





Mindfuck - A Bad Boy Romance With A Twist
Mind Games, Book 1












Gabi Moore











Contents



About the Author





Mindfuck



Blurb


1.
Prologue


2.
Chapter 1


3.
Chapter 2


4.
Chapter 3


5.
Chapter 4


6.
Chapter 5


7.
Chapter 6


8.
Chapter 7


9.
Chapter 8


10.
Chapter 9


11.
Chapter 10


12.
Chapter 11


13.
Chapter 12


14.
Chapter 13


15.
Chapter 14


16.
Chapter 15





Never Look Back




Heart Of Darkness




Wrecked & Yours




Manipulator of Elements  (Y/A Urban Fantasy)




Steamy Short Stories




MIND GAMES TRILOGY



Book 1 - Mindfuck


Book 2 - Mind Games


Book 3 - Mindgasm






BAD BOYS AFTER DARK - The Complete Boxed Set





Gabi's Naughty Newsletter



















Copyright




Copyright © 2017 by Gabi Moore. All rights reserved.
In no way is it legal to reproduce, duplicate, or transmit any part of this document in either electronic means or in printed format. Recording of this publication is strictly prohibited and any storage of this document is not allowed unless with written permission from the publisher. All rights reserved. Respective authors own all copyrights not held by the publisher.










          Created with Vellum


















About the Author




Hey there! I'm Gabi Moore and I'm on a mission to love like I've never been hurt, dance like nobody's watching, and write sex scenes like my mother didn't raise me right.
I write about some of the naughty things I've done, and some of the naughty things I still wish I could do. Some days, I forget which is which.
I like coffee and men with accents. And lately, I've been trying to give up dirty puns ...but it's hard.
So hard.

For naughty surprises and a freebie, join my
NAUGHTY NEWSLETTER!

- Gabi Moore



Join me on Facebook:




authorgabimoore

















Mindfuck



















Blurb





NORA:

The love story I'm about to tell you is the purest and most beautiful thing I've ever done.

But it all began in the darkest, ugliest way possible.

Forget what you know about power and domination. Yes, this is a story of submission, but real submission, where the stakes are real and the cost is high.

This is a story like all other good stories. It has good guys and bad guys, scary parts and naughty parts. And it has me, someone who thought they knew how the story would end, just like you think you do right now.

But when Dean Cane entered my life, everything changed...

I've done some kinky shit in my time, believe me, but nothing could have prepared me for that last taboo, that deepest humiliation, the pleasure I had long forbidden myself... love.

DEAN:

It was revenge that led me to her at first, I'll admit it.

I thought I had her pegged. I thought I knew what I was getting into. But I underestimated her.

I'm a powerful man. Getting others to bend to my will is second nature to me. But something about her made me want to tear away at all that and see what was hiding underneath.

But she had no idea who I could be, or how dark the truth really was...

Cutting myself off from the Cane empire? Incurring the wrath of some of the most powerful men in the country?

I could abandon her, let her take the fall and walk away from all of this. Or I could run with her now and do my best to protect her...
















Prologue




You think that people like me can't actually be real. You laugh nervously at the mention of my existence and quickly change the topic. That stuff's just for other people, living other lives, right?
But you're wrong.
I learned this lesson the hard way.
You know all those things you think don't apply to you? All those weirdos and perverts in the world doing shocking things you could never imagine yourself doing? Well, you're more like them than you know. Believe me.
The story I want to tell you is a story like all other good stories. It has good guys and bad guys, scary parts and naughty parts. And it has me, someone who thought they knew how the story would end, just like you think you do right now.
This is a story about nakedness.
As you read, I ask you to undress, with me. I'll go first, if you like, but you must trust me and do as I say.
Take everything off.
Take off your clothing and your shoes and your underwear. Strip down to what you are underneath human decency. Underneath all your assumptions and habits. Come down deep with me, don't be scared.
Do you feel uncomfortable?
Good.
Let's take off more.
I want you to peel off all your doubts, all your expectations. Forget about who you think you are and who you tell yourself I am. Let's be naked together - we can always come back to our costumes later, can't we?
Look at yourself now.
Look at your flesh, and the way it breathes and pulses with the waves of sensation that pass over it. It has memories and desires, this flesh, but try to forget those now. Isn't it interesting, how it swells and responds to touch? To pleasure? To pain? But let's not linger here. Your bare flesh is lovely but it's also a barrier to me, to our connecting, to all the dark and exquisite things I want to show you. Where we're going, you won't need your flesh. So take it off, too.
Our game is played deeper down still, underneath the flesh. Will you go there with me? Your bones and organs are not needed here either. I am interested in what lies underneath even that; I want to flirt a little with the being wrapped all the way at the very core. Do you remember that being?
I hope you have listened closely.
Have you taken it all off?
Look with me now, at what remains.
Can you see it? Can you feel how delicious it is, to behold this raw, hot seed at the very center of you? How delicate, how strange this little kernel. We can't stay here for long, but be brave. Hold on with me. Do you see it?
I see it.
I didn't used to, but now I do.
This is the story of how I learned to peel everything away. To be more naked than I had ever been before. If you're ready, if you can let go of your fear, then come with me now, and I'll show you exactly how it all happened...















Chapter 1




Myth: It's all about sex
Reality: It's all about control

Foreplay begins well before the client walks through my door. He only ever sees the end result: the perfect, total picture of everything he had until then only fantasized about.
It's overwhelming for many of them at first. They see their darkest, most disturbing fantasies come to life, and the squeaking PVC of her cat suit is more real than anything that's happened to him in years. Her scent is so intoxicating he can almost taste it at the back of his throat.
My clients pay a lot... because they get a lot.
I'm an artist, and the first brush strokes I lay down are some of the most important. I spend at least 30 minutes primping my outfit before anyone steps a foot into my dungeon. I wouldn't want a wayward eyebrow hair or a rough hangnail to destroy the illusion, would I?
Around two thirds of all the men I see are roughly identical: they all have the same haircuts, the same pale indents on their ring fingers, the same nervous hunger in their eyes. They pay me upwards of $700 for a half hour of my precious time, and for the mind-blowing thrill of being told what disappointing little scum they are, and how if it pleases me I might decide to allow them to lick my boot.
I'm not a prostitute. In fact, whatever the opposite of a prostitute is, that's what I am. I make my own rules, do as I please and earn obscene amounts of money in the process. I am a "Pro Domme" to use the lingo, but I'm more than that. For me, it's not much of an illusion at all. I've already played at being weak and helpless in this life, and I like my current game much, much more.
I spend hours getting dressed, grooming, painting my face. When I look on as men spill all those despicable desires that the world out there likes to pretend doesn't exist, I make sure I'm looking my absolute best.
For most people, my occupation seems cheap and dirty. A little alarming. But that only tells you about them, not me. And if anyone wanted to take any of it away from me, they'd have to claw it from my cold dead hands. I'm a connoisseur and a "dominatrix." I'm classy, refined, and demanding. But really, none of those labels matter at all.
What's really important is that I'm the one choosing those labels, and at every step, I am in perfect, complete control. Always.
In the upstairs bathroom, I take my time smoothing down my blunt-cut Cleopatra hair, admiring its blue-black shine and how perfectly cliché it looks against my plasticky red lips and pale skin. Thank God for clichés, though - they're what let me communicate with a client. And take his money.
I shift my ribcage a little in my corset and make sure all of me is squeezed, zipped and tied in tightly. With such gorgeous supporting tension all the way up my spine, my bare shoulders can rest easy on top, the shoulder blades pulled back into a practiced pose that tells men who they're dealing with before I've even spoken a word. I seldom wear black. My hair and sinister expression are dark enough. Wearing white PVC and leather makes me seem all the more frightening, and is somewhat cooler in the more unbearable California summer months.
I crack my knuckles; flash one last cold smile to the mirror and head into the bedroom to put on my heels - always the hardest part. Curling over crunches up the layers of leather and the steel corset boning and makes getting those stilettos on a real pain in the ass. But I remind myself to take my time. He can wait for me. In fact, I decide to let him get a really good look at the dungeon while he waits.
He's a new-ish client, but I know him inside out already. Early thirties, a finance sort with a bad gaming habit and more money than sense. He was tired of working. Tired of being a dog in a dog eat dog world, and most especially tired of all the quivering girlies who wanted an alpha male to make them feel like Cinderella.
He didn't want any of that. No, he had come to me for some discipline. For training. For a brief glimpse of what it might feel like to crumple to someone else's will for a change.
I told him if he behaved I'd take him on as a student, and if I felt like it, I'd give him a certificate to hand to any of his future mistresses who might like a boy who's already broken in. Oh, he liked that. I know his type, of course. Spoilt. Scared. I'd enjoy being the first woman to truly tell him no.
I made my way downstairs, heels snapping on the cool marble of my arcing staircase. My house was big. Maybe too big. But I liked having space between me and my little sex pigs. Even if it meant occasionally wobbling down three floors in six-inch heels.
I reached the basement, took one last breath of the air on this side of the dungeon door and took a step inside. I exhaled. Bolted the door. I made sure that no matter what, it always creaked and moaned on its hinges, and banged shut loudly, just so.
Like I said, I'm an artist.
The dungeon was large - twice the size of a regular bedroom and deliberately kept a few degrees colder than the outside world. If my clients wanted to descend into forbidden realms with me, I wanted it to feel completely real. A bare lightbulb hung from a wire on the ceiling and dimly illuminated the concrete floor, the instruments of torture, the chains, the ropes, and the steel frames over which I had strung countless writhing, grateful bodies.
My plaything had obeyed my instructions and was already sitting patiently on a stool, waiting for me, hooded, shirt removed, hands on his knees like a naughty schoolboy waiting to be caned. In a few moments, the whole sordid saga would begin.
Every client is vetted rigorously before we get to this point. I had already given him a thorough interview about each and every dirty little element that was about to unfold in this room now. But it's good practice to give them one last check-in anyway, before the masks are lowered and the game is officially on.
"Mr. Lewis. Shall we begin?" I said coolly. He didn't have to see me to know that I was standing before him; legs spread wide, arms on my hips.
"Yes, Mistress," he whispered.
Good. I kicked aside a coiled chain on the floor and watched as he jumped at the sound.
"Turn around, boy! I want to tie your hands."
When he swiveled on his chair and offered me his shaking hands, I could make out a thick, pulsing vein in his neck. I was going to be his first Domme. How sweet. I roughly tied his wrists, knotted the rope tight and tossed it to the side, before spinning him around again and yanking off the hood.
"You're not as muscular as my other toys," I said nonchalantly, and eyed him up and down. His eyes fixed on my patent leather heels and I could tell he was wrestling internally on whether to risk glancing up at me. Now, before we continue, I should tell you: this whole business has nothing to do with sex.
I paced a slow circle around him, rocking leisurely back and forward on my impossibly high heels. I glanced over at him again.
"Well? Are you just going to sit there and waste my time, boy?"
His eyes shot up to my face.
"I'm a busy woman. And I'm a greedy woman. I won't bother to train a fuck toy like yourself if I'm not convinced you're worth the time, you see? I'll--"
"Mistress, I'm ready to do anything for you and--"
In an instant I pulled back my arm and brought it down hard against his cheek, the slap against his face echoing in the dungeon. His eyes went wide. I cleared my throat and spoke carefully.
"Boy, you seem to misunderstand something. You are not to speak unless spoken to. You are here to please and amuse me, nothing more. If I have to remind you of this twice, the second time will be a lot more painful for you."
He swallowed so hard I swear I could almost hear it. Then he nodded vigorously, the skin on his cheek turning a mottled pink. My own hand stung from the slap. I started to pace again but he was frowning and shaking his head.
"Ok, pineapple" he said nervously. "Pineapple."
I raised my eyebrow at him. The safe word. Already?
"What is it?" I said. I crouched onto my haunches and looked him square in the eye, the Mistress Morgan mask lifted for a moment.
"I just ...are you sure about this? That seemed so hard and I really don't want you to hurt yourself. Is your hand OK? I just feel like...we've spent so much time making me comfortable here but what about you? Isn't this weird for you?"
I sighed.
"Mr. Lewis, I'm a professional. I have been doing this for years. You're in safe hands. And you don't have to worry about me, ever. I promise."
He didn't look convinced. It happened, sometimes. Social programming can run deep, I knew how it went. There was a savage deviant somewhere in Mr. Lewis, and I understood that he was squeamish about letting it out.
"I keep thinking, though, do you really want to be doing this? Not just with me but in general. Is this kind of thing ...I don't know, doesn't it bother you after a while?"
I smiled at him slowly. He probably had daughters close to my age, poor bastard.
"What about your emotions, you know? I was reading this article about how women get this surge of oxytocin after every sexual encounter, and it's this hormone that makes them feel emotionally bonded to that person..." here he looked imploringly at me.
I chuckled under my breath and gave him a wry smile.
"Mr. Lewis, I can assure you, my hormones will not be interrupting our session today."
He squirmed in his seat.
I was losing him.
Newbies were fun but needed a delicate touch. Some needed to be pushed, some teased, and I had to make that decision now, and hope for the best. I stood tall and cracked my neck, first one side then the other, then gave him a hard look.
"Can I tell you a secret, Mr. Lewis? I think what we're about to do here is much, much more of a risk to you." I pulled up a stool, sat down and dramatically crossed my legs, peering at him from behind my heavy black hair.
I had his attention.
"Let me tell you a story. Back in my old life, I remember being at a conference lunch with some businessmen, and we were all sitting at this big table, deep in conversation. I was the first to notice her - a beautiful young girl walking through the restaurant. Blonde. Gorgeous. Wearing next to nothing, you know the story. She waltzed through the place like she was on a catwalk. Anyway, I looked and then promptly forgot about her and carried on with my conversation. Except that everyone else at the table - all men - had turned to watch this woman walk by. Like synchronized swimmers, their heads turned, all at once. Now, I won't say the word was 'looked' because it was more than that. They gawked. They were hypnotized. All conversation stopped during those thirty seconds and everyone forgot what they were doing, or why. It was like nothing else mattered for them in that moment, except that pretty girl."
I uncrossed and re-crossed my legs, with a carefully, cultivated expression of aloofness on my face.
"You can imagine I was quite amused. I've seen some intriguing men in my life, Mr. Lewis, but I've never been so spellbound by one that I forgot myself like I saw those men forgetting themselves. And that's when I realized: it's men who are slaves to their biology, not women."
I exhaled loudly and made sure the breath lifted my breasts high in my tight corset. I made a mental note to punish him later for second-guessing me.
"You talk about hormones and emotions. Well, Mr. Lewis, let me tell you, when it comes to emotions, it's really men that I pity. They're at the mercy of their baser instincts, and can't help it. If you're worried, be worried for yourself. After all, it's your hormones that have led you to this dungeon, to be tied up and stripped down and who knows what else, by me, the weaker sex," I said and finished my story with a playful wink.
The look of relief and adoration that washed over his face was exactly what I was angling for. I could almost see his heart beating hard in his body.
"Now, Mr. Lewis, I'll ask you once more. Shall we begin?"
He swallowed again. Hands pulled back, his toned chest was on full display. His eyes were calm and focused, but by now I knew that to really read a man, you need to look lower down. A woman keeps her feelings in her eyes, but a man? Look for that tell-tale tension in the jaw, those fleshy ropes in the neck that hint at some delicious torment going on beneath. Naturally, the fact that his cock looked ready to rip through his trousers was another clue.
He nodded and hung his head slightly.
"Good. Like I said, I don't usually take on a plaything if he's as scrawny as you are, but on the upside, I won't feel too guilty when I eventually break you," I said and paced over to a steel tray laid out with whips, dildos and restraints. I wouldn't use even half of this today, but I didn't need to - the impact of him merely seeing them there was enough.
I ran luxurious fingers over each tool and settled on a long, thin leather riding crop. I loathed going to fetish stores to buy gear like this, so it's just as well that it turns out some of the best whips and crops come from actual equestrian stores. The woven leather handle felt firm and sane in my grip. I took some practice swings and sliced the air a few times, then raised a bored eyebrow as I examined the small tab of raw leather on the very end. Yes, it would do nicely. Soon this little flap of raw leather would go whistling through the air and bite brutally into my slave's naked flesh. He'd have to be properly naked first, though.
I extended my arm and used the tip of the crop to tap the belt loops of his trousers.
"Take these off," I barked.
He scrambled to his feet and clumsily worked to pull them off, but his hands were still tied and he struggled to pull down the cotton boxer shorts underneath. I stood tall and looked on like a cat watching a wounded mouse flail around. Eventually the trousers came off but the boxers remained. He was decently sized, and the rod of his swollen cock lay neatly across the top of his leg.
My file upstairs on Mr. Lewis listed, cock humiliation, worship, whipping, and org. denial in the activities box. There aren't many women in this world who can look at a strong, imposing figure like Mr. Lewis and know that all he really wants is to be laughed at and teased. But then, I'm not just any old woman.
I took two menacing steps towards him and nestled the tip of the crop into the waistband of his boxers, then pulled down, revealing a tightly coiled mass of hair at the base of a well-defined V on his abdomen.
"You dirty boy. Take this off. And for your sake I hope I like what I see."
It's hard to describe that particular facial expression. That gentle kink in the eyebrows, that sweet suggestion of pain, but with the lips still soft and adoring, the mouth a little open, the eyes glazed over the way one stares at fire, or a hallucination. What do you give the man who already has everything? You give him the one thing he never thought to pay for: agony. Surrender. Oblivion. The loving and brutal constraints of a relentless Domme can turn a man into a mystic, ready to ruin himself entirely for a moment of fleeting sweetness at the altar of her leather boot.
Twisting his bound arms to the side he managed to slide off his boxers and release a thick, purple-tipped cock that was as crude and angry looking as its owner was clean-cut. I curled my lips as I stared at it, then burst out laughing. Yes, even laughter can be an instrument of torture, if the part you want to torment lies in the softer, inner meat of your slave's psychology.
His face flushed a deep, excited shade of red. I marched over to him, pushed him so he collapsed backwards down onto his seat again and looked down with amusement at his cock, pointing straight up.
"That's it? You have the nerve to come here to my private chambers and bring this measly thing as tribute?"
I dragged the rough end of the leather strip slowly along his engorged shaft and smiled inwardly at how this seemed to stop his breathing.
I never touch them.
Ever.
Like I told you, it's not about sex. There is at all times a barrier of leather, PVC or even silk and brocade between me and my dirty boys. How could it be otherwise? I have sensitive, delicate skin, and I don't need their filthy bodies to irritate me any more than they're going to irritate me already.
Now, I know what you're thinking. These scenes don't exactly look like the skillful, beautiful transfer of pleasure, the movements don't seem like they belong to humans who are sane or healthy, and the words don't exactly make you think of romance. But that's exactly what it is. I used to scoff at all of this when I first started out, too. But I understand now. And understanding men is one of the sexiest things you can do for them.
The leather strip now at his tip, I flicked my wrist a little to bob his dick from side to side, like a vague threat. I tossed my hair out of my eyes and made sure he saw how unimpressed with him I was. What I most like about men is seeing them this naked. This vulnerable. Almost like weird crustaceans completely de-shelled, raw, exposed.
"Filthy little animal. You're turned on, aren't you? Disgusting," I say with a dark smile. "Your cock is an immense disappointment, and now you've gone and put me in a bad mood, you little cretin. Stand, and apologize at once."
He jumped to his feet, purple cock bouncing.
"I'm so sorry, Mistress, please forgive me, I'm sorry my cock doesn't please you."
With my riding crop placed on his shoulder, I press him down, down until he was kneeling before me, hands still firmly bound behind his back.
"That's enough! You can't even apologize properly, clearly. No matter. I might have considered fucking you if you weren't such a worthless little shit, but now I'll have to find another use for you."
I laughed as he tried unsuccessfully to stifle his whimper.
"I don't particularly want to torture you, boy, but you've brought it on yourself by having such a pathetic little excuse for a cock. On your knees," I said curtly.
He obeyed.
Towering over his crumpled form, I stepped closer and carefully placed the pointed toe of my boot against the base of his cock. It only took the slightest stroke and he was harder still, so hard it looked like he was already about to explode. The gesture itself wasn't important though. What counted was the threat coiled up inside it, all the potential violence, the cruel possibilities that came with pairing his most vulnerable part to my harshest. I watched as a shiver pulsed through him, and I watched as his eyes flickered back a little in his skull. He was close.
"Are you kidding me?" I scoffed. "Little pig, you misunderstand again. You don't get to come in here."
I caressed my boot over the tender end of this cock. You can see how easy it is to get carried away in the role when your slave is so willing to come at the thrill of merely being grazed by your boot.
"If you make a mess in my chambers, boy, I shall have to punish you. This isn't about you and your hopeless little prick. It's about me. Understood?"
"Yes, Mistress."
I continued stroking.
"I permit you to worship me now," I said.
I could tell it was difficult for him to think clearly, being so painfully on the brink of coming, but forbidden from that relief.
He thought for a moment.
"Mistress is very kind," he began. "I am not worthy of Mistress. I am not worthy to praise her, to say how beautiful she is..."
"Good" I said, placing my foot between his knees and making him spread them wider.
"I only want to serve Mistress," he whispered quietly, with that expression, you know the one I mean.
"That's enough, don't grovel," I said. "I know you're completely untrained and honestly, I don't believe you have what it takes to be one of my fuck toys. But I am kind, and I'll forgive you for having such a miserable little cock. Tell me, boy, do you know how to come when you're told?"
I watched the swollen flesh twitch and harden.
"Yes, Mistress," he said quietly.
I'll stop there, I guess. You don't need to know what I whipped him with exactly, or what I did to his poor, undeserving balls. You don't need to know that I had him hanging onto my every word so he knew exactly the moment he was allowed to finally squirt his little load, and then thank me for the privilege. Mr. Lewis's first lesson in ruination was quite exhausting for him, and I decided, reluctantly, to let him serve me at another date as a prospective trainee.
But you don't need to know about all the other horrible things Mr. Lewis gets off on. Perhaps what you really want to know is, why do I do this? What could the appeal possibly be, and do I enjoy any of it? Maybe you have questions. Maybe you have judgements. To most of them, I have a simple response: am I turned on by any of this? No, not really. But I like the power. Pleasure is not the same as power, I know, but it's infinitely easier to understand.
Maybe you're wondering, if I don't get off on this kind of thing, then what do I get off on? And to that I have another simple answer. You see, my 'orgasm' is well and truly delayed, in all cases. My thrill comes in the days and weeks afterwards, where I get to blow the money I make in these sessions on paying for a lifestyle more luxurious than you can imagine. My pleasures are more refined: I own property, and expensive cars, and dresses worth a month's earnings by the common sort of girl who would rather have a husband than an offshore investment portfolio.
I've tried to play at love before; at the rigged game they call 'relationships'. You could say that I was taken advantage of by men in the past, and now I get even by taking advantage of them, milking their lust and stupidity for my own gain. You could say I'm a wounded little bird hiding behind a mask of leather and steel, and I play at dominating men because I'm too scared to do anything else. You could say I'm twisted and sad and all the rest...
But I'm just not.
Take a good look because this is what it looks like, to live the dream. I do as I please, I make my own rules, and more importantly, I make more money than I know what to do with. The fact that I've never had an orgasm of my own has long stopped being a worry for me. In fact, it's a blessing. I'll leave all that weakness to my clients.
I finished up Mr. Lewis' session, saw him off and closed up the dungeon for the evening. Tomorrow was my off day, and I was glad to peel off the smothering corset dress and put on my ragged cotton pajamas and some old socks.
I went upstairs, removed my makeup, took a few deep breaths and helped myself to leftovers in the fridge. My clients like a bit of escapism, a bit of high-gloss fantasy. But their fantasy is my hard work, and my real treat is just to be 'ordinary'. I flopped onto the couch with my laptop and settled in for a night of mindless Internet surfing and YouTube makeup tutorials.
I am Mistress Morgan, professional Domme and proprietress of pain and all things dark and delightful. But I am also Nora Smith, a businesswoman, an introvert, a girl just like any other, on the couch, in her unremarkable pajamas.
I'm not a prostitute.
I offer a valuable service to some of the country's wealthiest, most powerful, and most complicated men. But in all things I have complete control and power. After all, who is more powerful, the wealthiest man in the country or the woman who can make him cream his pants with a flick of her riding crop?
What goes on in the dungeon is scripted and predictable. But the story I'm about to tell you is about what happens outside the dungeon.
I'm going to ask you again to forget what you think you know about how this story will unfold. Don't try guess where it will go, because you know nothing about me.
Nobody does.
And I like it that way.















Chapter 2




Myth: "Sex work" is immoral
Reality: Everyone has their price

I despise today's fashion trends - the baggy, loose fit gypsy dresses, the super casual fits of cheap fabrics in garish colors. I'd rather drop dead than wear anything described as 'slouchy'. I prefer old school. Tailored. On my off days I go shopping, and if it's form-fitting, classy and well made, I buy it.
Lord knows I've felt frail and puny in this life, but at least a small, defenseless body has its charms: it's hot, or so I'm told. My hips are slim, my belly tight. My feet always fit into the most expensive, narrowest Italian heels, and I have a neck that looks slender even after you knot a little silk scarf around it. I will never completely appeal to the kind of man that wants a flouncy, full, fluffy girl, but luckily, I've yet to meet a man that hasn't been willing to alter his tastes once he sees me in a thong and suspenders.
I was making my way down Rodeo Drive, a few designer shopping bags in my hands, when I realized I had skipped breakfast and was hungry. I lifted my sunglasses to peer around and settled on a cute looking bistro that I had always passed but never tried. A few people cast sidelong glances at me as I walked inside and found a seat, carefully placing myself and all my purchases down carefully. It was a beautiful, clear, easy California day and just the thing to make you forget about all the debauchery that happens just below the surface.
I scanned the menu.
Of course, in the past, I used to mind when people stared at me a little more than what I felt sure was normal. As though they could almost smell something deviant on me. Like I had forgotten to scrub off some dirty clue that told them I wasn't one of them, or my cover was blown because I stared a little too deeply into someone's eyes, or held my head just a little higher than any decent woman should.
I used to care, but now I take it as a compliment. What can I say, when you spend hours of every day acting like you're a literal sex goddess sent to earth to be worshipped and served by lowly men, it's hard not to get a little swagger in your hips when you're out of character and just at the gas station ...or sitting at a café ordering lunch.
"Ma'am, what I can get you?"
I placed the menu off to the side and caught the waiter's eye.
"I'll have the steak tartare, please, and some ice tea. Lemon."
He smiled shyly.
He knew I saw him.
And I did see him.
He had the face of a man begging to be told what to do, and how. I briefly pitied him all the girlfriends he'd have to go through before he finally realized that he could come and see someone like me instead, and get what he really wanted. But that wasn't any of my business - I wasn't working today.
"Oh, and a big glass of water please, no ice," I added, handed him the menu and flashed him a megawatt smile. He looked as though I've just given him an expensive birthday gift.
In fact, he was so bashful he completely ignored the woman at the next table who tried to catch his eye and wave him down. But he rushed off and I was left staring at her instead. Her hand was still frozen in the air mid-wave as her eye caught mine.
I saw her, too.
She was with her husband and toddler, and her poor posture and her tired crochet sweater and her mom hair. In that milliseconds-long glance, we understood one another.
The look on her face went a little sour, she realized she'd been ignored, and she also realized that I'd witnessed the whole thing. I could tell she'd already done a complete inventory of my face full of high quality, expertly applied makeup, my firm figure, and my white jeans that look as though they were painted directly onto my ass. Her child and husband were oblivious to this miniature drama unfolding at the table, and in a heartbeat she tore her eyes away from mine and went back to her life.
It's OK. I judged her right back.
She thinks there is something immoral about me, something brazen. She doesn't think people like me really exist. Not really. The women who are disgusted by the idea that I am selling my sexuality are only embarrassed because they didn't realize they could have asked a higher price for theirs. Trust me, I've done some dirty things behind closed doors, but I've never sunk so low as to wear a crochet sweater like that out in public.
I smiled and leaned back in my seat, feeling smug at how much juicier it was than even she could guess. What would she say if she knew that at that very moment there was a man caged in my basement waiting for me to release him? Old Ralph was a faithful and decent client, and not the first client I'd kept under literal lock and key. I briefly wondered if I should pick him up something while I was out, but then forgot about him and idly decided to shoot off a text message.
Nora: You in town? Feel like a coffee or something? I'm at that little bistro we always talk about but never go to, the one with the bicycles in the front.
The response from my old friend Melissa came back almost instantly.
Melissa: Good timing, I'm like a five-minute walk away. Sit tight I'm on my way.
I smiled.
Melissa was the only non-client who knew about my secret identity, and the only person I retained from my old professional network after I gave up my previous job and decided that torture by the hour was the better gig. Melissa was by far the most open-minded person I knew, which by now was more or less a requirement for knowing me. She was a respected psychotherapist, and we trained together back in the day. Even though her offices were just a few streets away from my, ahem, studio, we seldom found time to meet like this.
"Nora! It's been too damn long!"
I turned to see her come through the door and make a beeline for me. The crochet sweater mom was trying hard to hide the fact that she was looking at us. I got up, give Melissa a big hug and she sat and placed her order. She smiled broadly at me and looked down with amusement at my shopping bags.
Do you want to know what Melissa looked like? That's an easy one. Whatever first thought jumped into your mind when you thought 'psychotherapist', well, that's exactly what Melissa looked like. Kind, crinkled eyes, and a warm and comforting demeanor that made you feel like you were talking to your cool aunt, or a kind Classics professor who bought vegan shoes and made quilts. I loved Melissa.
"Engaging in a bit of the old retail therapy, huh?" she said.
"Has it really been so long, Melissa? See how I have to soothe myself when you're not around," I pouted and smiled.
We chatted easily and comfortably, like the old friends we were. Therapists have to stick together. What's that? You're surprised I used to be a therapist? Well, I wouldn't say that's the most surprising thing about me, but yes, I used to be like Melissa once. We chatted about her husband, her endless woes with her building renovations, about TV series and how quickly time went. Then, as I knew we would, we circled around and landed up talking about me.
"You know what I'm going to ask you next, right?" she said and took a sip of her coffee.
"Oh God, let me brace myself, I'm about to get therapized, aren't I?" I said playfully and grabbed the edge of the table. She smiled.
"Well, I am curious. Go on, are you...?"
"Yes. I am still."
"And is it...?"
"I'm good, Melissa. It's all good."
She gave me that look.
"I'm serious," I said.
She sighed and fidgeted with the sugar packets.
"That's it? I don't get any details?"
I laughed.
"I've tried to tell you details before and you're always freaked out."
"That's not true!"
"It is. What do you want me to say? I still beat business executives for fun and profit, yes. Still not a prostitute, no."
Her ears pricked at my use of the P-word. We had had a near argument once before, Melissa and I, when I tried to explain why I was finally trading in my therapist's license for leather thigh high boots and a whip. She hated that word. I didn't. Still, prostitution wasn't what I was doing. I didn't expect people to understand my motivations ...not even Melissa.
She flopped back in her seat, sighed loudly and began stroking out a lock of her hair in that way she always did when she was deep in thought.
"OK, there's no need to use that word. Anyway, you know you had me thinking a lot after our last conversation. But I have to admit I still don't get it. You said you're calling all the shots, that you have control..."
"That's right. I do have control."
"And you say you get to take charge..."
"That's right, I do as I please."
"But don't you only do that because someone's paying you to?" She stopped twirling her hair and caught my eye. "I mean, I don't want to get into a big philosophical argument, but it still seems to me that you're always doing what someone else wants, and at the end of the day they're always paying you for that. So, you're in charge... but only because you were paid to be, you know?"
When she saw I didn't have a response for her, she continued.
"It's like, you're still submissive to them, even though you play at being dominant."
It was my turn to flop back in my seat.
"But that's not the whole picture, Melissa. There are plenty of women who do this work and genuinely love it. Nobody's forcing them..."
"But are you one of those women?"
I sighed and stared at the mom at the next table, who I just knew was straining her ears to eavesdrop on our conversation.
"God, Melissa, now I remember why we haven't hung out for so long. Besides, it's not even about sex. It's about power."
"You need a shrink," she laughed, and I smiled warmly at her.
"A shrink? No thank you. I know how that sausage is made. And speaking of which, if you want to talk about prostitution, I was way more of a prostitute then than I am now."
I took a sip of my drink. The mom at the next table couldn't help casting us astonished glances as she dabbed up her kid's spilt ketchup from the tablecloth.
"Nora, you know I love you right? That I adore and support you in everything you do, right?"
"Naturally," I said and gave her a wink.
"Well, then I have to say, aren't you curious about what happens in the long term with all of this? Where does it all go?"
"What? Why do I have to have a big grand plan? Do you? I don't know where it goes. I adore you too, Melissa, but I'm getting bored of this same conversation, you know?"
"Ok, so let's have a different one then. Stop telling me you're fine and everything's under perfect control."
"Everything is fine. Everything is under control."
She laughed good-naturedly.
"Suit yourself, Nora, but seriously, I'm always here, ok? People like us should stick together."
"People like us?"
"Yeah, I think your methods are a bit weird, but at the end of the day you're still a therapist in my eyes," she said and smiled.
"Thanks, Mel. And at the end of the day you're still a prostitute in mine," I said breezily. She stopped laughing and raised her eyebrow at me.
"I told you, don't use that word, you know I hate it," she said with mock seriousness.
"Yes ma'am."
"What do think? I hope you're intimidated. Do you think I'd make a good dominatrix?"
I couldn't help but smile as she tried to pull her kind, soft face into a scowl - and failed miserably to be anything remotely intimidating.
"Nah, not even close," I said, just as the waiter came around with the bill and placed it gently on the table. Melissa stared down at it then up at me.
"Go on, pay for me, you lousy girl you, I command you," she said in her best dominatrix voice and crossed her arms. I laughed and reached for my purse, happy to pay the tab. We both giggled together as we walked out the restaurant, but as far I was concerned, I had gotten the last word. Melissa could say what she wanted, but at the end of the day I paid. And she let me. I made more in a month than she did in a year, and as for the mom next to us, she would never in her life know the financial freedom I did. They wanted moral superiority? Fine, they could have it.
I popped into a few more stores after I hugged Melissa goodbye but I wasn't quite in the mood for shopping anymore. It was getting late and I was feeling the pull to go home, alone, where I could enjoy my precious free time and do nothing at all. No appointments. No red lipstick. No schedule book, no client folders, no ceaseless parade of men with endless games of push and pull, all so different and yet all exactly the same. No, just me and my pajamas.
Let me take a moment to tell you about my home, OK? Melissa likes to say that houses are models of the psyche, you see. I know that you and I don't know each other very well, because I'm not about to share all my secrets with a stranger just yet, but I don't mind telling you about my home.
You already know about the dungeon. Custom built into the cold, compacted earth under the house, a room that's a part of that hidden second city that the perverse among us inhabit on a part-time basis. The house on top is light and clean, though. Elegantly empty. The hand-blown glass vase in my entrance hall was on the cover of a decorating magazine once, and I have silk flowers on my bedroom dresser that have gold and crystal stamens, and they were made by women artisans in Mongolia who've preserved the craft since before the Han dynasty.
Anyway, the room I spend most of my time in is the 'library', which is a shabby room away from the central part of the house and was never renovated. It's small, and the carpets smell a little. I'm not sure why, but I like it here the best. I read, nap, and while away hours online in this room, and I like to do it with the doors and windows closed. With a blanket.
I kicked off my shoes, dropped my shopping bags in the entrance hall and made my way immediately for this room. I passed the kitchen, grabbed a banana from the fruit bowl and padded over in bare feet to my little sanctuary. Then my phone pinged. I froze and momentarily considered ignoring it. What if it was Melissa? What if it was an important new client?
I sighed loudly and headed back to the hall to pull my phone from my bag. And then my heart sank.
It was him.
I stood there for a moment in my pristine white house, banana in one hand and phone in the other, and my good mood instantly shattered. He only wanted a session tomorrow, so why did I feel so upset? Tomorrow was an eternity away. I could still retreat to my special room, just like before. But somehow just seeing his name on my phone screen made me feel like he was right here with me, spoiling everything.
Fuck.
I replied with my own message.

Mistress finds your proposition acceptable. Don't be late.

And then, on second thoughts, I started typing again.

And for interrupting a perfectly pleasant afternoon, I hope you're not stupid enough to try and pitch up here tomorrow empty handed, pig.

I sighed, sent the message and watched as my words floated off into the ether and presumably landed out there, somewhere in his grubby hands. Melissa was right, of course, my life made no sense.
I flung my phone back into my bag and walked back to my den, determined to scrub the thought of this man from my mind and enjoy my afternoon off properly. But off course he followed me right in there.
Are you wondering who he is?
Well, you already know him.
That laptop you used this morning? That phone in your pocket? Yes, him. Entrepreneur, businessman, inventor, billionaire and tech revolutionary, the man behind the devices that the world runs on. Are you surprised I have such a high-profile client? I was too, until I understood why he picked me. He may have been a genius, one of the wealthiest men in the country and certainly the most influential ...but he was also a fucking pervert. I could handle him, of course. I just didn't like the idea of having to use my day off to prepare mentally for his bullshit.
I closed the door on my little room and flopped down onto the sofa, munching my banana angrily and burying underneath my favorite blanket.
Now, before you go ahead and make assumptions, let me explain that this guy is not the usual sort of client. Not at all. He has all the usual markers - he's older, slightly greying, a little intimidating - but that's just an illusion. I could never quite put my finger on why, but something about Jeff Cane always, always put me on edge.
Maybe it was the way he moved. It wasn't like a robot or machine, exactly, but more like a ...reptile. Like a snake, who freaks you out because even though your eyes can see one thing, your brain tells you that that kind of motion shouldn't be possible, that something weird is going on. Jeff Cane was like that. You weren't sure what was really happening behind the scenes, or what powered him. And that made him feel dangerous somehow.
I grabbed my sketchbook and began idly dragging a pencil over a fresh page, waiting for the random curves and arcs to suggest something to me and come to life as a coherent image. The graphite scratched quietly but all I could think about was him. I wrapped myself more tightly in the blanket and kept scratching.
I know what you're wondering, so to answer your question: he's into humiliation, lots of violence, exhibitionism. He pretends he's an innocent little boy and I pretend I'm an all-powerful, domineering older woman. Not his mother, of course, I spare him the embarrassment of ever pointing out the obvious, but him and I both know what the vibe is.
His name is 'pig' or sometimes just 'boy', and I punish him for each and every little tingly feeling he gets down there. Sometimes he'd get off on me forcing him at random hours to don some embarrassing piece of clothing or nothing at all, and then take a photo of himself in some public but quiet place and send me the photos as 'proof' that he'd completed his punishment.
Doesn't sound so bad, right?
Just wait, you'll see.
I looked down at the nest of dark grey scratches on my page and was irritated that I couldn't seem to pull out a shape from them. I tore the page off, crunched it into a ball and tossed it aside, then tried again. The same thing happened. I realized after my fourth failed attempt that Mr. Cane had taken over my off day and ruined it completely. You could even say, dominated it.
I threw the sketch pad aside and snuggled deeper into the sofa, deciding that I'd just have to nap to get away from the thought of him. Melissa - god damn her - was annoyingly right about everything. The most annoying thing about Melissa was how spot on she was about people, and she was spot on about me: I was still the one taking orders. And nobody drove home that point better than Mr. Cane.
I tossed off my blanket in a huff and decided that there was no point pretending I could relax, not now. I left my den and headed out again. I could go to the gym. Take a walk or go shopping again. I could even check on Ralph to see if he was still alive. Anything, really. Out there, it's easier to be the pulled-together, stinking rich uber-babe with the world in the palm of her hand. Better than moping around indoors stewing over nonsense.
But I want to tell you a secret, dear reader, one you can probably already see coming.
My life is a mess. It's all a lie. You know why I'm good at treating men badly? Because I mean it. Because I'm more messed up than they are.
When I first realized I could charge money for treating men like dogs, it almost seemed too good to be true. In the beginning, it seemed like a solution. I could turn the tables and be the hurter for once, I could get my own back.
That was the plan at least. I don't know when I started to lose it. But things never quite worked out that way.
Shall I tell you another secret?
The best place for a sad, sexually insecure girl to hide, the one place where she can truly be invisible ...is as a dominatrix. She can become a bossy seductress who makes all the rules before they can be used against her. When you zip up that uniform, you realize what powerful armor it is, and then you don't want to take it off again, even though your skin can't breathe under the rubber, and you're hot, and uncomfortable.
It's probably obvious to you that underneath it all I'm a timid, weak little thing. You'll have to take my word for it that everyone else out there buys the façade, except maybe Melissa. But you're still listening. You're still here, aren't you? I'm showing you all these ugly things now, so you'll really understand what happens next. I've told you the truth so far. Not pretty is it? Don't worry, I didn't like myself much back then either.
But keep reading.
You'll see.















Chapter 3




Myth: Submissive men are psychologically damaged
Reality: Everyone is damaged

Quick, I dare you: think of five men you know right now, off the top of your head. Yes, even him.
If I weren't already filthy rich I would bet you anything that of the men you're thinking of, at least one of them is a complete and utter deviant. And there are more Ralphs in the world than you would think.
When I first started out down this kinked path more than three years ago, I kept bracing myself, kept wondering, when are all the real creeps and perverts going to come crawling from out of the woodwork, asking to suck my toes?
The big surprise?
My client base was just ...normal. A representative sample of mankind, complete with fathers, husbands, brothers, bosses, employees. And yes, even him, the guy you'd least expect.
Mr. Cane was one of those.
I tell my clients, "god, you're boring me, who cares what your deep dark psychological problems are anyway? I don't give a damn about understanding men, they're only here to serve me." This is a clever little trick, you see, because it's a way of playing the game without actually playing it.
Sometimes I really mean it. Sometimes I don't. Sometimes I don't mean it at all and I wish someone would take the time to notice. In any case, you can see why Domme work is exhausting, right?
The doorbell chimed and I went to answer it. I made a mental note to make him pay for all the stress he caused me yesterday, when it was meant to be my day off. Not 'pay', but pay. Actual currency. He can afford it, after all.
I opened the door and stood there in the frame, looking at him like I was surprised to see him at all. He appreciated this, and lowered his head a little in a friendly and submissive gesture. Asshole.
"Mistress," he said, and took my hand to kiss it. I sneered at him and stepped aside so he could enter, then quietly closed the door behind him. At 56 years old, he was lean and in excellent shape, but that didn't stop him from wincing a little as he dropped carefully to one knee and extended his hand. I looked with interest to see him holding out a velvet ring box. I briefly wondered if he shopped for jewelry for his wife at the same store as he did for me.
I took the box from him and he slowly stood, head low and hands clasped in front of him. A chivalrous gentleman whose twisted mind and heart simply belonged in another era.
"Little pig, you've brought me a gift, have you?" I purred. Without bothering to open it, I walked over to a side cabinet where I made a show of cramming the box onto a shelf already bursting with similar jewelry boxes, making sure he got a good look at all the other gifts my suitors and admirers had given me. I slammed the door unceremoniously then paced back over to him.
"It's a pity, tough," I said, examining my fingernails. "I changed my mind anyway. You didn't have to bring a gift. I'll still keep it though."
He stood motionless, like a Zen monk quietly stirring himself into a trance. The last I read, the man before me was worth more than 12 billion dollars. But in my chambers, he was just another piece of meat, another weak, blubbering fool just begging for a smack. Or at least, that's what he paid me to tell him. Mr. Cane was my third ever client, and the one who had stayed with me the longest. Still, the game he liked to play never, ever changed. It was a game that we both knew well, and one that required me to dress in an over-the-top 50s frock, opera length gloves, peep toes heels and pearls.
I sighed, cracked my knuckles and walked off.
"Follow me, pig" I said, and he scuttled obediently behind me. "The front room is for nice people, not you. Come to the other room so I can get a better look at you. And don't you dare track mud onto my carpets," I hissed, and glared at his feet. He followed me into a room I reserved for all my clients who are more titillated by plush upholstery than by steel, and he stood attentively on the rich white carpet.
I looked him up and down.
"Have you been a good boy, little pig?" I said quietly. I was proud of how much restrained violence I could squeeze into those thin words. I should be able to by now, having said them so many times. For a moment, I could almost believe it myself. I could see how this 6'5" billionaire tycoon was, in fact, a 'boy' who had tried very hard to be good.
He nodded.
I stepped up close to him, grabbed his chin in my hands and yanked him so he was forced to stare straight into my eyes.
"Why don't I be the judge of that, hm?" I took a step back to peer at him from his feet to his head. Then I froze.
"Your shirt."
"Mistress...?"
"Oh, don't be so pathetic. Your fucking shirt is untucked," I said, my voice getting quieter but more vicious. I watched as his face turned red. I exhaled loudly and paced up and down the room.
"You're a slovenly little pig, that's what you are. But nevermind, if you want to learn the hard way, then you'll learn the hard way. Go and get your cane, pig," I said, as though just the thought of having to punish this worthless scrap was irksome enough.
Gingerly, he walked over to a wood paneled cabinet to the side, slowly undid the latch and took out a long, thin cane before closing the cabinet door again. In days gone by, I once brought down a world of suffering on him when he failed to treat my cabinet with the respect it deserved, and he well knew that I would beat him again if he so much as left a smeared fingerprint on anything I owned. He came over and handed the cane to me, palms held open, head hung low.
I snatched it from him, and gestured for him to turn around and assume the correct position. He did. Hands clasped in front of him, head hanging and eyes closed, he waited for me to deliver his punishment.
This was how it always went. I could almost do it all in my sleep. I cracked my knuckles again, spread my weight evenly over my feet and stood tall, readying myself.
"Your pants, boy," I said quietly, and he immediately unzipped and dropped them to his knees.
I took a deep breath, raised the cane in a high arc over my shoulder, then swiftly brought it slicing down again, the crack against his bare skin the only sound in the room. The rule was that he always got 'five of the best', but sometimes I'd make it six if he had been particularly bad.
This time, however, he broke the script and began to moan at the third strike. I froze, the cane held high above my head, my whole body twisted to make sure I was delivering as much force into those strikes as I could. I threw the cane aside so hard it clattered against the wall and fell clean behind one of the sofas. A good dominatrix, you see, must be flexible. She must notice these little things - a downturned corner of the mouth, a change in breath, a sheen of nervous sweat on her client's skin -and adjust the game where necessary. I could tell it was already time to kick things up a notch and move to the next part of the performance.
I grabbed him by the shoulder and spun him round to face me, keeping my fingernails dug in his flesh just slightly longer than was decent. I looked down at his raging erection, poking through the slit of his expensive shirt, and laughed softly.
"Just what the hell do you think you're doing? Disgusting. This kind of thing only happens to dirty boys, you know. And you know full well that I don't permit this kind of filth in my house. Well, what do you have to say for yourself?"
He was silent, and kept staring hard at the floor, his cock standing straight up, looking even guiltier than he did. A good dominatrix knows how to bring the best out of her clients, too.
I walked away and settled myself onto the sofa, taking my time to cross and re-cross my legs, giving him a quick hint of what I was wearing underneath. I knew that he only needed to see a half-inch of black lace under my dress and his desperate little imagination would make up all the rest.
"You've been thinking about me again, haven't you?"
"Yes, Mistress."
"I knew it. And tell me, pig, have they been naughty thoughts? Even though you know what the rule is?"
He stood silent again, his stiff cock the obvious answer to that question. I threw my weight back into the sofa and sighed loudly.
"If you were a good boy, you wouldn't do any of that dirty stuff, but since you insist on being so vile, you give me no choice. That nasty little thing between your legs keeps appearing, and there's only one way to get rid of it, isn't there? You may stand in the corner now and relieve yourself. Once you've jerked off, maybe you'll finally have some hope of behaving for once."
Like he always did at this part of the game, he shuffled over to the corner, trousers still bunched at his knees. There he stood, slightly hunched, and secretly began to jerk off.
I stood up and moved over to him silently, watching how only the muscles in his neck and shoulders gave away the furious movements happening away from my sight. I positioned myself behind him so I was mere inches away from his body, then breathed down his neck as I said, "there's a good boy, get all of that nasty stuff out..."
Act three of our game moved swiftly on from this moment: I switched over to the sweet and accepting mother-figure, praising my 'boy' for obeying me, for standing in the corner and disciplining himself and his shameful body. It's all in the tease though; I make sure he can still feel my breath on his neck as I tell him that he may only come when I give him permission. Then he comes, I humiliate him a little by making him clean up in front of me so I can be sure he hasn't missed a spot, then I make him promise he'll never have dirty thoughts about me again.
But just as I was sure we were on track, he switched things up again, changing the script. I nearly jumped back in surprise when he turned around to face me, full on. A million thoughts burst into my mind.
I was alone at home with a half-naked man and the only thing keeping me safe was the mutual agreement to play one kind of game and not the other. In a split second, I regained my composure, and took two careful steps back. A good dominatrix is flexible. Always in control and confident, never breaking her character for even a moment.
"Don't hide from me, pig. Let me see exactly what filthy things you're doing to yourself," I said, trying to think on my feet. But the moment the words left my mouth I was already sure they were the wrong ones. What good is it to command something that your subject has already done themselves?
Facing me, I watched as his thick fist worked quickly up and down his cock, but when I looked to his face his gaze caught mine. And I couldn't look away. He usually cowered. He never looked me in the eye.
My mouth felt dry and I couldn't think of anything to say. Twice he had broken the script and now I was floundering. All at once, he seemed like a different man entirely. I couldn't explain why, but he was no longer playing the timid schoolboy. His gaze was fierce and ...challenging.
He was daring me.
I stammered on my words as I realized that I didn't know what he wanted from me. I had been Mistress Morgan for more than three years and for the very first time, I faltered.
"You're a dirty boy," I whispered again, the words immediately turning stale on my lips. But the script was failing me now, too. "You're ...I'm going to..."
"Watch me!" he hissed, then smiled at my embarrassment. My face burnt hot. I had no idea what the fuck was happening, but it wasn't supposed to be happening. I was supposed to jump down his throat now, and threaten to whip him for speaking out of turn, for defying me... but all of that felt like flimsy words, like nothing at all compared to how hard and steely his gaze on me was.
He stroked harder and faster. I felt glued to the spot.
"Come closer," he breathed, still riveting me with his eyes.
Against all better judgment I did just that, and came to stand in front of him, the hem of my dress just grazing his shins.
"Now, I'm going to cum all over your pretty little dress and you're going to watch me," he said, so quietly I almost wondered if he'd spoken at all. My ears whined with the disbelief that this was really happening.
I watched, astonished, as the fat red knot of his cock pulsed in his fist and spat a few thick strings of white onto my dress. Jaw clenched, breathing deeply, he squeezed the remaining drops from the tip and reached forward to wipe his hand clean on me.
We locked eyes again. And in that moment, I could tell that he could tell that my façade had crumbled. It wasn't a game anymore. And it felt dangerous. Truly dirty, not just pretend dirty.
I swallowed hard and tried to think of what to do next. I wasn't angry that he had shot cum onto me. I wasn't angry that he broke the script and put me on the spot. No, I was angry because as he stared at me, he seemed to see it all. See too deeply. He wasn't meant to see that I was ...no, turned on is not the right word. I don't get aroused in sessions, ever. But whatever it was that I was feeling, I knew that he had seen me feeling it.
I gathered myself, tore my gaze from his, then drew back my hand to slap him hard, across the face.
"If you ever pull a stunt like that you are going to regret it for the rest of your life," I growled. He hung his head again. Good. Back to the game. The game was twisted and embarrassing and unwholesome ...but it was safe. I reached out, grabbed him by the ear and pulled him from the corner, forcing him to come staggering into the center of the room.
I reached behind the sofa to retrieve the cane and returned to him, unsure if I felt angry or scared. Or aroused. No. I couldn't possibly feel aroused.
"Bend over," I barked, and he complied instantly. I think I must have caned him forty or fifty times at least. I lost count after the first few, getting lost in the release of swinging my arm down onto his red flesh over and over again, watching the welts raise, turn red and split.
I usually discussed session plans with my clients at length before we tried anything new, but if he wanted to go impromptu, well, then, two could play at that game.
I caned him until the muscles in my shoulder started to ache. I was in a trance, one where only me, him and the cane existed, and I couldn't help but get carried away, my breath coming in jagged gasps. At last I couldn't lift the cane another time. I tossed it aside. He stood crouched before me, motionless. I had broken the skin, and for a moment the only thing that moved was a single, syrupy dribble of red from a line on his skin that I had whipped raw.
"I'm disgusted with you," I spat.
I was disgusted with myself.
And then, effortlessly, miraculously, he came to stand tall again. He carefully did up his trousers and buckled his belt; his expensive Italian tailored shirt slightly crumpled, but once tucked in, giving no indication of what had just happened. He flicked some lint of his cuffs and took his time looking at me again.
"Thank you, Mistress" he said with a smug smile.
I squeezed my hands into fists so he wouldn't see them shaking. The protocol was that we'd always do session 'after care'. We'd come out of the scene, put back on the masks of our regular lives, discuss anything that needed to be discussed and part ways on a good, calm note. But I didn't feel like following fucking protocol right now. I just wanted him out.
"You displease me, boy. But you've been punished enough for today. It's time for you to leave. Go before I change my mind."
His smile was small and delicate. Not the expression of a man who had just been brutally abused. I avoided eye contact. The session was done and I was not going to allow him to stare at me like that, ever again.
I walked towards the entrance hall and gestured for him to follow me. At the doorway he paused, straightened out his collar one more time and just stood there, waiting for me to release him. I took a deep breath.
"Open ended scenes like that one require a renegotiation of our agreement," I said calmly. He looked amused.
"Forgive me, Mistress, you seemed more than amenable at the time," he said with a smirk.
I glared at him.
"The scene is over, Mr. Cane. I'm drawing a boundary here. I'll be in touch to discuss our understanding. Naturally, the fees will need to be adjusted to reflect any changes." Here he actually laughed out loud. I had never seen this side of him before. Where was the tortured pervert who wanted to play schoolboy, the one I had known for three years?
I didn't like this. Not one bit.
"I'd really rather not discuss something so crass as money right now," he said sweetly.
"And yet, I'm a businesswoman, Mr. Cane, surely a man like you can appreciate that."
He chuckled again. I was beginning to seriously wish he'd vanish in a puff of smoke.
"You? A businesswoman? You're more like the product, though, aren't you?" he said, smiling and waiting to see if he'd get a rise out of me.
I was appalled. He had never spoken to me like this before. I reached out to open the door and frowned at him to leave. But he stood his ground, and tilted his head to look at me like he, too, was seeing me for the first time.
"What happened back there was very unexpected," he said slowly. "And very humiliating for me. Forgive me, but it seemed as though you were a little humiliated, too? And liked it?"
"Don't make me laugh," I blurted, and he smiled in surprise at the outburst, then shrugged and made for the door.
"You've given me a lot to think about, at the very least."
"Leave" I said coldly.
"I don't understand, I was only--"
"Nothing happens here unless I say so, do you understand? And now I say that you have to go, so you fucking go."
He stared at his shoes, hand on the door handle.
"You know, Nora, you're are not as in control of this as you think you are," he said simply, turned on his heel and left.
I stood staring at the closed door, mouth hanging open for the longest time.
When one hot, prickling tear found its way down my cheek, I quickly smeared it away and turned to walk back into the house, back to my little den. There I slammed myself in and tried to think.
Was I going crazy? Why was I feeling so upset? What had happened back there, really? Why had he turned around, and stared at me like that? I'm not as in control as I think - what's that even supposed to mean?
I was in a state, but the more I tried to pin down exactly what I was feeling, the madder I felt. I had hit him. Hard. But I felt like the one who had been slapped. He had broken the script, sure, but that in itself wasn't unusual. I had done dozens of scenes that were far more extreme than that one.
He was an asshole.
And he was wrong.
I was in control.















Chapter 4




Myth: Pro Dommes are just gold diggers in disguise
Reality: Who said anything about there being a disguise?

"Angelica has been a really, really good girl this morning, hasn't she?" I said and smiled warmly at Angelica, who I know has worn her favorite pink dress especially for the occasion, and then at Angelica's case worker, a homely social worker who's been caring for my sister for over a decade now.
My sister never got to meet our mom, but if Mrs. Maeve Williams, MSW PhD. and I had any say in the matter, we were going to make sure she never felt the lack.
I invited them both inside and watched as Angelica raced off to the kitchen to see if I'd bought her any treats. I always buy treats for our weekly visit, but I know she gets a kick out of finding out exactly which ones I've bought each time.
"How is she, Maeve?" I said as we walked slowly into the kitchen after her.
"Oh, she's great. Really great. Look, I've put her medication in here, and there's something she made in art class she'll want to show you later..." she said and pulled out a crumpled paper from a Spongebob Squarepants backpack and handed it to me. It was a picture of three people. Though Angelica was 32 years old, she still drew like a three-year-old, and drew herself as a three-year-old. She was bigger in the drawing than the other two figures, one of which was clearly Maeve.
"Who's this?" I asked, pointing to a brown scribble of a person with what looked like brown clouds ballooning from their head.
Maeve laughed.
"Can't you tell? It's you!"
I squinted at the picture.
"God, I look like an angry orangutan or something," I said, and returned the drawing to the backpack.
"Angelica's been learning about money today, haven't you, sweetheart? About how we pay the cashier at the grocery store when we buy food. Isn't that right?"
Angelica poked her head from behind the fridge door and grinned. I smiled and started to make us all some coffee while Maeve gave me the rundown of what they'd done in class and the outings they'd been on.
I smiled sadly at the thought of Angie learning about money. I paid a small fortune for her place on the only worthwhile residence program for Down Syndrome adults in our state. Did they really need to teach her how to break a five-dollar bill or draw cash from an ATM? The whole point of me busting my ass to provide for her was that she didn't have to stress herself about it.
Maeve eventually left. Angie started beaming and wiggling her fingers and I read her mind instantly.
"You wanna paint your nails today, honey?" I said and she smiled ear to ear. So we went upstairs and I decided that while she was busy, I'd quickly take a peek at my overflowing inbox and reply to a few emails. We went upstairs to my den and she reached up onto her tiptoes to pull down her 'special box' of things she was only allowed to do at her big/little sister's house. It was full of Barbie play-makeup, hair beads and unfinished friendship bracelets.
I curled up on the sofa and let her entertain herself with some glitter nail polish while I checked my mail. There was a time when Angie was bigger and smarter than me. Then, I grew up, learned to speak, went to school. We were equals for a while. Then I carried on growing, and Angie stayed where she was. Angie was always three years old. Me and the rest of the family aged and grew up around her, but with Angie, it was always like time travelling. Always like going back to the same innocent moment in 1987. We exchanged a smile, then she hunched back over at her life and I hunched over mine.

Dear Mistress Morgan,
Thank you for allowing me to contact you. I have combed through your website and would like to ask permission to serve you in the near future, at your discretion. I have had the pleasure of serving other Mistresses before but can sadly say I have never been properly brought to my limits. This is why I'm writing to you, Mistress. I desire a beautiful, demanding dominatrix who will permit me to worship her feet, serve as her slave and pet, and be punished and trained as you see fit. Discretion is very important for me, so I'd like to suggest a meeting where we can both discuss further details and hopefully come to a mutually pleasing agreement.
Respectfully,
G. Anderson

I read the email through once more, picked out a few telling phrases ('demanding' is always a giveaway, as is the use of the word 'discretion' - twice) then I closed it and made a note to make him wait a few days before I responded. I opened the next one.

Beautiful Mistress,
I am captivated by your charming smile and beautiful figure. Does Mistress long for the company of a sophisticated gentleman? If it pleases Mistress, I could offer a foot massage this coming Thursday, at our usual time. I know you work very hard and must want a little pampering, which I'm happy to provide.
Ever yours,
Byron

This one made me groan out loud. Can you tell the difference between this and the previous one? Just read both of them again, and see if the pit of your stomach doesn't feel a little more uneasy with the second.
Byron is a new-ish client, and one I'm figuring out how to drop. He's precisely the kind of man who profoundly misunderstands the Domme-sub relationship. The company of a 'sophisticated gentleman'? I don't require a gentleman, I require a slave.
Angie froze, pricked her ears and then looked at me.
"Mailman," she said. I nodded and gestured downstairs.
"Will you be a big girl and go and fetch the mail for me, baby?"
She dropped what she was doing and raced downstairs, then came back up a moment later with her arms full. I handed her the junk mail and fast food menus.
"Angie baby, have you had lunch? Have you got your wallet with you?" She nodded, then handed me a pink Velcro wallet from her pocket. It had two tens in it from the bank account they set up for her at the home.
"Good girl. Now look at the menu and see what we can buy for twenty dollars, OK? Remember, we can't get it if it's more than twenty, can we?"
She thought carefully about it and then shook her head. She went back to sit on the carpet and pore over the menus while I examined the mail she'd brought in.
Mostly bills and junk mail, but also a familiar pink envelope that I knew to look for once a month. I tore it open to find a blank check and smiled.
The day I discovered the existence of 'financial domination' was a very good day indeed. In fact, I had only met this particular client of mine once, and for the last six months he had been content for me to call him up occasionally to laugh at him and demand he buy me things and send me money. In addition, I was paid $1000 monthly, whether he managed to take my calls or not, and all I had to do was force him to take me shopping once in a while and refuse to give back his credit card until I'd bought everything my heart desired.
There were three separate, small parcels that were likely from admirers, but I quickly hid these away before Angie demanded to see what was inside them.
I curled back on the couch and carried on with the emails. I groaned at the next on the list: a newsletter I had stupidly signed up for back in the day and had never managed to unsubscribe from. I scrolled through. It was from the early days; back when I thought making connections in the 'scene' was a good idea. There were several successful Dommes in my area but I soon found myself at odds with all of them.
They always seemed to me too tacky, too obvious. Too much in-fighting and politics. My work got far easier the moment I stopped caring about the BDSM 'community', and besides, my clients loved that I seemed so mysterious, so unlike the other women who were out there hawking their services with embarrassing Wordpress websites.
I skimmed the feature article - titled A True Domme's Instrument of Choice is Always Her Heart - and scoffed. If you're not familiar with any of this, allow me to explain. The difference between a 'Pro' Domme and a 'lifestyle' Domme is that the former know what they're doing and the latter are angry about it. Ok, I'll be fair: the difference between the two is a bit like the difference between women who have sex for fun and women who have sex for money. The one side likes to pretend they have the moral ground, the other side wonders what morals have to do with anything.
Just like everything in life, there are professionals, and there are amateurs. And I'm the former. I don't go to 'munches' or play parties or care about leather families. I don't keep sex slaves for fun or wear garter belts to do my grocery shopping. This is my job, that's all. And I'm so good at that job because I don't allow myself to get involved. Ever. I'm in the Pro Domming business because it lets me get further away from messy emotions ...not closer to them.
I smile to myself and shut the newsletter, hitting the unsubscribe button. Again.
If some people want to crow on about how they're the only true and pure practitioners of a craft, they're welcome to, I don't care. I'm younger, prettier, more in shape and yes, more skilled at what I do than they are, and have the bank balance to prove it. Are professional chefs threatened by some granny's home cooking? Do opera singers need to maintain good relations with the karaoke community? Yawn. Are you bored yet? Because I am. You can see why I avoid this sort of thing.
"Nora! Nora!"
I lifted my gaze to see Angie waving a few bright pink fingernails at me. I smiled and nodded.
"That's beautiful, baby. You're such a pretty girl," I said and she carried on painting, her tongue poking out to the side in concentration. I opened yet another email.

Mistress,
I'm a faggy little sissy who wants to be dressed up as a little slut and--

I deleted this one instantly. That's not what I'm about, no way, no how. If you're the kind of man who thinks the ultimate humiliation is to pretend to be a woman for a while, you and I are not going to be friends.
Next.

Dear Mistress Morgan,
I have tried many times to write this email and keep getting stuck. Reaching out to someone like you is incredibly difficult, so I hope you'll forgive me if I get any of the lingo wrong etc.
I'm new to all of this. But for some time now I've had an intense curiosity and I'd like to explore some possible encounters with you. I am flexible time-wise but anxious to meet you as soon as you are available. I'd rather not put into words right now exactly what I'm looking for. My "kink" is quite complicated, but I'd appreciate the chance to meet and discuss it with you anyway.
Kind Regards,
D.

Interesting.
I read it again.
It was sent from some bogus Hotmail address. And yes, it was certainly unlike the kind of messages I was used to. My eyes focused on how the word kink had been placed in quotation marks. Now, I've always loved a nervous newbie, but there was something else about this letter that I couldn't put my finger on.
I replied quickly with a suggested date and time to meet, and chewed my lip in thought for a moment. My intuition about men is usually spot on, but with a message as hard to read as this one, I decided it was best not to keep him waiting.
I stared again at my inbox.
Nothing at all from him.
Bastard.
I looked over at Angie and again at my screen. I was sure yesterday that I never wanted to lay eyes on that man again, and yet now I was sitting here, wondering why he hadn't messaged me at all. No apology, nothing. I was still struggling to understand what had happened, but I was more and more sure that it was something he should be ashamed of.
Angie and I eventually ate pizza, watched some TV and later that afternoon Maeve came to pick her up again and I hugged them both goodbye.
Another irritating realization was dawning on me: Mr. Cane's direct monthly debit order had not come through this morning, as it should have. I tried to convince myself it was a coincidence, and nothing to worry about. A man like him must have countless things on his plate, and can certainly afford the few grand I take from him every month.
But the more I thought about it, the worse this line of reasoning became - if it was such a little thing, then why hadn't he done it? My clients never pay late. And the last person I'd expect it from was him. Now, not only had he humiliated me the night before, he was doing it all over again by putting me in a position that no serious dominatrix ever wants to be in: having to beg.
It was obvious. He was making a point. I wasn't sure what that point was, exactly, but it felt hostile. It was a strange, crooked little empire I had built for myself over the years, but it was mine, and I certainly didn't want someone like Mr. Cane undermining that.
I idly flipped through the TV stations for a while before getting bored and then got up and decided to have a long bath to try and soak his ugly memory out of my mind. I carried my phone to the bathroom and played around online for a few minutes as the bath filled up and my screen soon slicked over with steam. I threw in a generous glob of foam bath, dimmed the lights and tried to force myself to unwind a little as the white mounds of bubbles grew higher and higher.
I don't use this great big bathtub often, but when I do, I like to take my time with it. Stay in for as long as I can bear. Get really hot and sleepy and forget about everything for a while. I slowly lowered myself in, the hot water first a sting on my skin and then a delicious embrace, a big watery hug that warmed me right through.
I exhaled loudly.
It was all fine.
Not every client was as easy as Ralph, who was more or less becoming the weirdest tenant ever. It was inevitable, that I'd have a client one day that just wouldn't pan out well. I was a big girl; I could handle one or two sour encounters ...cost of doing business, right? I was good at what I did, and nobody could take that away from me. I sunk deeper in, till the bubbles brushed against my chin.
If you were so good at your job then why did you freak out so badly the other day?
I squeezed my eyes shut. I could think about all of that later. Now, it was just me and the bath, me and the hot, clean, empty water, completely colorless, moving around me with perfect ease.
Shall I tell you a secret, dear reader? I'm feeling calmer now and in the mood, and you won't tell anyone, probably. But here's the thing: the most scandalous fact about me is not that I make money doing the kind of sex work that people love to mock and criticize. It's not even that I have a disabled older sister who relies entirely on me for her well-being.
I let my head fall back heavily against the bathtub and surrendered to the weightlessness of my floating limbs in the water. My knees gently fell apart from each other and I didn't stop my hand when it made a trail from my hipbone down into the valley between my legs. I let it rest there, wondering if I wanted to continue. I knew where that path led.
My big secret?
I've never had an orgasm.
Not one.
Glad we've gotten that out of the way.
No, I'm not sure why, and yes I've tried, and no, it doesn't bother me anymore. Well, sometimes it does, but what can I do? Every once in a while I open this can of worms to see if I'm still broken, still missing that vital piece that all other women seem to be born with and not me. Now, don't feel sorry for me. I've done all the things they say you should do. But it just never happened for me. It's just as well that there's no 'significant other' in my life to make this into a significant problem, because as of now, I think I've given up.
Well, almost given up.
I gingerly slipped my fingers between the silky folds there and waited, like I was stalking a nervous animal and didn't want to startle it. But my body seemed to be cooperating for now. I drew breath slowly and steadily, finding that sweet spot that felt good to touch, and started swirling tiny circles over it, stroking it ever so gently and stirring that feeling up like I was spinning sugar, weaving with the faintest touch lest I break something or lose my concentration.
Being unable to orgasm is like having an important word on the tip of your tongue but never, ever being able to think of what it is. It's like an itch that isn't ever satisfied with scratching. You know that moment you watch a glass slip off the edge of a table and it comes falling to the ground, and there's that split second when you know the shattering is inevitable, and you see in slow motion the whole glass inching closer and closer and closer to the floor? Well, not being able to come is like being stuck in that moment, forever, and never having the relief of one big, fat smash.
Being in the bathtub made it easier, though. I got much further, when soaked in the warmth of a hot bath. As though it's easier to melt myself when I'm literally submerged in liquid. I stroked tenderly, chasing quivering little spots over and around my clit, watching the sensations dart away from me and disappear, only to reappear somewhere else, teasing me.
And all at once I thought of the email. That one. The "kink" one. Without trying, strange, frothy images bubbled up into my mind and I was too dozy to resist them. I saw a vision of myself, but I was different. No makeup. No costume. Just me. Naked. Very naked.
"Watch me," said a disembodied voice, and as I continued to stroke and tease I realized the voice is coming from Mr. Cane, fully clothed, standing far off on the horizon of my little fantasy world and giving me orders. My fingers paused and my eyebrows knotted. No, that's not right. Mr. Cane's image dissolved, but his voice remained. That too floated away, but it still left behind something... something...
"Fucking watch me. Do as I say," the voice said, all on its own. My eyes snapped open. Where the hell did that come from?
All I knew is that my fingertips were moving again, desperately, and this time I felt a velvety hot ribbon of my own wetness. The glass felt so close to the floor I was sure it would smash into a million pieces any moment now... I heard the voice again, but this time, even the words themselves had disappeared, leaving only the feeling behind them. I was being ordered. Commanded. Spoken to roughly, but firmly.
"Come for me," the voice said, and my hips tilted upwards to taste more of that sweetness from my fingers. "Come, Nora. Let me see you come," the voice whispered, and it was bossy and impatient and greedy and all I wanted to do was obey it, with every little twitching part of me...
Bzzzzzt.
I froze and took a moment to realize what was happening.
My phone was ringing.
I cursed under my breath, and sat up quickly in the sloshing water. I grabbed a towel to dry my hands and pick up to see who the hell could be calling me at a time like this. Then my skin washed over with goosebumps and I just knew: it was him. An unknown number, but I just felt it. Just knew.
I sat up straight. How the hell did he get this number? Mind reeling, my finger hovered to answer, but I couldn't think quickly enough. On the fourth ring, I knew I had to answer. Was this about his insultingly late payment?
I answered but said nothing, and waited to hear what he had to say for himself.
"Nora," came his voice on the other end of the phone. It was him. I was immediately turned off, my little thread of spun sugar a distant memory the moment he spoke my name - a name he didn't even have permission to use.
"This is a private number," I said curtly. I swear I could almost hear him smile.
"I know."
I recoiled at how confident his voice sounded. How dare he.
"How did you even get hold of this number? You know what the rules are. You're meant to email me first and then--"
"Hey, Nora, I called you, so sue me. I don't care about the rules."
"Oh, you don't? Well that's a relief, as long as you don't care about them. Look, what happened the other day was unacceptable and I've been thinking..."
"You've been thinking about me?"
My fingers tightened around the phone.
"Why did you call, Mr. Cane? Is there something I can help you with? If not, I think it's high time we reconsidered this relationship and went our separate ways," I said coolly.
It was something I had been mulling over for hours, but with him being this cocky, I was pretty sure it was the card I wanted to play. I waited for a response. When he spoke, he did so clearly and slowly, like he was explaining a very difficult concept to a child.
"Nora, I've been thinking about you too. I know it's easy for you to jump to the most extreme conclusion, but why don't you put aside the dominatrix act for a second and hear me out?"
"I'm sorry, dominatrix act?" I hissed. "I'm going to hang up now, Mr. Cane, and after I do--"
"See? Look how predictable that is. Do you really want to keep playing that game, Nora? Don't worry; I thought I did, too. But then I saw something ...in you. You made me want to try something else. To break the rules. I want to break the rules with you Nora. Again."
"I don't know what you're talking about, you and I haven't broken any rules. And frankly I don't form romantic relationships with clients."
"You flatter yourself. I'm not asking you for a romantic relationship," he blurted.
I exhaled loudly and realized I was beginning to feel too warm, too claustrophobic.
"Then what the hell are you asking for?" I said, voice hot with sarcasm. He waited a while before answering.
"The same thing you do. I want to change roles."
"What? I'm not a submissive, Mr. Cane. And I don't switch."
He laughed.
"Don't you? Either you're a total submissive or you're just not a very good at playing a dominatrix," he said mockingly.
"I've had enough," I said, and lifted myself out of the water again.
"I don't know what kind of mind games you think you're playing here but I'm tired of them already. I'm hanging up now."
He was still laughing.
"Alright, Nora, do what you like. It was worth a shot. If you're not who I took you for, that's fine, but I know what I saw the other day."
"I beat the living shit out of you, that's all that happened," I said.
"And even after that little performance you still couldn't quite hide it, could you?"
"Hide what?"
"You liked losing control. You liked it when I forced you to stand there and let me come all ove--"
"Ok, stop."
"Admit you liked it."
"I told you, I'm not a submissive, never will be."
"Then pretend. If it's all the same to you. That's what I want, Nora. Name your price."
I couldn't help but scoff.
"I'm not a prostitute, Mr. Cane. It doesn't work like that," I said, voice shaking. It was like I had slipped into some nightmare. "And you're harassing me. If you ever contact me again, I'm going straight to the Police, do you understand?"
He was silent for a moment, but when he spoke again his voice was so cold and sharp it felt like it could cut me.
"Nora, let's clear a few things up, shall we? I pay you, and you do as I say. You're not just a prostitute; you're a fucking whore. Are you kidding me? What else did you think was happening here?"
I was stunned. The world around me spun and crackled, like it does just before you faint.
"And if you break the non-disclosure portion of the contract you signed when you met me, my team of lawyers will have you and your family ruined by noon tomorrow."
My throat went dry. This had to be a joke. A mistake.
"I don't know what you want..."
"Shut up, Nora. I'll tell you what I want. The whips and chains spiel is getting old. I want to do something truly kinky. Something really out there."
"I'm sorry, I can't."
"Oh yes you can, and you will. I asked you nicely once, but now I'm telling you. I want to do something ...dangerous with you."
I gulped, trying to think of something to say.
"Something really dark. I want you to be scared, Nora. I want it to be a life or death kind of fear for you, I want to see you cry..."
My hands were shaking.
"No. That sounds crazy. I don't consent, I—"
His laugh cut me off.
"Your consent is irrelevant."
"I'm going to the Police," I said in a faint voice.
"Good. I've been meaning to call in a favor with the chief for ages now. Make you sure you cry when you go, ok?"
"You're crazy, I'm hanging up--"
"You're a common whore, Nora. And I'm paying. What's the problem? When you come around, which you will, we'll speak again. And now I'm hanging up," he said, and did just that.
My mouth hung open as I scrambled to find a retort, then realized he had cut the call and left me hanging. It took a while to realize how enraged I was. I sunk back down into the water; again feeling like I'd just had my whole world scrambled for the second time in as many days.
Fuck him.
I had no idea who the hell he thought he was but fuck him.
I was too shocked to break down into tears, too sad to scream out loud. My mind scrambled for something, anything. Then it found it: what if all my clients were just like Mr. Cane underneath? What if there was no such thing as a submissive man, only a man who wanted to try on submission, the same way trust fund kids take a gap year and try on being poor abroad, knowing full well they can go back to their rich lives any time they like? What if everything I thought was wrong?
A fucking whore. I had never felt so stupid, and so humiliated, in all my life.
The realization that Mr. Cane had never thought of me as in charge in any way was sickening. I had never let a man speak to me like he had just spoken to me. I never let people like him break the rules, and I certainly didn't let them make any. But it was as though he had found a weird thread in the whole fabric of who I was and was gleefully unravelling it. I had no defense.
Melissa had been right. As long as they pay me, I'm always the slave, no matter how you dress up the transaction. I felt like I wanted to puke. What did I want from him? An apology would mean nothing. And I didn't want his stupid money anymore - that would just reinforce his power over me. No, there was only one thing that would satisfy me now. I wanted to make him suffer.
For real.
Alone again in that silent, too-hot bath tub, my mind began to open up. Whatever slurs that asshole threw at me, one thing was certain, and that was that losing control was simply not an option. I would not be insulted. I would not be threatened. And most of all, I would not have some idiot tell me what I wanted and didn't want.
I would have to get revenge. I wasn't sure how yet. But it would happen. I wasn't the one that was supposed to be humiliated, he was. As I sat and thought, a scheme took shape in my mind. If he wanted to play this game, well, I had some lethal moves of my own.















Chapter 5




Myth: BDSM skirts a fine line with abuse
Reality: So?

I glanced around the coffee shop, looked down at my watch and then frowned.
At the last minute, the reporter had sent a message backing out of our meeting and turning down my asking price, suggesting another figure. A lower figure. He waited on purpose, just to string me along. The bastard.
Fingers trembling somewhat, I dialed his number and strained my ears to listen over the coffee shop bustle. As it rang a dozen thoughts whipped through my mind. Was I enjoying this? Perhaps I was more of a Domme than I thought. This was some next-level dominance that even I felt a little weird about. But he had it coming.
The reporter picked up.
"That figure is very low," I said immediately.
"Mistress Morgan? Yeah, it's not that low, honestly. A headline of this kind carries a lot of risk for us, you have to understand."
"Risk? What about the risks I'm taking?"
I hated his tone.
"Ma'am, I do understand, but that really is the standard fee we offer for a feature of the kind you want us to publish. You have to understand that when a source wants to conceal themselves like you do, it's a lot more work."
"More work? But all you have to do is keep me out of it."
"And we will. That's part of what we're offering you. So you see it's not just the fee. We want to be careful about how we go about it, and so should you."
I sighed and tapped a painted fingernail against my tea cup.
"Well, you can forgive me for not feeling particularly trusting - you're not exactly a reputable publication."
"Reputable? I'm sorry, but that's a little rich, coming from you, don't you think?" he snapped back.
That stung. But he was right, of course. It's hard to be the revenge-craving dominatrix in a story without looking like the bad guy.
"This man is the most powerful businessman in the country," I said calmly. "He's a zillionaire, a household name. He has a wife and children and a spotless public image. It's a big, juicy story I can give you, with photos. There's no question that your magazine will get record sales. The story deserves a higher figure than you're offering."
"No way."
"What I have is valuable."
"And we're willing to pay you for it," he said without skipping a beat.
I sighed loudly, tapped my fingernails a little more quickly and then smiled to myself.
"Ok, then I'll take it somewhere else."
"Wait," he blurted. "Let's meet in person and I'll ...see what I can do."
Bingo.
"In person? I can't see why," I said.
The funny thing about those people that start off in fight mode is how quickly they can come around to fuck mode.
"So that I can see you're legit. So I can take a look at these pictures. You'd be surprised how many dead-end stories like this we end up following for nothing. But if you're for real, we can talk."
I was silent.
"Deal? No promises, just a meeting. I mean, you're not going to get a better offer."
Dear reader, I have a piece of advice for you: never, ever listen to someone who wants to tell you that you're worth less than you think you are. A man who tells you that he's your only option is afraid of you exploring those options too closely.
"Fine," I said. "I expect to be compensated for my time, though."
"Holy shit, you mean ...like, pay for a session?" he laughed, just a little too loudly. But when I remained silent he stopped laughing.
I calmly told him a time and place, plus my fee for an hour, and then hung up. Men like him are a necessary evil in life, I suppose. I couldn't act surprised that a trashy tabloid magazine had some sleazy people in their ranks, but it irked me to deal with him all the same. The truth was I had already contacted several better newspapers and had been turned down by all of them. And though I could send what I had directly to his wife, that just didn't have the delicious flavor of justice that come with a big, public humiliation like the one I had planned.
I'd meet the reporter, talk up the price a little, and then when I was happy, I'd hand over my own personal dossier on Mr. Cane and all the utterly humiliating pictures I routinely had him pose in and send to me.
The reporter would have no problem seeing that the pics were taken in a public place, and could pass them off as something taken by one of the magazine's paparazzi. I'd deliberately gone with a magazine since even if Cane decided to sue; he'd only end up drawing more unwanted attention to himself. And the only thing worse than the world seeing you wearing hello kitty ears and a diaper in Mary Avenue dog park was getting into a legal mud-slinging match with a shady tabloid about it. If he wanted to come at me, I'd simply keep releasing more and more images.
It wasn't a foolproof plan, by far. But it was worth the risk if it worked. I finished my coffee, tried to gather myself and then left the café, a little ruffled but thankfully no longer feeling as emotional as I did the day before. I climbed into my blood red Audi R8 Coupe, kicked off my heels and sped down Newport coast Drive, bare feet on the gas pedal, letting the wind whip my hair up around me. I leaned back far in my seat, let one hand rest on the wheel and the other on the door, and smiled.
Yes, now I was feeling better.
I thought about getting Angelica a gift or going for a long hike somewhere, if I wasn't too tired later. I had one more client for the day, though.
Mr. 'kink'.
I had to admit that he had me a little excited. I like to think I've seen it all, but it was always fun to hear a request that was juicy enough to make its confessor blush.
I got home, checked the time and realized I'd have to get ready quickly in time for our first, introductory meeting. He'd tell me what was in his dark little heart, I'd listen and take it all to put in my folder, and then we'd plan our first play date.
The house was cool and refreshing after the heat of the drive over. In the same room where that ...thing happened with Mr. Cane, I tidied up, lit some candles and plumped the sofa cushions.
For first meetings like this, full, elaborate costuming isn't necessary, but you do still need to play the part. I opened my cabinet and flipped through a box of my favorite records, all classical music and opera. I selected the one that would get me in the right frame of mind, carefully placed it on the record player and daintily lifted and placed the needle. The strident sounds of Prokofiev's Dance of the Knights went booming through the house and I smiled with satisfaction.
Here's some more advice: if you ever need some help transforming yourself into an uber-confident, fearless super bitch who has enough chutzpah to command the known universe to its knees, then apply red lipstick in the mirror while listening to the opening of this piece. Works every time.
For my meeting with the new guy I chose a long, narrow white sheath dress, something that Nefertiti herself would wear if she were sluttier. It reached the floor but hugged low and close around my bust, giving a deliberate peek of the side curve of each breast.
I added a simple gold cuff round my upper arm, double checked my mascara and spritzed my cleavage twice from my bottle of Oud Cuir D'Arabie, because it smells exactly like hot leather. I was still a little nervy, still not feeling one hundred percent myself, but even on an off day I was certain no newbie would be able to detect it.
I finished up and went to lift the needle off the record just as I heard the doorbell. Head held high, I glided over in my heels and went to open the door.
But wait.
Before I go on, I have to tell you something.
Have you ever had something happen to you, or met someone, or done something that changed your life so much that you can barely even remember who you were before that? Have you ever had such a game changer fall into your lap that even your ability to remember your old life disappears?
I don't want to give anything away here; I promised you an unexpected story, and you'll get one, but I can't resist telling you that this moment, the moment when I opened the door, that was the moment my life hinged on, swiveled and spun round in a completely different direction than I had ever anticipated.
At the time, I suspected something, but I had no idea, really. Look back at your life now and the things that made the biggest difference to the story of your life, and tell me - didn't they kind of sneak up on you, in a way?
In any case, let's get back to it.
I was beautiful, self-assured, wealthy. I gathered I've explained that much to you. I was also a big, horrible asshole. You may have also come to that conclusion yourself. But take a good look at me right now, because after this point, things start to slowly shift. I never got any warning, but I'm warning you.
I opened the door, and it was a man. It's always a man, isn't it? I smiled and stepped back to wave him in. He nodded shyly and stepped inside.
He was tall, well-built, broad shouldered, but he had the most wonderfully gentle face. Full, sensual lips, a little stubble, and eyes that went deep, deep, deep, a kind of murky green-blue color that was light but intense all at once. It's not that he was handsome, exactly. He certainly wasn't a model. He just looked ...real. Raw somehow. Like to merely look at his face you knew what you needed to about him.
He followed me into the prepared room, and I made extra sure to waggle my backside a little, for his benefit. I gestured for him to sit, and he sat. I could already tell he was wealthy - that was good. But he wasn't giving me many other clues.
I smiled sweetly, laced my fingers over the knee of my crossed leg and looked at him.
"Well then, welcome. Something to drink?" I said and glanced at the trolley of crystal bottles behind me, each filled with a different yellow-hued liquid. He blushed and shook his head.
"No, thank you. Um, this is quite awkward for me, actually. I'm not sure of the ...procedure here."
God, he was cute.
I grinned and nodded.
"I understand. Many people think that on the first meeting, I'll be breaking out the whips and chains and they'll have no say in what unfolds, but that's not what happens."
"It's not?" he said, and the tiny way he lifted the corner of his mouth matched the tiny way he lifted his one eyebrow. I laughed.
"Unfortunately, no. This is your first ever time with a Domme?"
"It is."
"Well, what's important is that for every scene, or fantasy, or game that we play, there are rules. We decide the rules upfront, so that we don't have to worry about them later on, when we'd bother rather just enjoy what's happening. We decide on a safe word that halts all play, no matter what. I can go far. Very far. But I won't push you further than I know you can handle. What happens between us stays with us. You've already signed the contract I sent you, but the more important thing is that we connect here, on a mental level," I said, and drew and imaginary line linking his forehead with mine.
He was nodding, eyes glued to mine, hanging on to every word. He smelt good. Even from way over there on his sofa, I could smell him, and it was all skin and powder and musk.
"Why don't you tell me a little about you?" I said. "About what you want and like?"
It was awkward for me sometimes, too, these little interviews, where I didn't have my regular bad bitch toolkit to fall back on and had to actually be a civilized, polite young woman.
But this guy made it almost feel fun. I found myself genuinely curious about his answer. Did he want me to strap him down and give him a naughty medical exam? Throw him in a dog cage? Play at being a sexy female interrogation officer who tortured him sexually in a dark room till he confessed his juicy state security secrets? In case you're wondering, no, I didn't make that up - in my line of work, there is no such thing as political correctness.
He shifted his weight, looked at the ground and sighed.
"Like I said, it's complicated, and I don't want to just jump into something. I really just needed to meet you first. If that's alright..."
"Of course it's alright! But I should remind you that I'm not a shrink, and don't intend to keep boys around just to chat with them about their days," I said playfully, and the look he gave me was so shocked I couldn't help but giggle. "I'm kidding, of course. Mostly. But if you're feeling shy, you really don't need to be."
He looked like something was on the tip of his tongue, but he was afraid to spit it out. Fine. Not everyone can be as brazen as I am.
"Um, by the way, I didn't catch your name..."
"It's Dean."
"Dean. Well, Dean, let's try something quickly, and you tell me whether you enjoy it or not, OK?"
"You mean, right now?" again he flashed me that same shocked look.
I smiled.
"Yes, right now. Don't worry, I don't bite," I said, giving him a little wink. I cracked my neck first one side, then the other, then cleared my throat. "Come here," I said coldly, changing my entire demeanor. His eyes were wide as he contemplated this order, but he was soon on his feet and standing in front of me, hands hanging awkwardly at his side.
"Get down on your hands and knees. My feet are tired," I said casually. It took a while for him to catch my drift, but he dropped to his hands and feet before me, offering his back up as a footrest. I plonked my heels down onto him and adjusted my weight.
"You know what I really need in my life, Dean?" I said, adding a little sarcasm to his name. "I'm tired of idiot men who can't keep up with me. What I really want is someone I can break. Completely. Till they're shaking and weeping and ready to sacrifice their lives and bodies for me." Then I kicked my feet off, reached down, took his chin in my hand and looked at him...
"Yes? No?" I said in my normal voice.
He blushed.
"Uh... I think no," he said. I gestured for him to stand up. That was unusual. I raised an eyebrow at him. I was happy to do admin and small talk with a new client, but the sooner I could get back to the easy stuff, the better.
"No?"
"No. That's just... that feels a bit mean actually."
I didn't know whether to laugh or not. I sat back down again, and so did he. I was losing my touch, clearly, and had read him completely wrong.
"Mean?" I said. "Honey you know who you've come to see, right?" I said, smiling warmly. He laughed, put his hand to the back of his neck and shrugged.
"I told you, I don't... I don't really need that kind of thing. To be yelled at or spoken down to, that's not really my thing at all," he said, slowly and almost as though he was worried about offending me.
"Then...?"
He sighed and looked uncomfortable.
"Yeah, I know, then what do I want, right? Um. Fuck, I was worried this was going to be strange..."
"No, not strange. Just talk to me," I blurted.
I wasn't usually this kind. If some joker came in here just to mess around or push his luck, I would have thrown him out ten minutes ago. But something about this sweet stranger's smile was truly endearing. Like I said, looking back I know why, but then I was clueless. I just knew I didn't want him to leave, that's all.
"Would you like to have a look at my dungeon, perhaps?" I said confidently. It's easier for many people to show rather than tell. If he was so infuriatingly bashful, surely he could point out what he was after and spare me the guessing game. But he was shaking his head again.
"No dungeon. I won't be requiring... instruments. Are they called instruments? Tools I mean. Or devices? Jesus, I'm messing this up aren't I?"
"A little."
He laughed, but was soon on his feet.
"I think I'm done actually. I'll be leaving now."
I was genuinely surprised.
"Leaving? But why?"
"Like I said, what I want here will take some time to explain. I guess I just needed to come here and, I don't know, see that you were for real. And I'll admit that I'm glad you haven't made a big deal about who I am," he said.
"I'm sorry... who you are?"
I was standing now, too. He gave me a quizzical expression.
"Wait, do you even recognize me?" he said, the juiciest smile on his face. I didn't. I had no idea who he was and he had spent less than 15 minutes in my living room. He chuckled and shook his head.
"Dean Cane," he said, and waited for my response.
My thoughts galloped.
Dean Cane?
Son of...?
It couldn't be.
I looked at him more closely. He was right. I had seen his face around before. Yep, there he was, heir to the empire. I tried to think quickly. Did he have any idea that his father knew me? I had to play dumb. Despite everything I told you earlier on about that reporter and wanting to expose that bastard, I still take client confidentiality very seriously.
"I'm sorry, I ...I'm afraid I don't recognize the name," I said sweetly and shrugged. He looked long and hard at me, then nodded, and made for the door.
"That's just as well," he said quietly.
"But wait. We still have a whole hour together," I said. I was surprised at how eager I sounded. That was definitely unlike me. Then he did something outrageous and placed his hand on my shoulder, just gently, just so. It was a gesture done with such care and tenderness that it nearly blew my mind. Clients didn't touch me like that. I touched them. And then, usually, it was not so much touch as ...hit. And slap. And whip.
I stared down at his hand and tried to think of something to say.
"I just mean, was there really nothing else you wanted?" I said, trying to appear aloof again and failing miserably. He removed his hand, smiled and then shook his head.
"Actually, you've already kind of given it to me," he said.
I followed him as he walked back to the front door. His suit was expensive. His shoes were unnervingly clean. And he was the son of my most high-profile client. Or, ex client, I should say. Did somebody send him here? Was this some twisted 'mind game' that Mr. Cane was playing with me? No, it couldn't be. What were the chances? We'd done nothing but exchange a few words and he was satisfied? Bizarre. We walked back to the front door but he stopped and looked at one of the paintings lining the hall. Nobody ever stopped to look at them.
"These are... nice," he said. "Who's the artist?"
For some stupid reason, I shrugged. I was the artist. Every abstract, colored swirl on these walls was my doing, and he was the first man to say a word about them.
"They make me think of something, but I'm not sure what," he said, examining a few more of them, tilting his head to admire the chaotic swirls of color spiraling into the centre of the canvas. My face felt hot.
"I'd like another hour sometime soon, if you're available," he said when we both reached the door. "I realize I'm being very mysterious about it all, but I hope you can understand that this is important to me, and I want to do it properly. I appreciate your time. I'm very happy with our meeting and I'm sure that you'll be just the right person to disclose the details to ...when the time comes."
Just how taboo could this big secret of his really be? Maybe he was some kind of pedophile. Maybe it was animals. I looked down at the perfectly tailored hems of his suit jacket, then at his clean-shaven, honest face. He certainly didn't look like a bad guy serial killer type. (Are you curious as well, dear reader? In case you are as desperate as I was to figure this Mr. Dean Cane out, just forget it: you'll never guess.)
I said goodbye, closed the door behind him and tried to catch my leaping thoughts.
I was intrigued.
Of course I was. What kind of a man pays $1400 to talk to a woman for 15 minutes? I walked slowly back to the living room and sat down in front of the scented candles, the flame in each one barely having made even the smallest dent in the thick white wax. It was probably nothing. Just a conflicted 'fraidy cat who was having a hard time admitting to having a pretty tame kink. He was too sweet. Too polite.
I blew out the candles.
I usually didn't bother with people who were this closeted - when men are already so tortured, it takes the fun out of torturing them, you know? - but this guy seemed so harmless I couldn't resist. It was obvious he'd pay up, and that fact hadn't escaped me. And as for being the son of the man I was currently trying to destroy? Well, that may not be a problem at all. In fact, if I got in the good books of this meek, innocent Dean creature, who knows all the other 'complicated' things he might tell me.















Chapter 6




Myth: In BDSM, people are attracted to the role most different from the one they play in normal life
Reality: BDSM is not a reverse of the normal, it's an amplification

I woke up feeling strange.
Two mascara smears blinked back at me from my pillow, and I had a vague sense of having had nightmares all night, but couldn't remember any of them. Groggy, I crawled out of bed and checked my phone. I examined my face in the bathroom mirror. My hair looked less like a chic Cleopatra bob and more like a Barbie doll after a toddler's taken the kitchen scissors to her. I looked ragged.
It was Saturday, which meant I had morning clients and then Angie would come over in the afternoon to stay the weekend. My website had lurid details about how I spent my free time - I painted myself as a mysterious, in-demand socialite who was all non-stop bacchanals and international shopping sprees. The funny truth was that I had no real friends to speak of, and my free time was usually shared with my last remaining family member - Angie.
I slinked downstairs to make myself a bowl of cereal and then went further down to the dungeon, still in my pajamas, mascara smears and knotty hair. I kicked the door a few times.
"Avert your eyes, slave!" I shouted, then pressed open the heavy door and stepped inside. Ralph had obediently turned and now had his back to me, hunched in his cage, naked. Chatting to Ralph like this wasn't in our original agreement, but fuck it, I was the boss here. Plus, I had nobody else to talk to.
I took a spoonful of my cereal and chewed thoughtfully.
"Slave, answer me a question," I said at last.
"Anything for Mistress," he said instantly, his voice hoarse.
Good old Ralph. Retired, loaded, and with more issues than all my other clients combined. I was pretty sure we routinely broke state health and safety laws fulfilling these little fantasies, but it worked, and if he minded these chatty interludes in the middle of his regular incarcerations, he never said so. In fact, many times Ralph seemed like the most sane person I knew, and was happy to listen. He was chained in a cage, sure. But he listened.
"Tell me, what does it actually mean to submit?" I asked and took another spoonful.
"Mistress knows," he said simply. "Slave doesn't understand these things; he trusts Mistress to know what he needs."
"So, it's about your needs, then? Does 'submit' just mean sit back and let someone else take care of it all?"
He was silent.
"Mistress is displeased?"
"Damn straight Mistress is displeased. Mistress wants to burn everything to the ground and run away and never come back. What do you think of that?" I said, leaning against the concrete wall and staring at his naked back.
"That would make slave very sad."
I sighed, put the bowl to my lips to slurp up the milk, then placed it with a clink on the surgical table.
"Mistress is ...having breakfast?" he asked tentatively.
"Mistress is drinking the blood of her enemies," I said, and shifted my weight.
He was silent again.
"Actually, Mistress is in some trouble," I said. I watched the bones along his spine expand and close again as he took a deep breath.
"Mistress will find a way," he said at last.
"Hey Ralph?"
Silence.
"Yes, Nora?"
"Do you think of me as a... a whore? A prostitute?" Again I watched the skin on his back as he inhaled and exhaled.
"I think of you as an artist."
"Shut up, slave," I hissed.
"Yes, Mistress."
"You're staying in here another hour if you think you can get away with not addressing me properly."
"Of course."
I turned to leave but just as I was about to close the door, I paused and looked over at him again. It's easy to laugh at a man like Ralph. Or pity him. I'll admit, I don't much understand what makes him tick either.
"Hey Ralph... thank you."
"Thank you," he replied, and I went back upstairs.
By the time I found the energy to shower and dress, and sit down to look at the day's schedule. I was decided. I wanted to cancel all my morning appointments. I didn't do it often, but I just knew my heart wouldn't be in it anyway. I had three clients, excluding releasing Ralph from his cage in an hour, and then Angie would come over.
I cracked my knuckles and began to type when I noticed: one of my appointments this morning was with that Dean guy, him of the squeaky-clean shoes and 'complicated kink'. Hmm. The other two I could ditch, but on a whim I decided I still wanted to see him. He was scheduled to be the last of the day, just before Angie came over, and I admit, I was still pretty curious.
I poured myself another cup of coffee and went to check the mail, then scowled at what I saw in my driveway. A new car with a giant red bow on the top. Ugh. I walked outside to examine it, peeled off the note stuck in the wiper and saw that it was from Mr. Cane.
How tacky.
I tossed the card aside, took a sip of coffee and looked at it. I would sell it, just like I sold every one of his other stupid gifts. He didn't get to say what he said to me and then simply apologize. For a man like him, buying an expensive car is nothing at all ...but I sure could think of a few charities who wouldn't mind the money.
I waltzed back inside and called up the dealership I usually work with whenever I have gifted cars to sell. While I was on hold, I took a look through my closet to find the perfect outfit for my session with the other Mr. Cane, the one who I was currently finding a little more intriguing, and a little less predictable. I would meet the reporter tomorrow to drive up the price but in the meantime, sussing out his son might be fun. If you're wondering whether I maybe secretly possibly liked him a little bit, well, yes, I admit it. He was an attractive man, of course I was interested. But it's no exaggeration to say that I don't even remember the last time I had a crush on anyone, so don't think I was into him in the least. I just found him less loathsome than some of my other clients, that's all.
As I chatted on the phone I pulled out a skin-tight white PVC dress with sharp sci-fi looking sleeves and a cutout diamond right at the chest. Yes, that would go nicely with a little flecked fur capelet I had just bought and my new favorite earrings: tiny silver swords that hung straight down as though they'd pierce my collarbone.
I ended the call, took my time getting dressed, let Ralph loose and then organized the folder drawers in the upstairs office for a few hours. Before I knew it, the doorbell rang.
He was here.
I took a deep breath, then went to answer, all the nightmares from the night before flat-ironed out of my hair and my lips gleaming with fresh purple gloss. I opened the door, and tried to hide the fact that my heart was skipping beats. I couldn't even make him out behind the wall of flowers. He handed me a giant bouquet of white roses, stepped inside and closed the door himself.
"Flowers are not on my wish list, I'm afraid," I said, placing the vase on a side table and getting a good look at him.
"Where's the fun in a gift if you already know what you're going to get though, right?" he said with a smile.
Flowers were the most clichéd gift for a woman in the history of anything. And yet, they were a pleasant surprise. Had I actually ever received flowers from anyone? Cars, sure. Expensive jewelry, wine, shoes. But never flowers. We both walked into the main house, and I gestured for him to sit on the same seat he had sat before.
I smiled, waiting for him to compliment me, to rush in and start talking about how he hoped I wouldn't judge him for the thing he was about to ask me to do to him.
But he didn't.
"Do you ever ...you know, do you ever find this whole thing a little weird?" he said. He looked so much more charming today than he did the time before. I wasn't sure what it was but he seemed a little sparklier, a little more mischievous.
"Oh, it's constantly weird," I said, returning his smile. "I guess I just have a high threshold for weirdness, that's all."
"Oh yeah? What's the weirdest thing you've done with a client, then?" he said. I lifted my eyebrow at him.
"You know the thing you're avoiding telling me right now? Your big dark secret that you're stalling on sharing with me? Well, how would you feel if I shared that secret with my other clients, hm?"
"Fair point."
He was handsome. It's just that it was an unexpected kind of handsome. He wasn't my type at all. He had light hair, green eyes... and I couldn't for the life of me guess what was wrong with him that he had sought me out. But I liked that he was here anyway, and that he was talking to me. A part of me didn't want him to leave as abruptly as the time he did before.
I got up slowly, and made a point of fixing myself a drink, clinking the crystal bottles like I had all the time in the world. The whole scene felt like it came straight from a Bond movie, but I knew that if you only did it with confidence, you could pull off any outrageous thing you liked.
"Drink?"
"No, thank you."
I sat down again.
"Speaking of weird things, are you ready to spill the beans, yet?" I said playfully, and took a sip without breaking eye contact. He gave a flirty smile and shook his head.
"Not quite yet. I'm still ...figuring out the rules."
"The rules? My goodness, you make it sound so serious."
"It is serious."
"Is it? I always thought sex was one of humankind's more ridiculous habits," I said. He stopped smiling.
"Sex? Oh, I thought ...not to offend you or anything, but that's not at all what I was ...oh shit."
I put my glass down and frowned at him.
"Yes, of course, me neither, I just mean ...in the general sense. Some people think that getting a foot massage counts as sex, though, don't they?" I said, smiling and desperately trying to smooth over the awkwardness.
He blushed.
"Of course. Yes, absolutely."
We stared at one another. The room pulsed a little with how silent it was, before I cleared my throat and spoke again.
"Do you... do you perhaps have any questions for me?"
It began to feel like a game all in itself, guessing what the hell this handsome stranger was really here for. At the back of my mind I wondered if he wasn't as suspicious as the new car parked in my driveway right now, but somehow, looking into his smoky green eyes, I just didn't want to think that.
"Well, yes, many questions. Do you mind?"
"Nope. Fire away, I'm an open book," I said and held out my arms. I could tell he had been stealing glances at my body since the second he walked in here. I let him.
"Well, do you... do you like your clients?"
"Like them?"
"Like, do you like them as people?"
"Well, of course, I respect them very much. A proper Domme/sub relationship is based on respect. And trust..."
"OK, but do you like them?"
I couldn't tear my eyes from his. The glass felt cold and wet in my hand.
"You mean, am I attracted to them?" I said slowly.
It was undeniable.
He was flirting with me. Blatantly.
The simmering look he gave me felt as unoriginal as the flowers, and yet in that moment it felt like the most exotic thing I'd ever experienced. Had a man ever given me that look before? I had seen it in movies. Read about it. Heard about it. But it seemed laughable that right now, in my very living room, it was actually happening to me. He was undressing me with his eyes, and I was so astonished by what it felt like that I didn't have time to stop him.
I finally squirmed my eyes away and to the floor.
"I don't form romantic attachments to my clients, no." It was a sentiment I had taken care to put all over my website. He must have read it all - so why ask me now?
"You've never once had a favorite?" he pressed. "Met someone you thought was maybe a little ...different?"
You I wanted to say. You aren't my regular sort of client at all. You're different. But I held my tongue and shook my head.
"No. I'm a professional, Dean. It's important to maintain boundaries."
"I understand. Will you do this work forever? What if you meet someone one day that wants to marry you?"
I nearly choked on my drink.
"Marry me? Not likely. Never say never, of course, but no, I'm not the marrying type."
"What type are you?"
Our eyes got tangled again. I sighed.
"I like my independence. I don't want anyone telling me what to do." The words felt harsh but I couldn't help smiling, couldn't keep up my usual stern expression when he kept staring at me with those eyes.
"A bit ironic, no?" he said.
I shrugged.
"I take care of my clients. And besides, they like being told what to do," I said decisively.
"So what do you like to do?"
I gulped. I knew what he was trying to do. But for some reason, I didn't feel like stopping him. Didn't feel like telling him that this was inappropriate, that we were here to talk about his warped sexuality and not mine. Dirty thoughts instantly popped into my head and I couldn't shake them. I wanted to tell him that I was broken. That I wasn't born with all the same buttons as the other girls. That my darkest secret was that I had none, that I was blank inside, empty, a cold hollow where my sexuality was supposed to be.
"Well, I love being the boss, I love nothing more than to have complete, perfect control over my playthings, and I—"
"Is that really true though?" he said.
I shot him a hard look.
"Would you be able to tell me what you really want?" he said, so quietly it was as though he was sharing a secret with me. My face felt hot.
"That is what I want."
"I don't believe you."
When he got up off his sofa and came to sit beside me I thought I'd pass out for sure. I sat taller upright, painfully aware of just how close his thigh was to touching mine.
"I'm fascinated by boundaries, Mistress," he said in that same whisper. "Will you tell me if I'm pushing too much? If I step out of line?"
I frowned.
He was making me incredibly uncomfortable, it was true. But the other truth was that I didn't want him to stop. I said nothing.
"I have a theory that all men are submissive, by nature," he said. "That at the core of every man is only one thing: the desire to serve the right woman. Over and over again."
His words felt like a spell. Like they were bewitching me. I only stared ahead, the chilled crystal glass balancing heavy on my knee. I don't know if I was going insane, or if it was this client doing strange things to me, but I felt completely thrown off center. A tight, desperate little knot of pleasure bloomed between my legs, and I squeezed my knees tightly closed to stop the throbbing.
"I'm so intrigued by what you do, because you seem to understand all that. How erotic it can be for a man to devote himself completely to servicing a woman, to pleasing her every need, not to be her slave, but her worshipper, someone who knows her desires before even she does and can--"
"Sounds like old school chivalry to me," I said bluntly. "Not BDSM."
He was so close I could hear him breathing. I was too afraid to turn to look at him in case I got caught in his gaze again and then who knew what would happen. The room around us felt electrified. I wondered what he looked like under his suit. What his skin smelt like. What noises he made when he came...
"I'd like the opportunity to serve you, Mistress, but I won't be content with the same old predictable formula."
"No?"
"No. If I do something, I do it perfectly. If something's important to me, I make sure that I'm the best at it. No exceptions."
"You don't sound much like a sub, then."
"On the contrary. If I submit to a woman's will, it will be because I know that that submission is ultimately pleasing her. That's it what she really wants."
"Alright, fine. Get up right now bow down before me, if you're so eager to please."
"No."
I spun to face him, mouth hanging open.
"Excuse me?"
"I won't do that, because that's obviously not what you really want. If you don't want it, then I don't either."
I was getting irritated. I was just about to tell him that he was annoying me and that if he wanted to have a stupid discussion like this, then he could just leave. But then I realized: I didn't want him to leave.
The room fell silent again, but my mind was rushing. I could feel him sitting next to me, and it was so wildly distracting I could barely think straight. I tried to breathe. Tried to calm my heart and pretend that the sweet aching at my clit was nothing to worry about, and that he had no idea what was happening to me under the surface, what effect he was having on me.
What did I want?
Good question.
I wanted to fuck him now, right here on this sofa. Oh God, no of course I didn't. I wanted ...to be left alone. I didn't know how to flirt, for Christs' sake. I wanted to run away. I wanted to stay here all day and listen to his soft, deep voice. Fuck. And just as I was sure I was ready to spontaneously combust, he did something I never allow clients to do, something that is strictly verboten unless I permit it, something that is, you might say, taboo for a Dominatrix like me.
He touched me.
Again.
But this time he didn't try to pass it off as a casual gesture. This time he meant it. In silence we sat there, side by side in my stupid overdone white living room, and he carefully reached over and took my hand in his, folding warm, dry hands around my fingers and clasping me there.
I stared straight ahead, throat dry.
I'm well-versed on all the kinky fabrics of this world, and all the most perverted textures from rubber to brushed leather to surgical grade steel. But at that moment, his skin on mine felt like the most outrageously taboo thing I had ever touched, a sensation that I had all but forbidden myself from for years now.
I was on fire. Melting from the inside out and soaking under my dress. And every gorgeous sensation, every dirty thought and outrageously sexy image gushed out from this one spot: the delicious place where his warm hand met mine.
I bet you think all this is ridiculous, right? I guess I can see the comedy. A seasoned Dominatrix with a black heart and a sexual resume that would make anyone blush is brought to her knees by a hot guy holding her hand in the sitting room. And yet... that's what was happening.
He kept his hand there, and I did nothing to stop it. My usual response would be to let go with a teasing torrent of insults, to slap off his hand and demand he endure some 'punishment' for daring to touch the almighty Mistress without permission. But all of that felt so phony now. He'd already seen through it. And he was right. It wasn't at all what I wanted.
So, what happened next?
We sat.
Together.
Holding hands.
It was the sexiest moment of my life. And the most confusing. I wrestled internally. Should I pull away? Tell him he had the wrong idea, that whatever he wanted I wasn't going to give it to him and that he should find someone else? Act disgusted that he had taken liberties and made assumptions about me, a woman he barely knew?
But I did none of these things. His hand stayed where it was, and I left it there. Eventually, enough time passed that it officially became weird. But I didn't want it to stop. We were now sharing something together, something small but remarkable. He didn't try to touch me further, didn't try to kiss me or turn towards me. Our hands warmed against one another and I wondered if I could feel his heartbeat, or faint twitches under the skin.
I soon relaxed. I was waiting for him to say something, to break the spell and make a demand.
But he didn't.
Could he possibly be enjoying this as much as I was? What was he playing at anyway? It's not like I wanted him to suddenly reveal himself as a serial killer, only that him being one would have made a lot more sense to me then. Perverts I know what to do with. Sweet men who want to hold my hand? Let's say my circuits were completely fried.
I had no idea how much time had passed, but when the doorbell rang, I nearly leapt out of my skin, jumping up and realizing with horror who it was.
Angie.
Fuck.
I checked the time and couldn't believe my eyes. Surely not. Had we really run through more than an hour? Plus, Angie was early. Oh fuck. The doorbell chimed again. He got to his feet calmly, put his hands on my shoulders and stared at me.
"Expecting someone?" he said, suave as can be. I shrugged him off.
"It's my sister. Shit. You aren't supposed to be here," I said, and started to panic. "Just... you're here to look at a broken boiler or something, OK?" I said, and he nodded, a little sideways smile on his plush lips.
I rushed to open the door, already hearing Angie's excited chatter.
"Maeve! Please come on in." She entered, peered over at Dean behind me and smiled.
"This is just a plumber, he's here to fix the boiler. My uh, boiler broke," I said, sounding like the worst liar in the world.
She looked at his black suit and glossy leather shoes, then at me, but said nothing. Angie smiled and ran over for a hug, and I threw my arms around her. I hated anything from my work life touching my life with Angie. That I had her and a client in my home at the same time riddled me with guilt. The fact that I still felt wildly turned on was not helping either. No, he had to go.
"Ok, honey," Maeve said. "I'm going now, you be good for Nora and I'll see you tomorrow, OK?"
Angie nodded and took the backpack from her, but her face scrunched up as she took a closer look at it.
"Now honey, we spoke about this, your other backpack broke, remember? So we got you another one. You like this one, remember?"
We all watched as Angie's face twisted up into a scowl and then burst into angry tears. She began shaking her head, and threw the backpack down.
"No! Wrong! Not this one!" she sobbed.
One look at Maeve's exasperated face told me this wasn't the first backpack fight they'd had today. I tried to intervene.
"Honey, Angie baby, you want another Spongebob one? I can get you another one. How about we go shopping right now and get you the one you want, huh?" I said quickly, but she was inconsolable.
Dean was standing off to the side, watching everything unfold with interest. Not only had we had the most awkward encounter a few moments ago, but now he was meeting my 32-year-old 'little' sister ...and she was having a tantrum about a Spongebob Squarepants backpack. It was too much. I caught his eye with an apologetic look but to my surprise he was smiling.
"Hey, Angie, is it Angie?" he said.
She kept on bawling, looking as though she was ready to throw herself on the ground and raise hell. Easy as you please Dean knelt down, picked up the offending backpack and turned it over in his hands, looking at it with curiosity. Angie stopped screaming for a moment. In fact, both Maeve and I froze and watched him. He simply crouched and kept staring at it like it was some alien artifact.
"I'm, I'm sorry... this is just... I think this is the nicest backpack I've ever seen," he said, with a face that could win an Oscar. Maeve and I exchanged looks. He hugged it to his chest like a long lost love.
"It's just so cool. It's so colorful and, look, it has these awesome side pockets. I know I can never have it, it's just..." here he cast me a secret wink and then went back to waxing lyrical about the backpack. I couldn't help smiling but quickly caught on.
"No, I'm sorry sir, you can't have that backpack, it belongs to Angie" I said. I could tell we had caught her interest. Dean looked up at the ceiling in total anguish, still clutching the bag. It was hilarious.
"Really? Are you sure I can't just hold it for a little longer?"
Maeve caught out drift and jumped in.
"Oh, don't worry," she said, "you can keep it, Angie doesn't even want it, do you, Angie?"
We all turned to Angie to see if the ploy had worked. She had stopped crying, was staring hard at Dean, and then shyly shook her head.
"Sorry," she said sweetly, and pried it from his arms.
I gave him a consolatory pat on the back. "I'm sorry, but not everyone can have such a cool backpack, you know." Angie beamed and ran off to the living room, backpack in hand, and we all smiled after her.
"Nice work," Maeve said to him, still eyeing his crisp black suit. And it was nice work. I had never seen someone so effortlessly diffuse one of Angie's oncoming temper tantrums. And he had done it in a minute, without breaking a sweat. He shrugged and smiled.
"Yeah, a little trick I learnt at Rainbow House, nothing like creating the illusion of scarcity to drive up market value, huh?"
"Rainbow House?" Maeve stepped closer to him. "You worked at Rainbow House?"
He blushed and looked at his shoes.
"Sure. My partner and I established it more than a decade ago. It's a nonprofit designed to get kids with learning disabilities to experience the arts, you know, painting, needlework. Have you heard about it?"
Maeve looked like she was about to explode.
"Heard about it? I ...I volunteered there back in the day. Are you saying you own the foundation?"
He nodded.
Maeve grinned broadly, shook his hand and then gave me an evil look at having lied about the identity of such a saint.
"You're a good man, truly. Those were some of the best months of my life," she said.
I stared on in amusement. This guy was full of surprises.
"Anyway, I'm off," she said and made for the door.
"I should go to, too" he said breezily.
Yes, I thought. Leave now before you do something else completely unexpected. Maeve shot off and I was left standing at the front door with him. I could hear the sound of Cartoon Network blaring inside. One look at his kind face and milky eyes and instantly, like a kick, I was reminded of that secret stirring down below.
"I apologize for the interruption," I said, wondering where on earth I could go to get away from that penetrating stare of his.
"Not at all. It was good to meet your mom and sister."
"My mom? Oh no, that's Angie's caseworker. My mother is passed," I said. He nodded.
"I'm sorry."
"Don't apologize. I'm the one who should say sorry for this weird afternoon."
"Weird? I thought it went perfectly," he said. I raised an eyebrow. He was looking at me with the same deep curiosity that he had a moment ago given to that stupid backpack. Only this time it felt real. I couldn't stop myself staring at his mouth. At that juicy pucker on his lower lip. About how I was irresistibly struck with the fancy that I could order him to kiss me.
"But we didn't do anything," I said, choking on my own voice. He laughed.
"Ouch! Didn't do anything? Now you've gone and hurt my feelings," he said playfully.
"But--"
Before I could jump in an apologize again, to explain that that wasn't what I meant, he was gone, in his car and pulling off.
I stared after him.
If I were smart, I would find some way to use him to get to his father. A powerful man like Dean would know things, would have connections. And I was nicely placed to milk those connections. It was too perfect, him landing like this in my lap. I couldn't figure him out, either. Going to a professional Dominatrix to hold her hand? It didn't make any sense. I hated that my first thought was Jeff Cane and what he had to do with any of this. He had already shown me a side to him I never thought existed, so who knew what else he was capable of? If I were smart, I would figure out a way to get a handle on this.
But I didn't feel smart just then.
I stared down at my hand, and it felt cold and empty now without him. I touched my own palm and tried to make sense of the strange twinge I felt. Not just that disquieting pulsing between my legs, but somewhere deeper inside still.
Have you ever walked in a forest and found a log or a stone, and thrown it over only to discover a whole pale world of wriggling worms and bugs underneath, hidden till that point? And you feel like you've stumbled on a whole separate unfolding drama, tucked away from the rest of the forest? That's what I felt right then. Like I had unearthed a patch of my mind and was surprised to find strange, wriggling life inside. There were parts of me that I never knew were alive.
Parts that hadn't seen the sun in a very, very long time.















Chapter 7




Myth: BDSM is all about pain
Reality: BDSM is all about pleasure. Pain is just one kind of pleasure

"Open your hand," he said. I stared at him, tears in my eyes.
"I can't."
"Yes, you can. Just relax your fingers and open your hand."
I looked down at my fist, the knuckles white from the effort. His green eyes looked at me, begging.
"I can't."
"What are you holding onto anyway? Just let it go, you don't need it anymore," he said, and gently held my fist, trying to stroke the tension away from my fingers. But they were almost glued shut, like nothing in the world could wrench them open.
I felt near hysterics.
He stared hard at me, and I realized we were both naked. His eyes in mine, he firmly pressed a finger into the knot of fingers and wriggled it in, trying to unball my fist, to dig out the treasure I was gripping so tightly. If I couldn't give it to him, he'd have to take it from me.
"Open," he said resolutely.
As he pulled hard on each of my fingers and peeled each one away, I began to lose control.
"Oh god ...please..."
His strong hands pulled apart the next finger and then the next. I was at his mercy. A deep shudder ripped through me and before I knew it my eyesight blotted out and a big, juicy wave of pleasure washed over me, just as he eased open the last finger. My world dissolved, and the only thing left was his smiling voice.
"Oh god!" I whimpered.
"Good," he growled.
I shot upright in bed.
Fuck. It was just a dream.
My hand shot down under the blankets and under the hem of my pajamas. I recoiled when I realized how dripping wet I was. Heart pounding, I wiped the sweat from my brow and tried to catch my bearings. It was 4 in the morning. Just a dream. I couldn't remember what it was about. I just knew that it had rattled me, badly. And ...something else.
I fell back down into bed and automatically touched myself. My clit was swollen hot and nearly bounced at my touch. Fuck, that felt good. Being half asleep made this feel so easy. Had I... come in my sleep? It was a thrilling thought. My fingertips tended to that trembling little nub and I closed my eyes and tried to recall whatever delicious thing had done this to my body while I was asleep. But I couldn't remember any of it. And soon, that thick swell of pleasure seeped away and I lost it, and my body felt cold and ordinary again. I stopped stroking and got up, angrily tossing the covers off.
I hadn't been myself lately. I never got upset about things, never had bad dreams or let people get to me. So what the fuck was going on?
As I stood, a deep ache radiated through my pelvis stopped me dead in my tracks. That was new. I felt raw. Hungry, but in my very cells somehow, like my limbs were starving. Maybe I was going crazy.
Something possessed me to throw off my pajamas and stand naked. The ache glowed a little warmer. I stretched up high and admired the dim reflection of my breasts in the mirror on the dresser. I turned my body this way and that way to examine my shape. I was as sexy as I always was (i.e. very) but this time it seemed to have a different effect on me. I wasn't just the picture of something sexy, the sexiness was inside somehow. Just looking at the curve where my abdomen flowed into my hip and then thigh, and the neat triangle of fur where my thighs met... all of this made the ache deepen.
Had he seen what I was seeing now? Had he liked it? Was he thinking of me now?
I watched my reflection arch and twist before me, like it was posing for him, trying to beckon him. What turned him on? What was it that pushed a strong, capable man like that right off the edge ...what had him moaning helplessly? Thinking about him made the ache burn so much it nearly hurt.
I went downstairs. Down the staircase I went in naked feet, in the dark, and pushed open the door of the dungeon.
The instruments sat there, mute. My heart thumped and to my astonishment, the ache in my pussy had reached fever pitch. In here? This was nothing more than an office. My 9 to 5 sweat shop, nothing sexy about this place, surely? But my body disagreed. I obeyed the ache and closed the door behind me. I dragged my hand across the tray of instruments. I picked up the whip. The throb subsided. I placed it down again. My fingers went to a pair of handcuffs. Without thinking, I looped the steel curve round my wrist. The ache intensified. I tore it off again, sent the cuffs clattering to the table and left, slamming the dungeon door behind me.
Do you want to know about a 'day in the life of a dominatrix'? Ok, let me show you my typical schedule.
This morning, I woke up, did 30 minutes of yoga, had two cups of coffee and a banana, and scoured r/skincareaddiction. I then watched a video of a goat playing the keyboard. I showered while listening to Bellini's Casta Diva. My outfit for the day was a white leopard print jumpsuit and silver heels, and I had chosen it to meet the reporter who would help me expose and humiliate one of the world's wealthiest men in a sick bid to get revenge on him for what I was beginning to think was a sexual assault. Ok, so maybe that last part was not so typical.
I put my sunglasses on, grabbed my handbag and walked out to my car, practicing my speech. I had two home-printed photographs in my handbag and more where they came from, and I wasn't going to budge an inch until he agreed to at least double what he had offered the last time we spoke. Plus, I'd make him buy my coffee, just to rub it in.
The first picture was of a middle-aged man standing in front of a thick tree, hip jutted out to the side like a runway model, trousers unzipped and halfway down his thighs, revealing a baby pink adult diaper with the word Princess emblazoned across the crotch. The man is clearly Jeff Cane, and behind him, out of focus but plain as day, sits the California State Capitol building in soft early morning mist.
The second picture was the real treat, though. In it Mr. Cane stared straight at the camera with a seductive smile. He was on his hands and knees, wearing a cheesy schoolboy shirt and cap, flaunting his bare ass. Or it looks bare until you stared a little more closely and realized that he was wearing a tight, glitzy purple thong.
Women are physically weaker than men, yes. The average man can easily overpower the average woman. But when you do the work I do, you see just how much power a woman can really have on a man. A man can kill a woman if he wants. But a woman can do one better: she can arouse a man.
"Miss, please."
I spun around to find the source of the voice, my hand hovering on the car door. At first I didn't see her, but a short woman was rapidly walking over to me from the street, a worried look all over her face. I clutched the bag to my body.
"Yes?"
"Are you Nora Smith?" she asked, a little out of breath.
I said nothing and watched as she approached me nervously.
"I know this is a little weird, but please can I speak to you for just a moment?"
She didn't look like trouble. In fact, she was dressed even better than I was, which almost never happened. I kept my hand on the car door and watched as she nervously looked over her shoulder a few times.
"You don't know me, but I know you. Please forgive the intrusion. I can't talk for long, but I had to speak to you. I'm Elizabeth Cane..." she said and waited for me to respond.
Fuck. What the hell was it with this family? Was his great Uncle Joseph once removed going to spring out from the bushes? I took a step back.
"Please, I'm not angry, I haven't come here looking for trouble," she said, looking as though it was hard for her to get her words out. "But I have to ask you something. My husband comes to see you - please, it's no problem," she quickly added when she saw the panic on my face. "Please, I know and I've always known, and it's fine, truly. In fact, I need you to keep seeing him. I can't give you details, and I don't know why you've dropped him, but I'd do anything for you to take him back," she said, tripping over her words. Her hands were clasped in front of her, and her eyes were wide.
I didn't know what to say.
"I can pay you. Whatever you want, just please don't stop seeing him. I know you understand him. You're very important to him, I hope you understand," here she looked over her shoulders again but this time I could make out something odd: a deep, angry purple bruise extended all along the side of her neck. She had smeared make up over the skin there, but it did little to conceal the marks.
"I... I'm sorry but your husband and I ...I can't see him again," I said helplessly. It was as though I had slapped her.
"But why? Please, what would it take for you to reconsider?" she said, and all at once she was clasping my hands in hers.
Had he given her that bruise? My head spun. Her eyes darted to a car rolling by slowly in the street and she immediately dropped my hands.
"I have to go," she said, voice heavy with despair.
"I'm sorry I can't help you," I said, and I meant it. She seemed so small, so frightened. She was shaking her head like me refusing her was out of the question.
"Please promise me you'll see him again? Please? I'm afraid of what will happen if--" Again she was distracted by the car in the street and simply took off, not bothering to finish her sentence.
"If what? What will happen?" I yelled after her, but she was already gone. I tried to get a look at the car but it sped off.
My blood ran cold in my veins. What bizarre backwards land was I living in these days? Did I really just bump into the wife of client and have her begging for me to not stop seeing her husband? I quickly got into the car, strapped myself in and locked the door. I had entirely forgotten the speech I was going to give the reporter.
* * *
"I don't understand, yesterday you swore up and down that you had pictures, and now this?"
"I do have the pictures. It's just that... I can't do the story anymore. At least not yet."
"No? But you still haul me all the way out here and make me cough up $700? Fucking priceless," he said and rubbed his tired face.
"I'm sorry. I've just ...I have more information now and I just don't want to risk anything."
"Bullshit. You don't have anything and you're wasting my time," he spat, and looked as though he was ready to up and leave.
"Wait," I said.
He eyeballed my cleavage.
"Let me show you," I continued. His expression changed and he sat down. I looked all around me, then slowly reached into my bag, pulled out the first photo and showed it to him. His eyes went wide. As he reached his hand out to grab the picture I snatched it back and stuffed it into my bag again.
"I want to publish these," I said. "The plan is still the same. We just need to hold off for a little while, OK?"
He eyed me closely and then nodded slowly. I had to admit, they were shocking pictures.
"You have more?" he asked quietly.
"Lots more."
He whistled low under his breath and smiled.
"Give them to me now and you get double."
I cocked my eyebrow at him. Now he was talking. But still, it only convinced me that I should hold out and demand even more later, after I figured out what the hell was going on with his wife.
"Not yet," I said calmly. He frowned, then we sat in silence for some time. This card would always be there when I was ready to play it, but that woman's terrified face was still burnt in my mind and giving me the creeps. There was no harm in waiting.
He glanced at his watch and then me.
"You know, I paid for a half hour, and we're only ten minutes in. Does that mean I get you for the other twenty?"
I looked at him the same way you look at an unidentifiable brown smear on the bottom of your shoe.
"You've got to be kidding..."
He looked again at my cleavage.
"I'm not," he said, lowering his voice. "For interest sake, how much would it set me back to get a, uh, night with you, huh?"
I stood up and threw a bill on the table to pay for my coffee. "More than you have" I said coldly, and walked out. I knew he was watching my ass as I left. I couldn't help that, and frankly I didn't care. But I wanted him to understand the vast gulfs of money and prestige he'd have to cross to even get a chance at making such a crude suggestion to me. The oceans of difference between him and the sort of man I would even consider looking at twice were more immense than he could imagine. The café door tinkled as I walked back out to my car and left.
The sky was like it always is this time of year - blue, empty and light, even though everything down on the surface feels about ready to burn up and evaporate. As I drove, my mind inevitably wandered over to its new favorite obsession: Dean Cane. I kept returning to him like an unsolved puzzle, but every time I left feeling like I was no closing to understanding him and what he was after.
You, dear reader, probably think all of this is blindingly obvious. You can see all the signs, of course. It was plain as day: I was seriously attracted to him. But you have to understand, at the time, I was like a person seeing after being blind all my life - I just had no idea what I was looking at. People fall in love all the time, I know, and you've probably done it too, but for me? It was weird. Weirder than anything I'd ever done with a man before. Weirder even than the visit I'd had from that frightened woman this morning.
I set aside the question of whether to go ahead with my evil plan and instead put my thoughts onto something that felt more sumptuous: I had another appointment with Dean tomorrow.
And I had some planning to do.















Chapter 8




Myth: Dominatrix work is easy
Reality: Easy if you're some kind of masochist

"Mistress has decided she needs a shopping trip to Milan this week and won't be requiring your measly body to torture and humiliate," I said.
You'll laugh, but this wasn't even the first time I had said this line today. I could almost hear the pouting on the other end of the line.
"Yes, Mistress. When can I expect her return?" came the response.
I sighed loudly.
"When you're required again for my amusement I might consider contacting you, but not before. And don't even think about contacting me and interrupting my trip, do you understand?"
"Of course, Mistress."
"My little toy. Have you been jerking off every night like I told you?"
"Yes, Mistress."
"Nasty little man. And have you been remembering to say my name when you come?"
"Of course, Mistress."
"Good."
"I think I am in love with Mistress."
"Well of course you are. That's inevitable."
"May I send Mistress a gift in Milan?"
"You may not. But you may send me a picture of you wearing your belt, every day, so I know you're not disobeying me. How many hours are you on every week?"
"Three, Mistress."
"How pathetic. Increase it to four."
"Yes, Mistress."
I hung up. Then I looked down at my notepad and crossed off another name from my list. Three down and four more to go. There was no 'trip to Milan', of course, but screw it. I could afford to take a break whenever I wanted. And for whatever reason. In fact, I was enjoying blowing all my clients off so much I momentarily fantasized what it would be like to be done with all of them once and for all.
I looked around the room.
How much of everything in here was paid for by Mr. Cane, ultimately? That rug? That mirror? I looked down at my thigh high boots. Those were in fact a gift from him, almost two years ago now. And the woman inside the boots? Did he pay for her too?
I frowned and got back to my list.
I clearly needed a holiday, I was going strange in the head. I could never stop this work, not really. The money was too good, and what about Angie? She would need support for the rest of her life. I was all she had. I would be an idiot to throw it all away just because I'd had my feathers a little ruffled. I just needed a little time to shake this ugly Jeff business and business would be back to normal in no time.
I made a few more calls and then tossed the notebook aside, leaned back in my chair and plonked my heels up on the tabletop. I had no idea what to do during Dean's appointment - which was in less than a half hour. He was the only client I didn't have the heart to cancel on, seeing as we had just met and all. So sue me, I was intrigued. I had told him it was high time he came out with his preferences for how a session would play out. But he had been as mysterious as ever and replied: "I'm at your mercy."
I mean, I could have dreamt up a whole universe of dirty things to make him do for my pleasure. I could have hooded him, leashed him like a dog and walked him naked around my backyard. I could have forced him to clean my kitchen in a Minnie Mouse costume with a slit down the front for his dick to poke through. I could have done unthinkable things to unmentionable parts of his anatomy with an electrified rod.
And yet...
None of that seemed like it fit him in the least.
He was at my mercy? Really? He was due to arrive in just a few minutes and I couldn't stop my mind running all over the place. Maybe I wanted to kiss him. Maybe I wanted him to put that infuriating hand of his somewhere else.
It was against the rules.
It wasn't BDSM play at all.
In fact, I didn't know what kind of kink it was. What was it called when a man pinned you to the ground and took care of that maddening itch you had somewhere deep in your body that you were too afraid to admit to? What was the name for him teaching you, for him showing you exactly what to do to soothe that ravenous ache in you? What if I ordered him to stay for as long as it took? If I commanded him to stay with me until it was done, until he found exactly the way to bury down inside, to get at that soreness inside me that nobody else knew was there? What if I told him to kiss me, and fuck me as hard as he possibly could, and teach me?
Jesus, Nora, get a grip.
I was horny, clearly. That was all that was happening. I wasn't going crazy, my hormones were just out of whack or something. It'd pass. And just at that moment, naturally, the doorbell rang.
He was here.
I had planned nothing for our session. It was our third meeting and we were one intense hand holding session in and I was about to lose my mind. You couldn't make this stuff up.
We stood looking at one another in the doorway for a long time.
"Mistress," he said finally.
I said nothing, just looked at him and gestured for him to come inside. Could he tell, just by looking at me? Could he see, somehow, through to the back of my eyes and at all the racy thoughts I was having about him? We sat in the living room again. The goosebumps under my clothing almost hurt.
"So, have you given some more thought to what it is you want to do?" I said nonchalantly. His expression was devilish.
"Yes, as a matter of fact, I have. I want to do precisely those things that would give my mistress most pleasure."
God, not this again. I didn't know if I was more irritated with him refusing to play by any of the rules or by the fact that I seemed to morph into a bitch in heat around him, no matter what the hell he did.
"The most pleasure, huh? Ok," I said, and cracked my neck. "I want a gift."
"Sure. What gift? You are welcome to anything I own."
"Anything?" I said cynically.
"Yes. Anything."
Fine, I'd call his bluff.
I gestured to his wrist.
"Give me your watch," I said. He removed it and I could see that it was even more expensive than it had seemed from afar. I dropped it onto the floor, reached over to grab a Chinese vase from the side table, got to my knees and in a second brought it thudding down onto the watch, crushing it into fine pieces. I placed the vase back on the table, then stood so I could crunch the broken bits of watch even deeper into the carpet with the sole of my boot.
"Now can you see what a heartless bitch I am?"
It had to be at least a few grand, laying there in crumbles on my floor. I calmly sat again. But he was unmoved. It didn't seem to bother him at all. The wind puffed right out of my sails.
"In any case, gifts don't really mean anything to me. What do I care for gifts, when it's so easy for you to buy any old trinket? I want the things that money can't buy," I blurted without thinking.
He cocked his head at me.
I hadn't meant to say it. But it came out like a confession. I was almost starting to feel embarrassed when I noticed him smiling.
"You're right. You're worth more than that anyway," he said plainly, and ignored the crushed watch. "So, if not money, then what can I give you?"
He seemed to be enjoying himself. At least we were getting somewhere. I don't know where we were getting, but still...
"I want you to strip," I said, also without thinking. My heart was pounding. I never came into a session without a script, or without a plan. Speaking impromptu like this felt so dangerous. But I liked it. He stood tall and looked down at me sitting before him.
"You can't hide behind fancy clothes here," I said. And it felt strange to say it. I had no idea if it's what he wanted to hear, but I liked saying it. Then I realized: it was true. I did want him to strip. To take it all off.
The whole house, in fact the whole world could have come tumbling down around me at that point and I wouldn't have noticed.
He started by gently sliding his finger into the knot of his tie and pulling it loose. I didn't know if he meant to do it like that, or if it was just me, but the whole movement seemed so wildly suggestive. His hands were strong and large, but the way his fingers stroked gently over the silk of his tie as he unwound it from his neck and set it carefully aside was achingly delicate. It made me feel funny.
With the same slow, careful hands, he went to work loosening the buttons on his shirt one by one, each becoming a notch on a scale that seemed to measure the irresistible heat growing between my legs. By the time he had loosened the last button, I had seriously began to wonder what the hell was wrong with me.
You would swear I'd lost my mind. I had seen so many naked bodies in my life. So many men. There wasn't a bulging, hairy, purple, freckled, bald, tanned, muscular, goosebumped, wrinkled, shaved, smooth, stubbled, naked part of a human male that I hadn't had the misfortune of witnessing. And yet the thought of what this man had underneath his clothes was threatening to unhinge me.
"Keep going," I said.
He spread his legs wide and moved his hands to his belt buckle, applying the same slow attention to sliding out the loop, pulling it back, then pulling it through his belt loops and laying it over the tie. Did he know that the slower he did this, the more it was turning me on?
His hands lingered on the zip, then pulled it down, and the soft sound his trousers made as they crumpled to the floor was the sound of my breath catching in my throat. He clumsily wedged off his shoes and kicked them aside, still bundled with his trousers. He then stood before me in tight cotton boxer shorts, and the contours of his crotch became a white-hot sun in my little universe - I knew it was there, it was all I could think of, and yet I was afraid to stare at it directly.
His hands rested calmly at his side. You wouldn't think it was possible, but he looked even more powerful and commanding without his fancy executive suit and tie. He had the posture of a tribal chief, or an ancient Greek athlete on a vase, no more ashamed of his nakedness than an elk or a mountain lion would be of his. Look at me going about chiefs and mountain lions. Embarrassing, right? I was ready to compose an ode to him just then, let me tell you, that's the kind of physical presence he had.
"All of it," I said, thrilled that he seemed to be waiting for my instruction to remove that last scrap of cloth standing between us and his complete nakedness. They came off easily, and my heart skipped a beat to notice that he was already half erect, his cock thumping heavy against his leg as he bent over and stood straight again.
I gulped.
Now I'd done it.
My burning curiosity got the better of me and I stared at him now, all of him, relishing the fact that he was visibly as turned on as I felt. His cock was short and thick; a fat, violent-looking stump nestled in a sparse nest of blonde fuzz. Just to stare at that wide slab of meat sent a deep kick right through the center of me. It was too much. Too thick. Fucking him would be like the carnal equivalent of a giant nine course meal: completely over the top.
He smiled quietly at me as I examined him. It felt like a miracle that he could be so calm and composed when I felt like I was about to burst my own seams and explode there and then.
"Is this what you want?" he asked, his voice husky.
I wanted to scream, yes oh god yes your body is like all my Christmases come at once, but I bit my tongue. I wasn't about to show him what a quivering mess he'd made me.
"It'll do," I said with a cheeky smile and cocked my head at him.
Why wasn't he doing anything? Was he waiting for me to tell him? And yet I was all out of orders. I didn't want him to kiss my feet or say "yes, Mistress" or any of that other crap... but it was too dangerous to think of what I really wanted him to do.
With me.
To me.
He was the one without any clothes and yet I felt exposed.
"Tell me a secret," I blurted. "It's not enough for me that you're naked."
His eyes lit up.
"A secret? Any secret?"
I nodded. "Tell me something you've never told anyone else before. Something that makes you ashamed." I had no idea where I was going with any of this. He thought for a few moments.
"You must swear never to tell a soul what I'm about to tell you," he said. I pricked my ears.
"Of course."
He took a deep breath and his eyes glazed over, like he was looking at something that only he could see.
"Deep down," he said at last. "I know that I'm responsible for my mother's death."
What the fuck?
"I should have done more to protect her. Her passing is my fault entirely and I'll carry that shame with me for the rest of my life."
The mood in the room instantly dropped. Were you expecting him to confess to some dirty kink? Some sordid secret from his past about how he cheated or that he has a crush on his secretary or something?
Me too.
But the moment he spoke I instantly had a swell of respect for him. I had asked for a secret. And he had given me one. One look at his expression told me he was speaking from the heart.
I suddenly felt awful.
"I'm sorry, that was stupid, I didn't mean to..."
He shot me a look.
"Don't apologize. That's what you wanted, wasn't it? You wanted me to open up to you, to show you that I trusted you. Haven't I done that?"
We had gone from zero to sixty in no time at all and all I could do was stare at him dumbfounded.
"Yes... yes, I guess that was what I wanted," I said absentmindedly.
So, the scared woman who approached me wasn't his mother after all. I wanted to know why his mother died, and what made him think he was to blame. But I already felt like I had demanded too much. For the first time in my life, hiding behind a bossy persona just felt ...wrong.
Would he ask me to share a secret? What the hell were we even doing here anyway? This wasn't sex. It wasn't any kind of BDSM game, that was for sure. It felt more like two children playing a game of show-me-yours-and-I'll-show-you-mine, in a strange world they'd temporarily made for each other.
Flustered, I gestured at his clothes and told him to dress again. I was embarrassed, but I didn't know why. All my usual lines, all my fallback moves just didn't seem appropriate for him. He dressed as quietly and carefully as he had undressed, and I sat opposite him, cheeks burning, trying to find somewhere to put my eyes.
He sat beside me when he was done, but it didn't help much. I knew what he was, underneath all that.
"I've made you uncomfortable?" he said simply.
"Not at all. I'm just... I'm not sure what's happening here." And wasn't that the god's honest truth. He reached over to touch my cheek and I turned to catch his eye.
"I told you. I'm here to serve you. What's happening here is precisely what you want to happen."
I laughed.
"But that's not ...you're turning everything inside out!" I said. "With my other clients I would make up punishments for them, and I'd take complete control over them and--"
"And what? Do you get any pleasure out of doing all that? What's in it for you?"
I laughed again and gestured around my luxurious living room. The priceless Chinese vases. The expensive furniture. This room in this neighborhood that only celebrities and tech millionaires could afford.
"That's all?" he said. He looked unimpressed. "You have these men, these powerful men at your disposal, you have their minds, their hearts, and all you ask of them is... money?"
My embarrassment felt like a stone in the pit of my stomach.
"Haven't you ever thought of pushing that, and seeing where it goes? Isn't there something else you'd really like from a man?"
"But what else is there? I get to feel like I'm in charge. Nothing compares to that."
He shook his head and smiled, again, but this time he seemed genuinely disappointed in my answer.
"You sound just like my father," he said quietly.
I snapped to attention. I had all but forgotten that I had had an evil plan at all. Dean was nothing like his father. And the fact that he thought I was like that horrible old man made me feel awful.
"I only meant... Oh God, this all feels so awkward. This is how I make my living, Dean. This is what my customers want. What we did here today, the stuff you're talking about, I don't even understand it, to be honest."
"Would you like to?" he said, and moved in closer to me.
Yes, with all my heart, I wanted to say. But this was all too weird. I wasn't sure if I trusted him. Being Mistress Morgan was the game I knew, and I was good at it. I didn't want to play another game, if I couldn't be sure that I'd win.
So I said nothing.
He stood to leave and I mutely followed him to the door. There were about four million different emotions swirling around me at that moment. If you know me and know what I think about emotions, you'll understand why this constituted an extreme emergency. All the delicious electricity we had stirred up in the other room suddenly vanished. I felt stupid in front of him. Overdressed. A fraud.
"I hope I haven't taken more than my fair share of appointment time again," he said cheerfully.
"Don't worry, I've cancelled all my other clients this week." Oops. I shouldn't have told him that. He raised an eyebrow at me.
"You cancelled them... but not me?"
I tried to avoid his gaze. He seemed pleased with this, nodded and turned to leave.
"If you want to," he said, "I'd like to meet with you again tomorrow. To go a little further."
My poor exhausted heart nearly leapt free from my chest.
"Of course," I said quietly.
After he left, I threw myself on the sofa and tried to think.
Have you ever had your whole world blasted apart from the inside out? Have you ever had something happen to you that made you question everything you used to think, everything you used to be? If not, then try not to judge my melodramatics at that moment. It's the people who make a show of looking tough that are actually the weakest among us. It's those people who scoff at weakness that most wish they could relax into weakness themselves.
Ladies and gentlemen, I had a 'crush'.
A fucking serious one.















Chapter 9




Myth: In the BDSM world, there are the Dominants, the submissives and a handful of switches. Oh, and everyone else is "vanilla."
Reality: The boundaries are imaginary. The labels of each category are as arbitrary as using "pineapple" as your safe word. It might make you feel safe, but it doesn't mean anything

"So, let me get this straight, you haven't slept with the dude?"
"What? No way. I told you, that's not how it works."
"He hasn't made you put him on a rack and flog him?"
"Of course not..."
"Hasn't asked you to do anything to his nipples or told you to put in his pony butt plug?"
"Oh my god, Melissa I told you never to mention the butt plug thing ever again..."
"And you've seen him every single day this week but haven't gone into the dungeon even once?"
I sighed.
"I know right? It's bizarre. It's weird, isn't it?"
"Very weird."
"What do you think's going on?" I said.
She took a sip of her gin.
"Oh, it's pretty obvious to me. You guys are dating," she said breezily.
I slapped her arm.
"Oh come on, Melissa, don't be ridiculous. He is ...unusual. He's not like any man I've met before. And the things we do together..."
Here Melissa chuckled and gave me one of her looks.
"No, no, I get it, Nora. It's serious business. It's a kink so extreme, even California's most high profile Dominatrix is afraid of what she's getting into."
"Ok, now you're making fun of me."
"Am not. Besides, you're right. Who knows, one day you two might even go to the malt shop and kiss afterwards. The craziness never ends with you, for real."
I couldn't help laughing now either, and she ducked out of the way as I tried to get her arm again.
I took a sip of my own drink and looked around the cocktail lounge, and all the well-dressed, slightly tipsy people milling around us.
Dating?
No way.
All the pick-up lines and rules about calling and restaurant etiquette and worrying about whether they like you and whether you should sleep with them or not and what to wear and what their text means? Nope. Dean and I were most certainly not doing any of that crap.
"On a serious note, though, he does have me worried. He keeps pushing, you know?"
"Yeah?"
"Yeah. Like he keeps wanting to give me complete control over whatever happens, saying I can do whatever I want..."
"But... isn't that how it always is?"
"I guess. It's just different with him. It seems like every time we meet we break some new rules of mine that I never let clients break."
"So then tell him to stop."
"But... maybe I don't want him to stop?"
She smiled mysteriously.
"Have I ever told you that you need a shrink, Nora?"
"Only every single time we meet," I said and smiled back.
"So, when do you see him again?"
"Tomorrow morning."
"Interesting. What's the plan?"
I traced a finger round the rim of my glass.
"I... I'm not sure yet. But I'm excited."
"God, I'm so jealous."
"Of me?"
"Yes, of you. And it burns my ass you can't tell me who he is, either."
I smiled to myself.
"Oh my god, Melissa, if only you knew. He's kind of a big deal."
"So you say."
* * *
The weather was hot the next morning, and so when he arrived, I led him to the patio area instead, offered him a drink before we both sat, staring out at the pool and watching the clouds roll across the sky.
I couldn't say exactly when it happened, but we felt more familiar now, as if we had known one another for far longer than two weeks. Every encounter till now had been strange. And every time he left, he lingered in my mind for hours after, my still unsolved riddle, an impromptu actor who had stepped onto my perfect stage and ruined my whole play. I hadn't seen another client in over a week. Not even poor Ralph.
"You look beautiful today," he said, and nodded towards the silk kaftan belted over my white bikini.
"Thank you."
He looked a little more casual today himself. His suit didn't seem quite as razor sharp as it usually did, and I almost thought I detected the hint of stubble on his jaw. We sat in silence for a moment, which was something we did often, on these little visits of his. It felt easy to be quiet with him. There were a million irrelevant things I could think of to say at every moment, but none of them felt important enough to break that full, rich silence we grew between us.
Eventually, he turned in his seat to face me.
"I've told you that I like to play with boundaries, haven't I, Mistress?"
"You have."
"Well, I'd like to do more of that."
"More? You've already broken almost all my boundaries, you know," I said and gave him a teasing look.
"Have I? Which ones are those?"
"Well," I said and sat up in my seat. The warmth of the sun beating down on the deck was making me feel sleepy. "I have lots of rules and regulations." I held out my hand and began counting them on my fingers.
"One, I always stay in character during a session, unless the client says the safe word. Two, I always have a safe word in the first place, and three, I don't form romantic relationships with my clients."
I paused as I realized what I had just said. But he didn't flinch. I looked over at him staring thoughtfully out at the pool, watching the play of light the ripples made on the ceiling of the patio.
"I'm the only one you break those rules with," he said quietly.
"Yes."
If you had told me a month ago that I would be having this conversation I would have laughed in your face. And yet now it felt like the most natural thing in the world to me. Dean just did something to me. I always felt on the back foot with him. Always a little off balance. And most bizarre of all, this somehow felt to me like the ultimate safety.
"I think I just thought of something that I want," I said, keeping with the theme of all our discussions this week.
"Wonderful. What is it?"
"You must promise to do it just as I say, nothing more, nothing less."
"You have my word, Mistress."
I took a breath to find my nerve and then stared out at the ripples with him.
"I think what I'd most like to do is get up, and come to your chair, and then lay down over you. I don't want you to move at all. Only if I say so. But then, if I feel like it, I might decide to kiss you," I said slowly. "If you deserve it, naturally," I added.
"Naturally."
Maybe you're judging me right now. Maybe you think I'm pitiable because this little scrap of human affection seemed so mysterious to me, seemed so scary and strange and yes, completely prohibited. I know I'm not the most emotionally intelligent woman in the world. But I hope you can see that even though it didn't look like much, I was trying.
I got up, heart in my throat, sure my panties were about to melt right off me from the anticipation. As gracefully as I could, I lifted one leg high and then brought it down on the other side of his deck chair, so I straddled over him, legs spread wide. I watched his face like a hawk. But there was nothing there but calm curiosity. Nothing but sweet, kind attention. I lowered myself down. When my body touched his lap I felt a jolt of electricity zap right through me. He remained motionless, just as I told him to, but his eyes were alive, glued onto me, watching my every move.
I pressed that raging hot spot between my legs against him, first gently, then more firmly. The kaftan brushed lightly against his chest, concealing everything, but I could feel that he was growing stiff underneath me. Our eyes locked. I placed first one and then the other outstretched hand onto his chest and let a little more of my weight press down into him. His torso was strong and solid, so sure underneath my shaking fingers.
I hadn't meant to, but once I started, I couldn't stop. My hips tilted an inch and brought my swollen pussy grinding into him. And then, they moved on their own, rocking me back and forward against him. I quickly grabbed his hands and pressed them to my waist, and he obediently held me there, not guiding that delicious motion, but just feeling it, just watching each slow circle unfold.
Each little jolt of bliss that went shooting through me led me to lean in deeper, further onto him.
I didn't know what I was doing or why. I just knew that that sweet feeling of his heft against me was the only thing that gave me any relief from the ache I felt whenever we were together. My mind threw up a delicious memory of his cock and I got a thrill thinking that I was so close to that now, that it was that outrageously meaty part of him that was touching me now, pressing up against me as his hands gently pulled me back down onto him.
"This is definitely breaking a rule," I whispered, my breath threatening to leave me. I kept rocking, back and forward, back and forward. One of his hands slid over my stomach and came to land teasingly close to my pussy, just hovering there above that glorious spot where it was all happening.
"What about this, Mistress? Is this breaking a rule?" His voice alone was enough to make me squirm.
"It's just my body," I whimpered. "We can be sexual, but we can't be ...affectionate."
He raised his eyebrow at me, but we both kept up the same slow, small rhythm. I couldn't stop.
"Mistress, forgive me, but that doesn't make any sense. Isn't sex affection?"
"No. Sex is just sex. Just body. Affection is with ...me."
"But, Mistress, where does your body end and you start? How can you open your body without opening the rest of you?"
The glass was inching closer and closer to the floor again, threatening to break. I wanted to come more than I've wanted anything in my life. I was being tortured and there was only one thing that would soothe me, save me now: being able to come, once and for all, on this handsome stranger's lap... Behind my eyes flickered deep, swirling images of color, the same intense swirls I had tried over and over to put onto paper, sure that if I could catch that feeling in acrylic and charcoal, I'd be closer to catching it for real, in my body. He had seen those paintings. He had liked them...
I stopped.
"Mistress?"
I awkwardly put my weight in my knees and leant away from him.
"I... I got a bit out of hand just there."
"I see. Do you want to get out of hand?"
Goddamit with this guy.
And that's when I kissed him.
I wanted him to stop talking. To stop asking questions I didn't know yet how to answer. I leant forward, collapsed against him and let my lips fall into his. He responded to me easily, hungrily, devouring my lips in a kiss that was half sugary sweet, half laced with the taste of something truly devilish.
When I pulled away, his green eyes locked again with mine, and he smiled. It all felt too good to be true. He was too much. Too kind. Too sexy. I couldn't let him get close and see how fucked up I really was. What if he needed me to be this total vixen? What if he lost interest when he realized what a neurotic mess I really was?
I hopped off his lap and straightened out my kaftan. Dean Cane made me feel constantly, unavoidably drunk. He was an intoxication, and when he was around, I simply couldn't think clearly.
"Does Mistress need to be alone?" he asked timidly.
"Yes. Leave me now. You've proved yourself useful for today but I'm growing tired of you," I said and gave him a haughty glare. He saw right through it. He knew I didn't really mean it. That I just spoke like that because I didn't know what else to say.
"Very well," he said, and rose to leave.
"Let yourself out," I said.
He looked a little hurt. I wanted to run up to him, to apologize, to kiss him again and press myself against the wall of his chest. But I sat there, icy, waiting for him to leave. He had scared me. I would have to be crazy to do shit like this. Soon I would come back from my 'shopping trip' and pick up all my old clients, and life would return to normal. As for the ache at the tip of my clit, I calmly told it to shut up.
I heard the front door close as he left and sat for a moment, getting acquainted to the sinking feeling in my chest. It didn't feel good, but it did feel familiar. Whatever happened to his 'complicated kink' anyway? Was I going to land up in a ditch one day? No, clearly I had better get my head straight. I got up and went inside and to my office to look at the appointments I'd scheduled for the upcoming week.
I flopped into my swivel chair and took a pile of mail off the desk. Now there's a nice head-clearing activity: opening bills. I got to work opening up envelopes and landed on a familiar looking one. I already knew what it was.
A letter from Jeff.
I frowned, opened my top desk drawer and was about to toss it in there with the others, all unopened. But something made me change my mind. I opened it.
There was nothing I could do about the many gifts that turned up at the house every day since that pig and I had our falling out. But these little letters felt like a can of worms I didn't want to open. I didn't care what he had to say. I just wanted him to go away. Besides, there was the obvious issue of me seeing his son now. The whole thing felt hideously unethical, and I just didn't want to think about, didn't want to tell either of them about the other.
I opened the letter and was surprised to see a wall of handwritten text.
Interesting.

Nora,
I understand why you're ignoring me. And you have that right. I don't mind how long you take to get over your anger at me. But what we experienced together the other night was no mistake, and I'm not prepared to let that go.
You want to humiliate me? Here's the truth: you understand me. It's frightening how much you understand me. I admit that I took that for granted. I need you in my life again, Nora. It's more important than you know. Please reconsider.
J.

I dropped the letter like it had stung me. I was too afraid to see what the other dozen had said.
Was he mad?
I was the last person who understood him, and the thought of seeing him again made my stomach turn. I remembered the frightened woman again and groaned. Couldn't he just go away? Hire another Dominatrix and fall in love with her instead? I stuffed the letter into my draw and slammed it shut.
Damn him for ruining everything.















Chapter 10




Myth: There was a recent study showing that people who engage in BDSM are more psychologically healthy and normal than those who don't
Reality: The last thing you want to tell someone who engages in BDSM is that they're "normal"

"Thanks for letting me come along today," he said.
"Don't thank me, it's Angie who wanted you here," I said and flashed him a naughty grin.
It was true. When Angie realized we were headed for the market fair that weekend, she had all but requested him to come along by name and kicked up a fuss until Maeve and I agreed to invite him. And now here we were: the heir to the biggest tech company in the world, an angsty Dominatrix in white Doc Martens and a sun dress, and a grown woman with a painted face and a handful of helium balloons. We weren't exactly the traditional nuclear family, I know, but it felt cute, and we were having a good time.
California feels like the most generous place on the planet on days like this. The sky simply beats down blankets of warm, gorgeous sunshine, the air feels full and happy and the whole community comes alive. I had taken Angie to this fair every year since forever, but it was always just us two. Now as we weaved our way through the stalls, through the crowds of excited children and dogs wearing neckerchiefs and dancers and street magicians, I wondered if the fair was happier this year somehow, or if it was just me.
Angie was on her best behavior, making eyes at Dean at insisting she order the same flavor smoothie he did at the smoothie truck. For the first time I saw Dean wearing something other than an expensive couture suit. But he still seemed to be made of different stuff from everyone else. He still towered above us all, confident, calm, so that you almost felt the suit on him. With some amusement, I realized he hadn't replaced the watch I'd smashed to smithereens.
"Well, what do you say?" he said. I looked to see Angie yanking him off towards a stall with a few bullseyes and an arc of enormous stuffed animals hanging overhead.
"Absolutely not," I said.
"Come on, I bet you're a good shot," he said laughing, as Angie dragged him off to go and play. I followed, not quite believing we were about to do something so cheesy. I exchanged glances with Dean as Angie hurriedly paid the man a few dollars and he dutifully handed over two guns. I shook my head and so Dean took one of the rifles - it looked so tiny in his hands! - and shot a mischievous look at Angie. She squealed in delight.
"Play nicely, guys. I don't feel like a trip to ER today, thank you," I said. They both barely heard me.
We never did stuff like this, Angie and I, but they seemed to be having so much fun I didn't have the heart to stop them. It wasn't long before Angie had popped off a few rounds in all directions, missing the target but having so much fun that a small crowd gathered to watch and cheer her on. When she finished her round the crowd gave a good-natured clap and Angie beamed from ear to ear.
"Your turn, buster," I said as the target fell backwards and lifted back up again. He made a big show of wiping the sweat from his brow and frowning, then gave Angie a wink.
"Oh, I don't know. My friend over here is a pretty tough act to follow," he said, and lifted the shotgun to peer through the sight. I couldn't help but giggle at the ridiculousness of the situation. I had never seen Angie so captivated. Hell, even I was captivated.
Dean proceeded to pop off five shots, one briskly after the other, with the speed and precision of a sniper. The crowd fell silent as his fingers worked skillfully over the trigger, firing pellets into the dead center of the bull's-eye. The crude toy gun in his hands transformed into a real rifle, and Dean, his green-grey eyes riveted on the target, looked like nothing other than a highly trained professional marksman. It was eerie how swift and accurate he had been.
He flicked his wrist to bring the rifle down, pretended to blow smoke off the barrel and then tilted his imaginary hat in my direction.
"Want to try?" he said, a naughty expression on his face. I was speechless, but I couldn't help smile and grab the rifle from him.
"Show off!" I laughed, and grabbed some money from my purse to pay for my own round. "You're not the only one who can hit a target, you know," I said and tried to take aim. Angie squealed and laughed and clapped her hands together.
The noise of the fair disappeared from my focus, and I tried to line up the crosshairs with the black dot on the bullseye. I exhaled, steadied my hand and tried not to pay any attention to the fuzzy feeling I had all through me. He was so fucking charming. It was all so cheesy and yet I couldn't help grinning, couldn't stop those schoolgirl flutters in my belly.
I squeezed the trigger and a hole pinged in the center of the target. The crowd stirred. I took aim again, and popped another shot, this one a little off center but still squarely in the black. I followed with another one. Perhaps I had a secret talent after all. Perhaps this is what I was meant to do with my life: run off into the sunset to be a sexy assassin with Dean.
I had soon fired off four shots into the bull's-eye and was aiming for the last. The thrill of this little competition had my cheeks warm and the smile still glued to my face. I took a deep breath.
"You'll never make it," he whispered into my ear.
"Stop trying to psyche me out!" I said, and wobbled on my aim.
"You've missed it already, you can't compete with a pro like me, you know," he said, doing his best evil villain voice. I giggled but maintained my aim. Just as I squeezed the trigger, his hand went quickly to my waist, I gasped and pulled the barrel to the left, releasing the last pellet into a helium balloon to the side, which rapidly deflated before my eyes.
"Dean!" I gasped, shooting him a dirty look. Angie was roaring with laughter. I looked down at the place he had touched me, just below my navel.
"You cheated!" I said, placing the gun down as the crowd around us began to chatter again and wander off.
"Cheat? Me? Never."
"Right at the moment I pulled the trigger, you distracted me..."
"I think you distracted me by wearing that sexy little sundress," he said without skipping a beat. I laughed and punched his arm.
"I can't believe you," I said, and I couldn't.
"I should report you to the fairground police, actually, for foul play," he said.
We three walked off, laughing and goofing around.
"This is so nice," I said eventually, when Angie went off to pet a dog. "She's really having such a good time."
What I meant was that I was having a good time. This is what people did, I guess, when they were living an ordinary life. This is what it felt like to be normal. And happy. We strolled around, ate some cotton candy and watched a street juggler.
It was easy to imagine for a second that I belonged here, with these families and regular people. That I didn't have a strange and embarrassing profession, that I could just walk in a crowd with good, ordinary civilians ...and that this man wasn't one of my clients but a friend. Maybe even a...
Ugh. But can you imagine? Me? Miss Susie Homemaker out on the weekend at a fair being all good and proper? Laughable. That ship had sailed. I was a freak, and even if I wanted to quit my job forever, it's not like I had a transferable skill set.
Angie tugged on my sleeve and pointed to the long line for the Round Up ride.
"No, baby, that'll make you sick," I said.
"Please."
I looked over at the garish pink and yellow metal whizzing high above our heads. The last thing I needed was for her to puke all over everyone.
"Are you sure, baby? Don't you want to try another ride?"
"I'll go with her, and we'll be just fine, won't we Angie?" Dean said with a twinkle in his eye. I looked over at him and didn't know whether to throttle him or kiss him.
"Fine. But don't come crying when you both feel sick later."
"Go and hold a place for us, Angie, we'll be there soon," he said to her, and she ran off happily to join the line.
"What are you--"
Before I knew it, he had taken my hand and was pulling me through the crowd, till we were both standing between two brightly painted trailers. He had a giddy smile on his face as we both hid away from the flow of people, tucked off into the tiny alley made between the trailer walls.
"And just what are you doing?" I said giggling and trying to catch my breath. "You're crazy," I began to say but in an instant he had pressed his own smiling lips to mine and we tumbled into a long, juicy kiss that surprised us both. Soon he had pressed the full weight of his chest into me and pinned my body against the cool corrugated iron of the trailer wall, where it buckled a little under me. I yielded instantly, my legs buckling and the butterflies in my stomach bursting all the way through me.
His hands went everywhere. Again to the curve of my waist. To the warm crook of my neck where he tilted and anchored my chin to bend me deeper into a kiss. His tongue was soft and sweet and moved urgently over mine in a caress so passionate it felt like he had been waiting all day for it.
"Fuck, you're all I think about, you know that?" he growled into my ear as he traced his kiss greedily over my cheek and down my neck.
I could still hear the sounds of the fair but they were happening somewhere far, far away now, somewhere away from this little hideaway he had pulled me into. His words were molten, and just hearing them burnt holes right through me. I loved the desperate edge to his voice, loved from how deep in his throat that sound seemed to come.
I could do nothing but whimper and kiss back, turning to jelly in his arms, a shock of pleasure zapping all through me and collecting in one gooey, tight spot right between my thighs.
"All I can think of is what I want to do this perfect little body of yours," he said to my collarbone. His breath was hot against my skin. Far away, some kids screamed with glee as a ride spun them around and over.
"Dean..."
"I haven't been able to keep my eyes off you all day," he continued and his broad hands were instantly squeezing the top of my thigh. It felt so good that a moan escaped my lips before I could stop it. I could feel all of him, pressed firm against me, and then he started to kiss me again...
I pushed him away.
"Dean, what are we doing?" I gasped.
He blinked at me.
"What are we doing? I was kissing you and trying to get you to make that sound again. And you were enjoying it," he said with a little sideways smile so naughty it should have been illegal.
"Dean, I'm serious."
"So am I."
My head spun.
"Is this... are we ...Dean are we dating?"
He cocked his head to the side.
"I don't know. Do you want to be?" he said, easy as can be. I couldn't believe how calmly he was speaking, like he hadn't just had his delicious tongue all over me. Like he hadn't been turning my world upside down for two weeks now.
"But ...where do you see any of this going? What happens now?" I suddenly became aware of the fact that we weren't all that well hidden from the crowd.
"Now? Well, when I was done kissing you, I thought we should probably go line up for the Round Up ride before Angie notices we're missing."
I sighed and squirmed out of his grasp.
"Dean, I'm being serious..."
He took a step back, looked over his shoulder at the stream of people walking past the trailers and then back at me, with that look that lets you know there's more going on than meets the eye.
"Ok, fine. Let's be serious. You're right. You wanna get married? Wanna have a few kids with me? Hell, if you wanted to carry on with your work, that's cool too, I'll help you. I didn't get on the Fortune 500 list for nothing, you know, if you've got a business, then I've got some pointers. You wanna get a dog?"
I couldn't believe what I was hearing. All I knew was that again, he was saying something I completely, utterly didn't expect, and I couldn't help but laugh.
"Are you making fun of me? This is serious. I'm a sex worker, in case you haven't noticed. I'm not a regular woman. Don't be stupid. You could basically round me up to a prostitute."
"Nah, that's where you're wrong."
"Oh? Then why did you pay me $3000 for the pleasure of coming with me and my sister to the fair today?"
He cocked his head over to the side again.
"Ok, so you want me to stop paying you? Got it. Done," he said and gave me a big goofy smile. But I was losing my temper.
"Oh my god, Dean, stop trying to give me what I want, dammit!" I snapped.
It was his turn to go serious. He didn't have a witty comeback this time, or a silly smile.
"Dean, I just think at some point we're going to have to be realistic and stop seeing each other like this..."
"So you don't want to see me anymore," he said quietly.
"I think so."
My skin felt cold now on the place where he had been touching me only moments before. He was staring at the ground. I could tell he was thinking intently.
"What do you need? What can I do to change your mind? Tell me, anything..."
"I already told you, Dean, this is so weird..."
"But hear me out," he said, and took my shoulders in his hands. "My job is to keep paying you, and your job is to keep giving me orders. Any orders. That's it. No pressure. What happens here is purely up to you and you alone. Whatever you want. Let's say if you tell me to do something and I truly can't do it, then I'll say goodbye and you'll never hear from me again. Deal? If not, I get to keep seeing you. Call it a game," he said quickly, his voice hushed and urgent.
"But Dean, maybe I'm tired of games. Maybe I don't want to even do this line of work anyway..."
"Then don't. Cancel all your clients, tomorrow. You don't have to see another one ever again."
"Oh yeah? And how am I supposed to pay my bills?"
"I'll pay them for you. Done. All you have to do is tell me to do it, and I will, right?"
His hands were still wrapped firmly on my shoulders, his grey-green gaze staring straight through me. He was relentless. No matter what I said, he seemed to always know exactly the response that would disarm me.
"That's crazy. In any case, don't be dumb, you can't possibly do everything I want."
"Of course I can."
"What if I make you do really crazy things, huh? What if--"
"Try me."
The cool air between us seemed electrified. His hands against my skin felt cool and a little dangerous. Why the fuck was he doing any of this? What on earth could be in it for him? But I could still taste him on my lips. Still felt that magnetic pull between my tongue and his, and had to fight that dizzying temptation back in towards another kiss. Wasn't this my actual job? Why was I so petrified about agreeing to what seemed like a setup so perfectly in my favor? I had nothing to lose. So why did I feel like I was about to embark on the most dangerous 'game' I'd ever played with a client?
"Anything I want?"
"If you really want it, then yes."
"And if you can't do it, then we call everything off?"
"No questions asked."
"Fine," I whispered. "I'll play along. For now. But you're crazy, and you're going to see what a stupid idea this is."
He smiled softly and leaned in a little closer to me, wrapping all of his tall, imposing figure around mine, reaching down to take my chin in his hand and trace a faint line with his thumb against my lower lip.
"I wasn't expecting that, by the way," he said.
"Expecting what?"
"For you to be such a good kisser."
Just like every other day this week that I had spent semi-flirting with him, I was already so completely, desperately wet it was almost distracting. My body sure as hell didn't seem conflicted about what was happening here. In fact, if he were to grab my wrists right now, turn me around, lift my sundress and fuck me right here, I'd be more than ready for it. The thought alone seemed to make the situation worse.
Did he know what effect he was having on me?
Is it what he wanted?
Is that what I wanted?
I was just about to tell him once more how crazy he was when he moistened his lips, smoothed down his shirt and stepped out of our little makeshift alley, holding his hand out behind him to invite me to follow.
I did.
We went back out into the light and noise and chaos of the crowd, towards the line to find Angie. I walked in silence behind him, my hand in his as he led us through the crowd with me trailing behind. I felt shaken. Like parts of me were still vibrating from being pushed up against that corrugated iron and kissed like that.
But I didn't know how to do any of this. I didn't know what to do with this wiggly, aching feeling inside me. With how wildly exposing it felt to want him this much. But fine. He said I could tell him to do anything I wanted? Then I would. But, oh, he'd see.
When we had found Angie in the queue again, she had sat herself down on the floor and was rocking a little, in her own world bobbing the balloons on their strings. I leaned over casually to him and spoke under my breath.
"The first thing you're going to do for me is be 100% honest."
"Ok."
"Do I turn you on?" I said. I had meant it to sound seductive. Inviting. But it came out sounding like an insecure schoolgirl looking for validation.
"Immensely."
"Do you want to fuck me?" My heart pounded furiously in my chest. He took a little longer to answer this time.
"So much it's driving me crazy."
The knot below tightened a little more.
"Ok, well, good. Now on to the next thing I want. I don't want us to have sex yet."
He turned to look at me.
Of course, now he'd try to rewrite the rules. Try to convince me, or seduce me. He'd backpedal, of course. Fucking men. Maybe that's all he wanted out of me, and the ruse of a 'game' was just to get us where he wanted: sex. But to my surprise, he was smiling.
"Did you say 'yet'? Well I certainly wasn't expecting it, but I have to say, I like the way you think," he said and smiled that naughty smile at me. I couldn't resist a laugh.
"Do you think we'll ever get to the front of this line, though?" he said, quickly changing the topic.
"You have somewhere to be?"
"Well, I had an important meeting this afternoon at around 4..." he said, gazing out over the endless queue snaking to the front of the ride.
"Cancel it," I said.
He looked at me again.
"Cancel it?"
"Yeah. Call them to cancel and come home with me and Angie. I'll drop her off and then we'll spend the night together at your place." I said the words quickly, before I lost my nerve.
"Home with you, huh? To not have sex?"
"Exactly. We can not have sex all night long. Deal?"
"Deal," he said quickly.
I eyed him over to see what else he would say, to see how he'd wriggle out of it so I could catch him breaking the rules of our 'game' already and get to say I told him so. But he just stood there, smiling.
"You're nuts," I said, and reached down to grab his hand in mine. He took it and held it tight, and let me lean against him as we waited quietly in the line.
I like the color white because it's clean. Because it's empty and pure and easy. White is like opting out of a color, it's safe and sane and yes, a little cold. My life was crisp and clean and neat at the edges. I had become an expert at bleaching everything out so that only the bare minimum remained. I had known Dean for only two weeks, and already he was like a bright, multicolored stain spreading right across the neutral, safe white of my life. Dean was like electric hot pink and neon green and bight, acid yellow blaring all over my tasteful minimalism. He was like paint splatters on my mind that I couldn't clean up fast enough.
And yet, I couldn't resist. Part of me was curious. More than curious.
I wanted to see just how far he would go...















Chapter 11




Myth: Proper kinky sex is about trust, safety, respectful boundaries and comfortable, mature exploration of the desires of mutually consenting adults
Reality: The most raw, bone-shatteringly good fucking always happens right at the edge of what you're most afraid of. Good sex is dangerous. You SHOULD be a little uncomfortable.

"Your house is so... I expected it to be--"
"Bigger?" he said.
I smiled.
"I'm sorry, I'm being impolite, I just imagined you'd live in some kind of castle, I don't know," I said and followed him as we walked into his humble studio apartment.
"Oh, sure, I do. I just like to keep all my castles in Europe," he laughed and gestured for me to sit down.
There was no denying it now. What little scrap of professional relationship we ever had was well and truly demolished.
I was at his house.
We had kissed.
And now... I had told him in no uncertain terms that I wouldn't sleep with him. Which of course meant it was all I could think of. Though I was sitting on his sofa, though I was so turned on it felt like I would burst if he looked at me funny, though he kept piercing me with those green eyes of his and that devilish smile, over and over... I had told him it wouldn't happen. And now, the only way it would happen is if I told him it's actually what I wanted.
Suddenly, the warbling sounds of a soprano's voice burst into the room and snapped me from my daydreaming. I looked up at him walking towards me, a bottle of champagne in his hands.
"Il Trittico," I whispered. "I haven't heard this in ages."
"I knew you'd appreciate that," he said, smiling with satisfaction.
"Appreciate it? No question it's Pucini's most underrated--"
"Most underrated opera. I couldn't agree more."
"You... you know about opera?" I asked, taking the fluted glass he offered me and forcing myself to drag my ears away from the hypnotizing sounds and back to his voice, equally hypnotizing.
"No, I don't know a damn thing about it, to be honest. I'm an uncultured buffoon, it's part of my charm, you see. But I knew you'd like it," he said, easily popped the champagne cork and began pouring frothy golden liquid into our glasses. The house may have been on the modest side, but the champagne must have cost the earth and the glassware looked like it belonged in a museum.
"So how did you know I liked it?" I asked.
"It doesn't matter. I told you. My job is to find out all the things that please you the most, then do those things, right?"
Of its own accord, my hand lifted the glass to his, we clinked then both took small sips of the sparkling liquid, eyes still glued together. Of course, I was tipsy long before I took that sip. I thoughtfully set my glass down and smoothed my hands over my lap.
"Right. And that's part of your complicated kink, isn't it?" I said and shot him quick look. His smile was as effervescent as the bubbles fading on my tongue.
"Well, yes, we'll get to that later," he said quietly.
One part of me wanted to run away and never have him look so deeply into my eyes again, and another part wanted to push him back onto this sofa and make him finish what he started earlier at the fair today. I ping ponged back and forward between these two so fast I felt I was going crazy. He leaned back in his seat; spread his arms wide and exhaled.
Compared to mine, his house was positively Bohemian. Everything was in a muted shade of dark blue or leather or black, and everything seemed designed exclusively to be lounged against. I had already seen him naked. Already seen him stripped bare and staring back at me, face open and with that little glint of mystery in his eye. And yet something about curling up here in his home with him, me over here with champagne in my head and him over there in his woolly sweater... it all seemed four billion times more erotic than anything I had ever thought about before.
I took another sip, leant back and exhaled like him, feeling the bubbles smoothing over the ragged edges of my breath.
"You're my strangest client, you know that?" I said at last.
"Really? I don't believe you. I bet you've met millions of more interesting men than me."
"Oh, interesting, yes. But you're strange," I said, and he laughed.
"Tell me about them," he said.
I took a deep breath and another sip. "Well, you wouldn't believe the naughty things I've done," I said, in a seductive voice I hadn't quite decided yet was real or just pretend.
"No?"
"I used to be a bit wild, in my youth."
"Wild?"
"Oh yes."
"Tell me."
This was fun. Despite everything, despite how dangerously close he was coming to seeing just how fucked up I was, I was actually enjoying myself.
"Well, since you like games so much, here's a game. I tell you two stories, and you have to guess which one is a lie."
This had his attention.
I loved the way he was looking at me. His face never stayed still for long. There was always something going on with it, under the surface, shifting subtly with every little change in expression. It excited me.
"Story one," I said and took a deep breath, realizing how close he was sitting. "I once fucked a pilot in the cockpit on a jet flying to Spain. I sat in his lap and he fucked me really hard and the copilot watched us both and jerked off a little. We landed an hour later and I could still feel it."
His eyes were wide and he had stopped smiling.
"Story number two. I was once at a fancy charity dinner, at a table with a really hot couple. I stroked the guy's cock under the table with my foot until he caught my drift and we both got up to meet in the men's restroom. When we were finished screwing, you know what he said? He said, 'now go and call my wife'. And so I did. I never saw either of them again but I never did decide who was the better fuck."
In the silence that followed, I drained my glass and felt myself relax a little deeper into the comfy sofa. He lifted his eyebrows and whistled low under his breath.
"Those are some ...interesting stories," he said.
"But which one is a lie?"
"The second one."
I smiled.
"I'm right, aren't I? Ok. Again," he said, his face still serious.
"Another round?" I teased.
"Yeah."
I cleared my throat and made a show of playing with the rolled edge of the sofa cushion.
"Story number one is that I was at a very exclusive, very fancy celebrity party once. Things got out of hand. Somebody dared me to strip, so I did. Before I knew it, they were all getting naked, too. I don't remember how many men there were, but I fucked each of them. Many times each. They did things to me..." I said, trailing off for dramatic effect. "Story number two is that once this very wealthy English gentlemen took me on a horse ride, on his estate in Dorset, but when we were far out in the woods we dismounted, he tore my clothes off, put me against a tree and fucked me so hard my feet came off the ground. I had bark burns all along my back, so that night he had his maids rub me down with ointment. I think he liked that it burnt a little. I think he liked to watch my face as I winced..."
"Mmm that's hot," he whispered.
"Hot? So you're not jealous?" I teased.
"Nope."
"Ah, I see. So you're one of those who gets off on his girlfriend sleeping with other men?"
Silence.
"No, not at all. I just know that none of your stories are true. But I am enjoying the idea that you thought of them at all. And that you think of yourself as my girlfriend."
My cheeks burst into flame and I sorely wished I had more champagne to guzzle.
"Well, yes, fine, I made it all up," I said and couldn't help giggling. It was hard to feel embarrassed around him. How could I, when he kept giving me that warm, easy smile of his?
"Actually, the truth is, I'm a bit of a prude". I pulled my legs up onto the sofa. It didn't escape my attention that our legs were touching. He didn't pull away.
"Now that I don't believe," he said.
"It's true!"
"Can't be."
"It is. You want to know a secret? I've only had one proper relationship before."
"Really?"
"Yup."
Again his face shifted and flickered as a new expression went over his face.
"And to make matters worse, he was a total asshole. Seriously. Just, the worst guy," I said laughing. But he was serious again.
"Well, that's just not right."
"Ah, it's OK, we broke up a long time ago, in fact when I was still in college..."
He looked at me hard. Shit. I was saying too much.
"So, you haven't been with anyone since college?"
I knew what he was asking. What's more embarrassing than having a bit of a slutty past? Being a sad loser who hasn't had sex for years, that's what. My mouth suddenly went dry.
"I'm sorry, this is all a bit too much information, isn't it? I'll shut up now," I blurted, and pulled my knee away from his, but he immediately shot his hand out and touched me, on my thigh, as though to say, stay here. I looked at him.
"Is this what you really want, Nora? To be apologetic and shy and unsure? We can do that if you want, but I have a feeling we could spend our time some other way..." He lifted his hand and placed it gently to my cheek, stroking my jawline with his fingertips. Every cell in my body jolted awake at his touch.
What did I want?
More of that.
"You're right. I'm just ...nervous," I breathed.
"Of what? There's nothing to be afraid of. I already told you. The only things that happen here, with me now, is whatever you want to happen."
But could I really ask him for what I wanted? Could I let go and trust this beguiling man, this stranger who was promising me something that just didn't seem possible? Where was the catch? I had set up my entire life so that I could always be in control. And yet...
"So what if I told you that I wanted to have sex after all?"
"Then that's what we'd do."
I gulped and let that settle in. It was an unbelievable rush, knowing that I was just a word away from all that. From him. From that beautiful body I had seen not long ago and knew was waiting for me, under his clothes right now. He stroked my cheek again and pulled me a little closer, and I kissed him. There was no effort in it, no intention. In fact, it was only release, only giving up the tension, surrendering to what my body clearly wanted so badly.
I collapsed into him and got carried away in the kiss, till I didn't know if I was letting him kiss me or he was letting me kiss him. I just knew that the longer my lips and tongue stayed caressing his, the further that delicious warmth spread over me, and the easier it was to press myself against the firmness resting just underneath that soft sweater. The only thing that seemed to stop me from melting into a puddle right there was his firm, steady hand cradling my neck and his other hand pressing down on my upper thigh.
"Dean, I..." I tried to speak between kisses, my voice coming in gasps. "Dean, I want..."
"Tell me what you want," he said, kissing me hungrily.
"I want..." it felt like the words were so big they stuck in my throat. Too scary to say. "I want you to fuck me," I said, spitting it out, more of a plea than an order.
"Then tell me. Tell me exactly how much you want it," he growled, leaning deeper into me to kiss me a little more roughly. My entire body ignited. I had never been spoken to like that before. Say it again?
I grabbed his hand and pulled it further down, so that it rested between my legs, just inches away from that throbbing spot that he had turned on the very moment he had waltzed into my life. I could taste his smile.
"Good. Now say it. Say what you want," he mumbled, his lips all over mine, our breath hot and desperate, his palm pressing hard against me through my clothes. I moaned.
"Please, Dean. I want you. I want to do this with you..."
"How badly? Tell me."
He was teasing me. I couldn't believe it. But the answer to how badly I wanted it was clear: very fucking much. So much that I felt ready to do anything just then so long as he'd stop teasing and just fucking touch me already...
"God you're beautiful," he mumbled as he slid his hands up under my sundress and pulled, revealing my pale skin underneath.
"Take it off," I blurted. "I want you to take it all off" I said, my voice frantic with longing. This seemed to turn a switch in him. He set his jaw, got to his knees and rapidly got to work pulling off my dress, tugging my shoes off and pulling away my bra and panties. It took my breath away, the energy he put to work completely stripping me. He was possessed, and after I realized nothing would deter him, I let my head fall back and offered myself to him to be roughly undressed.
Only my panties remained. I squeezed shut my eyes knowing that when he peeled them off, he'd find ample, obvious evidence for how disgustingly turned on I really was. He slid the fabric down my thighs and paused a little, and I knew that he was taking me all in. Knew that my drenched thighs and soaked pussy had caught his attention. My heart pounded madly in my chest.
"Don't stop," he said in a throaty voice. "Keep talking."
So I let go. Just a little. I held my breath as he slid the loop of my underwear off over my ankles, and then I was naked, and I let him look at me. Then I opened my mouth to speak, hoping the words would form.
"I want you to touch me," I said, doing my best to keep my voice steady.
"Good. Tell me where," he said, and brought his lips close to my neck. I shuddered at the sensation of his fully clothed body against my naked skin. I grabbed his wrist and urgently pressed his hand to that tender, dripping spot.
"Here," I hissed into his ear. "Right here."
He felt heavy against me, pinning me down with his broad chest. When a single finger dipped low into that aching slit I thought I would scream. He carried on, tracing a sinewy line down over that thumping knot of pleasure and further, further down into that secret pool...
"Oh fu--"
"I said don't stop talking," he ordered, and watched my face intently.
"That's good," I whimpered. And sweet fuck was it good. He seemed to know exactly where to stroke me, exactly how to touch me, exactly when to drag his fingertips away and tease me. Suddenly, what he had been telling me took on another, more exciting color. Maybe I should tell him exactly what I wanted. Maybe I could speak out loud all the dirtiest thoughts I'd been holding inside my whole life and dare him to make good on his word and please me, if that's what he wanted so bad.
Images and ideas bubbled up irresistibly in my mind.
"Inside," I breathed, and clawed at his back to anchor myself against the torturing bliss of having him stroke my clit like that.
"Inside?" he said with mischief in his voice, but before I could respond he had sunk his finger into that quivering pool, dipping into a whole world of pleasure stirring just an inch inside. He held me down as I wriggled against every inch he pressed in. His eyes were wild as he watched me.
"Another one," I said. It was all I could manage. I was intoxicated, a bewitched mess, unable to speak properly anymore.
"You want another one?" he said and teased another finger at that tingling entrance.
"Yes," I said, but the sound didn't make its way fully out of my throat. I rolled and gyrated against his hand, twisting and snaking against him for more. But he took his time sliding in the next finger, so much time that I felt my whole body arching towards him, begging him to fill that hole.
Like a woman possessed, my tongue and lips spoke on their own. "And another one," I gasped, and I felt him growl in approval. It was a delicious ladder, and each step took me higher and higher, closer to some gorgeous burning point deep inside me that I just wanted him to touch.
"You like that?" he breathed.
He was everywhere. His voice was in my ear, his arms were locked all around me, his strong body was on top of me, and down below, his fingers were stroking up a heat that felt so outrageously dirty I was certain I had soaked his hand and was dripping onto the sofa.
"I want..." I said, waiting for my body to speak for me again, for me to fill in that delicious blank and magic up the next blissful sensation. "I want..."
He leaned in closer, pressing a ridiculously hard cock square against my leg. He had me three thick fingers wedged deep inside me, each of them stroking me so expertly I couldn't think straight, so deeply I felt my entire body swell and tense around him.
Didn't I want that cock inside me? Didn't I need that thick, juicy tool of his crammed far inside me, and wasn't that the only thing that would satisfy me right now?
I gasped and pulled back away from his kiss.
"Dean I... I have to tell you something. It's been ...it's been a really long time for me." I didn't know if I could handle all this. Handle ...him. His body was so intimidating.
"Does it matter?"
"I guess not," I said, still rocking my hips over his fingers, stroking out my own delicious rhythm there, still not quite believing what this man could make me feel.
"Relax for me," he said, and played with his fingers now, pulling them out, then slowly stuffing them all the way back in again. It was a brutal, filthy movement, but done so slowly it almost felt... romantic.
I knew I only had to give the word. Only had to say exactly where I wanted him to stick that beast of his and how deeply, and he would do it. I could tell him to bend me over now and fuck me savagely from behind, or order him to press my legs so far open that my knees went to my ears, so he could squeeze every last inch of that thing into me, right inside as far as he could reach, and fuck me hard till I couldn't take it any more. I could tell him to grab my hair in his fist and force his cock all the way into my throat, and then...
"Stop," I gasped.
He stopped.
"There's something else," I said, short of breath, struggling to maintain my composure when he had three fingers knuckle-deep into me, and there was no way he wasn't feeling my overwhelmed body twitching and trembling with each delicious stretch, and release, and stretch, and release.
"Dean, I want to be honest. I want to tell you the truth... I've never had an orgasm before," I said, and closed my eyes to wait for the fallout of such a confession. But his gorgeous fingers didn't stop their caressing.
"So?"
"It's just... I can't..."
"Then don't."
Silence.
"Just don't stop telling me what you want, Nora. That's all you have to do. Come all the way out with me anyway, I don't care."
I whimpered, suddenly unsure if I was about to cry or laugh, or explode all over him. I had never had an orgasm. No, not one. Yes, I'm sure. And yes, I've tried everything. What did I want? For him to keep going. To keep doing that dirty thing with his fingers. It felt unreal, to be stretched, to be held open, to find myself happily accommodating him, my juicy body shaking violently around him yet welcoming him in deeper with every thrust in, then out, then in again.
"I want ...this," I said, reaching down to his cock and gasping at just how solid it felt in my hand. He pulled away briefly to remove his clothes, but kept his hazy eyes nailed to mine. When he came to lay down beside me again, his skin was warm and soft and smelt so good I couldn't help but bury my face against it and draw a deep, indecent breath. With shaking hands, I again reached for that massive rod, and felt it swell in my hands.
I was scared.
I was thrilled.
I couldn't believe this was actually going to happen. I kissed him, this time his tongue feeling like a language against mine, a language that said yes or like that or please don't stop...
I can't exactly tell you the series of events that led to his wide, stiff cock pressing me open. By that point, I was no longer myself, no longer 'there', but somewhere far away, somewhere in a world made only of the hot scent of his skin, and the delicious aching tear of having him climb all the way up inside me. And then it happened when I wasn't thinking about it happening. It happened suddenly, and like a spell, like a hiccup, like tripping and falling.
"Tell me what you want, Nora."
"I want this ...oh fuck, I want it..."
"Tell me. Fucking say it!"
"Oh god... I want your cock, please..."
"You want what?"
"I want your fucking cock" I cried.
I peeled open my eyes to see him grinning down at me, his strong body curling brutally into mine, bringing down the full length of that immense cock slickly into my aching pussy, again and again and again... He bit his lower lip and gave me a cheeky kiss, even as he kept pounding into me below.
"You feel that, Nora?" he said, his breath hot in my ear.
I almost laughed out loud.
"You fucking feel that? Look how much you love it," he said, and I gasped to try and answer him but I couldn't speak anymore. I could only glance down and see his swollen, red cock pumping in and out of me, so wet it glistened. It was so outrageously hot to see I felt something break inside me. I couldn't hold on any longer. I didn't want to hold on any longer...
"Dean, I think I'm... Dean..."
My whimper turned into a slow, silent scream as a dam burst inside me and a wave of heat ripped all the way through me. I felt myself clenching hard down on him, but each spasm that met his thick cock only seemed to prolong the wave, only seemed to keep me at that quivering height even longer. I clawed at his shoulders but he only thrust deeper into me, like he knew exactly where I needed the head of his cock, and why...
"Fuck, you're gorgeous," he said and pulled me close to him, and I could feel my chest fluttering against him. Had I...? It couldn't possibly be.
"Now what was that nonsense about not being able to come?" he said and gave me a naughty look.
"Dean, that was... I just..."
"Well shit, I see you've forgotten how to talk," he said.
Waves of pleasure were still pumping through me, and with each one I was reminded that he was still inside me, all the way inside me, and though he was no longer slamming into me, all I had to do was draw a breath to feel how electrified I was all against his entire length, how ready I was to do ...that again.
It happened.
I had had an orgasm.
And it was nothing like what I thought it would be.
It felt deep and dirty and wild and a little bit insane. It felt like he had dug deep inside me and rattled me loose, pressing hard on all those buttons inside that I never knew I had.
It felt more than good.
It felt bad.
I traced a shaking finger over his collarbone, now glistening with sweat. His face looked different to me now. He had known, somehow. Known what I had needed and given it to me, one dirty word, one heavy inch at a time. I only realized there were tears on my lashes when he leaned forward to kiss them away.
"Ok, you can stop talking now," he teased, and carried on his kissing onto my cheeks. "Besides, now I already know what you want."
He only needed to push in the slightest bit for me come alive again. I wanted more. I wanted another long tumble down that hill.
A dark, deep growl came from his chest as he started to gently, slowly roll his hips again into mine once more.
"Do you think you could come again ...just for me...?" he said. I moaned.
He was thrusting slowly now, but deep, and every part of him was pressed up tightly against every part of me. Astonishingly, the answer was yes. A few deep, full strokes later, I cried out again as I came, but this time, I felt as his body instantly tightened around mine, his jaw clenched and deep inside I could feel him explode. We came together, easily, and it was messy, and hot, and so good it almost hurt.
We lay for a long while in each other's arms, coming back to earth, cooling down, trying to unscramble our brains and untangle our limbs. But the orgasm was still in me somehow, still leftover and buzzing in every atom of my body; the whole world took on a hazy golden color and hummed. I had been unlocked. Switched on. The world was suddenly colorful.















Chapter 12




Myth: It's all about power
Reality: Nobody knows what the hell it's all about

"Dean, I never even knew shops like this existed," I said and gawked at the dozens of chandeliers suspended from the vaulted ceilings with velvet cord.
To even call it a 'shop' felt wrong. It wasn't a boutique either. It was more like a shrine to only the most exclusive forms of consumerism, an altar where only the richest could come to worship, black Amexes in hand and the scent of complimentary martinis on their breath. Look, I love a bit of gloss and polish, but even I was overwhelmed.
"Yeah, I know, it's a bit tacky. But they have pretty things, and I'm getting you something pretty, and that's the end of it," he said and dragged me through over the marble floors and to a little enclave ringed with mannequins who stared at each other's reflections. Each wore something you'd see a celebrity wear to the Met gala, all haute couture ruffles and edgy cutouts.
"Pretty? Damn, I can't believe a dress like this is legal," I said and lifted the lace sleeve of something that can only be described as a jumpsuit for a renn fair street walker from the future. I was in the best mood. I always felt like this, after he'd fucked me - a little cheeky, a little defiant. Buzzing and full of sass... among other things. The last place I wanted to be right now was in this super fancy boutique. The first place? On his cock. Again.
"Well, I agree, that one's a little ...avant garde. Plus it wouldn't show off your ass enough," he said and gave my butt a playful slap. "Now pick something quick so I can take you home," he said, devouring me with his eyes.
I loved that look he gave me. Two parts ravenous animal, one part sheer wonderment. I once saw a clip of the great Sergiu Celibidache conducting Mozart's Requiem, and at the swell, the part where the chorus bursts into that painful, final few bars of the Lacrimosa, he had this look on his face, eyebrows tilted, mouth slightly open, like he had just been blessed with a vision of angels. Well, Dean looked like that. Except on top of everything the angels he saw were hot.
"But everything's so damn colorful," I said, weaving my way through the displays. "Besides, have you ever even shopped with a woman before? I need at least a few hours in here to pick something. Are you in some kind of rush?" I flashed him a goofy grin and rifled through a rack of gaudy sequined numbers.
"Rush? No rush. I told you. I blew off those investors this morning and told them I'd meet with them in the new week."
"Blew them off? Again? Remind me how you make so much money when you're trying to get into my pants 24/7?" I teased and waggled my ass at him, daring him to come get me. He straightened his tie and pulled a serious face.
"How? Well, personal assistants, of course. A gentleman makes time," he said, then ducked as I playfully tossed a beaded clutch purse at him. He propped it up against one of the mannequins, tilted his head to admire the back end of the outfit and then looked at me.
"And you, Nora?"
"And me?"
"Any clients today?"
His face was suddenly more serious.
"Today? No."
"What about tomorrow?"
I looked into his eyes.
Nobody could say a man like him didn't belong in an ultra-exclusive place like this, where the frocks cost as much as a car each and the shop assistants where all ex Ukrainian models. His suit fit him perfectly, and he held himself like he owned the place, like there was no luxury on this planet that he wasn't entitled to or indeed, a little bored of.
I saw all that.
But there was something else in him, something that didn't fit. And it was in those cloudy green eyes of his, a little glint that told you that not everything was quite as it seemed, and the really good stuff was inside. This is what I looked at now. I forgot the glitz, the holidays, the extravagant shopping sprees. I even forget the heady evenings we spent together, and the obscene and wonderful things he knew how to do to my body. For a moment, I just looked at him, at that ...something in his eyes.
"No. No clients at all," I said plainly.
He nodded once and then flipped through the racks with me.
"Good. Now let's pick out something sexy for you so you can drip deliciously off my arm tonight."
"Tonight?"
"Yes, I'm taking you out. A very important party, just a bunch of stuck up old geezers I need to make nice with, but it is terribly important that everyone sees how drop dead gorgeous you are," he said, raising a teasing eyebrow at me.
My skin went a little cold. A million possible situations raced through my mind, roughly half of them involving some embarrassment involving bumping into his father, who had mercifully not decided to 'ruin' me yet as he had threatened that awful day not so long ago.
I swallowed hard.
What an idiot I was. What did I expect, for it to never come up? It's not that I was deliberately trying not to tell Dean. It was just that... I never found the right moment.
I smiled and kept looking at the rows of gowns and cocktail dresses, but my good mood was suddenly feeling a little thin.
"These are all nice, you know, but they have nothing in white..."
He came up behind me and gave me a flirtatious nibble on my neck while wrapping his strong arms round my waist.
"So help me, Nora, if you don't pick something out then I will. One of us has to be pretty tonight, and if you're not up to the task."
I turned around to see that he had donned a massive bonnet, complete with exotic feathers and a piece of black netting hanging down into his eyes. I burst out laughing.
"Woah! Bellissima!" I said and kissed my fingertips, then went to grab a red scarf from a table. "But you just need a little bit of color round your neck, it'll really make your stubble pop, you know?" I said, and laced the silk over his tie with a flourish.
He thrust his chest forward, pouted and got to work modelling up and down in front of the mirrors, hips jutting this way and that way. When he flicked his hair and did a little turn at the end, I was nearly folded double with laughter.
"Stop! Stop! They'll throw us out!" I squealed, but he only swanned over to me with his best bedroom-eyes, wrist hanging limp out in front of him and the other hand on his hip.
"Throw us out? Dahling do you even know who I am?" he pouted. I couldn't stop laughing. The beautiful blonde shop assistant a few feet away did indeed stop to peak over at us.
"Shhh! Yes, dahling, clearly, you're hot stuff, just look at you," I said through giggles.
"Yeah?"
"Oh yeah. I'd tap that," I said and gestured to his jutting hip. He tore off the hat and scarf and took a bold step towards me.
"Then do it," he said, outrageously naughty smile still plastered all over his face.
"Dean! Oh my god you're--"
"Come on, that changing room over there is open," he said and pressed his tall frame against me, pulling me close. He pressed his lips to mine for a kiss but I still couldn't stop giggling. I just knew the shop assistant was ogling us, but when I turned to glance at her she appeared to be on her phone, doing her best to ignore our shenanigans. I guess if you're wealthy enough to shop in here, you get to do what you want without the shop assistants having an opinion about it.
"How long has it been since I've fucked you, hm?" he breathed into my ear. I loved it when he swore. On his tongue, the word 'fuck' somehow became a spell, a magic word that instantly melted me inside and had my legs feeling stupidly weak. I yielded to his kiss and let him breath and nibble his way down my collarbones.
"Probably a whopping two hours," I said, fondly remembering back to this morning in the shower, and the way the water streamed off him and made little braided rivers over his chest.
"Two hours? Unacceptable. I think we need to do it again," he whispered, and tugged me toward the plush changing room to the corner.
"Oh my god, Dean, you're crazy," I moaned, but it was hard to sound very convincing when I was already beginning to ache all over again, my poor body barely recovered from our last romp and yet twitching awake again now, knowing exactly what treatment lay in store for it now. He was all over me again, folding his chest around me in a way completely impossible to resist. He grabbed my hand and pulled me towards the heavy drapes of the changing room.
"I can't believe you're serious," I said, trying to hide my face.
"What? What's your alternative, we do it out here? What a pervert." His smile was so white-hot and delicious I could do nothing but follow along as he dragged me inside, laughing freely.
He had barely shut the drapes of the booth when he immediately started to tear off my dress with his other hand. In a minute I had lifted the hem and wriggled down my soaked panties. We did this so often I felt permanently turned on these days, permanently wet and ready, permanently turned on. He unzipped, released that solid lump from his trousers and turned me roughly to face the wall. His shoe nudged my feet a little wider apart and then he bent his knees to bring the already rock hard tip to my dripping little hole.
And once he had jammed that generous bulk all the way into me, it was suddenly like all the other times we had fucked, suddenly like that first time. My body needed no help remembering what to do, and raced ahead, still hot and sensitive from that steamy time in the shower, from the slow, sweet time by the fireplace, from that truly filthy time in bed that Sunday morning when we did it over and over and over, till our drained, sweaty bodies fell asleep on one another and then woke again at noon for naked croissants on the balcony.
I had discovered the trick to having good orgasms.
Dying a little.
Being completely willing to let it all go, and not giving a fuck, even if just for a few split seconds. It was a new skill I had learnt. And with him, I was getting really, really good at it.
With each easy, gooey thrust up into me, I felt him lift my weight a little and tilt me forward, making my hands spread wide against the mirror in front of me to balance. I loved seeing our reflection; him so much taller and bigger than me, me absorbing each strong plunge of his dominating hips. I loved that no matter how much we did this, no matter how used to him my little pussy became, I hoped that he would always hurt just a little, would always sting slightly like this. I loved that full, open feeing of holding all of him in me at the top of each thrust. But I also loved the resistance, loved the faint hint of pain, like I was always just slightly pushed, just strained further than what was strictly necessary.
When we were done, I buffed the steam off the mirror in front of me, pulled my panties up and gave him a delicious smile as he zipped up and straightened his tie. Fuck, he was a good-looking man. And knowing that I had just had his glorious cock hammering into me right to the hilt made me feel so giddy I had trouble keeping a straight face as he snapped open the drapes and stepped out into the boutique again.
How could I not grin like an idiot, knowing what his cock had just done to me? Knowing that as I walked out there in public I was literally brimful of his warm, thick cum?
If the shop assistant noticed anything, she didn't let on. In fact, she was still on her phone. Slightly embarrassed, I pretended to be interested in a red dress off to the side and hoped she wouldn't notice we hadn't taken anything into the room with us. To my surprise, she came up to Dean, shyly waving her phone at him.
"I know this is going to sound strange, but since you're here, can I ask you a question?" she said. I pricked my ears but pretended to examine the hem of the dress, still feeling the memory of that orgasm convulsing through me. He went over to talk to her. I wanted to leave already.
"It's just, I'm trying to set up this new feature? This device flicking thing?" she said, and dragged her fingers over the screen of her phone. He took it from her and started to tap the screen quickly as she looked on.
"Yeah, what's intuitive to the designers is not always intuitive to regular people like us," he said warmly. He handed her the phone back, took her finger and dragged it over the screen, aiming the phone at a TV screen above one of the changing rooms. Instantly, the woman's phone screen shot up on the TV screen. He flicked her finger down again and the TV went dark again. This new feature had lots of fans excited.
"Thanks!" she said. "You make it look so easy."
"Don't worry, it's nothing."
"Well, thank you. I would never have figured it out on my own," she said, and walked off again. He walked over to me again and looked down at the dress in my hands.
"Is that the one you want?" he said casually. "It's nice."
"It must be weird, right? Having the Portal creator as your father," I said, and threw the dress over my arm. I didn't want to try it on. We walked to the payment counter and he sighed.
"No, not weird at all. It's just nothing. He doesn't feature in my life at all."
"At all? He's like, a household name. Literally everyone has a Portal phone. He's a billionaire. Come on, I'm sure he features a little."
"He doesn't," he snapped, and guided me to the shop assistant who began to ring up the dress.
It was red.
I never wore red.
It was something Jessica Rabbit would wear. It looked slinky up top and tight down below, and had a long, red carpet-style train that the assistant had to wrap carefully in silk tissue and place in a big paper bag. The register showed the price: $ 7500.
I'd have to tell him eventually. It would be the most awkward conversation of my life, but I couldn't wait any longer. I would die if I had to meet his father now, wearing this dress, at the side of his son. Literally, I wouldn't survive the shame.
I watched him pay and decided to myself that I would tell him soon. Tonight even. Before this got even more out of control than it already was. I wasn't imagining things though, it seemed like just the mention of Jeff Cane's name had spoiled Dean's mood, too, and I was dreading having to bring the topic up again.
He handed me the bag and smiled.
"Let's get out of here, beautiful."
"Thank you," I said, taking the bag.
It wasn't gratitude for the dress. It was gratitude for him. For the fact that he had, in his own over-the-top way, quietly turned my life right around. A month ago I had been a dark, sad woman bent on petty revenge and today, I was giggly and goofy and, gasp, about to wear something that wasn't white.
I want to defend myself and tell you, don't jump to conclusions, I wasn't falling for him, it was just a crush, just a bit of fun. I want to tell you that I wasn't being a completely smitten girl in a whirlwind romance that had me forgetting every last thing from my old life. But I think I was. Honestly? I had no idea what was happening to me.
On the drive home, I placed my hand on his knee and stared at the road ahead.
"You seemed uncomfortable back then, when I mentioned your dad."
His thigh tensed under my touch.
"I want you to tell me about him. What's your relationship with him like?"
I had asked him for dozens of things so far. I had tested him in millions of ways, and he had complied with every request of mine, from the silly to the serious. But now he was silent.
"I'll tell you about him one day. But not now," he said, voice hard and strange.
It was the first time he had not given me what I wanted. My heart was in my throat. The old paranoia came back.
Did he know?
I removed my hand and we drove on in silence. I knew right then that something was wrong. But even I couldn't have guessed at just how 'complicated' his kink really was.
A few sequins peaked out from the bag and cast tiny, metallic shimmers on the roof of the car.















Chapter 13




Myth: Men are naturally dominant, women are naturally submissive
Reality: Humans are naturally depraved - do the details even matter?

Before you ask...
No, I didn't tell him.
And yes, I know I'm a complete and utter idiot.
But you have to understand, I just couldn't. He was sweet that night as we relaxed in his library and later started to get ready for the evening. But something was still different. I knew I couldn't ask. I could barely even mention his father, how was I going to confess that I knew him, and not only that, I had kept this information to myself for so long? My little dream with him would be smashed and over before it started. I had no idea what the protocol was. The rule was not to tell a soul about who I saw and why. But every second that went past and I said nothing felt like a lie.
But I said nothing.
It was a private function to celebrate the anniversary of the creation of one of his 'pet projects', as he called them, and the fact that he was happy to step out into that room of people with me at his side made the corkscrew of guilt in my gut twist in even deeper.
Mercifully, I never saw Jeff. Nobody mentioned him.
My mailbox at home was likely filling up with his creepy letters, and I often wondered if his wife still prowled around my home waiting to accost me and beg me to take her deviant husband off her hands. But for that night, I could pretend that none of that had ever happened. I could pretend that my brand new, weeks-long whirlwind relationship with Dean was all that ever was.
We pulled up to my driveway after the dinner was over but he said he was exhausted and had to have an early night. He wouldn't come inside, but kissed me sweetly and told me to call him the next morning. I thought I saw something there in his eyes again, something that flashed away and disappeared the moment I looked closer for it. He simply smiled and waved, and then he was off again. Fair enough, we had seen each other nearly every day for ages now, and I understood he had business to get back to.
I stood for a moment, alone in my blood-red Jessica Rabbit dress in my driveway, feeling the cool night air play with my hair and float across my bare arms. In the stillness, it didn't feel so outrageous to let go and let in a new feeling that had been trying to press its way in for days.
I closed my eyes and let my head fall back. Is this what it felt like, to trust someone? Could this actually be happening to me? This wiggly, warm, totally electrifying feeling I had whenever I thought of him ...could he possibly feel the same for me?
Maybe I had been blessed with a second chance.
I stared out and down into the darkness, out into the night twinkling with distant lights and wisps of dark cloud. I felt the gravity of my old life behind me, back towards the house. 'Mistress Morgan' and everything she stood for felt like nothing more than a dead, shed skin lying around me. Turns out, this sparkling red dress was exactly my style. Turns out, I wasn't broken, but deliciously, wonderfully, beautifully alive and still dizzy with learning all the amazing things my body and mind could do...
I turned to the house.
There was no question. The next time we met, I owed it to him to come clean.
I let myself into the house, kicked off my heels and padded barefoot into the kitchen, not bothering to turn the lights on. I made myself a bowl of cereal, then walked into the living room, thinking that what I needed right now was The Pearlfishers duet at high volume and to put my feet up for a second.
I screamed. The bowl went crashing to the ground. The shape of a human figure sat on the chair by the record player, watching me. I wanted to turn and run but my feet were nailed to the floor. An icy wave passed over me as I realized who it was. This couldn't be happening. Not now.
"Mistress," came a thin voice from the shadow, and the sound made me want to throw up. That wasn't my name. I was Nora. I was nobody's fucking mistress. I tried my best to find words of my own.
"I'm calling the Police," I said, and realized that the closest panic button in the house was in the kitchen where I had just come from. I quickly tried to calculate how long it would take me to run to it now. I didn't even want to think of what would happen after I pressed it.
"Relax, Mistress. You seem afraid."
I couldn't believe what I was hearing.
"You broke into my home," I whispered, astonishing myself that I was even standing here having this conversation at all. All I could think about was that ugly blue mark on his wife's neck. And how it got there. And how suddenly the fact that I'd been ignoring all of that for weeks now seemed like the biggest, stupidest mistake I had ever made.
"Will you calm down? You wouldn't see me."
"You're not my client anymore," I said. I couldn't make out the details of his face but I could just tell he was crawling his eyes all over my dress. All over me.
"You're different," he said. "You look different."
Would he chase me? Would the police arrive before he...?
I had had four drinks this evening, and it was late, and I was tired and I could feel a splatter of spilt milk snaking its way down my ankle. It suddenly seemed clear as day to me. Having just spent a wonderful evening with Dean, all this crap from my past life seemed even more sordid than I remembered. I felt sickened.
"What do you want?" I said coldly.
"You know what I want. You. We were in the middle of something, Mistress, and you disappeared on me. We have unfinished business, you and I."
He was crazy. That was the only explanation. If it seems naïve of me to never have thought this before, well, you can pity me. Something about being without any clients these last few weeks had made me realize just how crazy I myself must have been to ever get this involved with people this messed up.
"I'm telling you one more time, and then I'm calling the police," I said calmly, trying to dig deep to find that bitchy Mistress Morgan voice I used to be so at home in. "You and I are done. Find someone else."
"Name your price."
"I don't need money."
"Who else is there? Drop them and I'll pay you triple what they do."
"I'm not even a Domme anymore. I quit that work."
Here he stirred a little in his seat. Every tendon in my bare feet was coiled and ready to spring to action.
"Good, then nobody else can take your attention."
"The answer is no."
"I don't understand. Do you know how many women would kill for this opportunity?" he said quietly. "You're saying no because you're scared, I get it. But I know you, Mistress. You know me and I know you. That's what makes what we have so special. Give me one good reason why you're running away from the best offer anyone will ever give you?"
I said nothing.
It all became so crystal clear to me, in that moment. I was no longer a tortured, sexually repressed woman who needed to play games and manipulate those who were only slightly more damaged than I was. I was different now, different enough to see that men like Jeff had nothing I wanted anymore, and whatever game I had thought I needed to play here, well, the prize just didn't seem worth much anymore.
One good reason? I had a million. His poor wife was one. The fact that he had stalked and harassed me for weeks was another. And more than that, I was beginning to realize that I wanted something else. Something more. I wanted a life where I wasn't just pretending to be in charge, but really was.
"I don't need a reason, Jeff."
"You don't have one."
I thought about the damning pictures I had of him. The plan to ruin him had been shelved and now it felt weird to think of it again, but would that be my silver bullet to kill this demon once and for all?
"See? You can't think of anything," he said. He stood up and my heart leapt.
"I'm seeing someone," I blurted, wielding the words like a shield. He froze where he stood. I had no idea what possessed me to say it, but he seemed genuinely surprised.
"Who the hell would--"
"It's Dean. It's your son. I can't see you anymore because I'm seeing him, and I love him," I said, the words tumbling out, and once they were said, I was as shocked as he was to hear them.
Love him? Sure, why not. Isn't that the word for the feeling I felt, wrapped in his arms and listening to his breath? Isn't that what people called that feeling of wanting to burst at the thought of spending an afternoon with someone? Yes, dammit, it was love. Why couldn't I be in love with Dean? I could. I was.
The silence around us felt treacherous. I still couldn't make out his facial expression but I didn't need to know that I had said something truly unexpected. I could feel him thinking. Would he come for me? Apologize and leave?
What he did was laugh. Quietly, cynically, like he had just caught me in a trap.
"I didn't think you were this stupid, Nora."
I hated the way he switched between names whenever it suited him.
"I don't know what you--"
"Are you kidding me? Dean? That is fucking priceless," he said, still chuckling.
"I should have told you, but I'm telling you now. I'm sorry, but it's serious, and I'm done now with all this." He took a few slow, menacing steps from out of the shadows and brought his sneering face into the light. It was no more human than it had been a moment ago, draped in darkness.
"Since you can't figure it out, Nora, I'll explain it to you. Like everyone in this dump of a town, Dean is trying his damndest to get a slice of my pie. What do you think a guy like that wants with someone like you, huh? Didn't you think that was a bit suspicious?"
I wanted him to stop talking. To go away.
"You're just trying to--"
"Think about it. What's more likely, that he loves you, or that he specifically went after you to get at me?"
"But... how would..."
"Tell me, what do you even know about the guy, huh?" He rubbed his hand over his face and shook his head. "Fucking priceless. I should have known. He'll stoop to any level, truly."
"He's... Dean..."
"Dean is even sicker than I am, you dumb slut. Ever since he was a kid he's been trying to one-up me. Everything is a competition for him. You're just the newest challenge."
"Dean cares about me, he doesn't even know that you were a client. He's not even a client, he has nothing to do wi--"
"Wait so he's not even paying you?" he said, and slapped his knee. "Wow, he really pulled a number on you, didn't he?"
"Get out!" I snapped.
He stuck his hands in his pockets, stared at my bare feet for a moment, and then made for the door.
"Happily."
The silence after the click of the door closing behind him was deafening. My dress suddenly felt too tight. Too stupidly red.
Could it actually be true?
I looked down to see a few milky drops clinging to the elaborate train. What did I know about Dean, really? That I had fallen in love with him like an idiot after knowing him for a little over a month? My mind spun, but trying to hold all of the last few weeks in my head all at once made me dizzy.















Chapter 14




Myth: Some strange people like to be restrained with chains and cuffs. They like to be hung up on hooks or spread helpless over crosses or metal beams and strapped in with buckles
Reality: Most people's restraints are invisible

The sound was Verdi's Requiem, Dies Irae, playing at eardrum-splitting volume all throughout the house. The shade of lipstick was Kat Von D's "Lolita", a murky mauve, applied thickly and sealed in with a layer plasticky gloss. The outfit was, for once, black. A full Lycra cat suit with a violent looking zip that ran all the way from the crotch to the high neck.
The mission was simple: get control over my circus of a life and make sure that Dean knew just how stupid he had been to underestimate me.
When the doorbell rang, I went to answer it as Mistress Morgan, ready to stab him immediately with a look so vicious I used to charge men for the thrill of getting to be on the other end of it. One glance at me and he was taken aback.
"Nora! Woah, look at you," he said and smiled to come in.
I said nothing. But when I stepped aside and slammed the door behind him, he stopped smiling.
"Is everything--"
"Come to the sitting room," I said, with a voice that made icicles seem warm and soft. He frowned but followed me, and we sat down. I drew out that moment as long as I could. He sat opposite me and waited for me to speak, but I wanted him to sweat it, wanted him to really feel that hideous tension before I cleared my throat and said, "We need to talk."
I had never seen Dean nervous before, but the way his Adam's apple bobbed in his throat let me know that yes, it was possible to put such a man on the back foot.
"You know that I see your father," I said slowly, and glared at him.
The silence around us whined as he tried to find his tongue.
"Don't worry about all that, Nora, I don't care, and besides, you've stopped seeing him, you've—"
"No, you don't understand. I'm not asking for your fucking forgiveness. He came to see me."
"What do you mean?"
I cracked my knuckles and looked down at my manicure.
"He had some interesting things to say about you, Dean."
The Adam's apple bobbed up and then down again. It felt good to see him speechless. To see that look of panic on his face. But he didn't rush to defend himself. In fact, the longer he sat there mute, the angrier I got.
"So, it's all true then? That's your complicated kink? You have some sick fantasy of seducing your father's mistress?" I blurted. The cat suit was tight and constricting, but I still felt like I was about to boil over with rage.
"Please, Nora..."
"Yes or no, just answer me. Were you just using me to get a rise out of your father? I don't care what sick game you were playing, but be honest with me, was anything we did together even real? Were you just using me?" I sucked in my breath and tried to remind myself not to get hysterical. Not to show him any weakness.
He frowned deeply and shook his head from side to side.
"Nora are you kidding? You used me," he said low under his breath.
"Excuse me?"
"Admit that you've been trying to fish for info about my father all along. Are you sure you weren't playing any of your own sick games?" he said and shot me a hard look.
I couldn't believe what I was hearing. He was meant to be groveling now. Apologizing profusely for breaking my heart and begging my forgiveness.
"How dare you..."
"Seriously? Fine, I should have told you. But shit, when were you going to tell me?"
"You deceived me, you deliberately--"
"Oh please, Nora. Just don't. Nobody forced you to do anything. Yes, I knew who you were. I knew you saw my father. It wasn't personal, I just... I'm not proud of it, I guess I wanted to see if I could..."
"Could what? Was it a competition?'
"No, not a competition. But part of the appeal was..."
"I'm not a thing, Dean. I'm not a toy you can steal from somebody. I opened up to you."
"I know, Nora. I'm sorry, but please try to understand."
"You manipulated me. Who the hell are you even? Just a liar? You're just like him!" The effect these words had was staggering. He immediately snapped to attention and scowled at me.
"Don't you dare say that. That's not true. How dare you call me a liar when ...Jesus, Nora. You think you're so dark and mysterious? You're completely transparent, and you're just looking for petty revenge, like me. If I'm a liar then so are you. You hide behind this little dominatrix routine because you're shit scared of playing out in the real world with the rest of us."
"How can you—"
"It's true. Fuck, I know people pay you for this but admit that all you've done is found a way to monetize a mild personality disorder or something. You're not some sex expert, you're just self-absorbed."
His words hit me so hard I think I stopped breathing. But I couldn't cry. I couldn't argue. He was absolutely right. My whole life was a shabby thing held together with tape and paint, just a cheap illusion. Not real, just a two-dimensional image of a confident, sexually free woman that I could hide behind and hope nobody ever came close enough to look and see what I really was. I wasn't even angry. Just shocked.
The look on his face softened.
"Nora, I'm sorry. I don't mean any of that. It's just... I didn't expect for things to pan out this way, to go this far. I was an idiot, it was never meant to be more than an ego boost, a dare. But I never expected to ...feel things for you."
"Bullshit," I spat.
"It's true," he whispered. "You're falling for me too. Admit it."
I looked up to see him standing and walking slowly towards me. Would I kiss him? Would I cry and say sorry and beg him to hold me?
"Dean?"
"Yes?"
"Are you still doing whatever I tell you to do?" I said, avoiding his eyes.
Silence.
"Of course. We had an agreement, didn't we?" he said, his voice kind again. I stood up, straightened my hair and glowered at him.
"Then leave. And don't come back."















Chapter 15




Myth: Everyone is a little bit kinky. All of us have a little darkness in us, a little shame, a little secret desire that would mortify us to show the world
Reality: Actually, this one is one hundred percent true...

Kitchen scissors are probably not the best implement to use when cutting a designer sequinned couture frock into tiny pieces, but it would have to do the trick.
On my hands and knees, I worked with big, hulking chomps of the scissors and butchered that slinky number into smaller and smaller pieces. First I chopped the train off, then cut the whole thing into strips and then, still not satisfied, cut those strips even further into smaller scraps. I briefly tried to calculate how much each scrap was worth, but got bored and kept cutting until it no longer resembled anything but a pile of sparkly red innards.
I tossed the scissors aside, gathered the bundle in my arms and tossed it in the trash. I daubed on some fresh face powder, cracked my neck and got to work on the next task for the day. The landline phone flashed to indicate a message, but I ignored it. If that asshole wanted to apologize, he'd have to make about a million times more effort than that.
I sat down and used the other line to work through my client contact list. I began with Ralph, who nearly went into raptures to learn that his dog cage was once again vacant, and moved my way down the list till I had booked up a full schedule for the next two weeks. Provided there were no cancellations, it was easily almost $60 000 of income. I didn't usually work that hard, but I was rearing to get back into things and forget about my recent little foray into trying to be a normal person.
Two hours had passed by the time I was finished. Finally, it was time for the last and most important task of the day.
I opened my bottom drawer and pulled out a plain manila envelope and stuffed it in my handbag. The time had come to finish what I started. I no longer cared how much that rat reporter offered me this time. I no longer cared about whether my reputation came into it.
Maybe Jeff was right and I was nothing but a whore. Maybe Dean was right and I was nothing but a big bluffing baby. Whatever the case, I still had my trump card, and this time when I played it, I would be getting two servings of revenge for the price of one. I forgave myself for making the error of dropping my guard, but I didn't forgive them for having seen me so vulnerable.
I slipped on my heels, got in the car and headed into town. On the way, I pulled over at a gas station, filled up and then went inside to pay. It was one of those delightfully cheesy old California diners with everything done in mid-century turquoise and a little Cadillac in the logo. Not quite the backdrop for a femme fatale's final devastating move, but it would do. I picked up a chocolate bar and a bottle of Evian and went to the high schooler behind the counter to pay. Her eyes were glued to the TV.
"So what do you think happened?" she said and gestured to the screen. I turned to look. It was the news. Some pulpy murder story or something. I plonked my items on the counter.
"Crazy people being crazy, huh? What's new," I said and pulled out my wallet.
"Yeah, I don't know. This one seems like a pretty big deal. They say Portal's stock price has already halved in just two hours," she said, and turned the volume up.
Portal?
I spun around to look at the screen again.
"An unnamed source has confirmed that the leaked pictures are indeed of Jeff Cane but as of yet there is no indication whether these pictures are connected to last night's murder..."
My wallet fell from my hands.
"Police have cordoned off the Portal founder's multi-million dollar Californian home and investigations are now underway. Cane has declined to comment on what is proving to be a case that's more bizarre by the hour. Details on this breaking story are still unclear but chief of Police Barry O'Neil has stated that the shocking homicide of Elizabeth Cane is a top priority for their department. ABC7's Jenna Watson reports."
Could this be real? The image on the screen was unbelievable: on one side, a censored, candid shot of a plush bedroom splattered with blood, and beside it, a humiliating picture of Jeff Cane - the same as the one I held in my handbag at that very moment.
I swallowed hard.
"Huh, this city is fucked, let me tell you. All kinds of stuff going on behind the scenes, you know. Just goes to show. You wanna know my theory? I think they were both, like, kinky swinger types, wife swapping and that kind of thing, and someone gets jealous, things get out of hand, then boom, some jilted lover kills the wife and leaks the pics for revenge on the husband," the girl behind the counter said, then gave me a knowing wink and waited to see what I thought of her sleuthing skills.
I felt the blood drain from my face.
I quickly paid and stumbled out of the diner, the sounds of the news story still in my head.
A murder.
He had killed her.
Her twisted, begging face was burned into my mind and all I could think about was the fact that she had come to me for help. And now he had actually killed her.
Fuck. Oh fuck.
Dizzy, I collapsed into my car seat and tried to think. Who the fuck had leaked those photos? Who else even had them? I hadn't given anything to the reporter. Not only was my little revenge plot rapidly crumbling before my eyes, something more sinister was taking shape in its place. This was bigger than I knew. Somebody else had wanted to hurt Jeff Cane, and worse, somebody had killed his wife. I wanted to throw up.
I raced back home, locked the door, and holed myself up in the library. I needed to think, and fast. On a whim I noticed the flashing red light on the landline phone and pressed the button. Though I was still angry as hell with him, the thought of hearing Dean's voice now was a strange comfort.
"Nora Smith, this is detective Brady of the California PD. I'm calling with regards to the Cane investigation. Call me back as soon as you can. You'll need to come down to the station and answer a few questions."
* * *

You'll find BOOK 2 & 3 in the "Mind Games" trilogy in the table of contents!

(... along with a special deal on my "Bad Boys After Dark" boxed set, containing over half a MILLION words of panty-melting bad boys!)














Never Look Back











Blurb

When they kidnapped her, something dark inside me came bubbling to the surface.
I knew I wasn't afraid anymore. I wasn't going to ignore my past any longer.
This time, I would fight...

Chapter 1 - Leo
It was the kind of diner that morphed into a sleazy bar the longer it stayed open. The kind where, somehow, as 7pm rolls by, the waffles and burgers give way to beers and shots, the lights dim and some kids start playing around with the old juke box that has a handwritten "NO BRIAN ADAMS" sign taped to it.
In the past, places like this had always felt like home to me. But these days, I just felt like an expat returning from a long trip away and realizing that I no longer understood the local customs as well as I thought I did.
I took a sip of my beer and tried hard not to pay any mind to the pair of girls in the corner, who'd been trying to catch my eye for the last twenty minutes. They were hot, in a kind of non-threatening way. Couldn't have been older than twenty-two or twenty-three. In the past, I would have noticed the coy giggles, the cheap Girl's Night Out heels and tight dresses, and I would have thanked my stars and bounced over there in a heartbeat, ready with more drinks and all my best bullshit anecdotes lined up for the evening.
But now, looking at them, I just felt ...tired. Besides, now there was Sophia. Sweet, kind, sane Sophia.
I checked my watch.
Flicking my eyes to the door and scanning the street outside through the windows, I wondered whether this was some elaborate joke. Did I really live in a lame action movie where the hero gets a mysterious message, summoning him to his local greasy spoon for a shady business proposal?
I took another sip.
Not likely.
I checked my watch again, downed the last foamy mouthful of beer and stood up to leave. The girls pricked their ears. I made eye contact with the prettier one, and she froze and held my gaze across the room as I fished out some cash and slammed it on the counter.
Look, I'm not vain. I don't give a shit, actually. But I do know how to play the field.
I know that girls will talk for eons about how they want a guy who's kind, and treats them right, and is emotionally available and loves children and all that other crap. But take it from a traditionally hot guy out in the real world: what they really want is a rock-hard chest. A square jaw. A guy who looks at them in a way that makes them feel that sex is just an inevitability. A guy who doesn't ask. Just claims.
For old time's sake, I toyed with the idea of traipsing over there and seeing how long it would take for them to both be begging hard for it, to be competing with each other to out-slut one another.
I thought about it, but as a conventionally hot guy who knows exactly how to play the field ...let's just say that I've realized that it's not a game I want to play anymore. I gave them a flirty smile - call it charity - and turned on my heel to leave.
"Leo Bianchi?"
I spun to see a man holding out his hand to me. I looked him up and down. A greasy, balding guy in a baggy suit with a watch that clattered on his hairy wrist and a shirt that looked like it was meant to be whiter.
"You're late," I said, and shook his hand.
When he laughed, he threw back his head, then he slapped me hard on the shoulder.
"Yeah, kid, he said you'd be plucky!" The man eased the bulk of his middle-aged form onto one of the bar stools. "Come on, sit down. Bianchi? My mother knew some Bianchis. You know Maria and Ed? Down in Boston?"
I could hear the girls behind me pick up their conversation again. I shook my head and gingerly took a seat beside him.
"No? Pity," he said with a kind of fatherly disappointment, then ordered a beer and took a good few minutes to adjust his gut, smooth down his slacks and pass his dark eyes over me a few times.
"You look tense, kid. Relax," he chuckled.
"What's this about?"
He took a long sip of his beer, sucked his top lip and then frowned at me. "So, you starting up a nice little business for yourself, huh? Imports?"
My face prickled. The longer I stared at his greasy, rubbery face the more certain I was that either he had made some terrible mistake in asking me out here. Or worse, that he hadn't.
"Yeah, so?" I said.
I had finally generated enough momentum to launch an import operation, bringing in Fairtrade coffee beans and other produce from Costa Rica for boutique coffee merchants all along the west coast. Funny thing, though, the company had only been officially registered for a few weeks, and basically nobody knew about it yet. Except Sophia, maybe.
"Well, we're always looking for uh, you know, enterprising personalities..." he said, staring straight ahead.
"We?"
"Let's call it a business offer. We get a brand spanking new channel to push our product, you get to offset those nasty import duties..."
I leaned back in my seat.
"You got the wrong guy," I said, plainly.
He frowned at me again.
"Oh you're the right guy, buddy. Little Leo? Came up with Lucille and her kids back in Bay Ridge?"
I broke out into a cold sweat.
"Who are you? How do you know me?"
"I don't know you pal, but Uncle Vito does, and he told me you'd be interested."
My heart nearly stopped.
"Haven't heard that name in a long time," I said quietly. "Thanks, but no thanks," I managed to say, and got up to leave. The fat man extended a hand and pulled me back down with surprising strength.
"What? You're leaving? I haven't even finished my beer. No manners, I swear," he grumbled under his breath. "And you haven't even heard Vito's offer yet." He took another long swig, irritatingly confident that he had caught my attention.
Vito Roselli was an evil man.
A notorious man.
I had seen his hard, scarred face in grainy photos in the papers. On the news. Vito was the guy that everyone knew was crooked, but could do nothing about. He was the big bad wolf in a fairytale I wished didn't exist; a world I was no longer a part of. For Vito, there was no right and wrong. No good and evil. There was only power. Those who had it, those who didn't. End of story. And just hearing his name had my hackles up and my fists clenched.
"I'm not interested in any 'offer', sorry. I barely knew the guy, and that was a long, long time ago. I've moved on now. Things are looking good for me..."
"Aw, isn't that nice?" he laughed.
I glared at him.
"And how did you get to where you are now, anyway, huh?" he asked, gesturing to me with his beer glass.
"I worked hard, I busted my--"
"Uncle Vito helped you," he said, cutting me off.
"Bullshit."
"You took his help quickly enough once before, that's what he says anyway."
"That's ridiculous, I was a kid..."
"You were eleven. Sounds old enough to me."
I stood up, face hot.
"I had no choice. I had to do what I could to survive." I wanted to hit him. I hadn't hit a man in more than a decade, but I could sure make an exception for this asshole. He was chuckling now under his breath, shaking his head.
"And what about all those little girls, huh? What about their survival? They were just kids too, you know," he said mysteriously, and stared blankly ahead of him again.
I felt dizzy. I sat down again.
The diner around me had emptied out. I felt like the blood in my veins had turned thin and was emptying out, too. I suddenly felt unsure of my ability to stand upright.
"Those ...those are not just rumors?" I stuttered. Once I had spoken I realized how badly I didn't really want him to answer. Again, he threw back his head and broke out into mocking laughter that made his immense gut wobble.
"Hey, pal, don't give me that look. I'm not saying anything. I'm just saying, you're being stupid if you think you're innocent somehow. You know what my grandma always says? She says to be human is to be guilty. Smart woman. We all got blood on our hands, pal. Every one of us. Including you."
"What are you getting at?"
His beer glass was drained, and he watched with boredom as the wet foam slid back down the empty sides again.
"I'm not getting at anything buddy. I'm just saying don't play like you're some good little citizen now or something." He stood up, threw some coins onto the counter, burped quietly, then cast a weary gaze back out onto the street. "Uncle Vito will be in touch. My advice? Don't be such a rude fucker when you talk to him."
"I'm not talking to anyone," I said.
He gave me a joking salute and smiled wryly at me.
"Oh, and by the way, happy birthday," he said, and turned to leave.
"How do y—", but he was already halfway out the exit. The bell on the door tinkled as it swung open and shut, and in an instant I was alone in the diner. I checked my watch. It had taken me more than two decades to run away from my past. And now, in the course of five minutes, it had all caught up with me.
Chapter 2 - Sophia
And what a happy birthday it was. The fact that we both shared the same birthday was only one of the things that made me think that my life with Leo was ...fated somehow.
Leo was the only other person I had ever met with completely heterochromic eyes. And while I was blue in the left, brown in the right, he was brown in the left, blue in the right. We were similarly quiet, soulful people. We both loved cats. We shared the same favorite things and had the same pet peeves. We had only known each other for a year or so. But when that year was so cram-packed full of signs and omens, did it matter?
The stars were aligning for me. We were both turning thirty, my massage school was finally picking up steam and his business was finally taking shape. Once I lined up one part of myself with the corresponding part of Leo, it was like all the other pieces could more easily fall into place. I had spent the first six months of our relationship looking over my shoulder, wondering what freakish cosmic error had gifted me such a perfect guy, and the other six months in dumb awe at how lucky I was to get that gift.
It was really all coming together for me.
Finally.
I had a cute condo, a job I adored, two precious kitties and a smoking hot boyfriend who doted on me. And I was going to show him tonight just how thankful I was to have in my life...
The timer pinged and I sprung to action, taking the baked salmon out from the oven with gloved hands and delicately balancing the pan on the stove top.
He'd walk in, I'd waltz over in my new silk dress and hand him a glass of champagne. Then, he'd come inside, kiss me deeply with his gorgeous, pillowy lips, and I'd whisk him over to the sitting room where the starter canapes would already be laid out. I'd wish him a happy birthday; give him his gift (a cute pair of platinum cufflinks with our shared birthstone - peridot) and then he'd probably give me mine (a signed vintage copy of The Glass Forest - I had peaked so I already knew what it was) and then we'd kiss some more.
Then, we'd have our baked salmon and honey-glazed baby carrots, and after that, dessert would be ready, and then we'd snuggle on the couch and I'd tell him about the new therapist who had signed up to work at the center, and then ...well, I wanted that next part to be spontaneous.
The thing about Leo is that he's not at all what he seems. He looks like a Calvin Klein model, like a classic High School football jock, all chiseled face and smoldering eyes and pecs that strain shirts and get girls in the vicinity to lose their train of thought mid-sentence.
He was, to put it simply, hot. And yet ...deep down he was a different creature all together.
Leo had a mind like a sword. He was a sharp thinker, a quick joker and had a personality that felt like a coiled spring - always straining a little with energy, always waiting to burst.
He was a good man. He was kind. He treated people well. He was emotionally available. He loved children. It was almost too good to be true.
I paced around the living room.
He was a little late this evening, which was weird. I felt a few thin prickles of sweat under my arms. I cursed and hurried to the bathroom, added a triple layer of antiperspirant and checked my reflection for the millionth time that evening.
We'd have sex, of course. Of course we would. It was his birthday. It was my birthday. That's what a young, healthy, happy young couple like us does on their birthdays.
We hadn't, though. Not for a while. In fact, it had been more than two weeks already. It's not that I was bored. Not at all. I mean, getting a little older in life, and given the fact that we had known each other for as long as we had, and the fact that both of us were really focusing on our careers ...actually, a few times a month was perfectly normal.
I went into the bedroom.
Scented candles, freshly laundered sheets, flower petals, massage oil. Perfect. I smiled and closed the door again. I was satisfied. If all of this didn't make me the perfect girlfriend, I don't know what would.
I had never admitted to Leo - had never told anyone before, actually - about how important it was for me to 'fix' my issues with sex. That's why those scented candles meant a lot. The rose petals meant a lot.
For a long time, sex was something unhealthy for me. A kind of drug, in fact. Just something dirty I was compelled to do, and shame-filled, because I was desperate and needed my fix. My therapist had called it 'risk-taking behavior'. My foster mother had called it my 'death wish'. I had simply called it 'hunger'. I had always indulged like someone starving at a banquet. I won't say I didn't enjoy myself. But at the end of the day, it never satisfied me. Not really.
But today, on my thirtieth birthday, things were different for me.  I had wrestled my demons, built a life I was proud of and learnt to marry sex and love together, like it's supposed to be. I had convinced a gorgeous, well put together man to love me and now I would never go hungry again.
I went to the kitchen to check on the salmon. It was getting cold.
"Baby...?"
I heard the front door unlock, then spun around when I realized Leo was home, then bound into the living room to line up the champagne glasses and then into the hall to throw my arms around his neck and greet him with a big, sloppy kiss.
"Happy birthday!" I yelled, and he smiled warmly, unwinding his scarf and kicking off his shoes.
"Come inside, come inside!" I said and pulled him into the living room, handed him a glass of champagne and toasting him with a grin.
"To us!" I said, and he laughed and took a nervous sip.
"Wow ...you didn't have to get us champagne."
"That's not all I got," I said, and quickly revealed his gift with a flourish. He took it, unwrapped it, and looked at it with a smile that was polite, but not overwhelmed with joy or anything. Fine, it was a bit of a practical gift; I'd give him that.
"You know, for your meetings and stuff. When you meet up with investors and things like that."
He set them to one side.
"Just kiss me" he said, and soon my head was cradled in his strong hands. I giggled and he kissed my smiling mouth.
"You taste like beer," I said.
"No, that's talking, baby, I want you to be kissing..." He pulled me in for another kiss. I giggled and kissed him. His lips were sweet and soft and silky and delicious.
"But the salmon is getting cold!" I said, pulling out of his grasp to dash off into the kitchen.
He followed me slowly to the oven and watched me with a quizzical expression, then came up behind me and laced his arms around my waist, nuzzling his warm breath into the crook of neck.
"The salmon can wait," he purred.
I laughed and slapped him away.
"No, it can't, it's already icy cold. I've also made these special honey-glazed carrots, too, they have cognac in the sauce, isn't that fancy?"
"Baby," he laughed, "step away from the spoon. The salmon can wait." He took both of my hands in his.
A lump gathered in my throat to see him do it. It wasn't what I thought it was, I knew it, it was too soon to expect that, of course. I knew not to get too excited and all, but I did, I admit it did make me think of him, you know, proposing.
I smiled at him. He smiled back. God, did he know how to smile at a girl.
He leaned in for a kiss and then he reached one of his oversized hands to rest on the fold of my hip. Still holding the dripping spoon, I kissed back and then realized: he was hard. He pressed his hipbones into mine and groaned softly as he sucked my lower lip, then squeezed my waist.
I sighed. "Ah, so that's what you want..."
He started to kiss up and down my neck, warm breath and cool, wet kisses, pinning me against the kitchen cupboards with his broad, strong frame.
"No, no, please, tell me about these carrots," he laughed. "This beautiful woman standing right in front of me is just a distraction, you know, what I really want is a piece of those damn carrots..."
I slapped his arm. I tried to put the spoon on the counter without making any mess.
"I love you, Sophia," he breathed, and collapsed warm onto me. He seldom said those words. Not like that anyway.
He dragged me off to the bedroom.
"The salmon..."
"Fuck the salmon."
He turned on the bedroom light, looked momentarily surprised by the strewn rose petals, but instantly grabbed me and laid me roughly down on top of them.
His touch felt warm. Familiar. Safe. I let my head fall back a little and closed my eyes as his heavy hands pawed over me. To be honest, I wasn't terribly in the mood. It was late, I was tired from work, and I just wanted us to have a nice time together. But it was his birthday. I pulled him down and planted a big kiss on his lips and soon he had wriggled out of his shirt, and then began to peel mine off, too.
"Ouch," I said, and moved his leg to stop it from pinching at the skin of my knee.
"Oops, sorry. You OK?"
I smiled at him. We kissed again, this time more gently. We had a smooth, happy rhythm, an old routine that we both knew well by now. It worked for us.
He turned me over onto my back and in one smooth movement had gently pulled apart my legs. He got to work, doing just what he knew I liked. Slow, unrushed. Respectful. Communicative.
"A little harder," I said. He went a little harder. I tried to close my eyes and sink deeper into the moment, and soon I found it: that delicious, hot sensation welling up juicy and wet inside me. I ground my hips and smiled to myself. Here we go. I buried my fingers in his thick, sandy hair and ground my now-swollen clit against his generous tongue. He moaned and lifted my hips up to him, working over my body with smooth, syrupy motions, slowly licking me into a frenzy. I could feel his thick cock brush against my naked leg. I squeezed my eyes shut and let myself get carried away.
"Baby I want you inside me," I said at last, which is our usual cue for him to flip me over onto my belly, tilt up my ass cheeks and kneel over me so he can slide his cock in and down into me, pinning me into the bed and pouring his body weight down into me as I cradle the pillows.
He did exactly this. I could no longer see the toned V of his torso or the thick interlocking muscles of his biceps as they flow into the veins of his forearms and wrists, but I could now feel them.
Splaying my legs wide to let him in deeper, he plunged down and in, down and in, each time sinking to the hilt into me and lifting my body slightly off the bed with each upward thrust, grinding against some deep, sweet spot inside me that always, without fail, made me come hard and long.
Something about the pressure of his cock inside me, something about how I was effectively pinned by him, held firm under his body, something about feeling the muscled flat of his abs against my upturned ass ...it always did things to me.
But not today.
He slid in deep and pulled out slow again, in deep and then out slow, and I knew he was relishing the sight of me, relishing watching his dick melt into my body and emerge again, slick. I knew he liked that. I knew he liked grabbing a handful of ass and pulling back to reveal that sweet, naughty place where we connected. It felt good. Of course it felt good. But ...not that good.
I felt myself staring at the unlit candle on the bedside table, and feeling ...not bored, exactly. No, I wasn't bored, that wasn't how I was at all. But I wasn't anything.
I squeezed my eyes shut and tried to focus on the sweet words he was now breathing into my ear, as he folded forward and rested his heavy chest all along the length of my back. Ordinarily, I'd have come already. I'd have clenched down hard against his thrusting cock and waited helplessly as the waves of my orgasm pumped through my hips and shook me, and he'd wedge in deeper, growl with satisfaction, squirt inside and then collapse on me, sweat slicking our bodies together.
But not today.
I turned my head to the side and caught his eye. My long brown hair draped over my blue eye as I peered up at him. Mouth open, sideways smile on his face, he gazed down lovingly at me, and all at once, without losing eye contact, his face twisted and contorted.
"Fuck ...baby, I'm..."
I thrust up my hips to meet him and quicken the pace.
"Come baby," I mumbled into the pillow.
He gripped my ass cheeks hard and clenched his jaw, and I watched as his pecs and ab muscles rippled and tightened as he lost control. He ploughed deeper into me, roared out loud and rammed one, then two, and finally three hot spurts of cum into me, pulling out with a shudder on the last thrust and collapsing into relived giggles on my back.
"Fuck yes... I've been waiting all day to do that..." he cooed into my ear.
I twisted over and embraced him, and we held each other a little as his breath became regular and the red flush disappeared from his chest.
"But you...?"
"I'm fine," I said quickly.
"You didn't..."
"Nah, it's OK, I'm just tired," I said, and tried to avoid his gaze. Sure, I was a little annoyed that he had blustered in, used to me to get off and only now was considering what I wanted out of the deal. But that was silly. I had nothing to be unhappy about. Nothing at all.
"You don't want..." he said and started to trace his fingers back to the inside of my thigh.
"Baby, no, I'm fine" I said and sat up quickly. I needed to clean up.
"Ok, well, do you wanna have some salmon and carrots?" he said and gave me a goofy, lopsided grin. I laughed, leaned forward and gave him a big, loud kiss on his forehead.
"Yeah, there's dessert, too," I said and we got up and scrambled for our clothes.
We went back into the kitchen and chatted and kissed and started to heat up the food again. For some reason, I no longer had much of an appetite, though.
Chapter 3 - Leo
"Leo! Oh my god, Leo, thank you so much!"
Groggy, I peeled my eyes open and rubbed them, trying to find the source of the sound. Sophia's shrill voice came from somewhere else in the house. I sat up in bed, the morning light streaming onto the crumpled pillows beside me, and looked down the hall. The two cats, rolled up in the duvet with me, each blinked one eye at the noise and then went back to sleep.
"Sophia?"
It had been a strange night. Confused, I got up, went down the hall and saw her stooping at the front door, bending over to fuss with something on the floor.
She turned around, a giant bowl of extravagant flowers in her arms, and a huge smile plastered on her face.
"You got me flowers! Leo, they're beautiful!"
She waddled up to me, leaned in close so that the lilies pressed a bit of yellow powder onto my bare chest, and gave me a chaste peck on the cheek.
But I hadn't sent her any flowers.
I sat, staring at her for a while, eyebrows kinked.
"I'll go and put these in some water" she said, and made her way to the kitchen.
Just as I started to wonder if they had delivered flowers to the wrong girl, my phone buzzed from inside the room. I went to get it.

Wish your girl a happy birthday from me

I stared in horror at the message from a number I didn't recognize. I heard Sophia opening and closing cabinet doors in the kitchen. I swiftly closed the bedroom door behind me and stood with my back to it. Then I hit "dial" and held the phone to my ear, fingers shaking with rage.
"Hello?"
"Who the hell is this?" I hissed. I could almost hear a smile through the phone line.
"What? You don't recognize me? It's your old friend," the voice said, so casual it seemed sinister.
"Uncle Vito?"
"What, you think it's the Easter bunny?" he laughed drily.
I swallowed so hard it was nearly painful.
"I'm not interested in any deal or any arrangement or anything. I haven't seen you in years."
"So? Family's family."
"You're not family. Jesus," I mumbled.
I couldn't shake the images I had seen of him in the media, the snapshots of bloody murder scenes, the laundering accusations, the corruption. And now he was here, in my shaking hands. In my bedroom.
"In any case, I'm down a few men. What can I say, loyalty is thin on the ground these days. I need some new blood. Good men. I need someone without any history. Someone I can trust."
Had he always had that ridiculous TV gangster accent? For some reason, it sounded so much thicker now than I remembered it, all those years ago. Those years when I was so desperate I had clung to anything that looked like a solution. Even if that thing was none other than Vito Roselli.
"No," I said, and did nothing to fill up the silence after it. He grumbled into the line.
"OK, kiddo, look. You're a businessman, right? I know you understand money. So I'm going to put this in terms you'll understand. How much do you want?"
I heard a cupboard door slam again as Sophia rummaged around in the kitchen, completely unawares. I had to end this call.
"I don't care about money," I said, looking at Sophia's crumpled underwear lying on the floor. "I said no. The past is the past. I've moved on." I couldn't even imagine what a guy like him could want from someone like me.
"Ah ...it's the girl?"
My fingers tightened around the phone.
"You leave her alone."
Silence.
I knew what Vito had done. Everyone knew. And I knew what he was capable of doing. But I didn't give a shit.
"And if you ever come around to my house again I'll personally come after you myself and so help me y--"
I was cut short by his amused laughter.
"Kid! Kid, relax! Ha, you always were like that, weren't you? So feisty. Man, I remember now," he said, still laughing. My face burnt.
"Baby?" Sophia yelled from the kitchen. "Baby, do you know where that vase is? Not the round one but the long, tall one?"
"I don't know! Just a second!" I yelled, covering up the phone for a moment, then leaning in to speak again.
"Don't fucking go near her."
"Listen, Leo. I'm not gonna do anything to your girl. Fuck. In any case, if she really knew who you were, she'd leave on her own, right?"
I could hear the smile in his voice again.
"I'm a different person now," I whispered.
"She doesn't know about you, does she?"
"Doesn't know what? I didn't do anything wrong."
"You know what the trouble with the younger generation is, Leo? It's that you guys only know how to take. Only ever on the lookout for what you can get out of people. But when it comes to making a contribution? Well..."
I was stunned. Vito Roselli was lecturing me about contribution. And more stunning than that, I wondered if he could possibly be right.
"I was just a kid."
"And now you're a man. You got a girl, I get that. But I'm not asking for favors here, Leo. I don't like saying it, you know I don't, but you would have been dead in the streets were it not for me, and don't you forget it."
I didn't know what to say. Was I really going to be bullied and blackmailed for something I did more than twenty years ago, as a child? My head spun.
"But baby, did you move it or something?" Sophia yelled again, but this time I could hear her voice getting louder as she approached the bedroom.
"Baby...?"
"Fine, I'll do whatever you want, just don't ever fucking call me again, I'll call you," I spat and hung up, then tossed the phone onto the bed.
I stepped back from the door and she opened it.
"Who ...who were you talking to?" she asked, cocking her head to one side.
"Nobody," I said and gave her a kiss. "The cats. I was talking to the cats. I saw that vase under the sink, it's right at the back," I said, and walked off to the kitchen before she could see how shaken I was.
Chapter 4 - Sophia
I lit some incense, blew at the band of fragrant smoke a little till it wobbled in the air, and then gently placed the burner off to the side. I shook my hands, and cracked my neck. I walked over to the stereo and adjusted the volume of the music - or "space whale music", as Leo liked to call it - and took a deep, cleansing breath, feeling my ribcage open slowly and then knot back closed.
Good.
The body is a temple, you see. An arena where we play out the dramas of our existence, an altar where all the magic unfolds. For the first half of my life, my body had been nothing but a dumping ground. A trash can. And it never stops seeming like a miracle to me how it still works today, even after all the damage I've inflicted on it.
I slid open the Japanese paper doors and poked my head into the waiting room.
"Emily?"
A pert girl with a blonde ponytail looked up at me and smiled. It's important to make sure the first client of the day is one you really enjoy. I waved her in and she came into the massage room. She had a strong, lean body, but she was riddled with pain and had been since the first day I met her.
She would come in some days and tell me that she finally understood that the crunchy knots she felt in her neck were the crystalized words of criticism from her mother when she was growing up. Or she'd tell me about a dream she had while I worked on the pressure points all up and down her outer leg. Or sometimes we'd work on opening up her breathing a bit more, making sure that she was sending oxygen to her legs, which were now healing and functional even after dozens of doctors told her she'd never walk again.
Emily settled onto the table and I began to work on the muscles around her flanks and spine.
"You're feeling really fluid today," I said, and marveled at how she seemed to be melting under my very fingertips, a far cry from the usual ten minutes we'd have to spend to get her to loosen up.
She giggled. "Well, let's just say I've met another 'bodyworker' recently."
My hands paused on her skin.
"You've...?"
"I know, it's a bit sudden, and I'm feeling really giddy about the whole thing, but remember that guy I mentioned? Andrew?"
"The programmer guy?"
"Yeah, him! Well, it's going really well, actually..." she giggled again. I could almost feel her blushing.
"Emily, that's amazing."
"I know ...he's just so ...so..."
It was like her body actually shivered and pulsed underneath my fingertips as she struggled to find the right words.
"He just ...touches me, you know? I can't really describe it. It's so much more than sexy. He just ...he has this way of setting me completely on fire."
I smiled and continued rolling and stroking my hands over her body, working more deeply into her tissues.
"Well, it sounds like it's working for you, you have almost no tension back here!"
She laughed.
"Honestly, at the rate we're going he's going to paralyze me again or something, I swear... Maybe I should forget about appointments with you and just make sure he's regularly working the tension out, if you know what I mean."
I winced.
"Oh, don't worry, I'm just joking. I'll always keep coming back to you. You're the expert on these things, after all. But you said it once before, sensuality is important in life..."
I tried to pretend that she hadn't hurt my feelings. I rolled and kneaded further, letting the conversation drop.
"Ouch!"
I pulled my hands back.
"You're ...you're being a little rough," she said and laughed nervously.
She was right.
I was relieved when our session was over and I waved her goodbye. I blew out the incense, turned off those godawful screeching whales and tried to gather myself for a second. I had never hurt a client before. Ever. Not in my training, not in the few years I had run this center. Never. I was the girl with the golden hands, the little lost waif who took a vicious past of addiction and poverty and turned it all around with nothing but patchouli massage oil and a clear mind.
So what the hell was going on with me?
I exhaled loudly and checked my watch. I was probably just tired. Leo had been acting weird, but I couldn't put my finger on what it was exactly. And why was I jealous of some girl who was in the throes of new lust ...didn't I already have the jackpot with Leo? Still, it nagged at me as I stripped the bed and started to prepare for the next client. Sure, Leo made me feel good. But did he make me feel that good? Like, so good I wanted to giggle and gush to strangers about it?
That was the real problem right there.
The last time we had sex, it was just weird. Not boring exactly but ...I tossed the sheets aside and took another deep breath. No, no I had to be honest. Sex with my six foot two, insanely muscled, intelligent, emotionally aware and devoted boyfriend was boring.
I absentmindedly changed the music - or 'hippie forest jams', according to Leo - and chewed my nails a bit.
I would never admit it to a soul, but years ago I actually had felt that crazy sexual energy, that touch from another human that seemed to almost literally set me on fire. Too bad it was from the long-forgotten string of abusive boyfriends that carouselled in and out of my life when I was at my absolute lowest.
I shook the thought out of my mind and went to look at my phone.
Huh. A message from him.

Something very important I want to discuss with you tonight. Come home early if you can. I'm making us dinner.

I must have been crazy to doubt him. How the hell could I have an issue with the best partner I'd ever had, with the first guy in my world who offered to treat me like more than just something to take advantage of? I felt a pang of guilt for reminiscing about a past I had sworn to never go back to.
I was lucky to have Leo. And I would do whatever it took to make sure that he never understood quite how broken I was before I met him. I replied to the message and started to unfold another sheet for the bed.
Growing up in foster homes, getting lost in the system, I was surrounded on all sides by people addicted to one drug or other. But as far as I can see, the most dangerous drugs are those that are a little harder to see, hard to even think about clearly. The truth? It wasn't all that difficult to drop my raging heroin addiction. And sure, it was tricky to find work and get back on my feet, but not impossible. The greatest challenge of my life wasn't cutting my addiction to helplessness or the junk food I funneled in every day or the booze or the painkillers. Relatively speaking, that was all easy to shirk off, when I wanted to.
The difficult addiction, the really evil drug, was invisible for the most part. My caseworker wrinkled her top lip and called it a 'sex addiction'. And maybe it was. But it was something else. Things I could swallow, and smoke tweaked the molecules in my brain and body till I felt good. Alcohol numbed, cigarettes soothed. Four big macs in a row was my equivalent of a warm hug from someone who gave a shit about me. But sex? I never really understood why I was as drawn to it as I was.
Sex was the one addiction I had never truly triumphed over because, frankly, I was never really sure what it did to me. On a molecular level. On a spiritual level. I never understood its hold on me. Taking drugs is one thing. I know how to take them, and I know how to quit them - after all, I've done it often enough! But sex? The things I've done? They're a different kettle of fish.
I've been out of control on this substance or that pill. I've blacked out. I've forgotten things, and I've been desperate and made every poor decision you could dream of. But with sex ...well, sex was the one demon I still hadn't completely exorcized. It still hovered around the edges of my nightmares. Still clung all sticky and seductive in my daydreams sometimes, and now it was threatening to take the first real relationship I had and tear it to pieces.
But I wouldn't let it. Leo was far too important to me. I hadn't come all this way to gripe about a slightly less than ecstatic sex life. This was the real world, and I wasn't done pulling myself up my bootstraps just yet.
I carried on down the appointment list. Luckily, my last client for the day cancelled at the last minute, leaving me to head home early and see about this 'very important' something that Leo wanted to discuss. When you're a couple, you have to have 'chats'. You have to get in touch with your feelings, to express them. For someone like me, you can't overdo this kind of thing, obviously. So, fine.
But on the drive back home a strange memory popped into my mind. I thought of Rhonda, a woman I had met the very first time I went to rehab. She had been clean for more than five years and fancied herself something of a cheerleader, playing mother hen to all the wayward kids in the center who couldn't make it to next Friday, nevermind five years.
I remembered her kind yet grizzled face, and the way she pursed her lips tight and stared right at you, right through you. And I'll never forget what she said to the group one afternoon. She sighed and said, "Nobody else will tell you this, but you need to hear it. Addictive substances are good. Real good. If they weren't, would any of you be here now? The world after drug addiction is safer. It's more sane. It's stable. But it'll never be as good as being high, not even close. That's the truth. The sooner you can mourn that and let it go, the better. If you don't, you'll always keep coming back to it."
Chapter 5 - Leo
I didn't know it at the time - I couldn't have known it at the time - but it was the turning point of my life. The day on which my whole being swiveled and changed direction, forever. That day, the day I ran so hard I felt my whole world would burst open, was the skinny, malnourished line between one era of my life and another...
The longest up until that time had been three days. Three and a half depending on how you count it. The sun rose like a little ball of syrup freeing itself from the horizon and I thought calmly: today will be the day that I die.
I felt that kind of cold you get after you've been really cold for a long time already. The kind of cold that happens when you think something awful's definitely starting to happen to your body, and all you can think of is meat in a freezer, and how you're finished, you're really done for ...well, I felt the kind of cold that happens to you three hours after that feeling.
I walked up and down the backstreets for a bit, found nothing there. So I decided, I had to do it. There was no other way. I kicked a can up and down the tarmac for a while to get my nerve up and then found a house that looked broke enough that I knew there wouldn't be too much security going on inside. I wiped my nose on my sleeve and double checked that nobody was around.
I busted into a rundown apartment that opened back onto a dim alleyway. It was cold enough that I didn't feel the broken glass scratch me as I slunk inside.
I could feel my heart in my ears, and thought how funny it was to have my heart there, and not in my chest, like normal. It was an old lady's house, kind of nasty, but I was surprised to find a ton of jewelry and shit in her dresser drawers. I ripped it all out, stuffed it in my pockets, and hauled some food from the kitchen and got out of there.
I turned to run and that's when I heard it: kind of like an animal. Someone breathing hard. My eye catched a weird shape in the shadows a few yards into the alley. Two shapes. Some guy and a ...woman. I stopped and stared. She was twisted all strange, folded over and kind of huffing and puffing, and the guy was behind her, slapping his hips against hers. It made me feel strange, watching them like that.
The guy turned and saw me standing there, stolen old lady jewels dangling out my pockets, and two hands full of stolen bread. Shit. And then I saw who it was.
Vito Roselli.
I knew the face instantly. Everyone knew Vito. That face that you can't be sure if it's laughing or angry or crazy or just nothing. I knew some kids who knew some kids who worked for him. I heard people say things. 'Uncle Vito' was a well-known name around here. But well-known like a disease is well-known, or a famous war is well-known. His was the kind of name that grown-ups hated having to say, hated having to pretend they recognized.
"What you looking at? Huh?" he yelled at me, and I felt like my legs had turned to jelly and I couldn't move. He stopped making those gross movements. Now the woman was looking at me, too.
"What you got there? Give it to me. You a thief? Huh? You stealing shit?"
He took a step back, zipped up and pushed the woman aside. I knew I should run but I couldn't.
"Give me what you got or I'll call the police, huh, how about that?" He gave me this sneer like he's disgusted by his own words, but also kind of foiund it all funny.
The woman started laughing and pulled down her skirt. I felt a rush of hate in me. I can't explain it, but suddenly, the cold inside me was getting very, very warm. The cold that had been in me for four days suddenly felt icy hot. The heartbeat in my ears became louder.
"You dumb or something? I said give it to me," he said and took a step toward me, holding his hand out to my loot.
"No." I said.
The cold was thawing. He laughed and looked behind him at the woman and then back at me. My mind raced. Throat dry. He lunged at me and grabbed my arm, twisting it hard so I couldn't get away. He was twice my size. My feet nearly come off the ground.
"Little shit. You thieving round here? Give me what you got or I'm calling the police."
"No," I said again, almost biting down on the word to get it out.
He wasn't laughing anymore.
"I won't give you anything," I said. "And if you don't let me go, I'm going to tell everyone what I saw you doing." The words felt like they came from somewhere else. Not from me, but from a stronger, better boy that somehow existed just a few inches in front of me, like a photo negative. A stronger, braver photo negative.
"I know you're supposed to be married soon," I continued. "I'll tell your girl. I'll tell her everything."
He flung me aside like it burned his hands to hold me, and sneered that sneer at me again. Then he laughed.
"Little fucker. What's your name anyway, kid?"
"Leo."
"Leo what?"
"Leo Bianchi."
He looked me over. This time his face is different, like he was thinking of something.
"You got some nerve talking to me like that, you know that?"
"I know."
"Bianchi, huh?"
I nodded.
"All right, kid. We have a deal, you keep your mouth shut and I keep my mouth shut, OK?"
I took a long look at him and then nodded.
"Now beat it," he said, and turned to the woman, who was laughing again.
I ran so hard it was like my feet were on fireLike I had firecrackers under my heels. I ran so hard the old grandma's trinkets went mad in my pocket. I didn't even care about the food anymore. I didn't care about the cold. I had just spoken to Vito Roselli. In person. And I had told him "no". I didn't know how, I didn't know why, but I had said "no", and at that moment, a little flame took hold and started burning inside me, and I ran and ran as fast as I could, till my lungs burnt and I gulped for air so hard it stung my nostrils.
I might have been some loser orphan nobody. I might have been seventy pounds soaking wet and good for nothing, but I had told Vito Roselli himself to stick it, and he did, because we had made a deal, me and him.
I snapped back to attention and noticed my hands were shaking.
That was the past.
This was now.
Today, I was a man who could not only afford to buy my own trinkets and jewelry, but I had a beautiful woman to give them all to. And today, today I was going to give her something truly special.
I ran the pad of my thumb over the stubby velvet of the ring box I held in my hand. Stroking it over and over, my mind wandered. I had already lied to her about the stupid flowers that came that morning. I had lied to her about what had happened with Vito after that fateful day in the alleyway, years ago. And I was busy lying to her right now about allowing myself to be a pawn in a game played by the region's most brutal mob family since the 1900s.
But no more.
I had met with a shady looking kid at the Westgate parking lot a day earlier and arranged to hold a sealed, 48-foot intermodal container in my freshly built warehouse for two nights. No documents, no questions, no nothing. I didn't want to do it. But I also didn't want them to even mention Sophia to me again. I didn't even want her name dragged into a sentence these boneheads would ever utter. Hell, I didn't want them to even think about her. And the fucking flowers? Creepy. Already a step too far.
I would take care of it myself. Sophia had endured enough in life already. She could live to a hundred and five, perfect days every day, and still have had more than her fair share of shit in life. So I was no way in hell going to be responsible for giving her any more.
I reluctantly shook the parking lot kid's dirty hand and told him to scram. I'd hold the container for a few nights, but that was it. And then on my way home I stopped at a ring store.
I heard the front door open.
"Leo? Baby?" she said. Her voice was like a miracle. I ran over to her, swooped her up in my arms before she could close the door and spun her round quickly, getting lost in the curtain of long brown hair.
She squealed and clung to my neck.
"Leo! Oh my god, what's gotten into you?" she laughed, as I deposited her on the couch and got to work unlacing her boots and yanking off her various bags and scarves.
"I'm just glad you're home, that's all."
She smelt like heaven. It was always a wonder to me, how she always, always smelt good. Her eyes had those fine little crinkles in the corner as she looked down at me with amusement.
"Getting the royal treatment, I see?" she said.
I smiled back up at her and gave her a naughty wink.
"Oh, something like that..." I said, and she squealed again. I embraced her and kissed her hard and deep, lacing my fingers through her locks, kissing her like I had forgotten how good it could be. She pulled back and looked at me with questioning eyes.
"So what did you want to talk about...?"
I averted my eyes.
Marriage was never something we had sat down and had a big fat serious discussion over. I knew she wanted it, sure, but I had never seen the point if we were both just going through the motions. I wanted it to feel right. And these days ...I don't know, something about dredging up the past just made the present seem that much more real to me. I wanted her. And I wanted her for always.
"We'll get to that, just kiss me now," I said, and her deep eyes, one brown and one blue, just like mine, twinkled at me. I leaned down to crouch on the floor in front of her, angling down slow and coy like she could tell how crazy it was making me, and she planted the sweetest, fairy light little kiss along my parted lips.
"You seem different this evening," I breathed, as she teased the tips of my lips with hers.
"Oh?"
"Yeah."
"You like it?"
"Of course."
She smiled and dipped her tongue in for another slow, delicious kiss.
"Baby I've been thinking about you all day," I whispered, and I slid two eager hands down the length of her voluptuous waist and onto her round hips.
"Have you really?" she said teasingly, and giggled. "And what have you been thinking about exactly?"
I so seldom saw her all flirty like this.
"Well, I was thinking about ...this," I said and rested my hand on the swell of her perfect hips. "And I was thinking about ...this," I said, slowly sliding my fingertips down and in, so they hovered close to the deep cleft at the fold where her thighs met her belly.
"Oh?"
"Yeah. And I was thinking about how much it turns me on, everything that's underneath... this..." Here I traced delicate circles over the fabric of her simple shift dress, feeling the silky material glaze against her skin. The air in the room went heavy and I could hear her breathing as she looked down and watched me.
"And I've been thinking about those sounds you make when you're really excited ...when you're so turned on it looks like you could scream it feels so good, only you can't catch your breath long enough to scream," I said softly, and carried on tracing those circles.
She moaned and smiled.
"And I was thinking, what would I have to do to her to get her to make those sounds again?"
"Oh I can think of a few things..." she giggled.
By now my circles had found their way to teasing up the hem of her dress to reveal her firm, tanned thighs underneath. She had flopped back on the sofa and I was now on the floor below, between her legs and peering up at her from underneath heavy eyelids. With her head tossed to one side and her long hair raining down onto her shoulders on the other, she looked so beautiful. So perfect.
She grabbed one of my hands and, trembling, placed it higher up, to the warm, sweet mound right at the top of her thighs.
"I've been thinking about you too..." she purred, and, while still holding my eyes with hers, she began to slowly trace my hand over herself in the same small, tentative circles. I could hear her breath coming in excited rasps. I kissed her knee, gazing up at her with worshipful eyes.
"You like it like that?"
She gave me a mischievous nod.
With my other hand I slid the rest of the dress high up her hips and pressed her legs wider open still. When she peeled off her underwear, the warm, wet scent of her body underneath bloomed out and hit me, driving me wild.
"Fuck, you're beautiful," I growled, and got to my knees to kiss her inner thighs, to bury my head into that sweet lap. My tongue slipped easily between the slick folds of her body, then slid the full length of her wet pussy, ending in a little swirl at her plump pink clit. My hands felt her thighs quiver in response to this and spread wider, perching her ass off the edge of the sofa and tilting higher up for more. So I did it again. And again.
I looked up to see her head flop to the other side. Each of her hands were pulling at me, clenching and unclenching her little fists in my hair and grinding desperately up against me. The sight of her thrashing and moaning like that was all I needed: in a few moments I was rock hard and wanting her so bad it ached.
And just at that moment, I had a thought. It was a dumb thought, but I had it anyway. I didn't want anyone giving her flowers ever again. Not Vito. Not one of his goons. Nobody. Nobody except me. I wanted to be the cause of that beautiful smile on her face, always. I wanted to be the reason her whole face lit up and her eyes went wide. Why the fuck hadn't I bought her flowers every single day?
"That feels amazing..." she mumbled with half-closed eyes.
"Marry me," I blurted.
She yanked my head up and looked me square in the eyes, shocked.
"What did you say?"
"I said marry me. Say yes. I love you Sophia. Let's just do it, let's not waste any more time."
"Woah woah woah," she cried and quickly scooted her butt back so the hem of her dress flopped down again to cover her.
"Are you serious?"
I must have looked really goofy, grinning up at her, face wet, dick hard. But she stared back at me with something like suspicion.
"You're proposing to me ...now?"
"What better time to do it, right?" I laughed. Proposing while buried face full in the sweet lap of the woman I loved, completely venerating that most secret, most delicious part of her body ...what made more sense in the world?
She looked pissed, though.
"Marriage isn't a joke, Leo," she said, looking confused. I got up quickly and sat next to her on the sofa.
"But I'm not joking."
The mood in the room had gone from plasma hot to sputtering in a few seconds. I didn't understand. I quickly scrambled to reach for the side table, then handed her the velvet box. She looked at it.
"Is it a ring?"
"Of course it's a ring!" The dawning realization that I was fucking something up, maybe profoundly, hit me like a ton of bricks.
"You didn't want a ring...?"
"No, I ...it's not that Leo..." she said quietly. She opened the box and put the ring on, then fanned out her fingers and took a long, cryptic look at it.
"It's nice. It's a beautiful ring, really. It's just that ...I guess I didn't expect this moment to feel quite like this."
"Baby..." I sat at her feet again, took the ring box from her, tossed it aside and grasped both her hands.
"Baby, I know this is important to you, and I know I've been a pain in the ass about the whole idea, but you're right, and I want to, and I think we're ready."
She looked down at me with a faint smile playing on her lips and a few sparkly tears clinging to her lower lashes.
"You're a big idiot, you know that Leo?" she said and stroked my chin with her fingertips.
"You said you liked the ring!" I said and laughed.
"Uh huh. And how am I going to tell people you proposed to me, hm?"
"Well, just tell them the truth," I said with a sheepish grin. "Tell them I was eating you out and was so overcome by the amazingness of your perfect pussy that I basically had a religious experience and I couldn't help but propose, right there and then."
She burst out laughing. I reached up and grabbed her, and the laughter stopped for a moment as we stared into one another's eyes, the reality of the moment really hitting.
"You didn't give me your answer yet," I whispered up close. She blinked hard and the tears rolled quickly down her round cheeks.
"Leo, I would marry you a dozen times over, you know that. I love you."
I kissed her again, deeply, and was soon hard again. She laughed, tears still flowing, and looked down at me.
"Well that's very romantic," she said, eyeing the massive bulge in my trousers.
I gave her a completely serious look.
"Isn't it?" I said. "The thought of committing to loving you for the rest of our lives gives me a raging hard on ...sounds pretty romantic to me."
The ring sparkled vaguely on her finger as her hands clasped around my neck and shoulders, and she lowered into a passionate kiss.
"Now where were we...?" I said as I guided her body back to its old position and my hands found their way back up her dress again. She giggled as I gently pried open her thighs and found that familiar, juicy spot I loved.
"Not that, I want your cock."
I lifted my eyebrow at her. She never, and I mean never said that to me. Sophia was always demure. Always the classy girl who nudged and smiled and hinted, but never, and I really mean never, used anything remotely like a dirty word. She didn't have to tell me twice. I sprung up, tore off my clothing and soon had her dress bunched high up just under her armpits.
Fumbling wildly, I lay her down on the sofa and tried to balance carefully over her, all the while she had that naughty fuck me look in her eyes.
To my delight, she pulled her legs apart and up high towards her shoulders, completely exposing her gorgeous pink cunt to me. I couldn't help myself. When I brought my hips down hard onto her and sunk the full length of my cock into her greedy little body, it felt so mind-splittingly good I had to stop breathing for a moment. She gasped and twitched against me, but I couldn't hold back. It was as though I was falling off a steep cliff and now that I had taken the first step, I couldn't stop myself from accelerating further and further down, chasing that sweet ecstasy she had tucked away inside her...
In an instant I was fucking her hard and mercilessly, pulling up my hips and bringing them swiftly down again into her upturned hips, ploughing every last inch of my cock deep into her, stroke after stroke after stroke. To my surprise, she opened up further and took it all in without skipping a beat. She put her knees to her chest, folded up small, and squeezed her eyes tightly against every thrust. I scarcely recognized her, as though she was in a trance. But she wouldn't look at me. Her eyes were closed, and soon, I realized something was wrong. Very wrong.
"Sophia? Hey, where did you go?" I said, and she blinked her eyes open and stared up at me.
"I'm right here," she smiled, but there was something hollow in it.
I looked down at her, gently grazing my knuckles against her cheekbones as I kept that same deep, smooth rhythm in and out of gorgeous body. But something was wrong. In a few moments, I could hold out no more. I growled and clenched my jaw, lost control and came inside her. Her face was blank as she steadied my arms and watched my face twisting and contorting.
I was sweating like a pig and probably just as pink as one, too, but she lay underneath me, looking disconcertingly unruffled.
"You didn't..."
"Not everything in the world is about having an orgasm you know," she snapped.
I was stunned.
I disentangled my limbs from hers, tried to gather myself and watched as she quickly shimmied her dress back down again and started to hunt around for her underwear.
I wanted to say something. But I stood there mute, wondering what the hell had just happened.
"I'm sorry..." she said eventually, when she had smoothed back her hair and stood up from the sofa. "It's just ...all of this is quite overwhelming."
She came over and gave me a sweet, lingering hug. But something was still wrong. I realized with a dull ache somewhere inside my chest: she could have secrets from me, too.
Chapter 6 - Sophia
I took a peek over my shoulder, pushed the heavy doors open and quietly let myself inside.
I had been attending this salsa class for a few months now, but no matter how many times I skulked up to the non-descript entrance, I still had to double and triple check that the coast was clear before slinking inside. The group itself knew to hide, too.
The room inside was identified only by a paper sign printed with "Melissa's Salsa Club" and nothing more. But if anybody had seen me creeping into this room, it would instantly be clear that there was no salsa going on here at all.
Inside was a wide ring of budget plastic chairs, arranged on a linoleum floor, and a steel foldout table laden with supermarket cookies and a few bottles of Coke Zero. Somehow, the spread of snacks always seemed to fill me with as much shame as the real reason I was here.
I settled down, clutching my handbag close to my body and nodding curt smiles to some of the faces I recognized and had seen in previous sessions.
More people drifted in through the big doors, some looking a little nervous and unsure, most just milling over to a chair or helping themselves to a cookie. Lizzy, our coordinator, came swanning through the doors in her usual wooden bead necklace and long skirt get-up, and smiled warmly as she settled down.
"Right! If that's everyone, we'll get started," she chirped, and opened up a folder.
When you come to a sex addicts support group, the first part is always to put the newbies through the ringer. Everyone listens with blank expressions but I know, deep down, that they're all taking notes, all measuring them up, mentally peeling off their clothing, mentally chastising themselves and then mentally placing it all back on again. It's awful. It's sordid, I know it is. But I can't help but keep coming back here.
"Right, so we have some new faces with us this time, Erin, would you like to go first and tell us what's brought you here today?"
I leaned back in my seat and looked at the frightened teenaged girl in front of me. Before she opened her purple-lipsticked mouth I already knew the story she'd tell. Because it was my story.
Shitty parents (or in my case, no parents at all), shady boyfriends, outrageous nights out, and then the juicy bits that everyone wanted to know - the drugs (sometimes it was alcohol), the poor choices, the vivid descriptions of wanton, empty sex that everyone shook their head at but deep down relished ...I knew about it all.
"...and that's when I realized I had a problem" she said, little tears in her eyes. "I always told myself I'd never do that. I'd never sink that low..."
I knew every man in here was mentally fucking her brains out as they all nodded and smiled politely.
"Yes, well, it's a place we've all been, so you're not alone," the coordinator said. "Thank you for sharing, Erin."
I knew it was ridiculous. I couldn't even imagine what Leo would say if he knew I was here. I had told him more about my past than I had told anyone. And he had accepted everything without a second thought. But this was a part of me that I couldn't tell even him. What was I going to say? That even though he was perfect, that he adored me, that I felt more myself and more in love with him than I ever had for anyone in my life, somehow part of me kept returning to ...this. To these seedy meetings. These cringe-inducing confessions. I kept coming back week after week. I figured, at least going to a sex addicts support group was better than actually being a full-blown sex addict, right?
It was time for the next newbie to spill his guts. What would his story be? Four women in one night? Addicted to porn? Or was it something nasty like cheating on his wife?
I scanned him over and tried to guess. Worn cowboy jeans but pristine shoes. Too-long hair and a kind of shifty look about him. But he was hot; I'd give him that. I worked all day with people, and with people's bodies, and I had a knack for reading the way they carried themselves. This guy was all in the hips, all swagger, and when he opened his mouth you could tell right away that he was going to indulge plenty in what Lizzy liked to call 'little backslides'.
I felt bad, staring at him, listening to him speak. Thinking the things I was thinking. But it was my secret. I had it safely locked away on Wednesday evenings at six, and I had it all under control, and basically, it was like a release valve. I knew these meetings weren't quenching my unhealthy obsessions, but in a way, they were a fixed, controlled dose of bad that allowed all the good that followed the rest of the week. I felt bad that I had kept all of this from Leo. But on the other hand, it was also in his best interests to conceal from him just how fucked up I really was.
The guy and I locked eyes and I didn't look away. He started to rattle on about his past. About how he felt like an addict, felt out of control. He said he felt crazy without a woman every night, but that he felt predatory going out to pick up someone solely for that purpose. He mouthed the word 'vampire' with a little too much sexiness and I couldn't help but smile.
He locked eyes with me again.
I would have fallen over myself to get to a guy like him in the past. I knew I could read him, and maybe, he could read me too. We were ex members of a cult but we could still recognize the markings, the secret handshakes and gestures. The top half of his body said "I repent", but the bottom half said "I'm not done sinning just yet." His lips told a story of hopelessness, but his eyes slid over the room like a hunter, looking for the most vulnerable person.
And just like a little mouse that escaped from my grasp, my mind went scampering away and soon I was imagining naughty scenarios ...scenarios that had this particularly unsuitable man starring in the center role. He droned on and on but I wasn't listening to his words. I was noticing that his body language had quietly angled toward me. Aha. So that meant I was the chosen vulnerable one.
I would never cheat on Leo. Not for anything in the world. But some old, sick, bitter part of me needed this sleazy guy to look at me. Needed him to want me, even if just so I could act surprised and turn him down. We locked eyes again and he finished his story. The truth was that the sex was just a byproduct. I wanted all those weird, fuzzy feelings that came along with the sex. I couldn't describe it.
"Well, perhaps you can chat to Sophia about that, I know she's certainly struggled with some of the same issues you've brought up here," Lizzy said and spun her gaze towards me.
I smiled politely.
I knew that on the surface I seemed cool and calm. Put together. A sensible girl who had already had her come-to-Jesus moment and took up holistic healing and prayer beads instead to heal the hole in her heart. A nice girl. The same girl who had stood before this very group and claimed that she now saw her body as a temple.
But that wasn't quite the whole truth. My upright posture, Buddha-smile and sensible shoes hid the fact that every Wednesday at six, I came here to fantasize. And now I was fantasizing about him. I told myself it was OK. I did it mentally so I didn't have to do it for real.
What harm did it do to picture myself suddenly standing up, right now in the middle of the next person's little speech, and just stripping right down to nothing? Did it matter that I wasn't listening to them at all, but imagining how deliciously shocked they'd be to see me exhibiting myself, shameless, then picking out the man I wanted and fucking him right here, on this dirty linoleum, while everyone watched?
If I didn't really intend to ever do any of that, why not push the fantasies a little further and imagine ...all of them? Piling on top of me and overpowering me completely? Why not indulge in the image of me, the reformed, the once-was-found-but-now-am-lost-again girl, spreading her legs wide and inviting anyone to come and help themselves?
The group chat turned out to be rather uneventful. We discussed boundaries, we shared some 'triumphs' from the past week, plus our goals for the week ahead. After some affirmations the group split up and people wandered off to nibble the cookies or head home. The guy cornered me, cookie in hand, and cocked his hip my direction.
"So," he said, smiling, "I hope this doesn't come across as rude or anything, but you really don't look like the kind of girl who should be at a meeting like this."
I smiled back. A pickup line at a sex addicts' meetup was certainly gutsy, I'd give him that. I loathed him already. So why didn't I just walk away?
"Well," I said, "don't take this the wrong way, but you totally look like you should."
He burst out laughing.
"I deserved that," he said, and then extended his hand. "Trevor."
I didn't offer my own hand. "Yeah, I know. You already introduced yourself in the group," I said, good-girl smile still on my face.
"Do you uh... do you not find all this stuff really awkward? I mean, is it normal for the group to share, you know, such crazy personal information?" he said, trying another tack.
I wondered what his cock looked like. I wondered whether he said 'shit' or 'fuck' when he came, or even 'oh god'.
"Yeah, well, being honest is all part of the recovery process," I said breezily. But I could tell that he had noticed that although my tone of voice was saying "back off, creep", my eyes were saying, "keep going". I picked up a cookie and bit down hard into it.
"Ok, well, be honest with me then. How long has it been since you've ...you know ...had a backslide?" he said with an impish grin, putting scare quotes around Lizzy's favorite word. This was all strictly against the spirit of the group. Completely bad for his 'recovery', and mine. But it was also the most fun I'd had all week.
I looked up to the right and pretended I was completely unaware of the fact that he was trying to come onto me. There was no chance in hell. In fact, it was only because I knew how impossible it was that anything could happen here that I allowed myself to indulge in a little banter.
"Um... well let's see ...I've been on a really good stretch lately. I'm being very productive at work these days, and, oh, I've just gotten engaged!" I said cheerfully, and flashed my new ring at him. He looked at my hand, a sour smile spreading across his face.
"Aw, shit, I'm sorry ...I didn't ..."
"Sorry for what?" I said, staring at him blankly.
He took another cookie, mumbled something and wandered off. I felt a little nauseous. It was time to go home.
I didn't know why I kept coming to these things. I didn't know what the hell was wrong with me. But I walked out, said goodbye to the last few stragglers and walked home in the cool night air. It was just a temporary thing. My life was looking up. I had nothing to be unhappy about. So what if I still had some weird sexual hangups left over from a weird time in my life? I'd stop attending these meetups just as soon as Leo and I married. Obviously. I loved him. More than anything. And he'd run screaming if he knew ...well, any of this.
The walk home was quiet. My head squirmed with thoughts that I shouldn't be having. I pictured a dirty, alterative reality unfolding, parallel to my own. As I walked home, alone, chaste and reasonable, another version of myself was busy living out a different story. This Sophia stayed behind and flirted with the too-long-hair guy, and asked him to come home with her. This Sophia was reckless. Horny. So desperate that she couldn't even wait to get indoors and instead pulled the guy into a dim alley on the way there and fucked him right on the street.
I picked up my pace. Leo would be waiting at home for me. The thoughts, however, still followed. When I walked past a dark, empty alleyway I took a quick detour and found myself instantly cloaked in darkness and cold. I threw my back against the chill brick wall and squeezed my eyes shut. Before I could stop myself, one hand freed itself from my pocket and I thrust it between my legs, rubbing desperately at the ache there, hidden from view.
My fingers worked furiously over my clit as I succumbed to the images rushing through my mind. Bad things. Forbidden, filthy thoughts.
I saw the guy from the meetup in front of me. "I knew this is what you'd like, you dirty girl..." I imagined his worn jeans in a bunch. His too long hair.
The hunger inside me reached fever pitch as that Sophia collided with this one. My fingers worked furiously and soon I choked and gasped as I came thundering to a secret orgasm, sweet relief flooding all through me. Heart still pounding and a thin sheen of sweat prickling at my brow, I hurriedly straightened my clothes and raced out of the alleyway, towards home.
I hated myself then.
I was going to be better.
Starting tomorrow, I was going to be better, I swore to myself.
Chapter 7 - Leo
"The trouble with being the kind of free agent you're trying to be is that it often feels like you're playing broken telephone. The Costa Ricans aren't exactly known for their savvy business practices, you know?"
I was paying this lawyer a disgusting amount of money per hour, and it unsettled me that even a tiny bit of that hour was going towards casual wisecracking. I led him to the back office and set him up at the makeshift desk, where he started to offload his briefcase of documents.
I had a million things on my agenda today. The problem with setting up the whole export operation was that everything needed to be ready all at once, but every step required the previous step to be in place first. It was a house of cards built out of catch-22s.
I hated walking around this empty warehouse; so empty it felt like an aircraft hangar. I walked around doing casual calculations in my head about how much money was being bled away every day with every square foot that went unoccupied.
This business would be a tight, money-making ship once it got off the ground, but it was eating ungodly amounts of cash to get it there in the first place.
"Want some coffee?" I said with a little flourish. The place was certainly brimming with the stuff since my most recent trip had seen me coming back with a giant bag of 'samples'. Beautiful, polished brown-black beans from Tarrazu, it was luxury coffee with a superstar profile: the body of a supermodel, low acidity and an aroma so deep and strong you could feel it at the back of your throat.
My distributors were chomping at the bit - in fact a coffee house in San Francisco was currently being built that wanted to stock my beans exclusively and were hoping to open in a month - and I had a few reps coming over this afternoon to discuss pushing a few loads to blenders up north who had just had a falling out with their main supplier and were looking for something that could give them a Fairtrade stamp on their menus.
It was a tremendous amount of responsibility. A massive undertaking in which I personally shouldered most of the risk. A lot was riding on me pulling all of this off. But I loved it.
I sat down at the desk, handed the lawyer his coffee and tried to make sense of some of the documents he had pushed over to my end of the table.
"Oh, wait a second. When were the inspectors here?" he said, eyes zooming in on one particular paper in a folder I had handed him.
"Uh, I don't know. Months ago. It was one of the first things I did, to get it out the way."
He shook his head and put the document down again.
"Yeah, no, you're going to have to get an updated check I'm afraid. See, you've since installed the washrooms and plumbing to the rear of the premises, correct?"
"Correct..."
"In that case, they'll need to go ahead and do another inspection before we can move on with the next step..."
I could feel my nostrils flaring.
"But this certificate is good for a year..."
"It is good for a year, but you've altered the property, you see, so in the eyes of the law it counts as a whole new property. I'm sorry, we can't move forward unless I have this clearance."
Fuck, I hated this shit. The endless list of stamped and signed documents, the endless mountains of regulation I had to wade through, all at great expense. I rankled at the thought of having this guy in my office again. He saw me rubbing my face and smiled apologetically, then handed my folder back. I knew the asshole would charge me for a full hour even though he'd scarcely been here long enough to take two sips of his coffee.
"Do I have to pay again for a whole new inspection?"
He stood up and gathered his things in his briefcase.
"You'll have to take that up with your individual providers," he said formally, and extended his hand for me to shake. I shook it, grumbled something or other and saw him out.
It was a bad start to the morning.
I checked my watch - at least I'd have a little time now before the circus of reps started for the afternoon. I sat down at my desk, undid the top button of my shirt and threw my feet on the desk. I grabbed the remote and turned the TV on to catch an interesting looking news segment.
Some footage of a pair of sniffer dogs walking in the airport followed by a professorial type talking into the camera. I turned the volume up.
"The problem with substances like this is that even when what's being sold is correctly labelled, the consumer often vastly underestimates the potency or simply doesn't know what they're doing, so they overdose..." the man said, waving his hands.
I had been vaguely been following this story in the papers for the last few days, but was surprised to see how alarmed people still were. They were saying it was worse than anything the country had seen before. A new, scary compound called 'PK' was coming out of Eastern Europe, people were dying, the police had yet to get a handle on any of it.
I took a sip of my piping-hot coffee.
At least my soon-to-be drug empire was legal, I thought, cynically. But it got me thinking about Vito. He wasn't featured in this segment, but everyone knew that at some point, the mob had to be involved. That was the way it worked around here - if there was a big enough pie out there, you could be sure these guys had their fingers in it, no question. In fact, with how big this whole PK thing was, it was basically a given that Vito and his guys were at the heart of it.
I wondered about the inspectors. About all these hurdles the lawyer was throwing my way. It grated on me that an honest businessman like myself was wasting time with useless legislature while parasites like Vito ran around unchecked for literally decades. It made me feel like a chump just knowing that he had never had to deal with building inspectors, never had to pay to apply to have a fucking toilet installed at his workshop, for crying out loud...
I slammed my feet back down on the floor and marched over to get some more coffee.
Maybe, though ...maybe there was a middle ground between getting involved with Vito outright and merely taking the best of what he had to offer. Maybe I could use him, too. I knew that if I was one of Vito's cronies, I'd be done with a month's worth of bureaucratic bullshit by lunchtime today.
As a thin stream of chocolate colored liquid drizzled out the coffee machine, I chewed down on my lips and tried to think. Maybe it wasn't all or nothing. Maybe I was making life hard for myself by not taking the golden opportunity right in front of me. Would it be the end of the world to take a little help from Vito Roselli? It wouldn't be forever, just till I got a leg up on my own, till I could run the whole outfit more legitimately.
I had always complained to Sophia that the crap part about growing up without a family is that it's so hard to make new connections - personal connections, business connections ... but wasn't Vito my one, original family connection? Look, part of me hated the guy, but he had money, he had clout, and he could make a lot of my problems go away overnight, I knew that much for sure. And now with Sophia and the wedding ...well, a little extra certainly wouldn't go amiss right now.
I took the cup and pressed the hot liquid to my lips.
No way.
I couldn't do it. I couldn't continue down that thought process ...that was how bad men got to be as powerful as they were - good men let them. I didn't care if I had to fill out forms for the next year, I would do this on my own steam, and Vito and his clowns could fuck off. I was decided.
My phoned pinged and I pulled it out of my pocket, catching an email from the lawyer. He found another document that wasn't correctly signed and would need to see me again once I could procure another properly authorized copy. I cursed loudly under my breath and went back to my office.
I stared at the giant painting of Costa Rica on the wall. Sophia had been so happy when we visited a year ago. I could see her beaming, nearly-sunburnt face under her big straw hat as she paraded around in her bikini in the hotel room, dancing to salsa music and slightly tipsy. It was a good look on her. She loved to dance. And I loved to watch her dance.
We had gone out late every night to the salsa clubs and laughed and drank till the sun came up. On our last night there she had gotten that naughty look in her eyes and accosted me in the elevator up to the room. I had kissed her so hard it was as though my life depended on it.
I swallowed the last of my coffee and woke up the laptop. I had work to do. There was no point daydreaming about any of that. That Sophia was in the past now.
Chapter 8 - Sophia
When I was younger, I thought that farmers' markets like these only existed in the movies.
Cute little tents with shiny, happy vegetables lined up in rows, and people milling around with golden Labradors and shiny, happy faces as they bought their organic vine tomatoes or their beeswax candles or their eggs from chickens that had lived a nicer life than many humans... it was all too pretty. Too perfect.
Of course, I loved coming out here with Leo early every Sunday morning to pick through the offerings, but deep down, it was becoming clear to me that what I loved best about these outings was the fact that I could avoid The Great Standoff.
I don't know when The Great Standoff started happening to us. Maybe it crept up on us both slowly at first, but it was a full-blown, weekly phenomenon now.
The Great Standoff was all about sex - or the lack of it. All week it felt like Leo and I dodged one another when it came to fulfilling our 'quota'. The opportunity to make love was always there on the table, always in the back of both of our minds, but the game was to see how distracted we could both pretend to be so that the opportunity floated away and we could both breathe a sigh of relief and claim that our schedules were busy, and we'd just have to wait till next time.
But on Sundays, there were no distractions. And we had all the time in the world. Leo liked morning sex. A lot. He was a deeply sexual man, and the only man I'd ever known who could come three times in one session ...and be ready to go again in an hour.
Sometimes he'd poke me in the back with his hard-on and smile and say nothing, but I'd pretend I hadn't noticed. He'd stroke and tease my neck, and wrap his warm hands around my waist and grind his hips against mine as I slept. Sometimes he'd ask outright, and I'd laugh and tell him sure, but if we do then we'll get to the farmer's market too late and then it'll be so busy we won't get parking...
And so these days we just went to the farmer's market instead. An 'alternative' famer's market, and the double meaning in the name wasn't lost on me. I wasn't an idiot. I could tell it irked him when weeks went by and the fire between us died right down to cold ashes. Sometimes there was no way to avoid it, and we'd steel ourselves and have a little morning romp together. That way, I felt like at least could 'reset' things and could buy myself some time. But these encounters were awkward enough that he'd back off for a few days afterwards.
It was a problem.
I hated how things were. But I didn't know how to fix them. I was good at impulsive, here-and-now decision-making. I don't know why my body had stopped responding to him. But it had. This whole long-term relationship deal was completely alien to me. And wasn't it normal for people to lose interest in one another over time? I had no idea. Nobody had ever stuck around with me long enough.
For the time being, though, things were holding up. Barely. I think. Leo seemed a little distant, a little preoccupied, but I chalked it up to all the new developments at work.
He held my hand tightly as we strolled through the market, bonding a little over the fact that this week's Great Standoff had been successfully avoided and now we could just buy some zucchinis for dinner in peace.
"Hey, these are cool," he said and drifted over to a tent. I followed to see him holding up a giant string of dried red chilies, arranged in a tight whorl so that they made a cute-looking garland.
"But baby, what would we do with so many chilies?"
He put it back down again.
"I was just saying. I didn't want to get it or anything," he said, and we kept walking.
I'm sure all the women that walked past us wondered how such an amazing guy had ended up with a tramp like me. I'm being serious - Leo was distractingly good looking. His two-tone eyes weren't even the most noticeable thing about him. He was built so solidly. Even when he wasn't weight-training, he had a natural heaviness to his frame, and at nearly six and a half feet, that solidness gave him a sort of gravitational pull that seemed to catch the eye of every passing girl in a three-yard radius.
He had chestnut brown hair, tanned, freckled cheeks and lips that I had only ever seen once elsewhere: on a marble bust of the Roman Emperor Augustus we saw together in a museum the year before. They were the most insanely sexy lips. Shapely, curved on the top and bottom, suggesting some kind of perpetual kiss. He was completely unaware of how hot they made him look, though, and was always absentmindedly chewing or sucking on them.
Even though we were in a pretty serious sexual lull, it didn't mean I couldn't see how gorgeous he still was. Or, for that matter, how gorgeous strangers in the street thought he was, too.
It didn't matter though.
He had proposed.
For the time being, I had 'banked' him, and as long as I kept my slate clean and quit my stupid obsession with my Wednesday night 'salsa classes', I'd be fine. The sex would pick up again, I was sure of it.
"Oh my god, look at this!" he said and guided my arm away again. I was steered towards a community notice board that Leo was excitedly pointing at. He read it out loud.
"Everyday Tantra - Workshop for Couples. Intimacy, Balance, Connection. It's a weekend retreat ..." he said and scanned the details of the poster.
"This is your kind of thing, isn't it baby? Hippie sex stuff. I'm down it with. We should totally go," he said and flashed me a goofy grin.
I laughed.
"Baby, do you even know what tantric sex is?"
"Uh ...sure I do. It's like meditation, only sexier," he said, and shrugged. I raised a teasing eyebrow at him. He continued. "Yeah, I'm keen. It's been a while since my third eye's been, you know, opened." He held his hands in a silly prayer posture as he eagerly read the fine print. I couldn't help but laugh.
"Oh, my god, you're actually serious."
"Of course I am." He had taken his phone out and was snapping a picture of the poster.
"But baby, you don't' even know what it is, though..."
"Isn't that all part of the fun?" he said and took my hand again. "Fine, bossy boots, tell me what it's all about then. Unweave the rainbow for me, go on I'm listening."
"It's actually a very serious spiritual practice, it's a very ancient set of techniques and rituals that..." He had on his goofy face again, pretending to listen to me intently. I laughed and slapped his arm. "Stop it!"
"Stop what? I hear you. Very serious. Very spiritual, got it. I have just one question, though."
"Yes...?"
"How much actual boning do you think there'll be?" he said, hands in Namaste and eyes twinkling. I couldn't help laugh again. I loved when he got into this playful mood of his, even though the topic was a little too close to home this time.
"How much? Oh, it's loads. I mean, see all these people drinking their matcha smoothies? It's not for their health. Oh no. It's so they can keep up their stamina for what goes on in those classes, believe me. That's how baby hippies are made, didn't you know?"
"Let's do it!
"You wouldn't last two minutes," I scoffed.
He gave me a hurt look. "What? That's not true. I'd win so hard, those sex hippies wouldn't know what hit them."
I chuckled. "I don't think it's a competition baby..."
"Sure it is. I'll win first place for hottest girlfriend and then I'll win again when they see my mighty throbbing kundalini," he said, nuzzling in for a kiss.
"Kundalini? Ooh, nice use of the lingo, I'm impressed."
"Eh, I just saw it on the poster," he grinned.
"So help us all, once your mighty throbbing kundalini's out, I don't know what we'll do," I giggled.
He smiled wide at me and we walked off. Our conversation fizzled as we walked on and he looked at this and that. It was all just a light-hearted joke. Just something cute and silly. But at the same time, something about it all aggravated me. I pushed everything out of my mind.
We picked up some veggies, chatted about this and that and soon found we had seen everything we wanted to get. It was time to go home. Time to face The Great Standoff, Part Two - which was easier to manage since I could always claim I was too tired.
When did my life get like this? Did I really go through years of therapy, a million stints in rehab and a mountain of self-help literature only to create a life so full of obligation I felt the only thing to save me from it was to dawdle a little longer at the honey stall on the way out?
Leo was awesome. He had a rough past, but he had overcome it. I clearly didn't deserve him.
We climbed into the car and set off. The day was light, clean and easy, but my head was a mess. As he started the engine and began to drive us home, it occurred to me plain as day: I had a Madonna/whore complex. And now that I had so thoroughly stomped out the whore part of the equation, all I could do was be a better and better Madonna. And being a Madonna was boring as hell.
"Sorry for being a bit grumpy back there," I said, and leaned over to squeeze his strong thigh. He turned to give me a warm, easy smile.
"Grumpy? You? On a Sunday morning? That's almost unheard of!" he laughed, but he squeezed my knee back in silent acknowledgment.
"Yeah, well, I've just been kind of busy at work and stuff... lost a few clients lately and you know how it is, I'm always worried I'll never find new ones..."
"Completely understood, baby," he said, smiling and keeping his eyes on the road. "We're building our lives together, we're making a future, these things do take time."
I looked down at the glittering rock on my finger, pretty but so alien. How could I have sex with a guy who was so sweet, gentle and considerate? I was like a baby duckling who had imprinted on all the bad boys in her formative years, and now she couldn't even recognize a regular, normal guy as a potential mate. The more patient and understanding he was, the more turned off I felt.
It was tragic, when you thought about it.
So I didn't think about it.
Lizzy at the group always said "don't get rid of old behavior patterns, replace them". So, for the time being, sexual frustration and a dead bedroom were the replacement on what honestly used to be a lot worse. I could just chalk it up to progress and hope like hell that I'd come around again.
'Speaking of buildings," I said, and changed the topic.
"Well, the inspectors came over the other day. I swear to god the red tape makes me want to scream. But, they line up the rings and I gotta jump through 'em, right?"
I smiled and started to stroke his inner thigh a little, since my hand was already there.
In the early days of our relationship, he turned me on so much I had once made him pull over so I could suck him right there and then, because I couldn't wait till we got home. I remembered days when just sliding a single finger up and down the inside of his leg would have him hard and speeding to get home as fast as possible. Today, though, it was more like a consolatory gesture - a friendly caress to apologize for the fact that we didn't do that kind of thing anymore.
"I guess so. Busy week ahead?" I asked, pulling my hand away and staring out the window.
"Always. You?"
"Same. In fact, I might need to sort out some invoices and things this evening, my paperwork is looking like a hurricane went through it."
"Oh yeah?"
"Yeah. I think I'll have an early night, too."
And then I saw it. His broad jaw clenched a little, something moved over those perfect, arched lips of his and his hands tightened on the steering wheel.
"You OK?" I said.
He flashed me a tight smile.
"Sure, of course. Maybe I'll squeeze some work in this evening too."
And so it was. We drove on in silence, The Great Standoff descended on us like an invisible blanket. I loved Leo. More than anything in the world. And that was why the stakes felt so high. I didn't know what was wrong with me, why I couldn't just clean up my act and let go of my stupid past already.
But I would be the perfect girlfriend for him.
I had to.











Chapter 9 - Leo
I was in the same diner again. Two girls were in the same corner again, and they were a different pair from before, sure, but they were still the same, after everything's said and done. They looked me over out the corner of their eyes and I looked them over, and we all looked and tried to pretend that nobody was looking.
And that's when I saw Vito on the news.
The same grainy driver's license pic they had been using for him for years now flashed across the screen. It was new laundering allegations, sure, new investigations into trafficking from Eastern Europe, but it was still all the same, after everything's said and done. People like Vito are the whack-a-moles of the world - you beat them down in one place and they just pop up again some other place.
The TV volume was low so I couldn't hear much, but a few images of pretty young women flashed across the TV screen. Prom-style shots, candid club photos. One was smiling broadly, glitter on her cheeks, a black choker on her neck. She looked so young. The words "Human trafficking on the rise?" rolled slowly across the screen beneath her.
As far as I can tell, the game has always been about masks. The first mask is the front business -a laundromat, a café or, in Roselli's case, a sleazy strip club with a corner devoted to rigged slot machines. What lies underneath that is the real business. The illegal electronic imports, stolen cars, drugs, prostitutes.
But there are masks below that, too.
Vito and his cronies are family men. And in a family like theirs, there are always hierarchies. Keep peeling away the masks, keep looking past the goons and the runners and the bullshit bureaucrats and eventually you get to the inner circle, the people who are so loyal to one another it almost goes deeper than blood.
I looked at my watch. My jaw clamped involuntarily as I realized the fat fucker was late, again.
Lately, by some strange laws of relationship alchemy, Sophia had seemingly transferred all her sexual energy into browsing online for wedding crap instead. We hadn't fucked in weeks, and yet she had decided and re-decided on a reception color scheme four thousand times over and written a million updated lists of guests and dress vendors and potential wedding favors (what the fuck is a wedding favor anyway?)
I wanted her to be my wife. More than anything. I would have cut off my right arm if it meant making her happy. But lately, I'd been feeling a little grated that the things that made her happy these days never seemed to have anything to do with my dick. I couldn't tell if I was angry that this idiot was wasting my time again, or if I was just horny. Or both.
The bell on the door tinkled and I turned to see the fat, heaving figure I recognized as Joe Smith. The meeting before, he had told me his name and I had laughed that it sounded so fake, but he had shrugged and said that it just meant never having to lie to hotel staff whenever he was cheating on his wife.
He sat beside me, waved for an espresso and knotted his fingers in front of him on the counter, like some kind of budget funeral director about to talk business. I couldn't believe that he was Vito's right hand man.
"The shipment has been collected," he said. He took his espresso from the waitress and folded his thick lips round the rim for a sip.
"Good," I said. "I've gotta wonder why Vito himself can't come down here and tell me that."
He nodded slowly.
"None of us know where Vito is, buddy," he said and puckered for another sip. The tiny cup looked comical curled in his big, hairy hands.
"What?"
"What you mean what? You don't watch the news? Vito's gone. The feds have been on us for months now."
I suddenly became aware of the hair on the back of my neck. Gone?
"We need you to hold another shipment for us," he said, and drained the cup.
"No way. I told you I would help you out once. I did it. That's it."
He gave me a long, exhausted look.
"You don't gotta do anything. You have the space already. You say nothing, we come, we go, it's over. What's your problem?"
"I don't have a problem, this is your problem. This is Vito's problem. I can't help you, sorry."
He frowned, pulling his bushy eyebrows into a clump in the middle of his forehead.
"Ok, I think I'm not explaining this properly or something. This is in your best interests," he said, slowly, as though speaking to a child. "Believe me, you want to do this for Vito."
I burst out laughing.
"It's always like this with you guys, isn't it? Are you all in some kind of budget gangster movie? I mean, fuck, it's like you're not even trying to be original."
His expression remained stony.
"We're in trouble, Leo."
"So?"
"There's this new guy, a real dangerous guy coming up. He's trying to squeeze us out, Leo, he plays dirty, he's got no loyalty, no nothing."
I shook my head in disbelief. I felt like I was in a dream.
"You front us for a little while," he said, "not forever, just till the heat blows over and we can take care of this punk once and for all. And Leo, we don't expect you do it for nothing, you know that right?" He flicked his bleary eyes to me and for the first time made eye contact. They were the eyes of something cold-blooded, something not quite alive, but I thought I detected the faintest hint of desperation all the same.
"What's in the containers?" I asked and stared hard back at him. He snapped his gaze away and to the empty coffee cup.
"I can't tell you that."
"Is it drugs? Girls?"
"I said I can't tell you."
I leaned back, exhaled loudly and crossed my hands.
"Yeah, no. Not touching it with a ten-foot pole. I'm not part of this mess, I'm not a character in this cheesy mobster movie you all are starring in."
"It's no movie, Leo," he said and shot me a pleading look again. "You think there's girls in the containers? I'm not saying there are. But so what if there are? You think there won't be more girls after that? You think you can change any of this? The girls are coming in, one way or another."
"But I won't be a part of it," I said simply.
He pushed his coffee cup away and laced his fingers again, then shook his head.
"What does he see in you anyway?"
"Who?"
"Fucking Vito. I don't see it. All I see is some spoilt kid. What's so special about you, huh?"
I said nothing.
"I'm serious, one of the most powerful men in the country thinks of you as a son and you have the balls to fuck around when he needs your help."
"Nice try, but that's not going to work on me."
"Yeah, yeah, how could I forget? You're too good to be a 'gangster' huh? You take when it suits you, and disappear when it's your turn to pay back."
"The answer is no."
"Fine. You're going to regret that."
There was no threat in his voice. It wasn't a warning. It was said simply, more like an observation. Like the way you'd notice that rain was forecast for the day or that gas had gone up in price. I couldn't show him that he had shaken me, but something about how calmly he said these words brought the hairs prickling to the back of my neck again.
Chapter 10 - Sophia
"Ouch."
I flinched and pulled back my hands.
"I'm sorry, too much pressure?"
The guy on the massage table twisted around to give me an awkward smile.
"Yeah, it feels like you're trying to rip my flesh off my bones," he laughed.
This was bad. Very bad. It had been happening more and more frequently. I didn't understand it. I had spent extra time meditating and trying to calm and clear my mind. I had spoken to my mentors and tried to understand where all the tension was coming from. I had written it all out in my journal, I had lightened my workload and I had spent more time on my breathing ritual every morning before sessions.
Then why the fuck was I still hurting people?
"I'm sorry, is this any better?" I said and leaned in again more gently this time, rolling the heels of my hand over the intercostals and trying to make amends on his poor body. He winced and pulled back a little.
"Uh, yeah, no," he said and all at once he was sitting up on the table. "I think I'm good. Maybe we can call it a day."
"What?"
He looked at the clock.
"We only have another five minutes, and I think I'm good, I'll take off, actually." He gave me another awkward laugh.
Oh god. This was worse than I thought. I had been floundering and pinching and scratching and messing up the whole week. But now I had gotten so bad my client was actually walking out? I struggled to blink back tears.
"Yeah, sure, of course, I understand," I said, and tried to hurry him out as fast as I could.
I had failed my client. I had hurt him instead of healed him. I wasn't calm. I wasn't composed. I wasn't fucking Zen. I hurriedly closed the door after him and erupted in hot, embarrassed tears. Wiping them off in anger, I slammed shut my appointment book, threw on my coat and scarf and got ready to leave.
I was losing my touch. I couldn't connect anymore. I couldn't feel people anymore. For fuck's sake, I couldn't even feel myself. Was this a sex thing? I kept pushing Leo away, I knew I did, but I just couldn't ...do that right now. Not with him. Not with the stress of the wedding. With all the stress of ...of ...of what? My life going perfectly according to plan? I frowned hard and tried to get a grip on myself, thinking how pathetic I must have seemed right then. What the hell was wrong with me?
I opened the door again and gasped at the figure standing right in front of me. Before I could say anything, a pair of heavy black arms reached for me, spun me round hard and threw me to the floor. My bag dropped to the ground; spilling its contents right across the tiles, and in a heartbeat a hand went to my mouth to squeeze shut my screams.
I kicked and wriggled desperately against the wall of flesh behind me, but both my hands were pinned behind me with his other hand, and I was being viciously backed away, pulled from the practice and dragged backwards through the front door. My screams turned into desperate muffled moans against the gloved hand as I staggered to find my feet again. But it all happened so quickly. I was instantly outside in the chill air and then just as quickly thrown into a vehicle, where a strip of cloth was yanked across my mouth and another one knotted over my eyes, blotting everything out.
I lay on my side and tried to kick at the now closed door. The car was moving! Unseen hands moved quickly over me and soon my hands and feet were strapped together with painful cable ties. I bucked and kicked for a while, till a firm, angry hand pressed itself to the back of my neck and held me down, the pressure squeezing against my throat feeling like a threat all in itself. I swallowed hard and felt a torrent of tears seeping into the material of my blindfold. Shaking uncontrollably, my body went numb as the fear of what was happening washed over me.
"She's hot," said a disembodied voice.
"Don't be a pig, it's not like that," said another voice, closer to me and to the right.
Both voices laughed, dry and cynical.
"Bit of a waste, though, right?" said the first voice. "Come on, at the next light, lift her shirt, I wanna see."
"No way. Shut up. I told you it's not like that," said the second.
My heart was beating so hard it felt like a drum in my ears.
"Come on, just a peak. I bet she's got really great tits."
"Fucking animal" came the other voice.
My entire body prickled up as I thought I felt someone reach over and touching my stomach. But the touch never came. Instead we drove on in silence, nothing but my roaring heartbeat in my ears, and the horrifying realization that something was happening to my body.
I was wet.
Chapter 11 - Leo
"I understand that, but she wouldn't have gone anywhere, she wouldn't have just stopped answering her phone, she wou--"
"Sir, please calm down, what I'm trying to tell you is that we can't open an investigation just because she stopped answering your calls."
My jaw tightened and I tried to remind myself to breathe. This wasn't like her. She never did this. Sophia was a list maker. She was organized. She was never late. And she never, ever ignored my calls.
"Look," I said, "it's not just my calls she's not taking."
"Have you contacted her family? Her workplace?"
"She doesn't have any family and her work ...are you really telling me there's nothing you can do about this?"
"Again, sir, we can look into it but to be honest, the most likely outcome is that she's simply cut contact with you, we see this kind of thing all the time."
"What? No. That's not what happened. Something's gone wrong, I'm telling you."
"Sir, please calm down. Is she currently employed?"
"Sure."
"Well, if she doesn't turn up at her place of work the next time she's supposed to, then we can start looking into filing a report for--"
"But it's Friday today."
"So that gives you two the whole weekend to sort out your little disagreement."
My fingers tightened round the phone. I couldn't believe what I was hearing. I couldn't believe that someone could just disappear and that the Police were so casual about it. Right now, she could be... I tried not to even think about it. In my mind I saw her face flashing across a TV screen, but squeezed my eyes to clear my head and thanked the officer, hung up and flung the phone across the room.
I paced around the room like a caged animal, kicked the sofa, then scrambled to pick up my phone again. Though it felt like I had just gargled acid, I cleared my throat, dialed another number and held the phone to my ear.
"What happened to her?" I shouted the instant he picked up.
"Who the fuck is this?" came a dopey voice.
"It's Leo. Where is she? What have you done to her?" I said, realizing how easily my voice was untethering from the forced politeness from the last call and becoming a scream. I heard him inhale and exhale slowly on the other end of the line.
"Well? Answer me or so help me I'll find you and fucking skin you alive you piece of sh--"
"Leo! Relax! Can you just calm down a second?"
"I swear if one more person tells me to--"
"What happened to who? Who are you talking about?"
I wanted to scream.
"Did you do this? Is this Vito trying to scare me? I already fucking told you that I'm done helping you. Is this a threat?" I yelled. My voice seemed to echo in the silence. Eventually Joe spoke up again, this time sounding genuinely confused.
"Your girl? Cindy?" he said quietly.
"Sophia," I spat.
"She's gone missing?"
My blood ran cold. I could have handled them taking her. At least I could have done something about that. But he ...seemed sincere.
"You're not behind any of this? You didn't do something to her?" I said, my mind reeling.
"Pfft, do something to her? Fuck, now who's living in the low budget gangster movie, huh? Who do you think I am?"
I had to sit down to keep my head from spinning.
"If you haven't taken her, then who has?" I asked miserably, then said all at once, without thinking, "can you help me find her?"
"You got a lot of nerve calling me up, you know that? See what I mean? I'm a filthy good-for-nothing when we ask for your help, but now that you need our help, well, lookie here, now the shoe's on the other foot..."
"You gotta help me find her."
"I don't gotta do nothing, kid," he said with poison in his voice.
"Who would have done this, though...? I thought Vito..." I said, squeezing my temples to get my head to stop thumping.
Joe was chuckling low under his breath.
"Vito's the least of your problems, pal. I told you, these new kids are dangerous. They weren't raised right. I don't even recognize this city anymore, I swear."
"What are you talking about?"
"Don't you fucking listen? I told you already. Shawn T. He's behind this FBI bullshit, he's behind every pile of shit we've stood in this whole year. His dad was Big Casper, remember Big Casper?"
I felt like I wanted to puke.
"How the hell would I know someone called 'Big Casper'?"
"How the hell should you know? You only delivered boxes to him every Sunday when you was a kid, didn't you?"
His words were like a slap to the face.
"How do you know about the boxes?" I asked quietly. I hadn't thought about the boxes in forever. I hadn't thought about them in so long that I had convinced myself that none of it actually happened. Not really.
"Nevermind how I know, I know a lot of things. I don't know what you and Vito were up to back in the day, but whatever you two put in those damned boxes pissed them off so hard we're still dealing with the fallout now."
It felt as if my entire world had been burnt right in the center by a cigarette lighter flame, and was now rapidly crumbling and folding in on itself through a black, singed hole, getting bigger and bigger.
"They know who you are, pal, I can tell you that much."
"They?"
"Shawn T and his guys. That's why Uncle Vito needed to redirect the containers through you. The family's crumbling. We've been trying to save some of the cash at least by putting it all in one big shipment before the investigation got too far. Shawn T knew if he played his cards right he could swoop in and take our territories by the docks and snatch the new shipment while we were exposed. But Shawn must know about you. That's all I can think of to explain it. You lost your girl? I'd say it's him you should be calling."
My mind raced to try and process what he was saying.
"I need to speak to Vito," I said quietly.
"Well, good luck finding him, buddy."
"So, this Shawn T...?"
"Yeah, shit's hit the fan. Vito may be dead already. I don't know. But your girl going missing is kind of good news for us."
"Why?"
"Because if Shawn T's going after you, it means he hasn't been able to get to Vito yet. It means he's desperate..."
"Wait, you think this guy kidnapped Sophia? But why?"
"Because he wants that shipment. And he thinks you're the one Vito would hide it with. Fuck, I don't know, these hooligans have no sense, who the hell knows what they're thinking."
"I have to find him."
The line went quiet.
"Kid, you don't know what you're getting yourself into."
"They took her! She might be in danger!" I yelled, leaping to my feet and screaming into the phone. I felt sick that this was all my fault. That I had gotten her involved in all of this.
"Hey, buddy, calm down, OK?"
I felt my voice crack.
"What the fuck am I gonna do, Joe? The Police..."
"Woah woah woah, the Police? Kid, you can't call the Police, you moron."
"I can't?"
He sighed loudly.
"You just forgotten that you're in the illegal imports business now, or...?"
I gulped.
"Keep your mouth shut. Just stay calm. Now if I know these kids, they won't let up until they get what they want from you. They know what we're sitting on and they know that if they can get Vito out of the picture, they can swoop in on the spoils."
"So what? They want me to tell them where the shipment is? I don't even know where it is. You haven't delivered it yet. Where is it?"
Joe sighed.
"Your guess is as good as mine."
Silence.
"I'll do whatever it takes to get her back, Joe. I don't care. This shipment business, this bullshit about the containers, I don't care, I just want her back."
"Please help me," I begged. The line was quiet for a long time before Joe exhaled loudly again.
"Ok, here's what we're gonna do. I think I know where we can find this fucker..."
Chapter 12 - Sophia
I had never smelt so much perfume in one place in all my life. I had never even been to a strip club before. And I had especially never been to the back room of a strip club before. But even though it looked pretty much how I would have guessed, I was struck most by the smell.
Thick, acrid clouds of a million mixed up scents choked me up in the semi-darkness. A flash of a naked, glittery breast here, a glossy lip laughing in the darkness there. It was like a seedy carnival, or a house of horrors where the girls disappeared clothed and came back with nothing on but a thin film of sweat and the last little bits of a fake smile on their lips.
I sat crouched small on the floor, looking up at two women who had only half noticed my presence, and seemed more intent on piling on as much mascara as humanly possible. One was dark skinned and had a tight, boyish ass, and breasts that hung full and heavy, the other was a redhead with a tattoo of an ankh just above her navel.
I watched it all unfold like a dream, hands still bound behind me, my head thumping and my mind coming slowly back to consciousness.
The events of the last few hours, if that is indeed how much time had passed, were like scattered puzzle pieces. I had a dim sense of things - of being abducted, of black-gloved hands, of the shameful feeling of my fear taking on an excited, sexual edge - but my muddled mind was having difficulty putting them all together.
I must have been drugged, or hit, because my head was pounding and I couldn't recall how I had landed up here. My mouth was dry and I felt a weird, wriggling sense of fear deep in the pit of my stomach. I wondered if anything had been done to me, while I was unconscious. More alarming than that, though, was the horror that just thinking about it was making me wet again.
I blinked hard to try and gather myself and focused again on the strippers, who were chatting idly and primping in the mirrors. I had spent the better part of my life learning to read and understand the body. To speak its language. But at that moment I had no idea whether I was hungry or scared or horny as hell. I just ached.
"What you staring at?"
The redhead shot me a sharp look.
"Nothing."
"What's she here for anyway? A new girl?" she said, ignoring my response and speaking directly to the other stripper.
"No idea, baby. JD said to ignore her, so..."
The redhead continued to look down at me with something halfway between pity and curiosity.
"You speak English?" she said slowly, mascara wand still hovering in her hand.
"Yeah."
"You're going to dance? Work with Peter?"
I didn't know. Dance? Like on a stage? Stripping? What a preposterous idea. But everything that had happened to me so far was about as preposterous. And Peter? I shuddered to think what that 'work' would entail.
"I don't know," I said and tried to convey as little emotion in my voice as possible. The other striper was chuckling under her breath and applying some sort of lotion all up and down her neck.
"Lily, if she had met Peter already, she'd know about it, don't you think?" she said. The way she said it made my skin crawl.
"They hurt you or anything? They do anything to you?" the redhead asked, lifting an already massively arched eyebrow at me.
"Lilly, leave her be. They said to make like she isn't even here."
"I'm just asking her questions."
The redhead loomed over me and then peeked behind to look at my bound hands.
"They tied her up though. Seems mean."
"Lily, leave it alone for fuck's sakes."
But Lily was already leaning over me and cutting the cable ties on my hands with a tiny pair of nail scissors. The blood rushing into my fingers was almost painful.
"You scared, honey?" she said, ignoring the other's disapproving looks.
I said nothing.
"You got a guy or something?"
"A guy?"
"Yeah, you married? Boyfriend?"
I was mesmerized by the glitter on her nipples. For some stupid reason, I pictured myself with glittery nipples. Maybe this was my life now. Maybe I had slipped into some parallel universe and now I would have to dance and wear too much perfume and ...do things with Peter.
"Yeah, I have a boyfriend, so?"
"He into anything shady? What work does he do?"
"Why?"
She stood tall again and shrugged.
"Well, that'll go some way to explaining how you got here, that's all. Don't listen to anyone who says money's the root of all evil. Men are the root!" she said and laughed to herself.
"He's not ...he would never be involved in any," I said, my brain waking up to the crazy idea that this could have anything to do with Leo.
The redhead shrugged.
"So you landed here by accident, huh? Seems kinda weird, huh?"
"Lily, if you're done torturing the poor girl, you're on in a minute," the other one said and jostled her breasts so they hung better in her halter top.
The ache returned. What if Leo did have something to do with 'this'?
The redhead took a pinch of some brownish powder from a little jar attached to her belt and snorted it quickly, rubbing her nostrils and taking one more quick look at her reflection. I could tell the music outside had stopped and some people were applauding.
"Coke?" I asked.
She looked at me.
"No, ma'am. Not for a while now. This is that new shit. This is PK, this is stuff that cocaine takes when it's having a bad day..." she said and laughed again. "You know it?"
"I've been clean for more than a decade," I said. "And I've never looked back. I don't need that stuff anymore."
She gave me a strange look, then smiled at me.
"Honey, everyone needs a drug. We're human. We can't live without our addictions. We're all dying anyway, right? Something kills us all eventually. Might as well choose the drug that kills you the slowest, that's what I say. Choose one you're willing to die for," she said, with a faraway look in her eyes.
The other stripper snorted at her little speech.
"Lily, you're almost on, get out of here."
"Well I'm not addicted to anything," I said.
"Sure you are."
"No, I'm not. You snort that stuff and strip and you think that's just fine?" I realized I didn't want her to go. I didn't want to be alone here in the room, or with my ...thoughts.
"Damn straight I do," she said.
"So those men just ogle you, and abuse you, and--"
"Honey, look at it this way, those men out there have their addictions too. I've been poor. I've been pretty desperate. But I've never been so desperate that I'll throw money at a girl who shows me her titties. You get that? You want to lecture someone, lecture those men out there. Maybe it's me abusing them," she said and winked at me. In a second she had flounced out the room, high heels clacking, and slammed the door behind her.
"Don't mind her, that shit's cooking her brain," the other one said with a scowl, still not turning to look at me.
Something buzzed and the stripper scrambled to answer her phone, then wandered out through a corridor and away till I couldn't hear her voice anymore. I examined my raw wrists, tried to stand on wobbling legs, then made a dash for the door.
Outside was a landing - down below seemed to be a series of heavy black curtains and the source of the music, a dull thumping trance beat that seemed to reverberate through the walls. The stage? I turned to look at my other option: a staircase going up. It'd have to do.
I raced up, legs still shaky, and found another door, unlocked. I opened it a crack, then opened it more fully. Inside, it was a small room, dimly lit, with a plain wooden desk holding up a mountain of paperwork.
I went over to see files, bank statements, random envelopes. Under this was a thick yellow folder, which I opened. A woman's photo caught my eye, it was accompanied by stats - her age, height, weight, eye color, nationality. The folder would have looked like a modelling agency's portfolio were it not for the row of dollar figures handwritten at the bottom of each page.
My eye paused on "$450 000". Some higher amounts, some very small. I turned the page. A 16-year-old girl with brown eyes. Underneath her name was "$25 000" scratched with amounts subtracted from it till it was "$1000", with a little smiley face scribbled beside the amount.
I dropped the folder and broke out into a cold sweat.
Not just stripping.
Not just prostitution.
The amounts in this book were too high. I gulped and looked around the rest of the room, shaking hands rummaging through whatever I could find. The music pumped away down below, muffled like it was coming from deep in the ocean somewhere, not real somehow. But the men who had abducted me were real. If they found me here...
I had to find a way to get out of here, no question. They could kill me. Or worse. My fingers found a beat-up looking notebook with some more handwritten numbers. Codes. Passwords. Why would anybody leave such a thing in the open like this? I felt around in my pockets - my phone had been taken from me.
I looked over my shoulder, stuffed the notebook into my pocket and rushed out again, clicking the door closed behind me. I was on the stairwell again, and mercifully the stripper's room was still empty. I heard footsteps and laughing coming up the other stairwell and sped inside so quickly I thought I'd have a heart attack.
I threw myself back onto the floor and thrust my hands behind me, trying to look like I hadn't budged. A dangerous looking mountain of a man walked in, took one look at me and then frowned.
"You awake?" he said, and then peered around the room.
"Tay? Tay, where the fuck are you?" he bellowed, and then peered round the corner to where I had seen the stripper walk off.
The moment went liquid and electrified all around me. The beat from the music below seemed to press itself right to the front of my consciousness, travelling up from the ground into my bones; my body ignited. Something hot and sticky was buzzing at my core as I watched his form move around the room, menacing. The adrenaline became like static snapping through my veins. But it wasn't fear.
It was something far, far more delicious.
I stared out the still opened door and thought about making a run for it. There was nothing in this room to use as a weapon. I could never fight him - he was three times my size.
But maybe I could run.
Just as my muscles were firing up and my spine coiled up and tightened to spring to action, I heard more voices come up the stairwell, and in an instant, two people had blustered up, throwing their bodies against the wall. Both me and the man-mountain turned to look.
A drunk looking guy was pawing at a giggling stripper, who was practically naked and trailing the last of her clothing on the spike of her high heal. The guy kissed ravenously at her chest, her stomach, her arms and shoulders, and she flung back her head and gave a big, juicy laugh. In an instant her one leg was hoisted up almost to under her armpit, the guy shirked off his trousers and I caught a glimpse of his swollen cock before he threw himself into her and she laughed even louder.
No sooner was he inside her did he begin to fuck savagely, each pump bumping her hard into the wall and up a few inches, her long black hair and bangles shaking as their hips slapped into each other again and again. The guy curled himself up into her and pawed at her waist, pulling her down hungrily onto him.
I couldn't believe my eyes. They were just ...fucking. Right here. Like animals.
I turned to see the man-mountain watching the spectacle with me, through the door where the two seemed not to have noticed us in the slightest. He turned to look at me and our eyes met. The heat in my spine seemed to nearly engulf me. I swallowed. For a moment it looked like he was preparing to yell at them, but when he saw my face, something strange crept into his expression instead, then he smiled slowly.
"You like that?" he asked, something mocking in his voice.
My eyes went wide.
He chuckled and looked me over, and I swear I felt every cell in my body spike to attention as he did. He was ugly. He was dirty. He looked positively evil. So why was I sitting demurely in front of him, head tilted a little to the side, staring right back at him as he gave me that filthy look?
I shook my head clear and tore my eyes from his. He turned his attention to the drama unfolding on the stairwell.
"The fuck is wrong with you people? Get out of here, Tasha, that's it, you're off, go the fuck home, I'm sick of this happening," he yelled out into the doorway and then slammed the door on their surprised faces. Then he turned to look at me.
"I swear this place is falling apart right before my eyes," he said to nobody in particular. Then he noticed I wasn't really bound at the wrists anymore, and his face got even angrier.
He leapt forward, grabbed me hard by both shoulders and shook me.
"You got free, huh, little bitch." He then flung me hard back down on the ground. The other stripper came back into the room, a look of panic flashing over her face the instant she saw the man-mountain.
"JD, I'm so sorry, I just took a call..." she said and backed out of the room a few steps.
JD looked so angry he might bite through his own jaw.
"Just get out and do your fucking set", he hissed at her, his eyes throwing daggers at her near-nude, sparkly body.
She hurried off in the direction of the stage, belt tinkling behind her, and slammed the door. Now I was alone with him.
"You trying to run away or what?" he said as he looked around for something to tie me up again.
"Why am I here? Why are you doing this?" I said, realizing how trembly my voice was.
"How about you shut up, huh? It's not enough I have to babysit everyone in this fucking hole, now I have answer your stupid questions?" he said, and started rummaging through the makeup drawers like he wanted to punch something.
"You've made a mistake. Please just tell me why I'm here. I don't know what's going on. Please don't hurt me." But as these last few words left my lips, he looked at me again and I felt, I actually felt something kick inside my body. What was I saying? He could hurt me if he wanted to. He could kill me with his bare hands.
He looked me over again, top to bottom, as though sizing me up. In that moment, he knew it and I knew it. At that moment, he could have done anything he wanted to me and I would be powerless to stop it. I swallowed hard and stared at him, even though I was so petrified it felt like I had forgotten how to breathe.
"You pushing me, little bitch?"
He said it quietly, almost a whisper. A threat. It sent a sick, strange little thrill through me. I said nothing, just kept looking into his small, black eyes. I could tell his hands had clenched by the way the muscles in his forearms and biceps tightened and bulged. His nostrils flared.
I stared back at him.
"If you fucking make another peep, you're going to be sorry," he said again, in an even lower voice than before. He had stepped closer, and the sheer size of him felt like it eclipsed my small, crouched body. Like his very form cast a shadow over me and made me shiver deeply.
I parted my lips. Maybe I would make a peep. He wanted to threaten me? So what?
"You know what I think, JD?" I said, loud and clear. "I think you're just a hired meathead who's supposed to be looking after me, and if you fuck up I think the real person who's in charge here is going to be pretty pissed at you."
I had no idea what I was doing. His jaw dropped as I spoke, and he unclenched his fists, truly surprised that I had talked back.
"So let's not pretend that you can lay a hand on me. I bet you'd like that, though, wouldn't you...?"
I didn't know what I was saying. I only knew it seemed to come from somewhere deep inside, from that deep, liquid, crackling, electrified stirring in the pit of my belly, somewhere at the base of my spine, between my legs.
He stared dumbfounded at me, unable to speak. I saw the tiny muscles twitch in his immense jaw. I lowered my head and locked eyes with him. I could tell he was doing his best not to stare at my body. I could tell he was thinking about it. He could tell that I was thinking about it.
He snorted loudly and tore away his gaze, then found a string and bound my wrists again, without any finesse or mercy, and I smiled quietly to myself as he did so, a weird thrill of triumph washing over me.
I had never done something so outrageous.
And it had never felt so good.
I squeezed my eyes shut as he came round to stand in front of me again, and, kneeling square in front of his crotch, I squared my shoulders and dared him internally to do something. Anything. I didn't care. I wasn't scared. But what was I, then? I don't know. He didn't know either. But it felt good.
He left, muttering under his breath, just as the redhead came back in from her set. She winced a little as her eyes met with JD's for a second before he disappeared and she came into the room and looked down at me.
"You ok?" she asked. Her perfume was like a thick, intoxicating hug around me.
"I'm fine," I said, but I was more than fine. "But I need to get out of here."
She looked down at me with pity, then at the door, then at me again. She handed me her cellphone from inside one of the drawers and waved her hands at me.
"You can use that. But quickly, ok? Just the once so make it count."
My fingers were shaking violently as I started to type a message to Leo.
Chapter 13 - Leo
I'm sitting, throwing rocks at the corrugated storage facility doors. If I stare at it hard enough and stop thinking about everything, I can start to imagine that it sounds like sadness. Like the metal is crying or something.
Someone appears next to me.
"Leo Bianchi?" he says. I hate it when people say my name like that. Like an accusation.
"Who wants to know?"
A thick wad of fifties lands at my feet, just like that, making no sound at all. I look up to a see a guy smiling.
"That's for you."
I snatch at it and stuff the money under my coat pocket, then get ready to scram.
"Who are you?" I ask.
"Friend of Vito's. He said you could probably use the help," he says as he looks down at my broken shoes. "You gotta do a little favor for him, though."
I look up at him suspiciously.
"What favor?"
The guy looks over his shoulder and pretends to kick around some of the stones, like he's not doing anything at all, like he's never done any particular thing in his life and nobody could ever prove it in a court of law.
"You go over to the corner of Fifty-seventh and Main, you look in a big blue trash can, OK? In there you see a plastic bag and in there's a box. Take the box out, throw the bag away. You give the box to the guy at this address."
I see him take out a lighter to light a cigarette and as he does so he drops a small note scribbled with an address on it. I don't pick it up.
"You knock, you say Vito sent you, you give him the box. Then you fuck off and say nothing to anyone. You got a mother or something? Family?"
I say nothing.
"Well, if you got someone, go and visit them immediately after, OK?"
Before I can say anything he's turned around and walked off, like nothing happened, and the only proof he was even there is the little note still lying on the floor.
Later, when I fetch the box from Fifty-seventh and Main, it feels heavy and cold in my hands. When I stop to think about it, I imagine it feels like fear. Like guilt. I think how glad I'll be to get rid of it.
The guy who opens the door is big, with skin is the color of an eggplant and his eyes are tired looking and bloodshot. He takes the parcel from me and I run away as fast I can. I run before he opens it. I run even before he has time to look at me, time to close the door. I run, feeling free and light without it. Outside, the sun is clear and bright and when I stop to think about it, it feels a bit like relief. I hug the money against my chest and daydream about what I'm going to do with it all.
I squeezed my eyes tight till they stopped burning. There was no point in being upset about any of that anymore.
The past was the past.
What good was stewing over the past when I had big enough problems right here, in the present? Sophia was missing, it was my fault, and now I had to find a way to get her back. It had been a long time since I had dealt with men like this, but I could never forget the way they work. When they say 'family' they mean 'guilt'. When they say a man is 'loyal' they mean 'he's got no other choice'. And when they threaten something you care about, well that's the loudest message of all.
Them interfering with me - by all accounts an outsider - was a challenge that couldn't be ignored, something designed to catch my attention whether I liked it or not. And now that this 'Shawn T' had my attention, I planned to make him sorry he ever tried it.
I paced the apartment. I hadn't been able to think straight since she disappeared. Everything in the house seemed pointless without her. Just a waste. Why have any of these rooms without her inside them to laugh or putter around or sing in the kitchen? Why was the sun bothering to even rise this morning when she wasn't home, here with me, in my arms?
But the infuriating truth was I had nothing. I had no idea what I was dealing with, or who. I had no connections, no strings to pull, and worse than all that, I didn't want to get my hands dirty. I wracked my brain for a favor to call in somewhere, for some plan I hadn't thought through. But I could think of nothing. All I had was the word of some fat guy call Joe Smith and a scribbled address.
Joe said he needed to think. With Vito out of the picture the whole house of cards was falling and he needed time, he said, to make his next move.
But I didn't have time.
My stomach was in knots just thinking of where she was right now. What she was doing. Whether she was scared. It was all too much. I squeezed my eyes shut again and prayed for a sign. Then my phone beeped. It was from a number I didn't recognize.

I've been abducted and I'm at some kind of strip club. I'm OK but I don't know why I'm here. They have me locked up but I'm going to try to escape. Please help :( :( I'm afraid of what I'm going to do here

My heart stopped. It was her. My wide eyes ran over the same message a million times over, as if I could find her by just reading the words enough times. Some kind of strip club? My fingers flew across the screen and typed a response.

Sit tight, stay safe I'm going to come and get you, don't worry, I love you!

I hit enter but the message failed to send. The number it came from had already blocked me. What the fuck? I broke into a cold sweat. At least she was alive! I ran my hands over my face and tried to think. There had to be dozens of strip clubs in this city. I thought of calling the Police but instantly imagined Joe's stern face. No. It had to be me. She was safe now, but until when?
I took another look at the address on the slip of paper. I had no idea who Shawn T was, and quite frankly I didn't care. I got to my feet and went over the bathroom, kneeling down in front of the cabinet. Thumping the side with the heel of my hand I released a small flap on the bottom which I then pulled, opening a secret compartment inside. From this compartment I carefully slid out my Glock and tucked it into the band of my jeans, then picked up the .22 revolver, examined it for a moment then slid that in the front underneath my hoodie.
Still on my knees, I whipped out my phone and called a number that rang only once before a familiar voice picked up.
"Hey."
"I'm going after him," I said.
Silence.
I could hear Joe thinking on the other side of the line.
"You sure about that? Shawn T's a dangerous man..."
"He took my girlfriend. You know for a fact he's there? At the address you gave me?"
"Yeah, it's like his vacation home, like a summer house. But kid, can you wait? Let me gather some muscle, let me--"
"I'm not waiting. She could be in trouble. I'm going right now."
Silence.
I could tell he didn't take me seriously. None of them did. But I didn't care. This had gone far enough, and I was now going to end it.
"Good luck," he said, and hung up.
Chapter 14 - Sophia
I know it's just my imagination, but it feels as if the bright spotlights on my near-naked skin have set each and every tiny hair on fire. I'm wearing next to nothing, but have never felt more covered, covered in light, covered in greedy gazes from the darkness around me, covered in my own veil of thrilling fear... I'm sucking it all through my pores.
I'm sparkling.
I stand for a while, a deer in headlights, waiting for death. But they don't kill me. They applaud.
I take one ginger step out onto the stage, and then another, my feet light and empty like they belong to someone else, and the small crowd around me erupts in cheers. I stand still for a moment, knowing all at once how I must look to them: a naïve, 'normal' girl, one who doesn't belong here. No self-tanner, no fake tits, no hair extensions. In a way, I'm more obscene than that.
My heart's beating so hard in my ears that I don't hear the announcer's voice blaring over the speaker, but the music starts up and the lights dim. And now I have to dance. In front of all of them. I have to slowly remove what few items of scanty clothing I'm wearing, and writhe around, and tease, and taunt, for the pleasure of those shadowy faces gathered loosely around and beneath the stage.
They're all perverts.
They're disgusting.
Or maybe I'm disgusting? I can't really figure it out in my mind, but as I raise my snaking arms up over my head, what I feel is not disgusting. What I feel is delicious. I know that every eye in the room is on me, the weird outsider who's on a dare, on drugs, on vacation, something. Everyone senses that this is no ordinary dance, and pricks their ears toward the tacky stage. This feels real. This feels dangerous. They're watching to see me expose myself. So, I decide to give them what they want. Or is it what I want?
I look out at the hungry, amorphous faces and all at once they blend together and become one face: his. I see Leo out there, veiled in shadows and watching me with hunger in his dark eyes. The thought makes my hips tilt to one side, then to the other, serpentine, as though it's the eyes that are doing it.
I tilt my head back and let my hair fall to graze the bare skin of my back. I shake my head as well, slowly and side to side. I have never danced like this before. Not for anyone else. Not in the privacy of my own home. Not even in the privacy of my own fantasies. But the movements come naturally all the same.
His eyes are on me, and I'm dancing all the things I want. What he wants. My hips describe the arcs and curls of the more horizontal motions I'm imagining in my mind. It's not a dance to suggest fucking. It is fucking; only he's not here.
I arch my back and thrust out my breasts to offer them to his gaze. I stretch out long and lean, moving with the low, heavy beat, imagining that he is the source of that rhythm, he is the pulse, he is the unstoppable force that moves me.
Aside from the music, the room is now strangely silent around me. I step further out onto the precipice of the stage, where the light is brightest and I can see barely anything of the crowd below. My body melts. I have never been more terrified in my life. Or more aroused. I slink my hands behind my back and unlatch the bra I've been given. My breasts bounce free, relief washing over me as the tight, flimsy thing is dropped to the floor.
There are no cheers. But I can feel the gaze on me intensify all the same. The entire room is watching me. The lights, the eyes, even the space between the eyes are prickled tight and observing my every move. I shake my shoulders and feel it go through my breasts, each nipple now tight and hard. I slip my thumbs into the rim of my g-string and hover there, teasing, threatening.
It's all for him. All for Leo.
Why had I never done this for him before? Never danced? Never flicked my hair or waggled my ass on his lap? I realized all at once that I wanted nothing more than for him to look at me like that, to move for him, to watch his face respond to me.
A mere hour ago, I was sure I was going to be killed. JD had found me scrambling around to free my hands, looking for an exit, and had slammed me against the wall. I had laughed in his face and told him to do his worst. He sneered and told me I was pushing my luck, and taking up room, and that he was sick of babysitting me. And I had said, "so what, are you going to force me to work?" And then we had both stared at each other, me more shocked than him.
And he had laughed and shook his head. He had released me and muttered something about how crazy I was. How he'd like to see me try. And so here I was. I had been kidnapped by unknown people for unknown reasons and was stashed here in a seedy strip club and, most insane of all, some small, sick part of me was enjoying it. It was insane. I was insane. But even still, some irresistible force kept drawing me along. The same force that was moving my hips now. The same force that felt like it was penetrating my very mind, in the form of his gorgeous face. The same force that was building up inside me, roaring somewhere deep inside my core, radiating through my hips like something molten, something so hot it melted all resistance.
I bent over; ass in the light, my legs stretched straight and teetering on the cheap Perspex heals. I hovered here for a moment, relishing the thought of them relishing me, and then snapped back upright again, flicking my hair and arching my back into a back bend that put my naked chest on full display. I bent at the knees, realizing that squeezing my legs together only made the ache between them more intense, and then shimmied down, snaking off my g-string in one long, fluid movement.
I kicked it up with the spike of my heel and caught it, then flung it out into the crowd, which responded instantly with a dozen hands reaching out from the void to catch it. The room throbbed and hummed around me, but it was nothing compared to the throbbing I felt inside. I tilted and swirled my hips, lost in the music, lost in the madness of it all, wishing with all my heart that he were here to see me. He was the only one I wanted to dance for. It was all for him. I was for him. I was his.
When the music stopped, so did I. My body came to rest in the center of the stage and the only thing left moving was my chest, gasping for air. The room was silent, and then all at once exploded into surprised applause. I had entertained them. They hadn't expected any of that. I was the outsider. Just someone's girlfriend, someone's sister, a girl gone a little crazy, a girl who wasn't really meant to be there. I was supposed to be awkward. I wasn't supposed to enjoy it this much. In fact, some depraved part of me got a kick out of knowing that they might even be able to see how turned on I was, that the molten fire in my belly might have melted right out of me and slicked the inside of my thighs, so they could see that not only did I move like a degenerate whore, but I was one, inside and out.
I turned on my heel and walked off stage, back into the fold of the thick black curtain behind me. I couldn't resist the ridiculous grin that now seemed plastered to my face. I wobbled on my heels down the steps and into the back room, but as I did, the friction of my legs moving past each other sent the most delicious jolt all through my body. All at once something ignited and exploded inside me and I started to come.
A strange, intense orgasm rushed through me like I was being electrified. I yelped and reached out for the railing and steadied myself there, stunned as tight wave after wave kicked through my naked body. It was unbelievable. When I finally managed to hobble into the dressing room, hands still trembling, JD and the two strippers were standing out in front, mouths hanging open.
"Girl, you sure you've never done that before?" said the redhead, laughing nervously.
I could do nothing but laugh with her. I had no words. JD looked at me, but his expression was different now. He didn't seem so angry anymore.
I basked in the feeling that he had dared me, he had pushed me, and I had done it. I was un-humiliatable. In fact, I killed it. I don't know how. I don't know why. But like a dream unfolding around me, the impossible seemed to be happening, and I was at the center of it, naked, panting, and still twitching a little. I had to be insane. I'd surely wake up soon and discover that all of this had been a dream. Or a nightmare. A delicious, dirty nightmare.
They started to all talk rapidly but in my flustered state all I could hear was Leo's voice. All I could think of was how desperate I was to hear his approval. "That was pretty good, I knew you had a little something about you..." It all came in his voice. I tried to take deep breaths as I put my clothing back on, coming back to reality.
The redhead was preparing to dance again and the other started doing her nails. When I had gathered myself I lifted my head to see JD standing over me, that strange look still in his eyes.
"Here, you earned it," he said and handed over a bunch of notes. I eyed it suspiciously. It was $300.
"Take it. You got balls, I'll give you that."
I took the notes and stashed them in my pocket. We locked eyes for a moment, a new sense of shared respect between us, then I turned around and offered him my wrists.
"Well?" I said. We both paused for a moment, taking in the ridiculousness of it all, then he gently began to knot a rope round my hands. He tugged it once, patted me on the back and turned me around by my shoulders. It wasn't exactly 'sorry about kidnapping you', but it felt pretty close.
I sighed and went over to the corner and slumped down into it. Like a kick to the chest, the thought of Leo now only made me sad. I missed him terribly. If I could just morph into a stripper with the slightest provocation, what's to say that he wasn't also ...that he also ...?
The thought that Leo could have some hidden, secret life from me infuriated for me for a split second. But then it excited me. I kept imagining what he would think, if he could see me now. I tried to imagine his face when I told him that dancing naked on a stage in front of a crowd of dirty old men had turned me on so much it had literally made me come. And what's more, I had come with to the thought of him. I couldn't explain it. I only knew that something dark and dormant had woken up on that strange, and it had frightened and thrilled me.
Had my life become so drained of color that even the cheap glitter and crude music of a strip club had seemed like an elixir to me? Wasn't I supposed to be the body expert? The woman with the golden hands, a devoted proponent of holistic healing and stress release and yoga and balanced living and clean eating and all the other crap? I nearly laughed out loud at the idea of it. All I had needed was some old-fashioned exhibitionism and a good, hard orgasm that hit me like a lightning bolt from heaven.
The ache in my chest deepened. I missed Leo. I had missed him for a long time. When had we stopped being thrilled with one another's bodies? When had I stopped wanting to coax out that look of bliss that only he could make, and only on the brink of pleasure?
The other two strippers, plus a third I didn't recognize, drifted in and out of the room as the evening wore on. I dozed, woke up again, dozed again, all in my little corner. Dreaming partly of running away, partly of just living here, forever, with all these strange new ideas that seemed to be springing into my mind.
It must have been the small hours of the morning when the music on the stage seemed to quieten a little, and then the one stripper went home. The redheaded stripper agreed to stay with me overnight until another girl came in the early morning to take over. I curled up with her on a makeshift bed in the corner of the dressing room, little flutters of adrenaline in my blood even then, and settled in for a surprisingly comfy sleep.
It was pitch black and quiet when she silently shook me awake and told me to get up.
"What are you doi--?"
"Shhh, just keep quiet" she hissed, and started guiding me to the door.
"Are we...?"
"Just pipe down, OK? Fatso outside has gone for a smoke so we've got a few minutes to make a run for it."
I could vaguely make out her quickly moving hands in the darkness as she packed up her bag with a few things and hastily threw on her shoes and a coat. I tried to do the same.
"Why are you helping me?" I whispered, as she peaked around the corner to see if the coast was clear.
"Let's just say my time here is up, too," she said, then hurried us both through the now deserted corridors.
The place was dark and cold and completely abandoned. It looked so bare without the strobing lights and patrons filling up the seats. A faint smell of beer and something stale hung in the air, but I almost didn't recognize the stage as we hurried past it. Had I really...? I must have lost my mind. I pulled my coat more tightly round my body and rushed after her. We scurried past a long bar and then out through a foyer, and eventually out through a small back door with a bar across it like a hospital door. The cold air outside immediately woke me up.
"Thank you," I said, still scampering after her as she moved swiftly down the alleyway, hugging the bare brick wall.
"No problem. Just get out of here, OK?" She reached into her purse and handed me a five dollar bill.
"What about you, though?" I asked, and stood looking after her like a lost puppy.
"I'm done with these guys. Shit's hitting the fan and I'm moving on."
"What do you mean?"
"The whole family's under investigation. You didn't hear it from me, but from what I've heard, the Feds already have 'em, they're building a case, they just need to know where big boss is hiding and then it's all over. I don't want to be around when that happens, you know?"
It was as though the cold was helping me think more quickly than I could in the thick smoke and perfume inside the club.
"What family? What 'big boss'?"
The look she gave me was a little like the one JD had given me earlier that night. Confused. A little pitying.
"Jesus, where did they find you? The Rosellis. Uncle Vito owns this place, obviously. Anyway, I've already stuck my neck out here, just scram, OK?" She turned to carry on down the alleyway.
"Wait, don't go!" I yelled after her.
"What?"
"Do you know Leo Bianchi?" I asked her.
"Never heard of the guy," she said, and in an instant she was gone.
I stood stunned for a moment. Vito Roselli? The guy who was permanently in the news for every crime you could think of plus all the ones you never had? The guy who's name shared newspaper space with big scary words like 'murder', 'trafficking' and 'drug ring'?
I quickly felt to check that the stolen notebook was still in my pocket. I had no phone, no money, and I had no idea where I was. I smelt like cheap perfume and hadn't slept properly in days.
I turned to walk in the other direction. I had to find Leo as soon as possible to understand what the hell was going on. It was a few hours before sunrise in a rundown neighborhood and I was alone and lost.
But as I walked a strange thought popped into my head: I wasn't scared. In fact, I was having the time of my life.
Chapter 15 - Leo
I didn't get what the big deal was. They just looked like fat cigarettes. How could such a thing cost so much money? But I kept my mouth shut. Vito had taken care of me, and as long as I didn't mess up, as long as I kept keeping my mouth shut, one day maybe I could blow lots of cash and stupid things like cigars. Or whatever was in those boxes.
Vito waved his hand for me to come stand at the table. Sometimes, he let me help out on quiet nights like these, when the guys came over and they had a friendly game of poker or whatever. They were all right. They teased me about the fluff growing on my top lip, and poked me in the ribs and slapped the back of my neck and called me 'kid', but when they knew that I was the one responsible for delivering the boxes, well, they usually went quiet and gave me a lot more respect. Or at least, it felt like respect back then. I didn't know what was inside them. I didn't need to know. It was just business, right?
"Hey kid, come over here, you want a drink?" he said to me.
I couldn't believe it. I was only thirteen. But sitting at Vito's table for a scotch wasn't an honor for just any old schlub, nevermind a loser like me.
I nodded and tried to play cool, and he poured me a glass of bright yellow liquid. He had his broad, gnarled hand on my shoulder, patting me affectionately.
"This kid, this kid's my real right hand man, ain't that right, Leo? This kids got balls on him. Smart. Good kid," he said and ruffled my hair.
"Hey Leo, you got a girlfriend or what?" cracked one of the guys across the table, and everyone laughed.
I was mortified. Puberty hadn't been kind to me. I was taller than I wanted to be, gangly. Full of spots.
"Nah," I said, voice breaking comically. The table burst out laughing.
"Vito, this kid's priceless. You should set him up with a nice young thing," said the same guy across the table.
I pretended that I wasn't following this line of conversation with laser-focus. The banter continued but then Vito turned to me, a little glazed in the eyes, that way he got some evenings, and smiled.
"Yeah? You'd like that? We got a girl upstairs for him?" he said and turned to Plank, who was on guard duty tonight but not happy about it. He eyed me with disgust, looked to Vito and then made his way silently upstairs.
When he came back down again, he had with him a quiet girl, her mousy hair pulled back into a braid and a cotton shirt with a print of the Simpsons on it, but like a knockoff one where all the colors were wrong. She made me feel sad. She was my age maybe, and didn't look at anyone in the room.
The guys took turns slapping my back and making jokes, but I suddenly didn't want to be there anymore. I knew about the girls. I had seen them coming and going, and I knew that other people were entrusted with that side of the business. I didn't ask questions. I had an idea of what happened with them, but I didn't like thinking about it too much.
"Boom, here's your girlfriend, Leo, you can thank me later," said Vito and cracked up laughing. The girl stood silently to the side like a statue.
"Vito, you sick fuck, he's just a kid. Christ. You down with this, Leo? You been with a girl before?" said a thin guy at the table.
I knew him a little from here and there, but I also knew Vito and him didn't get along. They all turned to look at me, expectant. My face burnt hot. I didn't want to do 'this' at all, but looking at Leo and how he was looking at me ...I had no choice.
"Yeah, I've been with loads of girl,s" I said, voice still croaking. Everyone at the table roared with laughter.
"Fuck's sake, Vito, this kid. Get outta here you two," said the first guy. Plank ushered me and the girl into an empty side room, and locked the door.
The girl and I stared at one another as we heard the laughter still coming from outside the door. I didn't know what to do. I tried to smile at her and hold out my hand for her to shake, but she just looked down at it, pityingly. Of course I had never been with a girl before. The thought terrified me.
Sometimes, late at night, I imagined I was some hot-shot businessman, like Vito, with whatever women I wanted, and they'd have to do whatever I said.
I looked up at her. She was small, my height but thinner, and her skin was so pale you could see a few of her veins poking out from her neck. Girls were an alien race to me. A mystery. I don't even think I had ever stood so close to one before.
I thought of leaning in and trying to kiss her. Of telling her to ...I don't know. To take her clothes off. To do stuff. I thought of what she might look like under those threadbare clothes. But then she took a step towards me and burst into tears.
"Please, please help me," she said in a quiet, strange accent.
But I didn't help her. I couldn't.

The guns hung heavy at my waist. Cold and heavy, like things that were once alive but not anymore. I felt them shift against my hipbones as I climbed into the car and started the ignition. I hadn't been myself lately. Not since she had gone. Not since I had started remembering things I'd much rather never happened in the first place. Bad things. Things I had put secretly in mysterious brown boxes and promptly forgotten.
But I couldn't run anymore.
I woke that morning with something new and dangerous inside me: I was done running. I was done being strung along like a puppet by a man who was too cowardly to speak to me man to man. My past had an ugly face, sure, but I was going to look it square in the eye ...and blow its brains out it if I needed to.
I had worked my way - no, crawled my way - to the success I had now. I was better now. Stronger. And Sophia deserved better from me. She was innocent in all this. Uncle Vito had haunted me one way or another ever since I was a kid. But I wasn't going to run forever. I wasn't going to be afraid. I was going to fight.
I pulled off and made my way out west to what looked like the middle of nowhere. The maps showed nothing but empty lots at these GPS coordinates, and I could find no registrations, no names, no businesses, nothing. The place was a black hole. But if it was the black hole where I could find this Shawn T fool, then that's where I was headed. I didn't fuck around with second hand messages, threats, suggestions. He was the guy responsible for kidnapping Sophia? Then he was the guy I wanted to talk to, face to face.
The highway soon flattened out and became uninteresting. Even the billboards and two-bit diners started to thin out until the landscape was more like a Rorschach test, and I started to imagine I was seeing things emerge from the bare, dry landscape around me. Vague memories sprang to life all around, wiggling in the faint heat shimmering off the black tar.
I swallowed hard and turned on the radio, but turned it quickly off again.
The further on I drove, the further away from my old self I seemed to get. It was getting easier to forget the 'good Leo' I had built from scratch back home. The Leo who paid his taxes and got an MBA and found a good, sweet girlfriend. But here alone in the car with nothing but dust and tarmac outside, my mind wandered. What the fuck did I actually think I was doing here? Was I some kind of cowboy?
The shrub grew denser as I finally got closer to the address, nearly two hours later. Eventually I pulled the car into a long, non-descript driveway that was more like a dirt road. No signs, no nothing. I would have easily driven past it if I hadn't known it was a driveway and not just some slight gap in the bushes. I drove for a few more minutes, my mind racing.
Fuck this Shawn T guy. Fuck Vito. And Fuck Sophia.
I blinked hard. Wait, where did that come from? But the more I thought about, and the closer I inched to a house that was tucked far off on the horizon amongst tall trees, the angrier I got.
Fuck her.
I slowed the car down and crept cautiously forward, unable to stop images flitting through my mind. I was done with the same old boring bedroom routine with her. Sick of the look of disappointment on her face. I didn't want coordinated pillows and incense.
I wanted to fuck.
To spread her pretty little goody-two-shoes ass right over the kitchen table and fuck her so hard and so good that she wouldn't be able to do anything but scream and come and beg for my forgiveness for being so fucking obsessed with all this wedding bullshit. Fuck her for wanting a staged bullshit Instagram proposal. Fuck talking about our fucking feelings. Fuck her for disappearing like this and leaving me. Fuck her for not wanting to fuck me...
I pulled up in front of a stately mansion that seemed completely at odds with the dry brush all around it. I shut off the engine and took a deep breath. I scanned quickly to see a few expensive looking cars parked around a curved driveway that arched up to a broad staircase. Something about the place gave me a dull, angry feeling right at the back of my throat. Who the hell was this guy, anyway?
I stepped out, closed the front door quietly, and took a few steps to the house, feet crunching on the gravel.
For all he knew, I was only coming to talk. To negotiate. If things went south, I wouldn't hesitate to do exactly what I needed to. In fact, maybe I secretly wanted things to go south.
The front door was, miraculously, slightly open. I guess with a place this well-hidden, there wasn't too much need for external security. As far as anyone was concerned, there wasn't even a residence here.
I peeped my head inside and heard laughter and music from down the hall. The place was all marble, glass and glitz. The kind of thing poor people buy when they're suddenly not poor anymore. The feeling at the back of my throat intensified. With silent feet, I crept to the source of the sound, weapons knocking softly at my waist. A pair of giant doors opened into to a room at the end of the hall. High pitched giggles and women talking over each other echoed off the tiled floors of the corridor.
I swung the doors open and stood there in the door frame, feet spread wide, arms at my side. I can look intimidating, when I want to. And I wanted to.
About a dozen faces swiveled around to see me there. Every woman was young, beautiful, wearing a bikini and glittering with jewelry. Though the music continued to play, the giggling stopped dead and I noticed the man I had come here to see: skin dark as an eggplant, a neck like a tree stump and the kind of smile you only see on gamblers or cult leaders who aren't afraid of dying. It was like the set of a cheesy R&B music video. The whole thing had an air of the ridiculousness about it. Even the women seemed slightly bored with their gyrating.
"Shawn T?" I said, trying to sound badass. Maybe I would star in my own little gangster film. Maybe they did mess with the wrong guy this time.
He smiled wide at me and then gestured for the women around him to calm down. Some were seated around his knees and feet; others were lounging on the carpet in front of him. One seemed to be paused right in the middle of giving him a shoulder massage. She was topless.
"Who wants to know?" he said, smirking.
I looked over at each of the women. I hated to think of the things that had led them here. And I hated even more that her face wasn't among theirs.
"Leo Bianchi," I said and took a step into the room. He was laughing quietly.
"Oh? And who the fuck is Leo Bianchi?" he asked and flashed a white smile at me. The women laughed nervously.
I took another step to him. I knew he was bluffing. He wanted to see me sweat, wanted me off balance. But he sure as hell knew who I was.
"Where is she?" I said.
He looked unfazed. Still holding my gaze he gestured around him at the mini-harem of women.
"Where is who? Does it look like I keep track of these bitches' names?" he said and laughed spitefully.
He was Jabba the Hutt with a million slave Leias around him. I tried to breathe. Tried to remember that soothing weight hanging at my hips. Tried to remember what I had come here for.
"You know exactly who. Sophia Cane. I tell you where the shipment's being held, you tell me where she is, and both of us go on our way, OK?"
"Shipment...?" The expression on his face suddenly changed. "What do you know about a shipment?" he said, leaning forward now and shaking off the woman's hands from his bare shoulders.
I smiled. At least I had his attention now.
"I'll tell you if you tell me where she is," I said and took another step towards him. Some of the women looked uneasy and drifted off to the edges of the room. He frowned hard at me, like he was trying to figure out some riddle. The whole room went quiet as I watched him think. He cracked his knuckles then gave me a hard look.
"Ok, I'll tell you where she is. But you gotta tell me where the shipment is first," he said quietly, then watched closely for my reaction.
I couldn't believe it. This scum had kidnapped an innocent woman, and god knows where she even was right now, and now he had the balls to try and haggle with me.
"No can do. Where is she? I need to see her first."
Some of the women were slipping behind me and trying to slink out the big doors. In one fluid jerk, I yanked the .22 from under my shirt, cocked the trigger and spun round to aim it at them.
"You! You're not going anywhere," I hissed. Their eyes widened and their hands flew up in panic, before they all tottered back over into the room.
Shawn T glared at me. He couldn't tell that my hands were shaken on the grip, or how pleasantly surprised I was that my body seemed to remember how to handle a weapon even if my mind had long since forgotten.
"Just chill, man." He signaled for the girls to sit back down. He was unarmed, sitting on his fat ass and probably high, too. I could take him, if I needed to. I was aiming straight for the thick furrow between his eyebrows, jaw clenched, almost sure that my finger would be squeezing right now where it not for that fact that he could still tell me how to find Sophia.
He lifted his hands up in surrender.
I walked closer to him and planted the cold tip of the pistol right to his forehead. At that moment, 'good Leo' was a distant memory. I would have done anything for Sophia. Even this.
"Is he storing them out at the old factory in Milton? Where? What's he up to?" he pressed. He looked pretty cool, for a guy this close to getting his brains blown out. I had no idea about a factory in Milton. But I couldn't let him know that.
"Nope, not there. I'm going to ask you just one more time, where is she?" I said through clenched teeth.
He smiled, tilted his head and in a heartbeat had sprung up, swung his thick arm in a wide arc over me and collided a fist straight to the side of my head. I staggered, gun now lowered, and raised my elbows to defend myself, but he was already on his feet and coming at me, delivering a string of punches to my sides, then going for the weapon. I spun around quickly, slammed the butt of the gun back and up so it came smashing square to the center of his chest; as he staggered back I lifted my knee high and kicked him down. He fell backwards but not before tripping me up and sending the gun skidding to the floor.
The women screamed and scattered.
Just as he gathered himself and hoisted his weight up again, I made for the gun but he stomped at my fingers, caught me in arm-bar and twisted deep into my neck, making me cry out in pain. I dug my fingers into his meaty bicep, dropped my weight and swiveled over my hip, swinging his entire body up and over me so it came crashing into the hard floor in front. He held on, cursing, as I reached for the gun again, but this time, he was too slow, and the instant my fingers made contact with that cold metal, I spun my outstretched arm to him and shot him at point blank range right through his left shoulder blade.
The entire scuffle was over in a matter of seconds. The marble and glass rung out from the blast. I leapt back and threw his grasping limbs off me, then swung the barrel of the gun round the room in a panic, threatening any woman who was thinking of making a run for it. They all stared with horror at the twisted shape on the floor, bent double to cradle his shoulder and the river of blood that was now snaking down onto his chest.
"Motherfucker!" he screamed.
I backed away from him, gun still aimed and cocked again. Shit. It actually happened. This isn't what was actually supposed to happen.
"You fucking shot me?" he cried. "What the hell's the matter with you?" His face twisted in pain.
"Tell me where she is!" I bellowed. I couldn't recognize myself anymore. These hands weren't my own. The sweat prickling on my face wasn't my own. Even the face itself felt alien and expressionless.
"I don't know, man, Jesus!" he yelled. "I was just shitting you, man, I don't know where she is, fuck I don't even know who you're talking about," he spat, then moaned a little as he peeled away his hand and looked dejectedly at his bloody chest. If I hadn't hit his heart, I had hit damn close to it. With a queasy feeling, I noted that the blood seemed almost black.
"Bullshit. Tell me where she is, this is your last chance," I said, but my hands were beginning to shake more violently now.
He raised pleading eyes at me.
"I don't know man, I'm serious." He shook his head. "Fuck... that lying piece of--"
"So you're not trying to shake Vito down before the Feds get to him?"
"What? Of course I am, man. Everyone in this town is."
"And then you thought I'd tell you where to find the shipment if you kidnapped Sophia?"
He burst out laughing.
"Man, are you stupid? Look around. You've been played even harder than me, fool!" he said, and sputtered a little, sending a trickle of blood out the corner of his mouth.
I took a step back, mind reeling. The women seemed torn between hugging the walls and rushing forward to help him.
"Vito wanted to make a deal, you know, come to a truce now that it's over for his ass, so I came to see him..." Shawn T said, slowly, as though it pained him to speak.
"Wait, this isn't your place?"
"What? No. This is Vito's little haven. He wanted to parlay. Cut a bargain. But he's a rat right till the end. I have to give it to him, he's smart."
"But they told me ...they said you'd taken her ...they said--"
"They told you to come over here, huh? Can kinda see why, can't you?" he said and gestured ironically to his gushing wound.
I felt like all the air left the room, leaving only a frightening whine. This man wasn't behind Sophia's kidnapping at all. It was all Vito. He sent me here, knowing I'd...
I looked down in horror at the blood streaming onto the floor. Shawn T, all pomp and arrogance a few minutes ago, seemed to be deflating before my very eyes, the wound in his chest puncturing through all the tough-guy attitude. Now he just looked at me pathetically.
This was all wrong. This wasn't the way it was supposed to happen. The ache at the back of my throat was threatening to choke me completely.
Shawn T sputtered a little, slouched over to the side and nodded off. I felt like I wanted to be sick.
I snapped back to attention, spun around and tried to think. The women looked petrified, and scuttled out of the way as I stormed out the room and back into that cold corridor. I had been an idiot. One woman clattered after me in her heels, then grabbed my arm and started babbling away in a language I didn't understand. Or maybe I was in so much shock that anything she said would have sounded like gibberish. I wriggled from her grasp.
"Wait, please." I turned to see another woman walking timidly towards me. "Please help us," she said in heavily inflected English.
I was in shock, but even I could understand the terror in her voice. The look of pain in her eyes shone clear despite the heavy makeup, the spangly lingerie and jewels.
But I couldn't help her.
I didn't even know how to help myself.
I stared at them in a daze and turned, a small crowd of them gathering to watch helplessly as I left. They were the women from my childhood. Hollow, empty eyes always trained on the alpha male in the room, women who had two modes: cower and hide or seduce. Broken women.
I threw myself into the car seat and sped aware, tires spitting up gravel as I raced back down the dirt road. Waves of nausea washed over me. I couldn't think of what was worse - the fact that I had killed a man, or the fact that doing so had brought me no closer to finding Sophia.
I was soon out on that anonymous highway again, although now I was speeding so hard I could hear the engine screaming. I still couldn't get away fast enough. I was never meant to be involved in any of this. I was never supposed to have wandered into that old granny's house all those years ago. This wasn't my life. This was a life that belonged to a man I had spent all my life trying to prevent.
When I had covered some ground, I fumbled for my phone and dialed Joe's number, venom in my fingertips. Fueled by white, hot anger, I needed a few seconds just to remember how to speak. The phone was answered.
"You set me up!" I yelled.
The line was silent.
"Yes. Yes I did," came the reply. But it wasn't Joe's voice.
My foot wavered on the gas pedal and I wondered if I was imagining things.
"Vito?" I whispered.
"Bingo."
The nausea was thick and heavy now. The road seemed to melt in front of me. I hadn't heard that voice in two decades. It was like the voice of a ghost speaking to me from another realm.
"I knew you would be squeamish about this kind of thing, but don't worry, consider your debt to me paid" he said slowly. I couldn't speak.
"I needed Shawn T gone, and you were the only person who could do it without it leading back to me."
"But I ...I killed him..." The word felt like it got stuck in my throat.
He chuckled quietly.
"I'm surprised too. Worst case I was thinking you'd shake him up a bit, just scare him a little, but no shit, you went full bore and killed the fucker. I'm impressed. Didn't think little Leo had it in him."
"You're going to pay for this," I said, feeling my foot fall heavy on the gas pedal again.
"Yeah, good luck with that. I'll be in prison till I'm eighty years old if I'm lucky, so you can have me after that. What can I say, my past is finally catching up with me."
The road suddenly seemed like a hell-road, one that would never end, one that just went on and on and on forever.
"Where's Sophia, what have you done with her?" I asked, unable to hide the desperation in my voice.
"Sophia? Man, let me just say, hell of a girl you got there..." he said, and the thick sleaze on his voice made me feel ill.
"Where is she?"
"Relax, she's fine. In fact, she's probably on her way home right now."
"What? Did you hurt her?"
He laughed.
"Hurt her? Nah, but from what I hear she wouldn't have minded much if I did."
The car nearly swerved off the road. I stammered to try and speak, but he interrupted me.
"Anyway, forget about her. She won't want to have anything to do with your sorry ass in any case, not after you're arrested for murdering Shawn T."
"You bastard."
"Yeah, maybe. But think of it this way, you'll have a friend on the inside, and I think you've already shown how useful you can be."
I bit down hard on my lower lip and tried to think straight.
"You won't get away with this. It's over, Vito. I'm not eleven years old anymore, you don't get to push me around anymore."
"There's footage."
"What?"
"The house is filled with cameras."
Silence.
"But we can keep quiet about all that if you'll stop being such a stubborn ass about holding the containers for us. Seems like a good deal for you, I'd say."
"This conversation is over," I hissed, but my mind was racing. I hung up but Vito's voice still rung loud in my ears.
The image of myself as a kid burst into my mind. 'Bad Leo', running as fast as he could, as fast as his feet could take him. Running away from what was in those awful boxes, running away from the fact that when I lifted them, and felt their dead weight, and the sickening warmth still coming from inside, and somewhere deep inside knowing exactly what was in them, and pretending I didn't. Running away from Sophia, from what she would do if she really knew what I was capable of, running away ...but what I should have done then, and what I needed to do now, was stop running.
I couldn't do it anymore.
I had told myself all my life that I would never return to what I once was, that I'd never look back. But it was now or never. I was going to turn around and fight back, and I didn't care how.
But first, I had to find Sophia.
Chapter 16 - Sophia
It was hilarious, but the diner was almost seedier than the strip club I had just escaped from.
I crept inside, grateful that at least something was open at this hour, and sheepishly ordered a coffee, not quite sure what a semi-fugitive like me should be doing, and whether it was ill-advised to get a coffee at a time like this. After all, they knew where I worked, didn't they? Whoever 'they' were.
I sat and drank with numb lips and out-of-focus eyes, plotting my next move. There was a pay phone but it was broken and anyway some reckless part of me liked the idea of blowing the few dollars Lily had given me on something this frivolous.
Something was happening to me. Something was happening to my body. Like a crack that appears in the side of a rumbling mountain, the kind of crack out of which peeps something electric-orange and hot and scary looking ...well, a crack like that was tearing me up. The day before, a glowing nub of heat and lust had knotted itself somewhere at my clit and hadn't gone away. In fact, it had grown bigger and stronger, and was burning its way all up my spine, ripping all the way up through me like it would tear me apart. And I wanted it to.
The jukebox had a weird sign on it that said "NO BRIAN ADAMS" and I stared at it and thought of Leo. About how desperately I wanted to see him again. About this growing red-hot ache in me that was all because of him, somehow.
I would go home. I could hitch a ride or take a long walk, as I was pretty sure I knew where I was now, more or less. I would go home, call Leo, try to remember that I used to be a sane, normal person and go from there. The future beyond that was just a white wall for me, something that my overtired brain couldn't begin to imagine.
I took another sip and felt the coffee seep into my grateful body. It was as though I hadn't even breathed since they snatched me from my front door, and I was only catching it all up now. My mind wandered over to the dream that had happened on that stage. To the thrilling look JD had given me. To the dark, dirty thoughts I hadn't been able to suppress. To the slutty movements I had made so easily, the devouring looks of the men surrounding me.
The bell on the diner door tinkled and someone walked in. I turned to look and the coffee went cold in my mouth.
It was Leo.
In slow motion, I noticed him notice me, and then he glided over to me, astonished. He stood there at my table, hands hanging loosely at his sides, and simply looked at me.
"You're OK," he breathed.
I looked up at him with pleading eyes. The fire in me pulsed and ignited again just to see him. Just to see that blue-brown pairing that marked him as mine, marked him so that whatever happened, I'd always recognize him. I'd always know those eyes. I couldn't think of anything to say, so I said nothing and just stared at him.
Then my eyes caught the metallic glint of a gun tucked into his waistband, hanging at eye-level. I stared at his crotch.
"What...?" My eyes turned and I noticed a spray of deep red speckles on the tanned skin of his hand and forearm.
Blood.
He had blood on him.
I gasped silently and drew back. He hurriedly seated himself next to me and clasped his thick arms around my shoulders.
"Shhh... just relax. It's OK now, you're OK, at least you're OK."
The warmth of his body suddenly made me realize just how cold I was. In my tiredness, I melted against him.
"What did you do?" I asked lamely.
The question of how Leo fitted into all of this was one I had desperately wrestled out of my conscious mind and ignored. He couldn't be involved. It just wasn't possible. I knew Leo had a rough past - hell, it was one of the things we had in common! - but guns? Literal blood on his hands? I stared at his fingers as he interlaced them under the table and shot me an imploring look.
"I, I was ...I thought that you were in trouble..." he muttered.
"But what did you do?" I cried, trying not to raise my voice. I thought of the rough looking men I had seen in the club. The dirty, seedy smiles. I suddenly thought of the notebook I was still holding.
"I ...I shot him," he said and searched my expression.
"Who?"
"I thought they had taken you. It was a mistake. They framed me."
I didn't know if I was angrier that my perfect boyfriend was morphing into a murderer before my very eyes or whether I was mad that he wasn't taking any fucking credit for it, wasn't just spitting it out and saying what he did. I could smell the sweat off of him. He seemed more tired than I was. It was as though all his usually smoothed edges had become a little jagged.
I laughed.
"Who are you? I don't even know you anymore," I said and tried to wrap my shaking fingers round the coffee mug.
"You know me, baby. It's me, please just listen. They pushed me into a corner. Someone from my past. I was stupid. They framed me and now I killed him, I thought he had taken you, but they lied to me, they wanted to frame me and get rid of him, and you..."
"Do you have any idea what they did to me?"
He gave me a wide-eyed look.
"Oh god, what did they do baby?" he said, his voice almost inaudible.
For some stupid reason, all the nastiest possibilities raced through my mind. I wanted to tell him that masked men had stolen me from my home, and had bound my hands, and had thrown me into a dark, dirty room and made me do things, filthy things. I wanted to see the look on his face when I told him that they ravaged me over and over again, that brutal, dangerous thugs and criminals took turns with my body, abusing me in every possible way, in lurid detail. None of it was true, of course. But in a way, I wanted it to be.
They had made me realize that I wanted the seediness. That the hunger that I had put away so many years ago, my 'sex addiction', well, maybe it wasn't an addiction at all. Maybe that redhead with the ankh tattoo had a point: everyone's addicted to something. You just have to choose an obsession that kills you the slowest. An addiction that you're happy to die for. And when I thought of that delicious feeling I had found on the stage, stark naked to the world, and of the deep feelings of desire that had shaken loose on the stairwell as I hobbled off and came so hard I thought I'd nearly die ...well, it was a feeling I wouldn't mind annihilating me completely.
I wanted to tell him all this. I wanted to find the words to explain to him what had happened to me, what had happened to my body. But I couldn't find the words. Instead, I got angry.
"Nevermind what they did to me. I never thought you'd be a part of this. I thought I was safe with you, I thought I could trust you..." I said, and felt angry little tears forming in the corner of my eye. "The wedding's off," I blurted, like a child.
He looked at me, dumbfounded.
"Well, I didn't want to fucking get married anyway," he said.
I glared at him.
"What?"
"You're surprised? Are you serious? When was the last time we fucked, Sophia, huh? Can you even remember?"
I had never heard him speak to me like that. We never fought like this. We were the couple who took ten deep breaths and disagreed like mature adults. We set reasonable boundaries and expressed our emotions calmly and rationally. We didn't do ...this.
I stammered to try and say something back, but his blood-spattered fists tightened and he interrupted me.
"I ran out there, Sophia, and I put my whole life on the line, I was willing to kill for you, and for what? So you could bitch at me about being safe? Are you fucking kidding?"
My face felt hot.
"Do you have any idea about how much trouble I'm in right now? You say you don't know me? Well, tough shit, this is me!" he said spitefully, gesturing towards the red spatters on his strong hands.
"I fucking hate you," I said quietly.
I didn't hate him. Not at all. But I wanted to provoke him. I wanted to see him angry. I didn't know why, I had no idea what I was doing.
"Just tell me what happened," he said. "Where did they take you?"
I took a deep breath.
"To a strip club. They must have drugged me. I didn't know what I was doing."
A look of disbelief flashed over his face.
"What you were doing?"
I flashed him angry, challenging eyes, daring him to force it out of me. The coffee was buzzing in my head. My stomach was empty; I hadn't slept properly in ages and in the last twenty-four hours everything I thought I was, and believed in, had vanished in a puff of smoke and perfume.
We glowered at one another. The energy crackled between us, half hate, half pure, animal lust. It was beautiful. It scared me. He was a thug and I was a slut. Words didn't seem to matter anymore. His sheer physical presence overwhelmed me.
In a heartbeat we lunged at one another and pulled the other one into a hard, angry kiss. I could scarcely breathe as he plunged a hot, furious tongue into my mouth and rammed my body full up against his hard form. It gave me stiff, almost painful goosebumps to realize how badly I wanted him.
"You smell different," he mumbled and passed his frenzied lips over my neck, my shoulders, my cheeks, my lips.
"You taste different," I said without thinking. He growled and kissed back with more urgency.
"Get up, we're leaving," he said as he finally tore his lips from mine.
"What are you--?"
"Just shut up. Get in the car."
I leapt up and made for the exit. He tossed some money on the counter, zipped up his hoodie and wiped his nose on the back of his hand before giving me a look so smoldering it made my knees weak. I hurried outside and found his car, and soon we were racing home, the air between us still crackling but now silent as we both surrendered to the bizarre wave that was carrying us both.
He slammed the car door hard when we arrived at home and we marched inside.
"Strip!" he barked at me before I scarcely had time to close the front door behind me. I thought about protesting, about asking him what the hell he thought he was doing, but instead I found my fingers obediently pulling my clothing off. I fumbled with my shirt and he paced over to me, tore off his own and then unzipped his jeans, the dark brown-red spots still on his veined hands.
"Forget about that," he said and grabbed me, then got to work pulling my jeans down, letting them bunch at the knees, exposing my bare ass. We were still standing in the foyer.
He gripped my half-unbuttoned shirt in his fist and yanked it to one side, making a handle for himself that he pulled to angle me down and away from him. I twisted around to peer at him, and gasped. His cock was bursting free from the slit in his jeans, red, stiff as a pole and pointing straight at my now upturned rear.
We were both still mostly clothed, naked where it mattered, the heft of his body basically pinning me hard against the wall and nearly knocking me off my feet. The ache in my pussy was so intense now I couldn't help but throw my hips back against him to beg for that thick red rod to be stuffed inside me. He moaned, pressed my head down and ran greedy fingers over the drenched slit between my legs, right over the spot that had been burning hot and desperate ever since they had taken me.
It felt like I didn't even know the man who was behind me, the man about to fuck me, and yet, I felt like I had missed this man all the same. That I had somehow missed him for all the time I had known him.
He dipped the head of his swollen cock into my hole and rubbed the slick length of it up and down my pussy, spreading my cheeks and restraining me with his other hand. I wanted him in me so badly I was close to whimpering and begging for it. I lifted my hips up but to my surprise the cock tip came to rest at the tight pucker of my ass. I tensed up.
That was something we never did. He asked me sometimes. I had told him that it was degrading and that I wouldn't. That only whores and porn stars did stuff like that. That I would no way do something so painful and humiliating.
But as he tilted his hips and pressed his cock against the tightness there, I didn't stop him. Maybe, the degradation and pain was what I needed. To the surprise of us both, the ring of flesh relaxed and allowed the first inch of him to enter without much resistance.
"Fucking slut," he muttered in a voice that I had never heard him use before, and the word sent a nasty little thrill through me, one that somehow opened me up so that when he jammed the next inch inside I accepted it willingly, and opened to it like he had found the magic word that melted every boundary.
"It hurts," I cried.
"Good," he said and pumped in another inch, and another, till I felt the weight of his entire body press firmly against my exposed hips, so he could dig into me even further, no part of his cock not buried in me.
The world went still as he skillfully introduced his manhood into that secret space, slow but purposeful, like he owned ever last quivering inch of me. I gasped and shuddered against him, melting all around that shaft of steel that seemed to be the only thing holding me up anymore.
It was the most revoltingly pleasurable sensation I had ever experienced. I felt filled up, deeper than ever, and stretched and torn apart in a way that half thrilled me, half scared me to death. It felt wrong. It felt dangerous. But I couldn't tell if the intense burning and the waves wracking through me were pleasure or pain.
My body decided for me and almost involuntarily my hips pressed back against him, swallowing up the brutality, every part of him disappearing except for that tight place where we were locked together.
When he yanked down hard on my shirt and began to thrust, I thought I would pass out. I might have been screaming. I might have gone silent, each pump of his dominating hips a small death of the girl I thought I was, the girl who never would have allowed her boyfriend to turn her over the entrance hall table and fuck her ass till she nearly fainted with pleasure.
Each stab opened me further, and allowed him in deeper. My whole body felt engulfed in flames, and with every thrust we felt melded together, like he was knotted in me forever. My pussy was streaming wet and pulsing in response to the hard treatment the rest of me was getting. I felt the familiar swell of the start of an orgasm, only this one had long roots tangled right into the deepest part of me, roots that seemed like they would shatter me to pieces right from inside my core, from that dark dirty part of me that had wanted this all along.
I turned to see his face washing over with pleasure, anger, something else, something more than all of those... His jaw was clenched hard enough to pull the tendons tight on his neck, and every muscle in his perfect body was hard and twitching as he threw his cock again and again into my body. He was being too rough. He was going to deep. But I didn't care. I was willing to let him kill me if he wanted.
I knew now what drug I wanted. What addiction I was willing to die for.
With every savage fuck, I realized that I had known all along that even though sex had hurt me in the past, it was my only redemption now. That even though sex had shackled me in the past, it could now become the most delicious tool. As he fucked me, pain and redemption and bliss and disgust and ecstasy and love and hate all melded and mixed together. I didn't know what I was feeling, only that I was feeling it intensely, with every last speck of my being.
I could hear him moaning and start to lose control. I felt him twitch inside me and the movement was enough to fling me over the edge. A slow, deep, hard orgasm ripped through me, and I screeched like an animal, sending the side table crashing to the floor and crumpling down against his body. I felt his cock tighten and swell inside, his balls pressed firm against my drenched clit, and soon he unloaded thick shots of hot cum deep into me, each one wracking his body and eking out a muffled cry from his throat.
We both crumpled at the knees and tumbled to the floor, released from the madness. He was still bolted hard inside me, and I winced as he slid out lovingly, both of us tender and still engorged. I curled up in a ball and he curled behind me, along my spine, cradling my breasts in his hands, his dick slowly deflating against my thigh.
For the longest time, we lay lie this together, just breathing.
Chapter 17 - Leo
"I'm sorry, I just don't know what came over me," she said, and started prying my hands off her.
"You're sorry?"
She was on her feet, fumbling for her clothing and, unbelievably, blushing.
"I'm just ...I've had a really traumatic day, and I'm tired, and things have just been so emotional."
I stared blankly at her. A moment ago I had held her tightly in my lap, cock buried all the way in her and watching as her beautiful spine curled again and again as she came. And now she was apologizing? I stood up to grab my clothing too.
"My head's a mess. I don't know what I was thinking."
"You weren't thinking."
She flashed her eyes up at mine, one twinkling blue and innocent, the other dark and hidden. She looked ...tumbled. Her hair was in loose tangles all around her beautiful face and there was a looseness in her limbs, a kind of devil-may- care attitude in the way she flung her words at me. It was hot. She was hot.
"Yeah, well... I'm going to the police to report all of this, and as soon as I've done that, we need to sit down and have a serious chat about what the hell is going on with us, and we need to discuss--"
"No. We don't need to discuss anything."
"Are you kidding me? I thought we were doing OK, you and I, but I guess ...I just don't know what to think anymore."
"So, stop thinking then," I said and returned her gaze, making her freeze in the middle of pulling her jeans up.
"Stop thinking? Stop thinking? You see, that's what I'm talking about, am I in the twilight zone or something? I'm serious that we need to reconsider the wedding. We need to just pull back for a second and call that off for the time being."
I stood up and lay my fingertips over hers, to stop them from fidgeting with her zip and button. She paused and looked up at me. She was and always had been the most striking woman I had ever seen. Like me, but better. And beautiful. Soft where I was hard. Good where I was bad.
But she squirmed her eyes away from mine and looked to the floor.
"You're embarrassed," I said, a little amused. I could see her lips tightening, but she said nothing.
"It's OK, you don't have to say that you liked doing ...that. But I know you did. I felt that you did," I said, and caressed my hand up over the hem of her jeans and onto the still bare flesh of her stomach.
She froze and said nothing.
"We should take a break from each other for a while," she said to the floor. I reached out my fingertips, took her chin and lifted it to me so she had no choice but to look at me.
"You're not going anywhere, you're going to stay right here and let me keep loving you," I said in an almost-whisper. "And we're going to keep doing this..." I added, and let my other hand caress the full slope of her hips and squeeze her ass so she knew exactly what I meant.
I felt the tension in her melt a little.
"I'm so sorry, I don't know why I said those things, I don't know why I'm so crazy these days, I--"
"Shhh..." I said and gently kissed her cheekbone.
"I'm serious though, Leo, I think I'm losing it. The things I did..."
"What did you do?" I said to her neck, and then carried my trail of kisses down to her collarbone. She took a long time to answer me.
"I ...I danced."
I stopped kissing and looked at her.
"You danced?"
"I danced."
I took a step back and cocked my eyebrow at her. I had always suspected that Sophia had a little hidden edge to her, a little more than a wild streak but something she was more than capable of restraining. But the look she now gave me had me wondering if she wasn't well-behaved with a tiny wild streak but more like wild with a tiny well-behaved streak.
"On the ...stage? You mean you danced at the club?"
I had vaguely imagined her cowering in a corner, dismayed at the seedy place they'd taken her to threaten me, but this confession immediately changed everything. She squirmed a little and looked as though she couldn't find the right words.
"They forced you to dance?" I said gently. The idea was awful. Them abducting her, keeping her prisoner and then forcing her to dance was one that filled me with the most white-hot rage. But I couldn't ignore that that rage was tinged with a sharp little pop of curiosity that still wanted to hear every last detail.
"Well, actually ...this is kind of difficult to say..." she muttered and kept staring down at the floor.
"Just tell me, Sophia. Did they threaten you? Did ...did anything else happen?" I tried not to allow my thoughts to go too far down the road of what else could have happened there, although some sick part of me wanted it to be bad.
"No, it wasn't like that. They didn't hurt me at all."
"Then what? You can tell me," I pressed. Had they humiliated her somehow? Is that why she was so reluctant to speak to me now?
"I wanted to do it," she blurted at last. "I pushed for it. I went on stage and I ...I enjoyed it. I loved it, actually."
Here she frowned and shook her head from side to side, like she didn't quite recognize herself.
"You ...you wanted to dance?"
The look on her face now was devilish.
"They watched me," she said quietly. "I took everything off, I showed them everything, and they all watched me, and they fucking loved it, and I ... I..."
"What? What did you do?" I asked, nearly shaking her by the shoulders.
"I came!"
"What?"
"I know it sounds crazy, but just being up there, I can't explain it, it was so intense, I felt like I was going to pass out except in the best way possible... and I ..."
"Who--"
"No, nobody touched me, I was just ...I was on fire. It was like magic. I stepped off the stage and my body just... " her eyes glazed over and the look of pleasure that washed over her face had the strongest effect on me. Secret, shameful parts of me had imagined her stolen and ravaged. Imagined the sordid things they had done to my sweet, innocent girlfriend. They were thoughts almost too obscene to even imagine, and yet, here she was telling me something even sexier. She wanted it. She really wanted it.
But suddenly her blissful expression collapsed on itself and she was frowning again.
"In any case, I just don't know what's going on with me anymore. I've spent such a long time rehabilitating, Leo, and all of that shit is in my past now, and it's behind me now, and I can't risk..."
I knew she had had a drug problem in the past. I knew she was ashamed of her childhood, of doing the whole foster parent circuit. Of the shoplifting, the fighting in school. I already knew all of that. She continued, little tears growing on the edge of her lashes.
"I just can't trust myself anymore. I'm regressing," she sobbed, then flung herself into my arms.
My mind whirled.
"There's stuff you don't know, Leo. I never told you. I was too disgusted with myself. I used to be..."
"A dancer? You used to strip? What?" I asked, confused.
"Much, much more than that," she said coldly.
I pushed her away at arm's length and studied her.
"More? Like what? You used to ...you used to sell yourself?" I yelled. The anger came more quickly than I knew what to do with it.
She was so thrilled by the idea of stripping and being a whore that just the idea made her come, and yet here we were, on a dry spell that was going on a month now? How the fuck did that make any sense? Hadn't I given her everything? Didn't we have the perfect relationship? I had assumed I had always pushed too hard, that I always needed to be gentler with her, to be patient, and yet... my jaw clenched down.
She said nothing, only looked at me with those two-tone eyes, pulled wide open.
"You're right, we should call the wedding off," I said, and released her. Her lower lip quivered.
"Leo, please don't be angry, I'm as confused as you are, I want to be honest with you, I wa--"
"Just shut up!" I yelled, and instantly regretted it.
"Did you really actually have an orgasm on stage? Seriously?"
"Yeah..."
"Well, was it worth it?" I said, voice rising again. It was my turn to feel as though I couldn't recognize her.
She said nothing.
"Well, tell me? Did you enjoy it? Did you enjoy being a giant slut for everyone? I can't believe this," I said, now leaning up so close to her that she shrunk back in fear. "Tell me, was it really that good? Huh?"
She stared at me mutely, eyes big. I wanted to shake her.
"Well?"
"Yes! I fucking loved it!" she hissed back.
I was stunned.
"Then dance for me," I said.
Our eyes caught for a moment, brown with blue, blue with brown, locked together in that way that only we could look at each other. Fuck, I loved this woman. And in this moment, I wanted to hurt her.
"Do it," I said more quietly, my voice choking up. "Dance for me. I want to make you feel that too."
"I can't," she said eventually and shook her head, but I grabbed her shoulders and pulled me towards her.
"You can, and you fucking will," I hissed. The shock on her face made me instantly hard. I couldn't explain it. Hate and love and fear and lust and confusion and delicious, delicious desperation all mixed together. I didn't know what I was feeling. I only knew it was intense.
"Do it. Strip it all off and dance for me like you did when you were playing the whore, since you clearly love it so much," I said with steel in my voice. She wanted to play with fire? She had a dark, kinky side? Well, so did I.
She opened her mouth to protest once more, but I cut her short.
"Do it."
Her eyes hardened at me. She took a step back, and then that glazed expression went over her face again. I could tell her hands were shaking as she ran them over her body. She was demure, awkward. She took a step away from me. I could see the lump dip and rise again in her throat as she swallowed. I flung myself into a chair, spread my legs wide and watched her, hands laced on my lap. I loved how nervous she was. I loved that she was shaking.
"Don't hold back, baby. You want to play with this kind of thing? Then do it. Fucking show me," I said. And slowly, very slowly, the moment morphed from angry and painful into something delightfully hot. She squeezed her eyes shut tight and arched her back, and gradually, she started to move like something molten, like a flame but in slow motion.
She was beautiful.
Without looking at me, she stroked her tight midriff, snaking her hands down and all the way up her tight little body. I could still scarcely believe that a few hours ago I had given her the thorough fucking I had. I couldn't believe what my body had done to hers. And that she had loved every second of it.
I watched as she gyrated and twisted her hips, rose up onto her toes to stretch out and then let her perfect breasts sway from side to side right in front of me. She was my girlfriend. My fiancé. But she was possessed. This wasn't just another side to her that I was just now seeing. It was a whole extra dimension.
She moved silently, then slipped off her clothing, first her shirt, then her jeans, taking her time. It was the same body I had dominated the night before, but the way she held herself now made her seem utterly different. I wanted her, badly. Though I couldn't tear my eyes away from her, I felt my body tighten and harden at the mere sight of her. I had felt raw and exhausted after what we had just done together, but it didn't seem to matter. I wanted more.
She peeled her eyes open and gazed heavily at me, daring me to watch her more closely, a voluptuous, almost challenging smile on her full lips. She could tell what she was doing to me. There were no words. There didn't have to be. The space between us became electrically charged somehow, filled with the wordless conversation that we were having, a carnal call and response between my body and hers. It took every fiber of my will to not reach out and grab her again, and show her just exactly what I was capable of doing to that teasing body of hers...but I held back, transfixed by her gaze, by her silky movements and full, swirling hips.
"Touch yourself," I ordered. Without skipping a beat, her fingers spread out against her flanks and slid down, down toward that now naked triangle between her legs. I worshipped Sophia's cunt. It was the like the cup of a goddess; like a spell in the flesh. She slid her fingers down and over the soft fuzz, so gently and gingerly that it was as though she was afraid she'd frighten something away, afraid she'd spill something or break the spell.
Her fingers were shaking again. But then, so were mine. I watched as one long finger slipped inside those folds and my whole universe folded in on itself and went right along with it. She stroked slowly in and out, following the erotic rhythm she had in her own head, and I could see how soaked she was, how frictionless it was for her to dip into and out of that dripping spot, teasing herself, knowing all the while that it made so hard I felt ready to explode.
"I want you to come for me," I said, my voice nothing more than a low growl. Obediently, she tilted her hips and picked up the pace. Her other hand was clutching at her breasts; squeezing and rolling in precisely the way my own hands were itching to. But I just watched.
"I want you to come just like you came when you were showing your body off to them. Make yourself come and let me see it. Let me see exactly what a little slut you are," I said quietly, and her fingers sped up.
Her chest began to rise and fall with jagged breaths, and her movements became less coordinated. Her long brown hair fell in waves down her back and shook as she pleasured herself, completely naked before me, on full display and revealing a secret to me I had never known was inside her. Her face rippled with little movements of pleasure, and her lips parted and came together again as though with a life of their own.
I knew she knew I was watching her intently, but her eyes were closed and she was in a world of her own. It was a sight to behold. So this is what turned her on. This was the secret button that unleashed her.
I unzipped myself to release my cock, now aching and rigid, and stroked myself idly as I watched. Just the slightest movements were almost too much - she had turned me on so much already that it felt like it took every gulp of air and every muscle in my body to hold off from bursting.
After what seemed like a lifetime, she came. It started somewhere at the base of her spine, right at the swell of her perfect ass, and ripped through her like a string of dynamite tears through the side of mountain. Almost instantly her chest came jerking forward and her mouth fell open, and the sweetest, hottest little gulp emerged from her throat, followed by a little whimper as she pushed herself over the edge.
Her knees buckled and clamped closed over her hand, as she shuddered and shook against herself. Soon, she was on her knees, eyes shut and flickering, both hands shooting out in front of her to steady herself against the spasming in her shapely hips.  I couldn't resist. I yanked down my jeans, sending the belt buckle clanging away to the ground, and thrust my hips toward her, cock straight up.
"Suck it," I commanded her.
She had barely made it through the last of the shudders of her orgasm but obediently crawled over and took me in her already open mouth. Fuck. My head fell back and I pressed into her, shoving the tip deep into her wet, warm throat. It was heaven. Her puffy lips closed tight around the shaft and sucked me all the way in without the slightest resistance. She usually never did it like that, but at this moment she seemed ...opened. Completely opened. Like her hard come had loosened something deep inside her and so now she was more than ready to swallow the full, hard length of me, till her pretty lips pressed right to the hilt.
I can't say what happened from then on. In a way, I wasn't even there when it happened. The rhythmic dance of her slinky tongue and wet lips all along my cock stroked me off to another world, where I could only see stars, could only feel fireworks exploding against my skin.
I glanced down to see her still fingering herself, a greedy little hand working furiously over her swollen clit while she serviced me. When I came, she opened her mouth wide and thrust my cock right to the back of her eager throat, swallowing me whole and gulping down every last shuddering spurt that burst from me. I clutched down on her hair and cried out. I roared out and felt myself pulse and empty out into her greedy mouth, her lips pressed right to the tight brown curls right at the base of my cock.
It was a surrender. A complete submission to her tongue.
When I eventually calmed down, she had scooted closer to me, feet still tucked under her, and then placed her head in my lap as I lay there. I stroked her hair idly as I tried to come back to earth. Her head rest sweetly on my hipbone, my softening cock close enough next to her to receive the little kisses she gave the tip, her eyes still closed.
I had known Sophia for years. But in many ways, that was the first time we ever truly met.
"...and then it slowly dawned on me what had happened. It was all a huge setup, right from the start. Do you think I'm an idiot? Do you think I'm just the biggest chump to have fallen for it?"
She looked at me with deep concern in her eyes. I mean, I certainly felt like an idiot. "What? No, of course not. Oh my god, Leo, you should be glad that you're not like those men."
I smiled as I thought that, in many ways, I was showing her a side of myself that she probably hadn't seen before. She was capable of dancing naked in front of strangers - and relishing it - and I was capable of killing a man. And the weirdest secret of all was one that we had invisibly had as a couple all along: that not only were we OK with the dark, but it had been the missing piece of the puzzle all along. The thing that had been magnetizing us to one another all along, even though we mostly had pretended it wasn't there.
I had fucked her twice again before morning. She had still felt slick against my skin, still open and still hungry from the time before, and I had fucked her again, and then again once more when just the memory of her body gliding hot and desperate around me was enough to make me want her all over again. We smelled of one another. The house was turned upside down and various pieces of clothing, sheets and towels were strung all over the place in honor of the sex bomb that had just exploded inside it.
As we had taken off one another's clothes, as we had stripped away at all the masks we had worn for the other, and even the masks underneath those, we were slowly piecing together something else, something darker. I had killed him. The cold, hard fact was there in front of us, and now we had some hard choices to make.
"But you say you didn't actually see any cameras when you were inside? There's still a chance he's just bluffing," she said.
I shook my head. No, this much was clear: they wanted to frame me, and I had played right along, literally stepping into their trap and doing their dirty work for them.
"And you have no alibi for that night," she mumbled, thinking aloud.
"Well, that might have been you, but you were at the strip club, and I'm sure quite a few people could confirm it," I said and laughed cynically.
"Oh my god, nobody can ever know," she blurted.
I smiled and hugged her.
"Relax, baby, they're not really after you. In fact, I don't think they were quite banking on you being so ...unpredictable."
"You'll be a wanted man soon," she said. And it was true. If it hadn't already happened, a case was likely being built up against me as we spoke. In fact, I wouldn't be surprised if the police were already on my tail. But here my mind went blank. What could I do? Run? I had already vowed to myself that I wasn't ever going to do that again. No, I couldn't explain it, but I wasn't going to run anymore. In fact, I was going to turn and fly straight into the hurricane.
We lay together for a moment, trying on the feeling of being naked, cuddling fugitives, when she shot up and gave me a wide-eyed look.
"We have to go back to that house," she said.
"And then?"
I looked down at her pretty face and could see her thinking. Then quick as a fox she sprang up and went to rummage in her coat pockets. All at once she held up something triumphantly and then rushed over to the bed to show it to me.
A notebook. A small one, so worn at the edges the paper had gone soft, and filled with so many scribblings and scratchings you could almost smell the ink in it. I flipped through it quickly to see lists, records of numbers. A lot of numbers.
"What's this?"
She shrugged.
"I found it at the strip club. It was in a back room, hidden away. I saw other things there too. Folders of ...women. He's obviously trafficking girls in..."
My brain struggled to latch onto the strings of numbers before me but I couldn't make sense of anything.
"What does it all mean?" I asked, then closed it.
She shrugged again.
"I don't know. But we have to go back there. We have to find that camera footage and destroy it."
I laughed out loud.
"I'm serious Leo. If they have no footage, they don't have anything else. They picked you because you didn't appear to be connected to him in any way, right?"
I tried to think. I had no idea where Vito was or what his next move would be. I had no idea what I was doing. I was playing a dangerous game, with an opponent I didn't trust, and I wasn't even sure of the rules.
"But going back to the scene of the crime? What if Vito's there?"
She raised herself up onto her haunches and stared deeply into my eyes, taking my hands.
"Yeah? So what if he is?"
The wicked glint in her eyes nearly blew me away. She was right. So what? Vito had stolen my childhood from me. He had barged in, used me as a pawn and now, years later, I was letting him do it all over again. I kissed her forehead and hugged her tightly. So what if he was there? Well, perhaps it was time I took a page out of Sophia's book. She was right. Vito might be going to jail, but that didn't mean that justice had been served.
"Get your coat," I said, "...and bring that book. We'll leave right now."
Chapter 18 - Sophia
If there's anyone in this world I wanted to be bad with, it was him.
I had tried being someone I wasn't. I had tried to stuff all the memories down, tried to forget, tried to 'process' and come to terms with and rehabilitate and move on. But what had that really done for me, in the end? What if what I really needed was not to avoid everything that made me different and damaged and wicked ...but embrace it?
I hadn't had a green smoothie in days. In the last week I hadn't thought once about wedding flower arrangements. My hair was kind of greasy, I ached all over, my boyfriend had turned into some bloodthirsty fucking machine and I had discovered that just under the surface I was certainly no angel either ...and I felt amazing.
As we bundled ourselves into the car and sped off into the night I was overwhelmed with the thought that now I was really living, now I had finally come alive after a long, dormant sleep in some kind of shell, some kind of good girl costume that had never really fitted me.
I was scared shitless. I was sure I had gone crazy. And I looked over at Leo in the driver's seat and felt a little intimidated. But I loved that, too. I had fucked him with the blood still on his hands. It was so easy to give myself to him. My mind could find no logical explanation for it but my body knew what it wanted, and it wanted him, in all his strong, forceful glory.
I loved the way he stared at the road in front of us. I loved how solidly his hands folded around the steering wheel. I loved the way his strong thighs relaxed open and I loved the bulge in his worn jeans and I loved what that bulge meant, and most of all I loved how good it felt to let him take me, to let his strong body lead mine.
The trees and shrubs in the night sped past outside our windows like hungry ghosts trying to flag us down. But we drove on, in heavy silence. As we neared the spot he slowed down a little and leaned forward to scan the landscape ahead. There was nothing but road and trees and gravel. But eventually he steered the car gently into an almost invisible clearing and looked at me.
"This is it," he said, and then swerved the car into some bushes, turned off the engine and exhaled loudly.
"We should walk up to the house. It's a long walk."
Old Sophia would have balked at the suggestion. But after what I had done that night at the club, nothing had quite the same sting of fear in it anymore. Breaking and entering, being turned on by what I was supposed to be repulsed by, even fear itself - all these things just seemed like flimsy veils - veils that I could fling off at any time like I was on a great cosmic stage, and I got off on all who watched me strip down to nothing. I was the god Shiva, dancing the end of the world in a strip club, and it felt fucking fantastic.
I nodded and we got out the car, then stole away into the night, nothing to guide us but the vague path shadowing the main driveway straight up to the main house. Leo moved swiftly, his body crushing a path for me that I followed easily. I could still feel him, inside me. He had done things to me. Dirty things. Again and again. But I never wanted to recover from those things. I never wanted the dull ache he had left between my legs to fade. Even in the icy night air, in the silence, my body was roaring for him.
As though reading my thoughts, he quickly spun around and caught me by the waist, planting a hot, insistent kiss on my lips. I hungrily kissed back, relishing how warm his lips were on mine, how good it felt to be here with him, on the edge, flirting with death.
"You don't have to come all the way, Sophia," he said. "It's dangerous. I don't want you to get hurt. This is my past, and I'm the one who has to put it to bed..." he whispered in the chill of the night.
I shook my head and held him tightly. No. I would come with him. He leaned in for another kiss, but this time, the gun tucked in at his waist pressed hard into me. I gasped. Without thinking, I leant in more deeply to wrap my tongue around his and curl my hips up closer to grind against him. He moaned and stroked down my hair, and then we dashed off again.
The woman in the strip club, Lily with the ankh tattoo, well, she had been right all along. There was nothing wrong with being an addict. It's just that when you're addicted to the right thing, it gets called a different name. It gets to be a calling. Intuition. People don't say it's obsession, they say it's 'passion'.
After what felt like a lifetime I slowly saw the edges of the house emerge from the darkness. It was clearly enormous, but so poorly lit it looked almost abandoned. I crouched behind Leo at the rim of some shrubs as he surveyed for an entry point. He spied what looked like an open window and we scrambled over, crouching low and flanking the house till we reached the window.
The room was dark, but it was easy enough to squeeze inside the window. He went first, and I followed, silently. It took a while for my eyes to adjust to the new level of darkness in the room.
A bedroom?
It was hard to tell.
My heart skipped a beat as I thought I heard something.
"Shit! What's that?" I whispered. The sound grew more distinct and then louder. Footsteps and voices, rapidly approaching us.
Leo quickly grabbed my wrist and pulled me into the room, and, feeling his way along the contour of a wall, found something like a closet door. He yanked it open and we tumbled into a recess in the wall. He slid it closed quickly and only two seconds later the light in the room flickered on. It came streaming through the wooden slats in the closet door. I had stopped breathing; I felt like I could almost feel my blood rushing around my body, pumping with adrenaline.
It was a walk-in closet, angled away from what I now understood was the main bedroom, and soon the voices were loud and clear behind us. An ice-cold wave of delicious fear washed over me from head to toe. I peered over at Leo, and could only see the wet shine on his beautiful eyes as he looked back at me and mimed zipping his lips closed.
Two voices.
A man and a woman's.
I heard things being clanked and opened, drawers being slammed shut, bodies moving.
"Where the fuck is he?" said the woman. "Is this what it's come to? I have to bury the fucking thing myself?"
I heard her mutter more complaints under her breath but the man's voice was relatively quiet. I could feel the warm skin of Leo's hand brushing against mine. It was the most maddeningly erotic thing in the world.
"Yeah, sure, obviously nobody expects you to do a damn thing, huh? You just sit around and bitch, right?" said a man's tired voice. His accent was straight from a gangster movie. I could hardly believe my ears.
I turned to look at Leo but he was watching intently, the slats of light mirrored in his wide eyes as he peeked inside. We were two naughty kids spying on the grown-ups. But could this really be him? The infamous Vito Roselli? He sounded like nothing more than an exhausted, hen-packed dad to me.
"Yeah, yeah, poor you, sorry I forgot," came the woman's voice again. "Must be hard getting all these people to do what you want all the time."
"Can you lay off? You think I brought you out here just to chew me out?"
The woman laughed angrily.
"Bunny, please, I'm having a hard time, can a man not come somewhere nice with his wife and just enjoy things for a second? Is that so much to ask, huh?"
"Cry me a river," she spat, but her voice was softer now. I felt like all the blood in my body was slowly pooling somewhere at my feet.
Through the slits I could make out a little of the woman moving around in the room. She was undressing.
I was transfixed.
I had only ever seen Vito Roselli on the news before. He was an enigma. Not a real person. Not someone who had to coax a belligerent woman into bedding him. And yet here he was, and this was his life, playing out in thin, bright bands right before my eyes. Leo grabbed my hand and squeezed it. If we were discovered, we would be killed for sure. A little knot of fear seemed to tighten between my legs.
We watched as the woman blinked in and out of view, removing her clothes and revealing a mature but shapely figure. She kept her garter belt and stockings on. Who even wore that kind of thing anymore?
"Bunny, look how fucking beautiful you are. Why you gotta give me such a hard time, huh...?" he cooed. One of my feet was cramping from being held so still.
Leo and I strained our ears to hear them kissing and groping one another. Fabric rustling. The sound of more clothing dropping to the floor. Vito himself was still out of sight.
"People steal from me, Bunny, the dancers are all jumping ship, I got shit with the licensure for the bar, I got a million things going on ...but fuck when I see those ...I can forget about all of that, you know?"
Oh god, they were going to fuck. Right here, with us just a few feet away in their closet. Oh god. What if they needed to get some clothing and came looking in here?
I peered out the slatted doors as far as I could to either side and made out a long passage to our left. Leo caught my eyes and saw what I was thinking. We could make a run for it, provided they were distracted enough and we didn't make a sound.
"I know baby, I know. But we have Joe as an alibi, we have the video of Leo doing the deed, and we have eye witnesses to put the girlfriend at the club," she said between noisy kisses. "So let's just focus on getting rid of the goddam body now, OK?"
Vito mumbled his agreement. Shawn T. His body was still here? Leo flashed me a shocked look, which I returned.
"You know, you were right about that girl, Bunny. They told me she was a bit of an ex-junkie, but man, the stories I heard..." Vito said, chuckling. I heard the bedsprings groan a little as both of them settled onto the bed, still kissing and breathing heavily.
I felt Leo's hand squeeze mine as quiet, guttural sounds started coming from the bed. The springs creaked. We couldn't see much but the bobbing feet. Now was our chance. Leo looked to me, placed a cat-like hand on the slatted doors and eased them open one atom at a time. The door cooperated and glided open smoothly. The light in the room felt like an assault on our eyes.
We dove out, hugged the wall and dashed into the relative darkness of the corridor to our left, not daring to look behind us at the grunting couple on the bed. My hand still in Leo's, we fled, his other hand feeling out a path for us in the semi-darkness. This place was huge. I followed, high on the balls of my feet, and soon we had raced down an arching staircase and landed in what looked like an enormous office. His hand yanked the chain of a small green table lamp and the layout of the room appeared softly illuminated before us: there were several desks, chairs and bookcases, all stinking of smoke and leather, and to the far end of the room was a giant safe door with a rotating lock shaped almost exactly like a dumbbell.
We exchanged glances. I immediately fumbled for the book as Leo went over to examine the giant swivel on the door.
It required two sets of codes.
I flipped through the book looking for something that would match, but my fingers trembled and the numbers swam before my eyes. By sheer luck, I turned to a page with a triple underlined pair of codes and saw a little dumbbell sketch - yes, a dumbbell just like the handle! - was doodled next to it.
Leo's fingers flew to enter in the digits I whispered loudly to him, and a steel bolt popped out and allowed entry for the second code. He entered this in too. I knew Leo was easily two hundred pounds of mostly muscle, and yet he when he threw his full heft against the door it took its time hinging open. It was a tiny room, completely dark, and in a heartbeat something made a great whoomp sound.
I screamed as a dead man down slumped at me feet.
"Shhh!" hissed Leo, and he raced to grab the dead weight off of me and shove the body upright and back into the vault. But it was too late. My body had screamed without my permission, and everyone in a ten-mile radius must have heard me, nevermind the lovebirds upstairs. I clapped my hands over my mouth and stared down at the ashen face and dead, rubbery mouth. I had never seen a dead man before. I couldn't tell if I was going to pass out or scream again.
"Sophia, Sophia baby - listen to me carefully. They know we're here now. Get inside and hide, and don't make a sound, OK?"
"Leo he's ...he's ...is this the guy you...?" I stammered.
"Just get inside Sophia!" he said and pushed me towards the body. I resisted with every fiber in my being.
"But--"
"Sophia, I love you. Please. You'll be safe inside, just do as I say. He's dead. He can't hurt you."
I could hear hurried footsteps coming down the stairs. I swallowed hard and forced myself to step over the body and into the darkness of the vault. Leo closed it behind me but didn't lock it, so that a thing crack of light still sliced through.
The next few moments unfolded on only one sensory channel: sound. And smell. In the pitch dark, I realized with a lurch to my stomach that the body smelt so bad I had to actively stop myself from retching. My hands fumbled for a light switch, a table, anything, and that's when I heard them.
"Ha! Will you look at this! You're a little trip down memory lane, aren't you?"
I froze.
Vito.
I pricked my ears so keenly it felt like the air itself had a sound. Silence. I wondered what they were doing out there.
"What you gonna do with that, buddy? You gonna kill me, too?" said Vito, arrogantly.
I felt sick with fear for Leo.
"I'm not afraid of you anymore," Leo said calmly. I clung to his voice, savoring every piece of proof that he was still alive, still well. He was standing close to the safe, only a few feet from me but separated by a thick steel door. I felt more protected by the prospect of his body shielding me than I did by the thick steel door.
"In fact, looking at you now, I can see why you never picked on anyone your own size," Leo continued. He spoke slowly, like he didn't want a single syllable of his insult to go unheard. I could feel the tension in the air.
"Just put the gun down, Leo. That won't help you now," he chuckled. "You're guilty for murdering Shawn T, end of story."
I heard the trigger pull back and click. I whipped my attention to the space around me and furiously, my hands flew around the dark to find a switch. I had the revolting fear of accidentally touching him, but just when I had almost giving up, my hand caught a string on the roof and I tugged down hard, illuminating the inside of the vault. I scanned quickly. I saw a little ledge, several dead CCTV monitors. It wasn't a safe. It was a safe room. I noticed woven bags on the floor and peeled back the lid to reveal tightly packed blocks of fresh $100 bills. I gulped and covered them back up again.
All of a sudden I heard a tussle outside and then the woman's voice, high and shrill even from inside my metal cage.
"No!" she cried. "Leo, don't!"
I heard Leo yell something back at her and she shut up instantly.
"I was just a kid, Vito! You knew that. I trusted you. I looked up to you! Do you know the guilt I've carried around for all these years?"
I had never heard so much emotion in his voice before. Suddenly, I spied a recording case on the ledge. On it was written: Shawn T. I snatched it and glared at the real Shawn T. Yep, he certainly was crossed out. I stashed it into my jacket pocket.
I heard the two men clash, and the woman screamed. I couldn't stand it any longer; I poked my head out and tried to see what was happening.
The two men were rolling one over the other, stumbling across the floor, first one on top, then the other. Vito had pinned Leo down and was straddling him, arms outstretched and trying to pry the gun from him. Leo's arm was stiff and outstretched to clamp him at his neck, and both men were red and wrestling, the gun held just out of Vito's reach.
Vito managed to swing up his left leg and in a split second had kicked the gun from Leo's hand and sent it skidding along the floor. Like my life depended on it I flung open the door, flew from the vault and grabbed the gun so tightly it hurt my hands. The woman screamed again when she realized I had been hiding there all along, then in the next beat lunged her hands towards my throat. As though possessed, my fingers moved swiftly to cock the trigger and I squeezed, exploding the room in a loud bang as a bright, red spot appeared square in the center of her chest.
Everyone in the room froze and stared at me, horrified, their faces nearly as ashen as the late Shawn T's, who had been watching mute from the door of the vault.
Vito's wife crumpled gracelessly to the floor, her mouth twisting. She gargled, her head fell limp and she collapsed in on herself. I cocked the trigger again and swung outstretched arms over to the other two.
"Get away from him!" I barked.
Vito jerked back and held his hands up in defense.
"Sweetie, you don't want to do this. Just drop the gun, OK?" Vito stuttered, casting alarmed glances at his wife. My face hardened and I gestured for him to back off. Leo looked at me with a mix of wonder and ...something else I couldn't decipher.
"Sophia, baby, give the gun to me. This isn't your battle to fight, you don't have to do any of this," Leo was saying, holding desperate hands out to me. But I held tight. The weapon felt good in my hands. Solid. Real. In fact, it seemed like a revelation, to have it here in my hands, to be directing the course of events in front of me with such ease, with such fearsome power... No, I wasn't ready to drop the gun just yet.
"You remind me of someone, you know that?" I sneered at Vito, who seemed to be wilting right in front of me. And he did remind me of someone. The balding, shiny head. The grizzled mouth and quick, greedy eyes. The sunken cheeks and the way the skin got red and gnarled round the V at the collar of his shirt. Oh, the things I could have used this gun for in the past.
"Is it true, the allegations about the girls? About what you do?" I said, the memories of the photographs I'd seen in the club came rushing into my mind. He stammered but didn't answer.
"It is true, isn't it? You sick bastard. I know men like you. You're empty. You have nothing, so you have to take from everyone else." I took a menacing step forward and relished how he cowered back away from me.
"Men like you only care about one thing. Power. Your whole lives revolve around it. You're only happy when you can bully someone else, make someone else unhappy. Well, how does it feel to be the powerless one, huh? How does it feel to be on the other side?"
It was as though I spit the words out, like they were poison just to speak. But they were old, old words. Words from a younger, more broken version of myself. Words that I had never said and which had sat inside me and festered. To get them out felt like finally wrenching loose a rotten tooth. Vito cringed and cowered in front of me. He made me sick. It didn't matter that this was the first time I had met him. In some mysterious realms, I already knew him very, very well.
He held out his hands, cringing in front of me.
Sure, now he would beg for mercy. Beg for me to be the 'bigger person'. How nice the concept of forgiveness was, how sweet the idea of compassion, when it wasn't you who had to give it. What a lovely, final insult to someone you've hurt: to rob them of their desire to kick back. No, this wasn't some cheesy action movie where I redeemed myself and showed mercy to the bad guy. I had tried in vain for years to forgive. No, some ghosts from the past need to be forcefully removed.
"I'm just an old man, sweetie. Please, think about what you're doing, you don't want to hurt anyone; you don't want to be bad..." he started.
"Don't I?" I said, and pulled the trigger.
The house reverberated with another echoing boom. Leo sprang up to grab the gun from me, but Vito was already slumping down, squeezing at his bleeding chest and throwing disbelieving glances at me, at his wife, at his punctured chest.
I felt clean, and light. The tension melted instantly from my body. Out the edge of my consciousness I knew Leo was fumbling inside the safe. Yelling. But I could only stand, my ears still ringing, and look down at the demon I had slain.
He took the gun and wiped it down, threw it on the floor and began stashing money from the safe into a small bag. He took the recording from me and put it into the player. He watched himself for a moment, on screen, standing in a room full of half-naked woman.
He watched as a grainy, pixelated Shawn T fell to the ground, in silence. He stopped the playback, whipped the recording out and stuffed that into the bag too, before scanning the rest of the vault thoroughly. I watched him do all of this as though through a dream, or through a white gauze.
"Sophia? What are you doing? Let's get out of here."
I stared up into his eyes. For a moment, the world grew even more still, and I got lost in that perfect blue/brown snare of his, that trap that had caught me so long ago and still had me now. The corner of his mouth came up a little. I flung myself into his arms and he breathed soothing words into my neck as he held me.
He gripped my hand and held it tight, and we ran out the house and back into the night, back to the car and back onto that long, dark ribbon of road that had brought us out here. With the buzz of death all around us, I had never felt more alive in my life. My hands were shaking but my head was clear, open. Free.
Leo and I drove off, silent.
There was no need to speak.
I had no doubt that the thoughts running through his head were the same flavor as mine anyway. Tonight, the past had not been escaped. It had been defeated. And as we sped away, together, my hand still in his, it felt like so many days put to rest. And as we watched the first glowing yellow tip of the sun come over the horizon, it felt like a new day.
The first day of a different life.
Chapter 19 - Leo
Twelve Years Later

Sophia was the only other person I had ever met with completely heterochromic eyes. And while I was blue in the right, brown in the left, she was brown in the right, blue in the left. We were similarly passionate, resilient people. We both loved salsa. We shared the same goals and had the same roots in life. We had known each other for more than a decade. And in those years, we had helped each other delve into the darkest parts of ourselves, and mined the gold in those caves, and we had continued, always together, always building, not despite the ruins of the past, but right on top of them, turning them into foundations instead.
The sun streamed into our bedroom window; completely indifferent to the curtains we had hung there. The birds were already up, and I could hear the very distant hum of morning traffic and the sound of some children playing in the courtyard a few houses down.
Midnight sex had always been Sophia's specialty, but I was all about the early mornings. There was just something so delicious about her when she was half-awake, soft, still smelling like sleep and her body still warm.
I reached over and laced my arms around her shoulders, curling my body round hers and pressing my cock into the small of her back. The bed was our nest, our haven. I nuzzled into her neck, nibbled her ear. She moaned and absentmindedly reached back to stroke me. I fucking loved that. Even when not fully conscious, that was her first instinct. Her body knew mine so well it could find its way to me without her even being awake.
"Open your legs for me," I whispered into her ear. She stirred a little, twisting round to see me.
"Shhh... don't wake up, baby. This is just a dream..." I purred into her ear, and she giggled at this.
"Keep your eyes closed. Just feel me," I mumbled, and started to run my hands down over the curve of her back. And so, she kept her eyes closed.
Of course, this was all a dream. Every morning I woke up with her like this I could scarcely believe how far we'd come together. From the day we had raced down that deserted road in the morning darkness, life had been something of a dream. Neither of us could have known just how far that road would eventually take us.
She tilted her hips back to open to me, and pressed slow circles against my lap, stroking my dick with her perfect ass. The rest of her stayed still, her face still half buried in the pillow. I clutched her hips and widened the circles, nestling my cock into that sweet cleft. In it sunk down between her ass cheeks, nearly reaching the hot, juicy core that I just knew was there. I ground my hips into hers, our warm bodies pressed smooth against one another, still under the blankets.
By the time I had burrowed my way deeper in, her body welcomed me and her little pussy swallowed me up with ease. I sunk the tip in, splitting apart the tight folds and finding my way inside. Her only response was to take a deep, sharp breath in and release it with a near-groan. While the rest of her slept, her most secret part was dripping wet, pulling me in and closing tight around my rock-hard cock.
Her beautiful musk filled the inside of the little duvet-tent, driving me wild. I buried my neck in the pillow of her hair, drew my hips back and slid straight in again. The gasp she made turned me on so much I did it again, and again, losing myself for a moment in how mind-numbingly good it felt to be pressed up inside her as far as I could go.
She twisted around and blinked sleepy eyes at me.
"Good morning," she said, as though I didn't have my cock jammed into her at that very moment.
"What's up?" I said with a naughty smile. "Sleep well?"
She took a deep breath and gave a little stretch, like a cat, then looked at me again. I was still slowly thrusting in and out of her drenched body. We were having one conversation above the blankets, and another, very different, conversation below them.
"You know, I had the strangest dream, actually," she said, playing coy.
"Oh?"
"Yeah. I dreamt that this really hot guy snuck into my bedroom..." She snuggled her cheek against my bicep. Without skipping a stroke, she swiveled herself round on my cock so that her hips were rotated and she was now facing me, our thighs interlocked into one another's.
"Oh? And then what happened?" I asked, still sliding my stiff dick into her, hands still perched on her hips and pulling her deeper with each thrust.
"Oh... I'd be too embarrassed to say," she smiled.
I kissed her. Above the duvet line, she was beautiful, sweet Sophia in her printed pajama top and silky hair. But below ...our swollen bodies were locked together, fucking slowly and smoothly in that old rhythm we had taught one another so well by now.
"Aw, don't be embarrassed. Tell me!"
"Well, he put it ...he put it in there," she said, like a schoolgirl who knew she shouldn't swear.
"In where?" I said, and slid my engorged cock from her hot body.
"You know ...in there," she giggled, and as she did so she thrust her ass towards me under the blankets and shimmied her bent knees up my thighs, then up my chest, higher and higher up. I smiled at her flexibility. At how unruffled she was on this side of the blankets.
"Ah, you mean in there," I said and gave her a naughty smile, then grabbed her ass cheeks, stroking my thumbs against the little pucker hidden between them.
"That sounds kind of naughty though. Did you like it?" I asked, trying to sound casual.
She sighed and shimmied her legs up further still, so that her feet were now positioned right at my neck, behind my ears, forcing the most delicious, naked parts of her flat against me.
"I don't know," she purred, locking eyes with me. "It kind of hurt at first, but then..."
And then we kissed.
It was crazy that even though I was about to plunge deep into her ass down below, the prospect of the daintiest, fairy-light kiss on her lips above was so thrilling it made me even harder.
My lips closed on hers, I wedged the head of my cock into there and gave one firm, solid push to open her up. She twitched in response but maintained her cool. She was so thoroughly soaked the rest of me glided into her, although with each inch I felt her body react in the way her toes tightened around my neck, and her little tongue froze for a moment in her mouth.
"Then what? Then you started to like it?" I said, stroking the hair from her temples.
She nodded mutely. I felt her entire body tense and tighten around my cock.
I knew that Sophia liked a bit of pain. I knew where her boundary was, and just how far to take her past that boundary. I knew how much she could take, and where, and how. She had taught me over the years exactly how to dole out the perfect balance of brutality and gentleness, how to lead her down into that flawless sweet spot right in the middle...
But I had taught her, too. My body had shown her who was boss. Sometimes, the lesson was that I was always stronger, and could always overpower her easily, leaving her a whimpering mess of pleasure whenever I wanted to. Sometimes, though, it was enough just to let her know that I could do that to her, but instead I chose to just hold her, just have her close to me, and cradle her as we fucked tenderly.
Pinned together like that, her knees slung high over my shoulders, I scarcely needed to move at all to penetrate her deeply. We rocked back and forward slowly, me rolling her with my hips and stroking somewhere deep and deliciously taboo inside her, and she flopping down heavy in my arms, eyes half closed as she focused closely on the waves of pleasure we rode together.
I loved fucking her ass. I loved that even now, it still felt like a forbidden pleasure. And no matter how many times I did it to her, it always felt like the first time. I loved how hard she came when we did this. Normally, she'd scream and buck and thrash a little when she came, but when I was in there, it was thought the whole symphony dropped an octave and her body cried out from some very much deeper, heavier part of herself. Sometimes, she'd bite me. Sometimes, she'd cry a little, and the sight of her struggling to take me all in was usually enough to make me come.
Our lips locked and we kissed lazily, sweetly, all the while our bodies knotted in a dirty clinch below. I grew bigger and harder inside her, the subtle fluttering of her body inside enough to push me right to the edge. Her dripping wet cunt pressed hard against the flat of my belly, and with each subtle thrust I squeezed against her clit.
"I don't remember how the dream ended, though," she whispered.
"You don't? Are you sure?" I said, gently taking her lower lip between my teeth.
"But I think it was a happy ending."
"Yeah?"
"Yeah."
I tightened my hips and drove even deeper into her, as far I could, relishing how good it felt to disappear inside her, so deep, and so tight. She let out a little whimper. The look on her face told me everything I need to know.
"I think he must have filled me up with cum," she mumbled, inching closer to her orgasm, her voice wavering.
"Really? How naughty of you. You liked it though, didn't you? Having his cock all the way in your ass? And putting his cum all the way up inside you?"
I adored the effect this had on her.
"I loved it," she peeped.
"What's that you say?"
"I ...I said I ..."
"Speak up, Sophia, I can't hear you."
"I fucking loved it!" she cried and her face contorted in the most beautiful expression of tortured pleasure.
"Fuck, yes," I growled.
"I wanted every last drop, I wanted it all."
"Every last drop?"
"Every ...last ..."
It was my turn to lose control. I could feel her enthusiastic body roll and clench over me, pushing me clean over the edge and into an orgasm so full I felt my skin flash out in goosebumps.
"Oh fuck..." I cried and pulled her entire body onto me. The sensations hit me hard.
She followed. Locked hard into one another, we had no choice but to convulse and quiver inwards. With each spurt of my cock I felt her jolt and come herself, her pelvis tilting and squeezing against me, milking me even further. I sent glob after sticky glob deep up into her grateful body and she cried out, clinging to me, her moans getting lost somewhere on my lips...
By the time we had both calmed down and, with great effort, I had carefully slid out of her, we were soaked in sweat and completely exhausted. Down went her pretty legs. I pulled her close, and she disappeared a little under the blankets, snuggling against my chest and going back to sleep. I kissed the top of her head and watched the sunlight still trying to make its way into the bedroom.
We didn't do this kind of thing often. It took a lot out of her. But it was like a hard reset for her body. After a good, thorough fucking, right where she was too bashful to say out loud, she'd be all sweet and goofy, and in a dazed-out mood for the rest of whole day. After she had snoozed for a while, I kissed her again and tried to shake her awake.
"You haven't forgotten what today is, have you?" I said. She shot me the same sleepy eyes.
"Of course I haven't!"
We got up, had a quick shower together, and chatted about the day ahead as we got dressed, suddenly realizing that our morning rendezvous had actually taken much longer than we thought. I could already hear the cartoons blaring loudly downstairs and the activity and playful banter happening downstairs in the kitchen. It would be a busy day.
When Sophia and I finally sauntered downstairs, Naomi gave us a knowing look and a smile.
"I got everyone started with some breakfast," she said, and raised a spoonful of cereal at us.
"Daddy!"
I was rugby-tackled around my legs as little Josh came careening over to me and wrestled my legs. "You're up now! So can I open my presents yet? Where are they?" he said and beamed up at me. I scooped him and hoisted him onto my hip, laughing.
"Presents? Ah, shoot, is today your birthday or something?"
"Dad!"
"Just kidding! You can open all your presents this afternoon when everyone comes over, remember? That's the deal."
Josh pouted and fussed, but finally agreed to eat up his cereal and then bounded off to watch TV.
"That child must have inherited his stubbornness from you," I said to Sophia as I poured her a bowl of cereal.
"That child is adopted," she said.
"Yeah I know, but that's how it works with stubbornness genes. They just do what they want, you know, even if it's not technically supposed to work," I teased.
She pulled her tongue out at me.
It was true, though. None of this was technically supposed to work. If I had told a younger, more desperate version of myself that I would one day be living in Costa Rica with my beautiful wife and a whole army of 'adoptees' I wouldn't have believed it was possible. But we were all a family. The one thing we all had in common was that we had lost our first families, somewhere along the line. But Sophia and I had found each other, and then we had found Josh, and somehow after that, we just kept on finding people.
The first was Naomi. After Sophia gave up her massage studio and decided to work for an NGO that helped victims of trafficking, we soon found more like us. People who were trying to escape from the past, running so hard that they didn't even care where they landed up. But they landed up with us, in our crooked little house in our avocado tree-lined street with our cats and dogs and a parakeet Bingo, also an orphan.
Naomi had acted as our Ukrainian translator for a few years, but her role had extended to include everything from impromptu godmother, housekeeper, PA for Sophia and fundraiser. Soon, more girls came. Leah opened the door on a trafficking ring that bought us so much attention and funding that we decided to ramp up operations and open an official halfway house. She was the one who encouraged us to help the girls find work, new homes, purpose.
And so that's what we did.
The newest members found a household of women who'd escaped years ago and knew the ropes. We learnt about the law, about the extent of the trafficking problem in Eastern Europe and the rest of the world. Leah started getting licensed to practice law in this country, and quickly became an integral part of everything. Nita had only been with us for a few months, but had our kitchens up and running like a five-star hotel's.
There were some days when we had upwards of 25 women and girls staying with us. It wasn't always easy. Some brought painful drug habits with them. Some had dangerous partners, some had children, some were sick. But we became their family, no matter what their past was. We were the ones that took them in when the police were not an option. When their support system had abandoned them, when they were lost to the world and completely alone. Whatever state they came to us in, when they left, they were different people.
And they all loved Josh to death.
I would laugh and tell Sophia that one day we could tease him about the fact that more than half of the people who came to his fifth birthday party were gorgeous ex-strippers and sex workers from Russia. I didn't care, though. Josh had been showered with more love and doting in his first five years of life than had taken me a lifetime to accumulate. And I liked it that way.
"Oh, by the way, I spoke to that new girl on the phone last night. Remember her? Ksenia?"
Naomi said, and started to help Sophia clear away dishes.
"You did?"
"Yeah. She's at the CPP center in town and they told me they'd have someone send her over in the morning. From what I understand she's in pretty rough shape. Her English isn't great. Do we have anything in the account for a montage this weekend?"
It was an old in-joke of ours.
The first two girls that landed up with us had lost all their personal belongings along the way, and so we had to take them shopping and literally buy it all back again. Clothing, toiletries, shoes. Sophia had taken charge of all that, but she had quipped that the whole day felt like the shopping montage scene from Pretty Woman, and the nickname had stuck. Now, the 'montage' was something of an initiation rite around here. Shopping made me want to pull my hair out, but there was something about watching Sophia fuss over a timid new girl that put a lump in my throat.
"We should be fine, go for it," I said. "When's she arriving?"
"This afternoon."
I put down my coffee cup.
"Invite her to the party," I said.
"Leo, baby, she's probably exhausted, she won't want to come to a kid's birthday party," Sophia said from the sink.
I shrugged. Sophia knew best about these things. She just had a knack. I was good at taking care of the practical stuff, sure, but it was really Sophia who was the beating heart of this house. Of everything here. The more we took on, the more she seemed to shine. She was so competent she made me look bad, honestly, but I didn't care. It was me who took her to bed every night. Me that knew what she liked, and how. Me who could do things to her that nobody else could... so as far as I was concerned I was constantly getting the better deal.
The afternoon rolled around and everyone fussed over little Josh, running around to hang up the decorations and laying out the snacks and treats on the table. Josh dashed underfoot and stuck his fingers in the cupcakes and asked roughly every four seconds whether he could open his presents yet. I didn't mind.
Not so many years ago, he was found crying and locked in a wardrobe after his mother put him there and decided to go to Vegas and never come back. I don't know yet what I'll tell him when he asks about his past. For now, I just want to make the present as good as I can.
What else can I tell you? News that Vito had passed away in prison reached us a few years after we found our new place and moved over. It may sound strange, but I mourned him a little. As far as I can tell, his cronies and hangers-on all seeped back into civilian life and the days of seeing Vito's ugly mug in the papers kind of drifted away, like the era of Al Capone - something people can only vaguely remember, and don't even want to in any case.
Ordinary, gentle life seemed to fold over the hole he had left, and soon the wound was covered up in the soft new growth of my life with Sophia. We married soon after we bought the new house, and it was just the two of us, the two cats and a moody day that turned into a heavy storm later that night.
For a long time we spoke often about all the crazy things that had happened to us, about Vito, about that night we crawled through the bushes together. We replayed all the moments again and again, until we couldn't hold onto them anymore and they drifted off into memory, and then even the memories grew stale after a while, and that part of our life together became nothing more than an old sepia photograph - we knew it had happened, but it all seemed inconsequential after a time. I had spent the first half of my life running away from my past, and the second half ...well, these days I often woke up buzzing with anticipation about the future instead...
"Daydreaming, baby?"
I snapped my attention to Sophia standing in front of me, a giant bowl of pink and white marshmallows in her hands.
"Yeah! Just ...thinking," I said and leaned over to kiss her, then swipe a marshmallow.
"Hey! Those are for later," she said and pulled the bowl back. "OK, give me one."
I smiled, picked up a pink one and gently placed it between my teeth, then hovered in front of her, wiggling my eyebrows so she knew to come and get it. She laughed, moved forward to catch it with her own teeth and just as she did, I snatched it out of the way so her incoming lips landed square on mine. We both burst out laughing.
"Oldest trick in the book," I said, stuffing the marshmallow into my own mouth and giving her a devilish grin.
"Asshole," she giggled, and made a half-hearted attempt to bite me instead.
"Dad! Dad! Everyone's here now so I can get my presents!"
Josh came skidding into the room with the triumph that only a child who knows he can't officially be put off any longer can muster up.
"Ok, buddy, let's go," I said, and we all went to the patio. Everyone was there. Naomi, about a million of Josh's friends from pre-school and their parents...  they all stood talking loudly and laughing, kids and dogs weaving lines between the adults, our two patio tables laden with party food.
Sophia sat him down in front of his cake and everyone sang happy birthday. I stood a little ways off and watched them, a strange, warm feeling swelling inside me. Sophia never had a mother, but damn was she a good one herself. She didn't know I was watching her. Her graceful movements, her patience with the kids, her warm, easy smile. A body so curvy it could make a grown man weep. Eyes, one blue and brown, like mine. A little dark, a little light, but still a pair, even if it was an unusual pair.
Josh blew out the candles and Naomi got to work cutting everyone a slice of cake.
"OK, moment of truth, buddy. Here's your present," I said, and reached up to the top of a tall cupboard to pull down a brightly wrapped gift.
I had handled many boxes like this as a child. Boxes with unspeakable things inside them. Bad boxes. Boxes that were small yet big enough to carry a whole lifetime of guilt. But this one? This one was covered in blue and red tractors.
... And it was light.

- THE END -














Heart Of Darkness












Blurb


Nobody has ever cared about my past before.

Until now.

Meeting Madeleine felt like being brought back from the dead. She reminded me of things I thought I'd forgotten, things that I had long ago taught myself to forget.

I've never wanted anything as badly as I wanted her, but she doesn't know what she's getting herself into.

And now I have to make the most difficult decision of my life...

Can I open my heart to her, completely - no matter how dark that heart is?

Prologue - Zack
It had all started out as a joke.
The base commanders were still stalling on setting up proper bank accounts for the guys, still struggling to keep morale up when the soldiers were flat broke, still trying to pass off those piece of shit ready meals as all part of the master plan.
We had been fired on twice already, and sustained losses from carelessness alone. The casual killing and destruction had already gone sour inside me, the images curdling into a strange cartoon in my mind, replaying again and again in lurid, mocking detail, and I had already gone numb, so numb that when she raised an eyebrow at me and suggested we do it, it was all just a joketuio
at first.
A dare.
I knew what people said about her. I knew what soldiers like her did on down time to keep those last shreds of morale going. But you have to understand - with that much darkness every single day, even the most twisted things can start to look like light. Like relief.
Even though it was all highly illegal, she said, "I can show you a place in town where we can get some real goddamn food," and when she said it, she got this hollow look in her eyes and her lower lip opened just a little. Just the tiniest bit.
Fuck, I didn't need to be asked twice. So we snuck off base that night into that piece of shit town and giggled like kids playing hooky. She handed a few crumpled notes to a withered looking street food vendor, and he looked at our uniforms as though it cost him every last stitch of willpower not to spit in the little parcel of chicken and fries he handed over to us.
We mock-saluted, she muttered the little Arabic she knew and we ran off giggling.
In the alley it was dark enough that I couldn't make out much of her face except the shine in her eyes as she blinked. But I could tell the exact moment it all stopped being a joke.
She cleared her throat, then crumpled the oily wrapper and tossed it aside. When I kissed her, her lips tasted like fear and loneliness and chicken grease.
A BBC guy had come a month ago to do a documentary on the secret sex lives of Iraqi soldiers, but his piece of shit project never took off. He had probably fucked her too. Probably right here.
"Wow, you must have been hungry," she said, voice silky in the darkness.
"It's been a while," I said and pulled her in close. She laughed a little. They're all still women, under the fatigues, blunt manners and rough talk. And under mine, I was still a man.
"I can see that," she said and ground her hips against my cock.
I buried my fist in the hair at the nape of her neck and yanked her head up towards me, kissing her hard. I was protein deprived, horny as hell, and feeling a little... nihilistic. Home was a universe away. Honor an abstract concept. Death was closer to me now, always skulking on the edges.
I undid her belt buckle and roughly pulled her trousers down, revealing two hot, tight thighs underneath and a neatly trimmed triangle of fur.
"You don't have to be gentle, Zack... I'm a big girl, I can take it. Just go for it." Still standing, she spread her legs a little and kissed me again.
Somewhere at the edge of my consciousness, a dark, heavy haze began to descend on me. It filled me up like a dust storm fills ups the sky and blurs the horizon. The haze blanked out my mind. Tightened my fists. Throbbed into my cock.
I grasped her waist and spun her around, flinging her against the rough brick wall so her pert ass was facing me. She arched her back as I groped urgent handfuls of her ass, her thighs, her hips, kissing savagely along her back, then unzipping myself.
"You're going to regret saying that," I breathed, and pulled out an angry cock. All at once I rammed into her little slit, and she bit down hard on her own hand to muffle her cry.
The haze thickened over me. I slammed my eyes shut and saw only death. Torn bodies. Twisted faces. Dribbles of blood in sand. I groaned and opened my eyes again, hoping the nightmare outside was better than the one inside.
Her body writhed and curled around mine like a snake. I whimpered and let go, the haze blurring over her now, erasing the soft features of her face, her shape. In the haze, she became a piece of meat. And so did I. And if our bodies were just going to be blasted to chunks in this godforsaken place then we might as well fuck for all we're worth while we could, right?
"Zack! Hey... easy tiger."
Even though she was a tough woman who had made a career of pretending never to be scared, I heard the flit of fear in her voice all the same.
My hips were now unleashed, something wild and unnatural uncoiling inside me, curling pump after pump of rage into her, so hard that her own hips were knocking into the wall in front of us, her belt buckle clinking and scratching against the rough brickwork.
"Zack, you're hurting me," she mumbled.
I could scarcely hear her. My world was sinking underneath a pall of black smoke. It sunk like fog into my tired, fearful body. Seeped into my hands as they held her down, pinning her there for the brutality I poured into her, stroke after stroke after stroke. I didn't stop. I could smell her fear. Her dark excitement. And I kept going.
She thrust her hips back against mine and groaned in the same pleasure-pain that had taken me over. I felt her greedy little body pucker and convulse around me as she tried to steady herself. Even in a woman like this, an animal like me could find deep pockets of depravity. I fucked her harder, lifting her up onto her toes. Just raw meat. Just bodies. Fucking. The haze curled round us both, and closed over like an envelope.
When I came to, we were still in that grimy alleyway. She was hastily buckling herself back up again and re-braiding her hair, a strange look on her pretty face. I tried to give her the shameful roll of notes I had prepared in my pocket, but she waved them away and frowned.
"Save it for therapy, buddy," she said, tucking her shirt back in. "You need it."
Chapter 1 - Madeleine
It had all started out as a joke.
I never really meant for it to actually go anywhere, but what can I say... I have a habit of getting myself into trouble and not having the balls to get myself out again.
"So what do you think?" I said. "It's not just me, right? He is cute, isn't he?"
My long-time friend and occasional co-conspirator gave me an amused look and then examined the photo on my laptop screen one more time.
"Well?" I pushed. "For a prisoner, I mean. He looks sweet, right?"
She laughed and shook her head. "I don't know, Maddy. He looks a little... prisoner-ish." She scrolled down to read the rest of the bio.
"You think so?"
"Well, he's wearing a jail uniform and everything."
"It's not a jail," I said, and grabbed the laptop from her again, "it's a correctional facility."
She crunched her eyebrows at me and took a sip of her tea.
I loved Annie because she was everything I wasn't: tough, perfectly put-together and the kind of woman that grown men fawn over because she 'gives as good as she gets'.  She called a spade a spade and even though I'd done my best to convince her that this was an 'inmate social network', she could see right through it for what it was.
A dating site for prisoners.
"Anyway," I said, "stop being so judgy, it's mostly just a joke anyway. I was just curious." I pulled up the modest photo album belonging to inmate 487 290, Zack J. Hunter.
Annie took another sip of her tea as she had a good look at the handful of photos he had uploaded. Most of them were on the small side, and it was hard to see him clearly. My fingers stopped swiping when we landed on a bigger, clearer picture.
Zack J. Hunter, standing outdoors somewhere in a bright, overexposed afternoon, his khaki prison uniform unbuttoned and rolled down to his hips to reveal a seriously built chest and abs that looked chiseled from bronze.
"Ah... now I see what's going on here," she laughed, and zoomed in on the photo. "That man is just a little more than 'cute', Maddy."
He had wild coils of wheat colored hair that were frozen mid-flutter around his smiling face, and though he was shielding his eyes from the sun, they still peered out from the laptop screen at us, sparkling with a kind of mischief that almost made me feel that he magically knew Annie and I were ogling him just at that moment.
"I know, right? What was his crime, being too hot?"
It was a joke I had already decided to make, well before Annie came over for her weekly tea and to visit Jasper. But I was glad to see that I was right. The guy was gorgeous, and it wasn't just me making poor life decisions again.
"Well, what is he actually in prison for?" she asked.
Jasper's pink triangle nose was always the first part of him that you saw, and when I saw it poking out from under the table, I was grateful for the distraction and reached down to pick him up.
"Hey, little one, do you want to see the hot guy as well? What do you think?" I held him up in front of the screen, his little kitten legs dangling limply. Jasper was unamused and wriggled out of my hands, then saw his chance to explore the table top and hobbled over it, poking his nose here and there.
"Well?" she insisted.
"Well what?"
"Is he like... a murderer or something?"
I sighed and flopped back in my seat.
It was, admittedly, the single question that had been gnawing at me ever since I had sent that first 'just curious' email. He had responded immediately, and the opportunity to ask him never seemed to arrive.
What exactly had he done?
I had scanned the same set of pictures over and over again, looking for clues. Were those the veined forearms of a burglar? Or the well-formed mouth and chin of a drug dealer? When I looked at his broad hands, his square jaw, his strong thick neck, my irresistible thought was to wonder: which precise part of him was responsible for breaking the law? His hands? His eyes? Something else...? He certainly didn't look like the tax-evasion type.
In any case, it wasn't a thought that I followed too far. I didn't like where it went. Besides, none of this was very serious. I was newly single, he was stuck in jail, and I needed the company. Well, human company, that is. It was a Sunday morning and my animal-tally was currently sitting at eighteen dogs, five cats (including pink-nosed, black-furred Jasper) thirteen birds, a pair of chickens, a rabbit, a fancy rat and an aging ferret who had terminal stomach cancer.
"I'm sure it's none of my business anyway," I said.
"What? You're not curious? What if he's a rapist or something?"
I slammed the laptop closed.
"There's no way he's a rapist, for god's sake."
"How do you know?"
"Well, he just, he would never do that..."
Annie gave me a long, hard look. I guess it did sound lame, especially coming from someone with my track record.
"Maddy, how long have you been emailing this guy anyway?" she asked slowly.
I shrugged and nervously tried to find a way to sip my tea when it was quite obviously finished.
"Maybe a few months? I don't know, not that long..."
"A few months? OK whoa."
"Oh god, you're being judgy again, Annie."
"I'm not. I'm just curious, what happens now? When does he get out?"
Annie had a way of asking, all at once, the very same irritating questions I had taken at least six months patiently avoiding asking myself.
"I have no idea."
"I don't get it. Would you meet him if he was released?"
"I don't know, Annie. Jeez, so many questions. Anyway, maybe I like the idea that he's stuck in there and that's the end of it."
She nodded and smiled knowingly.
It was true. When you thought about it, a prisoner was almost the ideal boyfriend. He'd never hit you up for money, and couldn't really cheat. Plus, you'd never need a restraining order, so there was that.
"When I said you should start dating again with a new guy, maybe I should have been more specific," she laughed.
We sat in silence for a while, wondering if the day needed another cup of tea, or whether it was time to call our visit complete.
"I did mean to ask you about something, though," I said changing the topic. "Jasper's food is nearly done."
Just because I was a vet, and just because I had a home full of abandoned animals that would rival Noah's ark, didn't mean I had the cash to pay for every little abandoned kitten that blew my way.
Annie was an old, old friend, and was going through a long-winded divorce. She would be moving out of her temporary flat in a little while, she promised me, and she'd take Jasper back, eventually. But I was beginning to feel taken advantage of.
"Oh shit, is it really? Are you sure? He eats so little. Anyway, don't worry about it. I'll be in the new place next week for sure and then I'll just take him off your hands, so there's no point getting new food till then, right?"
I gave her a thin smile. I didn't have the heart to tell her that his food had actually been finished for a week already and that I was feeding him out of pocket from the other cats' food. I certainly didn't have the heart to tell her that she had already promised me she would take him back two weeks ago, and that he wasn't even meant to be staying with me in the first place. But what was I going to do, let Jasper go to a high-kill shelter just because Annie and her husband couldn't sort their lives out and rehome him?
"Hey, do you want some more tea?" she asked.
I shook my head.
No matter how many hurt animals you save, you'd better believe that there are millions more waiting to take its place. Later, as I saw her out, she hugged me and kissed me and laughed, saying, "try not to take in any more strays while I'm gone, OK Maddy?" and I felt a hot little flush of irritation.
I smiled and waved her off. One day I would quit being such a pushover and put my foot down.
Not today, though.
In any case, maybe I didn't care if he was a murderer.
Chapter 2 - Zack
Zack: You should tell her the truth!

I stared at the words on the computer screen for a while, realizing how I could have easily written them for myself.

Maddy: I know I should :( I'm such a softie though. I guess because Jasper's such a sweet little guy I could never say no to him, you know?

Zack: But that doesn't mean you can't say no to HER.

I like instant messaging because it really isn't instant at all. It gave me just that little bit of extra time to think. To write a response, carefully. Hell, if I had that little time lag in real life, with just an extra spilt second for me to think before I spoke... well, let's just say I probably wouldn't be here in a steel reinforced computer lab, supervised by four guards and using my day's internet time to chat to a woman I met on Soulinmates.com.
I liked the way the logo on their page had two little brackets around the 'in' part of inmate, so that only the "mate" was left. That's why I was here anyway, right? Some parts of humanity need to be sectioned off from the rest, just so everything else can make sense. And that part was me.

Maddy: I think I have a hard time with that. I don't know how to be kind but at the same time not let people take advantage of me.

It was another sentence that could have easily been written by me.

Zack: I just err on the side of not being too kind ;)

I hit enter and stared hard at the winking face. I had avoided it till now. I couldn't flirt to save my life, but whatever, I was all the way in here, and she was all the way out there. Nothing would come of it, so why not? In a way, she was the perfect girlfriend already. She didn't expect anniversary gifts, she had no choice but to give me my space, and if she got mad at me, well, I was already in jail, right? How much more wrong could I get?

Maddy: I don't believe it for a second :) I bet you're just one of those big sweethearts on the inside. The fact that you like animals proves it.

Zack: Speaking of which, how is the old brood?

Maddy: They're good. The chickens are molting in the heat these days but they're happy. I think Gingko is on her last legs though.

The cursor blinked idly at me from the screen. It had been months and months of this. Easy, pleasant conversation.
Madeleine Bright had become a sweet spot in my bitter, incarcerated days. Every morning we'd meet at 7am sharp for a chat, and sometimes, she'd leave me an email that I could read in case one of the cats or dogs needed her and she wasn't able to make it for 7am. And the clunky old machines in Blantyre House Correctional Facility's only 'computer lab' became a strange confession booth for me, and from out that void her and I somehow forged a gentle friendship.
She never judged me. Never asked me awkward questions. She was just touchingly, delicately female... a respite each day from the dirty concrete floors, the clank of steel bar gates slamming shut, and from all the young men smoking furiously because if they didn't, their hands would soon find their way into fists instead. She was my rest from the drudgery of each day that looked exactly like the one before it.
She told me about her animals and her work. At first, she had assumed I was a vet as well. I had laughed and told her 'not that kind of vet!' and she had felt so embarrassed. It was pretty cute, our running joke. She never even asked where I had been stationed, or anything else. I was glad. I certainly didn't need to talk about any of that again. In fact, I would rather have listened forever to how she had to trick the cats into taking their medicine by hiding it inside cheese, or how people called her a crazy cat lady when she was only 28, or about nothing at all.
We did other stuff, though.
Once a week, she'd send me a picture. The first had been of her, posing at a friend's wedding, done up and smiling in heels inside a flowered arch. The one after that I liked better. She looked good au natural, with her wavy brown hair loose and snaking over her breasts. It made me think of fairy tales, her hair. She had a big, easy smile; a spray of freckles and a kind of goofy uneasiness about her that made you want to just hold her.
The first time she sent me a sexy one, she asked, "is this OK?" I had stared long and hard at that picture, and the cursor had blinked for ages, like it was blinking now.
It was a grainy selfie, and in it she was kneeling on her bed and peering nervously up at her phone. She was in a pink lacy number, but angling herself to conceal as much of her ample body as possible.
She definitely wasn't a slender woman. She was all circles and arcs, and the freckles on her collarbones faded out down towards very large, pillowy breasts. Her hair looked kind of girlish and wild. She was so white on her belly and thighs she was nearly translucent.
All my exes had been thin. Tall and big, but thin. She was the opposite... small and fluffy.
"It's more than OK," I had answered, and soon she sent me more, one picture a week, each one going a little further than the one before it.
Admittedly, I had screwed every one of my exes within days of meeting them. I was a third date or bail kind of guy, back then. Younger, stupider me might not have seen the point of all of all this chatting and emailing and back and forth. I was never going to fuck the woman, so why bother, right? And yet I did bother. Somehow, she never stopped seeming interesting. Every week, the prospect of a single, static image of Madeleine Bright posing in her bathroom mirror, or modelling a new bra or whatever... every week was a thrill for me.
Another message came through.

Maddy: Aren't you wondering what this week's picture is?

I smiled. I watched as a little icon appeared and the painfully slow Internet connection got to work pulling it from out of the ether.
I opened it.
She was completely naked.
I threw a glance over my shoulder and then leaned in closer, trying to hide the screen with my thankfully large body.
I didn't know where to put my eyes. Her hair was loose and wet, and she was standing in front of her shower. Even with a background of tacky cartoon ducks on the shower curtain, she looked like a queen. She was playing at being sassy, but the most endearing thing about the picture was how fragile she really looked. How shy.
Despite her coy posture, her breasts were full and low. Dark nipples. The curve of her flanks dipped dramatically at her tight little waist and swelled out again into two substantial hips. The hair at the 'V' above her thighs was sparse, but of the same carefree, light brown as on her head. She was beautiful. Beaded with water, buffed pink, a little coy, and completely, utterly beautiful.
I was instantly hard.
Fuck.

Maddy: Well? Haven't had a heart attack have you? Please excuse the wee bit of extra holiday padding :D

I really hated that. Why couldn't she see how gorgeous she was? She was almost 30, why was she acting like an insecure teenager, fussing about her weight like that?

Zack: ...
Zack: You know I have to go out in public now? Standing up right now is going to be ...a little awkward.

Maddy: Oh...? :p

Zack: You know, it sounds like you're almost proud of yourself.

Maddy: I am a little! I like the idea of you getting all hot and bothered on my account.

Zack: You're evil!

Maddy: Don't say that :) I could always send you a picture of Ginkgo next time if you prefer.

Zack: Now hang on just a second... Gingko is a good-looking ferret. Nobody could ever say otherwise. But I much prefer your beautiful body.

I watched the cursor blink. It had been a long, long time since I had flirted with anyone. A long time since I ...well, let's just say that the last time I had to try and hide a raging erection was sometime in grade school. And wondering whether any of this was turning her on was making the situation even worse.

Maddy: It's almost 8. You'll have to go soon.

Zack: Yeah. Damn. Same time tomorrow?

Maddy: Of course.

Zack: I loved the picture. Thank you.

As I hit enter, her avatar blinked red and she went offline. The computer was just a computer again. And I was back in jail. I swallowed down the lump in my throat.
What the hell was I doing?
Relax, idiot. She knows you're not getting out any time soon, so you can't possibly be leading her on, you're fine, you're not doing anything wrong here...
The guards unlocked for me and I made my way out into the hall, shuffled quickly to the bathrooms, slammed a stall door shut and leaned against the wall to catch my breath.
I squeezed my eyes shut and tried to piece together the picture again. The yellow cartoon ducks on the shower curtain. The wet tendrils of hair curling over her naked shoulders. The way the water had beaded into droplets on the swell of her thighs, like she was a peach in morning dew...
With one furious movement I yanked down my trousers, my rock hard cock bouncing free. I threw back my head and squeezed a rough hand over the shaft, stroking out the delicious sensations I had tried to hide just a moment before. My trousers slipped halfway down my legs and goosebumps shot through me. I teased myself to the brink, pinning down her plump, freshly showered image in my mind, breath coming in jags.
I stroked.
I pictured her soft little body bent double, me sunk deep between those pretty legs, burrowing all the way into her sweet body. I pictured that long, Maid Marion hair pulled tight in one fist while my other fist gripped hard round her neat little waist.
I stroked faster.
I pictured her shy, puffy little lips struggling to close around me, and her dainty eyebrows quivering as she slid her mouth all the way to the base of my cock. I pictured other things, too. Dark things...
"Eh, fuckhead! Clear out man, I gotta go."
I clenched down and shuddered silently, my balls tightening under me.
"Occupied!" I hissed.
"Zack? Is that you? Come on, your dick can wait, I'm desperate here."
I slammed my other hand into a fist. Fucking Roger Blunt, my cellmate and closest friend in this dump, although 'friend' wasn't the exact word I'd be tempted to use for him this very moment.
"Fuck off, dude! I'm busy," I spat and inched myself closer to coming, her image rapidly dissolving.
"Hurry the fuck up! Anyway man, congrats on the hearing." His voice echoed large all over the dingy tiled bathroom walls.
"What?" I mumbled, the edge of my orgasm retreating away from me. All that was left of her beautiful soft, wet body was the top of her creamy thigh. Real life was crackling in at the edges. I tried to hold on to the image. To her warm, welcoming smile. I was about to explode.
"Oh, you didn't know? A bunch of us. It's the day of judgment, man. Praise Jesus. This Wednesday."
A hearing. I couldn't believe my ears. Her pretty, bashful face came flooding back in full, taking over my whole awareness. Her smile was everywhere, and soon, into my shaking hands, I came one hard, thundering orgasm, my entire body tightening and sending sputters of white over my gripping hands. I growled under my breath. A hearing? It was almost too good to be true.
"Are you still fucking jerking it in there, man? Get out, I gotta take a dump."
Chapter 3 - Madeleine
It's not particularly profound but here's my revelation: lots of interesting things in life start with shit.
Just hear me out.
I had been rudely woken up that morning by a situation I had faced many, many times before. You see, sometimes I'd agree to board a recovering cat or dog at my home for a few days because there simply wasn't room for them at the clinic. Sometimes, the dog or cat in question would be ill, scared, or both... and I'd invariably wake up to some sort of disaster.
This morning, a bad-tempered maine coon mix had done a few panicked laps round and round my living room, all the while shitting herself and pulling out the stitches I had so laboriously put in the day before. The result was that I awoke to a house smeared with sickly brown stains over my sofa and carpets, and found her cowering behind some pot plants she had knocked over. The litter box, however, was pristine.
Everyone thinks they're an 'animal lover', but as a vet, I've quickly learnt that very few people actually do love animals. Not really. And when I woke to the smell and the chaos that morning, I could barely convince myself that I even loved them.
I looked over my shoulder and saw the dial gliding past 7 o'clock. Damn. I'd have to miss my regular chat with Zack. The other animals were upset and I'd need time to disinfect her wound again and re-stitch it. I'd probably get into work late, too.
Still in my pajamas, I ran a bucket of piping hot soapy water, threw the sofa cushion covers into the wash and got to work with a spray bottle of stain remover. Still groggy and on my hands and knees, I tried to maintain composure.
Be compassionate, Madeleine, they're just animals.
But the more I scrubbed, the angrier I got. Other women my age were out there having fun. Or they were married and thinking about baby showers or wedding color schemes. And here I was, wearing faded pajamas and cleaning up cat shit. And not for the first time, either.
I worked angrily, pulling the stiff brush bristles over the stains again and again, till the froth came up high. The animals in the house could sense my irritation, and had all skedaddled, except the maine coon who hid behind my destroyed pot plants and scowled at me.
Then my phone rang.
"Crap," I hissed and flung the brush into the bucket, sending spuds flying. Drying one gloved hand on my pajama bottoms, I swiped at my phone and answered without seeing who it was.
"Hello?"
The voice on the other side was immediately familiar.
"Maddy? Maddy, is that you? Maddy, I've been thinking so hard about things... can we talk, baby? I hope you'll just hear me out..."
It was Alex.
My ex.
My difficult, emotionally unavailable, lying, manipulative, selfish-in-bed asshole of an ex.
Be compassionate, Maddy.
"Hey, Alex. What's up?"
"Oh nothing, it's just, man... I've had the craziest night. You wouldn't believe what I've been through. I had this dream the other night about you, and it was crazy, do you mind if I tell you about it quickly? I know you think this is crazy, but will you hear me out for a second?"
This was Alex's game. Alex's difficult, emotionally unavailable, lying, manipulative, selfish-in-bed asshole game.
He only ever wanted what he didn't have, so just about the only time he was kind and sweet to me was when we were completely broken up and he was trying to earn my forgiveness for being such a dick. And then I'd forgive him. And then he'd go right back to being a dick again. Then I'd break up with him. Then he'd realize how badly he wanted me.
The last few times he had called, he just wanted to tell me all about how much he'd grown, how much learning he'd done ...and about how I owed it to him to give him another chance.
"Alex ...I'm just a little busy at the moment, can I call you back some other time?"
"Well, yeah, sure, I guess ...it's just that this is important, don't you think?"
"Sure, it's important. I hope you're well. But I can't talk right this instant." Out the corner of my eye I could make out the maine coon dashing away from her hiding place.
"Well, why not? What are you doing?"
God, I did not feel like this right now. My eyes turned to follow the maine coon and make sure she wasn't getting into any more trouble, and I instantly caught sight of little Jasper clawing his way into the jumbo-sized bag of cat food. One of the dogs must have chewed a hole in it and now Jasper was dangling from that hole, little feet two inches off the ground, his head buried deep inside the bag, eating away at the food that was for all the cats that lived here and meant to last me till the end of the month.
I dashed over and tried to pry him loose, wedging the phone between my ear and shoulder, accidentally smearing his black fur with soap bubbles from my other hand.
"Jasper! Get out of there!"
He twisted around, scratched my hands and dashed off, just in time for me to see the maine coon squatting down in the living room corner, preparing for another assault on my beleaguered carpet.
"Hey! No!" I yelled and raced over to shoo her away, but not before she released another jet of yellow-brown cat shit behind her. The putrid smell filled the air.
"Maddy? Maddy? Not being rude or anything but you could try to take this a little more seriously. Are you even listening to me right now?"
"Alex, I'll call you back..." I started saying, glad that at least the maine coon had run outside. But just as I was about to breathe a sigh of relief, Jimbo, one of the bigger dogs, came blundering through the house, curious about the fuss and accidentally tripping over the soapy water bucket, sending it spilling over the carpet. I nearly exploded.
Then something happened. My ultimate shit morning was now coming to a head.
I ripped off my wet glove and flung it to the ground, gathered my strength and yelled into the phone.
"Alex, stop calling me! I don't care! We're broken up and you should stop calling me. Goodbye!"
I could hear his protests as I hung up. Almost instantly my fingers dashed over the screen and I called Annie, and spoke into her voicemail.
"Annie, it's Maddy. I'm sorry but I can no longer hold your cat for you. It's been months and if you don't take him today, I'm dropping him off at St. Clara's. I'm sorry but I'm not running a charity here."
I tossed my phone onto the couch. Heart still pumping I padded right through the wet carpet, in my socks, and went into the kitchen with Jimbo looking on dumbfounded.
I heard my phone ping.
Fuck them all.
Give people an inch and they'll take it all, and shit on it, and wonder why you aren't grateful for the privilege. Well, I was getting sick of it.
I stood for a moment in the kitchen.
I was a cat lady. And this was a cat lady's house. Instead of interesting gourmet goodies and wine and pretty china, my kitchen was filled with dog and cat medicine and bags of food and disintegrating chew toys. Instead of waking up in a slinky negligee in the arms of a man who adored me, I woke to the stench of cat shit and a house full of sick and dying animals that took and took and never gave me anything in return.
So, I decided that just for today, I was done.
I turned on my heel and walked out of the kitchen again. I couldn't have had more than $200 in my bank account at that moment, but I would have gladly paid that all to a cleaning company for the joy of not having to be in that house that morning. I stripped off my clothing and threw it onto the ground, then headed to the bathroom.
I quickly checked my phone.
A new message from Zack. I quickly opened it and read it so quickly it took me a few seconds to process.

Zack: I had my hearing today. I'm going to be out on July 6th.

Heart still beating madly and full of fire at having told off not one but two toxic people in my life that morning already, I barely thought twice as I tapped out a message and sent it quickly.

Maddy: That's great news! I can't wait to meet you :) :)

Good. Assertive. No more doormatting for me.
Naked, I continued on to the bathroom and climbed into the shower, setting it as hot as my skin could manage.
Well, didn't I want to meet him? I had kept him a secret from everyone - after all, what was more tawdry in the world than meeting a prisoner on a dating site? And I had already had enough of Annie's 'concern' about me and how I was probably incapable of choosing a man who wasn't an abusive douche.
But out? He was getting out?
As the hot water pummeled down over my body, I felt stupid for not anticipating it. Of course he would get out eventually. And so what if I did want to meet him? Maybe I could be a little proactive in life for a change. Maybe I deserved a hot, sweet guy who flattered me and never failed to show up when he said he would. What's the worst that could happen?
As the water melted over me and soothed my nerves a bit, the panic set in. I roughly shampooed my hair, my head filling with steam and worry. What if he was a murderer? What if he tried to murder me? What if he was already making a plan to head over to my house right now, while I was in the shower and...? I turned the taps off, squeezed my hair out and ran back into the living room, towel wrapped round my dripping body.
I picked up my phone and dialed.
"Hello, Annie? Oh god, I'm sorry for that previous message, I don't know what got into me... I'm just under a lot of stress at the moment, you know? Don't worry about Jasper, of course he can stay here as long as you need, I understand how hard it's been for you."
As I spoke into the phone I double and triple checked the locks on the doors, the warm shower water going cold on my bare legs.
Chapter 4 - Zack
"What woman could you have in your life beside your old ma, huh?" she cackled playfully, and did up my tie for me.
"Gah, ma, that's too tight. Are you trying to kill me?"
"Ladies like a well-dressed man. It's the least you could do."
I looked at my 'well-dressed' reflection, wiggled the knot a little and tried to see exactly what was so much better about me now compared to how I was before. As far as I could see, shiny shoes and a nice collared shirt didn't do squat to pretty up what was inside my head.
"There, look at that," she said and looked on with satisfaction. "You always did clean up nice. You have your father's good looks, that's for sure."
If there was one man in the world I didn't want to resemble, it was him. But a man's character is more than skin deep. And having just spent the better part of two years in a cage with nothing to my name but my own skin, I knew that better than anyone. We're all just meat. Just great big bags of meat. When you're on the inside, your face and your name and all that crap don't matter one bit. It's as pointless as a pretty knotted piece of fabric around your neck. No, the only thing that matters is who you are. And I was a man. At least, I was when I walked out of the giant steel gates two days ago. I had to 'adjust' now. Living with ma for a little bit, catching my breath, getting a job, wearing white, ironed shirts. These were all things I had to remember how to do. And meeting women. There was also that can of worms.
Ma's house was oppressive. Too small. It felt like I was in danger of getting caught up in a doily or a lace curtain at every turn. My mom was old, and tired, and had the kind of nice-old-lady home that only widows ever have. She sure as hell didn't need her six-and-a-half foot tall, thirty-two-year-old ex-con son trampling over her crystal ornaments and little vases of dried flowers.
Before, when I had come back from my first Iraq deployment, my oversized boots in her spare room were ...endearing.
Now? Not so much.
Now, when the war had only been with my own stupid self, those big hulking boots were less acceptable. I knew that. But it was all going to work out fine. I'd leave soon, and in any case, her bones were becoming brittle and she needed a little extra help getting up and down the stairs. So we did out little thing, her and I.
"Be good, baby," she said as she closed the door behind me and I stepped outside into the free world. A free man, choosing of his own free will to wear a too-tight tie.
My mind switched gear: the image of wet, curled hair on bare shoulders came blustering into my mind like it had been waiting patiently for a free moment. I had never expected her to be so eager to meet. In fact, I was banking on her disappearing after I shared the news with her. What sane woman would want me? On the other hand, had I ever been drawn to a woman that was sane?
She had been so cheerful about it. She had suggested this coffee place about twenty minutes from ma's house, and I remembered having gone there a few times, way back in another life. I had beat off to this woman's picture more times than I could count. And now I was wearing a pressed pair of trousers, a fresh white shirt and new shoes for her.
Life was funny.
I smiled as I descended the steps and half wondered if I'd cream my pants just meeting her in real life.
The bus trip went too quickly, and I found my palms prickling up with cold sweat as I got closer. It had been dumb, to flirt, to say what I had said. I could see that now. Usually I copped out with the strong silent routine and girls loved it all the same, but I had opened up to her because I guess I never imagined we'd actually meet. And so it was all safe.
She was safe.
From me.
I stepped off the bus and even from across the street, peering into the giant windows of The Magic Bean Café, I could recognize her instantly.
There she was.
I could have made out her glorious light brown hair in a whole line-up of mermaids. She was sitting in the corner, nervously watching the entrance. Like me, she was adjusting herself, trying on different facial expressions. Trying to look cool.
The bus pulled off again behind me and I stared for a moment, heart pumping. That was her, but without me in her life. Yet. Safe, perfect and happy. And in a moment, I was about to walk in there and change everything.
I took a deep breath, said a little prayer that she wouldn't be put off by me, and stepped out to cross the road. The café inside was warm and noisy, but her cool blue eyes hooked onto me and held my gaze as I walked over and sat down in front of her.
She looked up at me, hands folded in her lap, and I could see it: she was petrified. And why wouldn't she be? She probably thought I was a murderer. Most people in this nice little normal-people café probably thought the same thing. Why had I never told her?
"Zack," I said and held out my hand.
"I know," she said and hesitated to put out her own hand.
When I touched her fingers, I found them just as clammy as mine. She tucked them quickly back under the table again. I sat, hating how warm it felt all of a sudden.
"Do you want to get some coffee?" she asked.
I smiled, and for the next few moments we called the waitress, ordered drinks, and pretended like we hadn't already seen one another naked.
"So, what's the outside world like? Still like you remember it?" she finally asked, a nervous smile playing on her lips.
I had to remind myself that this was the same woman who had told me about her childhood, her dreams, her pets, her work challenges, her little health niggles, and the cupcakes she wanted to make on the weekend. A real, live woman. I only knew one, small, two-dimensional part of her. But fuck, it did feel like I knew that small part really well.
"It's OK. Two years is actually not that long..." I lied. It was long. An eternity, without a woman.
Our coffees came and she wrapped nervous fingers round her cup. All at once, she launched into a little speech. The people at the table next to ours glanced over nervously, eyeing my tattoos.
"It's so nice to finally meet you, I've been so nervous and everything, but I have to be honest, before we carry on, I've been dying - I really mean just dying - to ask you a question," she said, looking flustered.
In a way, I was glad she wanted to ask. I stuck my finger into the knot of the tie and wriggled it a little looser, and then I held up a hand and cut her short.
"Hey, I know this has all gone a little fast. You know, I didn't expect to get out this soon either. But there's no rush ...for anything. And I think I know what question you want to ask me."
I tried to hide my shaking hands by gripping the coffee mug and taking a sip.
"You do?"
I wiped the foam off my lips.
"Yup. You want to know if I'd like to go for a walk with you after we're done with this lame coffee act, and enjoy the sunshine out there," I said, and took another sip, not breaking eye contact for a second.
She giggled and looked at me sideways.
"Oh? Is that what I wanted to know?"
"Of course. You're feeling a little shy though, because I'm just so goddam handsome, so you're not sure how to ask me outright. But don't worry, I got you," I said, and playfully bumped the side of her arm with my fist.
She blushed and broke out into silly giggles.
Thank God.
Thank God she liked that.
Don't ask me where it all came from, but maybe I still knew how to treat a woman, if I could just dust the rust off those parts of myself.
"Well, smartass, you got me, that's exactly what I wanted to ask you." And suddenly, all at once, like I had tripped and fallen face first into something gooey and delicious, her warm eyes caught mine and held my gaze. Held them and trapped them like honey traps a fly, like an immense star traps a little comet and holds it close in orbit.
And so we looked at each other.
And looked.
"I bet I can also imagine what question you have for me," she purred, lowering her voice a little.
I leaned in closer.
Oh, I had questions all right. I wanted to know why she had ever joined that site in the first place. And what she did late at night, on her own, after work. And what she wanted. And yes, I wondered what her body wanted, too. I had guessed endlessly at how she might like to be touched, and what turned her on, and wondered whether she liked it rough, or whether she painted her toenails, or the precise sounds she made when she came. I wondered what I could ever do to give her an orgasm.
"Oh? Well go ahead then, I am feeling a bit shy to say," I said, and played a little at being coy.
She smiled broadly at this and leaned in a little closer. I hated the table between us. I would have smashed it to a million pieces with my own bare hands if it meant I could get an inch closer to her.
"Well, you're wondering... you're wondering why I agreed to come out here, and meet you," she said, suddenly a little serious. "You're wondering if I'm crazy."
I looked at her blankly. I had been wondering exactly that. The look in her eyes intensified a little and she went on.
"I think... that you're as nervous as I am. And Zack, I do want to ask that other question, you know the one I mean."
She hadn't come across as this candid in any of our long text chats or emails. I was taken aback by her bluntness. Being rusty with women is one thing, but I was all of a sudden reminded that I was never any pro to start off with. This woman, with her long, unstyled hair and powder blue eyes, this woman who was half my size and twice as sweet, well, it definitely seemed like she could hold her own.
"Then ask me," I said.
My hands were close to hers. So close I could touch them by accident. It felt delicious to pretend I hadn't noticed. I wondered if she had. I wondered if I could nudge them even closer.
She sighed, tossed her hair to one side and looked off to the distance and then back at me.
"Zack, are you a bad man?"
It was as though there was an electrical force field crackling between her fingertips and mine.
"That's not quite how I imagined you'd ask that question."
She waited patiently for me to answer.
"Are you asking what I did? Why I went to jail in the first place?" I was beginning to regret not getting all this ugly stuff out of the way sooner.
"No, no, no, I don't care about that."
"What do you mean?"
"I'd really prefer not to know."
"But..."
"But I want you to just tell me, right now, if you're a bad man."
I took a deep breath.
"That's... that's a very complicated question. It's not so simple to decide if someone is all good or all bad, you know?"
"Is that your answer?" she said quickly.
I wished I could tear this godforsaken tie off and never lay eyes on it again.
"No, not really. I mean..."
"It is a simple question. Nevermind anything you've done in the past, or what happened, or why you were in jail. Of course I've wondered about it. But I realized, right now when you sat down, that I don't care. I just care if you're a good man, right now."
I was shocked by her sudden intensity. Outside, she was all soft circles and arcs. But her words were sharp and came quickly and with such force that I found my hands sweating again. Putting on a shirt and tie was one thing, but I hadn't expected the third degree like this.
"So, are you?" she asked, then leaned back in her chair a little, as though my answer might take up extra space between us.
Was I a bad man? Fuck, I didn't know. Aren't all men bad?
"You have a way of asking really difficult questions, you know that?" I said at last, trying to lighten the mood. She smiled naughtily at me, and sweet lord if it didn't melt me to my core.
"So that's your final answer," she said and playfully traced circles round the rim of her coffee cup.
I laughed out loud.
"You don't let up, huh? Ok, you want an answer? You really want me to answer truthfully?"
"Yes, truthfully."
"You sure? You might not like the answer..."
She was giggling and blushing again.
"Go on, tell me already."
"I'm not a bad man..." I started, and gave her a dark, serious look. "But I am a man."
The smile fell a little from her lips as she looked up at me, trying to decipher my expression. It would have taken no effort to lean forward and kiss her just then, and taste those silky little lips of hers. Had this woman done nothing but give me hard-ons in inappropriate places for the last six months?
She nodded sagely and smiled, then traced her finger around the cup again. The static between us was crackling once more.
"Good answer," she said, "and now I can see that my coffee is almost finished..."
Chapter 5 - Madeleine
Jokes on him: I probably was crazy. On a whim I had suggested we meet, and on a whim I had put on the only dress I owned that wasn't matted with cat and dog fur, and on a whim I had flirted hard with him. I had no idea what I was doing.
But if felt good.
And as the words left my mouth I realized I believed them. I actually didn't care what he had done in the past. I was certainly no good girl myself. What I cared about was who he was now.
I had dated all the 'good men' anyway, and how had that worked out for me? It wasn't that complicated. My life was passing me by, and if I wanted to have a fun fling with a hot bad boy from prison, so be it.
It was so much nicer and sunnier outside, and as we walked and found our way to the park, I couldn't decide whether it was the caffeine that was making me buzz ...or the way he kept passing little sideways glances at me.
His jaw was sharp and hard - the kind of jaw that always looks clenched tight - and his cheekbones were the same. It was only his eyes that were soft, and I suppose he thought I didn't notice when he snuck a peek here and there at me. I tried not to think of all the pictures I had sent him. Of some of the stuff I had written, late at night when I was feeling lonely and reckless.
As we walked through the manicured gardens, we had our same old conversations as always, only this time, he was right there. Not locked away in a cold, steel box somewhere. Not just safe little pixels on a screen. But a real, flesh and blood man. And he was ...bigger than I had expected.
Before, my images of him had only taken up little squares of space on my laptop screen, and his words had fit neatly onto a phone, or into short emails. When I closed my eyes and thought of him late at night, the thought was always small and manageable, too. But now, here, in the flesh... he was overwhelming.
I chatted and told him about the animals, about the clinic. And all while the sun shone, dark, delicious thoughts crouched on the edge of my mind. He was bigger than me. Much bigger. We could easily take a turn on this innocent path and find ourselves out of earshot for just long enough for him to ...whatever.
My thoughts lazily flitted up to the verge of some possibilities but then came dashing back again. We joked about nothing, laughed at this and that. But I never lost track of the way his neck muscles were moving under his shirt. Right there, on the brink of my consciousness, there was another conversation going on. One between our bodies. My mind toyed endlessly with the idea of him as my 'bad man' ...but I had understood his answer earlier on that day. He certainly was, without doubt, a man.
When he yanked off his tie and threw it carelessly over his shoulders, I thought I'd die of a heart attack.
It had been so long since I had been with anyone. Even before Alex and I had broken up, we had spent long, bitter nights in separate rooms, my body wincing at even the idea of brushing past him in the corridor on the way to the bathroom. But now the prospect of the tanned triangle of skin that appeared at Zack's throat was enough to send my head spinning. God, I hoped he hadn't caught my eyes darting over to ogle him.
We reached an obvious split in the road and looked at it, and then at one another. The air chilled a little as the sun passed behind a cloud, and a shadow flushed over the entire park.
"Are you going to murder me and put me in a ditch or something?" I blurted. Oh fuck. Where did that come from? What the hell happened to playing it cool and not caring about his past? I tried to laugh it off as a joke but he shot worried eyes at me.
"That's really creepy, Maddy, why would you say something like that?" he said, a little hurt.
Of course he wasn't going to murder me. Jesus. I wasn't even sure if he was, you know, into me at all, so why was I flattering myself that a hunk like him would ever bother? I hadn't been myself lately.
Idiot. I kicked up some gravel on the path. "I just ...I'm sorry, I don't know where my manners went, please try and forget I said that," I stammered.
The path to the left was away from the city, leading into a quiet, shaded grove. The other path wound out into the sun and looked as if it meandered out of the park and back onto the sunny main road.
"Which way should we go now?" I asked, hoping my face would stop burning soon and that he'd have mercy and stop peeling off items of his clothing right here in broad daylight.
"Why don't you decide?" he said and looked at me.
"Again, I'm so sorry."
"Sorry for what? Forget it. Which way are we going, huh?"
I looked the two options over. High, and low. The right way, the wrong way. I envisioned Annie's concerned face and saw her wagging her finger at me.
Never go to a second location she had said. Send me a message the instant you're done, and let me know if it goes past an hour.
Kissing this gorgeous beast would be heaven. But I wasn't sure yet if it was worth the risk of landing dead in a ditch, no matter what he said. Sure, I was on a mission to be less of a 'fraidy cat these days, but the darker path could wait...
"Let's head this way," I said, "I need to make my way back to town."
He nodded happily and we set off to the right in silence.
"Just so you now," he said, "I usually save my murdering and ditch activities for the third date anyway."
I spun to look at him, but he winked and grinned mischievously back at me. I burst out laughing.
"I cannot believe you just said that!" I squealed and slapped his arm.
"What can I say? I'm old-fashioned that way. I just like to get to know my murder victims a little better, that's all."
The naughty sideways smile he flashed me sent electric volts down my spine and straight between my legs.
"You would murder me? After we've had such a nice coffee date together?" I said and pretended to pout. He smiled big and broad as the sunshine.
"Murder you? Well, easy there, we've only just met, I mean I haven't even decided if I like you yet."
The next thing I knew he had twirled me around and clasped me by the shoulders, and before I could say anything he planted firm, soft lips against mine. I froze and then went limp under his kiss. Somehow, all his raw magnetism seemed to condense to a single point somewhere on the tip of his sweet tongue, and as he leaned down and pulled me up into him, I whimpered and kissed back eagerly. His lips were slick and soft and warm.
He pulled back and I looked up at him, astonished.
"There, I just wanted to get that out of the way" he said, straightening tall. "Should we get going?"
He extended a hand and I took it, and then he guided me out of the park and back into town, where we hugged and parted ways without speaking much. Though the entire date had taken just less than an hour from start to finish, I spent all of that night tossing fevered in my bed, half resisting the dark, strange dreams quietly seeping into my mind, and half welcoming them in.
Chapter 6 - Zack
I can remember overhearing two of the prison guards talking one day, soon after I went in. They had been doing that kind of friendly griping that only people on lonely night shifts know how to do, and one had chuckled and said, "Man, we're right here in prison with these fuckers. We're all in one prison or another," and I had smiled sourly and thought nothing more of it.
Until now.
The standard issue trousers and heavy-duty work shirt were at least comfortable; I'd give them that. They were dusty dark blue and made to look like an officer's uniform, only not so flimsy or restrictive, and they felt warm against the chill night air. The 9mm Glock they had given me was in good nick but had probably never fired a shot, and it hung down heavy on my hips together with a pair of handcuffs and a flashlight, both bobbing a little as I walked all the way to that end of the corridor, and all the way back again.
It didn't look much like it to me, but it's what my counsellor had called 'progress'. It was the graveyard shift at a draughty domestic terminal at the airport, but it was also, like I remembered that old prison guard saying, a prison.
Hands behind my back, I paced up and down restlessly like a jaguar at the zoo, and thought of her lips.
Against the cold tiles of that terminal hall, and the darkness outside and the relentless clink clink clink of my handcuffs hanging behind me, there was one damp, hidden spot inside my mind, and that spot was the memory of her warm lips.
I had kissed her, and for the last few days I had been feeding off that same kiss, pulling it out every few minutes, examining it, seeing that is was still hot and beating and alive, then putting it away again, shocked that I owned such a memory at all.
"Jesus, what part of no don't you understand?"
I turned to find the source of a distressed female voice, and immediately saw an angry looking woman marching across the mostly empty terminal, an equally angry looking man shadowing her.
She had been crying.
In another life, I would have called her a 'civilian'.
The guy caught up to her, yanked her by the arm and spun her to him, then hissed a warning under his breath at her while she scowled and tried to wriggle herself free.
I walked over sharply, and the guy released his grip at the sight of me.
"Everything all right here, ma'am?" I said.
She flashed angry eyes at the guy, then at me, then at the guy again.
"Everything's fine," she said, mortified. "There's no problem officer, I'm sorry,"
That's women for you. The really damaged ones are even humiliated by their own debasement. This dickhead didn't seem to have much shame himself, and why would he, when she was doing double?
"Ma'am, if this gentleman is harassing you..."
The both of them exchanged a fiery, loaded glance at one another and then looked back at me.
"There's no problem," the guy said. Weedy looking fucker, too. I looked at her, but she only gave me a thin-lipped smile and they both hurried off, looking embarrassed.
As I paced over again to my area, I felt angry. Angry that he was angry. Angry that she wasn't. She couldn't know it, but I would have gladly torn that asshole limb from limb if she had just given the word. The Glock would stay virgin - for an asshole that treats women like that, only a swift, thorough beating would do. Men like him were animals, and what they deserved was a fist, not a bullet.
I watched them scuttle off.
Then I got sad.
That would probably be the most exciting thing to happen to me that night. I paced to the edge of the corridor and paced all the way back again. I wouldn't go home for another two hours. Fuck, I hated this.
Instead of taking out my kiss memory and examining it again, I found myself thinking of my ex instead. When she had looked at me, had she really seen nothing but a pushy, weedy guy, the same as the one I had just politely warned?
I clenched my fists in my pocket and paced harder. She was in the past now, fuck her. I had done my time, my slate was clean and even if there were some smears of her left on my heart, I was done with all of that. In the eyes of the state, according to law, I was a free, redeemed man.
And later on, I'd go home and put myself away and to sleep in a little room with a quilted duvet cover and a Virgin Mary on the wall and move another day further from her. What more could she possibly want from me? One prison to another. Fuck them all. I'd serve out my second, longer sentence out here in the world, and I'd guard against remembering her whenever I could, but hell, I guess I didn't have to like it.
Against my clenched fist, I felt the buzz and ping of my phone. A message from Maddy. I paused for a second before opening it. She didn't message often, but those sweet little bubbles throughout the day were precious to me, and I wanted to savor them.

Maddy: We still on for tomorrow? Jasper says he's packed and ready for his new home :)

The phone buzzed again in my hands and a picture appeared of a black kitten with a desperately cute, worried face, nose poking out from inside a little carry bag of cat toys and blankets.
I had only known Maddy - in the flesh, at least - for two weeks, and already she was filling my world with warm little bubbles. And with kittens. Must be nice, I guess, being a vet and swanning around without a care.
I wrote her back.

Zack: My mom will love him to death. Can't wait to meet him!

I hit send and slid the phone back in my pocket.
Women can be prisons, too. I wasn't sure what the hell I was doing with her, to be honest. Did I really want to get involved? Get drawn into a big... relationship? I tried not to think about it. So I thought about other things.
In my imagination, my security guard uniform morphed into a kind of samurai's outfit, and my firearm into a ruthless sword. The random people straggling in and out of the terminal were all innocent civilians, fearful and helpless in the face of a vast war that was unfolding around us all, and I stood, heart filled with vengeance and a howling lust for the blood for my enemies, for true justice, for the glorious chance to cut down an army of weedy, simpering men, one by one, with my sword.
The walls of the building crumbled and fell away, and all that remained was a platform, floating in outer space, only the stars there to witness a clash of unspeakable proportions. My real weapon would be my body, not clothed in regulation overalls but wild and free, and my sword would be my singular, divine instrument, slicing away at closed doors and locked rooms, forever...
My phone buzzed and shook me from my daydream.

Maddy: I hope Jasper's not the only one you're looking forward to seeing tomorrow... :D

I read the message, put my phone away again.
In my fantasy world, there were no coffee dates. No dating apps or ironed flat shirts or manners. In my fantasy world, I didn't ask Madeleine which way she wanted to go at the fork in the road in the park. I just picked her up and carried her off with me into the shady grove of trees, far away from the city, and held her there, and gave her exactly what she needed.
Chapter 7 - Madeleine
I loved this feeling. Just on the threshold of sleep, on the verge of almost, almost waking up. As long as I squeezed my eyes shut and kept still and quiet, I could draw out that slow waking feeling, and sort of ooze and ease into the day. And there was something sexy about it too.
I'd been nothing but a cloud since he kissed me. All weightless and floating around and filled with sun, and the memory of his lips was best in the early mornings just before I woke up.
In my half dreamy-mind, I saw the tiny triangle of tanned flesh at his neck, and imagined slowly peeling it away, to reveal that broad, muscular chest underneath. When he had hugged me, I had felt it press firm against me but for now that part of him existed only in pictures.
Nestled in the blankets, only one or two morning rays poking through the drapes, I slid a curious hand down over my belly and slipped it between my legs. A new discovery: just the thought of him could make me wet. I slipped careful fingers over the nub of my clit and rubbed sleepily, stroking up those sensations he had first put there that day in the park when he tilted his head and slain me with that cheeky grin of his.
The animals were probably all still snoozing, and the house was mercifully quiet. I exhaled loudly and nuzzled my face deeper into the pillows. I never wanted to wake up, if it meant staying here in this dreamy haze with him a little longer.
"Can't even wait to get started, huh?"
My heart stopped. I jumped so quickly out of bed I nearly flew, yanking the covers with me and screaming in panic at the alien voice that had appeared in my ear a second before.
Alex.
It was fucking Alex, curled into a ball on one side of my bed, smirking like the Cheshire cat.
I stood on the far side of the room, speechless. Like I was going to throw up. Or cry.
It had been almost 3 full months now since we had broken up. How long had been lying there like that? Had he...? Had he been watching me while I slept, while I... touched myself?
"What are you doing in here?" I said coldly. I felt the rage prickling at the back of my throat, bitter. He smiled and tucked the sheet round himself, looking very pleased with himself.
"Was I interrupting anything?" he asked with mocking eyes, and I realized with horror that he had been watching me. I felt violently ill, and pulled the covers tighter around me. He already knew I was naked under those covers, but I pulled them tightly round me anyway, so tight I'm sure my knuckles whitened with the effort.
"You... you have no right to be in here, Alex. Just get out. I have to work," I said, trying to sound like I meant it.
I hated how shaky my voice sounded. I wanted nothing but for him to take his stupid face and his stupid grin and get out... so why did I sound so unsure when I said so?
"You've been ignoring my calls."
I could feel my skin begin to sweat under the covers. If I dropped the blankets now, I could probably run and make it to the kitchen door and slam it closed. But then I'd be naked. And I'd still have to run past him. I tried to think if I could run to the bathroom instead, and shut myself in there. If it came to it. I gulped and tried to think. Alex had a way of making you picture the worst-case scenario.
"If you don't get out I'm calling the police," I said, my voice a little firmer now.
His grin stuck to his face. He looked me up and down.
"Can you just chill out? I thought I should just speak to you in person, you know?"
I laughed bitterly. "You have to leave now."
"Have you found someone else, baby? I don't get it."
"Oh for God's sake, Alex, don't call me baby like that. We're broken up. I'm sick of this," I said, hearing the threat of tears as I spoke. With him, I never knew if I was more tired or more scared. Tired of being scared, maybe.
His expression hardened.
"So you have then? You have found someone else?" he sat up in the bed and my breath twisted inside me.
"Even if I have, it's got nothing to do with you. We're not together anymore."
He peeled off the covers and climbed out of the bed, like a spider, and took a few steps towards me. He was fully dressed, right down to his scuffed Converse trainers. I hated him for that. For getting into my bed with shoes on. How the fuck had he gotten inside? Didn't it mean anything to get locks changed anymore?
His upper lip curled a little as he looked me over again, this time with something nasty in his expression.
"Do you think that just because some losers show you a little attention, that you're hot shit all of a sudden? How many people are you screwing anyway? Tell me. God, you always were in such denial."
He came round the side of the bed, killing my hopes of dashing past him and out of the house. I felt my blood pumping cold through my veins, but I tried to stare him down. To keep my calm. Underneath the soft duvet, I was ready to fight him. Or die trying.
"Do you get that? Can you actually understand that most guys just want to use you?" he said, stepping closer still, so close I could smell the sourness on his breath. "Guys just use girls like you, Maddy, for fuck's sake, think." He curled his forefinger and tapped hard on my forehead.
I winced and pulled back.
He laughed.
"Don't give yourself airs, baby. You're a pushover and you don't know what's good for you. Tell me... tell me how many guys you've been dumb enough to fuck since we went on our break? Huh?" He turned his head to the side, making me think of some kind of deranged parrot.
"My sex life is none of your business, Alex. Get. Out," I spat, the words taking every last shred of courage I had.
My therapist had coached me about conversations like this. I was wiser now. Stronger. And I now knew what to call these little episodes: abuse. I knew that I didn't have to do this anymore. That Alex had problems, and that they weren't my problems. But still, the words stuck in my throat and needed to be forced out.
His facial features tightened.
"You're pathetic," he hissed, and smiled as he watched me squirming. In an instant, he had yanked the covers away from me, tossing them aside. My nails burned where I had clawed at the fabric, and now I stood naked and cold, the warm Zack-flavored feelings between my legs completely evaporated.
He took a step back and looked me up and down.
God, I hated him.
My phone was on the opposite bedside table. I could make a dash for it and try to call someone, but who? And what would happen, once I tore off? Alex was an animal - and I didn't want to activate his prey instinct. My body coiled up inside itself. He was not going to pour poison onto me again. Not again. Not today.
"Christ, have you gained weight or something?" he said, and shook his head.
I took a deep breath and tried to squirm away from his gaze, casually making a move toward the bedside table. He thrust out his arm and blocked my way. I would have rather died than let my bare body touch him. So I recoiled.
"I'm sorry, I don't think I was done talking to you," he said, with the same twisted mouth.
"Alex, I will not allow you to bully me like this. I'm going to call the police."
The words felt like a miracle to say, but the sad truth is that they weren't all that magical. He just kept staring at me all the same. His eyes just glided over me again and again. I squeezed my eyes shut as he extended a hand and stroked a long, horrible line down from my ribcage to my navel. I had nowhere to go. I was backed into a corner and couldn't run. I wanted to cry. He saw my reaction to this and smirked.
"God, I'm just trying to be nice here, can you not be so rude? You always were so dramatic," he chuckled, and repeated the same movement, this time drawing it out. The word 'no' stuck in my throat, choking me.
"Please don't hurt me," I mumbled, and instantly hated myself for saying it.
Did I have to be so fucking weak? The flash of anger on his face was too quick for me to process. All at once, his fist came flying through the air and landed hard against my cheek, knocking me dizzy. The room spun as I realized with horror: he'd hit me.
Hard.
His lips were curled again as he looked at me with disgust.
"I told you not to flatter yourself. I'm not going to lie, I definitely thought about it on the way over here. You know, for old time's sake. But fuck me if you've turned into a goddam whale. You make everything difficult, you know that? I can't even bring myself to try."
He turned on his heel, kicked the blankets aside and went to stand on the other side of the room.
Slowly, a painful ache began to radiate through the bones of my cheek, but my fingertips shook so much when I lifted them to touch the skin that I couldn't tell if I was bleeding or not. For a second, the room went quiet and all I could hear was the pump of my heart in my ears. It hurt like hell. How the hell had he gotten inside?
"Why did you have to go and mess everything up, Maddy? Everything was fucking perfect," he said, and as he screamed that last word he upended my bedside table with a kick and sent it flying across the room, my phone with it. Benji started barking outside.
"Please just leave," I said with a shaky voice.
His face was dripping with poison as he looked me over, shook his head and slowly backed out of the room.
Benji was still barking nervously as I heard Alex bluster out of the kitchen and slam the front door. With keen ears, I made out the sounds of him getting into his car, starting the ignition and taking off.
I stood frozen all the while, cradling my splitting cheek in one hand, naked, staring down at the discarded blankets that only a moment ago had been a safe cocoon for me, a place where if I closed my eyes and imagined it hard enough, Alex didn't exist.
When I was sure he was gone, and when the dogs had stopped fussing outside, I crumpled down onto my knees and scrambled for the bed covers. Wrapping myself in them, I curled onto the floor and cried to myself. Inside my cocoon again, the sobs came jagged and painful, and my chest shuddered with each heave. He was right, of course. I had to face reality. My big stupid romance was with a shady guy who hadn't even been out of prison for a month. Of course he was using me, what guy in his right mind would go for a woman like me?
And I had gained weight, it was true.
All of it was true.
I felt my tears flowing hot and seeping into the cotton of the covers. My fingers went to the folds between my legs again, in the darkness of my blanket cocoon, and I tried in vain to find that sweet, heavenly sensation again. To see if the memory of Zack could soothe me now.
Nothing.
My body was lifeless.
I drew my hands back again and clamped my legs closed, focusing instead of the ache in my face. The animals needed their breakfast. Gingko needed her medicine. And I'd probably need 15 minutes to cover up whatever mess he'd left on my face before heading into work, where creatures of all kinds would squawk and whimper for me for eight solid hours. I'd do all of that. I'd find a way. I'd install better security. I'd book an emergency appointment with my therapist. I'd swing by the police station before work.
But for the next few minutes, I just wanted to cry, by myself, inside my blankets.
Chapter 8 - Zack
I was surprised to see it. At first, I couldn't make out what it was, but then it dawned on me: a bruise. The size of my palm and the color of a rain cloud right before it splits, right there on her pretty, milky white cheek. She had spackled layers of beige make up over it but frankly this almost made it worse.
"Your... your face," I said, standing in the doorway like an idiot.
She smiled weakly.
"Oh, this? Yeah, that's nothing, I just fell. The dogs, you know, they give me a hard time," she said, and I wondered if she even wanted me to try and buy such a story.
Someone had hit her, clear as day. The idea hit me and made me sick on her behalf. I wanted to know who, and why, and where I could find the fucker. I wanted to go back and change my answer to her, the answer to the question she had first given me. I wanted to tell her, of course I'm not a bad man, if that's what she was really asking. I would never, ever do that to her.
Instead, I said, "Oh yeah? I'm sure they give you a hard time!" and she smiled some more and invited me in.
Her home made me feel strange inside. She had a series of mismatched sofas covered in even more clashing throws and rugs. There seemed to be a cat curled into every corner and onto every upholstered surface. A deflated foil balloon hung limply on a stick inside a vase next to the TV. The balloon said "you're a star!" in sparkly lettering. The place was run down, seemingly every little crack in the wall or scuffed skirting covered over with a jar of flowers or a Polaroid of her and some smiling girlfriends. How could anyone hit a woman who lived in a home like this?
"Please excuse the mess," she said merrily, and went to fetch me a drink, calling out for Jasper as she disappeared into the kitchen.
I stood for a moment, taking it all in. Her house. The place she had sat here alone, chatting with me while I was locked up. A mangy looking white tom cat slinked his way against my legs and butted me with his head till I stroked him. I sat down, and sunk deeply into the sofa.
"I was meaning to ask if your mom had a litter box and stuff or if she needed one..." I heard her yelling from the kitchen. When she appeared in the doorway, it happened. It felt like a light bulb blowing. Like the popping of a firework in the dark. I looked up at her, cat wound round my legs, and she stood there looking back at me, mid-sentence and arms full of cat accessories, and she looked at me.
I swallowed hard, unable to tear my eyes away from her. Her mouth hung open a little. We were hypnotizing each other, both daring the other to look away. It scared me a little.
"It's... it's good to see you again," she said, blushing and busying herself with cat stuff again. She was cute when she was embarrassed.
Men could never love women, and women could never love men, this much I knew. But maybe romance could bloom here, in this run-down single room apartment covered in cat hair, even if only for a heartbeat. And maybe even a fucked up ex-con and a woman with a bruised face could find a few moments of love here, even if those moments only lasted the few seconds we had as we caught each other's eyes across the living room. Maybe it was over already. My great romance peaked and over already with this woman, starting and finishing in the doorway of her kitchen. What more could I offer, anyway? My bruises, if she knew how to see them, were far uglier to look at than hers.
She plonked some items down close to the door and then plonked herself down next to me, denting the ailing sofa in even deeper. We both smiled at this.
"You big brute, you're too big for my house," she said playfully, and in an instant she was in my arms again, and I wanted to weep with how fucking good it felt just to hold her lips in mine, just to taste that sweet tongue darting around my mouth.
I groaned as her hands went to clasp the back of my neck. I leaned into her, pinning her quivering little body against the sofa and melting into her eager, greedy little mouth. She was the most beautiful thing I had ever seen. Or tasted. Every last stray critter and broken piece of furniture and mark on her skin... all of it was amazing to me.
She pulled back and smiled at me with glowing eyes.
"Thank you so much for taking Jasper off my hands, you don't know how much it means to me."
She didn't really need to thank me. My mom had wanted a pet for ages, and was getting lonely in the house in any case. And she had one kitten too many. It was a practical solution.
"Just doing my job, ma'am," I said and playfully saluted, and she giggled. Just as I leaned in to kiss her again, I heard her screen door bang open behind me. Then a strange voice.
"Maddy? Maddy, are you home?"
Her muscles tightened so quickly in my hands I thought they'd snap. Her eyes went wide and wild and she froze. I was about to ask her if she was expecting someone when the voice came again, and her eyes shot to a point right behind me. I spun around to see a man standing in the living room. My mind raced.
"Baby...?" the man's voice trailed off as we both took one another in.
I had been trained for this. For these high-cortisol moments where one strange moment seems to stretch out forever. I thought of the blue and yellow mark on her face. In that split second, I twisted my body round to position myself between him and her, throwing my weight into my thigh muscles so I could spring up quickly.
There was the entrance I had come through, behind him, likely one in the kitchen and if this was the kind of built-in-the-80s house I thought it was, there'd be a cheap frosted glass fitting in the bathroom that could be kicked clean out in an emergency. There was a glass ornament to her left that I could wield if necessary, but I had a better chance of taking him directly, since he wasn't armed and a good few inches shorter than me. Low-ish muscle tone, no tats, civilian dress and no defensive posturing. I could have him pinned to the floor in less than six seconds.
"Who the fuck...?" he started saying, and I realized she was cowering a little behind me. It was him, no question. The guy that had hit her. I stood up and puffed my chest a little. I didn't want to let her know it, but I would relish giving this guy an ass-kicking, if he asked for it. I slowly extended my hand, not taking my eyes off him.
"Zack Hunter. Nice to meet you. And you are?"
I knew all about guys like this. Wiry little shits with attitudes better suited to snappy handbag Pomeranians than grown men. I'd patrolled with some of them, too, and they were all talk and hot air until it came down to actually backing it all up with action. How had such a beautiful woman gotten involved with him?
He smirked at me and peered round my shoulder to glare at her.
"Baby? Are you kidding me? This guy?" he laughed and then lifted his eyebrow at me. "She tell you she already has a boyfriend, shithead?"
I felt Maddy's little hands rise up and touch the small of my back. I can't describe it, but that little touch alone, so soft and tentative ... it broke my heart.
"Zack, he's not my boyfriend," she peeped from behind. "We already broke up. A long time ago."
"I think you'd better leave," I said, voice calm.
The air crackled a little as I felt him gathering his courage. Predictably, he lunged forward with flat hands and shoved my shoulders. I barely moved, and simply took a step towards him, clenched fists to my side. I peered at him through narrowed eyes and said slowly, with as much threat as I could squeeze into my voice.
"We can do this if you want, but it will not go well for you."
It was faint and lightning quick, but I could have spotted it a mile away: that brief, panicked flutter across his face as he realized I meant it. But he was bluffing hard, and stood his ground. I didn't need to look to tell that Maddy had already dashed off and was now pinned against the wall, watching us with horror. I hated to think of her being used to any of this crap. I might have been a no-good kind of guy with tattoos and a bad reputation, but in that moment, I wasn't going to stand by and let that asshole get his way.
When he took a swipe at me, I dodged it and returned a jab right back at him, just a warning clip on the rim of his chin. He staggered back a little but with a righteous fury, he came pummeling back at me, stabbing left and right at me like a drunk kid in a club. I dipped to the right, twisted his arm behind him and pinned his back against the front of my chest, pulling him in to a hard half nelson with my other arm. It was almost too easy.
I briefly caught sight of Maddy, both hands clasped up to her mouth and her eyes wide, too scared to even yell at us to stop. The cats scattered.
"Did you fucking hit her?" I hissed into his ear, and I felt his body inhale as he gathered his strength, dropped his weight and tried to slip out of my hold. Gritting my teeth, I squeezed him hard, released him and shoved him away from me, sending him reeling and stumbling to catch his footing again.
Maddy was in the next room over now, fumbling with her phone.
"You want more?" I said, taking threatening steps towards him. "Or are you gonna fuck off already?" I would do it, too. I would kick the shit out of this guy if he didn't stand down.
Before he had wiped the spittle from his smirking face, he took another sloppy lunge at me, sending a glancing blow against my left ear, making it ring out. Good. At least the little fucker had some fight in him. I smiled and went for him, plowing into his ribs with my fists, then raising a swift knee to his flank and digging it in deep, bringing him crumpled down into a heap on the floor. A bead of blood crawled out from the corner of his twisted mouth.
"You want more? Buddy, I could go all day," I said and towered over him as he coughed a little, clutching at his guts. Taking a beating was second nature to me, but men like him? Arrogant little pricks like him? I always enjoyed watching that cockiness slip from them a little when they quickly realized how close they were to getting their asses handed to them.
He raised a hand and lifted a fuming face to glare up at me.
"Where the fuck did you find this guy, Maddy?" he spat, and staggered towards the door.
Maddy was far off in the corner of the adjoining room, her little eyebrows twisted up in fright, both hands clutching her phone.
"He's a bad guy, Alex!" came her voice from the other room. "He's just gotten out of jail. I mean it. You better not try anything!"
I tried not to smile at this.
"Well, you heard her," I said and shrugged at him, a wry smile escaping my lips.
"I've called the police, Alex. You can't come here ever again," she said, and what was left of my heart broke even further. The asshole waved a dismissive hand and made for the door, kicking a small dog out the way and clutching at his middle.
"The next time you come back here again and bother Maddy, you won't be walking out, you'll be leaving in a body bag," I said quietly.
I could still feel the blows ringing against my knuckles. I swallowed the wave of adrenaline down. I meant every single word. He eyed me cautiously for a moment and stumbled out, spitting a little blood and cursing under his breath.
When I was sure he was gone, I turned to see her face melt almost instantly into tears. I rushed over and held her head between my hands. She was sobbing so loudly I couldn't make out what she was trying to say.
"Hey... hey, relax, it's all over now. Shhh... it's OK now."
I was truly shocked by her reaction. I had so many questions. I hated the thought that she had suffered a problem that a swift ass-kicking could have solved in a minute and a half. Who the hell was this clown? How long had she been suffering like this? Had he hit her a lot?
One look at her face, though, and I knew that my questions could wait. She collapsed against my chest and cried hard for a moment, and I stood still with her in the silent room, my arms wrapped right the way around her.
And I felt something.
I don't know what it was, but it felt good. It wasn't the satisfying crack of my fist against his bones, or the submissive look he had given me as he slunk out. It wasn't the fact that she didn't have to deal with him by herself anymore. It wasn't the sweet sense of calm washing over us both now.
But it was something.
It crept through me slowly at first and then all at once. With her pressed up hard against me, I felt my cock stiffen.
Chapter 9 - Madeleine
I don't know when my life turned into a Maury show. Or some kind of TV drama with a muscled man beating away intruders and then kissing me passionately once he'd defended my honor. But it was happening nonetheless. And I kind of liked it. It was all happening so fast that I didn't have time to stop and think.
I watched as he quickly went outside, then came back in again, locking the door behind him. The phone fell from my trembling hands and I threw myself into his arms, and he held me so tight that I could still feel the fight in him, still feel his strong heart banging inside his chest and against mine, and the heat in his hard arms, and how everything about him seemed coiled so amazingly tight, and something about it all made the tears come, and soon I was crying like a baby against his cheek.
There wasn't a concealer or heavy-duty powder strong enough to cover up the nasty fact of Alex in my life. But Zack had seen that ugly face of my life and... he hadn't run. He had stayed. Not only stayed, but stayed and helped me. The thought alone made it hard for me to stop crying.
Then he tilted his hips against mine, just a little. Just the smallest, politest gesture, but it was more than enough to feel his intention. He was rock hard against me. I gulped. Could that really be his...
"You're such an animal," I laughed. And wasn't he? Beating off my other suitors so he could... well, you know.
He laughed with me, kissing the top of my head and stroking my hair, the full length of his tall body pressed against me.
"Luckily, you're an animal lover..." he whispered darkly. The thrill his words sent through me was so electrifying I felt my clit thump instantly. Here I was, a crazy hysterical woman with too many cats and a bad ex and a bruised face. And now I was wet. Very wet. Almost without thinking, I squeezed my legs together and tilted my own hips to his. Just a little.
"I just can't believe what just happened. I've never actually ...it's kind of shocking," I blurted. "You're such a badass, like you just... you really hit him so hard, and you ...you defended me," I said, my voice full of disbelief.
I couldn't imagine it. A macho man beating my asshole ex out of the house would have felt like a dream come true if I had ever had the audacity to dream up such a thing.
He lifted my head to his and gave me a hard, serious look. His lips were so close.
"Maddy, I would do it again. I mean it. I don't want you to ever have to deal with that shit again."
I stood up on my tiptoes and sunk into his beautiful lips, and sighed, and felt my tears coming on again. I kissed him hard and deep, and he kissed back, cradling my head in his big hands.
"Shhh... it's over now," he said tenderly. He didn't realize that it wasn't Alex who was making me cry. It was him.
His tenderness disappeared and in one rough movement he raised his arms above his head and peeled off his shirt, dropping it behind him. When he lowered his arms again, the muscles of his immense chest settled and flexed a little, his caramel skin rich with tattoos. He pulled me in again for another kiss, and I felt him smiling against my lips.
"That shirt was just getting in the way," he mumbled, and I moaned my agreement. Firm hands went to the base of my spine and nestled there, then guided me around and down onto the sofa again.
This was crazy. Dangerous. I had only met him once before, and he was a criminal, wasn't he? Had I lost my mind? If he was the bad guy, then who had staggered out of my house a moment ago with a split lip?
My head was in pieces.
I obediently crumpled down onto the cushions, but held onto the kiss, unwilling to tear myself from his gorgeous lips.
A few weeks ago, this man was nothing but a fanciful dream for me, a picture on a screen, a man that belonged somewhere else... and now we were so close I could smell the excitement in his skin, and feel the heat of his body as he kissed me more deeply.
His hands pawed urgently over me, trying to find their way to my skin through my clothes. Closing both firm hands round my waist, he lowered his full, glorious weight down onto me, our hungry tongues still playing their delicious game, and I opened and exhaled loudly as his strong body pinned mine to the sofa beneath us. I wasn't going anywhere. And so what if he was a 'bad man'? So what if he was a brawling thug who had tattoos and a shady past? If it felt so delicious to have his strong hips pressing my legs open, did I even care?
He planted a knee on either side of me, then rose up and gazed down at me, stroking his hands over every part of me, slowly, as though his fingertips were tasting me.
He was twice the man Alex was.
Fuck, he was twice the person I was. Both of my hands could fit into one of his. Two of me could fit against his broad chest, and his tongue was twice mine and easily kissed circles around it. He was so tall that he had to curl his spine to lean down and kiss me again.
I hadn't been with a man for a long time, but he was still double all my memories. Still more than enough man for me. Too big. Too tall. Too much.
When my fingers went to his belt buckle, he watched me with pleasure, then pushed aside my hands and unbuttoned, unzipped, and peeled them away to reveal a thick, long knot in navy blue boxer shorts. I traced tentative fingers over him, guessing at the size and shape of his cock like it was a Christmas present and I had to try figure out what was inside.
He was fucking gorgeous.
He towered above me, straddling me like I was the next in line to be conquered. I wondered what dangerous situations his body had triumphed over, and what else these thick arms had done in their time. I wondered what parts he would use to tame me.
I giggled at the prospect. I could scarcely believe that any of it was happening. He smiled down coyly at me, stood, then hurried to wriggle off the rest of his clothing, freeing a springy slab of cock from his boxers that was nearly thick as my arm and the same pink as my blushing face.
I couldn't help but stare.
He kneeled down in front me and with gentle but determined hands, and set to work removing my clothes. I surrendered and watched myself become more and more naked under his expert fingers, his hard bobbing cock never far from my awareness. It thumped heavy against me once or twice as he rolled my jeans off and with them my now wet underwear.
I was spellbound.
His hard hands - still red on the knuckles from where they collided with Alex's petulant face - were now so soft and careful over my skin. When I was completely naked, he contemplated my body again and smiled, and something ached in me. My arms crossed lightly over my soft belly. My usual shield.
"I'm... I'm sorry. I know I need to lose a little weight," I said. I felt like I had just spoken to him in a foreign language.
"Lose weight?" He seemed confused.
"Yeah, I'm sorry, I haven't been to the gym in a while... anyway, I'm working on it," I said, laughing anxiously. He gave me the same look, then leaned forward to kiss me, this time with more gentleness.
He pulled back and stroked a hand over my abdomen, then carefully pried my arms away. My arms obeyed. It was so easy to do whatever his body suggested. I found myself dropping my hands to my sides again, and flopped back, naked and undefended. He looked at me. At last, after more gentle caresses, he said simply, "I don't care what your body looks like. I only care about what it does..."
His eyes caught mine and he flashed a devilish grin at me.
"Well, all I'm really good for is caring for sick animals," I blurted.
"Not true. Your tongue, for instance, is very good at doing this..." He leaned in for another deep, juicy kiss, and I returned his enthusiasm. "And I'm sure you're good at other things, too..." he said, and stroked the curve of my belly and hips again.
For some stupid reason, the tears came again, and soon two hot, stinging drops were rolling out the side of each eye and down into my hair. He leaned forward and kissed these too, and then put his lips against the ugly bruise on my face, whispering, "I'm sorry he hurt you."
I squeezed out the last of the tears and kissed him again, so he would stop speaking, or maybe so that I wouldn't have to. We fell into a long, fluid embrace and his body caressed mine easily. He was gentle and sweetly patient, pushing me only a little at a time, caressing the tension and fear out of my body. But there was no doubt: we were going to do things. We were going to fuck. The thought alone made me giddy. Though my body melted under his touch, my heart was galloping furiously inside me.
He was unlike Alex in every way.
He didn't look at me awkwardly, waiting for me to entertain him like a girl in a porn clip. He didn't kiss my pussy for 4 milliseconds and then watch my face to see if I was screaming in raptures. In fact, everything he did wove an experience in my mind that I hadn't even thought possible before. We were on some delicious, deep, dirty journey with one another, and it seemed obvious that Zack, knowing the way, would show me. Every step. He knew where we were going, and there was no hesitation. And no turning back.
When he pressed the soft pad of his thumb against my clit and stoked me slowly, it was though he already knew it would send my head back and pull out moans from deep inside my throat. When he firmly parted my legs and pulled my hips down to better access me, he did it with perfect belief that it was what I wanted. Because it was. And when he took his thick cock in his hands and dabbed the head against the swollen-slick entrance of my body, he did it with the confidence of someone who already knew I'd be melting by that point and dribbling in eagerness all over him.
And so when he finally breathed the words "just relax for me" into my ears with damp breath, I did exactly that, feeling that he was the obvious expert. Using strength from somewhere inside his strong thighs and hips, he introduced the tip of his dick into me, while both his hands clasped my waist and anchored me down.
He was an animal. A wolf. Or a bear or a fox with nimble paws and quick eyes and a keen, mischievous nose. There was nothing for my body to do but follow his. I cried out a little as he pressed his girth into me, widening me up and touching me in a deep, dirty place that I had forgotten existed.
I could hear his breathing as he slowly slid in deeper. The fact that I was visibly giving him pleasure only ratcheted up my own. He pressed all the way in, this mysterious stranger, this man I knew and yet didn't, this convict, this man who had done enough wrong to be thrown into jail and yet whose entire body seemed designed for my ecstasy, right in that moment.
"You like that," he growled into my ear as he pulled back and stroked into me again. It was more of an order than a question. The width of his hips split my thighs apart and he drove himself all the way in again, with another strong, deep thrust. I could feel every inch of him. I could smell him.
My body jerked and shuddered as he pumped in again, and then again, finding some delicious, dirty rhythm inside, fucking me with one long, smooth, hard stroke after another, right where I needed him.
With legs wide, I opened to his athletic body, melting under a torrent of frantic kisses and caresses. From his hips up he was gentle and thorough, his careful tongue and delicate fingertips touching me so delicately it almost felt like reverence. But below his hips ...his cock was a blunt, forceful weapon. He was soon pounding wave after wave of bliss into my grateful pussy, and it was a bliss so deep it sunk right through to my bones.
"You like that?" he asked again, his voice hot in my ear.
I moaned and bit down on his shoulder, anchoring against his barrel chest for the punishment I was receiving down below.
"You fucking love that don't you?" he growled, fucking me harder still, and this time I couldn't help but cry out.
"Oh, fuck yes... oh God..."
I wasn't myself. This kind of thing couldn't possibly have been happening to me. Here I was, with this hot, darkly tattooed, gorgeous thug of a man, and he was all over me and everywhere and inside me, fucking me so sweet and deep with a cock that made me want to kneel down and worship it.
His breathing abruptly changed. He pulled back and up a little, and his sweat-glistening torso heaved a little as he tried to calm his shuddering breath. Deep inside, I could feel him twitch and squirm, close to the edge himself. I watched in awe as he composed himself, closed his eyes and took a long, luxurious breath, something sexy twisting on his lips, half smile, half tormented grimace.
"You know, I never asked you the same question," he said, breath coming in jagged rasps. I could feel my own body tightening and swelling around him, the swollen folds of my body still reverberating from the relentless treatment he had given me just moments before. In that full, delightful pause, I felt like I could hear both of our hearts beating wildly.
"What question?"
I looked down as a wave of goosebumps flickered over his tan skin, and his brown nipples gathered to a point on his defined chest. He was truly a site. Rippled with muscle, his long torso led down into a sparse, black bush at the base of his cock. And to my delight, every last inch of that cock was now buried far up inside me.
"You know, the question you first asked me. Are you a bad girl?"
I smiled and gyrated a little against him, desperate for that stuffed feeling again, for the weight of his body tensing on top of mine. I certainly felt like a bad girl right now.
I noticed his hands were clenched hard on the tops of my thighs. Rope-like tendons strained in his neck. Beads of sweat. He was pretty close to coming.
"Me? A bad girl?" I said and pouted playfully. I squeezed my internal muscles all along the length of him and felt him twitch in response.
"Hm, I just don't know," I said, realizing that with just the right movement I could easily topple him over the edge.
The look he gave me was adorable. Pleading. Astonished. Painfully, beautifully turned on. Holding his gaze firmly in mine, I began to swivel my hips around the sexy, solid length of him inside me. He whimpered a little.
"Oh fuck ...stop or you'll make me come," he mumbled, and I could see him beginning to lose control. I smiled wickedly at him and swirled my hips again. His abs twitched and he shuddered hard in my arms, clenching his jaw down hard.
"Oh fuck..."
"I'm not a bad girl, Zack, I'm a very, very good girl." I curled my hips into him again, drawing him in even more deeply, stroking him inside with my hot body, so close to losing control myself. I quickly placed both hands under my butt, pushed up off the sofa and threw my hips up against him, taking him in right to the hilt and clenching hard against his delicious cock.
I watched his eyebrows twitch as he gasped for air.
"Oh fuck..." came the throaty growl, and with a helpless shudder, he came hard and all at once, scooping up my body and ploughing viciously into me with everything he had.
He grunted through clenched teeth and pumped the last of his orgasm into me. I couldn't hold on. My own orgasm hit me hard, and I tumbled slowly, a long, dizzying climax that felt like falling, like surrendering... I think I must have cried out, or bitten down on him, or clawed at his chest, or bucked and groaned like the animal that I apparently also was. I don't know. I just know that in a moment he was crumpled into a hot mess on top of me, both of us panting, a warm buzz still fluttering between my legs.
I heard him chuckle to himself, slide out the wet heft of his cock and give my ass a playful slap.
"Yes, you certainly are a good girl," he said, and even though he was standing there completely nude, dick red and bouncing between us, even though I was sprawled out on the sofa and laced with sticky white globs on both my thighs, and even though the room smelt of sex and we had fucked so hard I swear I smudged some of his tattoos off... I still blushed like a schoolgirl when he gave me a cheeky smile and lay down beside me.











Chapter 10 - Zack
"She's... I don't know, I just can't describe her."
I didn't usually speak to my brother about my love life, but let's just say it had been a month of firsts and strange beginnings. And he did ask.
My brother Ben and I have what I can mostly call an opportunistic relationship. We got along well enough... when there was time. Since he's the eldest by five years, he could actually remember a time when my old man wasn't a complete bag of shit, and once in a while liked to take it on himself to remind me how things hadn't always been this bad, and that ma used to be happier, and things had been better before. At the end of the day, though, men don't love women. Not really. He might as well have been trying to convince me that unicorns roamed the earth before I was born, but were conveniently all gone now.
Growing up, Ben and I competed a lot. We were even competitive in the way we chose to act out after dad finally left and ma began what would be a decades-long repeat of the same mental breakdown every two years or so. I guess we were different kinds of 'bad'. Ben was already on his third marriage by the time I found Maggie, but the joke was that my relationship with her went so bad, so fast, that I soon caught up to him in the "fuck up Olympics", as we liked to call it in our teens. Competing with him wasn't that much fun anymore, now that we were older and both of us had started to feel just a little beat down by life in general. Oh well.
"What's her name?" he asked, and took a swig of beer. He was getting a little on in years, and I was still considering whether I should give him a hard time for that little pooch hanging over his belt.
"Maddy."
"Oh, shit, her name's Maggie?"
"No, Maddy. As in Madeleine."
"Huh. Kind of creepy how close their names are. You got a type, huh?"
"Nah, not really. Her and Maggie are like chalk and cheese."
"Is Maggie the cheese here?" he asked and cocked a goofy eyebrow at me.
I laughed.
"Well, let me put it another way. They're like chocolate and ...Brent crude oil. How's that? Make it any clearer for you?"
He chuckled and took another swig, then relaxed into that 1000-yard stare of his, adjusting his weight on the camping chair a little. It was getting dark and cold, and I began to wonder if I was just imagining mosquitoes buzzing round my bare ankles. I hated fishing. But my brother wasn't the kind of man to just chat for no reason, and since friendly faces were thin on the ground since I was released, I had agreed to come along.
"How is Maggie anyway? Spoken to her lately?"
I hadn't and I didn't care. I had heard friends of friends mention that she might have moved out of state and had a kid, but when it came to our small town, that could have been anyone. I didn't care where she was or what she was doing there. That chapter of my life had closed.
I shrugged my shoulders and he nodded. At least Ben always knew well and good when to leave a topic alone. But he tried another one.
"Your new girlfriend. She uh... she know about your little... incident?" he asked, not tearing his eyes from some distant point on the horizon, well aware that no fish in its right mind would be bothering us this evening.
I took a swig of my own.
"I haven't told her."
He turned and gave me a long, dry look.
"You uhhh...?" He lifted his eyebrows again.
Even with the pretense of fishing, Ben still didn't exactly chat with me, but kind of just suggested things with his face and waited for me to catch his drift.
"Slept with her? Yeah."
He flicked a stone he had been rolling between his fingertips into the water and it broke the still sheet into a few thin, circular ripples.
"Huh. Dude, you'd better tell her."
"Well, she knows I was in prison. Just... she doesn't know why. Yet. I met her on one of those... you know those dating sites for prisoners."
He was going to needle it out of me anyway, so I may as well confess straight out. I sipped nervously. I've lived long enough to know not to truly compete with any man, but there are some races your older brother will just always beat you at. I waited to see what he'd say.
"Well shit."
He crushed the can a little in his hand and tossed it over, landing it in an empty bucket.
"So what's her deal then? Got a bunch of kids? Is she ...you know...?" He made some vague gestures with his hands and pulled a face, suggesting any number of possible ways a woman who would willingly date a prisoner might be, well, ...you know.
"There's nothing wrong with her. Christ. She's nice. She's a vet and she lives alone. No kids but she kind of fosters animals before they get rehomed and stuff. Really sweet woman. Long, long brown hair. Really pretty hair. Blue-ish eyes..."
He looked at me, waiting for the catch.
"Well shit," he said, when he realized there was no 'but'.
"Ben, I think... I think I really like her."
"Buddy, you met her like a few weeks ago. I know it doesn't feel like it, but she's not the only woman in the world, you know."
"She's the only woman like that," I said.
He smiled broadly at me and sat up in his seat.
"Hoo boy, you're a goner," he said, whistling low and shaking his head.
I punched his arm.
"Shut up. I mean it. She's... different. She's sweet and kind and really gentle."
He stood up and went over to the cooler box, picking up a fresh beer and gesturing to ask if I wanted one.
"Nah, I'm still working on this one. She's got a really good heart, you know?"
He sidled back over to the camping chairs.
"Kinda makes you wonder what she's doing with a guy like you then, huh?" he laughed, and cracked the tab on the can.
"Kinda."
"Don't you think it's weird she doesn't want to know why you went to prison? Like, at all? You could find that all out in five minutes with Google."
He had a point. It was weird. But she was just different. This was a woman who rescued an abandoned parrot and nursed it back to health, even though it had done nothing but bite her each and every day since. She had lost count of the unwanted animals she had patiently rescued and rehomes. She never cared how the animals that came into the clinic got that way. She just helped them, as they were.
"I'll tell her soon. She's a good woman. She deserves to know," I said decisively. "And I'm looking for better jobs now, too. I'm getting back on track," I added, as though the prettier I could make my life now, the easier it would be for her to accept how ugly it used to be.
Ben settled down into his old spot on the horizon and said nothing more about the topic. I could tell what he was thinking, though. That I would share my deep dark secret with her, and she'd flip out and I'd never hear from her again, plain and simple. And to be honest, I was secretly thinking the same thing.
Chapter 11 - Madeleine
The darkness was blanketed all around me. There is good in this world, and there is bad.
I huddled closer in to the small, wavering flicker of flame and held it in my hands, breathing in the hot stream of air that snaked off the top, staring deeply at the blue core of the fire. As long as I kept my focus on the light, it would all be OK. The darkness would be OK.
And it all depended on me being able to stand here still like this, in the dark. It didn't matter that this was just a medicine cupboard and that it was 9am on a boring weekday in a boring suburban animal clinic. Darkness is still darkness ...and it's the same everywhere.
I cradled the match flame in my hands and went as close as I could to it, breathing the warmth in.
Nobody knew that I did this. It was such a secret, I barely even remembered myself when I started doing it. Maybe after Alex left. Maybe before that even. Or maybe it was that time a hunter came in with his mangled dog, just after I had earned my license and started practicing alone.
He had been shooting rabbits and accidentally blasted a gaping wound in the leg of his own spaniel dog. He stood casual as can be, yammering away as I tried to stop the bleeding. He said that the dog would be fine, he was sure. Then he told me a story that I never forgot. A hunting story: that the predator can always tell when the prey has given up. Even before the prey itself knows, the predator can see something, see the way the skin ripples over the prey's bones as it runs, a change in the eyes, a sort of attitude in the skin, in the smell of the body. It's a small, almost invisible change, but it's still a tacit agreement, a secret communication that the prey unofficially submits to being taken by the predator.
I curled my hand round the flame and let my mind go dark.
Being a vet is ugly work. I don't mind the blood and the bones and the torn skin. What sickens me most is the violence - the human violence. The people who would deliberately harm another creature, or the people who'd bring in their lifelong pet and put her down because they didn't think she was worth the $400 to save. The animals are fine. It's the humans that I couldn't handle.
In any case, every morning here, right before I start work, I put on my name-embroidered overalls and I step into this quiet, dark cupboard, and I light a match, and I pray that I'm strong enough to deal with whatever lays ahead. By the time 5pm rolls around, I'm often broken. Fed up. Tired. But this little cupboard spell keeps me alive through it all. I can stare into the mangy, hollow eyes of an abused cat and remember that little flicker of flame in the darkness, and I can keep going. Whatever that little twitch in the prey animal's skin is, that look in the eye, that smell... well, I refuse to do that. I'm not ready to be anyone's prey yet.
I blew out the flame and threw open the door, the burnt match odor dissipating quickly. Almost instantly, one of the nurses blustered in and told me there was an emergency, a mix breed dog had been pulled from a fight and was now thrashing around in the waiting room, crushed, bloody leg dangling behind him.
All five of us in the surgery flew into the waiting room and tried to restrain a large brown lab mix, his hackles high and lips pulled back into a frothy snarl. The owner stood to the side, hysterical, unable to pull her eyes away from the lashings of fresh blood thrown all over the linoleum.
The receptionist had ushered everyone else out, and I raced back into the surgery and snatched a vial of alprazolam and a syringe. The assistants held back the snarling animal while I reached for his neck and jabbed the tranquilizer in as precisely as I could. Trails of blood following us, the dog still thrashing wildly, we managed to usher him into the surgery and hoist him up onto the table where I could examine his leg. He was a strong one.
With a flash of irritation, I eyed the bulbous blue sack bobbing between his legs. People didn't fix their dogs and then they were surprised when they became aggressive?
One of the assistants held the snapping dog firm round his neck and the rest of him wriggled and resisted, his claws scratching the metal table and leaving welts on the nurses' arms.
"What about the other dog?" I asked, trying to get a clear look at the leg, bloody but still kicking back in anger.
"Killed," said one of the assistants, and shot me a loaded look.
I frowned. The leg was hideously damaged but until the dog stopped fighting me, I couldn't get a clear look - it was all just blood-matted fur and gristle. Grasping at the knee, I pulled slightly to get a better look at the shinbone and before I knew it, the nails scratched one long line on the table and all at once the assistant lurched forward and screamed, "oh shit!"
I lifted my head to see the assistant lose his grip on the neck and immediately the pink, ribbed inside of the dog's mouth came snapping towards me. I ducked out of the way but he quickly sunk wet, angry teeth right into the stretched sinew of my neck. I screamed out loud. The assistants yanked him off quickly and thunked him back down onto the table, where he whimpered and thrashed, the tranquilizer finally setting in.
My hand was on my neck now, and my head whirred with pain and shock. I looked to see the dog finally submitting, lying flat on the surgery table, panting hard under three sets of panicked hands pinning him down. Out the corner of his eye he watched me as I staggered back, my neck ringing with pain.
"He's drawn blood, come over here quick," said one of the nurses, and she was soon fussing with the slobbery patch on my neck, unwrapping swabs and furiously disinfecting the area.
But the pain felt strange on my skin. I felt ...exuberant.
I stared into that animal's eyes and he stared straight back into mine. My head swum and swirled with panic, but somehow there was one bright, sharp spot in my awareness, just ahead of my eyes. I saw it clearly: I was alive. As alive and as much an animal as that slathering dog in front of me. And I wasn't fucking scared.
In fact, as I stood there, heart banging like a drum, the memory of him came to me all at once.
Zack.
I saw his hard, angry fists raining down onto Alex's body. I saw those same hands close around my own body. I saw the damp, black wires beneath his navel, and the veins in his immense cock, and felt the throb it had left deep inside my body, and all at once I laughed, from the sheer thrill of it, from the pain, from I don't know what. But I laughed.
"It doesn't hurt!" I told the fretting nurse, and kept staring into the dog's eyes as the consciousness seeped out of them and he closed his lids. "I'm fine, I'm fine!"
And I was more than fine. I felt amazing. I could never have told the others in the room that morning, but something strange had happened to me. Something dark had come over me. Being bitten in the neck by an angry dog shouldn't feel like this, should it? Why had I thought of Zack, all over me, and in me, and why had I felt hot and crazy and angry and more alive than I ever had? And what's more, what was this delicious buzzing between my legs?
I tried to focus.
The dog. His eyes rolled back in his head and his tongue lolled out his mouth. Now, I could go in and do some damage control. Most of the assistants and nurses cleared out and I got to work on the brown lab. I told myself to pay attention. I would see Zack later on that evening. There'd be time enough to figure out what the hell was going on with me. But for now, the beast was sleeping and while he did, I'd need to mend his broken leg.


* * *


I poured out a stream of yellow liquid into his cup and set my teapot back on the table. I thought it was funny, that an ex-con's favorite tea was chamomile, but I didn't say so for fear of hurting his feelings.
As I lifted my own cup to my lips, I noticed that I was still shaking. Still trembling from the adrenaline put there this morning by the ferocious brown lab.
He sat opposite on me on the sofa. Yes, the sofa, and he watched me warmly, all easy smiles and lightly tanned skin that looked like burnished metal against his casual white shirt.
"You know, you sure are getting picked on a lot these days," he laughed, and held the teacup in his wide hands, gesturing to my neck.
I laughed back.
It was true. With my still-bruised cheekbone and my newest addition of two vampire-like puncture wounds right on the jugular, I really was a sight to behold.
"Don't worry," he said, "you make looking beat up seem so pretty and glamorous."
I giggled. He might be on to something. I had been on fire all day. Triumphant over my tussle with the beast, two fresh trophy wounds to show for my trouble and now, the thing I had been looking forward to all day: Zack. I wouldn't be surprised if I was glowing.
Our recent tryst on this very sofa seemed like a dim memory. Something reset and I felt like I had to start all over, gathering up the nerve to touch him again, to kiss him again. We hadn't spoken much about our last meeting, but my body remembered everything. Every last pulsing, sticky, delicious detail. I was still aching somewhere deep inside where he had been, and the thought both scared and thrilled me.
Just remembering his naughty smile and the force he used to pull apart my legs... something about finding little traces of him on me drove me wild at the most inappropriate times. I discovered a handprint on my ass while showering and was ten minutes late for work. I saw the letters "ZAK" on a license plate and instantly became wet. And when I sat a certain way, and squeezed my legs just so, and thought of just the right naughty thought, I could feel him. All I could think about all that day was his hard body, his sweet smile ...and his fat, ruthless cock.
In fact, I was even having trouble just looking him in the eye at that moment.
"Glamorous? Well I wouldn't call it glamorous," I said, losing myself a little in his gaze and then tearing my eyes away again.
"Well, you're beautiful, whatever happens," he said, and I noticed his voice crack on the word 'beautiful'.
We sat in silence drinking for a moment. The calm before a storm. He flicked his eyes up to glance at me and then I knew all at once: it was going to happen.
Again.
I blushed and felt my pussy twitch deliciously. Half the fun now, I guess, was waiting it out. A game to see who could hold out the longest.
"More tea?" he asked, and I wanted to make a joke about how funny I thought it was for him to say that, but decided against it.
"No thanks, I'm good. There is something else I want though." My heartbeat was like a wild animal caged in my ribs.
"Oh? What's that?" He put his cup down.
"Could I possibly get another kiss?" I said, and tilted my head coyly to the side.
He inhaled deeply and looked me over with a pleased expression.
God he was handsome. A good, strong face. A serious jaw. Full, firm lips and clear eyes. But dear Lord was there something unbearably naughty creeping all over that expression of his. He smiled and spoke in a low mumble.
"I'd be afraid to kiss you, quite frankly. I wouldn't want to give you another injury..." he said, and lifted delicate fingertips to graze against my bruised skin.
The effect was electric.
I exhaled and tried to keep eye contact.
"Oh, I'm not scared of you," I said, a little smile fluttering on my lips.
"You're not? Maybe you should be. I can be very rough, you know."
The jolt of pleasure that zapped through me was so intense I felt like I would pass out. I would have done anything for him to just reach over and kiss me already.
"You? Rough?" I giggled.
He pretended to be insulted with a playful jump of his eyebrows.
"Ma'am, don't I remember you saying what a dangerous convict I was? What a bad guy? In fact a man so dangerous that they..." All of a sudden, he leaned in so close I could almost taste the words from his lips. "...so dangerous that they had to lock him up away from society. Surely you must be just a little scared..." he said, putting on his best dramatic voice.
I was already soaking wet.
He wasn't a bad man. But he was a man. The more I thought about this answer he had given, the more I understood it. I was scared. I was very scared. But I didn't know how to explain all the other things I felt. The strange feeling that pulsed through me as I stared into the animal eyes of the rabid lab. The thrill I felt as his scratch marks stung on my arm. My heart beating when I thought certain unthinkable things about Zack... I didn't know how to say: yes I'm scared. But I like it.
I smiled, my lips hovering just an inch from his.
"Well, when you put it that way, maybe I am just a little scared," I said and leaned forward slightly to touch the tips of my lips to his. Not to kiss him, but just to touch.
Instantly, his strong hands folded round my neck and pulled me in deeper, and I surrendered into a deep, full, passionate kiss. It was an uncompromising, penetrating kiss, one that took all of me, and I so I gave myself up to it, all of myself, and opened my lips to his.
Soon his warm body was pressed close to mine, where I hadn't even realized how much I had missed it. It was as though I had been holding on, holding my breath and waiting for him, and now that his strong arms were folding around me again, I could just exhale and let all of that go.
"I've wrestled one savage beast today, I think I can handle another," I said teasingly, and with this came a low growl from deep inside his chest as he pounced on me. I squealed with delight as he jumped on top of me and pinned me down. I could already feel his solid cock jamming into my belly, even through his thick trousers.
Were we crazy? Was this all too fast? My heart was pumping at fever pitch. There is good in this world, and there is bad. But maybe there's something else, too. A third thing: good-bad.
My throat went dry and I considered opening my mouth, coming up for air between each deep, animalistic kiss, and telling him I was scared, and saying please don't hurt me. I thought about begging him to slow down. That the speed with which he was tearing my clothing off was scary, that it was too much, he was too much, too big, too rough for me, that I wasn't ready yet. I thought of begging him to be gentle, to go slow. To be good. But then I realized that if I asked him to stop... he would.
As his hungry, frenzied lips travelled down over my neck and breasts, I threw my head back and bit down on my lips, a dark understanding brewing at the back of my mind.
I didn't want him to stop.
Chapter 12 - Zack
After the last stitch of clothing was gone between us, my eyes hazed over and I felt a kind of delicious rage pumping through me. Maybe it was the smell of her vulnerability. Maybe it was something about the way she looked at me - just right, just that split second flicker in her pale eyes that told me ...yes.
It was only the second time we had slept together, but it was already eerie how swiftly she could bring this lusty rage over me, how I could be sipping tea one moment and the next want to fuck her senseless, all because of the soft, slight way she held the words in her mouth when she said I'm not scared.
But I sure as hell was scared.
Fucking petrified.
It was something new to me: I was genuinely afraid of hurting her. She was small and soft and yielding. Naïve of the violence that a human body can really be capable of; she was untrained, innocent, a sitting duck with soft eyes that made me feel weird things in the pit of my stomach.
In truth, I was more afraid of what she was doing to me.
I kissed her hard and her little strawberry tongue came fiercely back at me. I slid eager hands down her smooth body.
There was just so much to hold and squeeze I wished I had more hands than two - her full breasts with their puffy pink nipples, the little swell of creamy flesh under her belly button, her shapely bones underneath the velvet skin on each of her hips, like she was living cello.
I slid two thumbs down between that sweet cleft and was nearly delirious to find her secret inner thighs already slick. I kissed her there. I looked up to see her smiling down at me with something like intoxication on her sweet face. I was rock hard. I knew her so well ...but did I? Were we being crazy, going so fast?
"Turn around," I said, surprising myself.
Her little eyes opened wider, and she froze, looking down at me between her legs. I raised one hand to her pretty neck and caressed the little red holes there. Around each was a small shadow of black bruising. She raised her chin and twisted her neck as I did so, like a cat. Soon, she was on her knees in front of me, her ass waggling at me, her forearms flat on the floor.
Some sick part of me imagined her ex bursting in the room at just this moment, right in time to see just exactly what I was about to do to his woman.
I shook my head to clear it, then spread eager hands over her wide hips, gently pulling her ass cheeks apart. She tossed her head to the side, her waterfall of brown hair flowing down from her head like it had a magical life of its own. I slid my hands up to greet her breasts and then back down again. When I dipped the greedy tip of my cock into that sweet little well between her legs, she instantly swiveled her hips back towards me, groaning into her curtain of hair. It was a miracle how wet she became. How ready she was.
I slid in smoothly and slowly, shuddering at how amazing it felt to be in her again, at how she seemed to melt and swell all around me as I sunk deeper and deeper in.
"You're fucking beautiful," I mumbled under my breath and again came those sweet hips back towards me.
One hand went to her swollen little clit and she began to stroke herself in tight, urgent circles. The sight of this alone drove me wild. When I heard an overwhelmed little squeak from somewhere behind the curtain of hair, I couldn't hold back anymore; drawing back my hips I slammed into her, hard, giving her the full length of my cock and driving deep to find that soaking place inside that she had shown me just a few days before.
I wanted more, I wanted all of her, and as I felt her twinge and clench around me, something inside me took over and I fucked her again, bringing all the strength I could muster down into that little quivering slit, watching her body swell and open and submit to another thrust, and then another, and another.
Her little fingers moved furiously over her clit as I pounded again and again into her, each blow from my hips sending fleshy ripples through hers. The delicious rage pumped through me like it was boiling in my blood. Next to my brown and scribbled-on body, hers seemed as white and clean as an angel's.
I gripped hard on her hips, stopping myself from going further, knowing I shouldn't hurt her.
All at once she got up off her elbows and leaned back onto me, her shapely back pressing against me and her long hair snaking over us both. I caught sight of the little wounds on her neck and felt something strange stirring in me. Waves of pleasure were washing over me, and with each stroking thrust she eased me closer to the edge, closer to bursting and filling her with my cum.
Inside she was so silky, so sweet and so astonishingly warm, I was soon fucking her harder than I thought she could handle, harder than I should, lifting both knees off the ground so I could sink deeper into her poor little cunt with every lunge. I wrapped my arms round her to steady her against my own ruthless cock, and through little parted lips she groaned, and a single bead of sweat ran down her temple.
"Zack," she said, flopping forward and steadying her hands on the ground in front of her again. "Oh my God, Zack..."
Her voice was shaky and near-hysterical.
I fucking loved it.
A tortured little mumble escaped from her throat and then she was silent, both her hands desperately clutching the carpet underfoot, her body tensing right up. I could feel she was close to coming.
I stroked a long hand up and then down her spine to soothe her.
"Shhhh," I said as I continued to fuck her, deep and quick and hard. Her breasts shook underneath her. I could hear she had stopped breathing. I felt her tight little pussy swell and squeeze around me, and I knew she would come soon.
"Zack!" she mumbled, and I fucked harder. "Oh God, Zack... right there!"
All at once, she was thrusting her own hips back into me, her hungry body swallowing me up, my balls slapping against her with each violent thrust.
"I'm going to--"
The words got stuck in her throat. I was so engorged inside her I felt I'd never be able to pull free. She was so wet I could hear it.
"Zack, I'm...
"Fucking come for me," I growled.
I grabbed her hips and sent one final, brutal fuck straight into the juicy core of her, as hard and as deep as I could reach. Her spine curled and bucked and her entire body tightened around me, all of a sudden, wracked with the brutal force of her orgasm beating through her.
She jerked forward, and to my amazement, a giant gush of liquid spurted from her and splashed everywhere, down over my cock, and onto both of our thighs. She let out a long, guttural cry and then whimpered as her body clenched again and a second, smaller gush followed, dousing us again. I looked down to see my wet cock bouncing at the entrance of her pulsating, juicy body. Sweet fuck, it was the eye of God himself winking back at me.
Without thinking, I grabbed her shuddering frame, the last dribbles of her orgasms still pumping through her, and shoved my cock straight back in again. She was slick and tight and hot enough inside it nearly took my breath away. Fired up to see her so utterly dissolved in her own pleasure, I only needed a few thrusts to bring myself right to the edge, and when I tumbled over myself, her pussy clenched hard around me, milking every last drop out of me. I cried out and collapsed onto her sweat-soaked back, my own orgasm beating hard through my body, in wave after wave of ecstasy.
Still jammed in her, head still spinning, I linked my arms round her waist and planted dazed and dizzy kisses along her back and neck. She merely hung her head down low, the roots of her long hair wet and dark from sweat, the ends tangled and wild. It must have been a full minute before her body stopped heaving under mine, and the little ripples and twitches inside her body stopped and her breathing slowed and came back to normal.
I peeled myself off of her and knelt back on my haunches.
I was speechless.
She turned to look at me - the most beautiful I'd ever seen her, with buttery eyes and wild damp hair flowing everywhere and her lower lip wet and parted - and burst out laughing. She looked down at the wet patch on the floor. Then up at me, then to my still hard dick.
"I think you... I think you broke me," she laughed, and I couldn't help but laugh as well.
"I've never ...do you ...have you done that before?" I said. I had never seen a woman orgasm so hard before in my life. She looked as puzzled as I did.
"I don't know," she said. "I can barely even remember who I am right now!" and giggled so sweetly I couldn't help but lean forward and embrace her.
"Didn't I tell you I could be rough?" I said in my best stud voice. I felt her breasts jiggle in my arms as she laughed.
"Oh well, I've learned my lesson now, I'll never doubt you again," she said and we both collapsed together laughing, lying side by side, a little giddy.
I stared up at the ceiling, waiting for my heartbeat to calm down. At the edge of my vision I saw a cat slink along a coffee table and then trotting off out of sight. The ceiling was in rough shape, and needed some work. I hated to think of her getting up there to change dusty light bulbs.
"Zack?"
"Yeah?"
"Will you stay the night?"
"OK."
Chapter 13 - Madeleine
Some animals are easy. They take quickly to humans and don't fuss much and will tilt their heads to let you push the needle into the flesh of their necks, knowing somewhere in their quiet animal minds that it will help them somehow.
Some animals are difficult. They kick and scream and bite and hiss, and just when you think you've won them over, they scratch up your skin and slip your grasp, making you chase them all over again.
Maisy was one of the easy ones.
That's partly why it was her I scooped up one sunny Saturday morning to give to Zack when he asked to help with my crazy menagerie. Maisy was a frail white and brown kitten, all heartbeat and bones and eyes, but she melted easily into anyone's grasp, purring for whoever picked her up and dutifully eating whatever you gave her as though she didn't know the difference between medicine and food.
"Like this?" he asked me.
Something twanged in my heart to see his big, strong hands cupped lightly around little Maisy, and they both stared back at me with wide eyes.
"Am I holding her right?" he said again. To his credit, Maisy did give the impression that she'd disappear into a puff of smoke if you held her too hard.
"What do you think, Maisy?" I said and leaned forward, placing my ear next to her whiskered face. "Yup, purring like a diesel engine, I think she's happy," I said. He beamed and stroked the pad of his thumb against her little head, and her eyes narrowed in pleasure.
"Ready to give her the medicine?"
"Yeah, let's do it! Maisy says she wants some of the good stuff, please," he said laughing, and lifting her to his own ear.
These days, Zack took to hanging around my house shirtless. At first I didn't know what to make of it but now, seeing all six-foot of him standing in my kitchen with a tiny kitten pressed to his bare chest, I didn't seem to mind so much.
I opened a cupboard and pulled out her formula, took a large plastic syringe from the drawer and then sucked up the correct dosage for her. She had been abandoned as a kitten and this medicine would go some way to replacing the nourishment she would have gotten from her mother. I handed the syringe to him and he took it expertly in his other hand, all of Maisy curled up cutely in his other hand, like a lint ball that had suddenly sprouted eyes.
"Just gently put the end in her mouth," I instructed him. "Not there, in the corner of her mouth, and squeeze very gently and very slowly. Just like that! She'll lap it up."
Little Maisy, sweetheart that she was, tilted back her head and obediently swallowed her medicine, her little muzzle peeling back off her tiny canine fangs.
With supreme focus, Zack depressed the syringe and sent the liquid slowly into her mouth, and all at once her little throat began to pulse up and down as she swallowed. He flashed his gaze up at me and then quickly back down to the task at hand.
"She's doing it! She's eating it up," he said with glee. If he weren't so engrossed with his kitten, I would have pounced on him with how hot he looked at that moment.
Once the syringe was emptied, he set it carefully aside and then held her up at eye height to examine her, goofy grin all over his face. You can tell a lot about a man by the way he treats things that are smaller and weaker than him. And the way he was smiling and cooing at sweet Maisy turned my legs to jelly. With the end of his pinky finger he wiped her tiny cat mouth and then - God help me - then he gave her a dainty kiss right on her little snout. Completely full of food and with a face stuck in a permanent worried face, Maisy bobbed a little in his hand and mewed, once. He howled with laughter and put her down, and we both watched her scampering off, her little winder wound up for the next few hours at least.
He clapped his hands and looked up at me with twinkles in his eyes.
"So, what's next? Am I ready to start birthing baby cows yet?" he asked and came over to wrap his arms round my waist.
"Not just yet!" I laughed, and leaned in for a kiss. "Besides, I'm sure I can put you to better use with something else..." I said, and tried to catch his eye.
"Oh?"
He hovered his gorgeous full lips above mine and his teasing breath lingered there for a moment, with that naughty smile I was beginning to know and love.
"Yes, if you want to make yourself useful, maybe you can stop talking for a second and kiss me instead."
"Useful? Yes, ma'am..." he growled and closed his warm, delicious lips around mine for a long, lazy kiss. I staggered a little as the full weight of his body pressed against mine, and soon found my back pressed flat against the refrigerator. With hungry kisses, his tongue explored my mouth, my lips, my neck...
I was still zinging inside from our recent morning romp, my hair knotted up into a shaggy pile on top of my head, wearing his shirt and still pink in the face from all the things he had done to me before it was even 7 o'clock. I thumped my head back against the fridge and let him kiss me, and my poor body responded instantly, wet within seconds at the touch of his lips, opening up to him like I hadn't already gone twelve rounds in the ring with that magnificent, merciless cock of his, just a few hours ago.
I liked what he did to me. When I was with him, I was no pushover. I bit him back. I bucked and moaned and thrashed and made as much noise as I damn well pleased. I made a mess. A big mess. And he let me.
Soon he was planting a trail of hot kisses down my collarbones and then he hoisted the shirt up and over my head, revealing my breasts, still warm with sex-smell and the cotton of his sweatshirt. He buried his head in my cleavage and I smiled down at him, hands resting on his head. Beatific. Like Our Lady of the Glorious Tits, smiling sweetly down at one of her worshippers.
"Spread your legs for me," he mumbled, already nestling his way into that tender V between my legs.
I obeyed.
He was kneeling down in front of me now, and I could make out the strong muscles in his haunches as he positioned himself to kiss me. Not quite what I imagined when I suggested we head to the kitchen for something to eat, but again, I'd take it.
I sighed loudly and let my head fall to the side.
How could this man, this man who was tenderly parting my pussy lips and sending the sweetest, most careful tongue onto my swollen clit, this man who was dabbing the curious tips of his finger against me, this man who knew how to melt my body inside with just a look... how could this man have ever hurt anyone? I would ask him about his past. I couldn't avoid it forever. But later...
I wasn't sure if I trusted him ... or just wanted to trust him. All I knew was that my doubts and fears never lasted long. We were never more than a few hours away from some sizzling glance, some sweet, dirty whispers, some electrifying touch or a full out session in bed that left my head whirling and my body crackling like it had been hit by lightning.
I would ask him. I had to. But I would do it later. Right now all I could focus on was the delightful torment of his tongue flicking over that desperate ache, and the juice pouring out of me as he toyed expertly with that little nub, kissing and licking me to some sweet, quivering point.
I grasped at his wild, coily blonde hair and tried to pull him deeper, but he pulled back a little and looked up at me with a wicked smile.
"Now, Maddy, I'll drown and die if you try pull another stunt like you did this morning," he said in a graveled voice, then went back to work. A moan escaped my lips and I felt the cool metal of the fridge behind me against the goosebumps on my back.
"If you keep doing that, well, I can't promise anything," I breathed, and it was true. Still raw and turned on from this morning, I didn't need much to get me right back to that sweet, sweet point of no return.
"Doing what my dear?" he asked, as though he were speaking directly to the slippery folds of my hopelessly turned on body. "This?" As he spoke, he licked the full, firm tip of his tongue once, all the way up against the length of my shuddering pussy, just exactly in the way he had recently learnt. A few more of those licks and I'd be a wild, quivering mess in no time.
"Yes, that," I said and playfully slapped his bare shoulder.
"Yes ma'am."
God I loved the way he said that, and I looked down to see his strong pecs and shoulders working as he placed his hands on my hips and pulled me deeper down onto him. My toes were shaking, barefoot on the kitchen floor. My loose bun was beginning to come undone.
"I won't do this again," he said, and with the word "this" he stroked his long tongue again all the way up, sending my body jerking a little.
"Naughty. I said don't do that..." I muttered, my breath coming in gasps now as I tried to steady myself against the swelling waves of pleasure pulsing over me.
"What? I already told that you that I won't do this..."  A third stroke came over my swollen clit, and my hips jumped and jerked with the pump of pleasure it sent through me.
"You bastard," I said, the edges of my hair coming loose now and hanging low over one side of my face.
The first time it happened was on the sofa. The first time we fucked, he has dug his thick, hard cock into me and forced out strange, new sensations, feelings that washed over me and melted me completely. He still liked to tease me about the carpet cleaner we needed to rent to get rid of the enormous mark on the rug the following day. The second time it happened was even more wickedly delicious than the first. He had thrown me down on the bed, hoisted both legs high up and held my ankles in one hand, split my pussy lips open and pounded me so hard I saw stars and squirted violently all over him.
The third time, he was making a game out of 'breaking me'. He knew precisely which buttons to press, and which pulleys and levers to activate to open my floodgates and have me a drooling, bumbling muddle within 15 minutes. Since then, I had lost count of the times we had played this game with one another. He seemed to know exactly what to do to me. And all I knew was that I wanted more and more.
I thrust myself back into the surface of the fridge and tried to still my buzzing mind. But all at once I felt him sink one and then two fingers easily into my hungry little hole, driving them up into me right to the knuckles, so swiftly I couldn't help but yelp with pleasure. But I couldn't go anywhere except down, onto his fingers, and deeper into that delicious ecstasy. I was close now, so close, and I suddenly felt that familiar, watery bliss boiling inside me, threatening to break loose and drench us both.
He momentarily looked up to me and smiled at my sweetly tortured face.
"Tell me what you're thinking," he said.
"What?" I could scarcely contain myself. My knees started to shake.
"Tell me what you're thinking," he said, this time more firmly.
"I'm... I'm thinking of..." I started to say, and felt my face blush hard.
"Don't be shy. Tell me. Fucking tell me," he said again, this time jamming his thick fingers deeper into me, stroking my hot, twitching body towards its inevitable orgasm.
"I..." I squirmed against the fridge, thrashing my head side to side, clutching down hard on his shoulders.
"Say it." His voice was dry and dark and deep and pushed me closer just as surely as his fingers did. My toes curled and clawed at the floor as the room started to spin.
"Say it!"
"I'm going to fucking come! I'm going to fucking come all over your face!" and the last thing I saw was the naked, knotted muscles in his bicep as he pulled my body down, hard, to stop me from bucking and jerking away from him. My eyes slammed closed and something from deep inside me swirled and spun and broke loose, and soon I was coming hard down on his fingers, trying to scream but my voice bubbling out in jagged rasps as I tried to breathe through each wave of a hot, juicy orgasm.
He yanked out his fingers and I exploded, my hips curling up and sending a huge stream of liquid spraying onto his chest and chin. Before my eyelids flittered closed I looked down to see his naughty face, smiling back up at me with a wild expression of astonishment.
He released me. I shuddered and cried out. Then with a long squelch my naked, sweaty back slid down the surface of the fridge door and I crumpled down into a heap on the floor, legs still convulsing. I heard his knees crack as he stood, his tall frame like a monolith over me. He had reached in deep somehow and found one single, glorious thread running all through me, a thread that started at my throat and ended at the little buzzing nub of my clit, and he had somehow pulled, and that thread came all undone, leaving me unseamed, orgasming so hard my stitches had come loose.
Eyes closed, I reached out for him and my hand touched his hard, hairy shins. I opened my eyes to see him standing tall over me, his turn now to look down at me. I smiled; relishing what was coming, and tried to stand up. He easily put his hand on my shoulder and pushed me back down again.
"No, you stay down there," he mumbled, and then pulled down his pants.
Chapter 14 - Zack
Ben flicked his wrist and the fishing line glinted in the sunshine and went plinking into the pond in front of us. It was a fancy move, for a guy who never caught a damn thing.
The late afternoon sun was hazy and golden; a kind of aimless day that made you overlook the fact that time was passing. A man could forget he had a past at all, with the light falling on the water the way it was falling just then.
"It's going to come and bite you in the ass is all I'm saying," he said, chewing his lower lip.
Man did I hate fishing. To make things worse he had already told me that same line three times already.
"I know ...but I feel like I missed my chance already, you know?
"At some point, buddy, it's just lying. You're just straight up lying to her."
I hated it when he had a point. It was really inconvenient that a bonehead like my brother was right so often.
"She's asked me why I went to prison, so I've never told her. I didn't think much would come of the whole thing anyway, to be honest. I thought she'd run screaming on the first date. I didn't expect us to hit it off so well."
"It's gonna bite you in the ass, Zack. You need to tell her."
"I wasn't sure what we were even doing, you know? So I never went into detail. I'm not going to spill this big sob story to a woman I just met, you know? A woman I barely knew."
"But you know her now."
"I know. But that means it's even harder to tell her."
Ben chuckled under his breath. Not being completely honest with Maddy was eating me up inside. But the thought of telling her just how bad my past was felt even worse somehow.
"You two both deserve each other, I swear," he said. "She's the monkey who doesn't see, and you're the monkey who doesn't tell. You're honestly telling me you've never even looked Maggie up? Asked around about where she got to and what she's doing?"
I shook my head.
If daggers could kill, Maggie would be a deadly assassin. She had let me know in no uncertain terms that she wanted me out of her life.
"I spent two years trying to forget about her, why would I go looking for her now? What would be the point?"
"Because maybe she'll come looking for you?"
I watched my own line disappearing into the still water and frowned.
"How's ma?" he said casually, realizing my patience was wearing thin.
"Ah, you know. Getting old."
"I know, right?"
"She's so forgetful these days. She used to be so sharp."
"Tell me about it."
"She's taking care of that little kitten I got her."
"Oh yeah? The one Maggie got her?"
"Dude. It's Maddy."
"Fuck, I'm sorry," he said and caught my eye over the fishing line.
"Forget about it."
"Hey, Zack?"
"What?"
"You should tell her."
After it got dark we piled all the fishing stuff back into the truck and started to make our way back home.
"Hey, how's work man?" he said, and I realized that we probably hadn't spoken for the last half hour at least.
"Yeah, I'm looking into some new things, kind of a lot of prospects but none of them look appealing you know?"
"Yep."
"This airport gig is killing me, though, no doubt about it. It's enough to make me get itchy feet again, you know?"
He turned to look at me, briefly taking his eyes off the road.
"Don't even joke, Zack."
I didn't respond.
"Something else will come up. Make friends for fuck's sake. Date around a bit."
"Well, I already told you, I'm seeing Maddy."
"Yeah but... just in case that doesn't work out, you know? Nothing wrong with getting out there, keeping your options open, you know?"
I looked at him.
"You think I'm going to hurt her or something," I said. He didn't turn his head to look at me again.
"Zack, what if I'm afraid that she's going to hurt you?"
Chapter 15 - Madeleine
I watched him squeeze the blood out of his steak with the tip of his knife.
I thought about how much that stupid steak had cost. About how someone like Alex couldn't really afford it. Not like I could either, but whatever, it was his 'treat' and maybe I'd got some satisfaction watching him pay for it all, and try to apologize. Again. True, he had never put this much effort in before, but this dinner had all the familiar flavors of the I-swear-this-is-the-last-time type apology that Alex was so skilled at. Right down to me almost considering whether I should just go easy on him. Almost.
"What's so different about this course and the one you did the time before?" I said.
He was dressed up nicer than I think I had ever seen him. Dark blue jacket with a collared shirt, his hair all combed back. He always did clean up nice.
"Well, this course isn't about anger management, it's about understanding anger. You know, getting to the root of why you get angry and what to do about it," he said, leaning in close like he had a secret to tell me. Or like he wanted to rope me in on a pyramid scheme. I didn't lean in myself.
"Well, that sounds great. I hope it works out for this time," I said coldly, and looked down at my own steak. Even on that expensive china and with that ridiculous price tag, it was obvious that it just steak. Just meat. And it wasn't even that good a steak, either. I pushed it around my plate.
"Oh, it will work this time," he said. "I just want your friendship for now. You can take as long as you need, I understand. But I mean it Maddy, I'm making important changes. Things are improving for me."
Since we had sat down here in this restaurant, his little speech had been suspiciously free of actual apologies. More like all the reasons why I should forget he had ever hit me, forget that he had barged into my house and got into a fight with ...well, not my boyfriend, but with Zack. Whatever he was.
"Well that's great. You certainly do have a lot of improving to do..." I said, and pushed my knife and fork together. I wasn't even hungry.
He smiled a tight smile at me and shrugged.
"I get that you're angry," he said.
"I'm angry?"
"I know. I deserve you being mad at me. I know. You have every right to hate my guts right now."
"Oh I do? How kind of you to tell me all the things I have a right to do."
His lips twisted a little.
"Can you just meet me halfway, Maddy? Can you just acknowledge that I'm trying to apologize here?"
I scoffed and pushed my plate away.
"Oh, is that what you're trying to do? Apologize? I hadn't noticed," I said. It was out of character for me, to be so bitchy. But all the things that were in character for me had never worked out for me, so why the hell not?
His lips twisted a little more.
"Maddy, I'm sorry. I'm sorry for what happened. I don't know how many times I have to apologize."
"You can apologize as much as you want."
"And then?"
"And then what?"
"Do you... forgive me? Can you at least understand where I'm coming from? Christ, Maddy, you know what I'm asking you," he blurted.
The restaurant had those weird little pretend tea lights on the table, the ones that are just an LED light in a candle-shaped piece of plastic. They flicker quite convincingly, but when your hand goes over them, you realize they're cold and fake. No flame there. I had spent the whole day helping others, giving to others, and now here I was with Alex, and, predictably, he wanted something from me too.
"You should want to be a better person whether I forgive you or not," I said. I don't know where that came from, but it was the right thing to say. I wouldn't put it past him to lose his temper in a public place, but I sensed I had a long way to go before he was angry enough to make a scene. And so I was safe. And so I kept talking.
"And just because everyone understands you and sees where you're coming from, it doesn't mean that you didn't do what you did, right?"
The look on his face was stony.
A year or two ago, I would have bought all of this hook, line and sinker. I would have eaten up his story of contrition and redemption, and been more than happy to welcome him back into my life, thrilled, even, that I got to be the special woman that he'd wrestle his demons for, that he loved me, that none of it was his fault anyway.
But today, I could see it for what it was. An expensive restaurant and a nice-looking jacket didn't hide that fact that it was the same old bullshit story as always. He leaned back in his chair and eyed me with something close to exasperation.
"Is it the other guy?" he said at last. I had been waiting for him to mention it. So far, he had said nothing. Pretended that he hadn't had his ass handed to him just a few weeks ago and that Zack was just some inconvenient ghost that would evaporate now that he was sorry enough and promised he'd never, ever be mean again.
I returned his stony gaze.
"Is what the other guy?" I said. I thought about getting dessert, and adding it to the already bulging bill that I knew he couldn't really afford. I hadn't come out here with any intention to be vindictive, but something about the way he was pressing on that steak with his knife made me want to stop being so damn sweet and nice for a change.
"You know. Is he the problem?"
The cheek on this guy.
"The problem is that you're an asshole, and so we broke up," I said. Inwardly I winced a little, my body trained to cringe after saying something like that, used to the fact that a slap would inevitably follow. Instead, he stared at me hard, nostrils flaring.
"We're on a break," he said quietly. "Who is he anyway? Are you... are you seeing him?"
Oh, I was seeing him all right. Seeing his brains out on the regular, and I loved it. I was seeing him so often and so hard that some days it hurt to walk. I smiled inwardly at what would happen if I told him any of this. If I told him that Zack was better in bed, much better, that his cock was like a magic wand and that it had been teaching my body to do things I never even thought were possible. But it was my secret. One I liked keeping to myself.
"That's not really any of your business."
"Maddy, the guy hit me. I could press charges for assault for what he did."
I said nothing.
"I'm serious Maddy. How would that look, especially for a guy with his history? I could go to the police station right now and I could press charges of assault for what he did."
"And I could press charges of assault for what you did," I spat. I hated the fact that the bruise on my cheek had already faded before he had the chance to actually see what he had done.
"Look, let's not fight, OK? I'm here to apologize, I was wrong, I'm sorry. OK?"
"OK," I said.
"OK what?"
I wanted to hit him myself. He was pathetic.
"OK. I'm glad you're on the road to healing or whatever, and I sincerely hope you get your shit together, and OK, your plan sounds great. So what? What do you want from me?"
I loved the fact that he couldn't yell in the restaurant, or reach over and pinch my arm to get me to shut up.
"I love you, Maddy," he said, and I nearly laughed out loud at the way he said it. Not as a vulnerable, sweet admission. Not as a confession. Not as a platitude. But something like a weapon.
How many bruises had I already gathered because he loved me so much? How many stitches? How many nights had I cried away because of his stupid love? I knew what his love meant, and I didn't want it anymore.
"Ok, but we're not together anymore, Alex. Nothing is going to change that." That really was the end of it. I was getting the feeling that this dinner needed to be over sooner rather than later. Why had I even come? A moment of stupid weakness. Zack didn't know, and all of a sudden that felt like a bad mistake to have made. Alex knew how to make me crazy. But he hadn't won this time. I had won. The angry look on his face told me that I had won, and he hadn't expected it at all.
"So it is him then. You know, you could have just said so. Here I am making an ass of myself trying to win you back when you've already decided you're going to go with some meathead..." he smirked dangerously and pushed his own plate away. Ah. This was the Alex I knew.
"Don't call him that..."
"Where you cheating on me? Huh? How long have you been seeing this idiot for?"
"Alex, we've been broken up for months, I've never cheated on you, please, don't raise your voice."
"Who even is this guy?" he said, his voice louder than ever. The people at the next table looked over at us.
"Alex, calm down. Nobody cheated on anybody."
This had been a bad idea, I could see it clearly now. Slowly, I was learning to deal with Alex, but one lesson I still hadn't learned: there was no engaging with him at all. No apologies. No new leaves. Just the same old story again and again and again. The same ugly old leaf turning over and over forever.
"Where did you meet him? At work or something? You never go anywhere so where did you meet him. Huh?"
I was starting to get angry myself. I tried to breathe. Tried to remember that he was sick. That I didn't have to listen to what he said. I tried to remember the little light in the dark.
"Answer me when I fucking speak to you," he hissed, and all at once the façade was off and the Alex I knew and hated was there, in full force, only a restaurant table away from me.
I said nothing.
"Answer me," he said, voice dripping with threat as he leaned in again, so close he looked as though he wanted to eat me.
"Answer me!"
"OK, fine! I fucking met him online, OK? On a prison dating site. He's big and tattooed and scary looking and maybe he's a bad idea but I don't care, because he makes me feel amazing."
He sat back in his seat and looked genuinely shocked.
"Maddy, what are you saying?"
I stared at his face. He was speechless.
"I think I should go now," I said, and reached down to pick up my handbag.
A flash of panic flickered over his face.
"Go? Where are you going? We haven't finished our dinner yet."
I felt sincerely sorry for him.
"And I'm not your girlfriend," I said. I felt afraid of him. I wanted to leave.
"What did he do? Is he a murderer or something? What if he hurts you?"
I only had to smirk at him for him to see the irony in what he had said.
"Tell me, Maddy. At least tell me what he did."
"I don't know what he did. And I don't care."
"So you're just going to screw around with some weird guy who's been in prison and you don't even know what he did?"
I pushed back my chair and stood to leave.
"I expected more from you, Maddy. You're being cruel. I can't believe you're being like this," he said, trying a different tack. But I knew all his tacks.
"What happened to me taking as long as I needed? What about wanting to be my friend?"
I pushed the chair back in and left him there with the two steaks and the fake plastic light and the people around our table casting curious glances at us.
I walked out.
I suddenly saw my life through Zack's eyes. When did I become such a weak, battered woman? Why on earth did I think it was a good idea to get dressed up and come out to meet this man, this man who had hurt me so much? What the hell was wrong with me?
Outside in the cool night air, I breathed in deep and felt my head clear. There was no question about it - Alex had to disappear from my life. I was done holding onto him. He was wasting my time. I could have been doing anything I wanted tonight. I could be at home with my animals, or doing something fun or ...I could be curled up in Zack's arms.
The more I walked on, though, the more Zack didn't seem like such a savior either. If I was done tolerating crap from one man, why should I accept it from another? Maybe I did want to know. He was so evasive. Lately, I had tried asking him gently about his prison sentence, but he had only said it would be too difficult for him to say, that the wounds were still fresh. That he wanted to tell me, and he would tell me, but only when the moment was right. Well, why couldn't I decide when the moment was right?
I pulled my coat around me and walked a little faster. I whipped my phone from out my pocket and texted him.

Maddy: Come over tonight. I miss you. We need to talk.

I stuffed the phone back into my pocket and walked on. It was blunt. Forceful even. But the evening air was so invigorating and cold, it all felt right. We did need to talk. And as I walked on, alone with my thoughts, I started to realize that I wasn't even that scared of the dark anymore.
Chapter 16 - Zack
"When I returned home from deployment, I was in rough shape," I said. "It was hard for me to ask for help, and back then I didn't even know much about PTSD. I thought that I was just stressed; just getting back into the swing of things, and that it wasn't so bad. But I was so jumpy. So paranoid, too."
I looked at my face in the mirror. Was that the face of someone you'd trust? Would a sweet girl like Maddy believe any of it? I could go back further, I guess. I could tell her about dad and ma and why I joined the military at all. Or further back still, when I was five years old and Ben and I were still good friends and... well, none of that was important now.
I cleared my throat and looked square into the mirror again. If I had any hope of keeping this miraculous girl in my life, it would only be because I could look her in the eye and tell her the truth.
"My ex-girlfriend and I had a very difficult relationship. She waited for me but when I came back things were different between us. We fought more. We were both really angry people."
I stopped here, distracted by the dripping bathroom tap and the thought that there was no elegant way to say what I needed to say. I straightened my shoulders and tried to keep my voice clear.
"I wanted to leave again, and she didn't want me to. We fought so much. Eventually, I snapped at her one evening. She came up behind me and I don't know, I just snapped. I hit her, but only by accident. Like I said, I didn't even understand about PTSD back then. In my mind, it wasn't really her that I hit. I just ...acted from instinct. She wasn't hurt badly, not at all. She was just shocked. She cried and cried ...oh God it freaks me out just to think about the way that she cried that night. I tried to say sorry but it was no use. She was so afraid of me. It killed me. She wouldn't even let me touch her."
I looked at my reflection.
Was that the whole truth and nothing but the truth, Zack? Sometimes, I wasn't even sure anymore.
"I felt so bad. She was angry about so many things, but I guess that became the thing she held onto. I told her we needed to break up, that I wanted to go abroad again, get some air. She didn't want that either. Long story short, she reported me to the police. She ...she took photos of the bruise. It looked so much worse than it was. She told everyone. I was convicted of domestic violence. I didn't fight it. I could see how just fighting it was causing everyone so much pain, so I just went with it... I mean, I did hit her, right? It was messed up. I was kind of glad to go to prison, just to get away from everything."
I looked back at myself, trying to see my face as she might see it. I didn't want her to think I was some sleazy asshole trying to explain away something as rotten as hitting a woman. But I also wanted her to understand. I hadn't meant it. I wasn't some saint or anything, but I would never, ever hit a woman. That's just not who I am. But there it was: I had hit her. A fact. And as that horrible purple mark on my ex's skin leered back at me, I guess I decided that maybe I wasn't as good a guy as I thought I was.
I took another deep breath, quickly brushed my teeth and headed out. It was weird of her, to send a text so late at night, but she lived pretty close by and she was right. We did need to chat. I drove in silence, practicing my speech in my head, nervously thumping the steering wheel. To my surprise, she was sitting outside on the steps as I pulled up into the driveway.
I parked, turned off the engine and stepped out, slamming the car door behind me.
"I thought you hated sitting in the dark?" I said playfully. I could see her white teeth smiling back at me from the porch steps.
"Yeah, I do. But tonight's so pretty I decided to sit outside for a bit."
I sat down beside her. I noticed she had pinned back her hair with a clip, and looking again I realized she was wearing makeup and heels. I'd have to ask her about that later.
I pulled a box from inside my jacket, tapped out a cigarette, and lit it in the darkness, the orange glow bobbing between us as we sat in silence.
She said nothing. It was my turn to speak, I suppose. I knew what she wanted to know, and enough was enough already. Either I would tell her and she'd leave, or I wouldn't tell her and ...what? I had to tell her.
"When I got back home from deployment," I started, "I was in a pretty bad place. Back then I didn't even know about PTSD. I thought that I was just stressed, but I was so jumpy and paranoid all the time."
Damn. It sounded forced as hell.
"My ex and I fought a lot because of it. We were both really angry people," I said, and I sensed her stirring in the darkness. She wanted to say something, but she didn't. I had to go on.
"I... she came up behind me one day, just as a joke? I don't know. She scared the daylights out of me, and I turned around and I ... I hit her. Pretty hard, too."
"You actually hit her?" said her voice in the darkness.
"I didn't mean to, though. It was an accident."
"So, you went to jail because you hit your girlfriend by accident?" she said, incredulous.
My eyes stung a little as I realized that no, she wasn't going to smile and believe my stupid, almost unbelievable story and that yes, it looked bad. Really bad.
"Well, she reported me for domestic violence. Ordinarily it wouldn't have been that big of a deal, but the judge wanted to make a lesson out of me, and you know, I had this supervisor who also had it in for me since day one and he got involved, and the whole thing got blown out of proportion, and since I was an idiot and basically owned up to all of it..."
"Wait, but you did hit her?" she said.
My throat felt dry.
"Yes. Yes, I did hit her. But like I said, it was by accident."
The night didn't seem so cool and calm anymore.
"It just seems so weird that you would go to jail for one small mistake like that," she said quietly.
Of course she would say that. Any woman with sense would say that. I knew what she was getting at. She waited in the dark for me to tell her what else I had done. For the secret behind the secret.
But there was nothing. Sure, technically, I wasn't a domestic abuser. I hadn't hit her on purpose. This much was true. But maybe I deserved the punishment anyway, in a roundabout sort of way.
I had done things in Iraq that were forgiving, but perhaps not strictly forgivable. Maybe I failed to stop myself from getting to that point. She needed me to be strong and I wasn't, and so maybe two years was exactly the punishment I deserved. I didn't know how to tell her this, though.
"So, you had PTSD? You hit her because you were stressed?"
I could almost feel the whirring of her brain as she tried to figure it out. Oh, it was more than 'stress'. The things I had seen and done were not 'stress'. When I came back, my whole world fell to pieces around me. Everything I thought I knew, everyone I loved, all of it broke down all around me, and none of it made sense anymore. I stopped being able to speak. Somedays, I felt like the only thing holding me together was the literal clenching of my jaw, or me holding my breath. That if I unballed my fists everything would fall to chaos again.
"Yeah. I was stressed. Really stressed. I didn't mean it. I loved her. I never wanted to hurt her. But ...but I did."
This wasn't at all how my speech was meant to go. That word 'love' felt dangerous on my tongue now, and I watched her in the silence as she thought a moment.
"Well, I believe you," she said.
I hadn't realized that she was unsure whether to believe me or not. "You did what you did, and you never meant to hurt her, so I can't judge you." It felt strange, as though she was just saying the words to convince herself.
"Have you ever hit a woman again? I'm just asking because you ...well, when my ex came around..."
I reached out and touched her thigh. Her jeans felt so cold under my fingertips.
"Maddy, please, I beg you, whatever happens, please know that I would never hurt you."
It's always like this. You start life in the military with crowds of people cheering you on. They can't wait for you to go out there into the muck and fight, and be a fucking man, and protect your country and all that other crap. And when you come back with blood on your hands, those same people are suddenly afraid. You went too close to the thing you were meant to be destroying, and now you scare them. They want you to put on a tie and a nice clean shirt and forget all about the humanity you threw away, for them.
She turned and looked at me, and I could see the distant streetlights reflecting off the wet globes of her eyes. She had that same dizzy, intoxicated look on her face as when she had first come with me, the first time she had let me deep inside her, and trusted me with those raw, unbridled parts of her that we both were shocked to discover. I had laughed and slapped her bare ass at the time. Now, just the thought of it made my stomach turn.
She exhaled loudly and tried to smile.
"Well, that's not so bad. Weird but... at least you're not a murderer!" she said.
My stomach lurched inside.
"I understand. I hope you never ...well, it's not for me to say. Thank you for telling me," she said. She used exactly the same patronizing tone as my stress counsellors did. I hated it. She folded her arms tightly over her beautiful breasts and looked away again.
"Let's go inside," she said. "It's cold out here."


* * *


She put on a pot of chamomile tea and fussed a little with the dogs. I sat on the sofa and idly scratched the ear of Merlin, an ancient collie with a habit of resting her head on people's knees and smiling up at them.
"Are you angry?" I asked, as she busied herself round the kitchen.
"Me? No. Of course not. I understand, this is how these things go. I'm sorry you went through all that."
The words sounded hollow. She appeared in the room with the pot and two cups, and forced another smile. Something ached at the back of my throat.
"Are you like... getting therapy? For the PTSD?"
What she meant was, are you still a threat?
I nodded.
I went once or twice a week and had sessions with some old bat who had never crossed the state line and smelt like stale smoke, but yeah, technically, I was doing all the things I should have been. Just sucking it up and dealing with it.
She sat beside me and we kissed.
This was our usual routine. The sofa was our spot. Since the first time we had fucked, this had become our little nest. The secret, sacred place where she had shown me all sorts of wonderful things, and opened up to me. The only place in this run down house where things were beautiful and magical for a moment, where her body did enchanted things and the reason they did them was me. This sofa was brown and old and scuffed, but it was also an altar where I worshipped her, and where she taught me how to open deeper and deeper doors inside her. And now, she was keeping her distance, sitting all the way over to the side and trying to smile even though I could tell she didn't want to.
We chatted and spoke for a while and then she clinked down her teacup and leaned in closer.
"I'm sorry if I'm a bit weird about what you just told me. You know ...because of the way Alex was. I would just kick myself if I went and found another guy like that, you know?"
It hurt me that I couldn't think of anything to do or say to make her trust me in that moment.
"Yeah, I know."
She came close and kissed me again, and I held her, gently and carefully, my thoughts all over the place. Our clothes came off easily; by now we were well used to one another, to the buttons and zips, the ins and outs. I thought of the bruises I saw on her cheek that day. I ran my hands up and down her beautiful body and kissed her sweetly, but all I could see in my mind was the black and grey of her bruised skin.
Maddy was different. She had been kind and in our hidden moments together on this sofa, she had shown me something: that though I had hurt a woman in the past, I could do other things, too. Good things. When she fluttered her eyes closed and let her head fall back, she showed me that my hands could bring pleasure, too. I didn't want to hurt. I wanted to make her moan again, the same way she had the first time she had squirted all over me.
I scooched over on the sofa closer to her and wrapped my eager body around hers.
Everything would be fine, all could be forgiven, so long as her hair smelt just that sweet and her little tongue moved just like that over my lips. My hand at the base of her neck, I pulled her head back and kissed her throat, and then I found that beautiful dark haze descending over me again, and I began to lose myself in her again, wanting to kiss her deeper and harder. I pawed at her urgently, her body soft under my hands. I yanked her shirt out of the way, eager to get at her sweet, beautiful breasts underneath. The fabric strained and pulled in my hands.
She jumped back and glared at me, both little eyebrows kinked into an expression of concern.
"Hey, easy tiger," she said.
My face burned. I leaned in again, but her hands were blocking her now, and though she kissed me back, her body seemed a little hesitant. Closed somehow.
"You OK?"
"I'm fine!" she said and pulled me in for another kiss.
We did all the same things we had done a dozen times before. I kissed her. I took off her clothes and she took off mine. She kissed me, sucked the tip of my cock, kissed me again. I lay down on top of her and parted her legs. It was all the same. And yet it wasn't.
"Are you sure you're fine?" I asked her again. She seemed irritated at the question.
"Yes, I'm fine, what's wrong? Are you fine?"
She was right there, in my arms, and yet I felt her drifting away from me.
"When I fought with Alex ...it was because ...I guess he reminded me of myself. Do you understand that? I never want to be like that, Maddy."
She smiled.
"I know."
I slid inside her but she was all the wrong kinds of tight. She climbed on top, and again I stared at the ceiling that badly needed repairs, and my mind got tangled up on the way she was looking down at me, and how cold her body seemed compared to normal. I thrust a few times and she moaned and twisted her head side to side. I came quickly, mostly by accident, and she flopped down on me, looking relieved.
"And you...?" I said coyly, tracing fingertips down her belly and snaking them between her legs. "It's your turn now...", but she squeezed her legs shut and smiled that same awful, tight-lipped smile and said, "it's OK, I'm not really in the mood anyway."
"Was I too ...was that too rough?" I asked, my cock rapidly deflating.
She wriggled off of me and reached for her shirt again.
"It's nothing, I already said. I told you I like it rough like that, really ...I'm just not in the mood for that right now."
I kissed her a little more after that, but then we both kind of drifted off from each other. Eventually she asked when I was going to go home.
"Home? Uh, I guess now," I said. I had stayed the night before, why couldn't I stay now?
She nodded and busied herself with the animals again.
I left soon after.
Chapter 17 - Madeleine
I lit the match and tried to find that thin ribbon of hot air floating above it. Tried to breathe in the light. It was getting late, a good few hours past midnight, but whatever. Tomorrow would come no matter what I did.
The flame wiggled and danced between my cupped hands as it burned its slow way down the matchstick. It reached the bottom and I blew it out and lit another. My spell wasn't working tonight. I flicked it aside and plunged myself into darkness again.
It's not that I was scared of him. I wasn't.
But this was all going too fast. It was pretty inconvenient, actually, that I turned into some sex-starved animal whenever he touched me. I let myself go in ways I never knew I needed to until I met him. He fucked me so hard and deep and kissed me so passionately he shook strange things loose inside. Things I had badly needed to be shaken loose. But now, here he was, telling me about a past that just didn't match up with his sweet blue eyes, or that wild curly blonde hair of his.
The story seemed strange, too. Was I missing something? Was that a story that really made any sense?
I had gone through all the therapy a person can be expected to go through. I had been putting healthy boundaries up between me and Alex, and I had felt, really felt, that I was getting stronger and more confident about myself. I'd lost a little bit of weight lately, I felt happier and work at the clinic didn't weight so heavily on me anymore.
So why did I feel so apprehensive? Was he about to ruin it all for me? After all, it was exactly my style to cut contact with one noxious man ...and then race into the arms of another. But I didn't have it in me to do that again. My bruises had healed but I couldn't do that again. No more. I couldn't risk opening up to a man who could ...I didn't even want to think of it.
But had I already gone too far?
For someone who was supposedly overcoming abuse, I seemed to like some dark things. I had pushed my body back into him, hadn't I? I had egged him on, relishing the feeling of his hand teasing round my throat when we had sex, encouraging him to be even rougher...I had felt a sick pride to see how red my skin would be after we'd been together.
Was I the problem?
I exhaled loudly and went to the bedroom. I was exhausted. I started to change into my pajamas and get ready for bed when I heard my phone beep. It was usually a happy sound for me. The sound of a message from Zack, and like a dog I was used to salivating every time I saw that little icon and his name pop up on my screen.
I rummaged for my phone and stared at it in the dim light of the room. A text. From Alex.

Alex: You're right. I'm selfish. I know it's unfair to keep hounding you to forgive me. I'll carry that guilt with me for the rest of my life. But I did mean it when I said I wanted you in my life still. As friends. Please consider it. I'm sorry.

I held the phone in my hands for a moment and thought. If it was any later I would have assumed I was dreaming. Alex was a devil. But he was, if you'll pardon the expression, a devil I knew. Though I had gone further with Zack than I had with any man, he still felt new and scary to me. And at that point, I didn't know which was worse - embarking on a new relationship with someone who was a potential abuser ...or embarking on a relationship with someone who treated me with nothing but love and respect. At the very least, I knew how to do the former.
I texted back.

Maddy: I'll always be your friend, Alex.

I hit send and imagined my words flitting off over the ether to him, wherever he was. I suddenly felt a pang of guilt for leaving him with that big, stupid restaurant bill.
The response was almost instant.

Alex: Can I call you?

The phone felt warm and strange in my hand. Like I was holding Alex himself, only a small and glowing version of him.

Maddy: Sure.

It was only a few moments before the phone was buzzing and flashing in my hands.
I answered.
"I'm sorry for leaving you with that bill," I said. I heard him laugh on the other side.
"Don't worry about it. It's just money" he said. The line went quiet.
In the dark, with just his disembodied voice coming from the phone, I felt safe for a second. I climbed into bed and curled up, cupping the phone to my ear as I tucked myself in.
"Alex, this is fucked up. I'm so tired. This can't go on anymore. I need to let go now. And I need you to let go of me," I said.
They were strange words, intimate words that seemed to come from somewhere far off outside of me. The second I spoke them I imagined the outpouring of rage he'd respond with, of his insults and venom. How he'd tell me it was all my fault, that we were only on a break anyway, that I owed him, that I was disgusting, that I was the fucked up one.
"I know," he said. "Maddy, I know."
I was flabbergasted.
"That's ...well that's not something I expected you to ever say."
"I know. Look, can we forget the whole dinner thing? It's hard for me, Maddy, being without you. I get crazy and frantic and then I stop thinking and then ...well, you've seen what an asshole I can be. I have no excuse. I don't know. I have problems. But I'm working on them."
"I've heard it all before, Alex. You hurt me."
The line was quiet for a while.
"I know. I hurt you and you were the one person who was gentle with me. The one person who tried to understand me. And I messed that up."
"Yeah. You messed it up a lot."
"You know what, Maddy, you should have broken up with me a long time ago. You're stronger than you know."
I laughed nervously.
"Who are you and what have you done with shitty old Alex?"
"Maddy, I'm serious. I walked all over you because ...because you were too good. Too sweet. I took advantage because I was an asshole, and you were kind to me, and I didn't know what to even do with that."
I couldn't believe what I was hearing. Alex, the man who would have punched a guy in the nose for looking at him funny, the guy who once broke his femur but finished his 8 hour shift first before going to the ER because he didn't want anybody to think he was a 'pansy' ... this same Alex was now speaking clearly and directly, saying all the things I had needed him to say so, so long ago. I was speechless.
"It's stupid, I get this idea that I could win you back somehow, but I realize that that's just another insult to you, just another imposition, you know? I get that. I'm sorry."
His voice sounded faint and thin. It almost didn't sound like him at all. Wasn't it strange, how fragile men were, after everything? I had nursed broken bones and split lips and black eyes more times than I could count. But right now, it felt like they were truly the damaged ones. For some reason, Zack flashed into my mind.
"Why did you do it, Alex? Why did you hit me?" I asked. We had never had a conversation like this before.
Silence.
"I was afraid."
"Of what?"
"Jesus, of so many things. Afraid you would leave. Afraid you would see what a fuck-up I was. You were always so smart, you know? You always knew so much. And you always seemed so calm. It pissed me off honestly. Like you were better than me. I don't know. It's sick. I felt like you would leave eventually. I couldn't talk to you. I had no idea how to even explain what I needed. I'm learning now, Maddy. Too late, I know, but I'm learning."
In the cool dark of the night, the tears on my lower lashes stung hot.
"I'm glad, Alex. I wish you only the best," I said. I meant it, too. The whole conversation felt like a dream, and at any moment I'd wake up and see the same old usual texts calling me a whore and it would be my life as usual and at least then I'd know what to do. But this was all so strange. I thought of Zack again. Of his story about his ex.
"Alex, I need your help with something."
"Anything," he answered immediately. "What do you need? I'll help you with anything."
"This new guy ...you know the one I've been seeing...?" I said. I heard him draw breath on the other side of the line.
"Yeah. The prisoner. What about him?"
"Well, I need some advice. He's a bit ...he's a bit like you, in some ways".
"Oh yeah? Asshole's got a left hook on him that I'm a little jealous of, but yeah."
"I'm afraid that ...don't take this the wrong way, but I'm afraid that if I get involved with him, the same thing will happen again. That he'll become violent, that we'll fight. Is that weird? Does that make sense?"
In the three years I had dated Alex, we had never had a conversation this personal, let alone a conversation about another man.
The line was quiet for a long, long time. I could hear him thinking. This was crazy. Maybe I had finally broken this weird spell, and he would launch into a full-blown attack now. Like always. Would he just laugh and say how this had all been one giant prank?
"Look, I'm not a fan of the guy, Maddy. Of course I'm not. He handed my ass to me; obviously I'm not going to sing the guy's praises. But there's only one question you need to ask, at the end of the day."
This was it. This was the cheesy hallmark moment when he would ask me if I loved Zack or not. But how would I know if I loved him? It was so soon. I had no idea what I really felt about him yet, wasn't it too soon? Who could ever really say, right? Did men ever really love women anyway?
"There's only one question I think you should ask, and that is, do you love yourself when you're around him?" he said.
My breath under the blankets was condensing into tiny water beads on the screen of the phone. It was a damn good question. And I answered it easily.
"Yes. Yes, I do."
"Well, then that seems pretty clear to me. Look, can I let you in on a little secret?"
"Ok..."
"The bigger and tougher the guy? The more noise he makes and the badder he seems? Well, the tougher the guy, the softer he is on the inside. I promise. Don't worry about guys who seem a bit dinged up. Don't be worried about angry men. It's the heart that matters. You're a good person, Maddy. You just don't know what's good for you. Does he make you happy?"
"Yes."
"Does he encourage you to do all the things you love, and does he ask about the things you care about and does he remember the answers you tell him?"
"He does, actually."
"Then go for it. And Maddy, if he ever lays a hand on you ..." he said, and I could hear the smile on his voice. "Well I can try beat him up for you, right? Don't stress about that. You deserve nice things. Trust yourself. And try to remember, not all men are like me."
I was crying. The tears rolled easily out of my eyes and into the pillowcase. Why had Alex waited so long to say all of this? Where was this sweet, understanding guy when I had needed him? Why did he have to hurt me to realize all of this? A sad sense of regret washed over me.
"Oh my god, Alex, I don't know when you turned into, like, Oprah or something," I mumbled, trying to wipe my cheeks. He laughed good-naturedly.
"Yeah, well, I guess they're getting something through my thick skull at that course I told you about."
"Oh right, the course. I forgot about that. I guess it was worth the money."
"The money was nothing. Money's just money. The real cost was losing you," he said, voice serious again.
I was stunned.
"Alex, I'm sorry ...but we can't be together anymore, Alex, we can't."
"I'm not asking you to."
"You're not?"
"No. Go and be with what's-his-face. Guy seems a little rough around the edges but he doesn't take shit. I can respect that."
I beamed.
"I like him Alex. I think I like him a lot."
I heard him clear his throat on the other end of the line.
"I'm gonna go now, Maddy. It's hard, talking to you like this. Please take care of yourself?"
"Are you ...are you going now? Can I speak to you again?" I said.
It felt like Alex had been in my life forever. He had never said 'goodbye' and meant it before. Hell, most of our relationship was spent with me wishing he'd just go once and for all. But something in the tone of his voice let me know he was serious this time.
"Alex, I'll miss you," I said quietly.
"I'll miss you too."
"Goodbye."
"Goodbye, Maddy. Thank you for everything."
The line went dead before I could thank him in return. And just like that, he was gone.
I lay for a long time in bed, thinking. It was so late, but my mind was racing. One of the cats jumped onto the bed and nestled beside me, and my hand went absentmindedly to stroke her warm ears as she curled up against me.
It was true. I felt different around Zack. Like myself, only better.
I drifted off to sleep, thinking how difficult it had seemed to cut the ties of the past, but how swiftly they had dissolved now, all at once. I almost couldn't imagine life now, without a crazy ex hanging over me. Hand on the cat's ears, I slipped into a long, dreamless sleep.
And I thought of him.
Chapter 18 - Zack
"Ben, go and call your father for dinner please," she said.
Ma was in her reclining chair; milky eyes scanning round the living room, both her gnarled hands clutching the arms of the chair like turkey claws.
"Ma, Ben isn't here. It's only me. It's Zack here with you, remember?"
She tightened her mouth a little and looked me over, and then chuckled.
"Sorry about that, just having a senior moment, honey," she muttered under her breath.
These 'senior moments' were looking more and more like full blown dementia, if any of the five doctors from the last month were to be trusted. A month ago it had only been a once-daily event, and she was sly enough to hide any memory lapses inside a well-timed joke, or she'd simply shrug her shoulders and change the topic. But she was becoming worse at that lately. And the senior moments were coming thick and fast.
At her age, nobody expected her to endure much more time beyond what she'd already done. In prison, you could spot people like my mother a mile away. They were going through the motions, sure, but everyone could see that they were done. They had done their time, and now they had checked out, in spirit if not in body.
Though it chewed me up to see her like this, I was also secretly relieved. Ma had started complaining about being tired from the time I was in middle school. And she had never stopped being tired. She was still tired. Nobody would blame her if she took a rest now. Not after everything.
"Ben? Won't you call Maggie for dinner?" she said, her eyes scanning over the room again.
I rubbed my face.
"Ma, it's me Zack. Ben isn't here. And Maggie isn't here either."
She looked puzzled and squeezed the sides of the chair.
"Is she coming for dinner?"
"No, ma, Maggie and I broke up, remember? A long time ago."
She frowned and squeezed, squeezed and frowned.
"Broke up? Are you sure?"
I was about to say something when the doorbell rang. Who the hell could that be, so late at night? I stood up.
"That'll be Maggie! Such a sweet girl. Go and get her, we're starting with dinner soon."
I sighed and walked over to the door and opened it.
My jaw dropped.
It was Maggie. Fucking Maggie. Alive and well and real as anything and standing in our doorway, her handbag held across her body and her eyes wide. I heard ma shuffling behind me and turned to see her smiling and gesturing for Maggie to come in.
"Well, don't just stand there, honey, come inside, we're just about to have dinner!"
Those few seconds were the most excruciating of my life. Maggie stood there, all black hair and black clothes and panda eyes just like she always did them, and everything was just the same, except she was a little older. A little more tired looking, maybe. She looked as confused as I was, and shot me strange looks as she stepped inside and stood there awkwardly as ma forced a hug on her and then pulled her into the living room. I closed the door and tried to think. I hadn't seen Maggie in ...years.
She was dead to me, for all it mattered. After everything happened, she had become a ghost. And now she was resurrected somehow and here, in my living room. For a brief moment, I wondered if something sinister was about to happen. I closed the door quietly, mind racing.
They were both sitting on the sofa. Ma gripped Maggie's hands in hers and raced through some small talk, cooing over her and smiling.
"So what ...uh, what are you having for dinner?" Maggie asked. She shot pleading eyes at me as I walked in.
"Dinner? Oh no honey we've had dinner already."
I caught Maggie's eye and we stared at each other for a moment, two whole years and a jail sentence somehow crammed in that little space between us.
"Is this a bad time? I can just go."
"Go? Don't be crazy, for goodness sake," ma said and stood to hobble towards the kitchen. "I'll tell you what, I'll leave you kids be, I've got work to do anyway."
"Work? Ma, what work are you doing?" I said. I couldn't deal with this shit right now.
"Well gosh, it's nearly 8 o'clock and I haven't even started dinner yet, that's what!"
I stood in front of Maggie and we looked at one another. I didn't know whether to laugh or cry.
"Your mom... she's not well," she said. Her voice was still that same husky timbre I remembered. The kind of voice that only went clear and bright when she was screaming at you. A dangerous voice. Threatening or sexy, depending on how sure of yourself you felt.
"Yeah. Senior moments. It's not looking good," I said, and rubbed the back of my neck with my hand.
"You look well," she said quietly.
"Thanks. You too, I guess."
I realized all at once that I wanted her to leave. I was bone tired. This shit with ma's dementia, and with Maddy suddenly seeming all distant and weird with me, and having to make money stretch till the end of the month while I waited for my first salary from the new job to come in... it was all too much. And she was too much. She had always been too much.
"Sit with me?" she said and patted the sofa seat next to her.
I shifted my weight and crossed my arms, not budging. The faint smile disappeared from her face.
"I heard you got out."
"Evidently," I said. It came out sounding meaner than I wanted it to, but I hated her being in ma's house like this. Seeing ma struggle. Why had she pitched up here so late? And wasn't she supposed to be living out of state somewhere?
She stood up and sidled over to me, and I felt the hairs stand on the back of my neck. Her perfume was too strong and her lipstick too dark. I couldn't decipher her expression but I knew I didn't like it. She was looking at me the same way Maddy would look at one of her sick puppies after it threw up on the carpet: half pity, half irritation.
"You're angry at me," she said. If she was planning on having a big fat discussion right now, she had another thing coming.
"Can I ask why you're here?" I said.
"Just to talk. It's been so long."
She took a step towards me and stood close. Really close. Her body suddenly struck me as so small compared to Maddy's. It was a tight body. All teeth and bone and spite, held together with jewelry. She was like a bat. It took everything in me not to take a step away from her. To my dismay, I could hear ma clanging pots and pans in the kitchen.
Maggie reached out and touched my arm, and my skin crawled under her touch. Before I could object, she wrapped her arms round my neck and brought herself in for a hug. A wave of anger washed through me and I pushed her back again, hard, causing her to stagger back a step.
"What are you doing?" I hissed.
"What are you doing?" She looked down at the place where I had pushed her, then back up at me. Her voice wasn't at screaming pitch yet, but it sure was getting there.
"Maggie, I haven't seen you in years. I don't ...why are you even here?"
I heard ma begin to sing in the kitchen. A hard lump gathered in my throat.
"Jeez, fuck, I'm so sorry, I thought you'd be glad to see me," she said bitterly.
"You just disappeared, Maggie. I didn't hear from you. It's been two years. Where the fuck did you even go?"
"I was hurting, Zack, OK? I was really confused. A lot of stuff happened back then, you know..."
"Yeah, all stuff that you caused."
The look on her face was painful to see.
"I was scared, Zack."
"So, what am I supposed to do about that? Leave then. Why are you even here?" My fists were so tight I felt my nails bite into my palms.
She sighed. "I see that not much has changed."
"What do you want, Maddy?" I was more than bone tired.
"Maddy? Did you just call me Maddy?"
My skin prickled into a cold sweat.
"I think you should just go. Unless you had something specific you wanted to say, well, it's late and I have to work tomorrow..."
"Who's Maddy?" she asked, quick as a fox. She was almost smiling. I looked her square in the eye and sighed loudly.
"A woman I'm seeing."
A wonderful woman, my inner dialogie continued. A woman who taught me things I didn't even know I needed to learn. A sweet, beautiful, loving woman, one who's very body seemed designed for every form of pleasure. A woman who made me want to weep with joy every time she looked my way and smiled. A woman who knew my dark, sordid history. Most of it anyway. And a woman who was drifting away, even now, even at this very second as ma was making dinner for the second time that evening, and my sordid past had rung the doorbell and waltzed into my living room in black stilettos, like nothing had ever happened.
"A woman. Is it serious?" she asked. Like she had any right to know.
"Yes. I think so."
She looked at me.
"Does she know about me?"
I knew how her mind worked. For Maggie, everything was about her, and she had endless energy for creating whatever drama she needed to if she happened to find that something had the audacity to not be about her.
"Yes," I said simply.
I knew that for Maggie, words were weapons, and she loved to take yours from you and turn them right back against you. So I gave her just one.
She took a step back and slowly paced around the room, picking up ma's little ornaments and knick-knacks in her hand, one at a time, examining each one like she was deciding whether to smash it onto the ground or not. She seemed unimpressed with everything.
"And does she know about your ...little issue?" she asked, with slow, quiet deliberation, almost sneering the words.
"That has nothing to do with anything. There is no issue. You know I was getting help for that, even before I went in."
She shot me a poisonous look.
"So you haven't told her then," she said, and smiled darkly.
"There's nothing to tell."
"Poor girl."
"What's that supposed to mean?"
She paced around the room a little more, like a panther in its cage, like she was gathering up strength to say the most biting thing she possibly could. There was a time when Maggie was young and sweet. When her black hair had a playful blue glint to it. Not anymore though. Life had done weird things to her. She picked up a tiny crystal frog in her hands and turning it over and over.
"I think you'd better go now, Maggie," I said, and took a step towards her. The second I did, she jolted away from me. Both her hands instantly flew up as though to defend herself, a little black deer in headlights. She seemed genuinely alarmed. Was I such a monster? Was I so bad that people needed to be jittery around me? She gave a nervous smile and placed a hand on her chest to calm down, as though someone had just jumped out at her from behind a door.
"I'm sorry," she said, suddenly more serious. "You're not the only one with flashbacks, you know."
She squirmed a little under my gaze. I felt like shit. It had taken all of five minutes of seeing her again and the old familiar feeling had come rushing right back: around Maggie, I was always the villain. Always the unwanted brute. Able to make her wince and cower just by moving too quickly.
I wrestled internally for a moment, wondering whether reaching out and hugging her would be soothing or just another insult for her to shrink back from. For a moment, her hair had that glossy blue tint in it again.
"Maggie ...I'm sorry. What the hell happened to us? How did it get this bad?"
Like some kind of dangerous creature wriggling off a fly, she shrugged and looked up at me, eyes hardening up again. Here she was, my past, in the shape of a thin, angry woman. You may be able to run away from the past for a while, sure, but those things carry on living just the same without you. While I had my back turned, Maggie had become a strange caricature of herself.
The words that came out of her mouth next were kind and sweet, but said with a hidden venom. She made me remember how everything with her had always been just a little threatening, a little strange. She was the wasp hiding inside a flower. She painted her long nails red and smiled, but I was never sure what that smile meant.
"I don't know what happened to us. Too much."
"I'm sorry, Maggie, for everything."
"I'm sorry too."
"Have you been coping OK? With work and stuff? How's everyone? I heard you moved."
She smiled wistfully and tilted her head.
"I'm fine. Life goes on. Whatever. I just ...I thought of you a lot, when you were away. I had a lot of time to think."
"Me too."
She lifted big, liquid eyes up at me.
"I've missed you, Zack."
My jaw tightened. I reached out and hugged her after all. She didn't resist. So I held her close a little and hugged her, and she let me.
"I missed you too, Maggie."
Her body felt small and nervous in my arms. She leant into me a little, pressing her cheek against my chest. Despite myself, despite everything in me railing against it, despite everything that had happened and despite two whole years I had spent trying to wash her little black tendrils from out of my mind, despite all that, I felt my body responding to her. I tried to push her away again but she held on to me. Her body against mine reminded me of things. Of the things I knew she kept underneath all that black clothing. Of how things used to be between us.
"Do you remember how angry you used to be...?" she whispered, and before I knew it her hand was pressing urgently against my crotch. I shuddered and closed my eyes. Of course I remembered.
"How could I forget?" I said, and her hand was like a spell on me, conjuring up a past that I had tried so hard to forget, but which my body somehow remembered. I became so hard it nearly hurt. She rose up to her toes and whispered seductively into my ear.
"You know what I missed the most, Zack? Missed more than anything?"
I was more than a hundred pounds heavier than her and taller by a foot, but pulling away from her grasp at that moment seemed liked the hardest thing in the world.
"Do you know what I miss, Zack? I miss how cruel you were," she continued. I twitched in her hands, trapped, unable to decide if I even wanted her to stop.
"Do you remember how hard you used to fuck me? You used to call it your 'haze', do you remember? I remember," she whispered.
I groaned and pushed her away, shaking my head.
"Maggie, no. I can't."
She drew back and looked me over.
"What? That other woman?"
"I care about her. She's special. She's a good woman. I want to do the right thing this time," I said, almost pleading.
She giggled.
"The right thing? Zack, the right thing for you is to stay away from any 'good woman'. You're a menace," she said darkly.
"I'm different now."
She looked down at my crotch and smirked at me.
"Really? You seem just the same to me." She leaned in for another kiss, but I twisted my head away from her.
"I mean it, Maggie. I'm trying to be better."
She cocked her head to the other side, undeterred.
"I understand you, Zack. We understand each other. There is no better for someone like you. But I don't care how fucked up you are. We could try again..."
"I think you'd just better go," I said, and squared my shoulders. I thought of Maddie. Of her mousy hair and fleshy hips. "That's all in the past now."
She frowned and shrugged, her mouth twisted.
"Suit yourself," she said breezily. "When you break this other chick's heart and she gets a restraining order against you or whatever, get in touch with me if you like. I can't guarantee that I'll be waiting around for you though."
When she opened the door to leave, a big gust of cold wind blew into the house and lingered, even after she slammed the door again. I stared at the space where she had been standing. The frog had been put back down on the table in the wrong place, carelessly.
"Zack?"
I turned to see ma in the kitchen doorway, her old apron tied on and her brows knitted.
"Zack. We've already had dinner haven't we?" she said, looking miserable. I nodded and she came up to me, and I folded my arms around her and pulled her frail body close.
"I'm scared, Zack. It's happening so often now."
I squeezed her and kissed her head. It smelt like powder and paper and sadness.
"I know, ma. I'm here. Don't worry about it. I'm here."
"Did I hear voices? Was somebody in here with you?" she said, and lifted questioning eyes to me.
"Yeah ...it was uh ...it was Maggie."
She started and pulled away from my arms.
"Maggie?"
Her face was twisted in confusion.
"Unless we're both having a senior moment, ma, Maggie came round. We chatted for a bit. I told her to get lost."
Ma stepped forward and patted my arm knowingly.
"You don't let that witch come inside here again. She's done enough damage already."
I hugged her again.
"I know what you need!" she said, clapping her hands together with glee.
"What's that?"
"My famous spaghetti bolognaise. It's so late and we both haven't had any dinner yet, that's the problem," she said, and made for the kitchen.
I tried again to swallow down the lump in my throat, but it wouldn't go. Maggie was a bitch. I hated everything she was and everything she reminded me of. But there was one small irritating detail: she was right. About everything.
"Sure, ma. Your spaghetti's the best."
Chapter 19 - Madeleine
I smiled at the piece of paper, read the word written on it once over again, and folded it half a few times.
Alex.
I held the ball of paper in my fingertips, dipped it over the flame and watched as the fire licked the end and was soon burning it up. First the "A" disappeared, then the "L", and I smiled when only "EX" was left. And then that, too, burnt away, and his name turned to cinders in my hands, and those blew away and disappeared as well.
I took a deep breath.
Today would be a good day.
I had already discussed it all with my therapist. I was allowed to want things. To trust myself again. To open up to Zack and be vulnerable with him, even though it was the scariest thing in the world for me. Even though he had a dark past. Even though he had done to others the one thing I swore I would never let anyone do to me again.
He was going to be here any minute, and so I dashed around the house quickly, kicking cat toys under the sofa, plumping the pillows and arranging and rearranging the candles neatly. It wasn't the fanciest house you've ever seen in your life. But at the least it could be comfortable.
Being so proactive was a new thing for me. And the prospect was exciting. Me, Maddy Bright with her love handles and unfashionable hair and abandonment issue; little old me, warts and all, finally, once and for all, in a real, genuine relationship. Not the hostage situation I had going on with Alex. Not a pact with a broken boy I would nurse to health like I did one of my rescues. But a healthy, grown up and mature relationship. Why not? If Alex could move on and improve in life, so could I.
I heard his footsteps crunching on the gravel outside and raced to the mirror to check my reflection. He'd kiss all this lipstick off anyway, but I liked that I put it on all the same.
"Zack is that you?" I called out. When he appeared in the doorway I bounced over to him for a big hug, then planted my lips onto his and kissed him deeply. He laughed, then pulled back to get a good look at my outfit.
"Whoa, will you just look at you! You expecting anyone?" he said, with that deliciously naughty twinkle in his eye. I swatted his arm and pulled him inside.
"As a matter of fact, I am, silly. His name is Zack Hunter and he thinks he's funny. You wouldn't have seen him around by any chance, would you?" I said and beamed at him. Even I was surprised by how happy I was to see him.
He gave the two dogs lazing on the carpet an affectionate belly rub each and then stood to smile back at me.
"Zack you say, huh? Yeah I might have heard about that guy ...he's a shady one, I'd be careful," he said, and then reached out and pulled me back into his arms for another kiss.
I loved how easy it was for us. How right it all felt. Why had I ever resisted him? Who cared if he had some trouble in the past with an ex? Didn't we all? But that was the past. We were here in the present now, so what did any of that matter?
"Come and sit down. I have so much I wanted to tell you."
He looked a little nervous as I sat beside him and cleared my throat. I made a mental note to get a better sofa. If I were going to be a mature, healthy, put-together adult, I'd have to start by getting some more sophisticated furniture, for one.
"I broke up with Alex. Properly this time."
He looked at me blankly.
"I know, I've been broken up with him for ages, but this time everything's really well and truly over. That cord is cut," I said, and mimed a string that I snipped in half with two fingers.
He smiled and placed a firm hand on my knee and squeezed.
"That's great, Maddy. I'm glad to hear that. It sounds like you guys had a really ...unhealthy thing going on. I'm glad you're not going to take his shit anymore."
"Oh, but that's the thing, that's what different this time. I think I actually understand all his shit now. I think I can forgive him. We talked it all out, and you know, I can't describe it, but I feel like I can move on from this now you know?"
I was expecting him to be a little more excited. I guess you can't expect people to throw a party the fortieth time you've broken up with the same guy. But still.
"I just ...I've been doing a lot of thinking lately. About him, about you. That's why I wanted to talk to you today" I said. I didn't like that my words seemed to make him frown. I went on.
"I'm sorry about the other day Zack. How ...weird things were between us. I just needed to get my head clear about some things. I was just... I was scared."
His face dropped. His pale eyes were flat but infinitely deep somehow. Like the sky. Like anything could be going on in there. He said nothing. This wasn't quite how I had planned things. Like an idiot, and totally not like a mature, sophisticated woman who had her shit together, I carried on talking.
"So I guess what I needed to tell you is that I'm over all that now. New leaf and everything you know? I had such an interesting conversation with Alex, and I think I had some real insights into things, and into, you know, the whole situation, and that's why I wanted to talk to you, because my therapist says I shouldn't be afraid to ask for the things I want, and what I really want is to be honest with you, and I feel like we've gotten on so well till now and so..."
"Maddy, we should stop seeing each other."
His voice was like a kick to my guts.
"What? But why?"
He was perched against our same old sofa, the unassuming place where this all had started, and now he was telling me he wanted to end it. He couldn't make eye contact.
"Zack, why? I don't understand." My sophisticated woman act was hanging on by a thread.
"Because I'm not good for you. You said so yourself, you're scared of me," he said, staring so hard at the floor I thought he'd burn holes into it.
"But ...but..."
"It's true though, isn't it? And you should be scared. I'm fucking scary. I could hurt you. Maybe people like you and me never change. Maybe you keep going after guys who hurt you and I keep going after women who let me hurt them, and maybe that'll never change."
My ears stung. I didn't know what to do with my hands. The makeup on my face suddenly seemed so embarrassing. So stupid and weak. I took a deep breath and tried to think. This was fixable. It had to be. He didn't mean it. He didn't want to break up, surely.
"You're wrong, Zack. People can change. So you hit your ex once, so what, big deal. People hurt people in this world, but it's OK to move on from that. You can't beat yourself up about that forever."
He sat still but I could tell his muscles were working and tightening under his tanned skin. I could almost make out the wires in his strong neck slowly ratcheting up. All at once I heard Alex's voice in my head: the harder the guy on the outside, the softer on the inside. I wasn't scared anymore. The air thrummed while I waited for him to say something, anything.
"There's other stuff, Maddy. Stuff you don't know about."
"Like what?"
"What I did in Iraq. What we all did." He still couldn't bring his eyes up to meet mine. I smiled and took a step to him.
"God, Zack, I don't care about that. You needed to do what you needed to do. Nobody blames you for that. It's not your fault, I mean come on, it doesn't mean we have to break up..."
"I did bad things, Maddy." He was wringing his hands, left over right over left again, as though he was trying to wash away something stubborn, something that wouldn't come off. I took another step towards him.
"That's all in the past now," I said softly.
"No. It isn't. I see their faces every night in my dreams," he said, voice choking.
It hadn't been that long ago since we had lain down on that very sofa together, his strong, naked body seeming like the safest place in the world. He looked so much smaller to me now. I went over and sat on the sofa with him, as though being there would protect me somehow from all the things he was saying. I reached out and carefully put my hand on his back.
"It's not your fault, Zack. I know you would never want to hurt anyone on purpose. Whatever it is you did over there, I'm sure it's not like you enjoyed it or anything."
"Didn't I?"
I snapped my hand back as he shot me a vicious look. The stinging started up in my ears again, stirring up into a full-blown whine.
"What do you mean?"
"What do you mean what do I mean? What I fucking said!"
He sprung up and all at once he swung a long leg back and hurled it forward, kicking the coffee table and sending it tumbling into the corner. I screamed and jumped back, but he pinned me in place with one hard look, his eyes wild and his chest heaving.
"You like this?" he yelled. "Huh? Think this is something you can fix?"
Though I tried not to, I began to cry. Maybe he was right. There was nothing else for me. Nothing but to repeat this same sad, stupid story over and over again.
He was pacing aggressively up and down the living room now, wiping his face, spitting mad.
"Being there did something to me, Maddy. I'm not a good man..."
"Yes you are!" I cried, trying to convince myself more than him. Not a bad man, he had said, but a man. My head was spinning.
"Listen to me, Maddy. You want the truth? All of it? Here it is. I liked it. The ...stuff that happened there, I can't explain it. A part of me wanted it. A sick part. It changed me, Maddy."
We stood together in silence for a moment, the coffee table a sad casualty, keeled over to the side and everything that was on it splayed all across the floor. The world went dark for a moment. I stood dead still, mesmerized by his feet on the floor. Pacing up and down. Up and down. The fog in my head was clearing a little. Up and down. A part of me had wanted it to. All the pain. All the slapped skin and twisted wrists.
He took a deep breath and stared at me like he would pounce on me any second, then started pacing again.
"So we should break up. There's no other way. Find a nice guy who won't bring this sick shit into your life and take care of your animals and ju--"
"You let that bitch send you to jail because you felt guilty," I said, cutting him off.
"What?"
"I get it now. I think I understand. You felt bad, for whatever it is that you did over there. Whatever awful thing you think you did, you came back and you were just looking for an excuse. And you didn't fight her because you felt bad. You wanted to be punished."
He stopped pacing.
"Don't try to fix me, Maddy. It can't be done," he said in a voice dripping with sarcasm.
Some animals are like this. Abused dogs, especially, or animals that have been abandoned and left to fend for themselves. They curl their spines and bare their teeth and snap at anyone. But they especially snap at people who want to be kind to them.
"I don't care about any of it, Zack. I like the things we do together. Even the ...dark things."
"You should dump me."
"I'm not going anywhere."
"Then I'll go," he snapped and made for the door.
"You're not going anywhere either," I said firmly.
He looked at me.
"Then what? You like this?" he scoffed. "You like having some big crazy out-of-control guy in your living room?"
And then, God help me, I did something that took all the strength I had left. I didn't know how the fuck to be a put-together, sophisticated woman. I didn't know how to pretend that I didn't crave him, didn't think about him. That I was fine on my own and didn't need anyone. But I did know how to do something.
I took a step towards him.
I had nothing left. Being kind is the only weapon I've ever had, and it was the only thing I could now, to stop him from walking out of that door and leaving me forever.
With shaking hands, I lifted the hem of my shirt over the top of my head and flung it off to the side. Standing in my jeans and bra, my skin crisped up under his gaze. Slowly, I took off my bra, too. My nipples hardened and tightened to a slightly deeper shade of pink-brown. It was as though I had charmed a snake. He was frozen where he stood, watching me rapt, something dark going on behind those light eyes.
I unbuttoned the jeans, bent to slide them off and then straightened, throwing them in the direction of my poor murdered coffee table. My panties disappeared the same way, and I stood naked before him. My permanent 'last few pounds'. My stretchmarks. My clumsy knees and nerdy hair. I held my shoulders back and stared back at him, hard, and it took everything I had in me.
His expression swirled and contorted as he looked me over. Alex hadn't given me any advice about what to do about a man like this, and so I was going to have to figure it out myself.
"I'm not good for you," he muttered, unconvincingly.
I took a step forward.
"I'll only hurt you," he said again, and this time he was the fearful one. I took another step closer to him. I took a deep breath and opened my arms slightly to him, presenting myself.
"Don't hold back," I said.
Chapter 20 - Zack
The haze lingered on the edge of my awareness. Dark, misty. Dangerous. I had put it away a long time ago, and now she was pulling it out of me again.
Her body was the most gorgeous thing I had ever seen. Every part of her curved, every line ended in some delicious cleft or curl, every surface of her looked silky and full. Just looking at her turned me on. I stiffened instantly, but more than that, I felt it in the back of my throat.
The haze descended slowly. And I let it.
I swiftly stepped back into the room and with a brutal kick, banished the upturned table even further. Even from where I stood, I could see the bob in her throat as she swallowed, watching me wide-eyed. I approached her, then roughly pushed the sofa out of the way. It was an ugly fucking sofa, and it was too small, and I hated it. No, what I was going to do to her now would have to happen on the floor.
A little smile twitched on the corner of her mouth, even though her eyes were still wide and wobbly with fear. What did such a sweet, pearly-skinned thing like her know about anything? About death? About violence? About fucking? She was all sweetness and light, this little bubble, this peach, and I was about to do things to her that would make her scream and cry and beg for mercy.
I picked up a floor lamp and brought it up over my head and then swung it down in one savage movement, smashing the glass on top. I tossed it aside and heard it clatter away.
She wanted it? I'd give it to her all right. The haze came over me and I let it. The room around receded. All her girly little trinkets disappeared, all the mismatched furniture, and the light went dim, and all that remained was my body, and her body, and the nasty things I was going to do to it.
I peeled off my shirt and let it slip to the ground. I loosened my belt and unzipped, relishing how the sound of the buckle hitting the floor seemed to send a fresh wave of panic through her. But she stood her ground. She looked at me defiantly, then down at my rapidly hardening cock, then back up at me again. "Don't hold back," she had said. I liked that. It was cute.
I kicked the crumpled jeans away and gobbled her up with my eyes. Like a little girl who's just defied her parents, she raised her chin and stared straight back at me. Behind the falling haze, a part of me was terrified. This was it. She'd run away for sure, after all this. But the haze said, so what? Then fuck her before she does. At the back of my mind, a little voice said I would be too rough, that she was too kind, too lovely, too sweet. The haze thickened around me and said, sweet? Not for very much longer...
"Get on your knees," I said, without thinking.
She was on the floor in a split second. I sauntered up to her and stood there for a moment, enjoying her eyes as they tracked my cock swaying in front of her face. She was so pretty. I lowered my fingertips and gently stroked the side of her cheek, a little open-sesame gesture to open up that pouty mouth of hers. She opened up, obediently. I slipped inside her warm mouth. The soft pad of skin under her chin bulged as she struggled to take me all in, her eyebrows sloping as I pushed, and pushed. She was warm inside, all the little parts of her mouth and tongue trembling around my shaft, and I pushed in further still.
Her flat hand came up to touch my groin, halting me at that depth, showing me that I could go no deeper. I flicked her hand away again and smiled. Good. That only let me know exactly where I would be pushing in even more. I slid in further, and she squeezed her eyes shut, both hands clasped in her lap like a choir girl, eyebrows kinking with concentration.
Her little tongue desperately tried to suck around me, but I placed a firm hand on her head.
"Did I tell you to suck?" I growled. She stopped. I didn't want any of that. I just wanted to be fucking in her, as far as I could go. I had fucked the rest of her so thoroughly already, but this place, this sweet little spot right at the back of her throat, this wasn't completely mine yet.
"Don't move," I ordered, and she obeyed, her overactive little eyebrows going still. I pressed in further. Pressed in so far that the flat of my stomach met her lips, and then, I went in further. Till the full length of my cock disappeared completely into her. Till my balls were against her chin. Fuck yes. Just like that.
Her legs squirmed and her chest fluttered a little as she focused on squeezing me all in. I reached down and grabbed a rough fistful of her hair, then slowly, so slow it nearly made me groan out loud, I pulled back her head and watched as the red, slick shaft of my cock slid all the way back out again, and I marveled at how she had swallowed it all, right the way to the hilt.
I was about to slam it back into her face again when I peered down and saw she had parted her kneeling legs, and had squirrelled away a little hand, a hand which was now working furiously on her clit as she held me in her mouth. She was fucking enjoying it. The haze thickened. I drew back, and slid the full length back into her again, holding her head firmly in place. And then I did it again. And again.
Her lower lashes were going damp with the strain of opening her throat for me, but not for one second did her little fingers stop. I growled and picked up the pace, burying both hands in that pretty girl hair of hers. Fuck, she felt amazing. I was too big for her. Too big by far. But come hell or high water, she was going to take every last inch of it, and I was going to make her, one way or another.
She choked a little but I kept going. I was in the haze. The small, fearful part of me was gone. All that remained was my body, and hers, the nasty things I was going to do to it. When I'd had enough I pulled upwards on her hair and brought her staggering a little to her feet. Her lips were glossy with spit and out the corner of my eye I saw her hand held off to the side, fingers also wet. She stared even more defiantly at me. Good. I was going to fuck her so hard and so good she'd be sorry she ever dared open this can of worms. Fingers still laced in her long hair, I pulled her firmly over for a kiss, and pressed a greedy tongue deep into her, guiding and angling her head as I did so. She kissed back, without resistance.
"On the floor," I said, and released her hair. She got back onto her knees again, but I laughed, reached down to grab her shoulders, thrusting her forward and onto her hands and knees.
"Like a dog," I said, and she dutifully hung her head low and took a deep breath. It was a side of her I had never seen before. Not 'submissive'. Oh no, Madeleine Bright could never submit to anyone. It was more like ...an offer. As she settled into her new stance she raised her ass a little and waggled it. It sent a wicked thrill through me, knowing that she knew full well what I intended to do to her.
I positioned myself behind her and with my foot, tapped the inside of both her inner thighs.
"Wider," I said.
She spread her knees a little further apart, splitting that gorgeous cunt of her straight down the middle and giving me the most perfect view of the wet little slit down the middle. I couldn't believe my eyes. She had said time and time before how this position was too much for her, how I was too big for it, how I went in too deep that way. I grasped her round hips and with one strong pump of my hips, I sunk deeply into her and paused as she whimpered below me.
The black haze buzzed around me so much that my thinking slowed and then stopped completely. Everything dissolved into sensation, the feeling of her wet, tight body engulfing me ...the shuddering sound of her breath rushing into and out of her beautiful body ...the naughty sounding squelch as I buried myself deeper and deeper into her excited little pussy.
I banged my hips harder and harder into hers, fists holding tight round her waist, pushing her knees even further apart with my legs, so that she had no choice but to flop down and back onto my cock ...all of it. With each stab I felt myself growing wild, becoming harder inside her, swelling and knotting up inside the glorious heat of her, the tip of me threatening to explode.
Her heavy breasts swung wildly with each thrust. I could see her slender, outstretched arms hopelessly trying to steady her against the delicious cruelty I as pounding down onto her again, and again, and again. Her greedy little pussy puffed up and slip all the way down me, barely kissing the base of my cock before stroking me all the way up again, dousing me in her sweet juices, thrust after thrust after thrust.
I knew I was being too rough.
I was going too hard.
Too fast.
But I couldn't stop. As I lifted her hips up and brought her down again and again onto my merciless cock, her knees nearly came off the floor entirely, and a deep guttural sound came over me at the thought of her so desperately compromised.
Fucked. Utterly impaled.
I threw back my head and let the rippling of her body wash over me. The haze closed over me like a dark, formless envelope. I realized my cheeks were wet. I looked down at her magnificent backside to see it slapped raw and red. Was that me? Had I done that to her? It didn't matter now. The haze closed over me, cleanly, and I disappeared far away into myself.
Into her.
Chapter 21 - Madeleine
I lay against his chest until the air outside changed and it grew dark. It might have been an hour. It might have been three. I had placed my sweat-soaked and exhausted body length-ways along his, and as both our bodies cooled, it seemed that we had cemented ourselves together like that, permanently. There didn't seem to be any reason to move anyway.
Not yet.
I nestled my head in the crook of his armpit and snuggled against him as he lay staring up at the ceiling. Or someplace far beyond the ceiling. Slowly, like I was afraid to scare it off if I moved too quickly, I began to think about what had happened to me. To him.
Gradually, and then all at once, something had come over him. His edges blurred. He became an animal. I struggled to keep up with him. Somehow, his face had dissolved and he stopped being Zack, and became ...something else. Meat. A body. Something sad and wild and hungry and full to bursting with rage.
I settled against his body and he congealed against me, settled back into human form, re-shaped into the man I knew. But my own body was tender. I had come hard and desperately, shuddering and crying and with nothing to hold onto but the very man who was responsible for all the pleasure-pain in the first place. There was not an atom, not an inch that he hadn't given me; everything was spent. His orgasm came over him like a defeat and he cried out like an animal, the knots all along his strong abdominals yanking tight as he bucked and quaked against me.
We had gone all the way to the edge. And then over it. I was covered in bruises and welts and patches of red, angry flesh. My body was sore and stretched and stinging. And yet, I felt more alive than ever. Stronger than ever. Like the surface damage to my body only fired me up somewhere deeper down, where it counted.
I traced my fingertips over the pink and red marks blooming along my upper thighs. I knew marks like this - they would morph into black bruises overnight, slowly, as my body came to realize the insult and decided to sulk in nasty shades of green and grey. But these bruises were different.
"That looks bad," he said at last, looking down at my body. I had forgotten what his human voice sounded like.
"Not bad. Good," I said.
But that wasn't quite right either. It was bad. Bad and good. It didn't make much sense in my mind yet. But as I stroked absentminded fingers over those raw places on my skin, I wondered whether my body already knew. The words 'good and bad' didn't even begin to properly hold all the strange sensations swirling in me. Zack seemed beyond that somehow. He had most eloquently told me what he needed, not with words, but with his body. And somehow I had understood, not with my brain, and not even with my heart. But somewhere in these strange, blooming bruises on my legs and belly and arms. I stroked them gently, and understood.
"So..." he said.
"So," I returned.
"I'm sorry about what I did to your furniture."
"It's just furniture."
"And I'm sorry about what I did to your ...butt."
I laughed.
"You're not a bad man Zack. But you are a man."
Chapter 22 - Zack
There was something so pleasing about watching the white paste squashing seamlessly into the cracks. I pressed over the holes and dents, again and again, easing the mixture in and then leaning back to admire my smooth handiwork.
Once I had finished the ceiling, the rest of the house had started crying out to me for repairs. The tiles in the guest bathroom needed to be grouted again. Her extractor fan needed to replaced entirely. The woman I loved had cat flaps on every door in her home, each and every one of them broken. Once I went into repair-mode, I found I had my work cut out for me.
"Who's a little jelly bean nose? Who is? Is it you? Hm? Are you a jelly bean nose?"
She came into the living room cooing over a ball of fluff in her cupped hands. She always did have a penchant for kittens.
"Maddy, I think you've identified who is, in fact, a jelly bean nose. Can you come over here and hold this for a second?" I said and held out the trowel to her as I tried to wobble down the step ladder.
She shifted the kitten into one hand and took the trowel from me with her other hand, giving me a fleeting peck on the cheek.
"If I had known how useful you were going to be around here, I would have adopted you much sooner," she said and winked at me. I playfully slapped her ass.
"Watch out, I'm not completely tame yet," I said, and wiped away some sweat with my forearm.
"Well, you have just over two hours till we have to leave." She glanced at her watch. "How's the speech coming along?"
She looked radiant today. When she got really busy, really distracted with playing with the dogs or when she came back from a long walk, her hair always went a little crazy, sending golden brown filaments all over her head that, in the right light, looked like a crown.
I peeled off my shirt and started for the shower.
"No speech. I'm just going to speak from the heart, just like you said I should," I smiled. She lifted an eyebrow at me and smiled doubtfully. I cleared my throat and pretended to be on a podium, addressing the kitten in her hands.
"Gentlemen, there is no time for speaking delicately. We are soldiers, so let's start by speaking honestly, before anything else. Before we can be strong for others, let's be strong for ourselves. Can we dig deep to be face our own enemies first, our own fears, our own monsters and terrorists within?" I said, doing my best to come across as a serious orator, leaning in to the little creature purring in her hands. It mewed. I nodded seriously.
"It's no longer a question of psychology. PTSD isn't something that strikes, like a cold virus, just at random. It is a natural and obvious reaction to atrocities that no person should ever be forced to face. PTSD is not something to be medicated, to push away. It's something to be listened to. Trauma is a sign that no matter how dark times have been for you, you are still alive. Alive and kicking. Anger is a gift. Fear is a gift..."
The kitten mewed again; cutting me off of the part of my speech I had worked hardest on. She smiled broadly at me and giggled, then put the kitten down. We both watched it scamper off.
A lot can change in a year.
An old house can become new. Bruises and welts can heal. And with patience, the black haze in my heart was lifting, evaporating off, molecule by molecule. It had started with a small blog, and then a book, and now I was speaking at six different places all over the country, addressing others like me, those men who had carried around dark hearts for too long.
I headed for the shower but she playfully caught my arm and pulled me towards her.
"Hey, you can't just parade around here half naked like that and expect to get away with it."
I kissed her, smiling.
"Hot Guy Six Actual, I repeat Hot Guy Six Actual, do you read? This is Mad Dog Delta, requesting permission to grope, sir, over."
She was so cute when she got like this. And she always, always messed it up. I pressed my bare chest against her and drew in a deep breath of her smell. All warm soap and perfume and the faint whiff of kitten.
"Roger that, Mad Dog, we are Oscar Mike and ready to rendezvous at approximately," I lifted her wrist to look at her watch, "fifteen hundred hours, do you copy?"
"Roger that!" she giggled and leaned in for a kiss.
She collapsed into me and our hungry mouths met. We had already made love once this morning, but when she got in this mood, there was no quenching that appetite of hers. The woman I loved had a lot of broken appliances in her life. And she was sexually ravenous. For both of her needs, I obliged happily.
She was my suburban Disney princess, nursing to health all the broken, ugly animals nobody wanted, including me. More than any soldier I had met in my short and tortured military career, Maddy had a capacity for pain that defied logic. She swallowed it, smiled, and still found the guts to look sweetly and kindly at the world. She had a strength that took my breath away. And as I quickly peeled off her clothes, for the second time that day, I was reminded that it wasn't just her strength that left me breathless.
My hands melted over her warm, inviting flesh and she moaned and sighed, our bodies slipping easily into the now-familiar rhythms. I wanted to share it with everyone. I wanted to tell everyone how the curve of her hip had healed me. How salvation had arrived in her lips and her deft little fingers and her smile. At the talk this evening I was going to tell the men about the prison of the mind, and how freedom was scarier than any jail, about how the wounds we inflicted on ourselves were deeper than any the enemy could inflict on us.
But the secret was simpler than that.
Breath to breath, skin to skin, pain to pain, Maddy had taught me something strange and yet completely ordinary.
The real lesson I had learnt was this: every good thing that has ever happened in this world is because of women like Maddy. Not in a fancy, fluffy, mystical sense ...but in a plain, everyday way.
Whatever is beautiful and transformed and good in this world, follow it. You will find it eventually leads back to some sweet, unassuming woman in a run-down suburban house filled with cats.
Every thread of forgiveness, everything that was once bad but is now good, follow it, and you will find it starts in a messy kitchen, folded in the warm hands of a kind woman.

- THE END -














Wrecked & Yours











Blurb

When the ship went under, I acted fast, and I did what I had to.

Now we were stuck in the middle of nowhere... and the worst was yet to come.

I'm not sure what brought Ellie storming into my life, but us coming together was no accident.

Looking back, I guess I always had a suspicion that there was something fated about those three strange days we spent together, and about the chain reaction afterwards that brought us both square into one another's lives.

From the moment I saw her, I knew that my life was going to change in a big way.
I had no idea just how big...

Chapter 1 - Anthony
That's a filthy habit," I say and make sure she sees the kink in my eyebrows.
"Well, then it'll keep all my other filthy habits company, won't it?" she said, and gave me a defiant smile. It was our standard in-joke. Our already-a-married-couple routine that I could never admit actually irritated the hell out of me. She blew a band of smoke off to the side and let her lips stay pouted.
"Reckless behavior is cute when you're a teenager, Ellie, but not so much at our age," I said at her attempt to be funny. She scowled, stubbed the cigarette out and flopped restlessly down onto the bed.
"Unpacked already?" I asked.
"Nah, I'll do it later."
I had already told myself that I would let little things like this pass. Any marriage needs to be able to survive things like this. Any marriage must have compromise. And me grinning and bearing the fact that Ellie sometimes behaved like an overgrown 5-year-old was just one of those compromises.
"Ok, well, just don't leave it too late," I said. Then she gave me that look. I decided to be the better man and let it go. We were here to have fun, after all. We were here on a vacation. If she needed to get stuff like this out of her system, then fine, let her do it. She was only 25. Young in a sense, sure. But old enough.
I wasn't some kind of monster; I understood her need to still get out there and experience the world. Hell, I was even paying for it. A two-week luxury holiday on a cruise ship that she had jokingly called a 'farewell to her old life'. Look, I'm a grown man, so I pretended at the time that that didn't sting. But I had to be realistic, too. Ellie was the perfect woman, in every way. But there was one glaring problem that needed to be resolved before we committed to one another properly, and if we didn't resolve it on this little vacation, then I wasn't sure what other options we had.
The agreement was that she got to let her hair down a little before the wedding and I got a few more months to save for the house down payment the following year. Fine. But I still couldn't escape the feeling that with this vacation we had both quietly put each other on probation. I would be looking to see if she was truly willing to take our marriage seriously and actually had it in her to be a mother and wife, and she would be ...well, that part wasn't as clear to me yet.
I lifted a pile of folded shirts from my bag and carefully carried them over to the cupboard. She was rolling around on the bed, getting everything badly crinkled. Now she had a brochure in her hand that she had fished from the nightstand, and was looking at it with interest.
"Oh look, salsa!" she squealed.
"No way," I said, placed the shirts neatly down and turned to face her.
She was grinning.
"Oh come on, please? Look, they have this fun class this evening, we can go. It says it's fine for beginners... it's at 8, come on let's go!"
"But I can't dance," I said and started packing my trousers away.
"But that's the point! They teach you. It says here that afterwards it's just a normal party and you dance what you've learnt and have fun," she said, kicking her legs up like a schoolgirl.
"Even worse," I grumbled. This time she didn't have to give me a look.
"Sorry, sorry, you're right, it's just ...can we try something else maybe? Something less nerve-wracking? I swear I saw a wine tasting thing, what about that?"
She sighed and flipped through the glossy brochure.
"You know, if I'm going to give up a vice for this trip, the least you could do is pick one up."
I smiled. She really was a pretty woman.
"Ok, ok, fine."
I took a deep breath, closed the cupboard door and sat next to her on the bed. It was just after 5. On the one hand, I was almost certain a dance class would be unbearably awkward and embarrassing for everyone involved. But on the other, it might prove enough of a distraction this evening so we didn't have to ...have sex.
Don't get me wrong, sex with Ellie is lovely. She's the perfect woman, in that regard, and I have no complaints. But I was tired. It had been a long drive over to the harbor and a lot of stress boarding and unpacking. I just wanted to relax now.
"Do we need to wear any special footwear?" I said and leant forward to give her a peck on her forehead.
"So that's a yes?" she laughed and sprang off the bed. Christ, I hated when she was like this. Treating me like I was the designated anti-fun ogre, when in truth, she was the one who forced me into that role because without fail, she was unwilling to commit to a damn thing in this world, and follow through with it.
"Of course. We're on vacation, aren't we?" I said, and jumped up to do a little impromptu salsa twirl in our room.
I let her fuss over me and kiss my head and dance around the room a little, hands linked to mine. She was one of those women that actually looked completely different depending on whether she smiled or not. When she laughed, her whole face opened up and glowed. Her eyes were a soft, hazy green, like sea glass, and her hair was that kind of grey-blonde that looked like a stronger color that had just been through a few washes. I loved seeing her flat, cold face light up like that. When I proposed to her, I told her that I would gladly make that my life's purpose: to make her smile. And I meant it.
Ellie had a troubled past, and she was still learning that not every pleasure had to nearly kill her to be worth pursuing... but I digress. I had promised her that if she agreed to quit smoking for these two weeks, I'd quit 'criticizing' the other dozen bad habits she had. I didn't want to rush her. I wanted her to see the value of personal growth for its own sake. I would give her time, and I'd give her all the opportunity she needed. And after she realized that an empty existence of drinking and bingeing and smoking weren't as satisfying as she thought, I'd be there, waiting for her to start a proper life together.
I walked around the room and took inventory.
"If this room was just in a regular hotel, they'd never be able to charge what they do," I said and looked down at the complimentary toiletries on the counter.
"But it's not in a regular hotel," she said. "It's floating in the middle of the ocean."
I peeked around the bathroom wall to see her fish out a sundress and leave the rest of her bag crumpled and unpacked, right in the middle of the bed.
"Fair enough," I said and went to poke my head out the tiny round window. But there was the truth right there: Ellie's spontaneous ocean liner adventure came with a cost. Nearly 50% extra, from my quick calculations, and for a room that showed no signs of having more than one power outlet.
I walked into the main room again and saw her standing expectantly, stripped down to her bra and panties and holding the sundress in her hands. She smiled at me smiling.
"That's ...that's very pretty. Did I buy you that?" I asked. She did a slow twirl.
"Nope, I bought it especially for our trip..." she said, and sauntered up to me. I placed gentle hands over her soft curves and leaned in for a kiss.
"As you can see, though, I didn't quite lose all my Christmas weight so I just had to bring my fat rolls along for a vacation, too!"
I pulled her in close, gave her neck a kiss and smiled.
"Shh, that's my fiancé you're talking about"
She was right of course. She had put on a few pounds with the stress of the last year, but I didn't care. In fact, I loved the womanly softness the extra weight gave her hips and belly. It'll sound awful, but there was something deeply satisfying about knowing that she was finally eating properly, that she was well-fed. I wanted her to relax and let me take care of her.
Her face was lit up with that big smile again. She really did love going on 'adventures'. She stood up on her tip toes and leaned in for a deep kiss. I placed a tender hand at the base of her skull and cradled her there, sharing a sweet, silent moment with her.
"We should go out on deck and have a look at those little shops we saw coming in," I said, smoothing down her hair.
"I don't care about the little shops," she grinned, and tried to kiss me again. I laughed.
"What about having an adventure, hm? What about all those activities you wanted to do?"
"Fuck the activities," she said and snaked her hands along my sides, a devilish look on her face.
"That's no way for a lady to speak, where are your manners?" I teased.
"Fuck manners," she said naughtily. "And fuck me..."
Here she grabbed my hips and pulled me hard against her crotch, grinding into me. Ok. Fine. Sex and salsa. I did say I would compromise, I guess. I leaned in for another kiss and let her unbutton my trousers.
Her greedy little tongue kissed me absentmindedly as her hands worked to peel my clothing off. I stood, letting her do her thing. I plonked her bag off the bed and lay down, beckoning her to join me. But she didn't. Instead, she gave her hair a flick and started to wiggle her hips a little, stripper style. It wasn't our usual thing, but we were on holiday, I guess. I leant my head back into my hands and watched her with a smile. She peered at me from out under a lock of hair, then slinked off her bra and then her panties.
Ellie had the perfect breasts. They were the softest, fullest things in the universe, smooth and pink and perfect and so plump on the bottom they were nearly spherical.
I smiled.
"Baby, you don't have to do this..."
"I know," she said quickly, and ran her hands up and down her body.
She could easily see the effect this had on me. Women like Ellie have learnt that they need to degrade themselves to be loved, but I would teach her that none of this stuff was necessary. Her body was beautiful and pure just the way it was. Besides, I didn't like thinking about where she had learnt to do any of this stuff in the first place.
"Stop teasing and get over here," I growled.
She giggled as I pulled her down to the bed and kissed her, my hand finding its way down between her milky thighs. She was already a little wet. My fingers stroked gently around that sweet little slit, before going in a little deeper, to those places I knew made her moan the loudest. She grew wetter. I will never understand why our standard sex routine was supposed to suddenly become something more magical simply because we made love on a different bed, but I could see how quickly she was responding to me, so, I guess it was worth coming all the way out here.
After she was completely wet and receptive, I lay back and let her hop on top of me, and I gently slid my cock into her, watching the expression on her face twitch and change as her hips lowered to take all of me in. We had been together a good few years, but I never got tired of that feeling. All her weight relaxed fully on to my groin, she smiled broadly and began to swivel her hips, her clit playing against the base of my cock. I held her hips and smiled back up at her. This was still one of my favorite ways of making her smile.
She arched her back and let her hair tumble down her back, the tips grazing against my fingertips. I squeezed and rolled her full ass cheeks in my hands and let her ride me. This was our favorite position, the one that always made her come, no matter what. But as for me...
"You OK, baby...?" she breathed into my ear.
"I'm good," I said. She just shouldn't ask. I hated it when she fucking asked. Everything was already half over once she asked.
She let her head fall back again and groaned. I could feel inside how her body was tightening up to an orgasm, and I dutifully lifted my hips up into her to stroke her off the edge. She came easily, but quietly. She froze on top of me, clawed a little at my chest and then, once her breathing came to normal again, she glanced down at me and smiled.
"Mmm..."
"Was that good?" I said and twirled my hips against her, still deep inside.
"Uh huh," she said, nibbled her lower lip and then started grinding again.
"You wanna keep going?"
"Uh huh."
I could feel myself going limp inside her, but I picked up the pace and drove the tip of my cock deep up and into her. I felt the shudder as it travelled down her spine. Perching up on the balls of her feet, she spread her hands wide over my chest and balanced there, lowering just a few inches at a time down onto me again, stroking my cock with each up thrust and sliding slowly back down onto it again. It was hot. She was hot. But it just wasn't working.
"Baby? You OK?" she said, and glanced down.
I grabbed her and pulled her off. Asking like that, with that particular tone of voice, totally killed the mood, but looking down at me like I was some injured puppy really sealed the deal.
"I'm good, I'm fine, just tired," I said, and guided her to lay next to me. My hands slipped between her thighs again, hoping at least another orgasm for her would take the attention off of me. She had a concerned little frown on her face, and reached out her hand to stroke my brow. Now that was what I found the most infuriating of all. Not that my cock chose the worst possible times to stop working. Not the agonizing stress of it all. But the pity. I gently pushed her hand away.
"Just tired baby, really," I said and pushed a smile. She smiled back and tried to act casual.
"What about you though?" I said and tried to glide my fingers back over that now juicy spot between her legs.
She shrugged.
"Don't worry, baby, I'm good" she said and curled up against me. "That was nice though," she said. For some reason, those words seemed to burn the most. I said nothing. After a few moments, she sighed loudly and got up, smoothed her hair out and rummaged around for her underwear. She was just going to put it all back on again. Without even taking a shower. The same bra and panties she had just been wearing.
"Shall we head out?" she said with a simple smile. "I'll just get my shoes."
I watched as she flitted around the room with this and that. I made a mental note to complain about the size of this room to management later. That the bathroom was no way what the online photos suggested it would be. And that the tiny little round window was actually in the worst possible position, just sitting stupidly right over the bed; why would anybody design a room like that? And then have the nerve to call it 'luxury' and charge a fortune to stay in it?
"Ellie, I'm going to hang back a little, OK? I'm kind of beat."
She turned around and glared at me, one earring still in hand.
"But you said you'd come."
"I know, I'm sorry, I'm just not feeling it."
"And the salsa?"
"Yeah, I'll join you later, baby. Maybe I just need a quick nap or something..."
She didn't do much to hide her disappointment. In fact, her face was rapidly losing its glow.
"Oh please, you're not going to come later," she said, slumping. And just like that the spell of our brand new vacation probation was over. It always came down to this: she wanted to go this way; I wanted to go that way.
"What? Of course I will. I'll join you later. You just head out and take a took around and--"
"You're just stalling. If you don't want to come, don't. Nobody's forcing you," she said and stabbed in her earring.
"Ellie, please let's not fight..." I said, and threw my hand over to cover my eyes. At least the damn bed was comfortable; I'd give them that.
"I'm done fighting," she snapped. "But I don't want you to come if you don't want to come. Just forget it. I'll go alone."
I groaned. We hadn't even spent 24 hours on this stupid holiday yet and we were already bickering.
She quickly blustered out the entrance and closed it behind her. It made a soft pffft as the air cylinder on top let the heavy door fall back into place slowly.
I had decided. The room wasn't romantic or adventuresome. It was cheap. It was tacky. I looked at the mess on the floor with a sigh. Ellie's things, strewn all over. I knelt down and started to unpack her things for her, and carefully order them in the cupboard, next to mine.
Chapter 2 - Ellie
I stormed up and down the decks for a while. Every time we had an argument like this, things became clearer and clearer to me. It was hard to pin down at first. Hard to even notice. But I was beginning to finally understand.
It's not that Anthony was super responsible and serious. It's not just that I was used to high excitement and he was the more sober, more rational, more sane one of us and I just needed to adjust. It wasn't even because of his anxiety. No. As I stomped up and down those boards outside under the open, fading blue of the sky, the fact was inescapable: it was because Anthony and I didn't please one another. That and the fact that he was a controlling bully.
I reached the far end of the deck and turned around to do another lap after glancing at the sky. It was easy to see night coming on here, floating far out in the open sea. The long horizon was still packed with bunched clouds, but high overhead it was clear and starting to darken to deep blue. The first year I met Anthony, I didn't notice how much work it was to simply enjoy his company. All of the second year, I felt like we were waiting for him to finish studying for the bar exam until we were allowed to have fun. The third year, we had learnt to schedule the pleasurable activities in on a shared calendar.
And now we were here. He probably thought that he could just optimize by giving me one good holiday every few years so I'd shut up about our relationship the rest of the time. That it would make me forget about all the other little things. The passive aggressive curfew on week nights. Him helpfully suggesting I give up eating carbs every three months. The hidden camera in our home that he claimed was for my 'safety'.
I crossed my arms against the growing chill and walked on. In a few hours, the place would be buzzing with parties. I was here on this 'pleasure cruise' and my fiancée was taking a nap from the sheer effort of forcing himself to sleep with me.
I tried to ignore the smiling waiters standing outside a freshly laid out buffet on the beck below ours. I tried to claw onto the remnants of the good mood I had boarded with, but the more I walked on, the more my mood soured. I'd just stay out all night, that's what. I'd stay out until I felt like a living human being again, till I was sure I at least had a pulse again.
I turned around and paced back again and fumed some more.
It wasn't just about the sex, no matter what he said. He always tried to bring it down to that. To shut down everything because he honestly thought that I cared about him not getting it up once in a while as much as he did. It didn't matter how many times I'd tell him that none of that bothered me at all, he still sulked. It was all so exhausting. I was exhausted.
And I was bored.
I reached into my handbag and pulled out a secret cigarette. Pleased it hadn't been crushed on transit, I placed it on my lower lip and thought for a moment. Then I lit it, took a long, easy drag and blew the smoke out into the darkness. The agreement was that he would try to enjoy himself with me, just for once, and that he forget about work for a second, and just be with me. And in return I wouldn't smoke or embarrass us both or get into one of my 'moods'. Well, if he wasn't going to honor his part of the deal, then why should I honor mine?
I took another drag.
Just as I was about to blow another band of smoke, something knocked me hard from behind and sent me staggering forward and bumping clumsy onto the railings. I watched as my cigarette flipped free of my fingers and went floating silently down into the darkness below.
Damn. I spun to see a wincing face peeking off the railings with me.
"What the hell?" I shouted.
"Aw shit, I'm so sorry!" he said. He was a young guy, maybe just a few years younger than me, and he was standing in front of me, his hands outstretched in apology. He had closely cropped hair and was wearing dark jeans and a tight black shirt rolled up over his biceps. He was so tall I needed to lift my gaze form the center of his chest to look him square in the eye. He immediately went over to the railings and peered over with a look of horror on his face.
"Man overboard, huh?" he said.
He looked kind of rough. A little dangerous. Maybe even drunk. When he lifted his face to mine again, I could see that his eyes were an icy cold blue. Clean looking, even. The only part of him that looked clean, mind you.
"That was my last cigarette, you know," I said drily, and folded my arms across my chest again. He turned around to look at me apologetically, but with that stupid smile still playing on his lips. He put his hand to his heart.
"Honest mistake ma'am, really, I'm sorry. I feel your loss." Then he started patting down his pockets but flashed me another sheepish smile. "Seems I've left my own back inside. Can I fetch you another? Will you just... OK, you wait here and I'll go back in and get you another cigarette and then we'll be even, OK?"
I found it hard to share his excitement. He took one look at my grumpy face, licked his lower lip and smiled as though he had come up with the most amazing plan ever.
"OK, OK, fine, two cigarettes, but that's my final offer," he said and grinned.
Yup, definitely drunk.
I waved him off.
"It's OK, really. I need to quit smoking anyway. It's a filthy habit."
His eyes twinkled.
"Well, of course it is, aren't all the best habits?"
I couldn't help but laugh. He smiled. He was clearly a brute, a big stupid bro, already tipsy so early in the evening ...but he was kind of good looking.
"Look, you can quit anytime, right? Quit later. You're basically owed one cigarette anyway, so quit after one more. Makes sense. In fact, it'll be my honor to know that the last cigarette you had on this earth was mine."
He had his hand on his heart again. He was the kind of guy you bump into on the dance floor in a club. The guy wearing too much cologne, talking too loudly, and dancing too close. But he was cute. A little sketchy, but cute.
"Last two, you mean," I said with a shy smile.
"Two, yeah, absolutely," he said and returned the smile.
"OK, fine."
There was something contagious about his smile, which was irritating since I had already decided that Anthony had ruined my whole evening.
"OK! You wait here, don't go anywhere. Look, I'll leave my ice bucket with you as a guarantee."
"Your...?"
"My ice bucket," he said and suddenly brandished a small steel cup of ice cubes at me. I hadn't noticed when he set it behind him after he bumped into me. He thrust it into my hands with mock seriousness and I took it.
"But ...why ...let me just come with you?" I said, and handed the bucket back to him.
He grinned.
"Older ladies are always so forward, I love it," he said and did that thing with his lips again.
I scoffed.
"Older lady?"
He looked chastised.
"It's only ...aw shit, I said a stupid thing, didn't I? It's a party, I don't think you'd ...let's just say it's not the place for, uh, for nice women like you," he said, grin still plastered all over his face.
Though I was trying as hard as I could, it seemed hard to really get mad at him. At worst, he was just some kind of idiot. A hot idiot, but still. I know that I had left my party days behind me. And I know I was about to throw my life away marrying a man who asked me if there was any history of genetic diseases in my family on the second date. But god, was I already in 'older lady' territory? He had to be joking. I was 25.
"Well, older ladies like me have seen everything, so don't worry, I'll pretend not to be too shocked," I said, rolled my eyes and turned to walk in the direction he had been running. Would he ever stop smiling? He seemed to hesitate to put his hand on my arm and stop me.
"No, I mean, I'm serious, you can't come with me," he said.
I lifted my eyebrows at him. He looked like the naughty, freckled kid at the back of every classroom who pulls on the girls' pigtails and never does his homework. Except with muscles. And ...an ice bucket? So what if I was dead curious about this 'party'? So what if I was technically here with my fiancée, and that salsa was starting in a few minutes? He was just a guy. And it was just two cigarettes.
He thrust his hand out at me.
"Todd," he said. "Todd McGregor. Navy SEAL."
"You're a Navy SEAL?" I asked, stunned. He was laughing.
"Well ...kind of. Almost. I mean, not really. I'm a trainee. We're actually just on our way to our buds training in Coronado, when we get to California."
"Buds?"
"Yeah, BUDS. Stands for Basic Underwater Demolition Seal training," he said, chest puffed.
"Oh."
"Yeah."
"And a bunch of you are going? You're having a party?"
He looked coy, but at least we were walking again. I hadn't semi-flirted with anyone like this in a very, very long time. It felt ...strange.
"Yeah, a bunch of us, you could say that. We're done with the prep school and now it's the big leagues. Twenty-four weeks of pure hell and if I'm one of the lucky few, I'll survive and get to do it all over again for my troop training," he said and smiled warmly.
I had to admit, being a SEAL trainee bumped him up a little in my esteem. Suddenly, the sketchy brush cut hair looked a little less Nazi and a little more clean cut military man.
"So, they'll be training you to ...fight and stuff? Are you going to be running around in combat boots and like, doing obstacle courses?" I said and laughed. I realized too late that I sounded way, way meaner than I intended. He thought for a moment and then smiled easily at me all the same.
"Well honestly, me? Going on my track record? I'll probably be hiding out and crying in the bathrooms."
"No way! You look pretty tough to me. I bet you could do all kinds of impressive things." Here he stopped walking, took a good look at me, gave me a mischievous smile and then carried on.
"Well, the spirit's willing, but the flesh, you know..." he said and gave me a wink. Butterflies kicked a little in my stomach. Yup. There was absolutely no mistaking that. He was definitely, positively, one hundred percent coming on to me. I could feel blood rush to my face as we approached a large door, behind which some dull, thumping music emanated.
"This is it? Your big secret party?"
The ice cubes rattles in the cup as he held it against his chest and nodded.
"You gonna invite me in or what?"
He looked embarrassed, and rubbed the back of his neck, unable to make eye contact.
"Well ...see ...hey, I didn't get your name."
"It's Ellie."
"Just Ellie?"
"Yeah just Ellie. Ellie King."
"Ok, well, Miss Ellie King, as you can see, notwithstanding the incident with your, uh, your cigarette, you can clearly see that I'm an upstanding civilian and a gentleman, however..." I was giggling at the ridiculous voice he had on, and the way he closed his eyes to enunciate. Oh, he was drunk all right. Maybe even a little more than drunk. "However I can't claim the same for my comrades who are, shall I say, feeling a little enthusiastic this evening..."
His icy blue eyes glinted in the darkness as the sounds of the cruise ship started to come alive all around us. Night had fallen and the chill in the air had settled.
"Well, fair is fair, buddy. If you make me wait any longer for my two cigarettes, I might just decide to make it three."
He held his hand over his mouth and pretended to be shocked.
"Miss, you do drive a hard bargain."
"Oh come on, let me in. I'm on vacation, I needed that cigarette, and you owe me a smoke break, fair and square."
He thought for a while, bit down on his fist and nodded solemnly.
"Can't argue with that" he said and put his hand on the door handle and paused. All at once, raucous cheers erupted from behind the door followed by peals of male laughter. Intriguing. He waited and tried not to smile as he gave me a stern look, unable to bring himself to open the door.
"I'm warning you ...this is not going to be pretty."
I laughed and reached for the door, and flung it open myself. It didn't escape my attention that I brushed against him as I walked inside, curious to see just how raucous a party could be that an old hag like myself shouldn't be allowed to even see it.
It was like those scenes in old Westerns where someone busts open the saloon doors, the honkey tonk stops playing and everyone swivels on their seats to give the newcomer the beady eye. It seemed to be a large, private conference room, done in the same style as all the rooms onboard but roomier, with all the chairs pushed far to the edges of the walls and the lights dimmed. About a dozen tall men, all shirtless, stopped to watch as I entered. The smell of alcohol was thick on the air, and I swear, I could almost smell them, too. I quickly turned to look behind me, and there was Todd, awkward smile still on his face and his hand still on the door.
"Hey, assholes," he said, and shut the door, sending in a waft of fresh air that cut through the smoke cloud inside. "This is my friend Ellie. Don't eat her, OK? She just needs some smokes."
The music was turned back up and I took a few steps toward the crowd, which now parted a little to give me a glimpse of one of them bent over the table, pants pulled down, ass in the air, beer still in his hand. I couldn't help smiling at the absurdity of the situation.
"For Christ sake, Adam, get up," one of them laughed and kicked his foot. None of them were in any kind of uniform, but they were still all of a type: all tall, all broadly built over the chest and shoulders, with the same closely cropped haircuts as Todd. The oblivious one bent over the table twisted around to see what the fuss was. A cigarette clung to his lower lip and he took a moment to register my presence, then he quickly staggered to his feet and yanked up his trousers again, giving me a full view of his naked body and everyone else in the room a good laugh. A guy, dark haired and heavier set, was standing over him with something curious in his hand.
"What are you...?" I asked.
They all looked like a bunch of school boys busted lighting shoplifted firecrackers behind the bicycle sheds. The entire room buzzed with a kind of good-natured merriment, only the presence of so much exposed skin gave the whole thing a dangerous air, like I had stepped in just as the party was about to get out of hand. The stocky guy held up a glowing piece of metal and showed it carefully to me. I joined the group and had a closer look. It seemed to be a series of artfully bent and knotted paper clips, twisted around to crudely form a wonky anchor shape, with a little tale for a handle, which he held between his forefinger and thumb. The metal was glowing a menacing orange.
"This? Oh this is nothing. Just that it's Adam's turn to pledge allegiance to our squad. If he can stop flapping his dick at the guests for a second," he said and waved the twisted metal around a little. The room was filled with indistinct laughing and cheering.
Jesus. It was only just gone sundown and I was pretty sure these people had been drinking for hours.
"Care to do the honors? Miss ...what did you say your name was?" the stocky guy said, and handed me the glowing metal.
"It's Ellie."
"Well, Ellie, Adam here would just about cream his pants if a pretty girl like you were the one to do it, so go on, he'd love you forever, and I sure as hell am tired of looking at his hairy ass," he said and laughed loudly, then gave Adam a playful slap on the rump. Everyone joined him in roaring with laughter, then Adam bashfully bend forward again into the same position, naked ass turned upwards, cigarette still miraculously clinging to his lower lip.
Everyone cheered.
Now I understood. It was a brand. I looked down at the twisted metal in my hand, unsure of whether to laugh or wince in horror. I saw a few dribbling candles perched on the table in front of me. The dozens of empty beer bottles strewn everywhere. It was some sort of hazing. Some drunken bonding ritual. This was the kind of thing you saw on the news, when kids died doing some dumb shit in a fraternity and then everyone wrung their hands at the state of the youth. The metal still felt hot in my hand. Everyone was watching for my reaction. I looked down at the pasty butt cheeks of the drunk boy in front of me. Approximately ten minutes ago I had felt trapped in the stuffy waiting room called 'being engaged' and now it was like I had stumbled in on another world. It was awful. And kind of gross. And really, really immature.
Then why did it suddenly feel like my vacation was finally getting started?
I smiled, handed the thing back and shrugged.
"No thanks. Anyway, I think it's gone cold."
"Aw, Ellie girl, no! And I was all strapped in and ready to go! Don't leave me hanging," said Adam, and flashed me the brightest, naughtiest smile. It wasn't my imagination. They really were all hot.
"Bend over buddy, I'm going in," said the stocky guy again and hovered metal over bare skin.
"Aw, fuck, Tom, I swear to god I'm gonna beat your ass if you dawdle with it. Just put it on and take it off again, don't draw it out, don't fucking linger..."
The crowd erupted into shouts and jaunts.
"This is going to hurt you more than it'll hurt me," the stocky guy said. The definition on his abs was truly astonishing. He was baby faced from the neck up, and vaguely human shaped tree stump from the neck down.
"Pipe down, or I'm just using the candle as is," said the first guy, who got to work again passing the metal over the flame till it glowed orange again. I felt a hand touch the small of my spine, and turned to see Todd. He gestured his head to the side and I followed him to the back of the room, where he crouched down and rummaged in his jacket till he had found a box of cigarettes.
"Let's get out of here before they get any more ideas, huh?" he said and gave me a saucy wink. While the crowd knotted around the spectacle, Todd and I slunk out again, leaving the bucket of ice on the table and quietly closing the door behind us. My back against the closed door, I took a deep breath of fresh outside air and found myself laughing.
"What the hell is going on in there?" I asked, still giggling, when I noticed for the first time that we were holding hands. I quickly yanked free and stopped laughing.
"Let's go for a walk before they realize we're gone," he said.
Seemed like a good idea.
We walked off quickly down the corridor and back to the stern, and with swift fingers he pulled out a cigarette, lit it with a match, flicked the burnt match away and then gently handed me the cigarette. It wasn't the kind of chivalry I was used to, but it thrilled me all the same. I took it and we walked on briskly.
"Very brave of you, running away before your friends could mutilate your butt cheeks," I said, still laughing under my breath. It had been a long time since I had been in a party that wild, and all at once I realized that even though I hadn't thought of it for years, I missed that kind of thing. The camaraderie. The energy.
"Before?" he said and widened his eyes. I looked at him and laughed.
"Oh my god. No way. They already...?"
He made a hilarious puppy dog face and pouted his lower lip out. I squealed with laughter.
"No! They already marked you! That's the worst thing I've ever heard," I said, but I couldn't stop laughing at the face he was making.
"Sadly so," he said, and I had trouble tearing my gaze away from how twinkly his eyes seemed out here in the open air of the deck.
"On your ...on your butt?" I asked and took another drag.
He said nothing.
"Oh my god, you're actually blushing!" I said and poked his ribs.
"Shut up. No I'm not. I don't know what you're talking about."
We reached the end of the ship and came to rest at the railings again.
"Come on, show me."
He snapped his neck so quickly to look at me I thought he'd give himself whiplash.
"Haven't you seen enough bare butt for today...?" he said and took a drag, then flicked the stump over the edge and into the water.
"I want to see. I'll trade you a cigarette."
"You don't have any!"
"Yeah, but you still owe me one, so..."
"He was laughing hard now. A good-natured, easy laugh that did strange things to the pit of my stomach. This guy was clearly a charmer. I bet he was the kind of guy that bedded a new woman every night. And yet, I was finding it hard to resist laughing along with him.
Then I saw him. A few yards ahead, walking in the crowd in the opposite direction: Anthony. He was dressed. Looking for me.
Shit.
I took one last hurried puff, tossed the cigarette overboard and gave Todd a nervous smile.
"Hey, um, I have to go," I said, nervously noticing that Anthony hadn't spotted me yet.
"Go? But what about my enthralling butt cheeks?"
I playfully slapped his arm. "I'm serious. I have a salsa class to go to. I'll um ...I'll see you around," I said and gestured to the ship. He looked a little hurt but nodded, his smile fading somewhat.
I ran up to Anthony and his face lit up a little when he saw me. Mercifully, he seemed not to have noticed whom I was talking to.
"You came after all," I said. I hadn't put in nearly enough enthusiasm into that line, and it came across as the admonishment it was. But he nodded anyway and kissed me.
"Ellie, have you been...?"
I frowned.
"Just one, god, yes. But I was desperate. It was just one."
His expression was so harsh I recoiled from it.
"Look, Anthony, if we're getting snippy with each other, let's talk about all the whiskey you put away before we came out here."
He looked stunned. It was a low blow, I admit. But it was also true.
We walked on in silence to the room where the salsa class would be held.
I was the one with the filthy habit, you see, and he was the one who was under stress and needing relaxation. I was undisciplined. Untidy. Forgetful and immature. He was just a grown man enjoying his superior taste in fine spirits. It felt like a constant effort to remind myself that he had flaws too, that despite what he said, I wasn't so bad. And unlike smoking, Anthony's drinking hurt more than just him. I tried not to think about all that now. We were on vacation. He wouldn't do anything, not with the walls as thin as they were and not with people to see any black eyes in the morning...
And so that was my evening. Anthony actually decided to come out and live a little just like I had wanted. Too bad the thing I felt like I wanted suddenly seemed like the worst thing in the whole world.
Chapter 3 - Todd
I've spent 20-day hour days running, swimming, and hauling my carcass through combat conditioning that at the time felt worse only for the fact that you got to survive it, sleep 4 hours and then repeat the same thing the next day.
I can do 37 pushups in a minute and can hold my breath under water for twice the time a normal man can. I can sleep on rocks and wake up ready to load a rifle, rappel down a mountain and disarm anyone I find on the other side. I was in the early stages of conditioning my body to be an all-terrain, all-purpose, finely tuned human machine capable of surviving and thriving in extreme combat situations.
But holy fuck if I still couldn't handle my alcohol.
I groaned and decided not to open my eyes yet. My head wasn't pounding so much as splitting at the sides where I felt sure my brain was trying to escape me and the abuse I'd put it through. My mouth was dry. I felt hollow inside, and dizzy even though I was lying down. And the burn. Dear god, the burn on my ass.
I groaned again, peeled open my eyelids and clawed at the bed sheets for support as I tried to raise my head. Even lifting my cheek off the pillow for a second gave me a sickening lurch in my guts so that I was sure I'd throw up if I moved again. I collapsed back down and squeezed my eyes tight. The light felt bright enough to be the sun exploding on my retina, but in all probability, it was only something like late morning, maybe 10:00 AM at most.
Digging deep, I hauled myself up, blinked hard and scratched the sleep from my eyes. I was in my room, half tangled in bed sheets. I was naked but still had one shoe on. A quick scan of my memory showed that my recollections of the past evening cut out sometime after I went back to the party with the squad.
I sat up straight.
The girl.
Now I remembered.
I looked down at my soft cock resting in my lap. I scanned the room. Nope. She hadn't come home with me. I stood and cracked my neck. She had been keen, but not that keen. Still, it was an entertaining thought.
Then I noticed the bathroom door was shut. I heard the toilet flush and the faint flow of water in the basin. I wracked my brain to think of who could be in there, and just as I was gearing up to imagine it might possibly be her, out stepped Charlie, slamming the door and standing before me in nothing but a white pair of men's boxer shorts.
"Fuck. It's you."
"Morning sunshine," she said. "Got your beauty sleep?"
She sidled over to the bedside table, scratched around at some things there and plucked up a burnt out joint and a lighter. Then she plopped down next to me, feet spread wide, smile even wider, and got to work lighting it up.
"Christ, can you not?" I groaned and slumped back down into the blankets.
The relationship between Charlie and I is kind of hard to explain. In fact, I'd like to not have to call it a 'relationship' at all. When she first enlisted with our group, she was one of three women who were all low-key gunning to be the 'first female SEALS' and all that shit. Since they opened the whole playing field up last year, a few women had tried but nobody had made it through yet. No biggie. Most men don't make it through either. Only Charlie seemed to take the whole thing personally, and had made it her full time life's mission to prove to everyone how wrong they were to think she couldn't do it. As far as I could tell, nobody hassled her even one bit, but she was always high strung, always looking to finish an argument nobody started, always lippy about something.
Anyway, we all thought she was gay, truly. The other two certainly were. But after they quit, she was the only one left and then she really went psycho. Don't get me wrong, Charlie is hardcore. I'd trust her with anything, she's solid, and I wouldn't pick a fight with her any day of the week. The rest of the troop felt the same way. But that didn't mean any of them wanted to risk treating her like a girl and ask her out or something.
I'm sorry, that's crude, but you see, things got difficult. Maybe she wanted to show that she was just one of the guys or something. I don't know why that meant she needed to sexually harass me 24/7, but hey, I'm a big boy, I guess I could take it. Funny thing is, she is kind of hot. Like, I can see it all there. The boxes are more than well ticked, if you know what I mean.
Through my gritty eyes I peered over at her on the bed and she just sat there, tits out, and you know, she was kind of pretty when she wasn't going all out with her grating GI Jane bullshit. She had this tight, hard belly and one of those belly buttons that go straight up and down, like a little cut. She had blonde, wiry curls that she always pulled back into tight braids and knotted at the base of her skull, but when she let it loose like this, you could almost forget what an annoying ball-breaker she could be.
"Want some?" she said and extended the lit stump to me. I groaned.
"Don't you ever sleep?"
She laughed.
"I'll sleep when I'm dead, baby." She took a puff, then killed the stump in a glass on the bedside table and started scrabbling around on the floor.
"Did you...?"
"Sleep in here last night? Sure did. That asshole Adam locked me out of my room and since your pansy ass was out cold, I came in here."
"Did we...?"
She snorted as she laughed.
"Baby, if I decide to take advantage of you in your sleep, you'll sure as hell know about it."
I was not in the mood for this shit. I stood again, clutching the sheets at my groin and staggering over to the mirror to take a look at my roasted backside.
"So stupid. So, so stupid. How could I be so fucking stupid?" I moaned as I stroked trembling hands over the blistered burn in the shape of an anchor on my butt cheek. It had swollen and now looked more like an upside-down mushroom. It had seemed hilarious the night before. Now the pain and stupidity of it all was sobering me up fast. Charlie tilted her head to ogle me and nodded her approval.
"Can't say it's an improvement, bud."
"Charlie? Can you just clear out of my room for a second? I just wanna sleep this off," I said and tried to fold myself back into my bed.
She looked a little perturbed, her hip cocked sharply to the side.
"Look," she said, a little snippy, "I didn't come around here looking for you, you know."
"Yeah, I know. Whatever, I'm just hung-over as hell."
"I'm serious, Todd, you can stop acting like I'm about to corner you any second. Way to dent a girl's ego."
My brain felt like it had been dry roasted, crumbled and poured back into my skull.
"Relax, would you Charlie? I never said anything."
"Your asshole friends are the ones who keep thinking it's a good idea to set us up, not me."
"Ok."
"Ok what? You don't have to be such a bitch about it. You know, any guy on the squad would kill for a chance to fuck the only remaining woman left on this year's enlisting."
I grit my teeth, sat up in bed and gave her a long stare.
"You know, dating isn't a martial art, Charlie. I'm allowed to not want to, you know."
She rolled her eyes as she threw on a tank top, without a bra underneath. She found her shoes and then turned to leave.
"I cannot believe I'm having such a dumb conversation," she muttered.
I couldn't either. Like I said, stuff between Charlie and me was weird, to put it mildly. She wasn't wrong either. There were at least three guys on the team I knew who would drop everything this second to even get a glimpse of those small, fierce little breasts of hers. But that didn't change anything for me. Maybe I'm not like most guys in this regard, but if it doesn't feel right, I just don't do it. And things with Charlie never, ever felt right. Charlie always seemed so angry. Always a little on edge. It would have been a funny thing to admit out loud, but I didn't like feeling like a conquest to her. I knew we had a history, but that was all a long time ago.
"Hey, don't be mad," I said as she opened the door to leave.
"I'm not mad, why would I be mad?" she said and looked down at me in bed.
"Just ...I'm just tired OK? I'll catch up with everyone later. We'll sit by the pool and stuff."
She nodded and silently closed the door. I tried to bury my head into the pillows and sleep again, but it was no use. I stood up, swallowed a painkiller and splashed my face with some cold water. Maybe the abomination on my ass would scab up and heal. These days didn't they have ways to fix stuff like that, with lasers or something?
I winced as I peeled on a fresh pair of shorts, then threw on a t-shirt, cracked my knuckles and gave the mess in the room one last look. It wouldn't look like it to anyone else, but this was my own personal form of luxury at the moment. Once I got started down my military career, order and cleanliness would become the norm. But for now, I was saying a final farewell to my old life and as it happened, that old life came with a lot of mess.
I rubbed my temple with my fingers and decided on my morning ahead: I'd find the guys, if any of them were awake, and head over for some breakfast and as many cups of fresh black coffee as I could get my hands on. Then I'd swim the rest of the day. That's it. They had dunked us into enough icy, salty water during our prep phase, and I had swum enough lengths now that I would be content with a little doggy paddle and a nap on a lilo, and I'd fight anyone who had something to say about it.
I locked up my room and went out for a walk. There couldn't have been a more perfect day. The air was so clear and blue it almost sparkled and the sun, even though it was still creeping up slowly in the sky, was already bright hot, its rays not hindered by a single cloud. The ship was a beauty, and most people were up and busy, settling beside the pool or taking a swim. I didn't want Charlie to be mad at me. I got it, really I did. I knew why she had to be tough and all that. What I didn't understand was why she was trying at all.
I would never have admitted it to anyone, but for me the Navy was ...the last resort. It was my safety net. I knew It was nothing to cry about, but I enlisted months ago because I just didn't know what else to do. I was tired of thinking. Tired of making decisions. Navy training is hard, no doubt about it. But not as hard as the alternative. I can carry shit and run and fight on barely any food and even less sleep. Frankly, it's all the other shit that stumps me. The navy was tough, but it was structured. When you were done carrying one load, they always had the next load lined up for you. In any case, Charlie didn't have to do any of that. Charlie was a woman. She was smart, and she had other options.
I walked all the way from my room, up a few flights and then onto the uppermost deck so I could get a better view of things. It might have been done up in chrome and gleaming white, but under all that this was a sophisticated ship. I hung over the bars and hoped the sea breeze would wash away my hangover. It was nothing but blue all above and blue all around.
Then I saw her. Sunbathing next to the pool, blue bikini top above, and blue bikini bottom below. It was perfect.
Instantly forgetting my day's plan and my pounding headache, I walked over to her deck chair and looked down at her, my man-shaped shadow covering her woman-shaped body and causing her to open her eyes and glance up at me. She lifted her sunglasses off her nose and, easy as you please, gave me a bright, sunny smile almost from ear to ear.
"Why, hello," she said.
Fuck. She was hotter than I remembered. I nodded and smiled.
"Catching some sun?" I asked, and pulled up a chair to sit beside her.
She pulled her glasses down again.
"Yup. It's what I'm here for! Good night last night?"
Right on cue we both exchanged glances and then started laughing. It was strange how easy it was to laugh with her.
"Sorry, sorry, I won't be such a pain in the ass about it," she said, and lifted her glasses again to give me some side eye.
"Haha, very funny. If I wasn't so hung-over I'd have a witty comeback for you, I swear."
"And I'm sure I would have been very impressed with it," she said without skipping a beat.
I did my best to look at her without looking. After weeks of prep training and slumming it with the gang, her body seemed almost alien to me.
So soft.
She had full, round breasts and a soft little circle of fat ringing her deep belly button. Her skin was milky white, its texture reminding me almost exactly of the smooth inside curves of a teacup. Last night she had seemed pretty. Kind of sweet. But now, in her bikini, it was kind of hard to ignore how distractingly feminine she was. She wasn't overweight, not by a long shot. In fact, in the bright morning sun I could see just how small she really was, how narrow her wrists were and how delicate the little notches in her collarbone. I tore my eyes away and fixed them ahead on the flat, sapphire blue ocean in front of us. I just had to remind myself that not every human female had a drum tight belly and a biceps from doing pull-ups with a two-hundred-pound marine clinging to their feet.
"Ok, so here's the plan. This evening there's a thing, like a fancy dress thing, and we're going to go and--"
"Wait, a thing?"
"Yeah, a thing."
"I'm sorry and which body part will they be disfiguring this time round?" she said and smiled sideways at me.
Had I really let this beautiful woman meet that hoard of thugs I called my troupe? Last night, her hair had seemed almost silvery. She had seemed sad, it was dark, and she sincerely looked a little ...grey. But now I could see it perfectly: she just had the weirdest shade of blonde hair. She was probably my age.
"It's not with the crew, don't worry."
"No?"
"No. This will just be you and I. No body parts mutilated. Unless you're into that kind of thing."
It was bold, I know. But success! She was laughing again, and then I was laughing. My head barely hurt at all anymore. Man, if I could just sit and laugh with this girl all day I'd call this whole trip an achievement.
"I, um ...that's really sweet, but I don't think that's a good idea," she said, her smile dimming.
"A good idea? Of course it's a good idea. I still owe you a cigarette anyway, remember? And maybe I'll even let you talk me into showing you my new body art."
She squirmed in her seat a little, laying her book down to cover her middle.
"Really, I can't," she said, taking her glasses off. Her eyes were like no-color. Just like a green that almost wasn't. It made me sad. Or maybe I was just sad because she seemed to be turning me down.
"It's my horrible butt again, isn't it?" I said, trying to funny, but this time her laugh was a little strained.
"Actually, I'm here with my ...boyfriend," she said, and watched my face to see my reaction.
Fuck. There's always a fucking boyfriend.
"Well, unless fancy dress parties are against his religion or something, bring him along!" I said. But she was still shaking her head.
"Not against his religion, no, but I don't think he'd be interested."
"Why not?" I tried to push the creeping sense of disappointment out of mind.
"Well ...he's a bit of a serious guy, and we're both just here to ...you know, relax."
I nodded.
"No I get it. I get it. Not everyone can handle the rigors of a full-scale fancy dress party."
She smiled warmly but her eyes looked sad again.
"I'm sorry. You actually seem really cool though..."
Immediately I was struck with the wild thought of what would happen if I just reached over right now, and just touched her. Just leaned forward, touched my lips to hers and then waited.
"Eh, you're not too bad yourself." My headache was back. I lay back down in my deck chair and reformulated my morning plan. "So, uh, where is your boyfriend anyway?"
"Sleeping, I think."
"Rough night, huh?"
"I wish. He actually went to bed early. But I guess he's been tired for a long time. He's a lawyer, you know, and they work such long hours, so I don't blame him..."
"A lawyer?"
"Yeah, it's really tough for him."
"Huh. And what do you do?"
She twisted around on her chair and faced me. I almost couldn't keep my eyes off the way her breasts and the softness around her belly softly dipped as she did this.
"Can we not talk about all that lame stuff? I'm on vacation," she said with a naughty smile.
I laughed.
"Yeah, you're... you're right. I always hate it when people ask that kind of thing, too."
"Yeah, let's just talk about something else. Something real."
"Something real?"
"Yeah ...I don't know," she said and stretched her legs out long like a cat and narrowed her eyes to the sun. "Like, don't you like how whenever you meet a new person, it's like you're meeting a new version of yourself? Like you see yourself how they see you, and it's as if you get a whole new personality. You can start again, you know? Ok, you probably think I'm just a crazy person."
"No, no, I understand exactly what you mean. Start again. I get it."
"You can try out being someone else, you know?"
I watched as families and couples walked the deck, a brigade of blow-up plastic and stripy towels and see-through sarongs. Tiny white caps of waves flitted far away on the sea, but too far away for anyone to care. The day was still as perfect as it started, and the breeze felt so silky against my skin. Why did she have to ruin everything by having a damn boyfriend?
"So ...maybe then you could pretend, just for now, that you don't have a boyfriend?" I said quietly. It was more than bold. It was insane. She'd walk off now for sure, or slap me or give me a scowl and call me scum. But she didn't. She lay motionless on the deck chair, her eyes soft and unfocused.
"To be honest, that might happen soon anyway. This trip was meant to be ...I don't know, a second chance for us. But I don't know anymore."
There was a full, easy silence for a moment.
"Hey, Ellie? It would be really cool if you joined me this evening. Jokes aside. And you can bring your guy as well if you like, or, you know ...not."
She smiled. It was a polite, nervous smile. But I could see through it. Her gaze lingered just a little too long on mine. Our eyes held contact for just a few split seconds more than necessary.
And in that time I saw everything I needed to. I saw the briefest glimpse of something deeply, madly hungry in her. It was unmistakable. She wanted it, no doubt in my mind. She was there with him, but she wasn't really with him. No woman looks at a man like that, no matter how briefly, if she's truly satisfied.
Or at least that's what my hung-over brain thought it saw. I stood, cracked my neck and took a deep breath of sea air.
"Nice bumping into you... again," I said.
She had her hand shielding her eyes as she stared back up at me.
"And you," she said.
I turned to leave, suddenly wondering what on earth I had planned to do before seducing her rushed to the top of my priority list.
I wandered my way to a lower deck and found a few boys, had some coffee and laughed about the misadventures of the night before. But deep down I was already certain that I would see her again, and that the next time I did, we would do much, much more than just talk.
Chapter 4 - Charlie
It was the second night of fourteen. I still had time, but not that much time. Once we got to California, the training would take front and center and then who knows when I'd next have real alone time with him.
I paced my room. I hated being alone like this. Hated having nothing to do, no schedule, zip. I peeked out the window and watched. The boat was so big it felt like the water was moving, not us. It soothed me for a second but I was soon back to pacing again.
I took a deep breath.
I was an attractive, competent young woman who could achieve anything she put her mind to. I was smart. I was good looking. I was fit as hell, and strong. And Todd, irritating fucker that he was, was actually right about something: I did treat love like it was some kind of competitive game. This is how it always goes in the movies though, right? The too-tough bitchy girl learns to get in touch with her cheesy feminine side and the main character guy realizes she had been a babe all along. Right? Right.
I sat down on the dressing table chair and examined my reflection. I looked a little less severe without the braids, but it wasn't enough. I had to look vulnerable. I sighed and rummaged in my toiletry bag. Time for my war paint.
"Come on, Charlie," I muttered under my breath. "You're a warrior, you're a badass. If you can turn over tractor tires, you can sure as hell put on a bit of lipstick."
I pulled it out and looked at it. After a series of embarrassing failures in real life makeup shops, I had decided instead to buy this ...thing online. 'Maybelline Glow Shine Maxxx in Sparkling Pink Nougat' my Amazon receipt had read. Ugh.
I clenched my jaw, unwrapped it and wound it up till a faint pink nub poked out at the end. I tried applying some to my pouted lips and, to my surprise, it didn't look all that bad. I closed it, kissed my lips together a few times and examined my reflection again. Sure, I wasn't a runway model or anything, but that was definitely a step in the right direction. Right?
In a heartbeat I was furiously rubbing my lips again, smearing the glitzy pink wax off onto the back of my hand. I looked at my reflection again. Ugh. I was a fucking monster. Big old beak nose. Small shitty eyes. Crooked teeth. No boobs. I was ugly as hell. Just what did I think I was going to achieve with this dumb shit anyway?
With all the fury I could muster I hurled the lipstick into the trash can and leant forward to smear the rest of the lipstick off on the fabric of my black jeans. I didn't want to, I honestly didn't, but all at once I started to cry. It happens sometimes, and I have no idea where the tears come from. But I smeared these away too, sniffed loudly and tried to pull myself together again. It was just too easy. Too obvious. The only remaining female trainee was crying alone in her room like a little baby? No. That sure as hell wasn't going to be me.
I hesitated a moment, got to my knees and started rummaging around under the bed instead. Once my fingertips touched that familiar package, I pulled it out: a small cellophane bag with two non-descript pills inside. I didn't want it to come to this. I had stewed over it for days, ever since that guy in the bar had offered them to me. But desperate times, desperate measures and so on. I needed more than pretty pink lipstick if I was going to get what I wanted.
People are more willing to grant others a little weakness after they've already achieved something. Once I made it through the training in one piece, I could slow down a little, I could stop, maybe think about things.
But not yet.
My eyes scanned the room. I found a pair of spoons in the kitchenette drawer, and proceeded to crush one of the pills between them, placing the powder back in the cellophane bag and hiding the other pill back under the bed. I put the cellophane baggie in my pocket.
I took a final stock of my image in the mirror. Screw the heels I'd brought along. Screw the dress. And most especially screw the damn lipstick. I was wearing a simple green tank top, tight jeans and flats, and I looked good. I was a strong, capable, confident woman, just as I was. I didn't need any of that other shit.
I peeked out of the window and noticed something that gave me pause - the weather outside looked suddenly insane. I hadn't noticed it change. I pressed my nose up to the round glass and watched what looked like a swirled oil painting done in blue and black and sickly green. The water was opaque and peaking up in irregular, chaotic looking waves that didn't break but only seemed to swell bigger and bigger. The sky was mottled with heavy clouds choking out any last rays of the sunset. I didn't know much about ocean weather patterns, but it didn't look normal to me. Nevermind. It would be a good excuse to not have to get into my damn bikini.
I took a deep breath and left the room - the party would have already started. And I needed to find Todd.


***


"You're looking dapper this evening," I said when I finally found him.
"Why thank you! I can clean up nice, you know," he said and did a little twirl. He looked amazing. He smelled good, too.
"Can I get you a drink?" I offered. He held up his hands to signal no.
Ok. Fine. Just play it cool. I had all night, no need to rush.
"I'm still putting my liver back together after last night, thank you very much."
He was super friendly, but he seemed distracted somehow. Maybe the heels would have been a good idea after all.
"I hear things got a little out of hand last night," I said.
"Yeah, you could say that. Why do you never join us though? We missed you there. You're part of our team, Charlie."
I shrugged.
"And get up to the nonsense that you clowns get up to? No thanks," I said and laughed.
"So you heard about the ...the branding thing, huh?"
"Yeah, I had breakfast with Adam this morning and he told me. I think he just needs to call his mom and think about his life choices for a while."
We both laughed.
"Are you sure you don't want a drink? Come on," I said.
"OK. Yeah, why not, I'll get something."
"What do you want?"
"I don't know. Surprise me," he said, his eyes still glued to the door like he was waiting for someone. Oh, I'd surprise him all right.
I nodded and went off to the bar to order two beers, asking specifically that they be kept in their dark glass bottles. The bartender didn't seem to mind this request. Then, when the coast looked clear, I huddled myself into a corner, quickly slipped the cellophane baggie from my pocket and sprinkled its contents into one of the beers, swirling quickly to dissolve it and wash away the white powder streaks inside.
"Charlie! Hey, there you are!"
I spun around to see Todd behind me. With somebody else. A woman.
"This is Ellie. Ellie, Charlie, Charlie, Ellie," he said and gestured between us.
"Nice to meet you," she said sweetly. "Todd says you're like, the meanest, toughest, baddest member of their team."
I cringed inside. I already hated her, and not just because she was standing so close to him.
"Well, you have to be mean and tough to put up with this guy," I said, and moved myself closer to him.
She smiled.
"Hey Ellie, you want a drink?" Todd said, turning to her.
"Sure, I could go for a beer."
"Great! Here, why don't you take this one, and I'll quickly go and get myself another one while you chat here with Charlie..." he said and snatched the tainted bottle from my hand.
"No!" I snapped.
He looked a little surprised.
"I just mean, don't trouble yourself, these are yours. I'll uh, I'll get myself another," I said, deliberately handed him the tainted bottle and the woman the clean bottle, and then skulked off, trying hard not to be too obvious as I cast backwards glances at them.
From the bar I could get a more careful look at her. She was pretty. Too pretty. And in every way the annoying, awful, horrible opposite of me. A girly girl. She sure as hell didn't have any problem with makeup, that's for sure. Her face was full of it. And her hair was curled and flicked off to the side, and she was wearing - I shit you not - she really looked like she was almost wearing a night gown. The weather had dropped this evening and it was quite cold, yet that didn't seem to stop her. The dress was slinky and lacy and clung to every fat roll she had, and it ended in a big nasty ruffle of silk or some shit at her neckline where the dress just gave up and her great big tits came spilling out the top instead. I'm not a jealous type, I leave that to other woman, but even I know trashy taste when I see it.
The bartender looked at me, followed my gaze into the crowd and then looked back at me. I didn't care what he thought. When you know you can easily take a man in bare handed combat, it's easy not to give a damn if he gives you funny looks. I took a hasty sip of my new beer, blinked away angry tears and walked over to them again. Just at that moment, three of the guys came blustering along to greet us, every one of them wearing something ridiculous, looking like they were already well on their way to another legendary night.
"Charlie!" Ethan said. "Charlie, Charlie, Charlie, my man! This will not do, where the hell's your fancy dress?"
"This is as fancy as it gets, fellas," I said drily.
They were in my way, cutting me off from Todd and letting him drift off with that ...girl.
"Charlie, come over here a second ...you know, Ethan won't tell you because he's scared you'll kick his ass, but when are you going to wear something nice, huh? Something sexy. I even heard tell that you were planning on wearing a dress on this trip," Joey said, and linked his hand over my shoulder like we were the best buds in the world. I shrug it off, terse.
"Just cut it out, assholes."
The mood dropped instantly.
I angled my head to peer into Todd's glass bottle and saw that he had already drunk around a third of it. A strange little kick of excitement went through me. Now, if he could just lose that bitch then part two of my plan could start to come together. All at once the music inside the bar lounge stopped and the lights flickered on brighter. Everyone stopped to listen as a voice came crackling through the speakers.
"Ladies and gentlemen, I regret to inform everyone that the storm warning we received a few hours ago seems to have gotten a little more serious. There's no need for panic, though. Tropical cyclones are extremely rare in these waters and so we'll likely return to our program shortly. The crew and I are working hard to plot an alternative course. However, we do expect some rough weather for the next few hours, and insist that everyone return to their rooms till further notice. Please walk calmly; again, the situation is under control. Crew members can answer any questions later, but for the time being please make your way as soon as possible to your rooms. Thank you for your attention."
Todd and the girl immediately looked at each other. And me, the stupid, pathetic idiot that I was, I looked at him.
"Shit," said Ethan.
Todd swiftly downed the rest of his beer and set the bottle off to the side.
"Cheers guys, Ellie and I will be clearing off I guess, was nice knowing you," he said with a shrug, took her hand and walked off towards the exit. The other guys were as shocked as I was. People started talking all at once and suddenly everyone in the room began to bustle into one another and rush for the doors, cutting me off from him.
"Todd! Wait!"
But he was long gone into the crowd, and when I heard the announcement coming again over the speakers, this time people were making too much noise for it to be heard.
Chapter 5 - Ellie
He grabbed my hand firmly and yanked me outside, and we both stood and stared in awe for a moment at the weird color the sky had turned.
It was all wrong. Panicked people streamed past us on all sides but I couldn't tear my eyes away from the bizarre green and yellow swirls rolling quickly over the horizon. Bruise colored clouds. And something metallic and threatening hovered on the wind, which was now whipping in all directions. I had never seen anything like it. Little ribbons of blue sky remained but were rapidly skidding off to the east and disappearing.
Reflexively, I squeezed his hand. He looked at me, for once not smiling, and then pulled my hand to guide me through the maze of confused people.
"Todd! Todd wait, my room is in the other direction!"
He turned and scowled at me.
"Ellie, that storm is serious, and with this wind it'll hit us in five minutes, if that. Where is your room?"
"On Deck B, just that way..." I said, pointing lamely.
"No, it's too far. We need to get inside now."
The crowd was already thinning around us, people disappearing quickly into doors, loose sarongs flapping in the wind. A towel came slinking by on the floor and wrapped around my feet. I untangled it and the wind carried it off again, slinking and twisting fast over the deck and off into the sea. Two hours before it had been a perfect, sunny blue day. How could this actually be happening? Surely this wasn't right...
"Ellie! Are you listening? Come with me, my room is closer; it's on this deck. We need to get indoors before the storm hits..."
"Your room?"
It suddenly felt more difficult to hold his hand. Just how much of an emergency was this, really? One moment I was enjoying a casual party and having a good time and the next the sky had churned into some vision of hell and I was standing here, and the wind was making it difficult to talk, and now he was inviting me to his room?
"Ellie, we're wasting time. This is dangerous, standing out here."
It was frightening how quickly people had cleared the deck. Only one or two people remained and were scrabbling to unlock doors and get inside as the wind seemed to whip up into a frenzy with every passing second. I didn't know what to do. Anthony would still be in the room, and he'd be looking for me...
"Ellie!"
He had grabbed my hand more tightly now and was pulling me hard in the wrong direction. The moment slowed right down. It was all wrong. Leaving Anthony like that. Coming out here where I knew this guy would be there, and I knew Anthony would be devastated if he knew about any of it... I was unprepared for the sheer weight of remorse that hit me just then, even harder than the stinging wind thrashing our faces. I stood frozen.
"Hey, you two! You need to get off deck! Get off deck!"
I spun around to see a crew member gesturing at us wildly, his voice getting lost in the now screeching wind. One more moment of hesitation and the crew member grabbed both of us by the sleeve and yanked us nearer to the body of the ship, where he banged a card key to the door and opened a small storage room filled with deck chair cushions and lilos.
"Get inside!" he yelled, pushed us in and in a heartbeat the door slammed behind us.
The wind howled madly outside, and I watched in horror as thick, heavy raindrops then began to splatter the glass of the door window. I turned to look at Todd, but he was nowhere near as flustered as I was. He seemed to be distracted.
"That's... that's the scariest looking storm I think I've ever seen," I said, breathless. I almost had to shout to be heard. Todd said nothing. Without wasting any time, he started to look around the room, turning over the piles of deck chair cushions like he was looking for something. The ship groaned and lurched, slowly to one side and then slowly, sickeningly, back to the other side again. I staggered a little on my feet.
"Todd... how bad do you think this is, really? This will all just pass, right? I need to get back to Anthony..."
Here he paused a little in his rummaging but didn't look up at me.
"I don't want to alarm you, but I don't think this is just a storm, Ellie."
"What? What else could it be?"
"Look, I'm not going to lie, I think we're in for a rough time. But just listen to me and try to act quickly, OK? Can you do that for me?"
"But..."
"Can you just promise me you'll try to stay calm?"
I nodded.
His words hit me hard. I suddenly realized how cold I was, and looked down at my flimsy dress, raindrops making dark speckles on the silk and my hard, icy-cold nipples poking shamelessly through the clinging fabric. Staying calm seemed utterly impossible right now.
I went to the door to peer out the window but as quickly as I did, Todd's fist closed around my arm and he snatched me away again.
"Get away from there! It's dangerous," he said, his whole face seeming different now that he wasn't smiling and joking anymore.
"But I have to get back to Anthony," I said. "He'll be wondering where I am, and what if he's not OK?" I said. His mouth tightened and he stood to look at me.
"Anthony can look after himself. We need to stay out of the storm, and I think it's going to get much worse. Come here and help me look for flotation devices."
"Flotation devices?" I said and staggered towards him, starting to feel numb. "What do we need those for?"
He shot me another look.
"Did you see those big, tall clouds out there, on the horizon? That's not a storm, Ellie, that's a big ass hurricane. We're in an El Nino year. The water's just been too warm. Once the ship starts taking on water we're going to need to be prepared..."
"Wait, what? A hurricane?"
"A cyclone, yes. A hurricane."
"But California never gets--"
"Ellie, just help me look!" he barked, and I did as he told me, hot tears forming on my lashes.
Outside the rain was indeed getting heavier, so much so that the raindrops of the glass had turned into a solid, rippling sheet of water pelting down. The violence outside drummed against the steel of the door so loudly I could scarcely hear myself think as my hands turned over piles of chair cushions.
"Yes!" he cried and I turned to see him holding up some orange life jackets.
"Put this on," he said and thrust it at me. I was still crying as I put it over myself, hands shaking, struggling to fasten the black plastic clips. The last thing I had done with Anthony was fight with him. I was angry he didn't want to come out with me. Again. We were all going to die now and the last words I had spoken to him were in anger, and now I couldn't bear the guilt. Nothing better was in store for me anyway, so why didn't I just marry the guy and get it done with already? Why had I been so ungrateful to him, so difficult, when all he wanted to do was start a life with me? What the fuck was wrong with me?
At that moment, I can't explain why, all I could think of was a documentary I had watched some years ago, about people who had gotten caught in some great fire, and they were interviewing the survivors afterwards, and an elderly lady had said, in a sad, defeated voice, "you never realize just how fragile life is until it's too late". And now those words were banging around in my head as I tried to close the other clasps, and the thought made my eyes burn and I couldn't see and I couldn't breathe.
"Ellie, hey Ellie, you need to calm down."
Todd's firm hands were squeezing my shoulders, and he was staring those pale blue eyes straight into me, looking more than a little frightened himself. His hands were the only warm thing in the world at that moment. Everything seemed to have dropped a few degrees in temperature.
"I... I need to get back to my room ...I can't be out here with you... I'm engaged, I'm supposed to be married," I said, unable to stop my words from melting into one another and becoming great big stupid sobs. He looked a little surprised, but didn't loosen his grip on my shoulders.
"Ellie, listen to me. You can't go back to your own room."
To my horror, the ship started groaning again, and the bone-shuddering sound of metal against metal rang out from beneath us.
"You can't go back to your room. The ship might ...the ship might go down, and in that case--"
"Go down?!"
"Ellie, please calm down. Just listen. The ship might go down. But you need to stay with me, OK? You need to stay calm so we can figure out a way to leave if we need to," he said, and he was suddenly checking over the fastenings on my life jacket.
"But where are we gonna leave to?" I said.
At that moment, two inches of tepid, foamy water came crawling in from under the crack in the door and sloshed easily around our feet as the ship lurched to one side. I staggered and he reached out to catch me. It was like my brain had stopped working. I saw the images in front of me. I heard the people screaming outside. But I just couldn't process it all. It was too much.
The sound of creaking metal intensified and seemed to be right over our heads. We both looked up to see the exposed beams overhead kink and bend as the torrents of rain outside beat down on us. A crack appeared at the far end of the ceiling and in burst a blue-green spray of seawater. I turned to look at him in horror. The moment became surreal. I could make out tiny droplets clinging to his eyelashes as he stared back at me; a raw, fearful look on his face. Another groan pulled his attention upwards and he frowned at the buckling ceiling overhead.
"We need to get out of here," he said, and tightened his own life jacket. He looked so pale.
"And then what?"
He caught my eye again.
"I don't know. Maybe we won't make it. But I think our best chance is to get out of here and soon," he said.
I couldn't believe the words coming out of his mouth. That maybe we wouldn't make it. It was absurd. I wasn't meant to die. I was meant to marry Anthony and settle down and have two children and be content and normal. I started crying again.
"Ellie, no more of that, seriously. Are you listening to me? When I say go, we're gonna make a run for it, OK? I think I know where we need to go, but you have to hold onto my hand and run as fast as you can, OK? You won't be able to see with the rain, but I know where we're going, so just follow me, OK?"
Before he could finish his sentence I lunged forward and planted a deep, full kiss on his wet lips. My heart was pounding hard enough to rival the noise outside. He didn't resist me. In fact, in the very next second, he grabbed the base of my neck and pulled me in hard for another kiss.
His tongue felt so warm and sweet and soft, like it was the last good thing left in this weird watery universe we had suddenly found ourselves in. Leaking water from the roof spattered down onto us but I pressed hard against him all the same, shivering in my life jacket. A loud bang made us both jump, breaking the spell of the moment. Another followed. The ship sounded like it was being torn apart.
"Let's go!" he said and grabbed my hand, slippery with rain.
We waded through the water over to the door and he gingerly opened it, letting in a rush of water that splashed right up to my knees. The ship lurched again, and the water rose higher, nearly stopping my breath as it swirled right through my dress and up onto my thighs. I fell back but he grabbed me and pulled me out the door, where I could now see sheets of rain blasting down with such fearsomeness you could scarcely see two inches in front of you. I heard the crack of thunder grumbling somewhere out of sight.
"Ready?" he said and squeezed my hand so hard it hurt.
I nodded.
Beyond belief, we saw the grey blur of someone washing by, yelling and trying to catch their footing but being swallowed away by the vicious current of murky water. I heard an immense snap behind me and realized too late that something had struck me. On my head. My vision flickered out for a moment and a dull pain radiated out from the back of my skull. The last thing I saw before I blacked out was his beautiful, plump lips, yelling something I could no longer hear.
Chapter 6 - Todd
Something was wrong. Not the massive storm pummeling mercilessly over us. Not that, but something else. Had I inhaled some weird fumes? But then she would have been affected too. No, something else was going on.
Sometime just after we left the main auditorium and just before we were shunted into this storeroom, my head began to ache. I couldn't be drunk, not from one beer, and even being the lightweight I was, I knew I couldn't still be drunk from the night before.
So then why was I having such a hard time standing? Why did it feel like now, of all possible times, my muscles were liquefying inside me, just barely responding to anything? I tried to hide my panic from her. She was freaked out enough as it was, and I certainly didn't need her losing her head on top of everything.
I remember standing with her in that weird storage room, the storm trying to beat its salty way inside, and her wide eyes as she looked up at me. Fuck, man, I'm not a cheater. I don't make commitments, not because I don't think they're worth anything, but because I think they're worth so much. Shit, I don't know. Maybe we were all gonna die and getting a kiss in edgeways was just making the best of an increasingly shitty situation.
Her lips felt so cool on mine. So wet and slippery. It felt good, carving out that weird little moment between us. All the tension we had built since the day before seemed to come to one gooey point and just melt. She was a fucking amazing kisser. There was something so trusting about her, so open.
When the roof bust open and sent a metal beam smack into the back of her head, I was almost certain she was killed instantly. It sickened me to see it, the way her body went limp and just folded down with a sploosh into the water. I yanked her up again but she was a deadweight. I pressed my face to hers. Thankfully, she was still breathing. A thin black ooze appeared at the back of her head. Shit. She was hurt badly. But at least she was still alive.
The ship gave another heave and sent us both rolling and tumbling to the back of the room. We had only a few minutes in here until the water filled it entirely, and then who knows if we'd be able to get out. The water was already lapping aggressively at my waist.
I looked down.
Huh.
It was no question the most awkward boner I'd ever have in my life. I smiled wryly to myself as briefly I imagined telling this story around a beer later on. If there even was a later on.
Gravity suspended for a while as the weight of the water inside the room lifted us both off the ground. At least she was easier to hold onto and steer this way. I couldn't tell if the water was icy cold or too warm, or if it was just my legs feeling heavy from shock. But something wasn't right. She started to drift away from me and bang into the wall, but I clutched at her flimsy little dress and pulled her towards me, anchoring her against me and noticing in a daze that I had torn some of her dress, and now had a handful of weird lace in my hands.
Why did I feel so weird?
It took all my energy to steady us both against the brutal flood of water rushing into room, but I did it. I had been fucking trained for this. All my work had to have been for something, right? If I couldn't put all of those hard-earned skills to work now, then I deserved to die. But I owed it to this woman, this sad-eyed, soft lipped, beautiful woman that had landed in my lap just 24 hours ago. She was still breathing, and as long as she was, I would find a way to get control of my sluggish muscles and haul us out of here before the entire ship went down. We were lucky to be on the upper decks - I had never been trained to manage this particular crisis situation, but even my foggy brain could see that the sheer suction force of a huge passenger liner like this dipping under water would be too much to escape from. Especially too much for a knocked-out woman and a guy who for some reason couldn't get his legs to work anymore.
Through a massive deluge of water, I managed to stick out my hand and hook it against the store room door. The water immediately picked up my feet and washed me out nearly horizontal. But it lifted her, too, and with so much effort I nearly screamed out loud, I pulled up and out, both our body weights levering on my beleaguered bicep. I eventually wrenched us out and into the rushing flow outside.
The change was swift. My head ducked under and I felt bubbles clattering in my ears. I clung to her for dear life, tumbled over myself until my feet found metal and I pushed up, breaking the surface of the water to bring me a merciful gulp of air. I wanted to throw up. All around the storm was dark, chaotic, and carrying disjointed screams and the sounds of sirens on its lashing winds, whipping up water all around. It was hard to even know which way was up.
The body of a large, heavy wave came lurching over us both and lifted our bodies a good few yards up, but our life jackets kept us buoyant and floating high above the weird debris I saw floating in the dim water beneath our feet. It was bizarre. The whole world was topsy turvy. I tried to call out to a clump of people clinging to a raft to our left, but they soon bounced out of sight behind a curtain of rain, and I realized with alarm that I couldn't work my tongue, either.
Drugged. I've been drugged.
I wracked my brain as the waves and water pummeled us in a swirl, Ellie's limp body locked against mine as her head lolled scarily from side to side.
I had had only one drink.
The beer.
From Charlie.
I felt a wretching sensation in my guts, but tried desperately to stay focused. To stay awake. I couldn't leave Ellie like this.
Another wave came roaring over us and dipped me under again. I was slowly losing sensation in my arms, now. I couldn't feel the water against my skin. Underneath, the world went quiet and slow and green, and I saw a million swirling faces frozen in screams under the water.
Up swelled the water and I burst out again. The ship, unbelievably, was now almost out of sight. I watched in disbelief as it listed and tilted heavily to each side, thrown by the waves like it was made of paper, each dip down to the side scooping up whole decks full of water and rinsing off people, who looked like nothing more than mice from this far out.
I blinked hard to get my vision to stop blurring. Maybe I was just paranoid. Maybe I had taken something by accident. It couldn't have been Charlie. She would never... I would think about that later. For now, I had to get us both to safety.
Like I was summoning each of them from the dead, I commanded both of my heavy legs to start kicking for all they were worth. The effort of dragging myself and Ellie through the raging tail of the storm was so extreme I felt like my heart would burst. Rain still lashed at us from above, but was starting to clear. When I turned to look behind me again, there was nothing but a giant, foamy patch on the ocean surface where the ship used to be. It swirled and rose in nauseating waves, dotted with screaming people and debris. I paddled harder, leaning back and noticing that Ellie's wound was leaving a fine ribbon of red as we swam on.
"Todd! Todd, come here! Todd!"
I could no longer lift my head up. I felt the tension in my jaw loosen, and no matter how hard I tried, I couldn't keep my eyes open either. I vaguely felt hands on me, and could do nothing but succumb to the feeling of being hoisted up. Or maybe down, and the hands were not my rescuers but the fingers of deep water demons reaching up to claim me and pull me under forever.
"Todd, wake up! Todd, can you hear me? Todd!"
Everything disappeared except the faint ring of that voice. My body shut down, each of the sense switching off, except for my water-logged ears, which could still make out my name being yelled. I shifted my weight and felt my skin squeak. Was I on a raft? Was Ellie still attached to me?
"Todd, can you hear me? Open your eyes if you can hear me," the voice said.
Was it Charlie? Maybe I was already in hell. In any case, I couldn't open my eyes. The roar of the rain seemed to settle down to a regular drone. Remarkably, I was still conscious. Barely, but conscious. I felt as though all of me had died, except one small little flicker at the center that was still awake somehow. This little flicker crouched somewhere unseen, while the rest of the world tossed and raged around me. I knew that if I let go of that flicker, I might never get it back. I had the dim sense that my arms were around Ellie. I couldn't feel them anymore, and I couldn't open my eyes to see, so I contended myself with the idea that I just wouldn't let go of her in thought.


***


When I finally woke up, it was to the sound of crying. My eyelids felt salted over but I managed to peel them open. Still dark. Slowly, like painful patches of a picture coming back together, I realized what had happened.
The storm.
The ship had gone down.
Ellie.
I tried to sit up and look around me, but a searing pain shot all the way up my spine and immobilized me again. I pushed through it, dragged myself to sitting and tried to find the source of the crying.
It stopped.
"Todd ...Todd, oh my god," the voice said.
"Charlie?"
"Todd, I'm so sorry..." she said. It was Charlie, but not like I'd ever seen her. And I barely could see her. We were in a tiny inflatable lifeboat, and I could feel the waves of seawater heaving beneath the thin tarp under me. It was dark all around. A little light from the stars and moon overhead gave a hint of an outline of a crouched woman in front of me and ...Ellie! Ellie lay crumpled at the bottom of the boat. My eyes gradually started to adjust.
"Ellie, are you awake?" I said and grabbed her. I nearly flinched when I touched her cold skin. I pressed my face to hers and, like a miracle, the delicate rush of air was still entering and leaving her small body. I wanted to cry.
"Todd ...Todd, I never meant to. Thank god you're awake. I'm so sorry. I don't know what I was thinking. Oh thank god. I never intended for this to happen..."
Slowly my confusion was lifting. And in its place was anger. I took a few moments to find my lungs again, to breathe, to steady myself against all the many miscellaneous pains I was now aware of in every corner of my body. I was cold. And in pain.
"What are you talking about, Charlie?"
"Your beer," she said quickly. "I put something in it."
I groaned. It was all too much.
"Is it gonna fucking kill me?"
"Todd, I'm so sorry..."
"Well, is it?" I snapped.
"It was just a roofie, Todd. Just a stupid mistake. But I pulled you from the water. You and the girl. You had passed out..."
She was speaking so quickly I was having a hard time keeping up. My eyes still weren't doing a good job focusing on the surrounds in such low light. It was dark, and it was wet, but beyond that I was having a hard time orienting.
"I've bandaged her head," she said, now flapping the lower half of her torn jeans at me to show me. I squinted my eyes to look, then examined Ellie again. Yes, I could now make out a crude bandage over her wound, made of stretchy denim material.
"How long...?"
"We've been floating for a few hours. I haven't seen anyone else, Todd. I'm so scared. The ship's gone. It's just ...gone" she said.
"Charlie, calm down. You're in shock."
I was gradually finding the energy to look around the boat. It looked pretty miserable. Nothing to keep us warm. Nothing at all. Just us three, this wet rubber, and the incessant rain.
"Todd, I'm sorry."
"Will you shut up? You're fucking crazy, you know that? I could have died out there because of ...let's just figure out how to get out of this mess, OK?"
"It'll be morning soon and--"
"Just shut up."
I hated speaking to her like that. But I hated even more the sensation of not having any control over my body. Of not being able to do the things that I needed to do, right at the most crucial moment I needed to do them. She could have gotten me killed. And what if I had passed out before I could strap Ellie in a vest and carry her away from the wreck?
I lay my broken body down beside Ellie on the cold rubber and huddled next to her. Charlie sat on the far side of the boat, still crying.
"Ellie," I whispered into her ear. "Ellie, wake up."
Her breath snagged and caught, then she took another deep inhale and cracked her eyes open slightly. Even in the darkness I could see the light green of her iris swivel around to focus on my face.
"Todd?"
"I'm here."
It was all I could think of to say. She drifted back out of consciousness and her eyes flickered closed again. I didn't know how we were going to get out of this. I didn't yet know how to keep her warm, or how we were going to find dry land. But I was here. That much was true.
Chapter 7 - Anthony
I looked down at them huddled together on the floor of the raft, sleeping fitfully. Folded into one another's arms, their backs against the harshness of the reality around us. That should have been Ellie and I. We should have been here, on the raft together, holding one another for comfort.
The rhythmic bobbing of the raft had been making my stomach turn all night, but what was really sickening me was the thought that the last thing we had done together was fight. About something stupid. About a dumb fancy dress party that would have cost me nothing to go to, and would have meant the world to her, and it was all just monumentally stupid, and this very instant she was probably sinking down to the floor of the Pacific Ocean and everything, absolutely everything, was wrong now.
Through narrowed eyes I looked over at the chopped surface of the ocean. How much water was in an ocean? How many millions of ocean liners could disappear inside it? It blew my mind, just staring at it all, at the unbearable flatness of the whole situation. The sun had just peeked a glowing tip over the horizon and everything was flooding over in gentle yellows and pinks all across the sky. But this perfect, tranquil seascape was pure horror to me, because I knew what was underneath it. I knew what was hidden down there, inside all that blue and green that had violently toppled and gobbled my whole life just a few hours ago.
It was like a joke, watching the quiet water now. It was just a big, vulgar joke to see the two of them together, devoted lovers, still entwined while my Ellie was nowhere to be seen. I wanted them to never fucking wake up. I glanced over at the kid on the other side of the raft. He had his knees pulled high up to his chin and was gazing far out, like me. He looked like some kind of skinhead, couldn't have been older than 21 or 22. Not that it matters how many years you've gathered up when life comes to cruelly slice you down. We weren't dead, thank god, but floating here on this pitiful raft was damn well close to it.
My clothes had dried to a salty crisp on my skin, and now felt supremely dirty. We were plainly exposed to the heat and wind, and if the sun decided to rise any further, we'd have absolutely zero protection from its rays.
I had no idea where we were, and how we were going to get to anywhere else. The only place my mind could travel was back: to all the missed opportunities. To the moments I could have made her happy but didn't. I had done things to her that I wasn't proud of, and now it was too late. I could have relented on my stupid rules once in while. Could have gotten off her case about her work, about all those endless niggles that seemed so unimportant now. Could have made love to her more. Why hadn't I made more of an effort to love her? Because I'm a fucking idiot, that's why.
The boy caught my eye.
"This is like, some action movie shit," he said.
I was appalled.
The waves seemed to bob us forward a little, bob us backward a little. It was hard to tell if we were moving at all, but with miles and miles of blue in every direction, it was hard to even conceive of travelling anywhere.
"Looks like there was a little pack attached here," he said, gesturing to some empty clips on the wall of the raft, "I've seen 'em before, they have like, a paddle in it and some emergency gear. And whistles and flares and things."
"Well, where is it?"
"Gone," he said.
It was infuriating just how little there was on the raft with us. When it had first careened straight into my head as I floated and flailed in the center corridor, I had clung to it for dear life. Chairs and suitcases and cups and shoes and every kind of item you can imagine swirled and whizzed around me as I hitched a ride and tried to cower from the rain and falling debris. But now, none of that stuff was left. Not a single teaspoon or deck chair. Not a button. Nothing.
"Now, the sun's over there, right? So the coast has got to be off over to that direction," he said, gesturing broadly over to one side. "There are plenty of islands around, but unfortunately I don't know them or where they are."
This guy was getting on my nerves. His voice roused the couple and they stirred, sat up, rubbed their eyes and looked around at the bright morning scene with the same dread I had felt a moment before.
"Good morning," I said.
They nodded at me. The woman didn't seem too concerned that her shirt had torn straight down the middle and was halfway to revealing her navel. Ah well, not like any of that mattered now. We sat in silence for a long while, each of us far gone in our own thoughts. It wasn't a long process to think through. Every possible solution to our problem stopped short almost instantly: we were stuck at sea, no food, no water, no paddle, fuck all. But we sat and thought about it all the same.
"Baby, if we don't make it out of this alive, I wanted to let you know that I love you, and I've always loved you, and nothing will change that, not even death."
The boy and I exchanged glances and then looked with curiosity at the older guy, who now had his partner's hand in his, and was delivering this teary speech as she looked on wide-eyed. She sniffled and wiped her nose with the back of her hand.
"Baby, I know, you don't have to say. I feel the same. I've always felt that way. We've come a long way together, you and I, haven't we? It hasn't always been easy, but it's always been worth it. Always. I don't what happens after this life but Livvy, I swear--"
"Jesus, do you mind?"
They both turned to look at me.
"I'm sorry but, right here? Now? I think that's just a little inappropriate."
The boy was laughing quietly in his corner.
"Inappropriate? You're kidding, right?" The woman was already looking a little sunburnt.
"Look, I'm sorry, I know this is an emotional time, but please could you not?"
The frown on the guy's face was so deep it looked like he was about to snap his eyebrows off.
"Look, buddy, I don't know what your problem is, but this is my wife and this has fuck all to do with you, OK?"
"I'm sitting two feet from you."
"So? You don't like it, go somewhere else," he said, and turned back to his wife. The kid was giggling again.
"Baby, I want you to remember the good times, OK, no matter what happens from here on out--"
"Do you know how inconsiderate you're being?" I said, and shifted my weight so heavily that the boat rocked and swayed. It was an awful feeling, knowing that just this flimsy piece of plastic was suspending all four of us above miles and miles of solid ocean water.
The guy lowered his wife's hands, took a deep breath and then gave me a stern look. I knew I was being an asshole. I knew it. But I couldn't watch them do that, not now. Not with my head in pieces the way it was.
"Look, buddy, I don't care if we're the last four people alive in the world, you will not tell me what the fuck to do, OK?"
"Yeah? And if I do? You gonna sue me or what?"
"Are you seriously being this much of an ass right now?" he said, and glowered at me.
"Baby, please, we're all just a bit scared, let's not fight," the woman said.
"Oh, I'm not fighting..."
"Hey, don't you dare come over here, what do you think you're doing?"
"Guys!"
We all spun to look at the kid who had pepped up and was now excitedly leaning over the edge of the raft.
"If you all would shut up for a second, maybe you could help me look over there. Am I seeing things? Tell me I'm not seeing things."
We all trained our eyes on the strange fuzzy edge of the horizon. It definitely looked like land. Trees, even. I wouldn't believe otherwise. We must have stared at it for a minute straight, all of us, in silence.
"I thought you said the coast would be that way?" the woman said.
"Guess I was wrong, lady," the kid said, and instantly leant over, dunked his hands in the water and began paddling for all he was worth.
We all joined him without any encouragement, and soon the quiet ocean air was filled with the sound of frantic splashing. It felt, of course, like we were going nowhere, but we paddled all the same. Within ten minutes we couldn't deny it. We all checked with one another: had the fuzzy patch on the horizon really grown bigger? Yes. Yes it had. We were going to be OK. We had found land. We just had to paddle like our lives depended on it. Which, of course, they did.
Chapter 8 - Ellie
My world went from deep, soft black ...to blue.
My eyes were opening. I stared straight up, or what I thought was up. Nothing but a depthless, cool blue, and a wisp of cloud that told me it was the sky. I wasn't dead. That was air - normal, clean air in my lungs - and I wasn't dead.
All at once every one of my muscles shot to life and I sprang up, then recoiled instantly in pain. It felt like a hot, burning knot had taken the place of my foot; I looked down to see it tightly bundled in various rags. Worrying sensations radiated from some unseen spot on the back of my skull, and when my fingers went to explore the ache there, they touched more of the same rough bandages. I hurriedly examined the rest of my body: I was alive, but felt like a lumpy bag that had been kicked down a hundred flights of stairs.
After I was satisfied that my limbs were mainly intact, I turned my attention to the world around me.
Sand.
Sea.
I was on a beach, surrounded by all the elements of a tropical paradise except it was all far, far more frightening. The sand was too white. The air too thin. Some seagulls wheeled up overhead but it hurt to lift my gaze to the sun and look at them. Wincing, I tried to remember.
Todd.
The storm.
The storeroom.
Was I the only one who had survived?
I looked down again at my body. The silk over the bodice of the best dress I ever owned was ripped and hanging in ribbons off me. The salt water had matted my hair in one loose dreadlock which was now pasted to my back, and crunchy with beach sand. I was struggling to sit up when thought hit me. A thought so devastating it was like watching the whole accident happen all over again: I had nearly cheated on Anthony.
Or had I?
I sat back down again, head suddenly reeling.
Was the storm the only reason I hadn't gone through with anything? What would have happened if that storm never came? Would I have just gone back to the room, back to my life with him, back to California and straight into the marriage that was waiting for me like a wolf in the forest, licking its chops?
I looked down at the shreds of my dress.
The irritating fact was, I didn't know. I liked to think that I would never have jeopardized my relationship with Anthony. And yet, why did I feel so guilty? How could I feel so bad about something that never happened? Never got the chance to happen is not the same as not happening, though, is it? It all seemed so pathetic now. So sordid in the hot morning sun. Suddenly, as though I had been kicked in the stomach, I folded over to the side, retched and threw up all over the sand. Sitting up again, I felt no relief. I wanted to cry but felt too dry inside. Too tired.
I flopped back down and contemplated dying right there and letting the seagulls peck me away, when my eye caught something. A jacket. An orange jacket laying neatly in the sand. I couldn't coax my bruised body up to go and examine it, but my mind raced off all the same.
Anthony...?
What were the chances?
When I saw two figures walking over a soft dune towards me, I didn't know if I started crying or laughing or screaming. I had never been more happy to see human beings in my life. One of them picked up their pace when they saw me; the other hung back. I lifted stinging eyes upward and saw who it was. Todd soon stood towering over me, sun behind him, an undecipherable expression on his face.
"You're awake," he said.
I could think of no response. I just wanted to reach out and hold him, to just touch something that wasn't the hostile elements of sand or sea or wind. But I couldn't get up. I felt like my entire body had been rinsed out inside with burning salt water and now everything hurt. I could hear the muscles in his thighs crack as he crouched down and looked me square in the eye.
"I was sure you wouldn't make it. You took a massive gash to the head, and you were out cold for at least a few hours."
My hand again went to the back of my head to see if it felt different now that I knew what it was. Everything was slowly coming back to me though.
"Maybe you don't remember. The ceiling broke and came down on your head. It knocked you right out."
"You... you saved me?"
"Nah, you can thank your life jacket for that," he said and gave a playful nod to the orange jacket I had spied earlier. So Anthony wasn't here, then. I stopped my mind from thinking any further. My head spun.
"I feel like shit, Todd."
To my surprise he broke out in a big, juicy laugh.
"Yeah, I bet! But you're a fighter, no question," he said, and extended his hand for a high five. I weakly lifted my hand to his and, despite the wash of pain moving through every part of me, I found myself laughing quietly with him.
"Has this actually happened, Todd? Did the ship really sink? Are we really ...shipwrecked on an island?"
"Yep, not a dream I'm afraid" he said, and straightened to standing again.
The other figure had ambled over now, a woman. I recognized her from the bar. She said nothing, but only peered down at me, and I wasn't quite sure if the scowl on her face was my fault or the sun's. Her hair was tightly braided back and she seemed ...angry. I couldn't think of anything to do but nod in acknowledgment of her and try to stand again.
"So, the deal is that we appear to be the only three survivors," she said quickly. "The ship went down sometime last night after nineteen hundred hours. Your foot was broken but we've made a short splint and bandaged it as best we could. Your head will be fine, just a surface wound. I recommend keeping that braid in, the tension will help it heal."
My fingers went to touch my hair again. Ah, not a dreadlock, but a braid. The thought of them both ministering to me while I was unconscious sent a strange pang of fear through me. I tried to stand again and coax my limp legs to hold my weight. I wobbled, but Todd immediately stepped in, grabbed my arm and held me up firm. The effect his had on the girl was palpable. She shot us both fiery looks but held her tongue.
"I'm sorry, I don't remember your name..." I said, trying to soothe the awkwardness of the moment and to tear my attention away from how wildly erotic it felt to suddenly have his arms around me, faintly touching over the places where my dress had been torn open.
"Charlie. It's Charlie," she spat and watched me struggle with a faint sneer on her face.
"If it wasn't for Charlie, we wouldn't have found the raft, or made it to the island. In fact we wouldn't even be here right now," Todd said, but there was something not perfectly sincere in the way he said it. I wanted to collapse against his touch and sleep in it forever.
"Thank you, Charlie," I said with full earnestness. "It looks like you saved my life."
"I saved Todd's life, actually. You just happened to be strapped to him."
The look they exchanged with one another was loaded with venom. I gently pried myself free of his grasp and took a moment to wobble and come to standing on my own. My foot rang out in pain with even the faintest touch on the ground beneath. But I was too exhausted to lift my leg and carry it. The compromise was to hang awkwardly somewhere in between, trying to find my balance.
"Well, however it happened, thank you. I don't even ...I don't even remember getting here, to be honest. Nothing." I looked at them both and wondered what we had all gotten ourselves into. "You and Todd are both... uh...?"
"Both SEAL trainees, yes. We trained together. We're training buddies, me and him. And we're doing our next course in California together," she said, again speaking so quickly it made me wonder if I had scrambled my brains somehow and wasn't processing so well anymore. But I think I got it now. This was his girlfriend. Or ...was his girlfriend? My head was too sore to tease out the soap opera dynamics in front of me, so I just put my forehead down and tried to focus on standing upright.
My rag-bound toes touched the sand but this time the pain was so intense I felt it stab right through me, and I cried out in pain. Anthony was gone, and it was my fault. The thought of what had happened was indistinguishable from the pain in my body. I had put on this dress. I had gone out, when he asked me not to. I was just trying my luck. Just having fun. But now he was dead. Now they were all dead and only I was alive to think of how I had betrayed him, or meant to betray him. I burst into tears. And once I started, I couldn't stop.
The tears came in big, inelegant gushes, and my whole body shuddered. The grief was so intense I could do nothing but let it take me completely, and now I was sure the waves of nausea and guilt and searing pain would kill me for real, and that I was half dead already, just a worthless piece of debris. I cried and cried and cried, not even summoning enough energy to sob.
His arms closed around me again. And the second they did, everything changed. What a delicious torment. How outrageous. Not only was I a deceitful asshole, apparently, I was actually doing this. I was actually getting turned on by this hot stranger who I had just a day ago been so eager to wreck my entire life for. I cried even harder. The ship was wrecked. My life was wrecked.
"Hey, shh, it's OK, it's OK... I'm sorry, Ellie, I'm so sorry," he said and crumpled down to the ground with me, his body a warm shell around my small, broken one. The way he stroked my brow seemed to me, at that moment, the most beautiful thing that had ever happened to me. Not forgiveness exactly. Not a chance to fix anything. But it was human, and it was warm and soft, and I felt so cold and hard inside.
"Shhh, it's OK..."
"Yeah, I don't mean to interrupt y'all, but we have a lot of shit to get done right now."
I looked up to see Charlie with her hands on her cocked hips, looking irritated. I quickly wiped away my tears, trying to gather myself.
"I'm sorry, I'm just..."
"Jesus, Charlie, can you give her a break? She's in shock."
"Yeah, OK, fine, but what's crying about it going to achieve?"
"What the hell, Charlie? She just lost her fiancé, can you show some fucking sympathy?"
Charlie's eyes widened with interest.
"Oh, so she has a fiancé?"
They exchanged another venomous glance. Charlie turned to me and in a slow, deliberate voice, said, "I'm sorry your fiancé went down with the ship, Ellie," all without taking her eyes off Todd. "But we lost people too, you know."
I groaned and looked around. What the hell did people even do in this situation? What was the protocol? Somebody had to be looking for us.
"You OK?" he said.
"Yeah, I'll be fine. It's just that I ...this is embarrassing but ...I have to ...go."
He looked confused for a second but then immediately sprang to action, understanding me.
"Of course! Right! Yeah, we'll give you some privacy, you can go behind those bushes over there..."
"But I can't walk..."
Charlie snorted.
"Charlie, can you stop?"
"Stop what?"
"Just cut it out."
"It's not my fault she's a fucking baby. We've all sustained injuries, not just her, you know."
"Just lay off. She's a civilian. She's scared. And you're not helping. Hey, Ellie, just ...how about I carry you over there?"
"Carry me?"
Charlie gave another nasty laugh. "You sure you can handle it, Todd?" she said, and looked down at the white of my stomach peeking out from a tear in my silk dress.
Fat. She was joking about me being fat, of course, because all the tragedies so far hadn't quite been enough, and I needed some stranger to quip about my belly. Of course.
"What the hell is that supposed to mean?" I said. I'm not an angry person, but the pain gave my voice a bitter edge. She looked as surprised at my tone as Todd was.
"Nothing, buttercup, jeez, just chill," she said and turned to leave.
"No, I won't just chill. You apologize to me. Right now."
"Excuse me?"
Todd was beginning to look like he wanted to crawl into the sand and get away from us both.
"You meant my weight, right? Just say what you mean. I don't even know you and you're saying that kind of stuff to me? Apologize."
Charlie looked a little stunned but stood her ground. She kept glancing over to Todd but he wasn't returning her gaze.
"Fine, I'm sorry, OK?" she said, squeezing as much poison into the word as she could. She straightened her posture. "But the next time I see your pasty fat ass in trouble, remind me not to step in and help," she snapped and turned to leave.
I could only look on, mouth hanging open, as she walked off again. Todd let out a long, low whistle as we both sat in silence for a moment.
"Don't mind Charlie, she's just ...she's kind of used to playing the badass, you know?"
I bit my tongue. If these seriously were the only other two people on this island with me, the last thing I needed was to fight with them on day one. But damn.
"Here, put your arm over my shoulder."
"What?"
He leaned forward, slipped under my arm and in one movement hoisted me up and had my weight resting across his broad shoulders.
"Let me take you to those bushes over there."
I nodded and we went.
"I'm sorry, Todd. This is not my finest hour, I know," I said as he padded softly but strongly through the fine sand.
"Don't worry about it."
He carried me towards a small copse of palm trees a few yards away from the shoreline, behind which was some denser, dark green growth so thick it was almost completely enveloped in darkness.
He had to stop and adjust his grip around me a few times - firming up his one arm under my knees and the other behind my back and curling over my shoulder. For a moment, the skin of our bare stomachs touched. Though we both did nothing to acknowledge this, it was all I could think about as we walked on. I didn't move away. Neither did he. And then I noticed something else. I had to check that I wasn't dreaming. No. It really was what I thought it was. I could feel ...him, through his still-wet trousers. It was unmistakable. There was a firm, distinctive bulge below the waistband of his pants and it was rubbing squarely against my hip. His cock. Right there, pressing firm against me. Unable to control myself, I looked up at him and to my surprise, he was already looking down at me. We still both said nothing and quickly snapped our gaze away again.
"Hey Ellie?"
"Yeah?"
"Don't feel weird about asking for help, OK? Till your foot's healed I'll carry you to wherever you want to go."
He was slowly ascending the small dune now, and I could feel the mercifully cool shadows on my skin.
"Yeah? Well, can you carry me away from here? Back to California?" I said, laughing. What I really wanted to say was, "thank you, that means the world to me, I have literally nothing else in the world right now but your kindness, so thank you with everything I have in me..."
He looked around for a good spot to lower me down onto, but I caught his eye again and he froze.
I could kiss him.
I could.
What was there to stop me from kissing him as much as I wanted, now that my whole life was in ruins and there was nothing left of it except him?
I had known this stranger for less than two days. And yet looking up at him now, I felt like I knew everything that was worth knowing about him. I knew that he was strong, and that he wanted to help me. I knew that in the face of the most absurd danger, he still knew how to laugh. In that moment, that handful of facts seemed enough. He parted his lips and the moment tightened a little with anticipation.
"Ellie?"
Todd spun around so fast it made my neck jerk. But what I saw was a greater shock still. Walking over the same soft sand hill, clothing torn and dirty, was Anthony.
He looked ten years older. Redder. Sadder. But it was still him and the longer I stared the more it sank in: he was still alive after all. Alive and well and on this island, with me.
He looked at Todd, looked at me again, and it seemed like a thousand painful years passed between us. He took a single step towards us, then another. Todd stood firm and still, hugging me close to his chest. I was still wearing that shameful, torn dress. And I was in the arms of the man I had tried to maybe-seduce by wearing it. Even from this far off, I could see the hate coiling up in Anthony's clenched fists.
"Get your fucking hands off my fiancé," he hissed.
Chapter 9 - Charlie
He was the only one who wasn't intimidated by me.
We met at the new recruits social and he was instantly easy and warm with me, and we chatted like we had known each other forever. He told me about flunking out of school, about his mom, about wanting to run away from it all. We had laughed and drunk more and then I had put my hand on his knee and he just left it there. He didn't say anything, he just let it rest there. And I don't know how it happened or why, but the next thing I knew we were at his place, and his shirt was off and I wanted to compose ballads about how glorious it felt to run my hands all up and down that rock hard chest of his...
He said it was his first time. I didn't believe him. But it was my first time too. It didn't hurt, the first time he lay himself over me and pushed inside. I remember how he tried to put all his weight in his arms so he didn't squash me. I remember how he whispered into my ear and kept saying, are you OK? Is this OK? And it was more than OK. It only took a few minutes. We were done so quickly, he pulled out, handed me a towel he found on the floor and came to snuggle next to me again. Under the blanket, we smelt like sweat and breath and cum and it was the most beautiful moment of my life.
He fell asleep against me; his soft dick nestled against the fur between my legs, his arms still around my shoulders, holding me against him, naked skin to naked skin. In the morning I told him I wanted to see him again, to go with him to the state fair that was happening that weekend, to get some breakfast. I told him I hadn't had so much fun in a long time, with anybody.
He told me he had made a mistake.
Well, it wasn't a mistake. I had been there. I had seen the look in his eyes. I had felt the way he touched me and heard that secret abandon in the muffled sound he made when he came. He was just scared, that's all. He didn't want to start training with the extra complication of a girlfriend, I got that. He didn't want to make things complicated. I was ambitious too. I really did understand his hesitation. So, I decided I'd give him as much time as he needed. I wouldn't push him, wouldn't be the needy girl always begging for attention.
But I hadn't backed off from him for so long just to make room for some fat bitch to muscle her way in with her damsel in distress routine. If anyone had Todd, I was the one. Todd needed a strong woman. Someone who was his equal. Todd needed me.
I kicked up dry plumes of sand as I walked, trying to put all that out of my head while I thought of what to do next. We had been training to within an inch of our lives for weeks, and yet I felt utterly hopeless now. I hated feeling hopeless. Nobody got to tell me what I could and couldn't do, especially some lame ass island.
The first thing would be to find fresh water, and the next thing to find was food. After that, we could think about a makeshift shelter - this place looked like it could easily switch weather-wise after evening fell and I didn't feel like another night of being pummeled by water.
I searched around, pressing further and further into the gnarled vegetation. There had to be some sort of underground spring, some brook or something. If not, we could use the canvas from the raft to collect rainwater and dew and hope that kept us going.
As I bent down to examine some roots that might be edible, I pricked my ears to hear distant shouts and a scream. I stood, dropped the plants in my hands, and ran over back to the shoreline. What I saw froze me in my tracks.
Other people. We weren't alone!
I quickly raced over and soon understood that a fight had broken out, but I didn't understand what I was seeing. I found Todd standing between Ellie and some guy I didn't recognize, his hands outstretched and his chest heaving. Two other people, a middle-aged man and woman, were running quickly towards them from the other direction.
"I'll fucking kill you, do you hear me?"
The guy screaming was red in the face, and looked just about ready to tear Todd limb from limb. The fat girl was crying, again, and struggling not to flop to the ground like the weakling she was. The other three people looked at me as I approached, looked at the debacle unfolding before us and then at me again. I didn't know who was more surprised.
"Can you fucking calm down man? Can't you see she's hurt?" Todd yelled. The girl was sobbing, her head in her hands, and seemed not to know what to do with herself.
"And just who the fuck do you think you are? Back off. Let her speak. Ellie, who the hell is this guy?"
Ellie could do nothing but sniffle and cry some more, her face twisted in pain as she tried to balance on her busted leg. It was an infuriating thing to witness. This must be her fiancé, back from the dead. And that was good news for me, at least. Very good news.
"Todd, just get out of here, OK?" I said and marched forward, shoved him aside roughly and grabbed the girl to help her to her feet. Stunned, she stopped crying and looked at me as I bent down to pick her up before walking over to her fiancé.
"Just take her," I said.
He obeyed.
She folded down into his arms, her stupid leg still bound up with half of my jeans. For long lost lovers, they sure as hell didn't seem all that excited to see one another, but I couldn't care less at that moment. None of my business. I looked at the expectant faces all around me. As usual, it would fall on me to take charge of the fucking mess. Again.
"I'm Charlie, by the way," I said curtly and nodded at him.
"Anthony. Anthony Coates," he mumbled.
"Great. That over there is Todd, and I see you and your, uh, fiancé, already know each other. We came in on an emergency raft last night after the ship went down. We didn't think there were any other survivors."
They all just stared at me.
"Now, I don't mean to be funny, but today is going to fly by, and if we don't start looking for a smart way out of this mess, we're all going to die here. If you assholes could hold off on trying to kill each other for a minute, that would probably help."
A small, wiry looking guy stepped forward.
"My name is Carl and this is my wife Livvy."
He was covered in aging tribal tattoos on his arms, had a soft little pot belly and a serious shirt tan. The woman waved her hand timidly and made eye contact with everyone else.
Great. By the looks of them two it meant that Todd and I were the only two truly capable adults here and it would be up to us to sort this shit out. Too bad Todd was so distracted.
"Are there any more of you?" I said.
They all looked at the ground.
"We also came in on a raft, just us, but we had another guy with us, a younger guy," the woman said to the sand between her toes.
"And...?"
"Unfortunately he didn't make it," Anthony said quietly, and I thought it so strange how hard he was trying not to look down at that fat cow he was miraculously holding up.
I shrugged and tried to think.
It was sad, but I don't think it had escaped anyone's attention that basically nobody on the ship had 'made it' either. Hundreds of people, gone. And only we remained. Fine, I could handle that. Out the corner of my eye I noticed more black and green clouds growing far on the horizon, threatening to overtake the current blue.
"OK, well, six is a good number. We can make this work. Our best bet for fresh water is to look in the interior - who still has shoes?"
I looked down at Carl's beat-up flip-flops.
"OK, you and you wife can go into the forest and start looking for fresh water or at least some tubers. Don't be too fussy, though, we'll need every calorie we can get our hands on."
I turned to Anthony. He didn't look like he was in the best physical condition of his life but at least he stood tall, was paying attention and didn't cower like those other two.
"Anthony, can you fish? Are you a good swimmer?"
He puffed his chest up and nodded. "I can check out the coast all around the island and see if I can find some food. With rocks like this, there's a good chance of mussels or maybe snails. I'll try and get a sense of how big this place is while I'm at it."
"Good man, that's good," I said, pleased that at least someone else had their head in the right damn place.
I turned to look at Todd, who stood a little back from the group, chewing on his lips.
"Todd, you and I should get to work on building a shelter. It's probably going to storm again tonight, if those clouds are anything to go by. I sure hope you were paying attention in training, because I'm going to need you to magic up some fire out of thin air, OK?"
He said nothing but I knew he was onboard. He had to be, it was the most sensible plan. It was the only plan. The couple seemed a little hesitant, like they didn't appreciate a strong woman taking charge of the situation. But fuck 'em. It wasn't my goal to win friends and influence people. It was to survive. If they wanted to die three days from now, that was their prerogative.
"What about me? What can I do?" Ellie said, and she flashed those big Bambi eyes my way.
I smirked.
"I don't know, what can you do?" I said.
Maybe in some prehistoric times a chunky bitch like her would have stayed home as the village brood mare. Maybe she had the genes for basket weaving or some shit. But right now, she just looked like a big, fat liability to me.
"I can, uh... I can't move much but I can ...dig!" she said. She tried to wriggle down from Anthony's arms.
"Dig?"
"Yeah, dig. I can stay here with you guys and dig a nice, deep hole that we can cover over with sticks and fronds, and that'll make a nice shelter. Going underground a little will help keep us cool as well."
She was at least trying to make herself useful, I'd give her credit for that. I looked down at her pink nail polish and pointy nails.
"And what are you going to dig with?"
"That's my problem to solve, isn't it?"
"OK, fine. I won't stop you. But if you can cover up a little and stop stirring up drama, that'd be great too," I said and gestured towards her bare cleavage.
She looked mortified. Good.
I glared at the couple and they quickly sprang to action and walked off towards the center of the island. I watched as Anthony carried Ellie off a few feet, gently placed her down and exchanged a few hurried whispers with her. They both looked so tense. Almost embarrassed about something. She was doing everything she could to avoid eye contact with him. Interesting. Then he stood, leant forward to kiss her brow and disappeared off towards the ocean, not giving Todd or I a second glance.
"I'll be back to check up on you in an hour," Anthony yelled after her.
Water, food, shelter, warmth. We had less than 24 hours to secure all of life's essentials. And just as soon as we did, I had another plan.
Todd.
It was a bit of a joke, really. Something you'd never imagine would happen. The middle-aged woman was married and didn't count, and as long as her fiancé was around, that bitch Ellie didn't count either. In effect, I was literally the last female alive for Todd. And it was just a matter of time before he realized that he wanted the same thing that I wanted.
Chapter 10 - Anthony
Well, we were certainly having our 'adventure' now.
I consider myself a cool, collected man. A rational man. But the last few days felt like I had been blasted with ten years' worth of emotional turmoil and I had no idea how to process it all. The landscape all around felt empty compared to the tumult inside my head. Just as soon as I grabbed hold of one thought, another, completely different one beckoned. And when I grabbed hold of that one instead, yet another one popped up to taunt me.
On the raft, I had felt nothing but pure, intense devotion to Ellie. It felt so obvious and easy at the time. She was the perfect woman, my future wife, nothing less than an earthly goddess that I'd chosen to be the mother of my children. But there were ugly scratches on this vision, and the fact that we had fought the night of the storm hadn't escaped me. And now those ugly thoughts were as plain as the day in front of me, unavoidable.
What had she been doing... before the storm hit? Was she doing it with ...him? What exactly had happened on the raft? Whatever she was doing that night when I told her to leave me alone and go and find adventure if she wanted it so bad... why had she chosen to do it wearing that dress?
I pushed the thoughts out of my mind for the time being, hoping I would come to some sort of resolution in the background while I focused on the more pressing problem: food. The truth is, I had never fished for any damn thing in my life and even if I was a pro, I'm not sure how I was supposed to do anything with my bare hands. I waded out into the water till my knees. The water was blue and clear. And empty. I waded further out to my neck, dunked my head in and opened stinging eyes to peer underneath. Still nothing, and now my eyes hurt.
I waded back out of the water again.
I had died and gone to hell, that was what was happening to me. I had spent my life setting myself up as a high earner so I could provide for my future family. I had painstakingly made long term investments, devoted myself to earning an education in a field I knew would be the most lucrative and was soon going to buy a three bedroom house with a garden for Ellie to sit in and read during her pregnancy.
And yet, none of that mattered now. It was just me, my pasty ass, and the blinding fact that I was going to starve soon if I couldn't conjure up some real sustenance.
Why hadn't I ever spent more time at the gym? If that buff army asshole thought he was such hot shit, why wasn't he out here, 'fishing'? I wanted to say Ellie wasn't capable of that. She wasn't the kind of woman to be impressed by some hot jock and throw away a promising life with a real man. But maybe, you know ...maybe she was.
After unsuccessfully trying to find something swimming in the water and realizing how hopeless that was, I drifted further out and found some rocks. I could try pick mussels off them or find a crab in the pools or something. The thought was truly appalling but I sure as hell wasn't going to turn up to the group empty handed.
I cast my eyes back to the island.
I couldn't see anyone. For all I knew she was spreading her legs this very minute, letting that asshole take advantage of her. I picked up a rock and hurled it to the ground with a scream, shattering it into shards that went flying into the rock pools. Sea birds overhead peeped and cried but a second after my tantrum the world was exactly the same as before. I shook my head to clear it, told myself to just man up and look for something to fucking eat.
I had hit her once or twice, sure. If I could imagine myself in a court of law right now, defending my actions, I'd be hard pressed. But we had moved on from all of that. She knew that I didn't really mean it, that I just had a problem with managing my stress and she just had a problem provoking me when she knew I needed to be left alone. She knew it was all just an accident. We had both realized how dangerous alcohol was for me, and we'd moved on. Or at least I thought we had moved on.
My eye caught the beautiful blue gleam of mother-of-pearl on some black rocks. I hobbled over, the sharp rocks cutting me underfoot. There were a few clusters of mussel shells wedged in the cracks of some rocks and I crouched down to examine them. I had never been so happy to see something in all my life. My stomach growled.
With shaking, sore fingers, I got to work tearing the mussels off, watching some of them slowly and sinuously shut their shells on me. I stuck my fingers in one, wrenched the shell open and took a look inside. It was a wet, pale ball that looked like snot. But it was food.
There was enough here for all six of us. I peered around, and decided I'd have to make some kind of container to carry them back to the others. After some thought I pulled my shirt off, knotted it at the open end and made a makeshift bag. I stuffed this so full of mussels it made the cotton bulge and stretch. Clutching the bag like Santa, I waded back into the water and swam slowly back to shore, feeling a little more upbeat. Maybe it wouldn't be so hard to play Robinson Crusoe out here after all.
The sky was blue overhead, and the water felt delicious and cool on my bare chest. She had looked beautiful, I'd give her that. As I swam I let her image float into my mind. The torn bodice of her dress. The way her hair was all wild and knotted around her face. Her wide open eyes and god, those tits. Nevermind tropical beach paradises, Ellie's breasts were the real heaven on earth. By the time I arrived back at the shore, I had settled on my next move: I would forgive her. Then I would have to fuck her.
It was predictable, I know. But I had to claim my territory. Call it the brute in me, I was guilty as charged. But all the old rules of my life didn't seem to hold here anyway. I'd find her, take her somewhere quiet, and let her know that it was all OK, that I was going to take care of her, and I forgave her everything. None of it mattered anymore, not after the brush with death we'd both endured. Marriage is all about compromise, about adapting to the challenges life throws your way and making the best of it that you can. I would do that for her. She was afraid. She had made some bad decisions. But that was all in the past now.
By the time I waded onto the dry sand an hour later, I was horny as hell and could think of nothing but taking her, right here and right now, under the sun.
Thankfully, I found her alone. She was sitting in a sea of green, and as I walked closer, I could see it more clearly: she was surrounded by palm fronds. She was sitting in an awkward cross-legged position, a long frond over her lap as her little white hands worked quickly over the torn leaf ribbons. She looked up at me and tried to smile.
"Where did you learn to do that?" I asked her and looked down at the woven leaves. It was remarkable.
"This? It's just braiding. If I can make a few layers of these, it'll make a nice roof. I don't know how waterproof it'll be, but if it's slanted, like this, and I put a few more fronds on top to channel the water off, it'll hopefully keep us all dry."
Maybe we'd never speak again about the wreck. Maybe we'd just live the rest of our lives talking about this and that. Maybe we'd live here forever.
"Ellie? Ellie, I'm sorry," I said, dumped my bag of mussels on the sand and came to sit beside her.
"I'm sorry too," she said, and her fingers kept working, flicking the long thin leaves up, over and down again. I tried to help by feeding her the next branch when she reached the end of her current one. We worked together for a while like this, in silence.
"What happened, Ellie?"
Her hands paused.
"I went out. I met up with him. He saved my life. Nothing happened."
I hated that she seemed to be using as few words as possible. At least she knew how bad it looked.
"You dressed up," I said quietly. Her dress seemed to be disintegrating all around her. I had the wild thought of it falling to pieces completely, leaving her some kind of wild beach woman with a coconut bra and a grass skirt. I hated that I still wanted her. Badly.
"I'm not mad, Ellie."
"Good, you have nothing to be mad about."
Silence.
"I fetched some mussels for us."
"Great. Once Todd makes some fire, we can cook them."
Fucking Todd. I bristled at the mention of his name.
"Ellie, can we... let's go somewhere private. I just want to speak to you, alone."
She looked at me.
"We are alone."
I sighed.
"I just want some privacy..."
She seemed to understand what I was saying. She gently let the frond fall from her fingers and stroked her hands over her thighs.
"Of course. Can you carry me though? My foot is really fucked up."
I caught her eye and we stared at one another for a moment. She was the same Ellie as always. Only now there was an entire storm between us. And there was Todd, taking up too much fucking room.
I leant forward, gently took her in my arms and she dutifully linked her own arms around me and rested her head gently against my chest. Without a word, I carried her into the dark green forest at the heart of the island.
It was a dream. A dirty, delicious fantasy. My woman. Half naked, unable to flee. I was hungry, and angry, and who knew if either of us would see another day.
She was heavy, but I knew she was sensitive about her weight and so I tried as hard as I could to not show any strain. None of us had had a drop of fresh water or a bite to eat since the night before, but I wasn't going to let that get in the way. I picked my way over twisted branches, and the light grew dimmer around us as we crept deeper and deeper into the growth. It was an alien landscape, all broad leaves and twisting plants that clamored over ones another, so that you couldn't make out one individual plant in the whole mess. Maybe she'd be more thrilled to come out here with me if I was brandishing a manly machete.
"Is this really happening, Anthony? How did we even get here? I still can't believe that any of this is happening. Like this is all just a dream and any second I'm going to wake up in my bed, on the ship, and you'll be there with me and none of this would ever have happened..."
We had come to a clearing in the trees, and I lowered her down onto a soft mat of moss ringed loosely with ferns. It was completely shaded, silent, and cool in this place.
"It feels like a dream to me as well," I said.
It was the kind of landscape out of which a jaguar could appear, or else a mysterious pygmy warrior. And ancient place. All around us was shadowy, and smelt like damp wood and crushed leaves. I crouched down beside her and stroked my hands down her legs, lingering gently over the scratches and bruises on her pretty skin.
She was strange. Receptive, but different somehow. She couldn't look me in the eyes, but her hands easily went to mine and followed my tracing, guiding them up higher on her thighs to lift the ragged lace of her dress. There was nothing but the sound of our breathing. Even here the wind and soft roar of the ocean was muffled by the wall of vegetation surrounding us.
"I never want to lose you," I said, fingertips finding her naked skin.
Her only response was to lay back a little, and pull her knees up closer around her. She looked like she had something just on the tip of her tongue, something she wanted to say. When she didn't speak, I cleared my throat and spoke myself.
"When I thought you were gone I... it suddenly made me see things so clearly, you know? I don't know I was pushing so hard for the wedding, Ellie, but when it comes down to it, that's not what really matters. I don't mind if you want to wait another few months and--"
"Shhh!"
I looked at her but her eyes were glued to some spot in the trees behind me.
"Ellie?"
"I think there's someone there," she whispered and pointed.
The bulge in my trousers was clearly visible when I sprang up and stood between her and the noise. She noticed it. And I noticed her noticing it. She hobbled to her feet, winced silently and came to creep beside me as we moved to a parting in the trees and tried to find the source of a soft rustling noise. My heart was pounding in my ears.
I pulled some long creepers aside and created a window we both looked into. To my amazement, her hand went down to touch me. Like a secret little mouse, her fingers ran over my body and cupped loosely over the bulge there. Still staring straight ahead, she began to stroke me idly. I couldn't tell if I was terrified of what was in the bushes or so maddeningly turned on that the she didn't even think it necessary to stop what she was doing. I throbbed painfully in her hands, the thrill of her touch shooting all through me and making it very hard to focus indeed. But in a second, the source of the noise became clear.
"Look, it's them," she whispered so quietly it was almost inaudible.
Two pale, naked bodies appeared out of the dense jungle. It was hard at first to understand the writhing knot of limbs in front of us, but one thing was clear: they were having sex. Right there, a few yards in front of us in a similar mossy clearing secluded by tangled branches. They hadn't seen us. I felt like everything in my body stopped working - my breath, my brain, my heartbeat - and I suddenly became one thing and one thing only: my cock.
We both froze on the spot; no motion except for Ellie's deviant little hand moving slowly but smoothly over me. Outrageously, her hand now slipped under the band of my trousers and onto my naked flesh, pulling long, secret strokes over my stiff cock. I snapped a glance over at her but her eyes were glued on the squirming couple in the bushes ahead. The sense of everything being a dream was getting deeper, and weirder.
I could do nothing but watch. And feel. And swallow hard as her expert fingers still seemed to remember where to touch me. At least some things hadn't been destroyed by the wreck. My mind switched off and I found my body responding on its own to what was unfolding around me.
I was hungry. I was dehydrated. Maybe even traumatized. But there was something so disgustingly hot about watching those two, knowing that Ellie was watching everything as well, and that she liked it, and that I could feel how much she liked it when the pace of her hand slowly picked up...
The geometric tattoos on the guy's shoulder rippled and pulsed as he curled again and again into the softness of his wife's body beneath him. I couldn't make out much of her form, except for an outstretched thigh that clung to him desperately and the full curve of her bouncing breast. They fucked feverishly, secretly, trying to stay quiet. It was wrong, watching them like that, but my body had already approved and I soon felt myself edging closer, panic rising as I wondered how I could stifle a groan in the dark, leafy stillness of this weird Eden we had stumbled into. Ellie stared and stared, hypnotized. She was timing her strokes with the wet slapping sounds coming quietly from the couple before us. It was the sexiest, dirtiest thing I'd ever done. And I couldn't believe I was doing it with her.
When I whimpered, she shot me a wide-eyed look and then darted her eyes back to the couple. I nearly had a heart attack to see that they had stopped moving, and were now pricking their ears, aware perhaps that they weren't alone. I tensed my muscles and made as though to dash off, but Ellie stood firm, holding me tightly and giving me a strange pleading look. I swear she was close to making me come there and then, and she knew it.
What happened next was nothing I could have expected. The couple exchanged some quiet words with one another, and, easy as can be, the woman twisted her head to the side, turned her face fully to where we were hiding and immediately made eye contact with Ellie. But she didn't flinch. In fact, neither of them did. It was as though they were both bewitched by the other. He buried into her neck and, to my amazement, began to slowly fuck her again; all while her eyes were pinned shamelessly on Ellie.
I was about to say something but Ellie's hand started to work desperately over me again, stroking more quickly this time, and it felt so good I could scarcely summon the will to push her off. We stayed locked together like this, the woman and Ellie holding each other's gaze, them screwing over there and Ellie stroking me quickly to an orgasm over here. Is that what we'd come to? Barely a day on this island and we were rutting in the forest like depraved savages?
As angry and uncomfortable and disgusted as it made me, my cock was still rock hard and threatening to explode any second. I was sure I was well-hidden, and I could barely see the other two that well, but that didn't matter. It was in the eyes. It was in how utterly brazen Ellie was being, how she didn't hesitate, not even for a second. My eyes nearly popped out of my skull when a rustle made me look down and notice that Ellie's other hand was under her dress, bobbing just as furiously between her legs as the other one. Her knees bent softly and parted, and she bit her lower lip again and again as she gawped at the spectacle.
When the woman in the bushes came it was like a sexy chain reaction that couldn't be stopped. It was a strangled, tortured little moan that began as an animal-like whimper and then, with each successive thrust of her husband's hips, escaped her control and shattered the silence.
"Fuck!" she cried, and he grunted hard on top of her, delivering a few last violent thrusts before collapsing heavily on top of her. Still, even still she held Ellie's gaze, and in the next heartbeat Ellie's legs seemed to buckle under her and her spine arched as she threw her head back and succumbed to her own orgasm.
The sound of that hot, sweet little surrender from her lips was enough to push me right over the edge, and I shot big, juicy gobs of cum all over her hand and onto the dark green leaves hiding us.
I groaned and shuddered in her small hands as she squeezed and milked me, the waves of her own orgasm not distracting her from her rhythm. Pulsing hard and twitching as I came down, I looked over to see her with a strange, naughty look on her face. She was squeezing her knees together, her eyes nearly rolled back into her head. Looking to the couple again, I could no longer see them anymore, and realized that they were probably already moving out, getting dressed quickly and running off.
It took me a moment to catch my breath. I stared at Ellie. She stared at me.
"You liked that," I said. I didn't know if it was a question or a surprised statement.
"You did," she said and wiped the white off her hand on the front of my trousers. I mean, the evidence was certainly there.
"Are you gonna get us out of here?" she whispered.
Gathering myself, I reached over, hoisted her up and tried to pad my way through the growth and back to the shoreline. I could feel her heart beat against my chest. I could smell the sweat off her.
"They saw us," I said.
"Oh yes, they certainly did."
"They didn't care," I said.
She paused before replying.
"I don't think I cared either."
"That was wrong, Ellie. I don't know what to say but ...what happened back there, that was..."
"Kind of hot?"
I said nothing. This whole situation suddenly took on a dirty, sour tone and I didn't like it one bit. She disgusted me. The couple we had 'spied' on disgusted me. But more than all of that, I was disgusted with myself, and the fact that I had come harder than I had in as long as I could remember.
Chapter 11 - Todd
She had torn the lower half of her shirt off, turning it into a tight crop top that exposed her midriff. She claimed it was to make more bandages for Ellie's leg. But I knew why she had really done it.
We had worked for the last hour to put together our little sand dwelling: a seven foot by seven foot cube in the cool, packed sand, bolstered on the inside by tree branches and protected overhead by Ellie's woven palm frond roof.
It had come together surprisingly fast, and when the daylight seemed to reach its apex and wind down into the late afternoon, I felt more confident that we'd be OK through the night. Another storm was definitely brewing, and the mood around our 'camp' grew darker as the light slowly left the sky. But I knew we'd be OK. We had made it this far. If I could only find a way to beat off Charlie's advances and get something to eat by the time the sun went down, I'd call this day a success.
She was standing over the fire now, looking triumphant.
"You're still mad, just admit it," she said as she looked down at the flames.
"Would you drop it? I don't care anymore, really."
"You don't care somebody tried to drug you?" She pushed some sand around the fire with her foot to make a windbreak.
"Well, shit, Charlie, what do you want me to say?"
She shrugged and frowned, crouching down to shape the sand with her hands.
"It's hard for me too, Todd. I don't know why I did it. But last night, when I didn't know if any of us would even live to the morning, I really got to thinking..."
I tried to ignore her yacking and focus on the task at hand. I was exhausted and my muscles ached, but I wouldn't stop till I knew I'd tied these branches on as firmly as I could.
"I realized that I want to live my life differently, Todd. I had a breakthrough moment, and something just ...snapped. I had an insight. Why I am like I am. I felt so bad about what I did to you, and it seemed like the end was so close, you know? And I realized, I needed to change, I needed to be different..."
"Could you just hold this for a second?" I said. She came forward and held down a piece while I twisted some fiber around it to bind it to the others.
"Are you even listening?" she asked as I worked away. I tied a knot, wiped my brow and looked out over the choppy ocean water.
"Charlie, no offense, I'm glad you're feeling better, but I think all that stuff's your own business."
Her expression fell.
"I was just trying to apologize, to explain--"
"You don't have to explain anything," I said and looked her straight in the eyes. "I get it. I'm not mad. Can we just stop talking about it, please?" I had the strong sense that this conversation hadn't exactly gone the way she planned it.
"So, you and that girl... what's going on with that?" she said, trying to sound casual.
The look I gave her was harsh, but I didn't feel too guilty about that. She immediately shut up.
"I'm done talking Charlie, about this or any other topic."
We both worked silently on our pit for a while, she tamping down the sand walls and me checking for holes in the 'ceiling'. I wanted to see Ellie again. I didn't care about her meathead fiancé. I didn't care that I couldn't have her. I just had to see her again. As pathetic as it was, the thought that I may get the chance to huddle close to her in this two-bit dwelling tonight was something small to look forward to.
Charlie was over at the fire again, this time swirling around the mussels in the ashes with a stick, sending steam billowing into the air.
"You know, you might as well forget about her," she said quietly.
"What?"
"That girl. She's taken. It sucks but you're not going to get anywhere with that."
I said nothing.
"But I'm here."
I stopped my work and looked at her.
"You can hate me as much as you want, but we work well together, Todd, and you know it. I've kept quiet for a long time, but I don't know, I guess being out here and with things being the way they are, I can finally just be blunt with you. I'm available. OK? I'm here. Maybe it's fate. But the offer's there. I want you. There, I said it."
I let out a long, low sigh.
"Charlie, I told you how I feel about relationships, and how I'm not ready to--"
"Who said anything about a relationship?"
She stirred the mussels again, their blue shells clinking in the fire. It wasn't enough food. Not by a long shot.
Why was I resisting her, anyway? If help didn't come to rescue us, I didn't see how we'd survive for long out here. Charlie made me uneasy, and she always had. But did that matter now? With my brief little Ellie fantasy gone up in a puff of smoke? I frowned as I realized Charlie wasn't exactly being unreasonable. She was a fit, no-nonsense woman and she was offering me sex. Could I live with myself if I took her up on her offer? If I wasn't even going to live anyway, did that change anything?
"Tonight," she said, "after it gets dark, let's go off somewhere, just you and I. I think I saw some interesting things over that way. What do you say?"
Before I could answer, some rustling in the bushes announced the arrival of the married couple, who came marching over towards us with a bundle of roots and leaves tied up with a vine. They both looked a little flushed. I'm not sure what I was expecting, but they seemed almost suspiciously happy for people who were stranded on a desert island and had no escape in sight.
"We have no idea what this stuff is but we tried some and it tastes OK, no ill effects so far," Carl said and dumped the bundle by the fire. "I don't know what these leaves are but Livvy says they taste a bit like rocket, so we could try eating them."
Charlie and I started to examine the bundle just as Anthony came clamoring through the same bushes with Ellie in his arms. They, too, had strained looks on their faces. Nevermind. Everyone's nerves were fried, that was understandable. Charlie and I exchanged knowing looks but I put my head back down and got to work stripping the tough skin off what looked like an edible tuber.
"I see the mussels have gone onto the fire," Anthony said.
The last thing I wanted to do was talk to that useless fucker so I held my tongue.
"Yeah," Charlie said, "they're OK, trouble was, a lot of the shells were empty."
"Empty?"
"Yeah, next time you should check inside - not all of them had a mussel inside, or else the mussel was dead and gross, you know?"
Anthony nodded but looked like he was trying hard not argue with her. I've dealt with men like him all my life: they think that because they're a big shot in one area, they're automatically big shots in every area. That if he has a fancy law degree, it means he couldn't possibly suck at knowing how to gather mussels. Well, if he thought we weren't going to call him out on the fact that he failed at his only task on this island, he had another thing coming.
Everyone sat silently around our meager dinner, a little dejected. The couple sat together on the sand and the rest of us found a few seats in misshapen pieces of driftwood. A few crudely steamed mussels and a handful of raw roots was hardly a nourishing dinner, but by the looks on everyone's faces, it was better than the gnawing hunger that had been growing all day. I looked out over the fading sunset and thought about the size of the problem we were really facing. Even if we found food, another day would always come, the challenge would reset and we'd need to find it all over again.
Anthony was now looking over the dwelling, examining the rough 'stitches' I'd made to loop Ellie's frond mats together.
"No way this'll hold if the wind picks up," he said matter-of-factly. I lifted my eyebrows at him.
"You're welcome to build your own hut, buddy."
Though everyone was silent, I could feel their attention swivel over to us. I was tired, hungry and miserable, but I wasn't averse to kicking this guy's ass if he came looking for it a second time today.
"Todd, please," Ellie said. Anthony shot her a dark look.
"The mussels are ready," Charlie said and sprang to her feet. "Looks like everybody gets four of them, plus some roots and things to chew on. It's too dark to go swimming out there now, but tomorrow we can gather more, and maybe get some fish, too."
I hated to admit it to myself, but I was thinking about her offer. Thinking about how good it would be to have one hard, angry fuck, just once, just to get it out of my system and clear my head. I noticed how the cooling night air was bringing tiny goosebumps to the skin on her belly.
"I'll go and hunt for the mussels tomorrow," I said.
Anthony flung aside a rock he had been passing from hand to hand and glared at me.
"Yeah? Well, you do that then. I'll stay here and build us a shelter that's not going to cave in and kill us all in our sleep, deal?"
I said nothing. My fists were itching and I wanted nothing more than to show this guy what I thought of him. But it wasn't worth it. Ellie wasn't mine. There was no use being angry about something that never could have happened, and wasn't ever going to. She had made a mistake. I was just a quick holiday she took from her real life, a life she seemed firmly plugged back into now.
"It's not much, but it'll hold," I said and stared into the fire. "I hope y'all are happy to huddle close tonight. We're all going to get to know each other real well..."
"Oh, I think we're all already well acquainted," Livvy said and caught Ellie's eye. They just stared at each other for a moment, really intensely.
Strange.
I couldn't put my finger on it, but the look they exchanged was disconcerting.
I didn't understand it.
And I didn't like it.











Chapter 12 - Ellie
Rather than everything gearing down for the evening, it seemed like the darkness only brought things up an uncomfortable notch. The entire island revved up like a machine filled with unseen but scary sounding insects, and weird bird cries punctured the air and kept everyone from falling asleep. The temperature dropped, and everyone's bodies, finally finished with the hard labor of the day, were slowly going cold and stiff inside our makeshift bunker.
We each did our best to bundle up with the shreds of clothing we had remaining, and then we put ourselves down in the sand, the cold and damp underfoot mercilessly covered by a thin mat of ribbed palm fronds knotted together. There was no wriggle room. Livvy was on the far end, mashed into the wall of sand and Carl lay next to her. Anthony was beside him, their backs touching, and I lay in Anthony's arms, one part of me desperate to huddle close for the warmth, the other feeling so claustrophobic I could scream.
In the tense darkness, we listened as another storm gathered momentum to the east of us. In the stillness, Anthony gently caressed my fingers with his. I didn't resist, but I couldn't focus. All I could think about was where Todd and Charlie were, and when they came back, who would lay down beside me in this cramped sand hole. It was oppressive. I was exhausted, but I couldn't sleep. My eyes kept flicking open with every noise outside, every skittish change of the wind, every breath in the lungs of my sleeping companions, who, I hated to admit, were starting to smell.
My stomach hurt. I bounced around the idea that the mussels were bad somehow, that they were going to kill me slowly from the inside, but then I realized the grumbling was because I was still hungry. And thirsty too. Anthony's hand stroked and stroked and stroked, and eventually it felt like a torture and I yanked my hand away. Things were too tightly packed, there was too much to think about, and it was all too close, and I just wanted to fall sleep and wake up somewhere else, far away from here, in my old life. Or maybe a completely new life.
"You don't have to hold back, if you want to."
I pricked my ears.
Carl's voice sounded disembodied, like it came from the palms above us or maybe even from the stars peeking through the cracks between them.
"What do you mean?" I said. In the darkness, it was obvious that everyone was listening closely. Outside, beetles whirred madly in the forest and the crashing waves seemed to be climbing up the shoreline one scraping step at a time.
"You know what I mean. You're a young couple and... well, we wouldn't mind if you needed to, you know..."
The wave of nausea that passed over me this time was definitely not hunger related. What had happened with them in the forest ...I had no explanation for, but I was certainly banking on them being as disconcerted as I was afterwards and never mentioning it again.
Anthony scoffed.
"In here? Now? With you both? Um, thanks but we're good," he said and pressed closer to me in an effort to put distance between Carl's back and his.
"Look, we don't mean any offense," Livvy said quickly. "Carl and I are just very open, very relaxed about this kind of thing. We've all been traumatized by everything's that happened, I know. But there's no point being squeamish and weird about these things, right? It's only natural. And we don't know how long we'll be out here for."
I heard Anthony laughing low under his breath, but it was a cold laugh.
"Well, that's considerate, but again, no thanks," he said curtly, and wriggled some more. He was too close again. I hated the couple's forced familiarity, but I was beginning to think that Anthony's wasn't much better. Was it too late to start digging a tiny hole of my own, in the pitch black, with a storm coming?
"We used to be like you both," Carl was now saying. His voice still sounding so far away. "But it's funny how impending mortality can make you really take a fresh look at life, and what's really important."
"What's important right now is that we all try to get some sleep," Anthony snapped. He always used that particular tone of voice when he was uncomfortable. I think he thought it made him sound authoritative. I thought it made him sound brittle.
"Is it a religious thing? Are you both waiting for marriage or something?"
The silence in the pit smothered us like a blanket. The fronds overhead rustled hard as the wind picked up and blew over our shivering bodies.
"Look, this conversation is simply no longer appropriate," Anthony said.
Carl laughed. "Well, you're welcome to retire to the gentleman's lounge for a cigar instead, if you like. Look man, I'm not getting on your case, it's just that, well, have you noticed the situation we're in? I think trying to make conversation with your fellow shipwreck mates is perfectly appropriate here."
"Carl, we all need to sleep. And no, discussing our sex life with two strangers is not appropriate."
"So it is a religious thing then? You kind of give off that vibe."
Livvy giggled.
"Are you serious right now?" I could feel Anthony's body tightening up against mine in anger. "That's got nothing to do with anything. You don't have to be religious to not want to have sex in front of other people."
"Oh? And what about watching?" came Livvy's voice.
Again our bunker fell silent. The whistling of the fronds was getting higher in pitch. Thunder bouldered off in the distance like something terrible coming for us. I wanted to jump in and say something, say that we had never meant to stumble on them, that it was an honest mistake and that if they hadn't wanted to be ogled then they should have stopped, should have hidden themselves better, something. If there was any sexual inappropriateness here, it was their fault, not ours.
"That was an honest mistake," I said quietly, when it seemed like nobody else was going to say anything. The second I spoke, though, I knew it wasn't quite true. We could have easily looked away, walked on, something.
But we didn't.
They were right, of course. These weren't ordinary times. We were squashed together like sardines in a pit on the beach of a remote island and none of us knew how we were going to survive the next few days. It did make it seem just a little less important to fret about privacy at a time like this, I guess.
"Well, suit yourselves. I suppose some people's defenses are so strong even life or death situations can't budge them, huh?"
Anthony grumbled under his breath.
"Speaking of defensive," Livvy said. "Where's Charlie? And Todd? They must have gone off more than an hour ago."
Folded tight in Anthony's arms, I prayed that my body gave no indication that the mere mention of Todd's name had my curiosity piqued. But I was curious. Very curious. They had casually set off just after sunset without really saying where they were going or why. The pit was silent as everyone went off on their own thoughts of what Charlie and Todd were possibly doing.
It was a nightmare, all of this. I was stuck in a literal sand pit with a creepy free-love married couple, a fiancé who I couldn't figure out if I wanted to blame or beg forgiveness from, and a head full of thoughts for another man who was at this moment doing something with some other woman. I didn't want to imagine exactly what he was doing. But then, it was all I could think of. It was only our first night on this godforsaken island and already it felt like my entire world had been twisted and knotted up beyond belief. I wondered how good a life could it have been, if it came apart so easily?
"They'll come back," Anthony said. "Let's just keep warm and keep our noses out of other people's business, shall we?"
I knew what he was thinking. Todd and Charlie could fall into quicksand and never be seen again and he'd be happy for it. I couldn't seriously be angry that he was jealous about Todd, could I?
Carl muttered something inaudible and the pit went quiet again.
It was so quiet that when the first drops of rain fell, we could hear each one pattering against the fronds, first softly and then louder until it made a steady, low thrum outside. Miraculously, beside a few stray drops, we remained dry. My fingers were raw from braiding and knotting those leaf ribbons, but it had evidently been worth it. I sat in pleased silence as the wet and noise outside stayed outside.
"Nice work with the roof," Anthony breathed, and started stroking my fingertips again. I couldn't explain it, but something about the simple triumph of knowing that we had, in just this small way, beaten the elements made me want to sing inside. Maybe we would get off this island, some way, somehow. Maybe I'd go back home with Anthony, and all of this would just be some hilarious, unbelievable anecdote. And I'd have a spring wedding with a freesia bouquet and Anthony and I would silently forgive each other everything, having learnt our lesson. We'd go back to our lives like people came back from wars - grateful, humble, and silent. This was just the part of the documentary to show how bad it got before it got better. This would pass. The sound of the rain falling on my makeshift roof outside was proof of that, and I felt it deep in my cold bones.
"I'm sorry about everything..." I said to Anthony. He said nothing and simply stroked my brow.
"I'm just happy we're safe," he said.
Maybe we'd live here forever. Maybe Todd and Charlie were being washed away out to the ocean as we spoke and we'd simply have to start up our own civilization in this strange Eden, from scratch, Anthony, two Eves and a slightly creepy Adam. Maybe we'd live here for twenty years and forget to speak English and devolve into savages who ran around naked and ...wife-swapped. Maybe a rescue boat was on its way to us right now, and everyone in the real world knew we were gone, and were all watching their TVs to see what the latest was.
Maybe, maybe, maybe. Maybe everyone would die here except Todd and I, and we'd grow lean and tanned on mussels and wild berries and we'd fuck all day long until we both forgot where we even came from.
My eyes snapped open.
Jesus, Ellie, what a terrible thought.
The rain came down hard all around us. A solid, continuous low hum took over until there was nothing else to focus on. I couldn't sleep, but my exhausted mind unplugged all the same, and went off wandering with the rain serving as a weird soundtrack to eerie images that sprang up before my mind's eye.
It must have been the trauma, like Livvy said. It must have been all the sun and water and fresh air. What else could explain the fact that as the rain came down pelting all around us, I felt ...turned on?
We were all in very grave danger, the world outside was unknown and threatening, death was only a few clear steps away from us. We were lost. Stranded. My stomach ached with emptiness and my hands and feet were raw. And yet, there was still something delicious about it all. We were on a land mass with an unknown name and location. No rules, no buildings or roads or anything made by man, nothing. Just us, as we were now, nothing but the clothes on our backs and the strength in our muscles, a few human pups in a warm nest against the rain. It made me want to... be different. Be new.
Was this the adventure I had been looking for all my life? Perhaps it had never been new relationships or parties or vacations that I was looking for. Perhaps it was here all along, hiding and waiting for me in a smelly dug out hole on a tiny island in the Pacific Ocean. It must have been the trauma that flashed those dark, unthinkable thoughts through my mind. Those thoughts that saw me not just losing control, but flinging it aside with force.
I left my body there, curled up dutifully with Anthony, but my mind went off on its own secret, forbidden adventure. And as though I was taking out some dirty treasure, I took out the memory of kissing him, and relished it. The rain in the storeroom had been a little like this. That moment was now lost; smashed to smithereens and sunk to the bottom of the ocean forever. Or was it?
My mind kept coming back to one point, again and again. I had to split up with Anthony. For him, and for me. No matter what else blew into my brain those weird, lonely hours, the end point was always the same: getting married was a bad idea, and as soon as possible, I needed to end it all.
When I stopped trying to resist the thought, my shivering body let go, and I fell asleep easily.
Chapter 13 - Charlie
Forget about the others," I yelled. "We're the real survivors here, you and I."
I had to really shout to make my voice heard over the din of rain roaring down all around us. It was dark and muggy but as I paced behind him, I could still make out the carved ripples and knots of his toned back in front of me. I followed him with each hypnotic step as we marched through the forest, the rain coming down hard and pummeling all the surrounding foliage flat.
"I don't care, it's not right," he said and went back to walking. I in turn went back to watching the muscles in his neck and shoulders work with each difficult step. The ground was turning to mud beneath our feet and there was nothing even resembling a path, but I knew we were close to our little bunker now. It was time to speak up. I had to say my peace while we were still alone.
"Fine, then we should head out and get help for everyone. How long could it take us both? We'll head out first thing tomorrow morning, before sunrise, and we'll go all day until we find help."
"But we should tell them what we found, Charlie. We're all in this mess together, and we have to get out of it together."
I frowned.
When I had stumbled on an old, moss-covered canoe in the forest a few hours earlier, I was taken aback. I immediately had a million questions. But in truth it only took a few minutes for me to forget about wondering where it came from or whom it used to belong to. I just saw that it could take us away from here. That was all that mattered.
"The boat's tiny, Todd, even fitting two in there is a squeeze. I don't want any drama."
"Why would there be drama? It feels wrong just taking the boat for ourselves."
"But we found it, we should be the ones to use it and leave."
"No, you found it. Why don't you just leave on your own then?"
It was embarrassing how transparent I was. But sure, fine, he had me pegged. I had stumbled on a way out of here and I had one extra seat on the boat, why wouldn't I choose him?
I walked on angrily behind him. I had to try another tack.
"Look, Todd, you can't change the facts: there's one boat, and two people can fit in it. There are six of us on the island. That boat is our only hope right now. Do you trust any of the others to be able to navigate it? Seriously? Fuck, we'll just have another shipwreck on our hands!"
He still said nothing.
"That couple? I don't think they could make it back to the mainland and if they could, I don't really trust them to come back, do you? And Anthony and the girl? Not to be funny, but she can barely stand upright on her own. That leaves you and me. And if we tell them, they'll only want to argue, and frankly, we don't have the time to waste..."
He stopped walking for a moment and stared at the ground.
Without his shirt on, rivulets of clear water snaked all over his strong form. It was a good look on him: wild guy in some tropical paradise, beads of water prickling on his close-cropped hair... too bad he had such stupid taste in women. It was no big deal, though. In the end, Todd was a practical man, and I knew how to speak his language. The others were hopeless. With me, he at least had a chance of getting out of this hellhole and back to civilization. Even he couldn't deny that that was an attractive proposition.
"Ellie needs medical help," he said. "Her foot is in pretty bad shape."
"OK? So let's go and bring her back some help then."
"No, she won't last long if she doesn't get help soon. She needs to go on the boat."
"But--"
"Her and I will go. I can manage to paddle on my own. There's plenty of wood around here to make a simple oar and like you said, we'll leave in the morning and go as fast as we can out east."
My face stung with the effort of holding off the tears.
"You can't--"
"That's the best way, Charlie. You're a good rower, sure, and I know you won't take offense when I say this... but I'll be able to go quicker."
A few hours before, I had been on top of the world, sure that my new discovery would finally be the thing that gave me an edge. Sure, I didn't have a pretty white cleavage and a torn cocktail dress, but when it came down to it, I was useful. The fact that Todd wanted to disappear with her was a kick to the guts more brutal than anything we'd done on any training run so far.
He turned to carry on walking. The rain let up a little and I could tell we were close to our base camp. It was now or never.
"Todd, wait."
He glanced back at me, his tired face streaked with water.
"Todd, I'm the one that found the boat."
"I know you did."
"I get some say in what happens to it."
"Fine, Charlie, but this really is the best way--"
"You can go with her, I don't care, just..."
He searched my face.
"Just, on one condition," I said quietly.
"What ...condition?" he asked slowly. I hated how hard his face was right now. But I didn't care anymore. It was now or never. I was tired of holding everything together only to be passed over for people who had never contributed a thing in their lives. Tired of working my ass off to be considered second class, of beating everyone at the game and yet still feeling that I always, always fucking lost.
"You know what I want, Todd," I said quietly and, despite the hostile rain and the anger smeared all over his face, I tried to smile at him with gentleness, or at least the closest I could get to it. A light went on in his expression when he understood what I was suggesting, followed immediately by a shocked laugh. Ah, there was that kick to the gut again. Utterly hilarious, even suggesting something with me.
"You know, Charlie, I'm beginning to suspect you have serious mental health problems." He turned to carry on walking again but I grabbed his bicep and he spun around to glare at me.
"Todd, I'm serious."
"I'm serious too. The answer is no, if that wasn't fucking obvious."
"Then you can't have the boat."
He shrugged my grasp off, hard.
"The boat's not yours, Charlie. You don't get to blackmail people when--"
"I've already moved it. You don't know where it is. Only I know."
A little shred of triumph flickered inside me, but I couldn't return his gaze. I stared instead down at the mud pooling around my soaking feet. There, I had said it. I mean, I couldn't sink any lower. There was no other way for me to get what I wanted and it simply wasn't an option to let Todd go. I just wouldn't let that happen. I could tell that he didn't like it. But as I stood there before him and let him stare at me in disbelief, I realized that his liking it wasn't even necessary, not at this point.
I get what I want in this world because I'm smart and work hard. It would have been sweet if Todd gave me a second chance, but given that he wasn't going to, I was just going to have to take it. He'd come to his senses in the end anyway. He'd see what I saw, he'd realize all this bullshit with Ellie was just an embarrassing mistake and that I was the right one for him, and always had been. We needed to be willing to do all sorts of things to survive on this island, to eat and stay warm and dry, because those things were important. Todd was as important to me, and if I had to go to extreme measures to make sure that what we shared together survived, then so be it.
"You're crazy," he said at last.
I brushed past him forcefully.
"And you don't have a boat," I said. "Unless you agree to my conditions."
"Save yourself then. Take Ellie and go," he said, his face now filled with pleading. It was disgusting, how far he was willing to go for some dumb tramp he'd met only two seconds ago. I couldn't believe what I was hearing.
"You do realize that even if you play her knight in shining armor, she's still engaged to be married, right?"
"She's hurt and she needs help, Charlie. The rest of us might make it for a few days more but she--"
"Nope. If you turn me down, then I go on my own and leave all of you fools behind."
"And if I agree to your condition, you'll show me where the boat is? And you'll let me take Ellie?"
I nodded.
"And you'll stay behind?"
I nodded again. "If we ...you know. Before you leave."
He stared at me slack jawed.
"My god. You're actually crazy. That doesn't make any damn sense."
I said nothing. Maybe he had a point. But maybe I didn't care. I had played my last card and now there was nothing but to wait for him to play his. He walked on. I could make out the shape of our little ground hut a short way in the distance.
"I'll think about," he said in a clipped voice. "Give me till morning. And don't fucking say anything to anyone. And I haven't said yes."
I held my tongue as we approached the pit. The white of Carl's mostly bald head poked out from the end and he smiled as we lowered ourselves down inside and he closed up the roof over us. It was damp and steamy and nearly suffocating inside; the last place I wanted to be. Nobody said anything as we settled down to the ground, our wet clothes gluing us together. He didn't even think twice about lowering himself to lie down next to her. I had no choice but to wedge myself down between him and the damp sand wall. It was a vision of hell, no question about it. But I wasn't afraid of a little mud, or a little foul play. Come morning, I'd have what I wanted.
One way or another.
Chapter 14 - Anthony
It was one of those dreams that didn't end, but bled over into waking life, slowly, so I wasn't quite sure where exactly the dream ended and real life began.
We were all in a grave. A damp, sandy grave, buried beside one another in a grey heap. We were naked. Dead but still writhing somehow. We had left the realm of the living and were in a temporary hell underneath the earth, were the darkness hid our nudity. Like worms, curling and twisting over one another. And then I became aware that it was also sexual, that we were all participating in some kind of carnal rite, mashed into the earth and forgetting everything but our animal needs, squirming against one another desperately, crushing our bodies together as though we wanted to melt the boundaries of our skin and become a single hot, sordid mass...
It was only when I blinked my eyes open that I realized I had been dreaming at all. But we were in a grave. And we were packed tight against one another. The only thing remaining of that disturbing dream was my pounding heart and the ache of my erection pressing hard against Ellie's soft belly. But I breathed a sigh of relief: we all still had our regular boundaries in place. I was not going insane. I was not a dissolving, sexually depraved animal. I blinked hard to adjust my eyes to the light. Well, I was not a dissolving, sexually depraved animal just yet.
"Baby? Baby, are you OK?"
Ellie's whisper was faint as a spider web. Her breath felt warm on my chest. I stroked her and kissed the top of her head.
"Just a bad dream," I said.
She shifted her body weight, obviously aware now of the stiff cock wedged between us and wondering how bad a dream it could have really been.
"A bad dream? It couldn't have been worse than this..." she said, and I could hear the smile on her voice. I held her close for a moment. I had about four million nasty, conflicting emotions about Ellie. But this early in the morning, before I had properly woken up, I decided that the angst could wait for later and I would rather just stay nestled here for as long as possible, holding onto the last little threads of a normal life with her.
The pit slowly filled up with light, and I entertained the idea that I could smell morning coming on. There was a freshness in the air, the sea was quiet, and though my muscles were sore, it only made them feel all the better when I stretched out long, feeling my spine crack deliciously.  Today, I would find everyone food. A lot of food. I'd step up and get us closer to a solution. I'd take control like I should have taken control yesterday. Ultimately, we needed to find a way off the island. But first, we had to secure a regular food source, and soon, before any of us started to lose too much energy. Ellie's wound would heal any time now, and then she'd feel less vulnerable and then maybe ...maybe we could go back into the forest.
I throbbed against her. She did nothing to acknowledge me, but I knew she felt it. With Carl nearly plastered to me at the back, and with that asshole Todd sleeping just on the other side of her, it was impossible to imagine anything more than softly grinding against her, softly kissing her hair, softly whispering a secret word.
Whatever drama happened here, Ellie was mine and I was going to do whatever necessary to guard this private, warm space between us. Ellie had been difficult all the time I knew her, but I could look past her flaws. I may have had my suspicions that she wasn't a woman ready for the duties of marriage, but she was ultimately my woman who wasn't ready for the duties of marriage.
I heard stirring and then peeked up to see Charlie standing and raising the roof, letting in bright, yellow triangles of light that soon woke everybody else. Everyone in our pit groaned and stretched, and soon we all peeled ourselves off one another and stepped out into the new morning. I tucked my hard-on into the waistband of my trousers, squeezed Ellie good morning and got up too, stretching my arms high overhead to release the creaks and tension of a fitful night.
Looking at the sun and the way it bobbed low at the surface of the water, I instantly knew what my plan would be: first food, then her. She was scared and confused. And wounded. It wasn't her fault she was behaving like she was. And that immature piece of shit Todd certainly wasn't making matters better. But I felt strongly at that moment that what we needed, and what she needed ... was solidarity. To come together.
We needed whatever that lecherous old married couple had with one another. We needed sweet, sweet release. She always said she wanted more spontaneity, more passion, more spice in our love life. Well, it didn't get more exotic than this.
I watched her limp out of the pit, still in her wilting silk and lace dress, and I was resolved: before sunset this evening, I would have her writhing on my cock and screaming with pleasure. She wanted to do naughty things in the forest? Well I would show her. I could take care of all her needs.
"Jesus, what did I tell you?"
I turned to see Todd snapping angrily at Charlie. She stood back defensive, hands raised. Interesting. Not that I cared much about their weird little love affair, but still. I'd rather they took care of each other so Ellie could focus all her attention where it belonged.
"Just chill out, OK?" Charlie said.
"I've just woken up," Todd responded. "Don't start. I'm ...I'm going to get us all something to eat. I'll swim out to find more mussels."
Carl was listlessly kicking sand around and squinting at the sun as Livvy fanned her shirt to cool herself and then tried to knot the lower end tightly around her midriff. Without the usual civilized distractions of a morning routine, we all felt thoroughly bored after being awake for a mere five minutes.
Charlie shrugged and busied herself with the frond roof, then examined the collapsed and crumpled parts of our shelter. But I could tell she looked a little red in the face.
"Hey Anthony, are you coming with me, man? To gather mussels again?"
In this light, it was obvious what people saw in him. He was ripped. And good looking. But just looking at his stupid face was enough to get the rage boiling up in my veins. I didn't give a shit if he was a marine or a seal or Rambo himself, I wasn't going to play along and be his sidekick.
"Nah, the mussels are a dead end," I said breezily.
He stood there, hands on his hips, looking like he was at a Baywatch audition or something.
"They're not, you just picked the wrong ones last time. There's plenty of food out there if you know where to look."
I sighed and shrugged.
"Then go and look. I'm not wasting my time with it though. I'm going to try something else," I said and started to put my still water-logged shoes back on.
"What are you going to do?" Ellie said. She was perched on the rim of the pit, and her foot dangled down, looking terrible. Scary black stains had seeped through her makeshift bandages. I hated the way it looked, like it was just a bloodied stump hiding under all that swaddling. Perhaps the damage was worse than it looked at first.
I cracked my neck and looked away from the sea, towards the forest.
"I'm going to look for food out there. We'll have better luck with digging for more roots, and I swear I saw some date trees earlier. Maybe I can find a lizard or bird or something."
Everyone looked at me and silently considered the prospect of eating roasted lizard.
"Fine, suit yourself," Todd said and shrugged.
Shoes laced, I stood tall and cracked my neck again and then reached for Ellie. I leaned forward, gripped the back of her neck and pulled her in for a full, passionate kiss. She went stiff in my arms and didn't kiss back. It was a kind of boldness that wasn't really my style, but honestly I hoped that everyone there saw it, and understood exactly what it meant. I lingered, my lips hovering above hers, and pierced her gaze with mine.
"I'll be back soon, baby. Will you be OK here?"
She nodded quickly and glanced away, looking a little like she'd been asked to play a role she didn't really want to.
I stood again and nodded to the others, who were watching with me with interest. The sun was still one third submerged under the horizon. Todd sprang to action, peeled off his shirt and started walking towards the water.
"You're ...you're going now?" Charlie said. She seemed strangely upset. Todd simply ignored her and spoke to the group at large.
"When I come back we'll all eat some seafood for breakfast. Somebody needs to start a fire here in the meantime. Anthony, see if you can make your way back here within an hour or so."
Asshole. Still trying to give me orders.
"I'll be back when I'm back," I said. He scowled up his pretty-boy face at me.
"OK, fine, just be careful."
"Thanks, Todd, but I don't really need you to tell me that."
"I'm just saying. You don't know what's out there. It could be dangerous. If I were you, I wouldn't even bother. Carl and Livvy have tried looking out there already, haven't you?"
The couple nodded at him.
"Our best bet for food now is the ocean."
"If you're too afraid to explore a little, that's fine, Todd. You go for a little swim, and I'll meet you all back here later."
"I'm not afraid..." he said quietly.
But I ignored him and set off. The group broke up and drifted off, each person trying to find some activity. I tried to wave back at Ellie as I made my exit, but she wasn't looking my way. Her eyes were turned to the sea. To him. Determined not to let that fact hurt me, I made for the boundary where the light brush turned into denser forest. I'd be going in the opposite direction the couple had gone, slicing through the denser foliage and towards a knot of thicker trees that from the shoreline looked something like green pillow stuffing. Everyone would see who the real man on this island was soon enough.
After some time, the soft roar of the ocean disappeared and all I could hear were birds overhead and the crunch of twigs underfoot. I don't know how long I walked for. It was strangely exhausting, looking at everything in front of me and trying to decide if it could be eaten or not. I put a few leaves to my lips and tasted here and there, but every single plant on the island seemed either covered in thorns and prickles or else tasted bitter as hell. I walked on, dismissing the growing pain in my feet.
I was hungry.
And horny.
And ...I wasn't even sure what to call the way I felt anymore. I pressed on, occasionally slapping insects off my skin and looking up to notice how far the sun had crept through the sky. I had failed yesterday to deliver with any food of substance. So today there was no question - I had to turn up with something real for everyone to eat or else.
I was never one to beat my chest and go in for the whole alpha male bullshit, but something about Todd easily stepping up to claim that role rankled me no end. It was the sheer arrogance of it. I could also stand around and pose with my shirt off if I really wanted to, but I was a man of action. Of intellect. A six pack was great but that wasn't all that mattered. And nothing would shut him up faster than seeing me return to our little base camp with enough food to win everyone's respect and remind Ellie that although I wasn't a lame-ass navy calendar boy, I damn well knew what I was doing.
A glint caught my eye. I rushed forward, astonished.
Water!
I knelt down at a thin, clear trickle of a stream knobbled on either side with rough moss and rock. I lifted handfuls to my mouth to drink and nearly wept with how sweet and cool that water felt against my parched lips. I must have taken ten or twelve scoops, drinking long and deep and gulping down so hard it almost hurt to swallow. Thirst quenched, I stood and looked around, trying to remember if I could lead everyone back here later. I could picture it now: me up front, guiding everyone expertly, and them in the back, filled with gratitude and respect. In any case it was a good omen. Not food, exactly, but the news that I had found it would definitely go down well.
I carried on walking, so refreshed I felt ready to walk for days now. The foliage around me was growing thinner, though. Carl and Livvy had said that they had done a survey of the island before, but I wasn't so sure about my orientation now - was that really the ocean I heard up in front of me again? I walked on and noticed the dark soil shifting to loose and white again. Yes, it was the ocean. A few yards on and I broke through some hanging vines and there it was: that maddening, hostile blue stripe that trapped us all here. And now it seemed like it was following me.
But it wasn't the same stretch of beach I had come from. And on further inspection I realized I hadn't gotten disoriented at all - this must just be some new part, some other section of a vaguely oval-shaped island. I stepped out onto the finer sand and tried to get my bearings. I realized with frustration that I had no idea where I was. The landscape ahead of me was all different, and the waves here seemed rougher, and they were converging on a smaller, tighter bay.
Again a strange glint caught my eye. I ran over to see what it was and then stared down at the sand, astonished. A glass bottle of Grey Goose Vodka, wedged in the powdery beach sand like a half hidden jewel. I crouched down to touch it and prove to myself it wasn't a hallucination. I then realized there were many more, at least a dozen of them, scattered around me on all sides. I nearly laughed out loud at the blue and white seascape painted onto each label. Mana from heaven? A vision brought on from drinking contaminated water?
I scrambled all over the beach, running from one bottle to the next. Each one was as real as the next, unopened, and twinkling bright in the sunshine like a personal prank played on me by god himself. A recovering alcoholic lands on a desert island with a full crate of vodka ...it sounded like the beginning of a bad joke. Then I saw it: a smashed crate, and a pile of debris still clinging to the sea foam as it lapped up to the shore, lazily piling everything on top of each other.
I ran over and fell to my knees to examine the mess. It was flotsam from the ship, clearly. Perhaps I would be returning to the others with more than I bargained for.
I tore through the pile, pulling off strings of seaweed and dusting away sand and shells. It wasn't a promising selection. It seemed that this had all been tumbled away from one of the bars or restaurants onboard. What looked like torn cotton napkins were folded around some smashed glasses, a single flip flop, a section of an elaborate light fitting, a faux wood strip of paneling, and some weird coiled bits of metal I couldn't identify.
No food.
The most intact elements of the whole mess were the clear bottles of vodka, so pretty ...and so useless. I squinted out to sea to find evidence that anything else might have been washed up, but the view looked as peaceful and clear as the one painted on the vodka bottles.
With some luck, and further scratching around, I found a few packets of peanuts, a perfect bunch of grapes that on further examination was actually made of wax, and a few empty and crumpled plastic bottles. Vodka wasn't the manliest of kills for a hunter to bring back to his tribe, but it was something. And the peanuts I'd give to Ellie.
I spent a good half hour searching for enough long strands of sea grass to fashion a sort of carrier for three of the bottles, combed the beach once more for food and then decided it was time to head back. The sun was already high enough in the sky that it was white and hurt to look at it.
Giving things a second thought, I cracked open a bottle and took a swig, wincing and then scowling at how a liquid so clear could feel so rough. I took another swig, then another. Hell, I wasn't driving. My mission today had gone better than expected and I needed a little celebration. Some well-deserved stress relief, perhaps. After all, if a man can't enjoy a little drink after a life-threatening disaster, when can he? Before I knew it, I had thrown back a quarter of the bottle.
I didn't know why I was doing it; I just knew that there was no clear reason not to. A few moments into my little spasm of rebelliousness and I felt dizzy and sick. I plonked the bottle bank on the sand and waited for the horizon to stop wiggling before my eyes. I decided I wouldn't go back through the forest after all. There really wasn't any food back through there, much as I hated to admit it, and since I was on such a good roll, I might find even more treasure if I kept going.
I'd trace back along the coast line and eventually I'd have to land back up where I started. We were on an island, it made total sense. Perhaps the gods would throw me another strange blessing on the way. I chuckled to myself as I imagined myself stumbling next on a new bottle of fancy vermouth and a can of olives. Maybe Todd would bring everyone some stinking mussels, but what if yours truly pitched up with vodka martinis? I laughed a little to myself but felt sad all of a sudden and then stopped.
I hoisted the clinking bottles higher up my shoulder, bags of peanuts stuffed in my pockets, and walked briskly over the hot sand. I could come back later and see if anything else was washed up. I could empty these bottles and use them to gather the water I'd found. First, though, I had to see Ellie. I had something I wanted to give her.
Well, maybe I had two things I wanted to give her.
Chapter 15 - Todd
Under the silent water, things felt so much calmer. I took another big gulp, threw myself under and kicked hard to propel myself to the sea floor, where I knew there were edible treasures if I could just coax my eyes to stay open long enough to see them. Breath held, I scrambled my hands around and rattled through shells and mollusks of all kinds. Swiftly grabbing a handful of snails and paddling fiercely with the other arm, I floated upwards with ease, my chest filled to bursting with air and my head breaking the water's surface, bringing me out into the sparkling sunshine.
I paddled over to the rocks, deposited my haul into the pile I'd already gathered, and pushed off to go for another lunge. The sun was so bright it was nearly blinding, my muscles felt strong and lithe and perfectly under my control, and the air twinkled around me clean and sweet, like it was a sheer miracle to gulp in huge lungs full of it and descend into that perfect blue.
I left the others this morning with a heavy heart. But this simple task of diving, hunting out little edible creatures and collecting them soon had me forgetting about it all.
It was just me, my free, easy limbs and blue, blue, blue all around. I was in my element. Content and carefree as an otter. This is why I had wanted to join the navy in the first place. I'm not a smart guy. Some might say I have a lousy work ethic and too little ambition. But what else was a man designed to do, but this right here? To use his body to its full extent, to stretch and swim and pull and leap and dive?
It made me happy. And it was a simple, honest happiness, one I could feel running all through my whole body, right to the tips of my toes.
I descended into the water again but came up this time empty handed. It was an opportunity for a break. I shook the water from my hair, and pulled myself up out of the water and onto the jagged island of rocks. I perched on my haunches and offered my bare back to the sun so it could dry the drops off my skin. I couldn't make out anyone on the shore of the main island, and for a moment, I enjoyed pretending it was just me out here, the last man alive, surviving on nothing but my wits and what breath I could hold in my lungs at one time.
The bounty of mussels I'd already gathered plus the snails, a single bright orange crab and two little fish I'd managed to catch would be more than enough to feed everyone for today. And it was protein, too. It would keep up going and strong. And it would help Ellie's wound heal faster.
A splashing sound had me turning around to see what was approaching me.
Charlie.
I stood and looked down as she swam over from some distant place on the shore, breast stroking casually and then hopping up onto the rocks with me.
"I told you to give me another day," I said drily, trying not to look at her. The spell had been broken and my bad mood was returning. She took her time squeezing the water out of her long braids, then came over to examine my haul, tapping the mussel shells with a curious foot.
"Waiting an extra day wasn't part of the deal."
"I'm not haggling over terms with you. Jesus," I said under my breath.
She shrugged.
"Looks like you found quite a bit," she said. I purposefully avoided eye contact.
"If possible, I'll go back in again and get even more. We needed every last scrap we can manage."
"We sure can. Ellie's foot is basically hanging on by a thread, isn't it?" she said, more than a little flippant in her tone.
Perhaps she couldn't understand being kind to someone without expecting anything in return, but I didn't care. I wanted to help Ellie regardless of all the other stuff.
She chuckled a little to herself and nudged one of the mussels with her big toe. I was halfway climbing back into the cool water but shot her a hard look. Something about being on this island was making everyone a caricature of themselves. As though, because there was so little to look at out here, so little to do, we all had turned inwards and become magnified versions of our most striking features. It was early days but we had all broken and fractured just the same as the ship that night, and now we were just people-fragments now, getting worn by the sea and quickly turning strange. The couple were playing out some cheesy Blue Lagoon adventure all by themselves, I had devolved into a sea mammal ...and Charlie had become a full-blown psychopath, no question about it.
"If you want to help, you can start by lugging all of that back to the shore. I'll be over there in a second," I said and made as if to dunk myself under again.
"Todd, wait," she said and crouched down.
"What?"
"Do you remember what you said? That night?"
She was squatting low on her haunches, one wet braid hanging down on either side of her angular face and her tight belly crunched up into a dozen narrow rolls.
"What night?"
"You know what I mean, Todd. Our night together."
I sighed.
"That was a long time ago."
"So? I still remember it clearly. I remember what you said."
I looked up at her, the combination of sun and salt begin to seriously aggravate my eyes.
"Oh? Well I'm sure I've said a lot of shit in my life..."
"You said you loved me," she blurted.
"What?"
She rocked backwards and forwards on her feet, the damp ends of her braids swinging like the dark tips of paintbrushes.
"Don't pretend you don't remember..."
I swallowed hard and briefly considered just swimming away from her now as fast I could.
"I never said that to you, don't be--"
"Oh, you said it all right," she said and rocked forward a little, looking down at me as I floated beneath her in the water. "And you meant it, too. I could see it in your eyes."
For a fleeting second, my mind raced off to a possible future scenario with this woman. Would she just lose her mind and murder everyone? I as beginning to have trouble understanding what her motivations even were anymore. Besides, what she was saying was ludicrous.
"I don't have time for this shit," I said and pushed off the rocks.
"Why do you keep resisting me, Todd? What are you so afraid of anyway?"
I tread the water for a moment, suspended in the blue and hating her for coming out here and ruining my special moment, for pulling me again into a drama I don't ever remember agreeing to take part in.
"You know, Charlie, I'm getting real tired of all this. You're making stuff up. I never--"
"Look at how embarrassed you are!" she laughed.
It was true. The inconvenient fact was that I didn't remember what happened that night. Not really. She had been my first, that much I knew. But the rest I couldn't remember at all. It was just a regrettable, humiliating mistake, but one I had never imagined would follow me for years.
At the time the embarrassment of being sexually inexperienced had proved too much. Charlie was always around, always hinting and pressing, and so she seemed like the natural option at the time. Had I known that she would sink her crazy hooks into me and never let go, I would have gladly stayed a virgin.
"Whatever I said, it's in the past now," I said and ducked under the water again. But when I emerged again with one more small snail, she was still crouching there, still watching me.
"You know, I remember, you made these little girly noises when you came, it was so adorable," she said matter-of-factly.
I pulled myself out of the water and stood dripping next to her, forcing her to shift over on her haunches. I didn't have the energy to be angry any more. I tried to push past her but she stood in my way. She rose up tall, and positioned herself right in front of me, an inch from my face, daring me to do something although I couldn't imagine what. But as sorry as I felt for her, I wasn't going to let her get a rise out of me. She smiled sweetly.
"Fine, Todd, you have one more day. But consider this. For the rest of your life, I might be the last woman you ever get to fuck," she said, speaking slowly and with such a nasty edge it felt like each word was an obscenity. She leaned in, so close I could feel the heat off her body. She looked up to me, lips parted, and for a split second, I wondered if it was worth drawing out her little drama. Giving this insane woman what she wanted was nothing but repulsive to me, but it would get me access to the boat. The same boat that would get both Ellie and I off of this godforsaken island.
The moment froze around us as I wondered if she had the audacity to try and kiss me. But she smiled, brushed past me and then froze in her tracks.
I looked to see what had caught her eye.
It was Ellie, standing on the far end of the rocks, still wet from swimming and daintily carrying her wounded leg behind her. She stopped and stared at Charlie and I with a face that looked like it had just been slapped. Charlie turned to give me one last smirking glance, looked at Ellie and then paced off to the other edge of the rocks. She took one graceful, arcing dive into the water, made a splash and then began swimming back to the main island.
Ellie was pale and stammering, trying to say something.
"I... I didn't mean to interrupt you both, I didn't know ...I'm so sorry," she mumbled and turned around to hobble back into the water.
"Ellie, wait."
I ran over to her and grabbed both her arms. She seemed surprised by this, staring down at the place my hands touched her cool, wet skin. She looked so white.
"What are you even doing out here? Your foot..."
"My foot is fine," she said decisively, but I looked down to see that she had shed some of her old bandages and now the raw, exposed gash was visible and far worse than I first imagined. I instantly knelt down to look at it. I was worried about gangrene. Worried about some parasite getting in there and killing her within hours.
"Oh, don't look at me like that. It looks worse than it is... Besides I think the seawater's good for it. I came out here to help you carry the mussels, since I can still swim pretty well."
I stood again and noticed there were tears welling in her eyes.
"Ellie, are you OK?" I said and touched her shoulder again.
I don't know how exactly it happened, but in one smooth, easy movement she took a step towards me and flung herself in my arms, squeezing me tightly. I pulled her back and searched her face.
"Ellie, we shouldn't--"
She came to me again and this time her lips went to mine, and not one atom in me could resist them.
It wasn't a kiss so much as a melting; a surrender to what we had started with that first secret kiss we shared on the ship this great ocean had swallowed whole a lifetime ago. It was as though all the time that had passed since we had first done this just disappeared, and the watery world around us now shrunk into nothing, just a minor footnote compared to the whole universe which now consisted only of her fluttering breath, and her sweet, juicy lips. It was almost disturbing how the movements of her tongue against mine seemed to stir something wild inside me.
Her hands anchored against my bare chest and I felt her relax her weight against me. Her lips were still wet and salty with sea water. Her hair fell in damp coils on her breasts and pressed against my skin, sending a shockwave of goosebumps all across me. Gently, tentatively, I placed a curious hand at her hip bone and rested it there.
Everything from our old lives had been obliterated. But we were still alive. We still had air in our lungs and blood in our veins. Her warm body was still pulsing with life, and so was mine. We had nothing left. But there was something we did have, right now in this moment.
Desire.
Raw, burning lust that started down low and crackled all through the body like a fever. She made it all seem possible. She made this entire nasty game of survival actually mean something. Her hip felt like a promised land under my fingertips. I didn't care about protein or water or shelter.
I wanted her.
I wanted her so badly I felt in that moment that she was what I had really been starving for all along.
I pulled her towards me and kissed her deeply again, my tongue earnest and delicate, desperate to taste all of her, desperate to feel if the hunger was mutual. Breathless, our kiss came to a natural pause and she pulled back to gaze at me, her eyelashes still sprinkled with tears.
"I feel so stupid about all of this. I mean, I barely even know you Todd..."
"Shhh... it's OK."
I swallowed hard and smoothed away the wet tendrils of hair. I hated seeing that kink in her brow. Her foot was probably infected and maybe she was just delirious, just in shock and not thinking clearly. I had no idea. I just wanted her to kiss me again.
"Anthony and I can't be together anymore," she said plainly.
His name snapped me to attention. I didn't know what to say.
"You ...I don't know what this is, between us. But I know I can't be with him anymore. After the ship wreck it was like something changed in me. I can't explain it. Like when we were in that storeroom, and I thought we were going to die for sure, I just kept on thinking, was that all I had done with my life? Was that who I had decided to be with, in the end? It seemed all wrong."
Except for the waves tossing and splashing quietly around us, everything was silent.
"Ellie, I don't know what's going to happen here. I don't know if any of us are going to make it off this island, or if they'll send help ...I just don't know. I understand you're scared and upset, but don't make any big decisions you may regret..."
She shook her head rapidly.
"No, I know what you're thinking, but I know I'm right. I see things clearly now for the first time in years. Anthony is a wonderful man. He really is. He's just ...he's not for me."
A full wave crashed into the rocks beneath us and broke into a fine spray around us both. I could see that Charlie had long gone and I could make out nobody else on the shoreline.
We were alone. For the first time since the storm struck and everything changed forever, we were alone together. Just her, and I. Her body, and my body.
I wanted to grab her right then and take her on these rocks before I lost my nerve. I wanted to kiss her again, and never stop kissing her, and just release and see where it was that our desire really wanted to take us. She was so beautiful. Her body was an island all on its own, and my real shipwreck had been staring for the first time into those eyes and losing my moorings forever.
She was wild and uninhabited, beautiful but frightening, an unknown world that I couldn't claim, but only visit and hope to survive. I wanted to tear off these last stupid shreds of clothing from both of us and face one another honestly. The truth was I didn't know her that well either. But I felt her. I saw her. What would it matter, if I had met her in the real world and dated her and spent years and years learning about all the pointless shit that clogs up life, like what brand of coffee she preferred or what TV shows she liked as a kid? How could any of that possibly compare to what I felt right now, and could see right now?
She stared back at me sincerely, her salt and pepper hair windswept and joyful as the sea itself, and her eyes open and clear to mine.
"Have you told him all this?" I said quietly. She was still in my arms, still pressing close to me. She looked away and didn't answer.
"Ellie ...I can't interfere in your life."
She sighed and pulled back a little.
"What if we never make it out of here alive? What if this is the last chance either of us get to be honest about what we really want in life?"
It was a deep question. Too much to think about. But then again, nothing like this had ever happened before. The old rules had sunk to the bottom of the ocean along with every other thing we had taken as a given.
"What do you really want then?"
She answered me only with a look. I was instantly hard.
I squeezed her shoulders, kissed her temple and released her.
"Let's get back to the main island. We need to get these things cooked before they go bad. And you need to speak with Anthony."
She gave me the biggest puppy eyes.
"Ellie, I don't know what to say. But I'm here for you. Whatever you need. I'm going to do what I can to help you, OK?"
I briefly indulged in a fantasy of what she might say when she saw the boat, when she knew I'd be the one taking her away from here, back to the real world and to safety. But she had to break her ties to Anthony first. I couldn't do that for her. Part of me wanted to just throw her over my shoulder and claim her for my own, sure. She wanted me, and I wanted her, and by any natural law that seemed like the only thing that mattered. But in the real world, it wasn't enough. She had to leave him of her own accord. I couldn't force her hand.
We both slipped quietly into the cold water again, and waded out into the depths. She could swim surprisingly well, but I could tell her leg was still hurting her.
"How bad is it?" I asked once we had paddled out a few yards.
"Oh, I'll survive," she said through a tight smile. But every glance from her now had something extra hidden inside it. Twice now we had shared furtive kisses. Twice now I had started something that I shouldn't have. Especially because now all I could think of was how I wanted more.
"Let me help you," I said and swam closer to her.
Beneath us the bright blue gradually gave way to jade green and then a dimensionless, inky color even deeper below that. Warm and cool currents licked over us as we swam through the water. I linked my arm through hers and tucked myself under her, so I could support her weight in the way we'd been trained to if ever a marine was drowning or unconscious.
She was light, and perfectly buoyant in the water. Her cool, smooth skin slipped easily over mine as I held her on top of me and proceeded to kick hard to propel us both back to shore.
She didn't say anything. She didn't need to. It was a peaceful, profoundly erotic moment that felt as close to heaven as I could ever hope for here on earth. To the side, I could make out her long, nearly-blonde wisps of hair snaking rhythmically in the water.
My cock was fully hard again, but I didn't try to conceal anything from her. By now, she had already understood my position when we exchanged glances on the rock a moment ago, so what good would playing coy be now? I could feel the contours of her body through the wet fabric of her dress.
When she stopped kicking, and lay back completely to let me support her, I happily kicked harder to keep us both afloat. And when she gently reached her hand back to pass cautious, secret fingers over the swollen bulge in my trousers, I let her.
Chapter 16 - Ellie
I know the timing could have been better," I said. "But I've been feeling this way for months now. I know how hard you try, and how hard you work, but everything that's happened recently has just made me think more carefully about things and now I can admit that this relationship is just not what I want anymore."
With my remaining good foot, I kicked at the ground and sent a white plume of beach sand into the air. I cleared my throat. No. This wasn't meant to be some horrible confession, or a therapy session. I needed to just be honest, just say what I knew we had both been thinking.
"It's not that I'm unhappy with you, Anthony, it's just that I'm not exactly happy." I kicked another plume. No, that sounded way too dramatic, even given the circumstances.
I couldn't mention Todd. And really, Todd had nothing to do with it anyway. He was a catalyst, maybe. But only in the same way that the shipwreck itself was a catalyst. We would have broken up sooner or later, and sooner looked better to me now than letting Anthony get carried away building a whole future that deep down I didn't want to live in anymore.
I turned to pace the other direction and kicked up yet another plume. My foot was still burning, still bleeding a little and more worryingly, a red rash from the deep cut was fanning up my leg towards my knee.
Maybe I'd end up losing more than a fiancé soon, who knew. He was the man who had wooed me harder than I thought was still in fashion. He had bought me countless gifts, picked out the names of our children and given me an engagement ring engraved with the coordinates of the exact spot we had met. But he was also the man who had given me countless bruises, and who had told me once in a drunken moment of honesty, that one of the reasons he was attracted to me was because he knew I wouldn't mind taking a back seat to his life.
"I've thought about it, Anthony, and I've made up my mind. The engagement's off," I said, a little louder. Yes, that sounded good. The words of a woman who knew herself. A confident, sure woman. 'No' was a complete sentence, right? He didn't need to know the details.
By the time I had reached my destination, I had whittled down my little speech to the bone: I wanted out, and no, I didn't want to discuss it. End of story. The only thing missing now was Anthony himself - he had gone off to find food hours ago, and that was the last we had heard from him.
It was getting late. Everyone had spread off to do their own little tasks and slowly we were gathering again at our shelter. But Anthony was still AWOL. The bottom half of the sky was already getting a hazy, pink and blue tinge to it and he still hadn't returned. I forbid myself from coming to any hasty conclusions.
I walked on and pushed through the leaves to find what I was looking for.
Ah, there it was.
Earlier, Carl and Livvy had shown me this small stream. I peeked over my shoulder to see if I'd been followed and then crept closer, quickly shrugged off my cocktail dress and dipped one tentative toe into the water. The cool water was a shock, but a welcome one. It felt scandalous, having the soft breeze stroking over my bare skin, and I lingered there for a moment, in my underwear, relishing how illicit it all felt. I reached back to unhook my bra and placed it carefully on a dry rock beside me, then took two careful steps out of my panties and lay them aside, too.
What I had done with Todd this morning was wrong, no doubt about it. But he wasn't to blame. I stared down at the clear, glassy water around my calves. But who was to blame? I didn't know where to draw the line on my mistakes. I shouldn't have kissed him. I shouldn't have been on that ship at all, knowing full well that our 'last chance' would never amount to anything. I should have never agreed to his proposal at all. Going further back, maybe the first mistake was getting involved with a man I knew deep down would kill me slowly.
The damn storm was to blame. And this water right here was also at fault. This was the reason why I had to end it with Anthony. This feeling of... I barely even understood it myself. But it was wild and raw and real and it felt so different from the way my life had played out so far that it scared me. I was hungry and wounded and about to end an engagement, and yet the truth was that the shipwreck was the single most exciting thing to ever happen to me. I felt alive. It was more than adrenaline, more than the novelty of the situation or even the fear of not knowing if any of us would live to see out the week.
It was ...this.
I crouched down and sucked in my breath as the warm skin of my thighs and then my abdomen sunk deeper into the cold water. Underneath it, my body looked blurred, its edges skipping and sketchy, like I wasn't quite so real underwater as I was up here. The air around me smelt of roots and the chemical tang of water. Why had I never skinny dipped in my life? Why had it taken me so long to realize how beautiful it felt to be naked in cool water in the forest?
I dunked down deeper still and submerged to the neck. Now, the silky ribbons of cool water threaded over me, past my arms, through my legs and all around as I moved slowly, creating only the quietest, tiniest of ripples. I lay my head back to dunk my hair and nearly gasped out loud at how good the water felt flooding over every last hair on my scalp. I shuddered hard as sharp goosebumps washed over me, tightening my nipples. I leant back and floated for some time, stuck in a daydream that involved the leafy rooftop of the forest above me, the bands of sun streaking through it and my vague new plan to be someone else, someone different and bursting with immense, grateful lust for life.
After a while I grabbed my dress, held it under the water and tried to wring and scrub the fabric, coaxing out a full day's worth of salt and sand and sweat. I did the same to my underwear and then stepped halfway out of the pool to hang everything up on some thorny branches. When I sunk back into the water again, there was nothing but the faint drip drip drip of my drying clothes and the distant call of birds.
I lay back again and floated on my back, idly paddling my arms.
I would tell Anthony, and he would understand. He'd be hurt, of course. But I knew that he must have been exhausted, too. Tired of pushing me. Tired of waiting for me to be the model wife I wasn't. He'd understand. He'd have to. It all seemed so simple now. Why did people have to hurt each other like this? I would miss Anthony with all my heart. But floating so still and peaceful here, that seemed only like the smallest of details. I needed to let him go, just as easily as I had taken off that dress that was once pretty, but was now torn and just didn't fit me at all.
My hands went to stroke over my belly. The water made my skin feel supernaturally silky, so that my hands slid frictionless over. After the day I had had, this alga colored water in this little rock pool was worth more than the fanciest spa in the world. I was empty inside - we had eaten, but only barely, and if we stayed here much longer, we'd all start wasting away in no time. Like they had a life of their own, my hands slipped lower onto the curve of my upper thighs. I stroked up to my hips, then all the way down again. How perfect it was to be alive!
I moved watery fingers over my breasts, circling hardened nipples that poked through the film of water if I curved my back upwards. I arched and looked down to admire myself. Out here, my body seemed completely at home. My two hipbones pierced the water and brought with them the smooth, white mound between them, a dune in a mysterious white desert made of water. I watched the water pool in my navel, lap over the rounded swell of my breasts and glide over me I had been born in this forest pool.
What would my life be like, if I started fresh, right now? Who would I be if I wasn't someone's fiancé, wasn't the boring old Ellie I had been trapped in for all these years, but somebody different, somebody as exciting and strange as the dark forest closing in all around me?
My hands then slipped between my legs and stroked delicately over the insistent ache that had developed there. My whole body felt like it was prickling awake, every inch of my skin almost as sensitive as that sweet little spot my fingers were now circling.
I stroked slowly, delivering the smallest, most delicious electric thrills all through me, so that I could see the water ripple out around me as my breath quickened and deepened. I shut my eyes and sunk into the dark wateriness behind my eyelids as well. I teased and rolled my fingertips faster, till I could feel my own slickness in the water, my body hot and swollen. I brought that aching, glowing spot to as much torment as I could stand, then froze and hovered, suspending myself above an orgasm that promised to be deep and intense. I forced myself to breathe one long, shuddering breath in and then out. Nearly weightless, there was nothing but perfect, frictionless pleasure threatening to submerge me completely.
I eased a single finger inside and paused there, enjoying the secret, slow play of cool and warm water that had me quivering for release. I told myself: this is it Ellie. When this orgasm hit me, I would surrender completely and let it kill me. On the other side of that juicy death would be something new. Life would be the same, but I would something else. Reborn out of this dark puddle in the forest, resurrected and anointed with nothing but the silky thick wetness streaming onto my fingers.
I came silently. The orgasm was like a deep kick inside, pounding through me so hard I gasped and staggered back to my feet, my knees trembling unseen in the dark water beneath me. I stood there silently letting it rip through me; the easy, smooth waves of pleasure felt so right. In time, the wavelets in the pool calmed down too.
By the time I finally slunk out of the water and wrung out my hair, the sky visible through the trees was getting darker. My dress was still wet, but it was a welcome sensation to have the damp fabric against my skin as I wriggled it back on. I was probably not much cleaner, but I felt amazing all the same. Fresh in spirit if not entirely in body.
I slipped my sandals back on, took a deep breath and headed back to our base camp. When I finally found my way back, I was pleased to see a great, roaring fire on the beach sand next to our little house. It almost looked like a party. Carl saw my smile as I came through the clearing of trees and waltzed up to me.
"Impressive, huh? The wood finally dried up so now things are looking a little homier around here," he said and extended his hand to me.
Though I could walk much better now by myself, I still welcomed his help. Why not? I was the new Ellie now. Who knows what my new personality would end up becoming. We hobbled towards the fire, and I noticed how the pink and blue of the sunset had deepened now. The sun would set any minute now.
"Is Anthony back yet?" I asked, fully expecting him to tell me that it was Anthony who built the fire, and that he was just around the corner as we spoke.
"Uh..."
I looked at him and the little frown on his forehead.
"He'll come back soon, I'm sure," he said, in that way people say things when they're not sure at all. I nodded and walked with him over to some logs that had been placed in a ring around the fire.
I could see Livvy a little way off, sitting cross-legged close to the water's edge, doing what looked like meditation. Fine. I chose a log and threw myself down onto it, relishing how good it felt to have the fire's warmth on the front of me while the cool memory of my little moment in the forest pool was still at my back.
"We have plenty of dry wood, which is great, and there's not a cloud in the sky tonight so nothing to put it out. We're all gonna sleep like the dead," he said with a smile.
I hadn't spoken much to Carl at all, but he seemed sweet enough. He wasn't the best looking man you've ever seen but his face was open and thoughtful and he seemed friendly enough. Maybe, new Ellie could be super compassionate and kindhearted. Maybe I'd become a grizzled hippie and meditate on the beach as well. Why not?
"Hopefully not too much like the dead," I said.
He laughed.
"Yeah, you're right, that was a poor choice of words. But we're OK. We're going to be OK."
I flopped my mangled foot out in front of me and stared down at it, unable to summon much affection for the bacon-colored rash threatening to take over my whole leg.
"Will we though?" I asked. "It's just like ...what happens now? It's as though everything's just ...stopped. Like we've already died but we're still hanging around somehow, with nothing to do."
Maybe new Ellie would be super emotionally mature, and expressive. Maybe I'd be a poet.
He was chuckling.
"We have as much to do as we've always had, there are just fewer distractions now," he said with a mischievous smile. It was my turn to chuckle.
"Well, that's very sagely of you, Carl, but a few of those distractions right now would have been nice, don't you think?"
He stretched out long on his own log, his heels digging a dark, damp stripe beneath him, as he stared unfocused eyes into the fire.
"Nah, not really. I have the most important person in the world to me by my side, and I'm alive and breathing ...what more is there?"
"Wow ...so you're quite the romantic." The image of him in the forest the day before sprung to my mind.
"Not at all. I'm a practical man. There's so much noise in life, don't you think? A lot of time-wasting, a lot of commotion. But at some point, you have to ask what's really important. All the other stuff? It all sinks sooner or later, right?" he said with the same irreverent smile.
Maybe having a randy wife who was good for a romp anytime, anywhere was the secret to his supernaturally positive outlook.
I scoffed.
If I wasn't feeling so tired and weak, I could be Zen about everything, too. I bet I could look at this whole mess like a cute sitcom: there was the hot SEAL trainee, the ball-busting tough girl, whatever Anthony was and this guy, some fool with the patience of a monk.
"So, what's really important to you, then, Carl?"
He looked out over to the shoreline and answered immediately.
"Her."
I wanted to laugh again and tell him what a ridiculous sap he was. It was ludicrous, waxing lyrical about his wife at a time like this, when we were isolated who knows where and on the brink of almost-certain death. But I couldn't. A lump grew in my throat as I realized: maybe new Ellie wanted that for herself.
"Anthony and I ...I think I'm going to call off our engagement."
He looked surprised. But he didn't say anything. He just kept staring into the fire with a serene look on his face. He felt safe to talk to. The others were well out of earshot, and, what the hell, we were beyond small talk by now.
"What you said about Livvy? About her being the most important thing in the world to you? Well... Anthony and I aren't like that. Not even close. I love him. I actually do love him. But not in the way I need to, you know? I want the best for him, if that's what love means. But I also know I can never be the one to give him that."
It felt strange to just open up to him like this. But the moment I did, and the words were out there in the real world and not just my frazzled head, it felt good.
I stared into the fire with him.
"So, that's why I'm going to tell him it's over. I've been stewing over it all day. Something about this place, huh?"
"Yup. Like I said, it's amazing what you notice when all the distractions are gone," he said with a sad smile.
"I feel awful about it though. Like it'll eat at me until I just get it over with, just tell him. But he's not a bad man. I don't want to hurt him... I don't even know if..."
I couldn't finish my thought.
"If he'll even come back tonight?" he said.
We both fell back into silent staring again, our eyes glued to the yellow and orange swirls in the fire. The sun on the horizon was the same color, and if you watched carefully, you could almost see it moving before your eyes to lower down and dip into the water, like it was extinguishing itself. We watched in silence until it started to darken more seriously. Right now, the prospect of another night in the sand pit was almost appealing. I felt cleaner, lighter, and less panicked somehow.
"Thanks for talking with me."
"Thanks for talking with me," he replied and smiled.
Anthony didn't come. Charlie appeared an hour or two later and said she'd had no luck finding him, and her news put a dark mood over an otherwise peaceful evening. Todd kept his distance from the fire, avoiding me by busying himself endlessly with this and that. I didn't mind. I was grateful, even. Anthony being missing felt like just another hopeless mystery thrown onto an already impossible situation. I didn't know when to start officially worrying. With a sickening feeling in my stomach, I realized that even when he did return, it would only be to take him off somewhere into the forest and quietly hand him back his ring.
New Ellie didn't feel guilty about these things, though, I had decided. We were all weary enough that Carl, Livvy, Todd and I went to bed not long after sundown, with the agreement that we'd have to search for Anthony in the morning, when there was light to do so. A little way off from our pit, the fire died down somewhat but its embers still glowed as darkness fell. Charlie sat outside alone, watching the coals pulse a little as they faded.
Inside the pit, I had a strange thought that I had conjured Anthony clean out of existence somehow, by thinking so hard about breaking things off with him. Todd clung to the far side of the pit and ignored me. It hurt, but I reminded myself that it wasn't fair to ask him to get involved in my mess. I could only imagine what he must be feeling, but running around and kissing in secret was just not a smart strategy. We pulled the roof over us and secured it, then settled down for the night. Without the threat of another storm on the horizon, the world felt mercifully still for a moment.
I had already fallen fast asleep when I felt Charlie's breath in my ear. At first I thought it must have been Anthony, creeping out from the darkness, or maybe even my nightmares themselves, and coming to admonish me for my crimes. But it was her.
"Don't you dare make a sound," she hissed.
Before I could respond, I felt something sharp dig into my lower back.
"Charl--"
"I said shut up."
My body tensed up as I tried to understand what was happening.
"You need to stay away from him," she said, her voice thin and sounding dangerous in the night air.
"From who?" I whispered. The sharpness jabbed again into my lower back and I winced and tried to wriggle away.
"Try to stand up and I'll sink this into your kidneys, I swear. You think that little scratch on your foot is a big deal? Don't try me."
My head raced. I was now wide awake. Why was she doing this? It was obvious she was jealous about Todd, but a knife? I didn't even know we had a knife on the island. Her voice sounded deranged.
"Charlie, please, can we talk? This is crazy..."
The knife point didn't budge. I wanted to cry.
"You know, I was thinking about it. I hate women like you. And I could have easily killed you for trying to get in the way. But you know what? I'll be gone tomorrow morning, before you've finished doing your hair and make-up, so you can thank your lucky stars."
Gone? Where the hell did she think she was going? I thought of reaching out and shaking Carl awake, but the knife point was already just a hair's breadth from puncturing my skin, and the venom in her voice told me that any sudden movements would likely be rewarded with a stab. I could scarcely believe what was happening.
"I don't know what you're talking about, Charlie. I'm not standing in your way. Put that thing away and let's talk..."
She poked me with it. I bit my tongue. She was pinned so close to me I could feel the rise of her chest and she inhaled.
"I don't understand, what do you want?" I said, my voice laced with panic.
She laughed quietly in the darkness.
"Just to let you know that I've won," she whispered.
There was no question about it. She was crazy. She sounded like an insane villain from a movie.
"Oh my god, what the hell is actually wrong with you?"
I could tell she was a little startled at my outburst. The others stirred but nobody woke up. The knife was pulled away from my skin and I heard her breathe again behind me, still far too close for comfort. I briefly considered turning around and grabbing her, fighting back, something. But she was much stronger than I was. And clearly insane. Instead I took a deep breath and did what I could: played it cool.
"Just go to sleep, Charlie" I said and settled back down on the grass mat.
Whatever her point was, she had made it. If she was literally insane, the last thing I needed was to provoke her further. She was delusional. Maybe she was having a breakdown. But if she wanted to really stab me she would have done it already.
I waited for her to say something more but she didn't. Exhausted, I soon fell back to sleep, too tired to figure out if I was more insulted or more afraid at her ridiculous threat. She wasn't going anywhere. None of us were.
And she had won? Well, congratulations, I guess. I had lost. I had lost everything. And if she wanted to stab me in the night like the crazy person she was, she was welcome to damn well try.
Chapter 17 - Anthony
A harsh blade of morning sunshine forced my tender eyes open. I groaned. It felt as though every day passed on this island added a whole year of misery to my life. I felt fucking old. And tired.
With numb hands, I rubbed the sleep out of my eyes and tried to stand up. I looked down at my mosquito bitten, burnt legs. I looked up at the trees overhead, their dark leaves completely disinterested in my misery down below. I looked down again at my worn-out body. My clothes were dirty. My fingernails were black. I don't remember choosing this particular spot to collapse on, but fuck it.
With incredible effort, I hauled myself up to standing and tried to draw a fresh breath. The oxygen stung my lungs. It had been a long, long time since I felt this way. But why bother with moderation and restraint when nobody else in this worthless world did? I wobbled on sore knees and realized that I was not hungover, but still drunk. Very drunk. I knew this feeling well - the dull, low-grade sense of panic that comes with the body realizing it's been moderately poisoned.
Just the thought of the word 'poison' sent a deep rolling lurch through my stomach, and I involuntarily staggered forward, folded over and vomited long and hard. A thin, burning torrent of clear liquid shot out of me like a demon. Before last night, I hadn't had a drink in at least a year. And now, within a short time frame, I had guzzled down almost two bottles of the stuff. I stared at the puddle of puke between my feet. Well, at least some of it was gone, now.
As though a vice grip had been tightened around my skull, my head thumped violently, and I could feel it all down through my face and into my jaw. I had the horrifying sense that all my organs had somehow come loose and were now rattling inside me; that each step had to be taken very carefully or I'd tear something internally and land up with as much integrity as that puddle of vomit. But it was nothing compared to the pain I felt as my new reality dawned on me. Before last night, I could have believed that things were going to be OK. That Ellie and I would be OK, and that this was all just an unfortunate glitch on the bigger picture of our lives together.
But now?
Fuck her.
And fuck him.
Why should I hide in the bushes? I was the wronged party here, and yet I was lurking away from the main camp? No way. In a few short days, everything that I thought of as real and good had been smashed into tiny pieces. I had nothing left. Well, except for that thing.
I turned to look at the thing in question, my latest discovery, lying inanimate off to the side. From here, to get back to the others was probably only a ten-minute walk for a healthy, normal person. But I was no longer healthy and certainly no longer normal, and lugging that thing behind me would slow me down even more. But I thought I smelt smoke on the wind and knew that they had likely started a fire. It gave me an idea.
I looked down at it, the last thing on this earth I owned, my only remaining possession. And now it had to go. If I was to be ruined and humiliated, then fuck it, why not go all the way? Why not throw it all in the fire and be done with it already? If I couldn't have it, then nobody could. I was done with her. Done with giving her a free ride, trying to 'save' her when what she really wanted was to wallow in her stupid decisions.
I bent down, tried to swallow the evil waves of nausea washing through me and grabbed hold of its rough edge. It must have weighed almost as much as I did. I dragged, paused, took a breath, then dragged again, pitching through the foliage one weak step at a time.
When I finally saw the camp, I was pleased to see that I was right - the embers in the fire were still glowing an exciting orange, and everyone was still fast asleep. The sun would likely rise in an hour or so.
I shoved the heavy thing off to the side. Then, smiling, I set to work finding more fuel to stoke the flames for my own purpose. Being out in the fresh, open beach again was clearing my head somewhat, but I couldn't shake the feeling that last night's binge had seriously damaged something inside me. I set one remaining bottle off to the side - having drunk two and jettisoned the others - and busied myself adding twigs and branches to the dying fire, blowing until it caught and a small flame started licking at the new fuel.
Within twenty minutes my work paid off: the fire was big and roaring, the branches inside crackling and collapsing under a heat so strong I could feel it on my face from several feet away. I grabbed the end of the moss-covered canoe and dragged it over, then with one final lug I hauled it straight into the center of the fire. With a thud it crushed the twigs underneath, briefly extinguishing the flames which then shot out the sides again, flickering viciously along the flanks of the boat and sending out yellow sparks and smoke. Within a minute the fire had a hold of that ancient wood and was quickly turning it black.
I slumped down onto the white sand and watched it.
Good.
A few hours ago, it was a ticket out of here for Ellie and I, a boat to float us away from this mess. Now it was sailing its last journey on a river of hot fire, and would soon be nothing more than ashes. The thought made me laugh out loud. Some images you never forget. Seeing my parents' smiling faces as I stepped onto the stage at my prize-giving ceremony. Seeing Ellie's face for the first time. And now, another image was burnt in there: seeing Ellie locked in a passionate kiss with some young jock, pressed up against him like the whole future I had planned for her had counted for nothing.
This was the way life worked now, apparently. No justice, no sanity, just everyone's lives balancing on one sudden and senseless accident after another. The storm had wrecked everything, and then, when I came walking back to our camp from the other side of the island, a second shock hit me harder than any storm could: I stood in disbelief and watched her as she kissed him, far out on a scratchy black patch of rock.
And now everything was different. If she wanted to destroy the life I had painstakingly created for her, well, let me help her! I'd gladly throw it all away. The flames were digging deeper into the dry wood now, growing higher and more violent. And to think she had the nerve to ask me to stop drinking.
"Fuck you! Burn, you piece of shit!" I yelled and threw a clumsy handful of sand into the flames.
The palm frond roof of the dwelling shook and soon I saw a concerned head poking out to see what all the noise was. Carl's face froze as he looked at me, then at the flames. He looked just like a frightened little gopher with a human face, and somehow this made me laugh even harder, so hard the tears were streaming down my face. Livvy's face soon popped out too, and the roof was hastily lifted and set aside as they both stepped out, confused and horror-struck.
"That's right, you dumb fuckers, I'm burning it!" I shouted, and came staggering to my feet. When Ellie climbed out of the pit, rubbing sleep from her eyes, I stopped laughing instantly and remembered how fucking angry I was. She shared the same dumbstruck expression as the other two, and they all three just stood and beheld the mighty flames, burning our last escape from the island to sweet, sweet smithereens. It wasn't exactly justice, but fuck it, options were few out here.
When Charlie sprung out of the pit, she didn't dawdle though. I had brought myself wobbling to my feet and was standing proudly in front of the blaze, but she instantly threw all her weight at me, banging my shoulders hard and sending me falling straight back.
"What the fuck are you doing?" she screeched. "How did you find it?"
For a split second I was genuinely afraid of how wide her eyes grew as she bent over me and glared at my face, fuming. I was about to prepare myself for a beating when she spun around and grabbed hold of the end of the canoe, then tried desperately to yank it out of the flames. It budged  little - but it brought the fire with it. She grimaced and jumped away from the heat, her hands blackened.
"That boat is mine! How dare you! Are you insane? That was my ticket out of here, you stupid idiot!" she yelled, hopping from foot to foot like she was about to explode with rage.
"Your ticket?" I slurred. "Bitch, I found it, it's mine. And now I'm burning it," I laughed.
The face she gave me was so dripping with rage it was almost as hot as the fire between us both.
"I'll fucking kill you," she hissed, and lowered her weight like she was going to pounce on me. But she thought better of attacking me and instead tried again anxiously to pull the boat from the flames.
The others had snapped out of their stupor and were now yelling at me, yelling at Charlie, yelling at each other.
"Is that a boat?"
"Where on earth did that come from?"
"Everyone just calm down!"
"Anthony what happened to you?"
"Tell me that's not vodka."
"Oh my god, there are other people here?
Ellie and I stood on opposite sides of the blaze, time slowing down for a moment, just enough for us to lock eyes. She was still just as beautiful as always, but this time she was tainted.
Dirty.
I had forgiven everything in her past before because she needed me, because I was the one who was going to save her from it all. The fact is that Ellie was never the perfect woman, and I couldn't pretend she was anymore.
She was broken.
In the past her brokenness had made her interesting. Had made her vulnerable. Had made her mine. But not anymore. Now the potential for purity I had seen in her was all gone. She was just a worthless, typical woman, and I had been a fool trying to help her in the first place.
She looked at me sadly but I felt nothing. I tore my gaze from hers and saw that Charlie was now trying to roll the boat in the sand to quench the flames. Nope. I couldn't have her do that. I leaped at her and clutched her around her waist, tackling her to the ground. She cried out and fought back immediately, bringing down a rain of pummeling fists onto my neck and head. The pain was so intense I was sure she had split my skull open like a watermelon, but she didn't stop there.
Though I held her fiercely she started to kick and buck, twisting under me till she could knee at my guts and pry me off her. But even drunk I was stronger than her. Though the others were now yelling at us both to stop, the fight was well underway, and I certainly wasn't going to hold back just because she was a woman. Just when she thought she had me, I spun around hard and managed to bring the back of my hand across her face, slapping her brutally so she reeled back away from me, stunned.
"Anthony, stop!" Ellie cried.
But I wasn't going to stop. In a flurry of hands trying to pull us off one another, I saw blurred out the edge of one eye another hand that went for my remaining vodka bottle. I got to my feet, Charlie still clinging to my legs and wrestling me down, but wasn't quick enough to stop her from grabbing the bottle. I heard a smash as the bottle broke and smelt the sudden scent of alcohol in the air.
My eyes closed as I dug deep to find the last reserves of energy I had to push her off me completely. I lifted my hand to strike her again but this time, a blinding sharp pain exploded under my ribs. I looked down to see the jagged edge of the broken bottle piercing right into the flesh of my side. The pain reached its peak and then turned into nothing. A sheet of white sparkled behind my eyes as I felt myself slump and heard the others screaming hysterically.
I took a few zigzagging steps as my broken body crumpled to the sand. My midsection felt wet to my fingertips. Kneeling, my bright red fingers told me she had stabbed me. My head whirled violently but I could no longer feel the pain. I could no longer feel anything. I relaxed my neck muscles and let my head fall heavy into the powdered sand.
This is what Ellie wanted, wasn't it? A big, brutish alpha male asshole who would get into vicious fights?
Laughing to myself, I slowly managed to lift myself up again. The alcohol had anesthetized me. My body was nothing but a numb, dead slab of meat. I stood and flung myself at Charlie's now turned back, clinching both arms tightly around her neck and pulling back hard.
"Anthony, let go of her!" came the cries again.
"I don't even hear your voice anymore, Ellie! You are dead to me! You hear that? You no longer even exist for me!" I screamed, and the air in my lungs seemed to give me an extra boost of energy to pull Charlie back down to the ground again. I yanked hard on her messy pigtails, trying to top her.
"Anthony ...please..."
Charlie's fist came ringing through the air and laded brutally onto my left cheek. I felt the vibration but not the pain. I laughed in her face.
"You're all fucking dead to me" I spat and continued wrestling her for all I was worth.
"Anthony, it's over!"
The fighting stopped for a brief second. I followed the gaze of the others to a spot on the ground. I couldn't make out anything at first, but then I saw it: her engagement ring. She had ripped it off and flung it to the ground, and now she was standing with both fists balled at her sides, tears streaking her face, glaring at us both.
"We're through, Anthony. It's all over. It ends here," she yelled.
I had never seen her so emotional. But again, I felt nothing. Nothing but sweet, empty numbness blanketing over me. For a moment, I stood and just stared at the ring, at her, at the group of people looking on in horror, waiting for my reaction. It was enough to give Charlie a window to stumble to her feet and knee me hard in the ribs again. I howled in pain as we tumbled back into one another again, fighting as viciously as only two people with nothing left to lose can fight.
"Enough!"
I tried to lift my head. It was Todd, and he had both his arms linked through Charlie's elbows. He was pulling her roughly off me, as both Livvy and Carl descended and tried to help me stand. Charlie went off kicking and screaming as Todd pulled her away, sand flying as she thrashed in his arms. Eventually he pushed her aside and she staggered to her feet, nose red. Wiping the blood on the back of her arm, she gave me a sour look but stood down. Her face was covered in scratches and her hair stuck out in all directions from her ruffled braids. I didn't even want to know what I looked like.
"That's enough. No more. You two should be ashamed of yourselves," Todd said.
Livvy was now at Ellie's side, stroking her hair as she looked on in tearful shock. I only had enough strength to lay in the same heap I was left in, breathing with difficulty, the rip at my side hanging bright red and open like something from a horror movie. The fire roared on, but the boat had been dragged far enough from it that the flames had been smothered by sand and now it lay steaming and smoking, tipped on its side. By some miracle, it was still more or less intact, although seriously charred.
The hungry flames flicked madly as we all stood and waited for something to happen. Todd stood, arms hanging at his side like the jutting ape he was, and Livvy and Ellie were both sobbing into one another's arms. Carl merely stood and watched with empty eyes, and Charlie was sliding her jaw from side to side, running tender fingers through her mouth to fish out any loose teeth. I was bleeding onto the sand, feeling how my hold on life was getting more tenuous by the second.
Todd cleared his voice and spoke up.
"He's drunk. Even here..." Ellie muttered. "Even here." Her voice was nothing but a stunned whisper.
I gave them all a sarcastic, bloody grin. Todd sprang to action and signaled to the others.
"Carl and Livvy, you need to help him, please. Try to keep the sand out of the wound and try use the vodka that's left over to sterilize everything you touch. Charlie, you and I are going to fix this boat up and prepare some food. Ellie..." here he looked at her with a sad knot in his eyebrows. "Ellie you lay low for now, you don't look so good."
Asshole.
The white haze behind my eyelids was descending again. It was like a literal curtain falling down over my life, and I was now seeing the end of this strange, final act that I never guessed I'd have a starring role in.
I passed out to the sound of anxious voices talking quietly around me.
Chapter 18 - Todd
I didn't like the guy. Not one bit. I thought he was an uptight piece of shit with a chip on his shoulder, and I didn't trust him one bit. But he was important to Ellie. I couldn't just stand by and watch Charlie lay into him like that. And as for swallowing as much alcohol as he did? I wouldn't say I had respect for the fact that he was somehow still alive. But the poor guy at least deserved the chance to sleep it off.
I tried speaking to Charlie but she wouldn't listen. She dragged a log off close to the water's edge and sat it on it for the longest time, sulking. I shook my head at the blackened boat that had caused all the trouble. It was amazing, how close I had come to doing something so stupid because of what... a bashed up old wooden canoe? That canoe? I guess everyone was losing their minds out here, me included.
I thanked my lucky stars I hadn't given in to Charlie's harebrained scheme and in a strange way, glad that Anthony had finally bought this whole mess to a head. Him and Ellie were finished, that much was clear. But that didn't really change the challenges we all faced now.
Nobody had the guts to say it, but Ellie's foot was looking worse and worse every hour. We were one man down and Charlie was utterly despondent. That left me and the couple, and they were already completely distracted trying to tend to Anthony's gash while he was still knocked out cold. So, I was left to fix the boat on my own.
I grasped the ends of the hull and with one strong movement I flipped it over, sending a hollow thwock sound echoing over the beach. It was quite remarkable; unlike anything I'd seen before. It wasn't a commercially made vessel. In fact, as I looked closely, the bands that seemed at first to be strips of wood were only carvings into one single, solid chunk of wood. It was a dugout tree trunk.
I gazed around the horizon to the edge of the forest. There weren't trees big enough there to make something like this, and there probably had never been. Whoever made this boat was long gone, that was for sure.
I examined the surface carefully. The fire had scorched the outer surface quite badly, but to my relief, the inside was still solid and untouched. I knocked my knuckles all up and down its gently curved hull, sending charred flakes flying off the surface.
No termite damage. No cracks. Damn it, it just might work.
I squatted down low and dragged it over to the water's edge, and Carl soon noticed and came trotting along after me, running inside the wet line the dragging hull left on the shore behind me. Charlie paid us no mind. She just sat crouched in her spot, hugging her knees and head hidden.
"You think it'll go?" Carl said, eyeing the dugout.
"We'll soon find out."
I splashed into the surf and the second the wood cut into water's surface it felt lighter and more buoyant under my grasp. I dug my feet into the sand beneath and leant back to pull the canoe further out, and it slipped happily onto the water. Carl stood on the other side and looked down into the hull with interest - no leaks. The inside was rough and covered with soft moss, but at least it was dry. We shared a smile. Maybe I had been too hard on Carl. After all, him and his hippy wife were so far the only ones who had avoided nearly killing themselves in under a week out here ...maybe they had had the right attitude all along.
"It won't hold up in any storm," he said, "but if the weather stays just like this, it could carry two people a ways."
I noticed how he avoided saying which two people it might carry. I squinted and looked out to the horizon. At this point, the existence of anything other than this hellish island was beginning to feel like a matter of personal belief. But he was right. This may the last and only solution we would get.
"I'll hold it steady, and you hop in," he said, and anchored his hands wide on the worn brim. I nodded, jumped up and lifted myself inside, the edges wobbling and listing for a moment before I lowered my weight again and steadied myself. We exchanged more grins. The wood beneath me felt heavy and safe and solid.
For a moment, I pictured that it had escaped its life somewhere long ago and floated out here just like we had. Maybe it used to belong to ancient American Indians centuries ago or maybe it was even older, and the last people to inhabit this place were from a time far back in prehistory. A primitive, savage race with no language, and no civilization. I ran my hands over the fluffy, splintered fibers inside. A bit like the six of us, I thought darkly.
"Well?"
"It'll hold," I said, then hopped out. His face was filled with questions.
"How is Anthony?" I asked, trying to segue gently to the real issue before us.
"Not good. I'm no doctor, but I'd say he has alcohol poisoning. I don't know what happens if you drink a half gallon of vodka instead of water, and then sleep outside for a night, but I'm amazed he's still with us at all. And that cut? That's not good."
I nodded. I was embarrassed on Charlie's behalf. My fears that she was only a few steps away from homicide were looking more and more founded.
"You and Livvy weren't able to do anything with it?"
His face went serious.
"Livvy unwound the cotton from a button on her sundress. She pierced him a couple times with her earring and tried to stich him closed, but it's a big wound, Todd."
I was touched with how much responsibility he was taking for a man who had done nothing but make a nuisance of himself since we landed here. I tried to shake the image of Anthony's grisly injury from my mind. Though I felt for the guy, going on a massive bender at a time like this showed some serious lack of foresight.
"The boat holds two. We should make a decision who goes," I finally said. Carl nodded as though he'd been expecting the question.
"Well, you should go," he said, and we both started to push the floating canoe back to land. The water lapped curiously around the hem of my trousers, cool and fresh. We reached the beach and pushed hard to wedge the boat into the sand and lock it there. I gave it a few firm kicks to loosen some of the ash still clinging to the outside.
"Who else?" I asked.
He wrung the water from his own trousers.
"Take the girl. Take Ellie."
I was surprised. I had expected him to motivate why he should go, at the very least, or maybe his wife. We walked leisurely back to the pit together.
"Ellie needs medical attention. She's in bad shape but if she gets help in the next couple of days, she'll be OK. Charlie can bite my ass, that girl is crazy. Anthony isn't well enough to travel. And to be honest I'm not sure anybody here would care to go with him."
"But what about you and Livvy?"
He made a simple, straightforward smile at nothing in particular.
"Well, we're strong. We'll be all right. And you'll come back for us, won't you, Todd?"
I had a lump in my throat. I extended my hand to his and we shook.
"Carl, so help me, the very second we make it to safety I'm sending someone back to get you and Livvy."
He nodded and we walked a little further up. This time Charlie raised her head and watched us approach. I didn't feel like talking to her. Didn't feel like hearing the next installment of her arch evil plan. But things were moving now and whatever happened, we still were all in this mess together.
"Charlie, we've come to a decision. Ellie and I are going to head off in the boat and bring back help for us all."
Better to just rip the Band-Aid off. If her performance over the last hour was anything to go by, it was possible that she'd jump up right now and try to tear my head clean off my shoulders. But she didn't. She kept sitting, staring off, looking sullen.
"You should go," she said quietly, her voice croaking. Carl and I exchanged surprised glances. She shrugged and put her forehead back on her knees.
In all the time I had known Charlie, I had never seen her give up before. Never seen her admit defeat, not even when she was face down in a foot of mud, sleep deprived and leopard crawling through barbed wire with an eighty-pound backpack strapped to her. Not on any drills, not when we were all exhausted and many other good men had given up and quit. But Charlie looked like she had finally quit. I considered walking over to her and saying a kind word, but then I thought better of it. We all had our own burdens out here, and I couldn't make her mine. Besides, we would come back. This nightmare now had a timeline. It would have an endpoint, too, and Ellie and I would be the ones to go and bring it closer to us all.
"Let's go and find something to make some oars out of," Carl said. I admired his calm demeanor, and quietly promised myself I'd emulate it.
"Just a second," I said as we walked past our pit.
Ellie was sitting silently with Livvy, and they watched me approach without a word. By now it was hard to ignore the painful looking redness creeping all the way up her white thigh. She was starting to look thin and gaunt, too, and the sun was starting to bleach out the silk of her dress. It broke my heart.
"How's he doing?" I said and gestured towards Anthony. They had placed him down on his side under a tree with his shoes under his head, and his knees pulled up high. I felt for the guy. Neither of them said anything, though, which I took to mean the worst.
"The plan is settled," I said. "Ellie and I will go off to find help, we can leave first thing tomorrow morning."
Carl joined me to walk off.
"Me?" Ellie said. "But I'm completely useless, why should I go? Take Livvy or Carl."
"The sooner we can get you out of here the better. Your foot, Ellie," I said, unable to tear my eyes away from it. I could visibly see her swallow. Maybe pride made her want to argue, to be selfish and suggest someone else go instead. But I could tell the pain and discomfort of limping around this island was wearing her down, and won out over any misgivings she had about coming onto the boat alone with me.
"You go, sweetie. We'll be fine here. I'll watch Anthony, and we have enough food for a while. It'll be OK," Livvy said, and locked soothing eyes with Ellie. Ellie nodded.
"Carl and I are going to find something to use as an oar for the boat. In the meantime, do you think you could make another one of those?" I said, and pointed to the frond roof covering our sleeping pit. She seemed to pep up.
"Yes, yes of course. I think I can make a better one, as a matter of fact."
"Good. We're going to need shelter from the sun out there, so try to think of a way to make a sunshade, some sort of protection, OK?"
"OK" she said quickly. She was still finding it difficult to let my eyes meet hers.
I smiled at Livvy and went over to join Carl.
"We'll leave in the morning, before sunrise," I yelled out behind me.
As Carl and I walked into the forest in silence, my mind raced. How much of an asshole was I being here? I had never wanted to step between a woman and her fiancé. Not in a million years. But that was before I met Ellie. I won't lie, it seemed like they were well on their way to problems long before I entered the picture anyway ...but isn't that the kind of thing a real asshole would say, just to justify being a real asshole?
There was no question. My role now was to keep her safe, to make sure she got off this island and got the treatment she deserved. The rest of it ...I didn't know yet. I could get angry that Anthony had tried to sabotage us all, but the truth was I was just as guilty as anyone. I kissed her when I knew I shouldn't have. I took advantage of her when she was scared and simply needed someone to step up and take charge.
As we walked deeper into the forest, my mind settled: we were close to getting out of this mess. The only thing for me to do now was focus on the task at hand and forget about her.
"You thinking what I'm thinking?" Carl said and held up a promising slab of tree trunk.
"Actually, no I wasn't, but that's a good piece. Let's save it," I said, and took it from him, putting it over my shoulder and gesturing for us to keep walking.
Chapter 19 - Charlie
It was the end of our third night. Had so much really happened in such a short time? Being on this island had simultaneously been the most boring and the most wildly eventful time of my life.
I was the first to wake, and lay still for a long time in our little pit, bundled with the others in our usual order: Livvy, Carl, Anthony, Ellie, Me and Todd ...on the end. He had insisted.
My plan had failed spectacularly. Really, it had failed long ago; the first moment Todd had informed me that he wasn't interested in anything more with me.
I don't know when I became so obsessed. I don't know why. When you see those crazy people in those serial killer documentaries, or you hear about creepy stalkers shaping their whole lives around someone else, it all seems so bizarre. How could they do such a thing? What unhooked in their mind and came loose to make them pursue such a life path, and how did they get so far down that path without stopping to think about what they were doing?
Well, now I knew. They did it slowly.
Todd had been my secret, shameful obsession for almost as long as I could remember. I could trace my preoccupation with him back into the past like an archaeologist looks at the stripes in rocks. It all rested on that original hook that grabbed me: those words he spoke to me that night. He had said he loved me. He had said it. It was like having a spell cast over me. Had anybody in my entire life ever said those sweet words to me? He claimed they were a mistake, but I swiftly discounted that. He was mistaken. That brief moment of surrender I saw in him all those years ago was the real thing, the real truth I had been trying to get him to admit to ever since. All his protests otherwise had fallen on deaf ears, I guess.
But something about this place ...something about having everything of your life stripped away from you makes it so much harder to cling to flimsy illusions. When I saw it, it felt like someone had ripped away a blanket I had been holding onto forever. But once I saw it I couldn't not see it. Ellie was a sweet woman. And Todd cared for her. And, as much as it pained me, he didn't care for me. At all. I saw the way they looked at each other, and it was something I didn't have the strength to ignore anymore.
Everyone woke up soon after me and we all stirred, getting up early to see Todd and Ellie off. Anthony remained in the pit. It was creepy how little he moved. But he was coming back into consciousness here and there, and at least seemed calm. I knew that a single bottle of vodka could easily kill a person, so I had to admit, for a guy as intoxicated as he was, he still put up a pretty good fight. I wanted to think of him as a crazy idiot, but I soon realized I was nobody to talk.
I straightened my clothes, re-braided my hair and quietly rekindled the fire. The night before, we had tried with some success to smoke some mussels for Todd and Ellie to take on board. After we discovered a few bags of mysterious peanuts in Anthony's trouser pockets, we packed that in the boat as well. Ellie put the finishing touches on her makeshift parasol, and the second she woke up she started looking for a way to attach it to the canoe so it hung over to form an enclosure.
For the next hour, we all worked on our own little projects in silence. The mood was heavy but hopeful. We were all exhausted, hungry and sick of one another, but it felt like the only option we hadn't tried yet was working together. They were our last chance at rescue. I didn't even want to think about what life would be like here once they were gone. So instead I put my mind to sorting out the fire and tried to forget about everything else.
The sky went faintly yellow at the horizon. It would be sunrise soon. I didn't know where we were, but they'd have to give their all with a full day on that canoe if they didn't want to be floating in the middle of nowhere when night fell.
There was a strange tension in the air as the boat was pulled out into the water and everyone started to load it up with what little we had: peanuts, a vodka bottle filled with stream water and some leftovers from last night's dinner. Livvy had wrapped the tough little mussels and some crab meat in a broad leaf and folded it up, tucking it into the foot of the boat. All that remained was to attach the canopy.
But Ellie was having trouble. She tried at first to just prop each leg against the inside edge of the boat to create an arc overhead, but it wasn't stable, and kept sliding out. Carl stepped in to help, and we all battled with it for a while, trying to figure out a way to keep the surface both anchored but high enough that they could sit inside and be shaded. The sun peeked out menacingly, letting us know that the clock was ticking.
"We need some kind of rope or string," Ellie said. "These leaf strips aren't strong enough to attach over here. Don't we have anything else?"
We had already used up Carl's leather belt, had torn off six inches from Livvy's sundress as well as poached a few threads from her buttons. There really was nothing else. I thought carefully for a moment.
"Wait, I'll get my knife," I said and ran off. When I came back, Carl and Ellie looked at me with curiosity. I grabbed one of my braids in my hand and positioned the knife high up on it, close to the scalp.
"Charlie! What are you doing?"
Before they could say any more, I brought the knife forward and it sliced through my hair with a zing. The braided cord came loose in my hands, and I handed it over to her, then hacked the other one off in the same way. They were both wide wide-eyed, holding the limp braids in their hands.
"Don't look at me like that, it's a rope, isn't it? And human  hair is strong."
I grabbed it back from them and started to immediately show them how to knot the unstable edges of the palm frond roof, hoping they didn't see the wetness growing in my eyes. They said nothing, but both jumped in to help and in a matter of minutes we had firmly bound the rickety canopy to create what looked like a floating ox wagon.
Ellie tried to catch my eye, and I could tell she wanted to say something, to thank me, maybe, but I couldn't look at her. Not yet.
"You all ready to go?" I said, voice crackly.
Carl, Livvy and I waded outside in the water and held onto the smooth boat edges while Todd helped Ellie climb in. She had woken up with a foot that had turned from red to a disturbing purple color. I tried not to stare as she lowered herself in, her flimsy cocktail dress basically nothing but a memory at this point.
It was a solemn moment.
Todd settled up front with his improvised stump oar and Ellie took up her own, smaller oar, not much more than a flat enough slab of wood. They both looked so small and vulnerable in there. We waded out slowly, the refreshing blue water lapping up till our navels. Todd was able to dig down into the sand with his oar and push the boat along. With all we could muster, we three shoved hard and sent the boat floating smoothly off into the distance. Livvy put her hands to her mouth and cried a little, and blew them kisses. Carl put his arm around her and we all watched them bob and glide away.
They waved.
We all shared the same thoughts at that moment. Would they ever come back? What would happen when they did? What would we do without them, now? They had barely floated off fifty yards when my mind started to race off with ideas of what could happen when they returned. To my surprise, one thought popped up that never had before: I would quit the military.
We all three turned around and went back to the shore. I wanted to tell someone. Tell them that if I got out of here alive, I'd turn over a new leaf. That I saw now, clear as day, every mistake I had ever made, and now I was hungry to get back to the real world and do the work of putting everything right again. The military wasn't for me anymore. I couldn't say exactly why yet. But it was so. I thought about telling Livvy and Carl. About trying to explain some of this to them, to tell them that I was sorry, that I had been wrong, that I really had never meant to do any harm... but before I could speak Carl was already talking.
"Livvy, you want to go and check up on Anthony? I think Charlie and I had better get busy finding today's food as soon as possible. Right, Charlie?"
I nodded quickly.
Of course. Food. Maybe Todd and Ellie would find land and send us help soon. Or maybe they'd be hit by another storm and we'd never see them again. In any case, it was all out of my hands now. The only thing I could do was look for food.
The thought was strangely soothing.
Chapter 20 - Ellie
It took a long time for the figures on the beach to grow smaller and smaller and then disappear. It was as though the ocean itself was rising up to swallow them and the island they stood on, till there was nothing left but blue all around us, everywhere you looked.
It was overwhelming. The utter flatness of it all was so striking it grabbed the eye and kept it there, even though there was nothing to focus on, and no landmark to indicate any distances. We ourselves were squashed flat into that landscape, flat along the horizon which was all consuming. The world was cut in two - pale blue on top and deep heavy blue on the bottom, and us in our little boat wedged in that endless vanishing point between them. It was hard to know how fast we were moving after a while. Or whether we were moving at all.
Once we had broken away from the frilled edge where the water met the beach, and cleared the waves, the ocean was surprisingly flat and smooth. Regular, low waves lapped against the canoe. I sat near the back, under the awning that was tied in place by Charlie's hair, and Todd sat up front, his shirt off and draped over his head to shield him from the sun. He rowed like a machine. Literally, like a machine made of muscle and skin and whatever rolling energy underneath that allowed him to keep paddling so strongly and smoothly, one beat after another. I watched as the lattice of knotted muscles over his back tightened when he lifted the oar, squeezed on the opposite flank to lower it, and his entire trunk twisted strong and smooth to pull, bringing the whole boat forward on its watery track. Up came the oar again, and then again.
Out here, time seemed to flatten out as well, and the only indication that a few hours must have passed was the slow ascent of the sun. Though the rough fibers underneath me prickled right through my dress and grated at my skin, I found my own steady rhythm with my own lighter, smaller oar. Still, I was soon sweating and breathing deeply, watching his back closely and adjusting to his movements without a word - when we veered to the left I quickly double-paddled on the left side to correct us. Without turning around, he made his own efforts to keep our course straight as well. We were a machine together. A slow, fragile rowing machine powered by two slow, fragile bodies that had momentarily found a shared goal together and could move as one. And we were moving. Slowly, perhaps, but we were moving.
In, pull, lift, forward, in, pull, lift, forward, on and on went the simple cadence of wood on water, nearly meditative, till my mind found some art in it, and even though my arms were burning with exhaustion, I approached each new stroke with a fresh intent to master it.
It wasn't that it was sexual. But it was something close to it. One man and one woman out on the wild ocean of life, sharing a boat and using nothing but their bodies to propel them to an uncertain future. I imagined myself telling this romantic anecdote to all the people we'd meet once we found land again. But that thought quickly evaporated and my attention was lost again on the muscular workings of his back.
Then he stopped. Lifting a dripping oar and crossing it over the top of the boat, he carefully swung himself around so he was facing me.
Had I forgotten how to talk? Or was I just in a new stage of my life altogether, where I had forgotten why anybody needed to talk in the first place?
"I think I'll try rowing from the back for a while," he said after some time. Skin sprinkled with a few days' tan and the deep azure blue all around him, he looked like he belonged in a fancy commercial. We looked at one another for a moment. It was odd: though we both knew so little about the details of the other one's life, it was as though the turmoil we had endured together acted like a kind of glue, creating a foregone intimacy that played out on a deeper, more primal level. What we had left in this world was so meagre, it felt unnecessary to have any boundaries between us. And so we looked at each other nakedly. No pretense. For now, no words either. It felt like our gaze was all that we needed or wanted to communicate. In this new paired down day, it felt easy to shed layers, to peel down attitudes until only the barest, most essential core remained. And I found that core in his eyes.
I wanted to share everything that was knocking around in my heart. I wanted to tell him that I was sorry for involving him in my messy, stupid life. That I didn't want him to feel responsible. That he deserved better than to just be some 'other man' and that I hadn't planned any of it. That I felt raw and exposed and defenseless, but that whatever it was worth, I felt good with him, and admired him, and wanted to let him know that it was all OK, even the parts that weren't OK.
But I said nothing. We sat and silently exchanged looks. There was water, and boat, and body, and nothing else. Eventually, he cleared his throat started dragging his finger through the still water beneath.
"We should carry on again in a moment," he said. "We need to cover as much distance as we possibly can. Are you hungry yet?"
And with that he opened up the verbal floodgates and we began speaking, and we spoke for hours afterwards, with as much rhythm as we had when we rowed together.
We nibbled on the frankly revolting little morsels Livvy had packed for us and chatted about ...everything. About the training he was going to. About his mother and how he had helped her through not one but two separate bouts of cancer. About how him and his friend had this shrimp barbecue once, where he had seem the biggest shrimp of his life. We spoke about the color of the ocean, and how expensive the cruise had been, and wondered out loud if it really was a hurricane that had hit us, and if so, what name they had given it. Then the topic of Charlie came up.
"To be honest, I don't really understand her. I don't get what the relationship between you both is. I have to admit it all seemed strange, even from the first day. Is she an...?"
"An ex? Well, yes, in a way."
I was surprised at how easy it was for him to talk now, when he had seemed so withdrawn on the island.
"The thing you have to understand about Charlie, is that she's not nearly as tough as she looks. Really. Charlie is ...a complicated person. And even though things looked pretty bad back there, she is in the end my friend, and I respect a lot of things about her. Not everything, but a lot."
I laughed.
"That's a long-winded way to answer a simple question."
"Yeah I know. Put it this way: Charlie and I ...not dated exactly, but we were together very briefly. It was a mistake on my part, but she never could let it go."
"You mean you guys just slept together?" I said. A guy as hot as Todd would obviously have loads of casual relationship, so I didn't know why I felt so disappointed just then.
"Well, actually, just the one time. There was a lot of alcohol. We were young and stupid, I don't know. I guess I had a lot to prove back then."
"Wait, a lot to prove? What do you mean?"
He took his time answering me now. We were back to rowing again, our voices at the right pitch to carry over the slapping of the oars into the water. But I swear I could see him thinking in the muscles of his back. It was easier to talk, when we weren't face to face, but I could tell we were now on a sensitive topic.
"Well, before her, I was inexperienced," he said carefully.
"You were sexually inexperienced?"
"Well, yeah."
"You mean ...you were a virgin?"
His muscles rolled and pulled.
"Uh, yeah. Exactly. I'm usually not one to be pressured into anything, you know? But she really wanted to, and I guess I thought it was time and..."
"So she got really attached, but you both broke up?"
"Well, there wasn't a whole lot to break up. I was honest with her. But she was convinced, I don't know, that this meant we were soul mates or something."
We rowed on a few paces further.
"And all your girlfriends afterwards didn't mind that she was always there?"
He laughed out loud.
"All my girlfriends?"
"Well ...however many there were."
"Well, there were exactly none."
"Bullshit. You must have had girlfriends."
"Nope."
Silence.
"Well ...why not? Clearly there must have been plenty of opportunity along the way, right?" Was he an unrepentant player after all? Some kind of immature commitment-phobe? Gay?
"Well, it's hard to explain..." he said.
Here, without thinking, I reached out to gently graze the skin on his back with my fingertips to catch his attention. He spun around quickly.
"Let's stop here, I'm getting hungry again," I said.
While he balanced the oars, I pulled out some more shriveled brown mussels and laid them out on our makeshift leaf plate. They were surprisingly tasty.
"Well, try to explain. I'm listening," I said and gave him an encouraging smile.
I watched as he rolled his neck and shoulders to crick out the tension, and opened and closed his broad hands which by now must have been getting tired and sore.
"It's like this. I realized that sex was a much bigger deal than I had thought at the time. I didn't appreciate how ...attached I could get. You know, I've always been this tough guy, right? Always the one that keeps his head in emergencies, that fixes shit when it breaks. I always played the rough sports, and did hunting and shooting and all the rest. So I guess you could say I was the most surprised of anyone when I realized I was actually a big softie. Long story short, after Charlie and I ...did our thing, I realized what a mistake I'd made. That I really should have waited for someone who it would be special with, you know? I realize that sounds pretty lame."
I chewed thoughtfully on the last remaining morsel and folded away our leaf.
"No. It doesn't sound lame at all."
"You have to understand, the culture in the military is very ...well, they don't exactly encourage you to get in touch with your emotions," he laughed. "I guess I expected sex to be just another thing to master. Just something to tick off the list of achievements, to get it done and say you did it."
"And then ...it wasn't like that?"
"No, not even close. It was ...important. I don't know if I'm making sense, you know I've never told anyone about this so it's hard to put into words. But after Charlie I told myself that the next time it happened, I would make sure I did it properly."
I caught his eye.
"Wait, you're saying you haven't been with anyone since her?"
He colored a deep red.
"I'm sorry, that came out wrong, I'm just ...surprised," I said quickly.
"Yeah, well, that's the problem. I just look like a big stupid meathead, but I'm not really," he laughed awkwardly.
I shook my head.
"I would never have guessed, honestly. But thank you anyway for sharing that with me."
Again our eyes met. In some ways, talking like this felt more intimate than the secret kisses we'd stolen in the days before. I almost felt embarrassed now even thinking about kissing him again, after so personal a revelation.
"What about you? So long as we're floating out here in the middle of nowhere, sharing secrets, what are yours?" he asked.
It was going to happen. We were going to slowly ratchet up this conversation until one of us chickened out. I loved talking to him like this. Loved how this plain, blue, empty day felt like it might roll on forever.
"Well, honestly? It might shock you," I said and raised a teasing eyebrow at him.
"Shock me? Uh oh, now I'm really curious."
"You sure you want to know?"
He widened his eyes and smiled.
"Yeah, go on, tell me."
"Well, I think we should," I said.
"Should what?"
Here I caught his eye again. He understood. He looked away again, and I made out the bob in his throat as he swallowed.
"I think we should too," he said. It was as though his words were lightning that struck me hard, and now every fiber in my being was singed with electricity.
"But I do wonder if it's a good idea," he said quietly, and looked away.
"You mean ...you're worried about Anthony," I said, the disappointment hitting me hard.
"No ...well, yes, obviously Anthony is an issue, but it's more than that. Like I told you, I don't take this kind of thing lightly. Sex matters to me, you know? I don't want to feel like I felt that time before, not ever again."
His outburst was so filled with passion I almost felt a pang of guilt for being so forward.
"Look, Todd, I'm sorry, I didn't mean to--"
"I want to," he interrupted, "but I just said we have to be sure."
It would have been prudent to start rowing again soon, but I suddenly couldn't focus on that at all.
"I get it. Really, I do. My relationship with Anthony was over a long time ago, it just took a big stupid shipwreck for us to really see it. But it was a little like what you're saying - realizing too late that something isn't what you want, and now that you have a taste of it, you suddenly feel like you rushed into it, that it was a bigger deal than you anticipated. And as for this, as for us, well... no pressure. I want you to trust me."
"No pressure," he repeated, although I couldn't tell if it was a question or a statement.
"No pressure." I said.
This, of course, made everything seem one thousand times more urgent.
"Will you kiss me?" I said. He shot a hard look at me. "No pressure of course," I added, a playful smile on my lips.
I felt the boat rock slowly beneath us as he shifted his weight to me and touched tentative lips to mine, his ropey biceps glinting tanned and hard in the late morning sunshine.
We shared a kiss that was at first sweet, and quivering with nervousness, but soon melted into something deeper and more fervent. Even the slightest flick of his tongue sent massive shockwaves all through me, and in a hot moment my entire body was raw with wanting, a pulsing ache growing at my clit.
He pulled back to gaze at me, and we exchanged more of that delicious, easy openness with one another, that same direct and unguarded seeing that felt so natural out here, alone, without anybody to tell us what was right or wrong. I extended a trembling hand to rest on his crossed leg, and for a while we both were lost in how electric it felt for me to simply stroke him up and down, my hand cool against his warm skin.
I reached down to grab the hem of my ragged dress and, with some effort, pulled it up over my head and placed it carefully to the side. My bra and panties still had some sand embedded in the lace and smelt of saltwater, but that didn't seem to matter much now. Though I had starved for three days, I still had that loose, feminine swell beneath my navel. My leg looked like a train smash. And my body was so pale and soft compared to his, so yielding and loose.
But so what? His eyes were glued to my body, and as I settled my weight again and let him look at me, I finally felt for the first time what people mean when they talk about loving their bodies. I still had stretchmarks. I was still a little plump and round. But out here, in this barren ocean wasteland, I felt like Venus herself, a goddess, even more beautiful than hundreds of cubic square feet of this featureless ocean.
"You're lovely. Will you take those off, too?" he said quietly. "No pressure."
His smile was so mischievous I couldn't help but grin myself and blush deeply. My hands went to my back to unhook my bra and my breasts fell loose and full from the cups as I took the bra off and set it aside with the dress. I was about to suggest it was his turn but he was already working the button of his trousers and, with a little wobble of the boat, he stood, balancing artfully, and took his pants off. He was now completely nude.
"No underwear?" I said giggling.
"I am a military man, you know. Haven't you heard of going commando?"
I tried hard not to stare at his crotch but eventually gave up. He didn't seem to mind as I ogled him. He was well hung, and his cock was already half hard, bobbing in his lap as he adjusted his hips to sit cross legged in front of me again.
And why shouldn't I look? Was I some prudish schoolgirl who'd never seen one before? Wasn't it one of the most beautiful parts of him in any case? The perfect, most obvious proof of his manhood, something natural and wholesome and real?
It was my turn to stand and wobble, peel off my panties and wobble back down again. Our knees touched but nothing else. The fresh air slipping all over my naked body and between my legs felt so supremely liberating I couldn't stop myself from smiling.
"Your body is amazing," he said.
"So is yours."
I extended my hands out to touch him, and his abdomen pulled sharply inwards. I caressed slowly and deliberately, introducing my hands to every inch of his taut, toned stomach and grazing down over the tops of his thighs. His cock rested to one side, thickening visibly as I touched, till it stood up stiff and dark between us. I leaned forward till our foreheads touched, and he looked down with tenderness as I continued to stroke him. I dragged my fingertips closer to the coiled black hair at the root, but his hand jumped to stop mine. He swallowed hard, looking conflicted.
I pulled my hand away again. I understood. I wasn't going to push him.
I don't know why, but something possessed me to lean back, as far back as I could till I was completely shaded under the frond roof, and then, with my heart pounding madly in my chest, I began to part my legs. I spread them wide, leaned onto the small of my back and then lifted each foot till it hooked on the outside edge of the boat, my toes just dipping into the cool water. I could only imagine the view this gave him. One hand went to gently cup one breast and the other snaked down to that aching spot between my legs. Here, I split myself wide too. I wasn't surprised to find myself completely soaking. I dragged an exploratory middle finger down through that wet cleft and pressed to release the gorgeous tension pooling there. I was almost too scared to open my eyes and see what he made of all this.
He was still sitting, very upright, his cock pointing straight up, and the look on his face was a touching blend of awe and intense focus. His hand went to touch my ankle and as I stroked, he glued his gaze to my pussy, staring hard as I caressed that juicy spot till I shuddered. His hand never moved further up than my ankle. It rested just there, on that small bone, seemingly there just to make the connection. Without exchanging a word, he leaned back too, placed his other hand on his meaty cock, and began to stroke himself, matching my own indulgent pace.
The sun beat down on us and the waves whispered secretly all around, but they were just backdrop for the slow, syrupy swell of things inside the boat. It drove me wild to see his strong fist glide teasingly over the fat length of his cock. I watched in awe at the tender movements, the subtle flick of his wrist near the tip, loving that not only was he touching himself in exactly the way he needed, but that I got to witness it all.
My own hand gradually picked up pace, and I slipped lower and lower down, circling the pad of my finger round that shuddering, swollen opening. I had already imagined a thousand sordid scenes in my mind, all of them with that thick, full rod of his stuffed deep into me, stretching me apart. I only had to touch myself delicately to set all of those thousand scenes off, popping like a string of fireworks that, once ignited, exploded on their own, right through me. I couldn't help it when my eyes fluttered closed. My nipples hardened against my teasing fingertips, linking with the swirling pleasure in my core and spreading that hot bliss all through my body. I heard my own breath pick up pace.
"Fuck, you're sexy," he groaned.
Our eyes easily locked again. This time our gaze was raw and intense, his eyes alone penetrating me enough that I felt that the tightly circling finger at my cunt may as well have been him. His hand remained gently on my ankle, and the other was pulling long, smooth strokes, his veined dick pulsing inside his fist.
Watching this beautiful man pleasuring himself was the hottest thing I'd ever seen. He was simultaneously too rough and yet gentle, stroking expertly, an ordinarily private moment unfolding before my eyes.
I had never done this before with anyone. Never shown this part of myself to anyone. But with him it felt easy. And the more I saw that I was turning him on, the more turned on I got, till we were essentially fucking without touching one another.
His jaw tightened and his eyebrows twitched as I saw him get closer. My eyes feasted on every part of him. His tightly crunched ab muscles. His broad, sun-covered shoulders. His cropped hair. I loved the way the head of his cock bounced and bulged in his hands, and how his balls seemed to pull in closer to him the more riled up he got.
I wanted to reach out and touch him. But then again, this game we were playing was its own strange kind of delicious, wasn't it?
Instead of touching him, I touched myself, touched where I knew he was looking, stroked myself in those deep places I knew he wanted to fuck. And he teased me in return, his engorged pole on full display, my hunger for it enough to push me to the edge of my own orgasm. My fingers were slick now and my hips were twitching of their own accord.
"Tell me how that feels," he said, all of a sudden. There was the sweetest, most erotic desperation on his voice. I loved that this was all new for him.
"It feels ...it feels like if I make one sudden move, I'm going to explode," I said, voice breathy.
He groaned.
"Keep talking," he said and stroked, his mouth slackening as he watched my fingers work.
"It feels like an ache, like it almost hurts. Like nothing in the world could get it to stop hurting but to be filled up, to be fucked really hard..."
He licked his lips.
"I really want to see you come, Ellie," he said, in that same voice that seemed only a notch or two away from a whimper.
"I really want to see you come."
I could hear his breath snag and catch as he stroked himself harder, his eyes fixed to mine the whole time. I returned his gaze, two soaking fingers now slipping inside as I inched closer.
"Are you ready?" he whispered.
I nodded my head slowly.
I released, pressed my fingers deeper in and held on as the first wave of pleasure hit. I desperately tried to keep my eyes pinned to his as my grateful body tumbled into a long, hard, juicy orgasm that had my whole body jerking. He stared back, his whole expression twisted and washed over with pleasure as his strong body bucked and he came with me.
I looked to see one creamy glob burst from him after another, his chest heaving as he milked the tip to coax out every last drop of his cum. I couldn't suppress my own moans and felt my body tighten and twitch round my fingers, a full, sweet ecstasy beating all through me. I looked over at the edge of the boat. His other hand was still there, resting gently on my ankle bone.
My head flopped back and I relaxed, my naked body now limp under the mottled shade of the fronds. It took me a moment to remember how to breathe. I stayed as I was, still relishing how naughty it felt to expose myself like this to him. I wanted him to see me twitch. To see my open, exhausted body. To see just how much he had turned me on.
"Ellie."
I closed my eyes to the yellow sun and listened to my heart beating in my ears.
"Ellie, get up," he said, this time more panicked. I peeked at him.
"What's wrong?"
He was hastily pulling his trousers back on, dangerously rocking the boat.
"Put your clothes on. Now!"
I snapped to attention and did as he said, and just as I had slinked my bra straps on and begun to latch it closed, I saw him staring off into the distance behind me. I angled my head out of the shelter and slowly looked behind me.
It was a yacht.
And it was heading right for us.
Chapter 21 - Todd
You'd swear we both hadn't seen other human life for centuries by the way she gawped at the yacht. But it didn't take me long to spring into action.
I stood up and started waving the oar high above my head, making the canoe tilt wildly from side to side. Ellie followed suit and upped me one by screaming out at the top of her lungs. To our utter astonishment, a series of three, echoing blasts came from the yacht's horn.
They had seen us.
Thank god!
We turned to each other, amazed, and fell into a big hug. Then we both started sobbing. Easy, unstoppable tears streamed down my face as I kept looking at the yacht again and again to make sure I wasn't hallucinating.
Could it really be? Were we saved?
I didn't care if she saw me crying, dammit, this was the happiest I ever felt to see another human being. Once it was a little closer it honked its horn a second time and by now we could both make out three figures standing at the rails, waving intermittently at us. Ellie and I must have waved so hard back we nearly snapped our arms off.
It took a good ten minutes more for the yacht to get closer, and we could make out more details - it looked like a small luxury vessel, with two decks and a gleaming white finish on a nose so sharp it was like an iron gliding and slicing through the blue. When they were within fifty yards or so, I turned to Ellie again, who was pale as a ghost, and held her arm tightly.
"Come on, let's go," I said, and gestured towards the water. She looked down sadly at our meagre possessions in the boat. Her handmade sunshade bound together with Charlie's strange, final apology. Our vodka bottle filled with water and a handful of the crumpled leaves that held our paltry lunch. I understood her hesitation. We had only recently clung to these flimsy belongings like they were the most important things in our small world, the tiny difference between survival and dying out here like dogs. And now we were leaving them all behind.
I helped her climb over the edge without tipping us over and I followed, the sea water swallowing me up easily and coming to my neck. She was having difficulty with her foot again, but I clasped her hand and we swam out together towards the yacht, where the three stood, lowered their aluminum ladder and watched us approach.
The engines on the yacht had gone quiet and now the whole boat bobbed gently and waited for us like an angel of mercy. I briefly turned to look back at our own ancient boat, now suspended aimless in the crystal water, freed to pursue some other adventure without us. I cannot describe the emotions I felt as I turned away from it and placed my hands on those slick ladder rails.
Though I was shaking violently, I managed to turn halfway up and help Ellie step on after me, her foot dragging behind her. I looked up to see the cautious faces of three middle aged men, all wearing golf shirts and swimming trunks, all peering down at us and wondering what the hell they were looking at.
Wet and exhausted, we stood there on the deck before them, dripping and exhausted. It was an awkward few moments. Ellie hid slightly behind me, not yet sure whether we were completely welcome here.
"My name is Todd McGregor, and this is Ellie King. We were both aboard the Odyssey Pacifica, which went down three days ago. We were stranded on an island and escaped in a small canoe. There are four other survivors we've left on the island, one in critical condition. Please, can you help us?"
The three men exchanged gob smacked expressions, before one jumped to attention and extended his hand for a handshake, not quite knowing what else to do. It was a surreal moment. Before he could speak, though, I felt Ellie grab at my shirt and spun around to see her collapse to the deck with a heavy thud. We all raced to her and immediately the three noticed her swollen foot.
"She needs medical attention," I said, although it didn't really need saying.
"Ok, I'm going to alert the coastguard. Don't worry, you're OK now. To be honest, we didn't think there were any more survivors," one of them said.
I knelt down to stroke Ellie's brow but another one of the men was already hoisting her up and carrying her into the cabin.
"We have a first aid kit somewhere, please, come inside," he said and whisked her off. I followed dumbly, not quite believing that any of this was really happening.
I heard the firm, insistent voice of the other guy on the radio with the coast guard. I followed into a beautifully furnished room below deck complete with tiny chandelier, gleaming wooden floors and an immense blue and white bed, which the man promptly lay Ellie down on. She was already coming to.
A glass of water was thrust into my hands before he set to work mixing up a bright pink electrolyte mixture. Without a word, he fed this to us both, although I was happy to let Ellie get the lion's share. With glazed eyes she gulped it down, then lowered her woozy head back onto the pristine white pillows. She looked so wild and natural in this glossy room, like some ancient creature from another era.
I collapsed into a chair and watched the man fuss over Ellie, trying to update my brain to the reality in front of me. We'd need to get to shore and get Ellie to hospital as soon as possible, and then we needed to send for the others.
The strange, sexual window we had opened together just a few moments before had snapped completely closed and now seemed like only a passing dream. He made Ellie swallow some pills, and then felt all over her forehead before looking at her foot with a grave expression on his face.
Then he looked at me.
"You were out there for three days?" he said. I nodded. He shook his head and looked back at the wound.
"You'll be wanting something to eat I bet," he said, mostly to himself. "Look, why don't you and your wife get cleaned up - the bathroom's just through there - and I'll fix something for you both to eat, OK? Just holler if you need more soap or anything else. We'll take you both back to the harbor right now and we'll get missy here to the doctors. It'll take us a half hours, tops."
He looked more awkward than I felt, but I was hoping my utter gratitude was a given in this situation, and that he'd spare me any further small talk.
He looked over at Ellie, nodded at us both and closed the door on us. Ellie relaxed her head over to look at me, her eyes bleary.
"I'm sorry, I don't know why I keep fainting like that," she said.
I immediately went over to her and laid at her side, stroking her arm to let her know that she didn't need to apologize, didn't need to say anything at all. I was still reeling from what we had just done together on the boat, and now all those new sensations were congealing and taking shape in my mind. My 'wife'. It was a weird mistake for the guy to make, but it was only one of a million strange things that had happened today. I didn't correct him. Maybe I liked that we looked like we belonged together.
She dozed in and out of sleep. I could smell the strawberry flavored electrolyte mix on her breath. I got up, went into the bathroom and resolved to run her a bath, even though at this point I was feeling pretty bushed myself. The tub was small but luxuriously fitted. I filled it quickly with piping hot water and stared dumbly at the rising level, wondering if I too was in shock.
On the spur of the moment, I grabbed a bottle of foam bath and squeezed some under the running water. It felt ridiculous, to have a full-on bubble bath after everything we'd been through. It wasn't that such an extravagance was necessarily wanted. But if we were going to ease back into reality now, a bubble bath would be an innocent enough introduction.
I went back to the bed, gently lifted her up and smiled down at her weak but contented face. I carried her to the bathroom, gently peeled of her clothes - that poor party dress that had been ocean dunked so many times by now - and her underwear.
She held my neck as I lowered her down into the soapy water. It felt like heaven to touch her, after what had happened on that little wooden boat. She was certainly not a tiny woman, but her figure was mesmerizing. Her generous, soft breasts fell simply against my chest. I found it strangely touching how her porcelain skin was burnt slightly red around those places her dress hadn't covered her. And I couldn't tear my eyes away from that enticing little triangle nested between her legs.
She was awake, but drowsy, looking up at me with bleary eyes and something that might have been a smile on her face, might have been a grimace. I suddenly felt a wash of guilt at not having protected her more from all of this. Could I have found us more food? Would she have felt stronger now, and would her foot be healing better, if I had been smarter and found a better way to survive on that island?
I released her weight into the bathtub, then proceeded to undress myself and climb in beside her. She didn't seem totally conscious, and her eyes were closed, but her head followed my every sound and I could tell she was trying hard to stay with me.
"Just relax, Ellie. You're very hungry, that's why you feel so tired. Once we clean up here, we'll have something to eat and then we can rest until we get back to shore, OK?"
She nodded.
I climbed in and positioned myself around her, her back resting against my chest and my legs framing her body on either side. It was the same position we had taken when I helped her swim back from the mussel rock and she ...touched me.
I took a loofah in my hands and began gently squeezing water all over her body. I took my time. Her eyes flickered open and she watched me with interest. I softly soaped up every inch of her beautiful, exhausted body and she yielded entirely to me. I realized after a while that I felt proud. She had been in crisis mode for the last three days, and had been bravely holding on. Now, with the end in sight, she could finally relax and let go. And she trusted me enough to do it in my arms.
I had to get out of the tub to wash her long hair. I supported the back of her head as she lay back and submerged herself till the water lapped at her temples. Her hair fanned out like a mermaid's under the water, almost the same color as the soap bubbles. I gently ran my fingers through it, imagining that I was loosening out every last particle of sand, every last thread of stress from the ordeal we had escaped together. When I had finished with her hair, I ran some soap suds over her belly and gently slipped my hands between her thighs, soaping the soft, coiled fuzz there. My heart beat madly in my throat as I guided a tentative finger down the middle slit, opening gently to allow in the warm, soapy water. Her knees fell gently open and she let me.
I washed over her raw, angry looking wound and spent my time cleaning the sand off her other foot, too. Once I had cleaned every part of her, her eyes looked brighter and she even refused my hand as I offered to lift her out of the tub. Slowly she stood and climbed out, the water streaming off the many peaks and valleys of her full, womanly figure. I quickly hopped in after her to wash up myself and let the water out. She stood and watched me attentively as she toweled herself off.
A tiny island of sand gathered at the plug as the water drained away. We toweled one another off together, in silence, the simple tasks of bathing as welcome and monumental as any solemn ritual ever was. I was feeling more and more refreshed by the minute, and if the mottled pink color growing on her cheeks was anything to go by, she was feeling the same.
When we made our way back into the bedroom, we instantly discovered a little tray on the bedside table, and it was laid out with a few sandwiches, some fruit and what looked like glasses of lemonade. Without skipping a beat, she rushed over to it, flung herself down on the bed and in a second she had already gobbled down half a sandwich.
"Oh my god, Todd, this is the best thing I've eaten in my entire life," she said with a full mouth, and I could do nothing but laugh. It was a joke. But in a way, it was painfully true. Still chewing, she got to work on the second half of her sandwich, and held up the tray to offer me the other sandwich.
I shook my head.
"Why don't you eat both? We'll be back on shore soon," I said.
It was food enough for me just to watch her guzzling away, not even a half second of thought given to manners. I loved it. I had seen her sad and angry and horny and now, I had seen her ravenous, as well. I liked all her variations. And I liked just how much she and I had shared together these last three days - like we were both on a weird intimacy crash course.
I swallowed back the glass of lemonade and paused for a moment to feel the sugary ice cold reaching all the way down into my chest. While she got to work on the other sandwich, I sat beside her on the bed and ate an apple, then moved the tray to the door, checking to see that it was locked. It was. We found some simple clothing in the cupboard and dressed, her in a too-big sundress and me in a pair of old-man shorts and a t-shirt that had a picture of a cartoon manatee on it and 'FLORIDA' printed above it in a watery font. We took a moment to laugh at one another.
Then we both lay back on the bed, staring up at the molded ceiling, remembering how good it felt to eat and drink again. Our eyes were adjusting to the modern human landscape again: it was all plastic, metal, and fiberglass and no longer sand, water and tree.
"You know, when I bought tickets for the cruise, I told myself that it was a test. That depending on what happened during those two weeks, I would make my next important life decisions, you know?" she said thoughtfully.
I thought about reaching out to grab her hand, but held back.
"Looks like I got more than I bargained for, didn't I?" she said and laughed quietly.
I didn't want to think too much of what would happen next, back at shore. Whether she'd disappear from my life forever. I knew that the second we hit the harbor, there'd be a flurry of activity - there would be authorities, doctors, lots of talking, explaining, stress. For now, she was all mine, though.
I reached my hand over and took hers. We held one another there like that. I could still feel the sea waves underneath us. The same ocean that had wrecked everything was now pacified and carrying us safely to where we belonged.
She turned around and pressed her back to me. She was still warm and smelt like soap. I turned to curl my body around hers, and as I did so, I realized just how tired I also was. Without thinking, my hands started to tenderly, gently trace her curves, down and then slowly up her hips, her waist, her arms and at that faint swell where her breasts began. She pressed back into me.
I was hard again.
Wordlessly, her own hands glided over her body and soon she had shimmied up the end of her dress and pulled it high to her waist, exposing her bare, warm ass to me. I pulled my own shorts off again and pressed my naked, excited body against hers. We moved quietly, like ghosts, like two survivors who are dazed to find that they still have life in them, still have appetites.
It was easy to find that delicious sensation again, the one we had stirred up together on the canoe just a while ago. This time, though, I was as close to her as I could get, my face buried in her sweet, damp hair and the full length of my body pressing firm up against the full length of hers. Together, we found a slow, gentle rhythm grinding against one another, me rubbing into the silky skin of her amazing ass, and she writhing carefully back against me.
I don't know how it happened. It was certainly not something I planned. I had spent all my life stressing about sex, stressing about expectations and obligations and crumpled under the weight of my own stupid neuroses - but all at once it felt like the most natural thing in the world to slip my cock between her full thighs and leave it there. She closed around over me, stroking me till I grew even more stiff. I nearly lost my mind when I realized that her beautiful, sweet pussy was the source of that warm wetness I now felt slick over the length of me. The head of my cock twitched, almost painfully. I just had to be inside her.
It was no momentous occasion. No great barrier was crossed, no new realm penetrated or vast new world unlocked. In fact, slipping inside her felt like the exact opposite: like coming home. Like being separate from her was the mistake, and coming together again was the relief. It was the perfect, satisfying sigh of one puzzle piece folding frictionless into another. My fears and anxieties disappeared instantly. I knew why I had never done this with anyone before. I had been waiting for her. Waiting for this feeling.
Even our breath went silent as I tilted my hips and brought the entire heft of my cock into her, pressing up and in till I could go no further, and the edge of my body met the edge of hers. I was struck how fucking hot she was inside. She was like a magic castle, with secret rooms that unlocked and opened to me the deeper in I pressed. I wanted to reach all the way inside her, to love her with every inch I had, to leave nothing of her unopened. We lay together, my balls pressing faintly against her now sopping clit, and breathed.
My arms easily found a place for themselves around her body. She folded effortlessly into my grasp, and every other part of us found its twin on the other: my chin nested in the crook of her neck, my knees tucked into the back of hers, my arm discovered a home tucked under the smooth cleft where her large breasts met her waist.
I closed my eyes and relaxed into her, feeling myself almost swell to fill her gorgeous cunt. When I pulled out slightly it was only to press back into her again, and repeat that sweet, sweet gliding feeling of finding my way back inside her each time. She was wet and impossibly silky, her hips tilting back to accept me in again.
And again. And again.
I placed my hands on her hips, not to guide the rhythm there - she was already fucking me well all on her own - but to all the more appreciate how beautiful it felt to have her moving against me like that, wanting me, taking me all the way in and then out again.
I pulled back and peered down a little, a dirty thrill shooting through me to see the wide bulk of my cock cramming into her little hole. I marveled at how her body accepted it all, how that split peach of her pussy clung to me and stretched around every thrust I gave her. Other than her slow, secret hips moving against my crotch, she was still and silent, and I had to rely on the signals of her body to know that she was enjoying it. Enjoying me.
This was it. It was happening, and it was nothing at all like what I had imagined. Every night on the island I had furiously jerked off with the most outrageous of fantasies in mind, Ellie always center stage. But now it was actually happening, and it was so, so much hotter than even my horny, desperate self had imagined.
Having already come so recently, it was only a few minutes before I felt ready again, as though being rescued and dragged out of the Atlantic Ocean was a mere interlude in our fucking and the previous three days had just been an extra long foreplay session. When I felt the peak of my orgasm cresting over me, I didn't resist it, and it washed over me easily and fully. I pressed up into her as hard as I could, softly growling despite my best efforts to remain quiet, and squeezed her ass cheeks hard, trying to get give her every drop of cum right into the deep, delicious core of her body.
She came soon after, too, slow and syrup-like, and her exhale had the faintest sound of a whimper along its edges as she twitched hard and shuddered all through her hips.
It was dream sex. Floaty, soft sex. The kind of sex you can only have when you're teetering on the edge of death and life, caught between two places, between stranger and lover, between hopeless and hopeful, between land and sea. Coming inside her felt like a giant wave crashing onto the shore and melting into millions of fluffy, foamy bubbles that stroked over the sand on their way back out again.
I softened inside her and nuzzled deeper into her neck. I held her. In a moment, she wriggled off me, pulled down the hem of her dress and rearranged my arms around her again. I was happy to be her blanket. We dozed for only a few minutes or so before we heard a polite knock on the cabin door and the voice of one of the men.
"How are you two doing?" he cried. "We're just about getting ready to pull into harbor. You all set?"
He knew we had been fucking. I knew he knew. But I didn't care. We had been starved out there, and we were going to greedily sate all our separate hungers now: for food, water, fucking.
We would need our strength for whatever was waiting for us back on shore. I had seen Ellie at her most frightened, he most desperate. I had seen her more naked than I thought it possible to see another human being. I had seen her dirty, in torn clothes and desperately gnawing at half empty mussel shells for nourishment. I had seen her limp and cry and swim and even fight.
But the prospect of what we would do now, in the real world again, was more than a little daunting.
Chapter 22 - Ellie
Two days later

"The doctor said to just take it very, very easy. Don't mention it every second OK? Just leave it be. She'll let us know when she's ready to talk about it. I know how you can be."
"Don't be ridiculous, what do you mean how I can be? She's not an idiot, she's going to notice one way or another, don't you think?"
"You see, that's what I mean, don't be so callous."
"Fine, I already said I won't, can you drop it? She needs us right now, let's just try and keep our cool, OK?"
"Fine."
The voices were familiar to me but it took me a long while to place them: my mother and sister, in one of their usual bickering sessions.
I peeled my eyes open and all at once a million facts burst into my mind, which up until that moment had been blank: I was in the hospital, they had given me something and told me how they would need to operate. My mother and sister had been there, drifting in and out of my awareness so that I wasn't quite sure if they were really there or only my feverish memories.
I was back on shore. I was in a crisp hospital bed, the sheets dry and stiff against my skin. I was alive. I was also in immense pain. But I was now waking up, and quickly. I sat up in bed with such force it made my head spin. I saw them both turn to gawk at me.
"Ellie! Good lord, child, you'll yank your drip out!"
My mother came rushing over to me and helped me sit upright. I swallowed down hard to rid myself of a weird ball of nausea at the back of my throat. Suddenly, I remembered my mission.
"The others," I slurred. "Charlie and Carl and Livvy and ...I have to..."
They both exchanged worried glances as I struggled to get my tongue to work properly.
"Yes, honey, they sent a rescue party back to Santa Majella the second they could," my mother said carefully, her hands pausing over my pillows as she fluffed them. My sister was already on her way out the room, presumably to go and call the doctor.
"OK, sweetie, there you go. The most important thing to do now is just rest, and heal, OK?"
I felt confused and irritated. I didn't like the way reality was only coming back to me in stingy patches. I didn't like the way she looked down at me, barely concealing the pity in her face. She had seen us off at the port a few days ago, but at the same time it felt as though I hadn't seen her in a lifetime.
"Where's Anthony?" I managed to say.
She frowned and busied herself with tucking me in, even though the blankets were fine. I asked her again. My sister Angela returned and bought a man in a doctor's coat and blue check shirt with her. Mom looked relieved.
"Ms. Elinor King, so happy to see you're awake and with us," said a large, imposing man, blustering over and immediately examining me. He wasted no time looking into my eyes, then he touched the soft underside of my jaw and examined my wrists for something. I was too weak to ask what he was doing, or resist, even though I was beginning to get tired of feeling like people were tiptoeing around me.
"Doctor, where is my... where is Anthony?" I asked. He gave me the same frown my mother did. I couldn't summon energy to get hysterical, but it was starting to become obvious that there was bad news, and that it was being deliberately kept from me. The thought alone made something panicky grow at the base of my throat again.
"Please just tell me what's going on," I sobbed, and my head panged with my raising my voice. The doctor perched himself seriously on the edge of the bed, and clasped his hands together. My mother and sister hovered by the shut door, looking like they were attending a funeral.
Fuck, I hated this.
"Elinor, you've been through quite a lot these last few days. Now, you were shipwrecked on a tiny and uninhabited island in the Pacific called Santa Majella. Your cruise ship sank but rescue missions managed to save most of the passengers. Though they did a scan of the area for days, for some reason they never discovered anyone on your island, and you were presumed dead along with dozens of others." He spoke clearly and dispassionately, like he was reading from a textbook.
"The gentleman who saved you told us about the other four remaining on the island, and the emergency services were dispatched to retrieve them." Here he paused and looked like he was choosing his next words carefully. "You were very ill, Ellie. The injury to your foot was serious, and caused a loss of blood supply to the area which deprived that tissue of oxygen. We've given you antibiotics but you needed emergency surgery to remove the affected tissue..."
There it was again. The panicky lurch at the back of my throat. I hurriedly threw off the blanket covering me to look at my foot, and cried out in horror at what I saw. Or didn't see.
"Now, Ellie, try not to panic, we needed to act fast as the infection was spreading very rapidly and could have traveled to your heart..."
His words disappeared as I tried to understand what I was looking at.
My foot.
It was gone.
A thick padding of bandages was bound tightly around it, but it was as clear as it was shocking: the place where my foot used to be was now empty. Just fresh air in the place that should have been my foot. A whole lot of nothing. Completely gone. Missing.
I couldn't even sob. I'm not sure what happened in those brief moments afterwards, but the doctor must have rushed to give me a tranquilizer and as I collapsed back down onto my pillows, I could see the appalled faces of my mother and sister, their hands to their mouths.
It couldn't be happening. I had just hurt myself. It was all just a mistake. They had stolen part of my body and this was all just a big, sick, morbid mistake, a joke...
Some traumas are so extreme that they can only be taken in pieces. Some tragedies are so big they need to be broken into smaller tragedies and swallowed one chunk at a time, because at full size the human body and mind simply cannot digest it all.
Over the next few hours, I descended far into a strange pit. I was asleep, drugged up heavily, and would wake up for a moment, confront that bizarre thought again, and then pass out again from the sheer improbability of it all. No foot? How could that possibly be?
The next time I woke and encountered the same nasty, immovable fact, it felt duller than the time before. It took me hours, the better part of a day to look at the nasty fact square on and realize it wasn't going anywhere. This really was my life now. They had amputated my foot. And it couldn't be put back on again.
Numb, I somehow found my way through those hours. My mother and sister flitted in and out like angels of death; the doctor came, with medicines and platitudes. The light in the room changed from bright and fresh to dimmer, until the fluorescent lights were turned on and the sickening smells of food wafted in and out of consciousness.
I don't know how long it was before I could sit up, clear headed, and take a look down at my mutilated body again. Shaking hands pulled off the thin, scratchy bedding. The stump was as I left it. Hideously asymmetrical with my other foot, which now seemed like some kind of mercy. I touched the bandages and found them cold and strange. My brain told me that the sore flesh was still there, even though my eyes gave proof that I no longer had a foot to feel, pain or otherwise.
The sensation was too strange. Lump in my throat, I quickly covered myself back up again and tried to think. This was OK. I could do this. My mind raced with potential futures for myself. All my thoughts seemed lopsided and leaning. What the hell was I going to do with one foot? My numbness started to feel like a protective blanket, and when the pain got too much, I happily retreated inside it. I couldn't think about this. Not now. I turned on the TV.
I nearly laughed out loud when I saw what was on the screen.
Me.
I turned up the volume and tried to piece together the news segment that I was watching. Footage of unassuming sea water was cut with photos of the front of a hospital and back again to a groomed woman in a studio.
"Onto news about Hurricane Maude now, and confusion around the number of actual dead and injured remains. Authorities have now claimed that last week's four separate rescue missions sent to Santa Majella revealed no signs of survivors, raising fears that still others may have been missed and stranded at sea. The unnamed pair rescued by leisure yacht Esprit are in critical condition and receiving medical care at Long beach Memorial Hospital. First responders have yet to make a statement about other survivors remaining on the island, but ABC7's correspondent will stay with the story."
The little icon in the lower right of the screen was a cartoon coconut palm on an island. The word 'Stranded' blazed across the bottom of the screen as the woman shifted in her chair and switched to her next story.
I flicked the off button.
It was a lost at sea story, but it was real, and it was happening to me. They knew about the other four on the island. Were they here in this hospital with me? A million thoughts knocked through my mind.
Where was Anthony? Was Todd OK? What did they even do with my foot, once they took it off!? What day was it? Do you get a refund if the ship sinks? Had I even bought insurance? When last did I eat? If I fell asleep again would I wake up with some other part of me removed?
Another day may have passed, each time with me trying to stomach a little more of the bizarre set of circumstances that had suddenly become my life. It was like walking into very cold water an inch at a time, your whole body trying to pull up and away from it with every step in. I lost track of day or night. But at some point the doctor returned and sat on the edge of my bed again.
"You're lucky to be alive," he said eventually, and the words were empty and completely meaningless, like something said in another language.
"A hurricane of that magnitude is rare for this neck of the woods. But they say the vessel had already drifted far enough off course that it caught the brunt of it before the storm broke land. It really is remarkable, how unlucky you were in all this."
It seemed like an overly personal conversation to be having. I said nothing and hoped he'd just talk about my catheter or send a nurse in to change my dressings.
"Now, Elinor, it's time we had a frankly unpleasant conversation about a few things. I know you've asked after your fiancé. I know you must be sick with worry. The fact is, though, that when the emergency squad arrived at the island, he was already in a very serious condition..."
Anthony's face popped into my mind's eye.
I thought of how carefully he'd ironed and folded his shirts before we left. How he double and triple checked our itinerary, and how he had planned everything in his life, and mine, with exactly the same obsession. I thought of his pale legs getting burnt in the sun, and the way he looked at me when he keeled over after Charlie stabbed him. I couldn't stop a half dozen stinging tears from rolling their way down my cheeks.
"He was suffering from acute alcohol poisoning, Elinor. His liver was failing. It's not easy for me to be the one to tell you this, but he didn't make it back to the hospital in time. He passed away on the trip back to land."
The air around my ears whined and crackled. I couldn't swallow. I suddenly felt woozy. The doctor placed one firm hand on my arm and tried to steady me, and I instinctively clasped back.
"He ...he's dead?"
The doctor's crestfallen face was his only answer. He closed a large hand over mine and gave a consolatory tap.
"He ...you say his liver?" I sputtered. I was trying desperately to stop myself from crying, and this was all I could think of: asking for details.
"He had a blood alcohol level of 0.5. It was astronomical. At certain high levels the gag reflex is compromised and the body is unable to throw up anymore. And his wound..."
"Charlie!" I said.
"Excuse me?"
"He had a stab wound," I said and tried to blink through my tears and focus on his face. The doctor frowned deeply.
"Yes, well, the police are looking into that matter, and it's not for me to pass comment on that. His autopsy showed acute liver failure. The other matter is being dealt with. Now I realize this is a terribly emotional time so please don't hesitate to--"
"So it was the alcohol? The reason he's dead is because of the alcohol?" I said. I could hear my voice getting louder. He looked at me a little alarmed.
"Well, yes. He must not have realized the damage he was doing. He was severely dehydrated. In any case, Ms. King, I must be going and--"
"It wasn't Charlie's fault then," I said. And not mine, I thought silently.
"Well, I won't say that having a stab wound helped, but it was largely superficial. I realize this can be hard to hear but whatever happened on that island, Ms. Charlie Beaufort is not to blame for your fiance's death..."
I stared at him. I knew what he was thinking. A sordid lover's quarrel. A lethal fight. And now, the jealous fiancé, seeking revenge for her murdered partner. I said nothing. It was easier to let him believe that than the real reason I was crying right now.
He rose and made for the door, giving me one last final pat on the arm.
"Your mother and sister are on their way," he said, and left.
The room was quiet, waiting for me to fill it up again with something. Would I cry? Would I flop down onto the bed and sob into the pillows? Or I would I sit here for a moment longer, staring numbly at the wall, waiting for my emotions to catch up with me?
Chapter 23 - Todd
Eight months later

I looked at my watch. I had about twenty minutes till my next lecture. I put my head down and picked up my pace. The courtyard looked beautiful this time of year - a few of the trees were just changing color and things felt cozier somehow. I hoisted my backpack higher up on my shoulder and got lost in the rhythm my feet found on the paving bricks underfoot.
When I had first put in my official withdrawal of my application to train as a SEAL, my supporting commanders took it as a sign of temporary insanity. After everything that had happened, they kindly told me they'd keep my spot available till I was ready. But I never became ready. They asked me why. Everyone asked me why. But it was hard to put my finger on what exactly made me change my mind so abruptly.
I had dreamt of being a SEAL for longer than I could remember. It felt so natural a choice that I had never even imagined another path for myself. And yet, all of that seemed to evaporate completely in the days after we made it back to California and I could start piecing my life back together. It was something I couldn't tell anyone, but as the months rolled by, I began to think of the entire wreck as a blessing. I had only been sleepwalking before, going along with a life path that I had never had the guts to question, caught in the momentum of something that felt big and inevitable ...right up until it just didn't anymore.
Sometimes, the only way to move forward in life is to completely destroy everything you've done till that point.
I went back to school. My minor celebrity probably helped a little given my less than stellar grades. People never had questions for me exactly, instead they only found it necessary to tell me at length what they would have done in my situation. "Oh, I would have gone absolutely crazy!" they'd say when they realized I was the guy they'd seen on the news, or "If I were you, I would have just stayed out there, huh? Your own little island paradise? Ha ha!"
I didn't mind. I'm not particularly good with words so I soon gave up trying to explain to people exactly what it had been like for me out there. The media forgot about the whole incident in a month. It was a freak hurricane that no weather models had been able to predict or track, and it was over so quickly people could scarcely believe that yes, an entire luxury cruise ship had gone down into the Atlantic and yes, only a few survivors remained bobbing in the ocean.
There had been events. There were charity benefits and memorial services for those who didn't survive. But I didn't go to any of them. Again, I couldn't explain why. My tragedy felt smaller, and more personal. Like it was only running parallel to this great national disaster that had caught everyone's imagination, and it felt weird to go out in public and mourn mutually for a thing I felt had nothing to do with any of them.
My feet moved swiftly over the courtyard. Today was my favorite module, and we were doing my favorite topic: genetic mutations and how they play out in that epic dance of life called natural selection. I had always held an amateur interest in ideas like this, but something about the shipwreck made it feel all the more real for me: tiny 'mistakes', or accidents, in the DNA can occasionally prove to be so beneficial to the organism that instead of it being a drawback, it becomes a great gift, something that allows the creature to thrive where everyone else can't. Sometimes, you have to completely break something in order to see what new and interesting possibilities lie just ahead. The shipwreck was a total, unmitigated disaster. But somehow, it was the one mistake that allowed me to thrive in a new idea, a new life I had never even dreamt of for myself up until that moment.
I hadn't heard again from the others.
That was mostly on purpose.
Carl and Livvy stayed in touch for a while but they lived in another state and had their own busy lives. Last I heard Carl had written a book about it but I decided to leave well alone enough and not read it. I had tried to reach out to Charlie a few times, but she had been reluctant. She gave me a letter she had and wanted me to pass it on to Ellie. But Ellie was the last person I wanted to see. Yet another thing I couldn't explain, what can I say.
Once I had delivered her safely to the hospital, I was no longer needed. And when I later heard that Anthony hadn't made it out alive, the remorse I felt was so intense I couldn't bear to seek out Ellie again. I wanted to speak to her again more than anything, no mistake. To just share a moment again with the one person who I felt truly understood, who would listen to me and not feel the need to say anything in return. I was so hungry for that connection again, for that ease I had found with her and yes, for that that touch. That sweet way that our bodies had fit so well together...
But that was just selfishness. Just dreaming.
Ellie had lost her fiancé. And while he lay hurt and fading on the island, we were thoughtlessly distracted with our own needs. I strongly suspected that she would never want to see me again; that back then she had temporarily lost her mind and that now we were back in the real world, she'd be mortified to see me, to face me again after what we had done together. In truth, a part of me was too afraid to meet her just because I couldn't bear having her say all of this directly to my face.
I was nearly at the lecture hall when someone called out my name. I must have been hallucinating. I spun around, thinking how dumb it was that I had been daydreaming about Ellie so hard I was starting to actually hear her voice, when I saw her. In the flesh, standing there in the sunshine of the courtyard with her hair loose and a green satchel slung over her torso. It was really her. She looked as surprised to see me as I was to see her.
"Ellie...?"
She had a crooked smile on her lips as she walked over to me. I hadn't seen her in the better part of a year.
"How did you find me here?" she said with a shocked laugh.
"Find you? I study here."
Her eyes widened.
"But I study here!" she said.
We both laughed nervously. God, she looked good.
"This is... this is quite a surprise," I said. I couldn't help but grin. The sight of her face just did that to me, even still. She smiled back.
The drama from the months before seemed smaller, and more manageable, now that she was just a girl with wavy hair and a satchel standing in front of me.
"You ...I thought you'd be out there doing something heroic on a battleship or something," she said.
Had she always been this pretty? In all my memories, Ellie was unkempt. Her wild, sandy silvery hair was all windswept, and her bare feet dusted on the bottom with beach sand. Now it almost felt like meeting a strange new family member of hers, one who wore crisp new clothing and had her hair styled and colored.
"Well, that was in another life," I said. "I'm studying now. Biomedicine. Cool, huh?"
Her face was so bright and alive.
"Biomedicine? Ooh, fancy. I'm studying too. Obviously," she gestured to the books she had perched on her hip. "I'm finally doing my teacher's diploma... of finishing it, I should say. Luckily they let me transfer a bunch of credits so it wasn't a total cold start for me."
My eyes fixed on her small pink fingernails clasped round her books. I didn't know what else to say. It was all the small talk I could muster. Was this really the woman I had spilled my guts to on that boat a million years ago?
"Hey, Ellie, isn't it weird how this is so much more awkward than anything that happened on the island?"
She laughed instantly and easily.
"You're so right! Actually, I think about that kind of stuff all the time. How life was almost less scary for those few days, you know? Just easier somehow. That's probably going to sound really bad..."
"No, no I understand exactly what you mean. Like, we'll never starve again, or have to worry about where to sleep for the night, but I almost feel like that was a better kind of stress than, well... you know," I said and held up my own books.
She giggled again.
She had a rich, soft laugh that felt like a warm breeze in mid-summer. Hearing it again like that I realized that all this time I had been missing it.
"You too, huh? I feel you. A few rounds in the ring with my new tutor group isn't exactly life-threatening, but it sure feels like it!"
We let the smiles fade from our faces slowly, and then we were there together, again, and it felt very much like something should happen.
"I thought about you a lot, after everything," I said quietly. She looked away and then back into my eyes.
"Me too."
"You never got in touch though," I added.
She frowned.
"Neither did you," she said simply.
I shifted my weight. To hell with the lecture.
"But ...I didn't feel it was right to contact you. It wasn't my place," I said. Her frown softened and she sighed.
"I don't know what to say. I thought about it. I thought about finding you and calling you up. I saw you gave that interview as well but then I thought, you're probably moving on, probably continuing with your training..."
"I thought about you every moment," I blurted. She looked at me quickly. In those eyes was all the same gentleness and openness that had drawn me in that first night I had literally run into her on the deck of the ship. But she looked pained.
"I never got in touch because of ...well, you know. Because of Anthony. It still weighs on me, Ellie."
"Me too," she said quietly. "But Todd, please don't blame yourself..."
"I do blame myself. I had no right. Say what you want about him, you were his fiancée... and that's not the sort of man I want to be."
She sighed loudly and looked away again.
"Todd, Anthony killed himself."
I was taken aback. What an odd thing to say.
"What? But the cut Charlie gave him..."
"Charlie had nothing to do with anything. Anthony had a history with alcohol. It doesn't make anything any easier, but I understand a little better now why it happened. He poisoned himself. The doctors chalked it up to a big mistake, that he was delirious from the heat, or dehydrated, or he just didn't realize how much he drank. But I know Anthony. Anyway, I don't want to talk about any of this. I've spent months in therapy, and I'm finally getting out of it now, you know? And a lot can change in six months..."
"Eight months."
"What?"
"It's been eight months since we last saw each other."
She gave me a slow, loaded look.
"Hey, Todd?"
"Yeah?"
"Do you wanna just start over again?"
"What ...do you mean?"
"I mean... I've only just bumped into you and already everything is so serious. I'm too young to carry around ghosts, Todd. I'm done mourning and moping. Can we just..." here she screwed her eyes as she stared towards the sun and thought for a moment. "Can we just pretend that none of it ever happened?"
I was surprised.
"Let's just imagine that you and I have never even met before, and see what happens?" she said cautiously.
I smiled at her, a little unsure. But the look on her face was so light and welcoming I couldn't help but nod.
"Yeah, OK. Why not? Like, we just pretend this is the first time we're meeting?"
The look on her freckled face was so deliciously mischievous.
"Yeah! Let's leave all of that in the past. No guilt, no memories and dredging up stuff that's already over. Just you, me, and whatever happens today, right here," she said, and swooped her hand to gesture across the courtyard.
"No pressure?" I said, and gave her a naughty wink.
"No pressure," she said with smile.
I exhaled and looked around at the courtyard. The students had filtered off to the surrounding lecture halls. But making that class was the last thing on my mind right now.
I extended my hand to her.
"Well, in that case, Todd McGregor," I said. "Pleased to meet you."
She grinned.
"Elinor King," she said and nodded cordially.
"Can I call you Ellie?"
"Sure."
I leant forward and lowered my voice. She leant forward to hear me.
"Before we start, though, there is just one thing I'd like to dredge up from the past," I said, suddenly serious.
"What's that?"
"Well, I still owe you that second cigarette," I said with a grin.
She laughed.
"Fair's fair! Pay up then so we can start with our clean slate," she said and held out her hand.
"Trouble is... I don't smoke anymore," I said.
She raised her eyebrows.
"Really? Hm, I'm impressed."
"Yes, well, as you said, a lot can change in six months!"
"Eight," she said and winked back at me.
When we decided to ditch classes for the rest of the day and head over to my apartment, it felt like we had both been washed away by a deluge of stories and jokes and questions and anecdotes. I had never spoken so much with anyone. We had spent at least three hours that afternoon chatting away and I still felt like I hadn't said enough. She was the same Ellie I remembered, but with so many other, different facets to her it was like seeing a 3D version of something you had only till then known from flat pictures.
There was no topic we didn't jump into and yack away at. It felt so easy and wonderful and happy. And after some time it really did feel like we had started anew. She slowly started to become a new person to me, and I realized in talking to her how different I myself was. There was a comfortable familiarity that was set off just there, off on the horizon, where we could come and find it later. I already knew, in my own small, unacknowledged way, that I loved her. I already knew that my body understood and adored hers. I already knew that should we look closely enough, we could find depths of passion between us ...after all, we'd already done it.
And yet it felt easy to merely put that aside for a moment and just... talk. Like we could take our time wading back up to that far point again, assured of its existence, guaranteed of what delicious things were waiting there for us when we were ready for them. It was like we had jumbled all the usual milestones of a typical relationship. We had ticked off the gut-wrenching parts, the steamy sex parts, the soft, tender parts. What we hadn't done was be silly. We hadn't goofed around and talked nonsense and relaxed on a sofa with one another. But we were sure as hell catching up on that front.
"You know what I think?" she said suddenly, putting her coffee cup off to the side. We were already on our third pot and the sun had just set.
"What?" I said.
"I think you and I should go on a date."
"A date? Then what the hell have we been doing all this time?" I said laughing. She playfully slapped my forearm.
"I'm serious! Consider yourself vetted for a real, proper, genuine date." I looked down at her hand touching my arm, right where she had left it.
"Vetted, huh? Awesome. Glad it only took..." I checked my watch. "Five and a half hours!"
"God, has it really been that long?" she said.
I nodded.
"I shudder to think what a big, long, serious, genuine date would look like with you," I said. She laughed.
"Well, first of all you're going to meet me at that little pizza place on fourth, you know the one? The one that has all those pot plants on the wall?"
"Carlucci's or something?"
"I don't know. But there. We meet at 6pm, to give us lots of time."
"Time for...?"
"Wooing. You're going to woo me, you see," she said.
"Uh huh. I see. How am I going to do that?"
"Well, you're going to pitch up with some random little gift. I'll say how you shouldn't have, but really I'll love it. Then you'll say something sweet, and you'll ask if you can kiss me."
"Damn. I sound charming."
"You are charming," she said and flashed me sparkly eyes. "I mean, will be charming, on our date..."
She couldn't help but giggle.
"What happens next?" I said, putting my chin in my hands.
"Well... after a lovely meal and amazing conversation, we head out for a walk over the commons, to see if we can spot the moon. By that point, you'll probably be wanting to hold my hand."
"Sounds about right."
"Then, I'll suggest we come back to my place, for a coffee, only, I won't be really asking you for a coffee," I said.
I gave a phony gasp.
"What! You don't mean to say..."
"Oh yes. By that point I'll be seducing you."
"You minx, you."
"I know. Thing is, you'll be a little reluctant. You'll say, are you sure?"
"And...?"
"I'll understand that it's too soon. We agree to reach a friendly compromise."
"A compromise?"
"We settle on a long, sexy kiss against a tree on the commons, and bid each other adieu," she said with a nod of her head.
"Oh god, do I get another date?" I asked.
She laughed loudly.
"Depends on how the kiss goes, I guess."
Epilogue - Ellie
Four Years later

Saint Majella. Patron saint of expectant mothers. And the island on which all of this started.
It was ridiculous how close it was to the mainland, when you really looked. Because of its size, it wasn't shown on most regular maps. Though it was only an unassuming 12.4-acre hunk of ground in the middle of nowhere, it had actually taken up much, much more room in my mind. My mother and sister were horrified when I told them our plan to return. They're superstitious thinkers, though. I'm not.
"I think I'm going to be sick," I announced, and went into the cabin bathroom to heave a little. I came back up, hand clamped over my belly. Todd looked concerned.
"We can anchor here and wait a little? Till the nausea passes?" he said.
I shook my head.
"No, let's keep going. I want to make it there before noon."
He nodded and turned again to the wheel, looking like he was born to sail small watercraft out on the blue yonder.
The ocean below was a jeweled blue, and chopped through with waves and soft undercurrents that made it look like shattered but still intact glass. The sky up overhead was equally elemental - far up and unconcerned with us below. It had been four long months to plan this trip. Todd already had some yachting experience but he first needed to get a proper license. Then we needed to rent and insure little 'Honeybee', get special permits to visit the island, and then get prior approval to make sure we weren't pitching up on the island during seal pupping season.
We had both laughed hard at the conversation we'd had with the environmental protection bureaucrats. A surly woman had informed us, "you have to think of the seals... it's one of their breeding grounds. Of course they're not always there." Without skipping a beat Todd had replied, "Yes, I know that, there weren't any seals last time I was there" and she gave us both a doubtful look. "Sir, it's a highly-protected island, with restricted access. When did you possibly visit it?" Cheery Todd had replied "When I was training to be a seal" and man, we had laughed for days about the look that came over that surly woman's face just at that moment.
But all the paperwork was done now, all the boxes were ticked and the fees paid, and now we were allowed to hunt out this tiny, obscure little patch of island that had once been our home for three long, strange days. And we couldn't have chosen a more perfect day. The sun was warm but not hot, and seagulls wheeled silently in the clear breeze, a pleasant wind that also blew into the sails and stretched them taught, like giant canvas lungs.
Todd was busy and completely engrossed, so I had time to perch on the edge and feel the ocean spray kiss my legs. There was still no sign of it. In fact, we had to hit the GPS coordinates just right if we expected to find this little speck. Todd was shirtless and lost in his work, as he always was when something required his hands. That's one of the things I loved about him - the fact that he was somehow at his most still and calm when he was in motion. He wasn't a man built to sit on the sidelines and watch. He had insisted on learning to sail this boat and, remarkably, he had picked it all up pretty quickly.
I looked down at the ruffled hem of my skirt whipping and rippling in the wind, and smiled. It wasn't happiness I felt, but something like a slow, quiet contentment. It was the knowledge that the thing that was meant to happen was happening.
"Todd ...am I seeing what I think I'm seeing?"
I shaded my eyes with one hand and pointed to the horizon with the other. Hands on his hips and his feet spread wide, he glanced over then grinned at me.
"Of course it is, did you think I wouldn't get us there?" he said and laughed.
"Not for a second," I said and turned my squinting eyes back to the faint snatch of brown in that uniform blue landscape. From this far away the whole place looked meager and bedraggled. The trees seemed to be clinging to the place like they knew they were surrounded on all sides by salt water. The whole place had a ramshackle feel about it.
Todd was expertly hopping around the deck, busying himself with ropes and grabbing hold of the rudder in his strong hands. We were heading right for it. I'm not a very practical woman, I'll be the first to admit it, but it's times like these I can see exactly where Todd was coming from. There was a simple, noble beauty to the whole expedition. Using nothing but wind, water and brainpower to navigate the wild and hone in on the single precise thing you desired. If you could know the pleasure in that humble activity, you'd also know everything you'd ever need to about a man like Todd.
It took us at least twenty minutes more to approach land, and I watched in a dozy, half-meditative state as the speck of brown grew and grew on the horizon and eventually expanded to cover all of it. We were only a few yards out when Todd dropped anchor, lowered the steps into the water and invited me, smiling ear to ear, to step down.
I hobbled a step at a time. He had fought me on it, but I wasn't going to bring my prosthetic with me. Not for this trip. It was silly, I know, and a little stubborn, but it felt right. It was like confronting an old bully or someone from your past I never quite forgave. I wanted to meet the island as I was: one foot less but in every other way, much, much more of a person than the first time I had stepped foot here.
I took the first step, took the second, then plunged to the waist into the cool blue, Todd holding out his hands down below to support me. I lifted up my skirt high and was momentarily glad I had slipped my bikini on underneath everything.
The coarse sand sieved through my toes as I walked up and towards the land, legs in slow motion through the water. The ocean had a way of doing that: of slowing everything down, whether you liked it or not. The landscape before us was still alien to me: after all, I had only woken up on this island long after all the main drama had passed. For me, it had been the neatest scene change. I had blacked out on the ship, and come to, right on these sands.
But not Todd.
I scanned his face to try and read what he was feeling, to find any little sign of recognition. But he was simply engrossed in the task at hand, and held my hand firmly as we walked over to the dry sand.
Once we set foot on land, I lowered my skirt hem and took a full breath. The wind took it up again and played with it, as it did my hair, and all the strange yet almost familiar smells of salt and fish and rock introduced themselves.
"So this is it," I said.
"This is it."
Soon, life would whirl around on its axis again and everything would change forever. Both Todd and I were entering into a new life stage together, and so coming here to say goodbye to this place was a now-or-never deal. Hadn't we both dreamt of this island frequently for the past five years? Hadn't we both laughed and smiled whenever someone ask where we had met, and cast sidelong glances at the other? It was now time to move on. Time to get the 'closure' I had tried in vain to explain to my mother and sister.
"Can I take that for you?" he said and gestured to my backpack.
"It's OK. I want to hold it," I said.
"Did you... did you want to do it now?"
I thought for a moment.
"Yes. Let's do it."
After we had both taken our fill of the views in all directions, we walked in silence deeper into jungly part of the island. In my memories, the trees had seemed so much denser and foreboding than they seemed now. They just looked like aging, non-threatening versions of themselves. It was cooler in the shade as we walked on.
"What about here?" he asked.
I looked over at the big palm tree he was standing beside.
"Yes. That looks good," I said.
I told myself I wouldn't cry. I squeezed my eyes shut and bit down hard to gather myself for a second. I slid off my backpack, unzipped it and reached inside. I took out two things as Todd watched me solemnly.
The first was a little wreath I had made from willow branches and flowers. A ribbon with the letter 'A' painted on it was tied to the top of the wreath. The second object was an envelope, and inside that envelope was a letter that I hadn't ever read.
Hands trembling, I opened the envelope and took it out. Todd reached out to help but I waved him off. This was something I had to do myself. I opened the folded letter, smoothed it out and set it aside. Then I put the wreath at the base of the tree, and cleared my throat. I tried my hardest to hold off on my tears. I wasn't sad. I wanted to be here, and I wanted to do this. But that didn't make it hurt any less.
"Do you need me to go?" Todd said quietly.
I shook my head.
No. He was a part of this too. I had been told that when the others were recovered from the island, Anthony had been rushed onto the rescue boat and immediately asked for a pen and paper. He had begged Charlie to write down everything he said, and to swear that she would find a way to get the letter to me. By the time they had all made it to shore, though, he had already gone.
Charlie took a few months to reach out to me after that, but I had avoided her and sent her off after she tracked me down, then stashed the letter into a bottom drawer, knowing I didn't have the heart to read it. And there it had sat through five years, one job change, several house moves and a marriage.
But I would read it now.
I wiped my eyes on the back of my hand and looked down at the old, yellowing paper, creased heavily down the middle. Todd stood somberly beside the tree and waited.
The handwriting was unfamiliar and done in a cheap black ballpoint, scratched in sloping lines. I wasn't superstitious, like I said, but it was hard not to feel that something was happening now. I would release Anthony, and release myself. They were unspoken words about unfinished business. Whatever it was that he wanted me to know, I knew that by the time I reached the end of the letter, I'd be ready to move on and forget everything.
I began to read.
"Dear Ellie. Life is so much more fragile than I thought. I won't see you again, at least not in this world. Please listen to every word that I write here and try to understand it. I'm in so much pain. I've never meant anything more than I mean this. Ellie, I have done everything wrong. All the things I held onto meant nothing in the end. For me, Ellie, please don't hold onto things like I did. I cannot describe what it feels like to know that you're dying. But I am soothing myself right now with the thought that you can do better than I did. Please be happy, Ellie. It's all that matters. I couldn't, but you can. Please be happy, Ellie."
By the time I reached the final few lines, my voice had broken into a sob and the tears dripped down onto the page. I choked them back, carefully folded the letter up again, and held it in my hands for a moment. I then went to the palm tree, dug a little hole in the soil in front of the wreath and placed the letter inside it, before covering it over again with damp soil.
Todd stared hard at the ground with me, the twitching tendons in his neck telling me how torn up he was, too.
On my knees now, I patted down the cool soil, then stood. Was I relieved? I don't know. But strange, deep feelings washed over me as I realized that Anthony had moved on a long, long time ago, and it was only me who had been the ghost, clinging to the past, unable to let go.
I had taken my lost foot as proof that life was punishing me for what I did to him. But now I could see that Anthony didn't hate me. He hadn't cursed my name with his last breath and he hadn't wished me dead for what I'd done to him. In fact, the letter had contained a medicine that I hadn't known I'd needed until I tasted it: forgiveness.
We stood for a moment more looking at our modest memorial, before Todd took my hand and guided me away. Walking out into the bright sunshine of the beach again felt like a cleansing. Tears still on my face, I somehow found a way to smile.
"I feel better now," I said, and it was an understatement.
Todd's hand went gently to touch my lower belly. It was sweet, protective little gesture that he had started doing ever since I had found out I was pregnant. It was only a small curve, but I knew full well that it's often the smallest things that take up the most space in your life.
Todd kissed my neck and then wandered off, sensing that I'd need to be alone for a while.
I had forgotten one massive detail about this place: how quiet it was during the day. When the wind stopped streaming through the trees for a moment, the island was washed over in a kind of loud silence that felt impossible to ignore.
I sighed and took a walk along the beach, examining here and there for signs of ...anything, really. Was I looking for evidence that we had changed this place as much as it had changed us? Did I want some proof that we had been here at all, and all those memories were not just images that came to me late at night to torment me and keep me from sleeping?
The truth was there was nothing.
And I felt nothing.
Nothing remained of the days we had spent here - how could it? - and the island was just as bare and cruelly indifferent as it was the first time we laid eyes on it.
I wandered over to the gradual slope where the water's edge stroked the shore. Endless, rhythmic waves came again, left again, came again. Hypnotic, and a little senseless. Time just marched on here, to its own slow, elemental rhythm. For this island, five years was nothing. I bent down to look at the sand granules and wondered which of them had even been here five years ago. Wasn't an island just a naked part of the ocean floor, a high piece that peeked up over the water level? In time, I guess even this island would be ground away and float off.
I had had enough. I stood, dusted the sand from my knees and scanned around for Todd. He was far out over to the other end of the beach, wading in some rock pools. I walked off towards him.
"Feel like some mussels?" he laughed when I reached him, then waved a glinting blue shell in my direction.
"Oh my god, don't even joke," I yelled back.
He was like a little kid, bent over and investigating the sea creatures that lived in the pockets of water between the rocks. I hopped onto them as best as I could, being unused to walking without my prosthetic, and went over to sit with him on the rock's edge. He was more robust than I was, that much was true.
"Weird, isn't it? Being back here?" he said.
I nodded.
"Are you sure this is even the right place? It feels so much ...smaller," I said.
"I know what you mean. But this is it. Santa Majella."
"Not much going on here, huh?"
"No, not really."
We both laughed.
It had been so important to me, coming back here. It had felt like the closure I needed. Now that I was here, I had mixed feelings. There was nothing special about the place, only about all the things that had happened here.
Todd was important.
The baby was important.
But this island?
I hadn't expected to, but I started to feel like I was ready to leave, even though we'd only been here a short time. There was nothing left to do. Well, maybe there was one thing...
I reached out and placed my hand on his knee. He put his hand on top of mine and continued staring out at the horizon.
"Todd, let's head over to those trees under there... I want to lie down for a moment before we head out again."
He instantly got to his feet, helped me up and we went over in silence to the shady grove of palm trees behind us. The sand here was powder soft and gave way like a cushion as we sat on it. Todd settled his weight down and invited me to sit between his legs and lean back against his chest. It was the wide blue sea in front and Todd's warm, supportive body behind.
We sat in silence, his fingers playing in my hair and then finding their way to my neck, along with his lips which gave sweet, light kisses on my shoulders. His other hand was softly around my waist.
"Todd, do you think I'm getting fat?"
His kisses turned into playful nips.
"Don't ask me that again or I'll go for your jugular next time," he breathed and I laughed, trying to squirm away.
"You're beautiful," he said. "Your body is perfect to me."
I smiled, grabbed his arm and guided it further up, so it cupped my breast. He seemed reluctant at first, but then teased lazy circles around my hardening nipples. I took hold of his other wrist and guided it down, so that the tips of his fingers just grazed the valley between my legs. I wanted him. Here, and now. And there. I twisted back and offered him my lips, which he dutifully kissed. I never got tired of how good it felt to taste him like this, to feel his tongue caressing mine.
He stopped me though, and pulled back to look at me with concern.
"Ellie, are you sure you want to...?"
I kissed him again, hard, to stop him from talking. I could feel the smile on his lips.
"Well, you're the one parading around all day without your shirt on, it gives a girl ideas you know," I said and playfully bit his lower lip. He took my head in his hands and searched my face.
"Just be serious with me for a second, will you Ellie? We came here for a reason. Is this what you really want? We're not coming back here ever again..."
I sighed.
We had talked about this every evening for the last two weeks straight. I knew what he was asking. He had been patient. But he had also hinted strongly that he was ready to move on, ready to forget about this whole place and everything it came with. And he deserved a real clean start. We deserved a relationship that wasn't a sequel, wasn't a closing scene, wasn't a conclusion to some other tragic story but the beginning to a much better one. A relationship that stood in its own right.
"I want it."
It was all I needed to say. His body closed around over mine again and his lips once more found my collarbones, my neck, my shoulders. I moaned and tilted my head to the side, enjoying the goosebumps, and that amazing way he knew just how to tease my nipples so they tightened and sent hot little sparks all through the rest of my body.
After all this time together, we had our own carnal shorthand, and he knew exactly which buttons to press to have me squirming in no time. My body knew him, knew his touch, and wasted no time playing its part.
I loved the way I could feel his chest rise and fall underneath me as his breath deepened. I loved feeling that familiar hardness in his pants, and knowing what it meant. It felt naughty, being out here like this. The chances of another living soul seeing us were beyond remote, but then again, it was hard not to feel like we were breaking a taboo by being so flagrantly outdoors like this. His hands were moving more urgently over my stomach now, and when he slipped his flat palm over that soft swell, my hips instinctively rose to meet him.
Tired of kissing him over my shoulder, I swiveled round and faced him, on my hands and knees, and kissed him so deeply it sent him backwards a little, throwing his hands back out behind him to support himself. I couldn't stop my hands as they hungrily took in every knot and bulge of his well-developed torso. He smiled and let me have him, looking down at me with amusement plastered on his face. Me being so desperately horny during early pregnancy had been a pleasant surprise for both of us.
I had soon shimmied up the hem of my dress to allow me to straddle him and then I set to work trying to greet every inch of his belly with a kiss.
"Hm, you really do want it," he purred, and leant back even further.
I did. I couldn't explain it, but somehow this was the missing piece, this was what I had come here to do. It was a big middle finger to this hellish island. It was the last word in the whole story, and I was going to have it, right here and now.
I pushed him back so he fell flat onto the sand and reached down to lift my dress high overhead. I tossed this aside and with as much abandon as I could muster, and then did the same to my bra. I couldn't be bothered to take my panties off - I didn't want to miss one second straddling him. Instead, I fell forward for another deep, juicy kiss and let my hips wander over that thick bulge I could now feel at his crotch. Lips still locked into his, my hands went to work unzipping him and releasing that meaty monster of his. I had fucked Todd in every position, in every room in our house. I had fucked him fast and I had fucked him slow. We had had angry sex, and playful sex and cute, sweet sex and serious sex and rushed sex. But no matter how well-worn that path, no matter how many times our bodies had come together like this before ...I always wanted to do it again.
His cock bounced swollen and purple from the slit in his trousers and I left it just like that. It looked hot, seeing just that most delicious part of him poking out through his sensible, practical clothing. I slowly stroked the damp spot on my g-string against the veiny length of him, relishing the thrill of nothing but that flimsy strip of fabric between us. I played here with the friction for a moment but eventually the craving to have my bare skin against his bare skin was too much and I reached down, slipped the lacy material to the side and pressed against him again, kissing him now in two places.
There's something truly extravagant about pregnant sex. It has its own kind of gluttony, filling up a cup that's already full, drinking when you're already intoxicated... It felt like a joyful excess, to keep begging to be filled with his cum when it had already proved so potent.
His hands reached up to pull me down for more kissing, but I was getting impatient. His other hand grabbed a firm handful of my ass and pinned me down, rocking and grinding my hips against that stiff rod. I usually loved letting go and giving Todd reign over me.
I loved trusting that he'd know exactly where to lead my body and how, and I could simply melt into it all. But today, I felt differently. I squeezed my knees tight against his trunk and held my hands at his biceps, playfully holding him down and letting my long hair graze his chest. He seemed sweetly taken aback, but only smiled softly, and he held my gaze and didn't do a thing to protest.
"I feel like we're the only two people left alive here," I whispered as my hips kept up their teasing rhythm over his shaft. His smile was dreamy and distant.
"Like we're just two wild animals, lost, forgotten, and we only have one another to rely on... for everything," I moaned.
He raised an eyebrow at me. I usually wasn't very chatty during sex either.
"And like animals, like savages we need to fuck to keep our species going, to keep one step ahead of danger at all times, to survive..."
He propped his hands behind his head and cocked his head at me.
"Are we ever going to get to all this savagery or are you going to keep telling me stories?" he asked, then yelped when I lurched forward to nip his shoulder with my teeth.
"You'd better watch out, mister, I'm the alpha female here, and you're my chosen mate."
I felt his cock bounce against me.
Still holding one another's gaze, I shifted my weight onto my knees and knelt back, arching my ribcage to display my chest to him fully. I grabbed each breast and squeezed, rolling and teasing the nipples to points, still grinding wet in his lap. I tossed my hair so it fell over my shoulders and down my spine, then let my head fall and imagined that it was all true - that for this moment, we lived in a simple world. A world made only of sand and sea and wind and flesh, a world so close to death it was thrilling, so near to primal, unspeakable longings that there was nothing left to talk about, nothing to think about.
There was only doing.
Only fucking.
When I squeezed his engorged head into my pussy, it took my breath away for a moment. I tried to register how intensely thick and solid he was, how the sensation of being firmly opened by him sent little waves all through my hips. I was only three months pregnant but already I felt myself changing internally, shifting to become deeper and juicier. He groaned and arched his back to bring his hips up and deliver another slow inch into me, and then another.
We liked to draw this part out. Draw it out so slow that every inch of him deserved several breaths, till every part of him was deep and settled inside me, the perfect fit. I swear I could feel him grow bigger even still, crammed completely inside, his body expanding to take the shape of mine.
He tried to put his hands again at my hips but I firmly removed them, placed them back where they were and let him know with a stern look that I would be controlling things from now on. He bit his lower lip as I rose my hips off him, letting that gorgeous cock glide slickly out of me, then at the tip I lowered again, finding that sweet inside place once more, wiggling down to get even the slightest bit deeper. Just having him inside me was enough to drive me wild. Just the weight of that thick, heavy cock spreading me open inside had my pussy streaming wet onto my inner thighs. My body knew well what pleasures were coming, and knowing they were coming was half the pleasure itself.
The beach sand was cool and damp under my knees, and the trees whispered silky above our heads, casting down their mottled shade on our bodies. Far inside me, in some invisible place, something quivered with hunger. Something that only he could sate. I settled my weight over him, hovered parted lips close to his ear and began to slowly fuck him. My rhythm was inspired by the wistful rise and fall of the waves off in the distance.
Cheek to cheek, I pleasured myself on his body and he responded keenly, tilting his hips up to fill me, to move with me as I stroked that delicious spot inside and found myself inching closer and closer. When I began whimpering, his lips went to my cheek and planted dozens of tiny, soothing pecks there, encouraging me, daring me to go harder, go faster.
But I didn't need any encouragement. I raised my body and arched my back again, throwing my full weight down on his cock and swirling my hips over him, then, still not satisfied, lifting and dropping onto him with a juicy slap, a feverish tempo that I didn't want to stop for anything in the world. His clenched jaw told me he was right where I was. Right at that quivering precipice where going any further would mean surrendering to it all... and so we went for more, together.
All at once, his ab muscles crunched hard as he lifted himself up and sent me jumping off his lap.
"Get on your hands and knees," he barked.
It's not like I could have resisted, even if I wanted to. I obeyed and savored how a damper, darker sand was hidden just underneath the white beach sand, there when I clawed at the ground to stable myself for what was to come.
It was beautiful soil. Cool and deep and rich, fed from the ocean underneath it, half water and half earth, some perfect blend of hard and soft, yielding in my fists as I sunk my fingers into it.
I lowered my chest and raised my hips up, collarbones nearly grazing the ground, my hair falling into the sand and shells. This hair he grabbed in a fist and yanked back to bring my head back up again. I let my eyes fall closed as I felt him admiring me...
"I just want to remember this moment," he said when I turned to gaze at him. He had torn off his trousers and was fully naked now.
"I want to remember what you looked like right before I made you come all over my cock."
The kick of pleasure this sent through me was enough to make me want to come there and then. I shut my eyes and offered my ass up to him again.
We were the last two souls alive, who was to tell us what was right and wrong? What we could and couldn't do to one another?
"Do it," I muttered low under my breath, daring him.
He was swift. His hips came banging hard into mine, bringing the full, fat length of his brutal cock into me. I swallowed down a yelp and let the waves pass through me. Again he thrust, his now bare skin slapping against mine, and again he thrust, and again, till I could barely breath. His cock burrowed deeper into me with every pulse, reaching even those furthest parts in my body, those parts that made my whole body tingle and go limp from pleasure.
"Oh fuck," I groaned.
His pace was strong and unrelenting. He knew that when I was this turned on, he could be as rough with me as he liked. Turns out, what he liked was to be pretty rough... He had me firmly by the hair, so that I couldn't resist or squirm away from his fucking even by even one inch. No. I was to receive every part of him, to the full, right in my deepest, most tender parts. When I felt myself starting to come I could barely sputter out a cry. Because he didn't stop, because he kept fucking me straight through, I came long and hard, each thrust drawing out my syrupy pleasure like taffy. I screamed long and loud when I couldn't stand any more, and the bliss exploded right through me. He kept fucking me until he came too. Fucked me hard until I could feel his hips bump and shudder as he dug into me one last time and delivered that wet load of cum inside me, his hands clasping onto my hips for dear life.
"Fuck yes," he growled and I felt his cock twitch and bounce inside me. I moaned and clenched around him, milking him, my cheek now flat on the cool ground as I came down from my own thundering orgasm. We both collapsed down onto one another, covered in sweet and sand, giggling at how disgusting beach sex turned out to actually be.
"That was fucking incredible," he said, chest heaving, whacking the sand off his knees.
I turned to give him a mischievous smile as he settled down beside me. What could be more perfect than laying here nude on a beach, freshly fucked by a man that I loved, filled to the brim with the juiciest, most perfect part of him? What could be more perfect than watching the palm fronds sway and dance over us, first showing the blue of the sky, then hiding it?
"I didn't hurt you, did I?" he asked all at once, and propped up onto his elbows to stroke the wild hair from my face. I shook my head. He kissed me. We were like two exhausted sprinters, celebrating after the finish line, muscles still twitching hard.
"Want to go for a swim?" he said eventually, and got to his haunches.
"Absolutely."
We raced each other down to the shore, naked as the day we were born, but wiser.
And happier.
We kicked up the white foam as we splashed into the waves, laughing madly. We dunked under the water and let the cold wash over our hot bodies. It was the most delightful feeling in all the world. Todd let go of my hand and dunked under again, coming back up with a drop on each little spike of his hair. He shook it off and beamed at me, then fell backwards into the water to float on his back. I joined him, dissolving into the weightlessness of hovering just on the surface, the soft water lapping at my nude breasts, and slipping over the mound of my belly.
My ears went deaf for a moment and I stared up at the blue. The water drops in my eyelashes caught rainbows as I gazed up at the blazing sunshine, blissful. I could still feel him inside me. Could still feel the aftershocks of coming, as he said I would, all over his juicy cock.
I smiled.
After we had washed ourselves in the salty waves and I had twisted my hair back up into a knot on the top of my head, we walked out and back to shore to retrieve our clothes. Todd was strong and noble-bodied. I was a little more inelegant, and I hobbled after him, my little stump well healed over but still gnarled and angry looking. None of that mattered to me now, though. This body of mine was a miracle. All the life that had been poured into it was a miracle; it was big enough to hold me, and beautiful Todd, and the new little one that would be here any day now...
We made our way back to the boat, salt-sticky and feeling wiped out, but happy. We had a few hours to make our way back to shore now, and I would let this island heal up like a wound, let the ocean close up over it in my mind and never think about it again.
I will never know why any of it happened in the first place. I will never know why the storm hit us, and why we had survived. But what I did know was the lesson it had taught me. Never again would I take any day for granted. If I didn't feel like I was happy to leave my life at any moment, content with the choices I had made up to that point should death come looking for me again one day ...then I didn't want to make those choices. I only wanted those things I knew could withstand any accident, any calamity, any swift change in course.
I was older now, a little slower, a little more cautious. My heart had healed, even though the scarred parts were still gnarled and angry looking. I was one foot down, sure, and worse for it. But I had another foot. And hands. And a heart.
And best of all, I was alive.

- THE END -














Manipulator of Elements  (Y/A Urban Fantasy)





Part 1 - EARTH


Chapter 1

The Fromatius Mall stood at the edge of the parking lot and dominated the countryside around it.
No one seemed to know where the mall had come from; it just showed up one day in the field and sat there empty until the stores began to open. After six months, the mall's owners held a "Grand Opening" celebration and employed the local marching band and trade guilds to help in the celebration.
Since the trades anticipated a profitable relationship with the mall, they were glad to help out. The schools were thrilled to have a place where the high-schoolers could work during the evenings and weekends. It would be a much better place for them to hang out in than the local Drive-In or bowling alley.
A few people down at the township hall talked among themselves about how quickly the mall had appeared and were stunned it showed up so fast. Although the building plans were submitted and the proper forms filled out, it seemed strange everything went as smoothly as it did when the mall was constructed.
Some of the local firms were hired to do the finishing work and pour the concrete for the sidewalks around the structure, but no one could recall ever seeing the construction firms who were hired to build the mall in town before. And before any of the trade guilds could complain about a lack of their involvement, it was there. As soon as it was constructed, the other trades were contracted and given lucrative contracts to maintain it.
Granted, some of the stores in place seemed a little odd for a suburban shopping mall, but there were enough major retailers in it to defer any bad thoughts from the local suburban moms. Besides, it was spring and people were getting ready for the summer. The big auto plant in the nearby town of Scipio was planning to shut down for two weeks of inventory. This would allow them the chance to make certain they had everything they needed for next year's models and allow the employees to take vacations. Some employees had additional time in based on years of service and could take as much as two more weeks of vacation. Therefore, if your father or mother were one of the lucky ones to have started working there right after the Korean War, you could spend an entire month at some pleasure dome in Florida.
Lilly Arrad wasn't one of the lucky ones. Her father ran an insurance company in Fromatius out of their house. Her mother stayed home and took care of her and her older sister when they were coming of age, but now she was looking into a job at the mall. Lilly didn't want a job at the mall when it opened. She didn't care for most of the kids she was stuck around all day at her high school and found a job with a catering company. However, most of the jobs her company pulled were at the mall for the various out of town dignitaries who came in to see how their store branches looked and what the sales represented. So, she might as well work at the mall. Perhaps next week's job would take her somewhere else.
She sat on the hood of her Pinto and looked at the mall again. These things sprang up everywhere. Was the entire country turning into one big shopping mall? The 70's surely brought with it a lot of novelties. Right now, she could look forward to attending college in the fall at Cincinnati. She had her future mapped out: international studies, find a diplomat, get married and spend the rest of her life throwing parties for foreign dignitaries.
She looked down and sighed.
Her shoes were still in the mall. She'd forgotten them and walked barefoot all the way to the car. She really needed to get beyond that, it was so childish. Now she would have to walk back in that place and get them.
Maybe she wouldn't. She could drive home barefoot and find her spare sandals in the bedroom closet. She had the dance class tonight her sister taught.
Her sister, Rachel, had learned belly dancing in college and used it to supplement her spending money. Although Rachel married last month and left the house, it still felt as if she was around. With her older sister moved out, Lilly started to feel lonely. She still had a few good friends from the neighborhood, but everyone was headed to different places for college in the fall.
She wanted to stay close enough to come home on the weekend, but far enough to enjoy the life on campus and socialize with the right kind of people. She would be forced to stay in a dorm the first few years, but afterwards, she would find a better place to live. Somehow, the sorority life didn't appeal to her, and Lilly doubted she would pledge one. She could see herself sharing an apartment after a year or two. Her friend Cindy started college a year early and wrote her letters about how crazy the college dorm life was in Indiana. It was one of her reasons for attending a school in Cincinnati.
The hood of her Pinto started to burn into her butt, so Lilly decided to hop off it and go home. It was early enough in the year to walk barefoot across a parking lot, but she had no desire to go back and retrieve the shoes. They were an older pair and she had more at home. She'd look for them tomorrow. The jeans, on the other hand, were precious. She'd spent the weekend fading them to just the right hue in her mother's washing machine. They matched the light sweater she wore.
Lilly was small and, at five foot in height, didn't expect to get much taller. She wasn't a big eater and kept her weight at a comfortable hundred pounds. She even dieted down to ninety at one point, but didn't like the way it made her feel. She stayed away from the pot smokers and druggies at her school, although she did enjoy her time on the literary magazine and French Club.
Lilly decided to forget the shoes and turned to open her car door when she saw something.
It was the new guy who transferred into school this year. He was sitting on the edge of the fountain at the entrance. He was staring at it and moving his hand over the water in the pool. The fountain was huge and filled up with coins every day from well-wishers who wanted to bring good luck by tossing three coins in it. But he wasn't dropping coins in the fountain; he was busy with his eyes fixed on the pattern his hand traced through the air.
Now she was curious.
She finally remembered his name. It was Dion Bacchus. She remembered it because he was in her homeroom. One of the strange things she noticed one day was how many of her close friends had similar names to her last name. The school was huge. Her senior class had five hundred in its enrollment. Not only did the local auto industry contribute to its size, but the regional air force base added to it as well. It wasn't unusual for her to call a friend's house and have a "Colonel Adams" answer the phone.
Dion started school that year as a transfer student from some place in California that year, but mostly kept to himself. She had said little more than "hello" to him since he started. It was strange to see someone start school in their senior year and he didn't seem to interact with anyone. Dion's locker was two sections down from her, but Lilly seldom saw him speak to anyone. He was in her biology class as well, but she couldn't ever recall him asking a single question.
This was too bad for Dion because plenty of the girls at school were obsessed with him.
He stood almost six foot tall, had dark features and black eyes with hair that cascaded down his back to a school-acceptable length. He wore the standard jeans and t-shirt apparel, which dominated in the school, but had an intense look on his face and a tight set of chest muscles that showed through his shirt.
A few girls approached him one day and, although he was polite, he didn't speak very long with any of them. A few of the local tough kids who were into drugs and hard rock tried to corner him in the hall one day. He took the hand of one and gently pulled it off him. The kid who placed it there walked away swearing under his breath with a look of pain in his eyes. Lilly remembered the tough one later coming to school with his hand in a cast.
Rumors abounded about Dion's background.
He lived with his aunt and uncle in one of the nicer houses on a good street, but people seldom saw him leave the house. The rumor most people believed was that his real parents died in some kind of tragic accident and his relatives were the only ones who could take him in. Some said his family were foreign spies, others said they were extraterrestrials who were under the protection of the air base. Among other things, the base was rumored to hold the bodies of aliens who'd crashed on Earth in a flying saucer. Some people believed Dion's family were all black magicians who sacrificed goats in the back yard, although no one had ever seen it take place. The house where he dwelled was quiet and never gave the neighbors any reason to be concerned about what happened over there.
There were plenty of other strange things that happened in the neighborhood over the past few years, such as the professor of chemistry who was busted for making illegal pharmaceutics in his basement. The man later turned out to be deeply in debt to mobsters.
"I wondered why he always was on the pay phone at the grocery store," Lilly's mother had said to her when the arrest hit the news.
Since the fountain stood between her and the entrance to the mall, Dion would be directly in her path if Lilly wanted to go back in it for her shoes. This would allow her to see what he was up to by the fountain and retrieve her shoes at the same time. You weren't supposed to enter the mall if you didn't have shoes on, but she didn't worry about it, as Lilly knew some of the mall security guards. They were constantly flirting with her.
She checked to make sure her car was locked before she picked up her leather purse and headed back into the mall.
The day was bright and sunny with birds circling in the sky. She looked up and realized the birds were vultures. It was an unnerving sight; what interest would vultures have in a mall? She decided they were riding the air currents drifting up from the ground. People believed vultures circled in the air to signal each other when there was something dead on the ground. But Lilly learned years ago it had to do with the way they used the updraft from warm air on the ground to glide. There might be places on the roof where the vultures nested. They weren't all that far from Hinckley, Ohio where they returned every year to mate and nest. Perhaps the vultures were thinking about moving their nesting grounds to the mall?
The mall was dominated by a huge clock, which sat in the middle and towered over everything below it. Although the mall was an indoor shopping center, someone had decided it needed a clock tower rising up from the center of the complex so everyone in the parking lot could see what time it was. Access to the clock tower was almost impossible to find, or so she'd been told by a few friends whose parents worked in the mall. Even the plans approved by the local building committee were vague on this part of the mall construction.
Lilly walked past the fountain where Dion sat on the ledge. Something compelled her to stop and watch what he did with his hand. She froze when she saw a small column of water rise into the air close to his hand and fall. She stood there in amazement as he brought an entire wave of water up to his level and watched as it fell down into the pool. No one else was around the fountain at this time of the day.
As she stood there, Dion slowly turned around and aimed his piercing eyes into her own. Lilly felt as if her entire soul was bared to him. It seemed Dion could see into her very mind and knew everything about her. But she wasn't scared. She didn't feel any sort of animosity from Dion... just curiosity.
As he looked at her, two more columns of water rose into the air and slowly fell back down into the fountain. They were followed by a wave, which rose up to his height and sent a shower of coins into the air. The coins splashed back into the water as he continued to watch her. Dion kept one hand in the air over the fountain, but never once did the water come near him. She could see no dampness or watermarks on his clothes.
"How did you do that?" she asked him.
"Do what?" Dion said, withdrew his hand to one side of his body and rested it on the ledge of the fountain.
"The water... you had it moving and forming shapes in the air. I've never seen anyone do that. Are you some kind of magician?"
Dion smiled back at her. "You mean an illusionist, like Houdini or Copperfield? No, not like that. Not at all."
He moved his hand over the water and a mist rose over it. As Lilly froze in place, she saw the mist form into a cloud over the fountain. The clouds turned into fantastic shapes. One became the figure of a dancer before it broke apart in the air. Another one turned from a boat into a dragon before a breeze blew it apart.
Dion lowered his hand and the mist over the fountain dissolved.
"Can I sit by you?" Lilly asked him. She trembled. This was the sort of thing that never happened. At least not to people like her.
"Of course, you can sit right here." He indicated the space to his right.
Lilly's feet took her to the fountain and her body sat itself down next to the strange man. Now that she was close, Lilly could see how handsome he was. She always felt Dion was cute, but this close she could sense the heat radiating from him and really felt his presence. Her heartbeat increased and she tried to avoid showing the sweat forming on her brow.
"Can I see your lighter?" he asked her.
How did Dion know she had a lighter in her purse? People didn't smoke as they had in her parents' day. Then it hit her: if he knew she had a lighter in her purse, he might know what else she had in it. With shaking hands, she opened the clasp on her leather purse and took out the cigarette lighter.
Her hand still trembling, Lilly handed it to Dion and placed her purse down. She hadn't felt so vulnerable since an old boyfriend told her over the phone one night his parents had installed a hot tub in their backyard and they would be gone for the weekend.
Dion flicked the flint on the lighter and a flame popped out of one end. He held it up for a few seconds and watched the flame burn.
"I don't think they want you to smoke out here," she told him.
"Who said anything about smoking," he said and held out the burning lighter in front of her.
Lilly watched as the flame grew to a height of what must've been about six inches. She didn't believe it was possible for this to happen. The lighter couldn't have that much fuel in it. The flames changed shapes, turned blue and became a human form. As her eyes grew wide, she watched the shape detach from the ground and run circles on the concrete. She saw the little figure made from fire run a figure eight in front of them for a few seconds. Then it stopped and seemed to look up at them. Two seconds later, it was gone in a puff of smoke.
"They just don't last very long," he explained as Dion returned the lighter back to her.
In front of the fountain was a small strip of grass that encircled it. At one time, the landscapers intended to plant flowers there, but the mall management decided against it. They reasoned it would deter people from enjoying the fountain and the flowers would be trampled. They left the strip where a few feet of grass grew and needed to be trimmed every year.
Dion reached down and picked up some dirt. It was moist from the recent rains and he kneaded it into the shape of a heart. He placed the dirt heart down on the ledge of the fountain between them and washed his hands in the fountain. The heart turned red and then formed into a crystalline pattern. Seconds later, it became a brilliant and shiny piece of onyx.
"Wow. Can I pick it up?"
"Go ahead."
Lilly reached down and picked up the onyx heart. It was solid when her fingers made contact, but by the time it was up to the level of her face, the onyx was dirt again. As she looked at it, the glossy black became brown and crumbled in her hands.
"Doesn't last very long either," he told her. "I'm working on it."
"How does this happen?" she asked.
"What do you mean?" He looked at her with an intensity she'd seldom seen before.
"I mean, you have to have some tricks to make those things appear to move, don't you? My sister told me about a man at a bar who pulled all kinds of coins out of her nose and ears. She told me he showed her how he did it later."
"Oh, that," he laughed. "You mean this sort of trick?" Dion held out a quarter and waved his hand in front of her. "Give me your hand," he commanded.
Lilly held hers out and felt his strong fingers hold it from the other side.
He took the hand with the quarter in it and dropped two quarters into her palm. She looked up at him, her lip-gloss shining in the sunlight. Lilly was glad she hadn't worked the green eye shadow today.
"This is what I did," he explained to her. Dion proceeded to show Lilly the method by which he'd hidden the first quarter behind the second and only held up one to her face. When he opened his hand, two had fallen into her palm because she'd been deceived and only saw one.
"It appears so simple," Lilly told him. "But I still can't figure out how you made the water rise, or the fire dance."
"Different kinds of talent," he told her. "One is based on deception; the other comes from the elements. One fools you; the other is from destiny. It just so happens my destiny was to shape the genius of the elementals."
"Are you saying it's something you're born with?"
"We all have our talents. Some of us have to work a lot harder at them than others. At least that is what my dad told me. My aunt can't make it happen, but my uncle can. What you see here..." he waved a hand over the fountain and another column of water rose up to it. He shook his hand and the column fell back, "...is talent, but not much. I was supposed to learn the rest of it from my father, but he's gone."
"I'm so sorry to hear that," Lilly said. She felt her heart race. If he reached out for her now, Lilly didn't know what she'd do. Damn the talk her mother gave her last month and the one she'd had with her former boyfriend. Her eyes were starting to cloud over.
"They are both alive," he told her. "I know everyone at school think they're dead. But they're very much alive."
"Then why do you stay with your aunt and uncle?"
"Protection," he explained. "The same person who kidnapped them wants me as well. My aunt and uncle can stand up to that person. Alone, I can't. I'm not strong enough... yet. But when I am, I'll get them back. But not until I've reached my full strength."
Lilly looked up at Dion again. She wanted to help him, but what was she getting herself into today? She didn't know this guy. In a few months, she'd be off to college and a whole new life awaited her. Enough with the petty smart kids and the cheerleaders. The hell with the officer's wives and the daughters whose names were kept out of the paper.
She remembered a girl carried to the car, high as a kite, by her boyfriend. The same girl was featured in the local community paper when she received a scholarship from an air force service organization. Good and fine, she could snort some real quality drugs in college before she returned to be married off to some corpsman.
And how much of what Dion told her had truth to it? Sure, it had seemed strange and wondrous to see fire run in circles on the floor, but if he knew the secrets of illusions, couldn't Dion fool her with his assumed powers? How much was a trick and how much was what she wanted to believe? What kind of game was he playing? Was she in the process of being set up for something?
"You don't understand," Dion told her. "Most people can't. There aren't too many of us around who have this ability. My dad once said that most people can do some of it, but people in our family who can manipulate the elementals are very rare. I was taught not to use it. But I'm on the verge of something and I have to figure out what the best way is to get it.
"And this has taken you here?" she asked. "Can't your aunt and uncle help you?"
"They could, but I don't want to put them into harm's way. My uncle has some of my ability, but not much. He has more than most people and this might attract the wrong sort of attention to him. All kinds of people would like to take what we can do and use it for bad things. It's happened in the past, which is why we don't talk about it."
"So why are you telling me this?"
A few moments passed in silence.
"I need help... and I like you, Lilly. You have a good head and a better heart. I don't see that very often."
"This is crazy," she said and started to rise up from the ledge around the fountain. "All you want to do is get into my pants. Sorry, Dion, I am no woman's fool and everything you just did can be explained."
Lilly felt anger overtake her senses.
She was angrier than when her last boyfriend had tried to do some things she objected to in the back seat of his parent's Ford at the local drive-in movie theater. She had to explain the bite mark on her neck to her mother, who seemed to find it funny. At least she didn't have to explain anything else. Mark this one down as another guy who'd stolen his dad's copy of The Sensuous Man.
"Perhaps you need a better demonstration," he said to her. "This will tire me out, but I think you will find it instructive."
Before she demanded Dion tell her what he was talking about, he leaned back away from the water and closed his eyes. He began to concentrate intensely and breathed deeply.
Lilly cocked her head and looked at him again. If this was his attempt to impress her, it was not going to succeed. She turned and started to walk back to her car.
The wind stopped her.
It began as a steady breeze, which slowly reached its zenith as she turned and looked in the direction it came. The breeze began to pick up and emerged from the entrance to the mall. Both doors of the main entrance were blown open by a sudden rush of air from the inside of the building. It began to howl in her direction, threatening to blow her over. Lilly was certain, if anyone had been at the entrance, it would have blown them into the parking lot. Lilly felt her curly hair sent into a halo behind her as the wind picked up in intensity. It felt as if she was inside a tornado.
She turned and looked in the direction of Dion.
The young man continued to sit on the ledge in a state of concentrative meditation. His hands were on top of his knees with the palms facing up in the air. His hair also blew back from him, away from the force of the wind inside the mall. Lilly wanted him to make it stop; she was ready to tell him to bring this thing to an end because she believed him.
She heard a whirling sound and something was spinning out of the doors in her direction. Stunned, Lilly watched her shoes fly out of the mall at her. They were the Earth Shoes she'd bought last year and still liked to wear, no matter how out of style they'd fallen in the past few months. The shoes spun around each other in a rapid circle, then struck not ten feet in front of her. When they hit the ground, the shoes slid in her direction and stopped moving the moment they bumped into her feet.
The howling wind died down and turned into a breeze. With the force of the wind gone, the mall doors slowly closed shut. Soon the breeze was gone and Lilly stood there facing her shoes and the dust blown around her from the wind.
She turned to look at Dion.
He was bent over the ledge of the waterfall with an exhausted look on his face. Dion gagged and sat back up. Lilly, ignoring her shoes ran over to him and helped him sit back up.
"Are you okay? You made the wind blow like that? That's insane!"
"I'm all right," he told her, his eyes still having trouble focusing. "Just don't ask me to do it again."
"I didn't."
"Not by words, but by your actions. I could tell I would have to prove this to you. It's worn me out and I can't do it again today. Not until I have the power given to me by the Grandmaster of the Air. Don't forget your shoes; I went to a lot of trouble to retrieve them for you."
Lilly ran over to her Earth Shoes and strapped them on her feet. How had he known where to find them? Of course, he'd realized barefoot senior girls didn't wander around a mall and deduced she'd left her shoes inside. But how did he know where to locate them?
"How did you find them?" Lilly asked as she walked back over to Dion. At least the rough concrete and asphalt no longer hurt her feet.
"They called to you," he explained. "You wear something long enough, it becomes part of you. It's why I don't change styles very often. I've had jackets plead with me for help."
Lilly felt her pulse race again. She might be able to discount what he'd done with the lighter and dirt as a parlor trick, but a windstorm? No, there was no way he could've blown her shoes out of the mall unless he knew of some technology far in advance of anything in the world.
She sat down next to him. "Didn't you say you needed my help? How?"
"I have to go into the mall today," he told her. "There are four Grandmasters of the Elements at any given time. All four of them are inside that mall for reasons I don't understand. I can't fully use my abilities unless they confirm them on me. I can only go inside when the mall is open and I can't do it alone. I need someone I can trust who will watch my back and protect me from what is inside that mall."
"But it's just a shopping mall," Lilly blurted out. "What in the world could be inside it that would hold you back?"
It's not just an ordinary shopping mall," he told her. "It looks that way from the outside. My parents knew one of them was about to spring up somewhere in the United States. But just as they located this one, someone kidnapped them. I need full use of my powers or they won't be rescued."
Lilly turned around and starred at the entrance. She'd just been inside the mall. "Looks perfectly normal to me," she said. "What makes this one so different?"
"It's not what is on the outside that makes it different," he told her, "it's what's on the inside."
He stood up and walked over to the entrance and made sure he never ventured too close. Dion walked around the front, but kept a respectable distance away from the doors. Lilly noticed he stayed away from the area under the roof of the porch. It appeared he sensed something he didn't like which came from its direction.
"You might think it's just a mall," he said to her, "and for all practical purposes it is one. Most people who come here don't think about how it showed up so suddenly. My aunt and uncle have watched over this place for years. It used to be a barren field, you know. Some farmer had it in his family for generations. Nothing of value would grow here. Before the settlers came, the Indians avoided this patch of land; they knew something wasn't right with it. But it was right for one thing, and the mall hides it nicely."
"What does it hide?" Lilly asked him. By now, she was ready to believe anything. Anyone who could make a whirlwind bring her shoes out the door had to be plugged into something powerful.
"It doesn't hide a thing," he continued. "It stands watch over the Abyss. Note what is over the top of the mall on the porch."
Lilly looked up and saw the fiberglass sphinx over the entrance. Everyone laughed at it the day the mall opened. They poured in to look at all the shops on display. She'd noticed the sphinx symbol all over the mall and assumed it tied in with some kind of Egyptian motif. Never did it occur to her the symbol might have something to do with the mall itself.
"The sphinx stands watch and guards the gate," Dion explained. "This mall is a gate of sorts, and the builder of it wants to keep the gate hidden from view. What better place to hide something than in plain sight?"
"Are you telling me this place is dangerous?"
"Not unless it knows you are wise to it. Even then, it won't bother you if you don't bother it. I know all about its secrets and so it would rather I stay out. But, if I am to rescue my parents, I need to go inside and find the elemental grandmasters. The problem is that the mall closes at nine promptly and it's almost two in the afternoon."
"It's spring break," Lilly explained. "We can always come back tomorrow." Whatever he wanted to do in there, she wanted to be part of it.
"Not enough time," he said. "It will take me long enough to find each one of them. I can't do what I have to do in one day. Why don't you come in there with me and see if we can find the first of them?"

Chapter 2

I didn't take long for Lilly to give her answer.
They walked into the mall, beautiful music playing on the PA system and waited for the electric doors to open. This time a few shoppers trotted out.
It was a Monday and it meant fewer shoppers than usual. Plus, most of the buying would take place on the weekend, when there were sales. The luncheon Lilly had helped to cater was tied in with a big sales promotion several of the anchor stores were involved with as part of a national program. The TV stations were all set to run the ads through the week. When she heard about it, Lilly was pleased, as she was sick of all the Bicentennial crap they ran all week long.
They walked into the mall and headed up the main corridor to the inside. On either side of them were small restaurants and shops. Lilly could see the waterbeds place, but never went inside, as it seemed sleazy for a mall store. Too much incense and peppermint for her taste. They continued on their way and walked past a novelty store, which sold plenty of lava lights and posters. It was another day in the mall to most of the people who strolled around it. Hard to believe they were at the gates of hell, according to Dion.
"Looking for something special?" a tall man with a military haircut said to them.
They stopped the moment they saw the security guard uniform. He was a tall man with a muscular build, but the look of a predator was in his eyes. Lilly knew who he was: Officer Karanzen, who was in charge of mall security. Look the wrong way at him and you'd be hauled down to a holding cell until your parents arrived.
Officer Karanzen had a tough-as-nails attitude with a reputation to match it. He was known to personally body tackle shoplifters and kept the mall free from thieves and scam artists. He also had no love for freaky kids and could spot a bottle of cheap wine hidden inside a purse or jacket at fifty yards. More than a few of Lilly's friends were forced to have their parents scrub their arrest records to get into the right college because of this man. He was feared and hated by half of her high school class. The other half had quit going to the mall soon after it opened.
"Just here for the mall shopping, Officer," Lilly said to him, doing her best sad little girl smile. She hoped it would work.
"You, I know," the security officer said to her. "Him, I don't know." He stared intently at Dion, examined his eyes and seemed to recognize something.
"Don't give me any trouble," he said to Dion. "I'm here to make sure this place stays open. We don't want to close like that mall on the other side of town."
The Shell Mall due north of where they stood had opened ten years ago, one of the first in the area. But it was on hard times and all the stores were about to close. Some said it was just bad luck and the new mall took away all of the business.
Officer Karanzen was an old style security guard who didn't appreciate smart mouthed kids in his mall. He considered it his mall because it was where he worked and lived. No one ever saw him leave the mall. Ever. He seemed to be there before anyone else in the morning and was always the last person to leave in the evening. If there was a break-in or a problem with the utilities, he was the first one on the scene. No one knew where he lived because his personnel files were accessible only to the owners of the mall. It was said he could be seen walking around at night checking out abandoned cars and people who were parked in the lot too long after closing. No one ever saw him eating or taking a bathroom break. He came with the mall and was there when the construction crews were pouring concrete.
No one in their right mind crossed the officer or they would vanish into his holding cell until the cops, or parents, came to pick them up. There were a few kids from the high school Lilly knew who tried to mess with him. They never said what happened from the time they were placed in confinement until picked up, but none of them ever wanted to return to the mall.
"He just stared at me while I was in there," one former bad kid had said to Lilly. "He sat in front of the cell and grinned. He never said a word. I've never been so terrified in all my life." The kid went on to become the president of the school bible club.
One of the rumors, which circulated around the high-schoolers, had Officer Karanzen as a former marine sergeant in Korea who was dismissed for injuring too many recruits. Others said no, he was an ex-green beret from Vietnam who enjoyed his deep cover missions too much and the military had to get rid of him. The current favorite theory about Karanzen was that he was an experiment in progress. A group of scientists decided to create the perfect sentry and he was the prototype.
Lilly didn't believe him to be evil, as most of the kids who came under his glance. She thought he truly believed that what he did protected the mall. He seemed to have a strange sense of ownership when it came to it. She'd never run afoul of him, but noticed the officer in his daily rounds checking every little imperfection and finding the slightest thing out of commission. She'd watched him inform a store that one of their exterior light bulbs was out three seconds after it popped. She observed him take a missing toddler to his mother before the woman was aware the child was gone. He seemed to have a strange way of knowing when something was just "not right" in the mall.
As they stood there, Officer Karanzen's security guards emerged and slowly formed a semi-circle around him.
He had eleven security guards working for him at the mall. All of them were young men. The oldest was only thirty years old. He'd picked them up in the first week the mall opened. Although some of them were from the area, no one recalled seeing any of the guards outside the mall once it opened. They were all rumored to live in a group house somewhere near Miamisburg. Each wore the grey pants and blue shirt with a cap. It was on the cap where the name of the security company who employed all of them was listed: Bread and Salt Services, or "BS" as everyone she knew called it. For some reason the symbol of the company was a black diamond. It was sewn into the patches on the guards' uniforms.
Lilly stood there and wondered when the last time was when she'd seen all of the guards together. Usually no more than three or four were on duty at any given time, including the afterhours shift. But today, they were all here at once. They stood at attention, hands to each side and backs straight. For some reason, Karanzen wanted to make a show of force, which was a little bit strange since the only two people he faced was Dion and Lilly.
"Have you met my boys?" Karanzen asked them. "No, I don't think you've ever had a chance to meet them all. I had them in today for a training exercise. You never know when walking dead zombies might take over a mall, heh, heh. You haven't seen any zombies around here have you?"
"Only the ones I'm looking at right now," Dion responded. He folded his arms over his chest and continued to stare at Karanzen and his men.
"Let me introduce them to you," the older man said to them. "This is Bella; we call him 'Toadie', because he's always looking for things under rocks. After him is Gamer, he has a little bit of trouble remembering things, but we're working on that aren't we?"
The second young man smiled. "I try, boss."
"That's a good boy. Next we have Amon."
A black guard with a very wolfish appearance stepped forward and grinned.
"And we have our great hunter, Bayer; you bagged a deer last week, didn't you?"
"Yes, sah," another young man said as he made a small bow. "With a bow too."
"I thought hunting was over," Dion noted.
"Not for me," Bayer grinned.
"I'm sure he's hunting some place where it's legal," Karanzen said. "I also want to introduce Zeppy; he came to us from New Mexico, by way of the army."
A man who had American Indian features nodded at them.
"And after him we have Salle," Karanzen continued his introductions. "Why don't you tell them about your hobby?"
"I like to put on armor," the man said to them, "and beat my friends up with a wooden sword on the weekends. It's cool because they wear armor too."
"And continuing down the line," the officer said. "Is Izzy." Another nod. "He may look a little crazy, but it takes a lot to make him mad, right?" The one called Izzy nodded again.
"After him we have Lab," Officer Karanzen went down the line. "He's originally from Old Mexico, but came up this way after a tour in Vietnam." A man with Latin features smiled at them.
"And here's Bert," Karanzen announced as he patted another man on the shoulder. "He wants to be a fireman someday, but he's with us for now. Lord, son, do something about your breath and chew gum." The new guard dropped his eyes.
The next guard he introduced was a huge man, with arms the size of tree trunks. His neck matched and the square face peered out at the world. "This is Forest, but we like to call him 'Woody'."
The man never cracked a smile and continued to stare at them with two piercing grey eyes.
"And our latest recruit is 'Furry' here," Karanzen showed off the last guard. "You can guess why he has that nickname." He was young, barely out of his teens and covered with a course rug of snow-white blond hair.
"I wanted you to meet them all," Officer Karanzen said to them. "Because I think we'll need to keep a watch on you two. Especially you, Dion. I have this feeling you might be in line to cause me some trouble. I don't like trouble. I like a safe and secure mall, son. I like places where people can shop, meet other people, and do their business in safety. That is what I like. So tell me, are we on the same page, Dion?"
"Absolutely, Officer," Dion smiled. "I see you want to guard your little part of the abyss in absolute security. I have no intention of messing with it."
Karanzen stared at Dion and mulled over his response. It wasn't exactly what he wanted to hear, but it would do for right now.
"I'm glad we're in agreement, Dion. We'll be moving along. Just remember, if you need anything, we're always here to help."
"I'll keep that in mind."
Officer Karanzen turned and marched back down the corridor, past the door to a restaurant and to the entrance of the main mall. They watched him leave. As he walked away, his security guards formed a column and followed behind him. Not once did they turn and look back at Dion or Lilly.
"What did you do to get his attention?" Lilly asked Dion.
"Show up," Dion said. "He is the guardian of this place and sensed why I'm here. He doesn't like anything messing with his authority and I represent an unknown quantity. He doesn't like unknown quantities."
"Do you ever wonder about where malls came from?" Dion asked her as they walked down the corridor.
"Not really. I assumed they were always there. Now that I think about it, they haven't always been around. I remember when that one opened up on the other side of the city years ago. I was just a kid and there was some big movie premiere at it. My parents didn't want to go see the movie, I think it had something to do with missionaries and they didn't like the subject, but it was a big deal at the time. I remember watching the big lights out front."
"Shopping malls are from Austria," Dion told her. "Believe it or not, someone wanted to duplicate the Vienna he remembered from the days before World War II. They'd been around for a long time, arcades run back over a hundred years ago. But the basic two-floor design you see everywhere came from Vienna. He wanted to transport what he remembered to the United States."
"He sure was successful," Lilly said. "I see them all over the place."
"You do wonder how long it can all last," Dion continued. "These places have a cycle. Everything has a cycle of birth, death and rebirth. As far as I can tell, this is the only mall in the world were you will find all three."
"You will find stores in this mall that don't exist anywhere else," he continued, "because this is no ordinary mall. It has five sections, four of which we can access. Notice this directory and map, for instance." He pointed to it where it was situated at the inner entrance to the mall. It displayed all four divisions and a directory of the stores was below it.
"Notice that the center section of the mall is left blank. Do you wonder why that is? Did you ever stop to wonder why the center of the mall, where the big clock tower sits, is blank on this map?"
Lilly went up to the directory and stood on her toes to get a better look at it. "Now that you mention it," she said. "It doesn't have anything listed for the middle. Funny, I never thought about it before."
"It's because the mall owners don't want you to think about it. I was once told the best way to hide something is to put it in out in the open. That's exactly what they've done. The mall owners have hidden something in the middle of the mall no one would ever expect. No one thinks about looking for the Holy Grail in a parking lot, they're too busy trying to find The Chapel Perilous in a dark wood. You can hide a treasure in a candy machine and no one will be the wiser because no one will believe you. They're too busy trying to locate it on a map they bought off a street vendor."
"Hey! I didn't expect to see you here today," a voice said behind them.

Chapter 3

Both Dion and Lilly turned to see who'd spoken to them.
It was Emily, Lilly's close friend from across the neighborhood. At one point, the two of them were so close people thought they might be sisters. Nothing could have been further from the truth.
Emily and Lilly were the same height, although the resemblance ended there. Lilly was small and dark, while Emily had a certain amount of bounce on her body. Both had known each other since kindergarten and attended the same schools for years. Because of their names, Lilly Arrad found herself sitting at the assigned seat next to Emily Aaron all through the four years of high school. Likewise, both girls were first in line for whatever needed to be done. It wasn't always that way, because sometimes the teachers would begin from the back row. The worst were students whose names began with "M" who always found themselves in the middle of the list. At some future date, a social psychologist would look into performance based on first letter of the name and discover those whose names began with the middle letters of the alphabet would end up in the middle of the grade score as well.
Emily tended to be the less vocal of the pair, although both of them had similar temperaments. Their families weren't that close. Living three blocks away in their suburban neighborhood was the equivalent of living in different sides of the country, because seldom did families emerge from their houses to talk. Emily's father would finish the workday glued to the television set and she with him. Emily had no other family members and seldom saw her mother as she'd divorced from her chemist husband when Emily was five. The courts had awarded her visitation rights, but her mother seldom exercised them. It was rare for her to spend more than a few hours at a time with her mother who lived a carefree life as an artist in Dark Springs, a small liberal town outside a liberal college of the same name.
Lilly would spend the summers travelling with her parents, who'd managed to save and organize their money to the best way possible. It was long before the days of fast cash and loose change, but her father knew how to play the stock market and had a good sense for what would move when the time was right. Lilly's house had every modern contraption, whereas Emily was forced to watch TV on an old black and white model until her last year of high school. Lilly had a state of the art TV antenna, which could rotate by a control on top of the set for better reception.
It happened that both girls discovered they had the same tastes in music, movies and boys. They would double date all through high school and share information on how to tame the beast that seemed to lurk inside every high school boy. When Emily visited her mother, she would slip inside her mom's nightstand library and report the findings to Lilly.
They went to their first concert together, Rod Stewart, and planned to follow him around on tour one summer until both of their parents found out their plans and nipped it in the bud early. When they both received their drivers' licenses, they would take the family cars and travel down to Scipio, the big industrial town near them, and shop at the cool record stores. They'd already used a fake ID to get into a few bars to see some bands, which their parents didn't know about.
One of their favorite things to do was visit the mall and act as if they were British. After a careful study of all things British, they found it possible to mimic British accents and mannerisms to the point where they could fake their way through any store. At the time, it was rare for anyone from England to appear in the Midwest, so they could get away with it. Had they tried this in a coastal city with a large expatriate British population, it might not have worked so well.
They'd already fooled one store clerk just by their presence in the store. The man had innocently assumed they were British when he heard them talk in their fake accents. He walked up and asked them what part of England they were from that day. Amazed, they played along and had the poor store clerk convinced that they were recent immigrants. Whenever they were in the mall, they would make a beeline for his store and pull the same routine. They were almost exposed one day when a friend of Lilly's mother saw them near the store. They aborted their plans and avoided the place until they were certain she'd left.
Both of them had plans for college out after graduation. With Lilly, it was international studies at Cincinnati; with Emily it would be theater at the state college in Columbus. The future looked bright for them as college was very affordable that year and the overseas competition minimal for their programs. Both took the college preparatory tests and did very well.
Prom season was on the horizon. Neither one wanted to be seen with just anyone. They hoped to be approached by another senior of equal social status. The prom was supposed to be held at some swanky hotel in Scipio, but they would let their dates do the planning. There was still plenty of time for them to look forward to the most important evening of high school.
"I had to work a lunch," Lilly said to her friend. "What are you doing over here? We talked last night and I thought you were meeting your dad for dinner."
They entered the main section of the mall and looked down the corridor, which was flooded with light. In the center of it was a long planter with decorative vegetation growing up toward the weak sunlight, which filtered down from the skylights. They looked up to the second level and could see the shoppers going from one store to another. Some of the stores were from national chains, but, as Dion mentioned earlier, many of them had no equivalent outside the mall.
Arthur's Music was situated directly in front of them. It was a chain of stores found in malls all over the country. For a small price, you could find the latest popular vinyl on display and the harder to find material in the back. Lilly enjoyed the store because it always placed the records she wanted directly in front. She remembered years ago when she went in and saw the psychedelic light display in the corner. For a moment, she thought it was one of those headshops that lined the street next to Scipio University. She was told you could find all sorts of things there that couldn't be found anywhere else.
"You still haven't told me why you're still here," Emily said to her.
Lilly had the strangest feeling Emily was jealous of Dion. She couldn't understand why; she was dating a guy from the science club who had plans to attend Case-Western in the fall. The guy was supposed to be some kind of genius who would go far in life.
"Dion needs help finding something," she told her. Lilly looked at him with her dark eyes and wondered how much he wanted her to say.
"We need a map," he told her. "We need to find the store which sells the special maps to the mall."
"You mean the bookstore?" Emily said to them. "Honestly, I don't know why you need to buy a map. Doesn't the directory tell you everything you might need to know?"
"There is a lot in the mall not on the directory," he told her. "To find the special stores, you need a special map. I need to find the store which sells the special map."
"What is so special about the map that you need it to find your way around the mall?" Emily demanded. "I never have any trouble finding my way around. Why don't you just ask me where you need to go?"
"Dion thinks his parents might be somewhere in the mall," Lilly said to her. She turned and smiled at Dion, hoping she hadn't made a mistake of some kind."
"What? I thought your parents were dead? Isn't that why you live with your aunt and uncle?"
"I have reasons to believe they are held inside the mall," Dion explained. "I really don't want to go into my reasons, but I need to find some people who are inside the mall to get help."
Emily turned and gave Lilly a questioning look.
Lilly knew what was going through her head. She thought he was nuts and his insanity had spread to her. The school had more than its fair share of bent minds. Some said it was because of its proximity to the airbase where tests were conducted in the dead of night. Others thought it might be something in the drinking water. And there was one group that believed it to be caused by an old Indian curse. Right now, Emily felt Dion and Lilly had taken leave of their sanity.
"Could you do one of those tricks you showed me?" Lilly asked him. "Maybe show her something that will convince her she needs to help us?"
"I wish it was that easy," Dion sighed. "And for your information, it isn't a trick. I can only do what my destiny allows."
"At least show her something," Lilly said. "I'd hate her to think I've gone nuts without a good reason."
"I'm inside the mall and this changes everything," Dion explained.
"You're saying it doesn't work inside the mall?" Lilly asked with a strange look on her face. Was this one of those conditional things con men and bunko artists used to trick people out of their money? It wouldn't be the first time a boy tried to trick her to give something up.
"I'm saying if.... I do something like that in the mall it will alert the wrong people in the mall that I'm here."
"What are you talking about?" Lilly said. "We've already had a run-in with Officer Karanzen and his minions. Whom else do we have to worry about? I don't think the sheriff ever comes in this place unless he gets a call about shoplifting."
"Officer Karanzen?" Emily said with surprise. "That explains why I saw him walking down the concourse. He looked angry. He had those thugs of his with him. All of them in fact. Is something going on I should know about?"
Dion looked at Emily, and then turned to Lilly. "Okay, I'll show her a little bit of what I can do. Not so much to set off alarms, but enough so she'll understand. I can do some small things, but we have to keep moving when I'm done. Even a little bit of change can alert the wrong people if they are close to us."
He walked to the large planter in front of them. The two girls followed behind. Next to the large garden planter ran a bench where people could sit down and relax. It was a new concept the mall introduced to the busy shoppers who were out for a day to spend their money or run up credit cards. He seated himself down by the planter and looked at the soil in front of him until he found what he needed to locate. The girls seated themselves next to him.
Dion looked into the dark earth transported from a local greenhouse into the interior of the mall and concentrated. He closed his eyes and leaned back on the bench with his hands on the ends of his knees. Most people who walked past him assumed he was resting or, maybe in some kind of meditation. But Dion was using all the power he'd inherited from his family to harness the power of the earth element. He sat there and breathed slowly but with intensity.
Emily, who wore a blue top over a pair of white painter's pants, turned to Lilly. "Is he okay? Should we go find a nurse or something?"
"He's fine. Give him some time, he's in the middle of doing something and it doesn't always come easy to him."
Both Lilly and Emily heard a sound inside the huge planter and turned to see the source. Inside the planter, where there was a little bare spot in the dirt, a plant was growing. It hadn't been there before, but now it was. It began as a little sprout, pushing its way up through the soil and then reaching the surface of the dirt and showed some green. This took place as they watched it happen. It reminded Lilly of a time-lapse film of a growing seed she had watched in a biology class on a 16mm projector. But this was not a trick of photography; the plant grew before their eyes.
Now the green stalk reached the lower leaves of the plants around it and began to rise above the twigs and branches around it. It was a healthy shade of green and sprouted two leaves, which unfolded and lifted upwards them as if they were two arms reaching out to heaven. Several more leaves and stems emerged from the soil. They were inches in height in a matter of minutes. The plant reached a height of six inches and sprouted small buds all over it. When the buds were at the level of the other plants in the soil, they unfolded to bloom into bright flowers of yellow and blue.
"I don't believe I've just seen that happen," Emily said to her friend. "How does he do that? What's the secret? Some kind of new plant food?"
"No plant food," Dion said as she relaxed and opened his eyes. "I will it to happen. It only works if the destiny of those plants was to grow and bloom. I've speeded the process up, nothing more. The problem is, those plants will wilt faster as well. There is a price to be paid for all this elemental energy to be expended."
Emily reached over to the new flowers in the planter. "Is it okay to touch them?" she asked. "Will it cause a problem if I come into contact with one?"
"No, they can't cause you any problems. I wouldn't pick one and take it home, though. Even if one of Officer Karanzen's men didn't stop you, the flower would be wilted by the time you got it back. As I said, the process was accelerated. What blooms quickly, fades just as quick."
The two girls examined the flowers and commented on how beautiful they'd looked while growing, while Dion rested on the bench.
He didn't like to do these small demonstrations. Not only did it have the potential to alert any elemental being in the mall that an elemental worker was around, but also it took a lot out of him. Until the full source of the power was transferred to him by the Grandmaster of the Earth Element, he would be exhausted to show these small examples. He knew it was important to get Emily on their side, but he didn't want to do any further demonstrations to get people's attention.
"We are close to the bookstore where I can buy the map," he told them. "I think I see it over there, next to the bathrooms." Dion pointed to the other side of the concourse.
The girls looked to see a new bookstore in the space occupied by a blank wall just a few days ago. The mall management had a good way of concealing any place which was not rented. They had a portable wall, which could be spread across the front of the empty storefront. It concealed its true nature, and no one would ever notice. When the mall was initially opened, there were quite a few of them. They prevented the mall from looking underutilized. Now most of the spaces were rented and there was no need to conceal empty space.
The bookstore was called "The Ramses News Agency" and had an Egyptian theme to it. This didn't surprise Lilly, as the King Tut exhibit was still fresh in many people's minds. She'd stood in line with her parents for hours to see it when the show passed through Cincinnati. It was the talk of the summer that year and the exhibit left many cultural artifacts in its wake. There were hit records and nightclubs with faux Egyptian themes that remained popular for years. She decided this news agency, or bookstore, was trying to ride what was left of the fame.
"This is the place," Dion said. "It will have what I need." They both followed him into the store.
"Wow," Emily said to Dion. "You really made a plant grow. That's incredible... can you make a plant sing?"
"No," he told her as he walked through the entrance. "It's a very bad thing to make a plant sing."
The door to the store was slid back, which allowed everyone the chance to walk inside it. As they walked through the entrance, Lilly looked up and noticed the images of two Egyptian goddesses who joined hands over the transom and looked down at the customers as they walked under them. She thought they might be supposed to represent Isis, but wasn't sure.
The news agency was filled with books and magazines, just as they had expected. Lilly thought the name for it was a little odd, as most places which sold books and magazines, were called "book stores" and not "news agencies". Still it was a minor point and one she didn't trouble herself over.
In the front of the store was the magazine rack. It stretched down one entire side of the store. Lilly walked up to it and noticed the rack displayed publications in all languages. She was impressed as it carried the latest fashion magazines from Paris and local ones too. She looked up and didn't see the usual "This is not a library!" sign. Nor did she see any security mirrors, which usually covered the store and allowed the clerks to see if anyone was shoplifting.
The air smelled of exotic spices and herbs. She found it a pleasant scent, even if it did remind her of a head shop. She looked down the length of the store and noticed several older men at the end of one rack trying to conceal the magazines they were perusing at the top row of the display. She snickered, as the subject matter was obvious. Funny how you would know just from a walk into the store what they read.
Dion was in the middle of the store in search for what he needed to find. Lilly couldn't locate the map section, but was sure it was there somewhere. This was a news agency, so where else would you find one? Even Emily was perplexed where you would look. Didn't they sell maps?
"Can I help you?" a voice said to Lilly from the side.
She turned to face an older man who appeared to be from the Middle East. He was tall, thin and had a very birdlike appearance to him. This had to be the owner, or manager, she decided and noticed he held a clipboard in one hand and a pen in the other. He would know what they needed to find and where it was located.
"We're trying to find your map section," she said to him. "My friend doesn't trust the directory to find what he needs in the mall and he claims you can help him.
"Permit me to introduce myself," he said to her as the man placed his pen into a pocket on his jacket. "I am Mr. Jehuti. I opened this store myself last week and I will be glad to help you find what you need."
"Yourself?" a voice said behind him and a very regal woman stepped out from behind the counter. "Don't I get some credit?"
"Oh, I'm sorry. This is my lovely wife, Maya," he introduced her. "She keeps me in line and restores the divine harmony we need to keep this place running."
Lilly noted the woman had long coarse hair tied back by a headband. For some reason she had a feather in the headband. She wore a long dress that brushed along the floor. The woman radiated energy and all three of them could feel her presence.
"We need to find the special map of the mall," Dion said to them. "Not one of the regular ones. I need the map which shows me all the places not indicated on the regular ones."
Mr. Jehuti looked at him for a few moments and closed his eyes. His wife came up behind him and touched his shoulder. He opened his eyes and smiled at the three young people in front of him.
"You have come to the right place," he told them. "You want the map produced by Come Forth By Day Cartographic. It just so happens I have one behind the counter. Dear, would you please go get it for our honored guests?"
The woman walked back behind the counter, her skirts swirling as she went. She returned with a scroll that was tied with a ribbon. She handed it to her husband.
"It has all the hidden places marked," the storeowner told Dion. "You will find what you need on this map. I caution you to be very careful with it, as these are hard to obtain. You don't want the wrong sort of people or things to find this. The map company would be very disappointed if they discovered it fell into the wrong hands."
"How much do I owe you for this?" Dion asked as he took the map from Mr. Jehuti.
"Nothing. It was sent to me because I knew you would come by and need it sooner or later."
"I don't know how to thank you."
"No need. Knowing we have helped and allowed you to continue on your search is all the gratitude we need. I record things around here and your visit will make for such an entry."
The woman turned to Dion. "You should be very careful about what you do inside the mall. There are many who do not want to see you succeed on your journey."
"I'm aware of that," Dion told them, "but I must continue. My parents' lives are at stake and I am the only one who can rescue them."
"Do you have knowledge of what you are up against?" she asked.
"A little."
"Good. Know that there are many agencies in this mall you do not see, but once they understand you are here, they will do what they can to prevent you from succeeding. I want to see harmony established again, it is why I am here with my husband. I can't do much from the inside, but you know who to come and see if you need advice."
"Thank you," Dion said. "Glad to know I have some help if I need it. Not so glad to know there are so many against me, but it was something I suspected."
"Wait," Mr. Jehuti said to Dion as they started to leave, "how much knowledge do you have of the elementals that reside in this mall?"
Dion and the girls turned back around to face him. "I know there are some here and about," he said. "We were introduced to the ones who work for Officer Karanzen. I didn't realize they have such a back story."
"Those are not elementals," Mrs. Jehuti told them. "They are something else which he controls, but we are not sure what. I think they were humans at one time and now he has control of them."
"Are you telling us the security guards are some kind of zombies?" Emily asked, one foot crossed over the other, half-confused, half-scared.
"How free is it to talk in front of them?" Mr. Jehuti said to Dion. "I understand why you are here, but they don't seem to share your abilities."
"It's okay. I've shown each of them what I can do and they are satisfied of it."
"I think we need to take this conversation somewhere else," his wife spoke. "Would any of you mind if we moved to another location to talk about it?"
"I have no objection," Dion said. He turned to the girls. "What about the two of you?"
"It's all fine with me," Lilly told them.
"I suppose," was Emily's response. "But who will watch the store for you?"
"We won't be gone that long," Mrs. Jehuti replied. "Relative to the subjective time, that is."
Then the entire store vanished.

Chapter 4

Emily opened her eyes again to see a sun in the sky overhead. She looked at it just long enough to focus on it. It seemed to her there was something next to the sun in the sky, but she could not see it very well with the glare from the light.
Emily shielded her eyes with her hand and looked again. There was something behind it, pushing it along. It didn't move very fast, but the thing that pushed the ball of sunlight was exerting itself. What was it?
A beetle.
A beetle?
Emily shaded her eyes and looked again. It was a giant beetle, which moved the sun in the sky. The light hurt her eyes and she looked around her.
Dion and Lilly were with her in a vast desert. She looked down and found herself shoeless and standing on the hot sand. She no longer wore the painter's pants and blue top. Now she had on a wrap-around dress, which lacked a back. Dion and Lilly were dressed in a similar fashion. Dion had a scarf over his head. It was secured with a band around it in the form of golden snake.
"Where are we?" Lilly asked. And given their surroundings, it was an honest question.
"Someplace... else," Mr. Jehuti said. He and his wife were with them. He too wore a scarf around his head and was dressed in a long robe, which fell to the ground. In one hand, he carried a scroll. His other hand rested on a staff.
"Don't worry," his wife spoke, "the subjective time of this place won't register when you return. We find it better to come here to hold conferences. There are less ears to hear and eyes to see. In the other place, we don't have enough power to block those who would interfere."
Mrs. Jehuti wore an elaborate skirt, similar to the one she had on in the news agency and a backless top. Her long woven hair was tied back by a headband, just as it was before. But this time the feather in the headband was much larger and elaborate. She too held a staff in one hand.
Lilly looked off in the distance. There was a pyramid under construction. The work crew was busy hauling stones across the sand from the river using a sled pulled by oxen. As they headed toward the pyramid, a man came running up to them and held out a set of plans. The foreman of the crew consulted the plans, pointed out a few things, and then the man ran back in the direction of the building project with his plans under one arm. The work crew continued to move the stone block in the direction of the construction site.
"Amenhotep wants to make sure it's done on schedule," Mr. Jehuti chuckled. "He's never satisfied with any of his design work. Such a perfectionist."
"We were talking about Elementals," Dion said to them.
"Elementals, yes," Mr. Jehuti continued. "They are all over that mall. You, I am sure, felt them the moment you walked inside. They seldom leave the mall since it's safer for them to stay there. The mall builders used a lot of them. They needed to get the project completed faster than anyone thought possible. There are many kinds of elementals inside the mall, but four major ones you will encounter. Right now, you must be wary of the ghouls as they thrive in their earth element. You will encounter the sylphs eventually, who fly in the element of air. There are also water nymphs, which can cause you more problems than you might expect. Lastly there are the salamanders."
"Those lizard things I find under logs?" Emily said. "They don't seem to be much of a problem."
"Not the same kind of salamander," Mrs. Jehuti informed her. "These are a type of fire spirit. They have the potential to be the most dangerous ones of all."
"We don't know what kind lived in the center of the mall," Mr. Jehuti said. "We have never been to the center. And, ultimately, that is where you must travel to find your parents."
"Once you achieve full power in each element," Maya Jehuti added, "you will have dominion over that elemental. They don't want to be bound to anyone, so the elementals will stop at nothing to prevent you from reaching your goal. They share this with those who control the mall."
"How will I know what to look for?" Dion asked.
Lilly moved to one side of Dion while Emily turned to watch a boat sail down the river near where they were standing.
"You will learn to tell them from you encounters," Mr. Jehuti said. "It will take time, and once you have located each Grandmaster of the Element, you won't need to as they will be bound to you. Until then, be wary of groups of people who seem to be working toward a common goal inside the mall."
"Do you have any more questions?" his wife said to them.
"Are we in the past?" Emily asked her.
"We are in a past. It's not the same past you read about in school, but one which still exists. I think it is time to return."
Instantly, the desert landscape vanished, and they were back inside the news agency.
Dion and the girls blinked several times as the trip had created a distorted sense of reality. Emily looked down and saw her clothes were back to the way they were. She looked at her wristwatch. Only thirty seconds had elapsed from the time they left to the time they returned.
"Not subjective to the local time," Mrs. Jehuti said to her again. The couple that owned the store were back inside it, still dressed in the same matter from the time they left. Once again, the older man handed the scroll back to Dion.
"You will need this if you are to locate the Grandmasters of the Elements. I don't worry and know you will be able to find them without much trouble. But be wary of what I told you."
Dion thanked them both.
They walked out of the news agency and back into the main concourse of the shopping mall. It was still there. Lilly expected to return to the desert landscape and watch the work crew continue to pull the sled, but they were back to where they had been.
"So, all we have to worry about is a group of people working together," Lilly said to her friends. "Great, that could be so many people. What do we do? Watch out for a fire brigade running into this place? We've already been informed Officer Karanzen doesn't count."
"I'm almost scared to go anywhere," Emily said. "I just came back from the desert and don't even know how I got there. Nothing in this place makes sense."
"It makes plenty of sense," a man who was seated on a bench said to them. They turned in his direction, as he hadn't been seated there when they entered the news agency. "You have to understand the rules by which this place operates. When you know them, it becomes very clear."
Sitting on the bench was an elderly man in a leisure suit, eating an ice cream cone. He was bald and had a gold chain around his neck. He continued licking the ice cream cone as he regarded them. The man's voice was high-pitched and nasal, and he spoke with an educated British accent.
"Ice cream cones," he sighed. "One of my weaknesses. The doctor says I should lay off them, but I can't help myself. They won't be the death of me this time, but if I continue to indulge, I'll be sent back and I don't want that. Oh, dear me, where are my manners? You can call me Edward."
"So how do you figure into all this?" Dion asked the man. He was surprised, as the man was a new factor in the game in progress.
"I don't," he explained. "I'm just here as an enlightened observer. I can give advice, but not if it will make a difference. So please don't ask me what form you elementals will take, I have no idea."
"Are you here to join us?" Lilly asked him.
"Now isn't that charming?" he said to them. "A pretty young lass asks if I want to join her. I'm not back for five minutes and my old ability returns. No, I'm just here to watch and report. I'll be around from time to time. Think of me as a one-man Greek Chorus. Excuse me, but are you allowed to smoke in here?"
"No," Dion told him and pointed at the "No Smoking" signs on the wall.
"That is indeed a shame. Alas, this age is so unenlightened. I expected better, but already I have seen wonders never anticipated. Is it true you all own televisions?"
"Most of us do," Emily told him. "My aunt won't have a TV in her house, but she's the only person I know who doesn't have one."
"A shame. I never thought they would replace cinemas."
"So what kind of advice can you give us?" Dion asked.
"I can only tell you what you already know," he replied. "I can tell you to pay attention to what you won't. Who do you think around here does most of the work associated with the earth?"
They looked at each other and thought for a while.
Finally Emily spoke.
"It can't be a construction crew," she said. "All of that work is done."
"True. Now look about you and think about what the next most obvious example might be."
They turned and looked down the concourse. Nothing was apparent.
Then Lilly noticed something.
There were janitorial workers everywhere. At least ten different people were involved in emptying the trash and sweeping the floors. They all had their uniforms on and were very busy at their jobs. One of them waxed a brass handrail, another hauled bags of trash out of a can. And every single one of them was glancing in their direction as they carried out their tasks. She watched them move closer every time they did something. This wasn't random; the crew was closing in on them.
"The cleaners," Lilly whispered. "The cleaners are watching us."
"Don't look and make it obvious," Dion said. "Just focus on what's in front of you."
Lilly and Emily did their best but they couldn't help but turn in the direction of the janitorial staff as the cleaners began to move closer to them. The cleaners did everything they could to make their actions appear normal and fit into the daily business of running the mall. However, there were a few things that anyone would find odd about them.
First of all, they all had the same appearance. Each one had a large forehead and shaggy hair. All of them wore sunglasses, even inside the mall. None of them were women, all were men. None of the cleaners appeared to be more than five foot two in height. It appeared someone had printed a basic form of "cleaner" and used the template to create a horde of them. They moved slowly, but with deliberation. Each step took them one closer to Dion and his friends.
"Excellent," said the man called Edward. "I see you are waking up. I wish I had a cigar; there must be a tobacco vendor around here somewhere. Alas, you tell me I can't smoke inside this place. Such a shame. You colonists have such strange values. Anyway, can you guess what they might really be?"
"Gnomes," Emily blurted out. "They are really gnomes. The mall has contracted out to a company which uses gnomes as janitors."
"Wrong. But close," the man on the bench, said. "They are not gnomes, but ghouls, creatures who frequent graveyards. This is why they need to wear the sunglasses. The light hurts their eyes. They are used to activity under the light of the moon. The brightness of the sun is too much for them."
"These are the elementals associated with earth?" Dion said to him. "How does that work out?"
"Think about it," Edward said as he adjusted the silk shirt that he had over his corpulent body. "They live underground and do not usually come out in the daytime. But the mall has to have them work all day long, so the unlucky ones get to clean up while the mall is open. There are a lot more of them, but they stay in the subbasement in the daytime. Have you ever had to interact with a cleaner in this place?"
"I can't say I have," Emily said.
"Me neither," said Lilly.
"That is how the management would like it kept," Edward pointed out. "Most people don't even acknowledge that the cleaners are here. They are invisible and no one could even remember what they looked like. The ghouls want it kept that way too, because it assures them a steady source of employment and a decent place to live. They can stay in the subbasement and no one is even aware they are down there outside the mall management. If you look at the nametag on their shirts, they all say 'Bob'. Now don't you find it funny no one has ever asked themselves why all the cleaners are called the same name?"
"From the way you describe it," Dion said, "it sounds there's a benefit to both the mall management and the ghouls."
"Oh, there is. I don't see this arrangement lasting forever, though. Eventually someone will notice and the management will be forced to hire some humans to do the job who won't attract much notice either. In the meantime, they have a whole group of humanoid creatures who will keep the place clean and only cost them room and board. Eventually the ghouls will realize they can do better than push a broom or clean a handrail, but this will be far in the future."
"So they don't want Dion to gain power of the earth elementals because it threatens their status?" Lilly asked. "It seems rather short-sighted of them."
"It might seem that way to you," Edward said. "But you haven't had to live in a cave all your life, afraid of the sun, afraid of the humans on the surface and starving for whatever food you could get. The ghouls are like vultures, they only eat things that are in a state of decay. There are plenty of things they can eat around here. Plenty of sandwiches tossed away every day for them to let age. As I said, eventually they will figure out who is getting the better of the relationship, and then the mall management will need to find another kind of earth elemental to live in this part and keep it balanced."
"Wait a minute," Emily said. "Are you telling us there are a lot of elementals for each kind of element?"
"Quite a number, actually," Edward confirmed. "You guessed wrong about the gnomes, but they could've easily brought them into this location for the right price. The ghouls made them a better offer and they occupy the earth element section of the mall."
"It's something to keep in mind," Dion said to him. "I hadn't realized there was such variety per element."
"You have much to learn," Edward said.
The man on the bench pulled a pocket watch out of his jacket and looked at it. "Well, well, I have over stayed my time. Good luck, my pretties, you will need it in order to find what you seek, but I have faith in your abilities."
Then he vanished.
It was sudden. One minute he was sitting there with an ice cream cone, the next he was gone. There was no flash of light or anything else. He was simply no longer there and the space on the bench was no longer occupied.
"Another variable in the equation," Dion said. "I suppose we will meet many more so long as we stay here."
"I don't think we should stay here," Lilly said to her friends. "We should move on and try to find a way to avoid the ghouls."
"They'll only follow us," Emily said. "What's worse, they know this place far better than we do. I doubt there's a place we can hide that they don't know about."
Dion noticed a table near the bench with a few chairs around it. "Let's sit there," he said. "It will take them at least a half an hour to reach us at their pace. I want to look at the map and see what it shows."
They went to the table and sat down. Dion rolled out the map and looked inspected it in great detail.
"What kind of paper is this thing on?" Lilly asked him. "I've never seen anything like it."
"Papyrus," Dion said. "They printed the map on papyrus. When you consider how we came by it, I'm not too surprised. At least it isn't on vellum."
The map was not printed. As they looked at it, it became evident it was hand painted. All the corridors and grand concourses of all four sections of the mall were on the map, but each figure was drawn by hand and colored in with care. Strange symbols listed what each one was for and how it related to the overall structure of the mall. Neither Emily nor Lilly could read the words written on the map.
"What language is this?" Lilly finally asked them. "It looks like Greek."
"Not Greek," Dion told her. "Coptic. The ancient Egyptian language written out with Greek letters. See? There are words in Greek you can read... if you understand the Greek alphabet."
"But some of these letters don't look Greek," she continued.
"There were sounds in the Egyptian language which Greek didn't possess. The Egyptians came up with some letters for those sounds."
"I thought the Egyptians used those funny picture writings," Emily said to them as she stretched her legs out. She kept an eye on the ghoul cleaners who were still headed in their direction.
"You mean hieroglyphs," Dion said. "They started with those, but you need to be a decent artist to write in that form. It was difficult to find and train scribes who could do what the nobility needed, so they developed a shorthand version called hieratic. That was still too complicated so the Egyptians came up with a form known as demotic, which consists of a serious of dashes and strikes. Coptic is the easiest one to learn, so it stayed around.
"Not that it does us a lot of good," Lilly said. "We can't read the map, so how can we tell what it says?"
"I can," Dion said. "I can use it to read the map, so I'll be able to find our next target."
"You can read this?" Emily asked him. "Dion, you are full of surprises. How many languages do you read?"
"Besides English? Three. Latin, Mandarin Chinese and Coptic. My parents insisted I learn these three when I was growing up. They seemed to think it was very important I knew them. Looks like they were right."
"So what does it show us?" Emily asked. She leaned over the cryptic signs on the map, trying to decipher the symbols and how it related to what was indicated.
"Let's see," he told them as he ran his long fingers over the papyrus. "The walls are clearly marked on all levels. They split each level into a separate map, but the basement and subbasement are divided twice. Not much room in the subbasement and there is an exit marked which leads in and out. Must be how the ghouls travel to and from the mall."
"Well this is interesting," he continued. "There are stores on this map which don't appear on any other. Now why would you not want a store to appear on a map of the mall?"
"Maybe they're not really stores?" Emily said. "Perhaps something else?"
"No, these are stores, but I don't think they're supposed to appeal to humans. That's it! Each of the five stores marked in gold aren't accessible to humans."
"How can that be?" Lilly asked him. "How do you have a store in a mall which restricts entrance? I thought the whole idea of a mall was to have a central location where anyone could come to shop."
"Anyone can also include customers who are not human," Dion told her. "For instance, this particular store would appeal to ghosts because it carries new tombstones and listings for houses they can haunt. I'm sure if I probe deeper, I would find it had insurance against mortal interference."
"How do they keep out the humans from going inside it?" Lilly asked Dion. "It seems like any other store on the map."
"You know those fake barricades on the front of empty stores? The ones you don't notice because they fit in so well with the mall architecture? They have them over the stores where humans aren't supposed to shop. Ghosts can go right through the barricade, but a human wouldn't even know it was there. I'm not sure how they keep mortals out of the stores which appeal to the vampires and werewolves, but I'm sure there is a way to do it."
They looked at the map for a few more minutes, ever mindful of the steady approach of the ghoul cleaners. Finally Dion pointed out another store on the map. "There it is," he told them, "the location of the Earth Elemental Grandmaster. I need to go there right away."
"How do you know it's the right location?" Lilly asked.
"It is colored black and has the alchemical earth symbol on it. If you look at other sections in the mall, you'll see the symbol for air, water and fire on them. There is one store in each of the four mall sections where the Elemental Grandmaster resides. It's marked with the symbol of that element. Here..." he pointed out each store on the map. "All I have to do is reach the store and find the Elemental Grandmaster who runs it."
"Sounds easy enough," Lilly said. "How do we pull this off? It's never as easy as the plan. And I think our ghoulish friends have begun to cut us off."
They could see the ghoul cleaners in motion as they surrounded them. There was still a way out, but it would close very soon if they didn't move.
"So which is the store in our section?" Emily asked Dion. "I'd like to get this wrapped up today and go home. Those ghouls are giving me the creeps." She watched as two of them who swept the floor looked up and grinned.
"Here," he said and pointed to a store on the map. "It's a pharmacy called The Alchemist Shop. The Elemental Grandmaster has to reside there. Makes sense when you consider alchemy was the ancient science of purification of material matter."
"I thought the alchemists were trying to find a way to make gold," Emily said. She continued to keep the progress of the ghouls under observation.
"That was what they told everyone. It was a way to get royal patronage while you continued your work. They attempted to understand the basic forces of the universe with the materials they had with them. Sometimes it was a quest for the philosopher's stone or the universal solvent. Sometimes it was internal and the 'great work' would change them as much as it changed the object of their experiments."
"It appears to be on the opposite side of the restaurants," Lilly said, "if that's what is supposed to be here. Funny, I count three restaurants on this map across from it; I thought there were only two..."
"Number three is for werewolves," Dion told her, "you're not supposed to know it's there. It looks like a short walk down the concourse, so let's go."
Dion rolled the map up and tied it with the leather strand Mr. Jehuti gave him when he was handed the map. They began walking in the direction of the pharmacy. Naturally, their path took them on a collision course with the ghouls.

Chapter 5

Three of the ghoul cleaners were directly in front of the trio as they headed to the pharmacy. However, this time of day the mall was crowded with shoppers who wanted to take advantage of the early shopping.
Two of the ghouls put their brooms down and glared at Dion and his friends as they walked past them. The ghouls didn't dare interfere with them, as it would alert the other shoppers. Emily could see the rage in their faces as they walked past them. The ghouls had attempted to close in on them by stealth, but now they walked past them. There was nothing the elemental creatures could do about it.
Emily smiled at the ghoul cleaner as she walked by him. She could see him twist the broom handle in his hands as they went past.
"It won't be so easy the next time," Dion said to his friends. "They tried stealth to put a stop to me this time. Next time they'll be more aggressive."
"I don't see what they can do to slow you down," Lilly told him. "Imagine the bad publicity if a mall shopper is jumped by the janitorial staff. The papers will be full of stories and the county will launch an investigation. What happens when they find the ghouls living in the subbasement? I don't think they want it to happen."
"They may look slow and stupid," Dion warned them, "but they're out of their environment. They've managed to survive outside for thousands of years by avoiding contact with humans. They have all kinds of ways to get back at us. So long as we're in the mall, they are fighting on their own territory. Keep that in mind."
Soon the pharmacy loomed ahead. It was directly across from them in a few minutes. It was also next to one of the mall theaters.
The Alchemist Shop was a small pharmacy, which was easy to miss from the outside. The exterior had few glass windows and only one entrance, which was behind a closed door. Unlike most of the mall shops, this place had a reason to restrict traffic from the inside and out. There was only one sign on the exterior, which proclaimed it to be a "Full service pharmacy" and a smaller one which promised "Compounding on premises".
"It has those colored water glass things," Emily observed as they stood outside and looked at it. "You can tell it's a pharmacy."
"I suspect the Elemental Grandmaster wants it that way," Dion said. "He or she has plenty of customers who come to him or her alone, I would guess. No reason to advertise the presence to just anyone."
"At least we're here," Emily said. "Now let's go inside and see what the deal is with you receiving these powers. Maybe I'll even go home early."
The moment she spoke, there was a commotion in from the lobby next door. They turned and watched as twelve ghoul cleaners emerged from the lobby with floor polishers, vacuum cleaners, mops, brooms and rags. As they stood and watched, the ghouls set up a barricade right outside the pharmacy and began to clean. In minutes, the floor polishers ran at full speed and the ghouls were busy with glass cleaning and doing what they could to remove every speck of dirt in front of the pharmacy. They parted to allow a few confused customers to leave the pharmacy, but prevented anyone from entering it. At no time did any of the ghouls speak to each other or the shoppers. It appeared they had a way to communicate which did not involve sound.
"I have to give them credit for planning," Dion said to his friends. "Still, they can't block the entrance to the pharmacy forever. Eventually they'll have to move on. Even Officer Karanzen won't tolerate this kind of behavior for long."
"Yeah, but what do we do in the meantime?" Emily asked him. "We can't sit out here all day waiting for them to move.'
"The restaurants," Lilly pointed out behind them. "We can go to one of them. Shouldn't be much trouble. We can go have dinner and hope they'll be gone by the time we're finished. Maybe we can get a table near the window and keep watch on them."
They all agreed this was as good an idea as any of them had. The ghouls weren't moving, but eventually the Elemental Grandmaster would make them leave the front of his or her pharmacy. Dion and his friends couldn't wait all day so they turned to the restaurants behind them.
"We have two choices," Dion said to Lilly and Emily. "Chinese or this New Orleans place."
"Never ate New Orleans style before," Emily said. I vote in favor of it."
The other two agreed and they walked to the entrance.
Baron Sam's New Orleans Chicken didn't appear to be very big from the outside. They were disappointed to see there was no window that looked at the pharmacy across the hallway. The trio stopped and looked at the menu outside the restaurant, which was posted for all to see. The prices appeared to be quite reasonable so they pushed the door open and went inside.
Inside, the restaurant was decorated for Mardi Gras. Colorful beads decorated the interior and vinyl masks lined the walls. The interior was designed to resemble some place off Canal Street with French influenced architecture built into it. They stopped and took it all in for a few minutes until someone came up to them.
"Greetings!" a loud voice said to them. "I am Baron Sam and I rule here!"
They turned to face a tall black man who wore a top hat. He handed each of them menus and asked them if they'd ever been inside his establishment before.
"I don't believe so," Dion told him. "At least not me. I don't think any of my friends have ever been here either. I see you specialize in New Orleans food?"
"Yes," he laughed again. "We serve food from Louisiana and also from Haiti. Have you ever tried blackened catfish? It is one of our specialties?" Baron Sam quickly found them a table and had a waiter bring them water.
Through the PA system Dixieland jazz music played. From one wall extended the branches of a tree with imitation Spanish moss. Dion expected to see a fog machine unleash a mist at some point. The girls took it all in and looked at the set-up before them. After reading the menu, they made their order.
Before the food was served, Baron Sam came back to see them. "Excuse me," he asked them. "Did you by chance visit the bookstore down the concourse? It's run by a relative of mine and he let me know three young people who fit your description might come by."
"In fact," Dion said to him. "We were just there before we came here. He gave me a special map I needed to find my way around the hidden sections of the mall."
"Ah, you must be the young man on the quest. This explains those cleaners out in front of the pharmacy. The lady who owns it is Athena West and you will need to see her. I've been on the phone already with the mall management and told them to get the cleaning crew moved. Not only are they causing people to avoid the pharmacy, but customers will also stay away from this side of the mall when they see all of them outside. People will just assume some kind of disaster has taken place and won't go near here."
"So you must know about who the cleaners are," Emily said to him. "Have they always used ghouls to take care of the building maintenance?"
"Ever since the mall opened," he told them. "They are normally spread through all sections, but they have their base of operations out of this part of the mall because it's the element which governs them. I know the management threatens them all the time with gnome replacements if they have problems. However, today is the first time I've ever had to deal with them doing anything unusual. I'm guessing they really don't want you to meet up with Mrs. West."
"They've stalked me earlier in the day," Dion explained. "They know I'll be able to bind them if the Earth Element Grandmaster bestows her powers on me. But I really don't know what they have to worry about."
"They don't want to lose their place in here," the man explained. "The ghouls have no desire to hiding out around graveyards and forced to avoid humans. They'll do just about anything to stay away from the way they used to live. Personally, I think the mall management takes advantage of them, but they don't seem to mind the arrangement. At least for now."
The food arrived and they finished their chicken dinner in less than half an hour. Dion had money with him that day and paid for all their meals. It was delicious food and they complemented Baron Sam on his cooking. He thanked them and quickly handed the trio change so he could return to the kitchen. As they left, Lilly could hear him barking out orders in Creole to the cooks in the kitchen.
The ghouls were still outside blocking the entrance to the pharmacy. They seemed to have an attitude that they could wait there as long as anyone else could. The three friends stood there and watched them continue to polish and clean the floor outside the pharmacy. Anytime anyone would attempt to enter it, they would stare at them and shake their heads.
"Can I have a look at that map?" Emily asked Dion. "Maybe I can figure out a way out of this mess."
"You can try," he told her while handing it over to her. "But I don't see how you'll have any better luck than I did. Remember, it's all written in Coptic."
"Whatever," she said as she untied the scroll and spread it out on a nearby table. "I can figure it out from the layout. I scored the highest in my class on mechanical reasoning. I have a good head when it comes to abstract reasoning too."
As the others sat down at the table with her, she traced a hand down the corridors and concourses marked on the scroll. "Funny thing," she said, "not only does this map list a restaurant which isn't supposed to be here, but it shows a separate service entry for it too."
"I guess the werewolves don't want it obvious what they serve," Lilly said to her. "I'm sure it would cause all kinds of trouble with the health board."
"Look," she said while pointing out a few other eating establishments on the map. "If this means the same thing, there are at least five places scattered through this mall which are restaurants, but aren't open to the general public. This one is pretty big and looks like some kind of a cafeteria. But why is it located in the basement?"
Dion looked at the map with her. "It's for the ghouls. I'm guessing they don't want anyone around to see what they're eating. When you consider they have the same nutrient requirements that a vulture has, it makes sense. I'm sure the smell must be horrible down there."
"But not to the ghouls," Lilly said as she looked at it with her friends. "It probably gets a very different response from them."
"Now that is something we can use," Dion said as if he'd just had and epiphany.
"What do you mean?" Lilly asked him.
"All we have to do is find some roadkill outside to distract the ghouls. Shouldn't be too hard with all the cars speeding past the mall."
"Yuck," Emily turned her face in disgust and tossed her blond hair over one shoulder. "You can go find some roadkill and bring it inside; I'll try and locate another path around the ghouls."
They looked at the map for another ten minutes, but nothing emerged that made any sense. The ghouls continued to block the front of the pharmacy and acted as if they were doing some kind of advanced cleaning. Anyone who approached them found a reason to leave after they glared in response. Even with the sunglasses on, the ghouls could be imposing.
"If they are paralyzed by strong light," Lilly said, "might there be a way to direct some powerful sunlight on them and get through to the Earth Grandmaster?"
"Where are we going to find the arc lights?" Dion said. "You have to rent those things and I have no idea where we'd find one."
"Get a mirror of some kind and shine it in their direction?" Lilly suggested as she continued to search through the map. "It might blind them long enough to get past."
"Same issue," Dion said. "We have to find one. Where would you find a mirror large enough to shine light on the whole group? In addition, there is the problem of finding a beam of intense enough sunlight to direct in their direction. I don't see one handy."
They continued to stare in the direction of the ghoul cleaning crew who returned their gazes with contempt.
At one point, the owner of the pharmacy opened the door and walked out to confront the ghoulish crew in front of the store. This had to be the Athena West, The Earth Grandmaster, they realized, although they could only see her from a distance. She stepped out and nearly slammed the door behind her.
"So this is why we haven't had any business in the last hour," the woman thundered at them. "Can't you finish up whatever you are doing and move on? Look, I have bills to pay and you need to get this wrapped up."
The ghouls stopped working but continued to stand in place. Finally, the storeowner realized they blocked the entrance to her pharmacy for a reason.
"Oh, trying to keep someone from coming to me for elemental help, is that it?" she said. "Do you have any idea what I can do if you keep this charade up? All it takes is one phone call to the center and you will all be scampering under the moonlight trying to survive. You have fifteen minutes and if you aren't gone, I will go directly to the mall manager."
She stood there and maintained the standoff.
The pharmacy owner was a tall woman, who appeared to be of African ancestry. Dion stood there and thought he'd never seen a woman so black in all his life. She was the color of anthracite coal in a mine at midnight. He didn't think it was possible to make a person so dark in complexion. She wore a lab coat over a short dress and had a pair of boots, which were made from tooled brown Moroccan leather.  Her hair was teased out but tied back by a black wrap that descended down to her shoulders. She was tall and had to be a good six foot two in height, and the boots she wore made her appear that much taller.
"Fifteen minutes, you hear me?" she said to the ghouls. "You are gone in fifteen minutes or else." The door shut hard behind her as she returned to the pharmacy.
"That's her!" Dion said to his friends. "It has to be the Earth Element Grandmaster! She matches the description on the map! And Baron Sam told us about her!"
"What description?" Emily said to him as she rolled the map up. "I didn't see one."
"It's there if you read Coptic. And I felt the power from her. Didn't you?"
"Oh, I felt something all right," Lilly said, "but it was mostly her wrath."
"If she's the Elemental Grandmaster," Emily said, "then why don't we just go over and meet her? The heck with those idiots trying to keep us away from the pharmacy."
Still carrying the map, Emily leaped up from the table and walked in the general direction of the pharmacy. Dion and Lilly tried to say something, but her mind was made-up. Emily had a reputation for being headstrong and nothing was about to stop her from going in the direction of the ghoul cleaning crew.
She got as far as the first line of the ghoul crew.
Before he could do a thing, Dion watched Emily being grabbed by two of the ghouls. It wasn't so obvious as to attract the attention of the shoppers. They were incredibly organized and coordinated, better than he ever thought possible.
The first ghoul acted as if he was ready to let her pass. Emily ignored him and walked right into the middle of the ghoul assembly as another ghoul innocently dropped a bucket of water in front of her. Emily stopped at the puddle, which formed in the floor as another ghoul took her by the shoulders and pushed her in the direction of yet another one. She started to say something but the final ghoul grabbed her by the shoulder as the one before him took the other shoulder and walked her to the nearest service exit. The doors swung behind them as they vanished into it. The remaining ghouls finished cleaning the floors and fixtures, picked up their cleaning implements and followed their brethren into the service corridor.
The entire episode took less than thirty seconds.
Lilly looked at Dion in disbelief. "What are we going to do? They just kidnapped Emily!"

Chapter 6

"We've got to stop them!" Dion said and began fast walking to the service corridor, just in time to be confronted by officer Karanzen and four of his security guards.
The guards materialized out of nowhere, blocking him as he approached the service door and stopped both him and Lilly from walking further.
"Bella, Bert, Bayer and Izzy," Dion said to them as he remembered their names. "Let me guess, you ran out of B's and had to make with a last minute replacement?"
"Check this out," Bert said, his bad breath already assaulting the nose of Dion. "The kid remembers our names. We have a real smarty here."
"Yep," Izzy agreed, "he's so smart we may have to find him a school. Who gets to take the smart boy to detention?"
"That is my job." It was officer Karanzen who'd materialized out of nowhere. "We have a problem here, guys? Something I need to know about?"
"Our little friend was causing a commotion," Bella announced as he continued to fidget. He slowly withdrew his nightstick from the holder on his utility belt. "Did you see him throw a punch at me? I think the little punk just swung at me."
"Put the stick back," Officer Karanzen snapped at his guard. "Nobody starts anything unless I give the order. Get fresh again and I'll send you back to where I found you."
Karanzen's words had the right effect. Bella returned his stick to the belt and became glum.
"So what really happened?" he demanded from Dion and Lilly. "I come around the corner and my boys are ready to stomp you flat. Now talk!"
"Emily was grabbed by the cleaners," Dion told him. "She tried to walk across them and they took her down the service corridor."
"So that explains the call I had from Mrs. West. She just let me know the cleaners were out in front of her store preventing anyone from coming inside. I called management and they told me it would be handled. I came over myself to see what was going on."
He turned to his men. "Did you see anyone with these two?"
"Nope," said Bert, "Not a soul."
The other three agreed with him.
"I don't see anyone around either," Officer Karanzen said. He turned to Dion and Lilly. "If they took the girl, and I only have your word on this, it had to be cleared with the management. Now, the management of this mall may not be the Ace of Spades, but one thing they would never do is abduct a local girl. A local girl could cause them trouble. A local girl would involve investigations and all sorts of things bad for business. So if the cleaners took her it means the management wanted to see her for some reason. In other words, she's safe and will be released soon. Maybe one of the cleaners saw her lift something. I don't know, but I'll call the main office and find out by the end of the day."
"I don't believe one word of what you just said," Dion told him. "You're covering for someone."
"I'm here to keep the mall safe!" Karanzen snapped back. "Safe means dealing with punk kids who try and cause problems. Sometimes an example has to be made. This mall has the lowest thefts and least safety issues of anyone in the country. I plan to keep it that way."
"You're such a model employee, Officer Karanzen," Dion said. "I'm sure you'd haul your own grandmother off if it meant a promotion."
"Never had a grandmother, Junior. Or parents for that matter, so don't try that angle either. I will warn you to stay out of my way. I'll find out what happened to your little girl friend, but on my own schedule. And don't cause problems looking for her. Don't mess with the shoppers or cause any issues because if you do I'll have you tossed out of the mall. And my boys would like nothing better than to bounce a smart kid off the pavement." The guards behind him gave Dion a sinister grin.
Officer Karanzen and his guards turned and walked away from the two and vanished down the concourse.
"What do we do?" Lilly asked. "Can you go to the Earth Grandmaster and get her help? Aren't you supposed to see her anyway, to get your power?"
"No. Not until we rescue Emily. If she finds out I didn't go help a friend in need, she'd most likely consider me unworthy and refuse to grant me the power. We have to locate Emily and get her back before we can do anything else."
"The problem is," Dion said, "we don't have the map. She was carrying it when they grabbed her. I'm tempted to go after them in that service corridor, but it could lead anywhere. Make a wrong turn down there and you might have the whole ghoul clan waiting for you. As a matter of fact, some of these doors are..."
Dion stopped when he noticed the service door was gone. He walked up to the blank wall and put his hand on it. Solid. Yet, there was a door there twenty seconds ago.
"Gone?" Lilly asked. "But I just saw them take her through a door that was mounted in the wall!"
"Temporal door," Dion said. "The ghouls have access to doors they can slap anywhere they need them to be. The door has a mate they keep wherever they want. The door they took her through redirects to the other one. I suspect it is down in their part of the mall, but I'm not entirely sure."
Dion was staring at the wall when a familiar face appeared next to him. It was Sam Vestal, an old friend of Lilly.
"You been here long?" he asked. "I just got here. Need to buy some shoes. Say why are you looking so glum?" he said, deliberately ignoring Dion.
Sam was one of the benchwarmers in the local football games. He liked to think of himself as a serious player and starter, but he just wasn't big enough to make the starting line-up. He also possessed a mouth that made him the object of scorn throughout the school. Sam moved to the district at the start of the term last year because his dad accepted a position as athletic coach. Sam had played for a rival school the years previously. He had a better position on the other team's line-up, right guard, but they put him a little further back in the new school. It didn't matter as his current used him as decoy after it was noticed the other team's school would ignore the plays to pummel him down the field. The same thing happened with the every school they played. It soon was apparent Sam hadn't made himself very popular over the area.
"We were with Emily," she told him. "We're trying to find her."
"Emily," he said trying to put a name to a face. "Oh, her. Cute chick, don't know why she doesn't get around better than what she does. I used to see her at that store she worked at all the time she worked there. Place closed down when the new mall opened. I'm surprised she didn't come to work here."
"Emily doesn't like working retail," she told him. "I'm here because I had to help with a banquet they were having last week."
"You should come out to The Montebello with me some night, I could get some beer and have some fun."
The Montebello was the local Drive-In. One of the first Drive-In movie theaters in the area. It was known as the local "cultural center" by the police who often had to visit it to break-up fights or escort kids home who tried to get inside for free.
Dion remembered driving past it with his aunt and uncle and noticed the line of cars, which ran down the road for a good mile. On some clear nights, you could even drive by close enough and see the images of whatever movie played on the screen. Only the top guys in the school could entertain bragging rights after taking their dates to The Montebello. However, the local mating games had no interest to him, as his number one goal was to locate his parents.
"Thanks, but no thanks," Lilly said. "I appreciate you thinking about me, but I'm not the girl you're looking to find."
"Keep it in mind," he told her and walked away as he gave Dion a smirk while he walked past him.
"That boy has a high opinion of himself," Lilly said to Dion. "I don't share it. As a matter of fact, I don't know anyone who does. You talk behind enough people's backs and soon no one wants to have anything to do with you."
"Our immediate problem is to locate Emily," Dion said. "I will say I'm glad he didn't stick around. I don't see him as being much help. He's the type who would try to rush the ghouls and, as you just saw, that is exactly what they want you to do."
"So how do we find her? We don't have the map and the door is gone. I don't want to wait around and let that big creep Karanzen take care of locating her."
"Let me think about this. I don't want to rush into anything. It could make things even worse. The ghouls won't dare harm her. They want to use her to keep me away from the Earth Elemental Grandmaster. So long as they have her, they know we don't dare approach her."
"But they can't keep her forever," Lilly said. "Sooner or later they have to let her go or the police will get involved, and even Karanzen is scared of them."
"Officer Karanzen is scared of nothing. The only thing he cares about is keeping this mall safe. He keeps it safe because so long as it is protected he has a job."
"He's the guardian," a voice said behind them. "He takes care of the Abyss."
They turned to see the strange little Englishman known as Edward behind them. Gone was his leisure suit. It was replaced by knee pants, a tweed cap and a short jacket. He held an unlit pipe in one hand, which he placed in his mouth.
"Remember," Lilly said to him," you can't smoke in the mall."
"I know, I know," he said in his nasally voice. "Can we go outside? They still let you smoke in this beastly outdoors, don't they?" He turned and looked for an exit. Seeing one, he headed for it with the two high school seniors behind him.
Once outside he inhaled the air and sat down on a bench. Edward pulled out a match, struck it on the bench and used it to light his pipe. Lit, he inhaled the fumes and let them out slowly. Now relaxed, he folded his legs under him in a way Lilly had watched yoga adepts do it on TV.
"Really can't stand the air in that place," he told them. "Too many people. Peasants all of them, running around like slaves at a market. You Americans, always so busy with yourselves."
"And where do you come from?" Lilly asked him. "England?"
"Originally, but now I'm a traveler from beyond. Beyond is a boring place and I'm pleased they let me come back here from time to time. Dion has attracted all kinds of attention and it appears I get the role of his guardian angel. I'm not holy, but I do the best I can."
"I thought I was supposed to find my own personal guardian angel?" Dion said. "I didn't think they were sent by post."
"You get the economy class version today," Edward told him, as he inhaled on the pipe again. "In due time you'll get the customized version, but right now I'm here to help. So what is it this time? They wouldn't have sent me unless you needed help."
"The ghouls kidnapped our friend Emily," Lilly told him. "They know Dion doesn't dare approach the Earth Elemental Grandmaster if he's abandoned a friend. They even took the map we were given by Mr. Jehuti and his wife. How are we supposed to locate Emily and get her back without the map?"
"Don't forget the door," Dion said. "They took the door behind them when they left."
"Oh, they used one of those temporal doors, huh?" Edward laughed. "They did want to use her to get back at you, didn't they? Let me think about what to do."
Edward turned and watched the setting sun and sighed. "I miss this. You do have some spectacular sunsets in this country." He dropped to his knees and bowed.
"Hail, Ra!" he said and stood up again.
"Now about your problem," he continued. "You do need the map, but I think you'll find it in the trash somewhere. The ghouls don't know what it's for because they can't read. They don't speak either, but they have very good hearing and communicate by looking at each other a certain way. So why would they have the map? Simple, they took it when they seized her and have no clue as to what it can be used to for. So what you have to do is look around and see if it's in any of the trash cans around the door they took with them."
"But what if they took the map with them?" Dion said, "Surely they dumped it wherever they went. Does that mean we'll have to travel all the way to the subbasement to get the map?"
"Not necessarily. They are very nimble creatures. They might've grabbed the map from her and dumped it before you noticed. In spite of what you might think, the ghouls are very neat creatures and don't like to take any waste into their dwellings. Go back to the trashcans and rummage through them. You might find it there."
"We'll still have to go underground to get her back," Lilly said. "How will the map help us find the way down?"
"The map will have the location of doors and passages which lead to the subbasement that the ghouls don't know about. Find a passage they can't possibly know about and use it. You will be able to tell it's a passage they won't use if the map shows it to be illuminated. The ghouls will avoid any passage with light as it hurts their eyes."
"You make it sound so easy," Dion laughed, "but we're supposed to find the map in the trash, use it to travel underground in a secret passage and rescue our friend from carnivorous ghouls."
"Don't worry, they only eat carrion. Plenty of that for them around the mall. So long as the restaurants order too much food every day. Someday they'll learn how to order food supplies better than what they do and the ghouls will move on. But right now, the arrangement works out for everyone."
Edward pulled out his pocket watch again and looked at it. "Oh dear, time to go. Mustn't overstay my allotted time, I will make them very cross with me." He inhaled on his pipe one more time and vanished.
"So, he shows up when we're at a hard spot?" Lilly asked Dion. "He doesn't look like an angel."
"I'm not certain when he'll show up, but he's been a help," Dion said.
"Might as well go back in the mall. Will you be able to use your powers down in the subbasement?"
"I can use them anywhere. But I don't have very strong ones right now. Making a column of water rise, causing a plant to grow, I can do these things, but they exhaust me."
They walked back into the mall, passing up people as they entered it. A few of them Lilly knew, but these were not people they could share their quest to find Emily. A few of Lilly's friends waved at her and she returned the response. Several looked at her funny, no doubt due to Dion being with her as she walked along. Dion was not one of the popular boys at the school and some of the adults in the town thought of him as a little strange. Dion's uncle worked for the local university and taught philosophy. They didn't blend in very well to the standard military/farmer/tradesman cliché that ran the town.
Fromatius was originally a rural farm district outside of the urban Scipio. Once upon a time, the schools were small and the principal source of income was chicken farms. But, as the roads improved and the city grew congested, people with money began to move out of town. Fromatius was on the main road between Xenon, another town to the west, and Columbus, much further to the center of the state. As people moved into the area, developers saw the chance to make some cash and tossed up houses across the shrinking farms. Old timers would still talk about where the cow farms were in the past, but they shrank every year. Sometimes the farmhouse would remain and be surrounded by rows of new tract homes.
With the increase in population came the need for schools. Whereas the town once had three elementary schools and a high school, it now boasted of two high schools, four junior high schools and a chain of elementary schools. This mandated the hiring of an army of schoolteachers who moved to the town from outside the state, which created more tension between the town's older residents and new ones. Even the school board elections, which used to be sleepy, became heated on several occasions.
Then there was the Air Force base next door. Wrought Field was established to test experimental aircraft before the Second World War, but boomed in the years after it. It wasn't uncommon for people to put their phones down because a B-52 bomber was flying overhead. Likewise, plenty of glass windows suffered until complaints to the base commander stopped test aircraft from breaking the sound barrier over the neighborhoods. Rumors abounded about the alien from outer space in the deep part of the base, but no one at the top level would ever confirm or deny their existence. The truth was stranger and seemed to be connected to the appearance of the mall somehow.
As they walked into the mall, past the glass entrance doors, which swung in both directions, Lilly saw someone she hadn't seen in a long time. It was Detective Charles, a friend of her dad's. It struck her odd he was at the mall as he worked for the Scipio Police Department and seldom left his district. He'd grown up with her father and was practically an uncle to her.
"I see someone who might be able to help us," she told Dion, after sliding up to him and trying to act as if they were a couple. "It's a cop my dad knows who works out of the city."
"You can't tell him too much," Dion said. "What is he going to do against the forces in this place?"
"You have no idea what that man has encountered in Scipio," Lilly said. "Detective Jones is legendary down there. He's solved more murders than anyone in the state. Dad once told me the department thinks he's a psychic of some kind over the ways he can get information out of people. We don't have to tell him a thing about Emily, but he might know some things that could help us. Besides, what's he doing here in the middle of the day?"
"Okay, just be careful what you say to him."
Detective Jones was a short man in his forties who had a fashionable beard, neatly trimmed to police specifications. The police department relaxed the dress code for him as he worked undercover. Lilly wasn't even sure he'd want her to say hello if he was on a case, but he waved in their direction when they walked up to him.
"Little Lilly!" he said. "Getting so big! And who is this?"
"My friend, Dion. Dion, meet Detective Jones, I've known him all my life."
"No need for the 'Detective' title. I'm off work today and shopping for a present for the wife's birthday. Today I'm 'Mr. Jones'."
"So you're not here working on a case," Lilly said.
"Nope. Just shopping. I hate it. I usually leave the shopping to my wife most of the time. Can't do it today and none of my daughters are around, so I decided to come by myself."
"Why don't you show Dion one of your tricks?" Lilly asked.
Dion, who'd been tracking the location of the trashcans, swung his head back around.
"Tricks?" he asked them.
"He's a real magician," she said. "All my life he's been showing me how to perform little tricks to impress my friends."
"Just an amateur," the detective laughed. "I've had an interest in stage magic all my life. Over the past few years, I've started to order tricks through the mail and try to pick up my skill level. I find that it helps build connection with the suspects during interrogation. Show them a simple card trick and it lowers the tension. One of these days, I'll retire and build an act around it. I was always a fan of the mental tricks I used to see on TV as a kid."
"I'd love to see one," Dion told him with a smile.
"I just happen to have a pack of cards on me." The detective took a step back, withdrew a standard pack of playing cards from his pocket and shuffled it several times.
After he finished shuffling the cards, he handed one to Dion. "Ace of hearts, as you notice, now please hold the card facing downward."
As instructed Dion flipped the card over and held it down.
"Now let me look through the pack and see if I can find something that beats it," he said. Jones shuffled his deck of cards several more times and withdrew a card. He turned it over to reveal a six of diamonds.
"Don't think I've found anything to beat what you are holding. Why don't you turn the card over and let's try it again."
Dion flipped the card over to reveal the card that had now transformed into a six of diamonds.
"Didn't beat it, but at least I found an equal," the detective laughed.
"Nice," Dion said. "I won't even ask you did that because you won't want to give the trick away. You ever use your stage magic to solve crimes or get suspects to confess?"
"No, just to build rapport and confidence with people I talk with and find a way to kill time. It helps to loosen tension. If we have to go into someone's home for instance, I can help entertain the kids while my college is interviewing someone. Works to bridge feelings to all the communities we help out."
"I see. I know some tricks myself; would you like to see one?"
"Of course," the detective said with eager eyes. "I'm always looking to build my repertoire. What can you show me?"

Chapter 7

"Can I have three random cards out of your pack?" Dion asked. The detective shuffled the deck and handed him a trio.
Dion smiled, took the cards and walked back over to a table where he'd sat with his friends before the encounter with the ghoul cleaners. He carefully placed the cards in a small lean-to where they supported each other on top of the table. Then he walked around the arrangement to make sure there were no air currents from any direction to blow it over.
He walked back to Jones and Lilly. "You see the cards. They came out of the same deck you handed me. You notice there are no air gusts or wind currents in this section of the mall. We're too far away from the door to let it affect them. Right now, no one is next to the table. So would you not agree that the cards should stay in place until someone comes by and knocks them over?"
"I'd expect them to stay put, yes," Jones agreed.
Dion folded his arms and concentrated.
This was not something he did very often. The air elementals were very difficult to summon and wouldn't always appear when needed. They tended to be flighty and hard to control. When they did show, sometimes they performed their job a little too well. The one from early in the day had exhausted him. But for what he needed, it shouldn't be too hard to bring one up.
He was still for a good thirty seconds until he felt one around this part of the mall. This wasn't a large one, but enough to do what he needed. Dion concentrated and let it know he would be very grateful if the elemental could simply knock the cards over. The air elemental was intrigued and decided to help him, making Dion remember that, until he obtained his full power from the Air Elemental Grandmaster, Dion owed him a favor. Dion agreed and promised to let it out through the nearest door. With the deal sealed, the air elemental swooped in the direction of the cards.
Jones expected the cards to merely fall over, the result of a kinetic trick Dion would set up. All he needed to do was time it out so the cards appeared to fall on his command. The detective had seen such tricks done before and, if done properly, always impressed a bar audience. But what happened here surprised him to no end.
The three cards blew up into the air by a gust of wind that sent them flying across the concourse. They landed far from each other, which forced Dion to walk over and pick them up. He walked back and returned them to the detective. While he was bringing them back, he spotted something in a nearby trashcan and made a detour toward it.
It was the map.
The ghouls had managed to dump it before they took Emily. Relieved, he rolled it up, put it under his arm, and headed back in the direction of the detective.
"That was amazing," Jones said as Dion handed him the cards. "I have no idea how you pulled that trick off and don't even want to ask. You have been practicing a long time?"
"All my life."
"Do you have any idea if anyone has come up missing in this place lately?" Lilly asked Jones. "One of our friends has been gone for a few days and her mother thought she might have gone here before she left."
"Never heard a thing about people disappearing at this mall. But it's a new one. The one on the other side of town? Maybe, they're having some trouble over there, always happens when you have a place where people congregate. I'll keep an ear out and let you know if I hear anything."
"Thank you," Dion said. "I'm sure you have Lilly's phone number at her parents' house. We would appreciate it. Oh, and one other thing, when you leave could you hold the door open to the count of five?"
"Sure, any reason why?"
"Something I'm working on that involves the trick I just showed you. I think you'll feel a gust of air at the five second mark."
"No problem."
Jones walked to the door, opened it and held it open for the five-second count. At the fifth count, he turned and looked at Dion with a face that said "Well?"
His jacket was pushed aside by the gust of wind as the air elemental flew out the door and into the freedom of the outdoors. Dion could sense the relief it felt to be outside the mall and into the fresh air. The detective gave him a funny look as the door automatically closed behind him.
"You have to tell me how you did that," Lilly said. "With your abilities, I'm guessing."
"I made a deal with an air elemental which was stuck inside this part of the mall," Dion explained. "It's supposed to be off limits to them, from what I can tell. It wanted outside and I offered to let it go if it would knock the cards over. All Jones had to do was hold the door open long enough for it to escape. It's gone and that was the burst of wind you just saw."
"Wow, can you actually see these things around us all the time?"
"It depends on how powerful they are. An Elemental Grandmaster can bind and control them. I haven't reached that level. Not even close. It's why I need to find the other Elemental Grandmasters, so I'll have all the abilities. Right now, I can see air elementals riding in storm clouds and recognize ghouls on the ground. Water sprites aren't so hard to see either and they will gladly do things for me just to get attention. I've seen fire elementals dancing around in buildings, which were burning down. There's another kind of elemental too, but I don't know much about them."
Dion pulled out the papyrus and sat down in front of a table outside one of the shops. He unrolled the map and looked at it. Lilly could tell by his groans that something was very wrong.
"They get food all over it?" she asked him. "I saw you pull it out of the trash."
"No, the writing has changed. It was in Coptic, now it's in ancient Sumerian. I can't read the new language." He held it up for her to look at. He was right; this was a completely new style of writing which was even more bizarre than the last one.
"It has to have something to do with it being close to the ghouls," Dion said. "This map was made by someone with particular cartographer skills. They made it so that the language is fixed to the last person who last used it. If we use it to find Emily, the next person who sees it will be looking at a map in English."
"But the ghouls didn't use it for anything. They tossed it away."
"I know, and there's not a thing I can do about it. Something about the ghouls being elementals affected the map. I don't understand it either, but the end result is that we don't have a map I can read.
"So what are we going to do? You want me to go to a pay phone and call Jones' house? I can always tell his wife we need his help bad and he'll come back. Don't know how long that will take...."
"No, I still don't want to get him involved. We bring him into it and whoever runs this mall might get very angry. There are all kinds of things they can do to ban us from the place. The right word to Officer Karanzen and we'd never be able to get back inside here."
"Is there any other way to read it?"
"I'll have to find a seer stone," he told her. "It's a small crystal you can use to read any document in any language. Now, who around here would sell one of those..." he looked around the mall at all the stores in the distance and eventually his eyes spied a gift store called Trollworks.
"Think I found it!" Dion announced as he got up from the bench with the map back under his arm.
Lilly followed Dion to the store, which had a small display of minerals and silver jewelry in the window. It also had a few black light posters, something she hadn't seen around in years. Perhaps the store had plenty of stock it wanted to get rid of.
Inside, her eyes were struck with a variety of colors and her nose with an assortment of scents. Lilly felt the chill of cool air and turned to see a terrarium on the counter where all sorts of curious plants grew. Small animals worked their way around inside the tank, but she couldn't identify the species. She turned and saw a glass case filled with cut geodes, polished quartz and other beautiful minerals. The entire store was filled with samples from the mineral kingdom with one special case filled with fine stones set in silver rings and brooches. Around the walls of the store, which was very small, were posters in fluorescent colors designed to glow under ultraviolet light.
"I thought they would sell," said the man behind the counter. He was in his thirties and had a black beard with matching long hair down his back. He was short, not even five foot in height, but had a strong countenance. "And of course, they stopped selling as soon as I had a warehouse full of them. Did you want to buy one, perchance?"
"We're interested in something else, Hobbs," Dion said to him. "This is Lilly, by the way. Lilly, meet Heinrich Hobbstone, but everyone around here calls him Hobbs."
"Well met," he told her. "I hope the business picks up or I might end up moving out. I used to have a much bigger space down near the campus, but then waterbeds quit selling, so I'm here."
"You have a lot of interesting things to sell in your store," she told him as she perused the black light posters, record albums and small balances. "I'm not even going to ask what is on the back shelf."
"How old are both of you? The state mandates I ask, which is why I just did."
"Eighteen," they both said at the same time.
"You have driver's licenses?" he asked them. They both reached down their pockets and handed them over. The man carefully held them up to the light to look them over.
"You can't tell the fakes unless you know the real ones inside and out," he said. "One of these days, the state is going to come down hard on people and then they'll regret looking the other way to turn a fast buck. As for myself, I plan to be here as long as I can. Big future in the books and posters. The music, not so much." He handed the ID's back to them.
"Okay," he said, "Now I can talk to you. Just don't ask me about the stuff I sell on the back shelf. The last thing I need is a pretty young girl wanting to know how to use massage oils. I have enough to deal with by being short and without a girlfriend."
"I can't imagine how you would go without a girlfriend," Dion laughed. "Popular guy that you are. You must have a little black book somewhere?"
"I use it to record the calls from my ex-wives," he said. "Now what is it you needed to see me about? I quit selling concert tickets last month, by the way. Lost a chunk promoting the Babe Ruth show with Hawkwind opening. Someday people will remember those bands, but not now."
"I need a seer stone," Dion said. "Do you have any here? I'm willing to pay a good price for one."
"Why are these things so popular lately?" Hobbs asked him. "I had a man come in here just last week and I sold him a brown one."
"Did it work?" Dion asked him.
"I guess it did. Never saw him again and I'm sure he'd have brought it back if it didn't do what it was supposed to do. The guy claimed he'd found some metal plates in his backyard with Phoenician writing on it and needed to stone to translate. I told him the stones would work fine for any human language, but just because it translated, didn't mean it would make any sense. You ever see what one of these will do for an old German text? Heck, you have to hunt around and find the verbs because they're buried on separate pages. Not to mention the way words are blurred. Everything comes out 'little girl neutral radish guild house forward', if you understand what I'm talking about. Anyway, let me see what I have."
Hobbs ducked under the shelf, not hard for him to do, and picked up a box. He placed the box on the counter and waited.
"Something wrong?" Lilly asked him as they waited with him.
"It only opens if it trusts the person who held it. Bought it from a kobold mine years ago and they built it to hold valuables to their specifications. They don't trust anyone and hide all their valuables in these boxes.
The box appeared to be carved from a blue stone with spectral qualities. It had dragons sculpted into the surface and on one side the image of an earth-moving machine. Slowly, there emerged a hum from the box as the lid opened a little bit at a time.
"Guess it trusts us," Hobbs laughed. "These things are expensive, but they're safer than banks if you need to hide special items. I'd trust it before I would a safety deposit box."
Hobbs took out a green stone and put it down in front of Dion. It was smooth, appeared to be made from jade, and had a transparent quality to it. Dion picked the stone up and handed it to Lilly who turned it over and noted the fine polished surface.
"You might want to test it out before you take it," Hobbs told them. "I'd hate for you to leave here with one that didn't work. Everyone would blame me, as usual."
On top of the counter, Dion rolled out the map with the cryptic letters on it. He weighted it down with a stone smoking pipe on one end and lava light on the other.
Hobbs looked at the map with him. "You do have some strange letters on this," he commented. "This is one of the better ones and it should make it readable. I have stones that can outperform it, but I save those for treasure hunters. Let's see if it can do the job."
The green stone began to pulse with an inner light and projected it across the map. Lilly stood there with Dion and watched as the light scanned across the map. As it did so, the letters on the map changed color and began to move. The letters morphed into different patterns as it tried to find some common goal.
"You sure this will work?" Lilly asked the man.
"Give it a chance. This seer stone came from the Islandia. I have confidence it will do the job."
Slowly the letters reassembled into something that resembled English. Now Lilly could read it too. The letters marked the pathways into and out of all the mall sectors and even showed the location of the underground kingdom of the ghouls. She looked and noticed some of the temporal doors marked by the map, which the ghouls had used to take Emily away after her abduction.
"So how do those doors stay marked if they can be taken by the person who knows how to work them?" she asked Dion.
"The doors appear and disappear at different times. The door the ghouls took with them appears at another location in an hour. See? The map lists the times the door will appear and where it will show up."
"So all we have to do," Lilly said, "is to find where the next door to the ghoul subbasement will open?
"Little bit more difficult," Hobbs said. "The door opens to a corridor which terminates in the subbasement where the ghouls live. You need to take that passageway down there if you are going to end up where Emily was taken. And the passageway will be dark. Ghouls don't care as they have special vision which allows them to see in the dark."
"But even cats have to have some light," Lilly pointed out. "Do these corridors have a light source of their own?"
"Not always, and it's not a good idea to take a torch down there with you as they signal to the ghouls that someone is in the corridor. You need to get down to their subbasement without them knowing you are on the way."
"And ghouls can see in a spectrum other than visible light," Dion explained to her. "They can use infrared radiation to find their way around. They have excellent hearing as well."
"So what are we going to use once we find the door?"
"I have just the thing for you," Hobbs said. The little man went below the counter again and came back up with a cardboard box. He placed it next to the seer stone box.
"Picked this one up the last time I paid a trip to the kobold mines. I do a fair amount of business in the rock and gemstone market, so I thought it would come in handy. But I think you will need it better than me. At least right now."
He opened the box to withdraw a carbide lantern attached to a miner's helmet. It was attached to a container, which strapped to the waist and had a small valve hooked to the lamp. The lamp fit snuggly on the helmet.
"Is it some kind of magic?" Lilly asked him.
"Depends on how you define magic. This one uses sacred calcium carbide stones which, when treated with holy water, release sprits in the form of acetylene gas. The sprits travel up to the lens where they are ignited. They provide the divine light of illumination to the path you seek. So it is a kind of elemental earth power, just one miners use all over the world."
"What do we do if the ghouls attack us?" she said. "They'll know we're headed their way when they see the light."
"For a small fee I can sell you another mystical weapon," he told them. "I'll need the paperwork to satisfy the government elves. It projects elements of your will in the form of lead at rapid velocities and will make them think twice about a second attack, should you need to use it."
"That is quite all right, Hobbs," Dion told him, "but I don't want to resort to firearms unless absolutely necessary. I can't imagine what a gunshot would sound like that deep in the subbasement and we'd all lose our hearing. I've got a few ideas of my own on what to do about the ghouls if they attack us."
"Your decision," Hobbs replied with a grin on his bearded face. "Even a concussion grenade might come in handy down there. No fragments, just a big bang. No worse than setting off a huge firecracker."
"I like my hearing too much," Dion said. "One of those things could rupture an eardrum."
"I tried. Just keep in mind you don't have a lot of earth elemental power you can use against them. It will take more than a few rolling boulders to keep those things at bay if they charge you."
"I'll keep it in mind. How much do I owe you this time?"
"I'll send the bill to your aunt and uncle. They're good for it."
Hobbs packed the mining helmet in a backpack and showed Dion how to use it. The lamp and gas unit sat combined on top of the helmet and had an ignition switch inside it. He told Dion to be careful about firing it up as too much gas in the chamber could cause an explosion. He also included a large flashlight for Lilly to carry and tossed in a miner's helmet for both of them.
"You'll want that helmet," he made clear. "There may be some low ceilings in that corridor. The only ones who use them on a routine basis are the ghouls and they have no trouble slipping around tight passages."
"I'll let you know how everything turned out," Dion told him as he picked up the pack with all the equipment inside it.
"Take care of her," Hobbs said. "You really shouldn't bring along anyone who doesn't have elemental powers. Ordinarily, I wouldn't advise you to go down there as there's a certain aspect of danger in the corridors. But I can see you want your friend back and I don't know another way to get her. Tell your aunt and uncle I said hello and to expect a bill."
Lilly and Dion left the store with the map, seer stone and pack. After they'd walked a distance down the concourse, Dion found a table where he could spread the map out and look at it. Lilly noticed the lettering on the map was still in English.
"Do you still need the seer stone since it turned the letters into English?"
Dion was studying the map and comparing their location to the one on it. "It will change back if the seer stone leaves the vicinity of the map."
"Is there some kind of range for the seer stone? I mean, five feet, twenty, a hundred?"
"I don't know. I haven't had the chance to use one of these before. I think it'll work so long as I keep it close to the map. This is why I intend to hang on to it and keep it in my pocket until I get back to the surface. I might even return it to Hobbs once this adventure is over. I don't know if he has a return policy, but my aunt and uncle should get some money back for it if we don't need it anymore."
"Does it have a life expectancy?"
"Good question. Anything part of the Earth Element does. Well, it usually does. However, they're not like car batteries where you can know exactly when they'll fail. Although, come to think of it, even car batteries have a big range of life. So maybe they are like car batteries. Good point."
"But I've found where the next doorway to the subbasement will appear," he told her. "It's due to open in another ten minutes on the other side of the concourse under the stairs."
Lilly and Dion hurried down the concourse in search of the mysterious door. As they went, the two of them passed some of the security guards who gave them a menacing look.
So far, Officer Karanzen had no reason to have them removed from the mall. He'd warned them it could all change, so they needed to be wary this time.
The mall was its cheery self.
You had to work there or know what really went on behind the scenes to understand the place. The mall was an endless army of consumer goods cycled into the hands of those who needed or thought they needed them. A vast army of display experts and managers sought to find the perfect way to portray the goods they carried to the public.
Lilly wondered how many of these stores would still be here in twenty years. Already, older shopping centers were fading into the sunset as the clientele headed for newer, brighter lands with trained staff to wait on them. It was the perfect place to hide anything that merged with the supernatural. Besides, a shopping mall was a supernatural experience in and of itself. People entered forlorn and emerged in a state of euphoria from their purchases.
Supposedly, someone had tried to build a New York style disco inside the mall when it first opened. It never lasted, as so much from the East Coast didn't when they tried to import it to the heartlands. It never stopped people from taking what they found on the affluent parts of the country and shoving it on the less affluent wage earners in the Midwest. She wondered how much longer the factories would last which ringed the town and city. They seemed so smoky to her and full of grime. One day nature would revolt and shut them all down. In place of the factories would stand crumbling buildings, and no one would remember what they had been used for in the beginning. The only thing that ever seemed constant in this world was change.
She watched a security guard from one of the armored car services enter the mall and head in the direction of an anchor store. He would leave with a satchel full of cash in a few minutes. Then he'd be on his way to deposit it in the bank. Eventually someone would figure out they could follow the armored car and make a little withdraw of their own. Did the armored cars have some kind of elemental protection of their own? She made a mental note to ask Dion about it later. It seemed like a possibility. Why not? Perhaps they had a representative of each element riding in the car, ready to defend it against any robbery attempts. Two elemental riding up front and two in the back. Didn't he say there was a fifth? Would the fifth ride in the engine?
"Here it is," Dion told her when they reached the door. "Exactly when and where the map told us we could find it. It will only be here for another ten minutes so we have to move quickly."
He began walking toward it.
The door resembled any other access door in the mall. It had no window and had the words "Employees Only" written on it.
"Is it locked?" she asked him.
"Not to me it isn't." He reached out to grab the handle. Nevertheless, the door stayed firm. He jerked on the handle a few more times, but it stayed firm.
"I don't get this," he said. "I should have enough recognition by the mall to open any door that's not physically locked. How do I get into this one?"
"You didn't ask me for the key," Edward's voice sounded behind them.
The funny Englishman stood there wearing a robe. He had a hood over his head, which gave him a vaguely sinister look as he held out a skeleton key to Dion.
Dion took the key from him. "I didn't see a keyhole on the door," he told Edward. "How does it work?"
"Just touch the key to the door and it will recognize it. The ghouls reset the doors to keep you out. They didn't realize there is a grandmaster key that can override them. Now what are you going to need before you go down there besides a miner's helmet?"
"A weapon to protect us," Lilly said. "We will need something to prevent the ghouls from coming after us once we're in the corridor. All Hobbs had were guns. Do you know where we can get something else?"
"As a matter of fact I do and here he comes right now."
Down the concourse came a maintenance man pushing a floor polisher. He was human and pushed the polisher up to them. The man left in front of Dion and Lilly, and then walked away.
"A floor polisher?" Dion said to him. "That is your idea of a weapon? What am I supposed to do? Use it as a club?'
"Now, now, dear boy," Edward said. "Think about it. This polisher has no electrical cord. You can push it all the way down to the subbasement where the ghouls live. It is gas powered and starts with a simple pull chain. Just like a lawn mower, don't forget to adjust the choke."
Then he disappeared.
Dion stood there and looked at the empty space. "Great," he said to the empty space where Edward had stood just moments ago. "We need to get her back and we have no way to do it that makes sense. What am I supposed to do with this thing?'
"I have no idea," Lilly said, "but Edward wouldn't have left it here if it had no use. He's been helpful so far."
"I could use something practical from that deus ex machina," he told her. "This is absurd. Anyway, we have to get through the door before it closes again. You can carry this. Looks like I'll push the damn polisher." He handed Lilly the pack and moved the floor polisher to the door. Once at the door, he touched it with the skeleton key. There was a click and the door unlocked. Dion pushed on it and this time it opened.
It wasn't long before the door clicked shut behind them.

Chapter 8

Other than the light filtering under the door, Lilly and Dion found themselves in a dark, empty chamber. Lilly couldn't see a thing, but she heard Dion grumble as he bumped into a wall.
"Hand me the pack," he told Lilly. "I need to light that lantern on top of the helmet."
"I watched Hobbs do it too," she said and placed the pack down on the cool floor. "I think I can light it as well as you."
She unzipped the pack and felt around inside for the helmet with the lantern attached. She carefully lifted it out and found the ignition switch. Just as Hobbs showed them, she depressed the button to the count of three and heard a pop as the lamp became illuminated.
Now there was light inside the chamber. Lilly place it on her head and tightened the strap over her chin. She carefully adjusted the flame until the heat of the lamp was down and the chamber was fully exposed.
"Hey!" Dion said and raised his hands as she swung her head in his direction. She realized the lamp had blinded him and turned her head in a different direction. She reached back in the pack and handed him the second hard hat. He too placed it on his head and tightened down the strap. They turned to look at the corridor in front of them.
It continued in a downward slope to the subbasement, but they were only able to see part of it as the light limited what could be viewed. Dion shrugged and began to push on the handle of the floor polisher as they walked down the smooth concrete ramp, which took them deeper into the home of the ghouls.
"They'll know we're coming just from that light," she said to him in a low voice. So far, they had seen stonewalls and smooth floor, but nothing else. The corridor was void of any kind of mice or rats, for which Lilly was thankful.
It was also very quiet.
She had no idea what to expect when they reached the subbasement, but it shouldn't be very long. The mall only had two basements and they'd entered on the ground floor. There was the possibility that this corridor's length didn't correspond to the elemental lengths, but Lilly didn't want to think about that. She assumed the passage would be the same length from the surface to the subbasement as if they'd entered using a normal stairs. They continued their movement down to the ghoul level.
A few more minutes of travel and they were in front of a pair of doors that read "Subbasement".
Dion took a minute to stare at it. "Pretty much sums it up. Let's see what's on the other side."
Before they reached the door, it swung open to reveal the ghoul cleaners from the pharmacy. There were twelve of them this time and each one carried a club and wore mirrorshades.
Lilly shined the light from her lantern on them, but it made no difference. They stood there, patted their clubs, and stared at the two interlopers.
It was in that moment Dion realized what use the floor polisher would have against the ghouls. He clicked the choke into position and pulled the chain on it, firing up the gas engine. The floor polisher screamed into life with a roar slightly greater than a lawn mower. It was loud and the close walls and ceiling of the corridor amplified the noise.
The ghouls screamed, dropped the clubs and grabbed their ears. Some of them fled to the other side of the door, most howled in pain from the noise created by the floor polisher. The noise was so loud that it even hurt Dion's ears. However, he let it roar; slowly walking up to the ghouls with the polisher as it created a wall of sound they couldn't stand.
The ghouls who remained in the corridor dropped to the floor and shook their heads as they tried to silence the painful noise. With enhanced hearing, the roar of the floor polisher sent them into spasms of agony. Dion watched them howl for a few minutes, then shut the engine off.
A few of the ghouls stood up, breathing heavy. They didn't say a word, but looked in fear at the floor polisher. Dion waited until one of them stood up and put his hand on the pull chain. The ghoul waved his hands, and hugged himself. The meaning was clear and all Dion needed to do was walk in their direction with the floor polisher. The ghouls waved their heads and vanished on the other side of the doors while bowing.
Dion stood in place with his hand on the pull chain.
"The noise," he told Lilly. "They can't stand the noise. Edward knew it, which is why he had the guy bring me the floor polisher. So long as I have the ability to send sound waves in and mess up their world, they'll do what we want."
"I don't want to go through those doors," Lilly said. "I hope they bring Emily back out because we just might have to do it."
A few minutes later the ghouls returned with the bound and gagged form of Emily. They approached Dion and held her up so the light from Lilly's headlamp shone on her. It was Emily, as far as they could tell, even with the smeared make-up, they knew it had to be her. She was unable to say a thing.
One of the ghouls pointed to the map under Dion's arm. "I think they want to make a trade," he said to Lilly.
"I thought you told me the ghouls can't read and didn't know how valuable that map is. Why would they want to trade for it?"
"Could be that they know how useful it is. Could be they found out when they kidnapped Emily."
"I don't trust them," he told Lilly. "These elementals have a tendency to get the better of the trade. I want to be sure it's her." He gestured to the ghouls to remove the gag from her mouth.
One of the ghouls reached up and untied the rag they'd stuffed in Emily's mouth. "Thank God you're here," she cried out. "I thought I would never get out of this place!"
"Who am I?" Dion asked her.
"Why you are, umh, ah...."
"Who is that?" Dion said pointing to Lilly.
"That's um...."
Dion pulled the chain on the floor polisher motor and the machine began to howl. The ghouls dropped Emily who promptly changed into a ghoul and they all thrashed around on the floor. Dion hit the stop button on the floor polisher and the machine wound down.
"Enough of this!" he yelled at them. "Go get the real Emily or I'll walk this thing running right into your homes!"
Gasping again, the ghouls picked themselves up from the floor and walked back through the doors.











"How did you know they would try that?" Lilly asked him after they left.
"Like I said, we're in their domain and they like to get the better of any trade. We would have traded the map for a ghoul and they would run off. Whatever is in the map is so valuable they'll risk the pain of the noise to get it. Let's see what they do the next time."
This time when they brought the figure of Emily through the doors, she was ungagged. She saw Dion and Lilly and began to blubber in tears.
"Who am I?" he asked her.
"Dion! Now get me out of here!"
"And the girl with me?"
"It's Lilly, for God's sake Dion get me out of this horrible place!"
Dion had Lilly walk over to the ghouls holding Emily and take her while she rested one hand on the pull chain. The moment Emily was back in their hands, he tossed them the map. The ghouls looked at it to make sure it was the right one and retreated back into the doors.
Lilly finished untying Emily who embraced her and began to cry. When she finished crying, he pulled the chain on the floor polisher and it started up again. She yelled but remained in human form. Dion killed the motor.
"I had to be sure," he explained to her. "They tried to give us a fake Emily once, they might do it again."
The trip back to the surface took place quick. With the light of the headlamp, Lilly was able to guide them back to the main level of the mall. Soon they were on the corridor side of the door they had entered.
"Where will it take us this time?" Lilly said to them.
"Only one way to find out," Dion said and pushed the door open.
They found themselves next to the pharmacy where the ghouls had tried to keep them from reaching. Dion stood there with the floor polisher in one hand and looked down the hallway. From what he could tell by the wall clock, they'd only been underground for a few hours.
"That's a relief," he said.
"A relief we're out?" Emily asked. "I never want to go back down there again. I could hear those things shuffling all over that place. It was horrible!"
"No, it's good we were only down there a few hours," he told her. "Sometimes you can come up from the elemental underworld and discover years have passed."
"Rip Van Winkle," Lilly said.
"Exactly. If we had gone through those doors to the subbasement, years might have passed when we returned to the surface. The same rules don't apply down there when it comes to time passage."
"You just don't know when to quit, do you?" It was Officer Karanzen and six of his guards. "I had a complaint and it appears you've gone and stolen a floor polisher. Really Dion, why do you force me to do this?"
"Force you to do what?"
"Force me to take all of you down to my office; you'll have to come with me now."
Dion, Lilly and Emily were marched down the concourse with Karanzen and his minions surrounding them. No one wanted to look in their direction because when the security chief had someone, it usually meant they were on their way out.
The office of Officer Karanzen was located in an out-of-the-way section of the mall. It had a few rooms which could be locked from the outside, equipped with closed circuit cameras inside them. This was the equivalent of "cells" that a police station might have, although the mall guards had no power to make arrests like the law enforcement officers. They could make citizen's arrests, but so could anyone else. The rooms were for special cases, people caught stealing, trying to peep inside women's' bathrooms and the like. Minors were held in the main office while one of the guards made a report and called their guardians.
However, all three of them - Emily, Dion and Lilly - were eighteen. They were legally adults, although still in high school. This created a bit of a problem for security. Technically, they needed to press charges or release them. Karanzen didn't want to go to any trouble, which might get the legal affairs people involved, so he opted for another option: taking them all into his office.
He sat the three of them across from his desk while closing the door to the rest of the security office. While they sat in their chairs, he pretended to look at some report and shuffled more papers. The whole ruse was supposed to make them think he was busy doing something else and create uncertainty and fear in their minds. Dion was aware of what he did and didn't care.
"Stealing a floor polisher," he said to Dion. "I would've thought you were the type to find something a little more elaborate. Come on, at least a rack of clothes. What did you do? Have the girls distract the maintenance department?"
"We were given the polisher," Lilly said to him.
"Really?" Karanzen returned to her. "For what? Did you plan to clean up somewhere? You don't appear to be the charwoman type."
"Can we just bring this nonsense to an end, Officer?" Dion said. "We all know what happened and how we had to rescue our friend. Do you really want us to go back home and tell Emily's family how a bunch of cleaners kidnapped her and hauled her down to the subbasement? Do you want her story on the evening news?"
Karanzen sat behind his desk and glared at Dion. He picked up a pencil and tossed it at the wall. The girls jumped up as it collided.
"I look like a fool to you, son?" he yelled. "There was no kidnapping and I would just like to see you prove it."
"I don't have to, Officer. All we need to do is go home, tell Emily's parents our story and the news reporters will be all over this place. Won't that look good on TV. We both know the reason this mall was built is over the location. It's relatively quiet, the location is good and it's at a gateway between different parts of the universe."
Karanzen's face went red. Emily was afraid he'd lunge at Dion, but he stayed in place.
"It's your job, isn't it, Officer?" Dion said to him. "You guard the abyss which is in the center of the mall. The management knows it and wanted the mall built for reasons of their own. They seem to think people shouldn't know what is in the middle. Well, I do. I know my parents are being held there. I want them out, but I have to visit the elemental grandmasters before I can get them out of here."
"I want all of you out of here!" Karanzen said bringing down his fist on the table. "You have caused enough trouble for me today. I don't need some smart-mouth kids coming inside my territory messing things up. Now get out of here before I change my mind and call the police!"
They all stood up and walked out the door.
"You stay put!" Karanzen yelled at Dion as he reached the door. "The other two can go, but I want to talk to you."
Dion walked back inside and shut the door behind him. He returned to the chair where he'd sat.
Officer Karanzen sat back on his chair and glared at Dion. Then he began to change. His form broke up into a large cloud with eyes and teeth floating in it. Within seconds, the cloud had filled the other side of the desk and Dion could see numerous insects and flies swarming inside it. The cloud merged into a pair of eyes, which stared down at him and focused.
Dion had expected something like this. Karanzen was showing him his latest form, or as much as he could on this plane. The cloud of insects continued to buzz with all manner of wasps and bees. He saw it was made up of things that stung and bite. This was how Karanzen scared the stuffing out of troublesome kids he'd picked up inside the mall. One look at what was behind the surface of him and no one was ever the same again. Dion doubted the officer had done this too many times, but it was effective. However, Dion was aware of his true form and knew he couldn't hurt him physically without bring down the wrath of the mall managers.
The cloud began to coalesce again and soon Karanzen was back to his human form. He sat back on his hands and smiled as Dion, assured he had put a bad scare into the young man.
"So you show me your true self?" Dion said to him. "What am I, some kid with a dog-eared copy of The Egyptian Book of the Dead? Seriously, officer, I would expect better from you. Can I go now?"
"Out of here!" he screamed. "Get out of my office now!"
"No problem, Officer. And don't worry, your little secret is safe with me." He shut the door behind him and heard books flying across the room, hitting the walls.
"I think we need to go outside," Dion said to Lilly and Emily as they left the security offices.
"What happened in there?" Emily asked. "I can't believe they are going to let those monsters go."
"They will discipline the cleaners," Dion said to her. "Don't worry about that. He's more afraid of you talking than anything else. The cleaners weren't ever supposed to do what they did."
Outside the mall they found a fountain, sat on a bench next to it and watched the water spray. It was a few minutes before Dion said anything.
"Whoever built this mall wants its location quiet," he said. "I wouldn't be surprised if the ghouls get fired over this. There are plenty of other earth elementals they can bring in here to do the job of taking care of this place. I'm sure there are plenty of gnomes and trolls who would be glad to move in and do the job."
"Why do you think they wanted to trade the map?" Lilly asked. She had the pack to one side of the ground and her foot was resting on it."
"They realized what they did after Emily was grabbed. They needed something to use to justify it and the map was the only thing they knew about. One of them figured out what it was after they ditched it. They found out we had it when we went down to the subbasement. They decided to make a trade, but tried to use a changeling instead of the real Emily."
"I could still be down there," she said, her body shivering. "You have no idea how scary it was down there. I never want to go anywhere near that mall again. I'm not sure if I'll ever want to go around any mall in the future."
"This one is different," Dion told her. "It's built to be the junction of several planes. I don't know exactly why it was built here, but my parents suspected the reason."
"You haven't talked much about them," Emily said. "Did they have the same powers as you do?"
"Don't think of it as powers," Dion told her. "Think of it as talent. Dad had Air and Fire; mother had Earth and Water. I think I might be the first in generations to have all four elements with the possibility of gaining the fifth."
"Will we be able to get back inside?" Lilly asked him.
"Officer Karanzen didn't threaten to keep us out, so I guess the answer is yes. We'll still be watched. He tried to scare me inside his office, but he found out I don't scare easy."
"I'm scared enough," Emily finally spoke up. "I'm going home. Lilly, you can stay here with him, but I want to get out of here. Call me later and let me know how everything turned out."
Emily grabbed her purse and waltzed down the parking lot. In a few minutes, they saw her driving away in her car.
"Can't say I blame her," Lilly said. "After being kidnapped by ghouls and hauled underground. I don't think they did anything to her, but still...."
"They didn't because they wanted to use her as a bargaining chip. Other people captured by them weren't so lucky. I don't know who thought it was a good idea to bring them here, but in retrospective, it was a dumb plan."
They strolled across the outside of the parking lot and stopped to look at the new theater, which was placed outside the mall a few months ago. This theater had two whole screens and sported a big marquee out front with the name of two popular films. One had something to do with sharks that ate people and the other the exploits of an ambulance crew in Hollywood. Lilly didn't think either of them looked interesting.
"You ever go to the movies?" she asked Dion, her hand slipping casually into his. Lilly felt herself grown attracted to the strange man and really wanted to help him find his parents. She didn't really know what she was doing right now, but wanted to see it through. It was almost like being inside a made-for-TV movie. At any minute, she expected there to be a commercial break.
"Not too often," he said, securing her hand in his. "But I never liked the smell of popcorn. Mom and dad took me a few times when I was smaller. Since they disappeared and I moved in with my aunt and uncle, I don't get out that much. I spend most of my free time in the libraries, trying to find out who is behind the mall and what secrets it might hold."
Lilly turned and looked back at the mall. "You really wouldn't think it could be such a mysterious place. Looks like any other mall from the outside. But according to you, it's the home to all kinds of elementals."
"One of the reasons it was built was to lure and trap them," he explained. "They might fire the ghouls from their jobs as cleaners, but they'll still be there, just doing some work where they don't have contact with the humans. Whoever built the mall wants the different elementals to stay put. I don't know what they're planning, but I'm sure they need all the power the elementals possess to make it happen."
"What else can you do with fire elementals?" she asked him. "I like the demonstration you did this afternoon. Can you do another?"
"I guess. Hand me the lantern," he told her.
Lilly picked it out of her bag and passed it to him. Dion took the lantern in his hand and activated the ignition switch. Soon, a small flame was burning inside the lantern. He watched it, touched the lens of the lamp with one hand, and carefully unscrewed it. As the sun's rays began to hide behind the trees, which lined the parking lot, trees that were very new and supplied by a local nursery, he removed the lens and sat it on the ground.
Lilly watched with fascination.
The flame inside the lantern was burning a bright blue color. Dion turned down the regulator on the lamp and let it burn intensely hot, so hot Lilly could feel the heat from where she sat. He reached inside the lamp and placed his finger on the flame.
Lilly jumped back in fear. But he wasn't injured in the least bit. Dion withdrew his hand and held it up to Lilly for her to examine.
On the end of his index finger, a blue flame danced up and down his hand. The flame moved with its own intelligence and seemed to have a will of its own. She watched the flame form into the shape of a man and, as Dion turned it over, the flame danced around in a circle in his palm. The flame began to dance faster and faster, soon it was a large flame, which appeared to engulf his entire hand.
"How do you do that without getting burnt?" Lilly asked him.
"It trusts me," Dion said. "And I trust in it."
Dion placed the fire elemental on the ground and let it dance over the green grass. Nothing was burnt beneath it, but the flame grew larger still. Lilly sat there in wonder as it increased in size, larger than she could possibly imagine. The flame took on the form of a lizard and walked around the ground beneath them, exploring its world. She turned and looked at Dion.
He made a few passes in the air and mumbled some words that didn't appear to be in English, and the fire elemental stopped its motion. As Dion spread out his hands, the fire creature began to shrink in size. Soon it was down to the size of a small flame. Dion reached over to pick it up. The flame jumped into his palm and he took it back over to the lantern, where he returned it. The flame burned a brilliant blue again; he reattached the lens to the lantern, then reached down and turned it off.
The flame was gone.
"That is one of the most beautiful things I have ever seen," Lilly said.
She looked up at his brown eyes and kind face. Lilly felt something stir inside her. Where had this man been all her life? She was sick and tired of boys who would try to tell her anything to get what they wanted from her. She'd never fallen for their idiotic claims. She had one guy who took her to the drive-in telling her he was in love with her. "No," she had told him, "you are in love with it." She'd left the car and phoned her parents at the concession stand who picked her up an hour later.
"You told me you inherited most of your ability from your family," she said to Dion as they walked outside the mall hand-in-hand. "How does that work?"
"My paternal grandparents were Auriel and Raphela Bach," he explained to her. "Grandfather had the ability to work with the earth element, and grandmother the air element. On my mother's side of the family, my grandparents were Gabe and Michael Briluth. Grandfather Briluth had the power of water and grandmother the power of fire."
"When my father was born," he continued, "he inherited the power of earth and air. When my mother was born, she inherited the ability to work fire and water elementals. And I inherited all four abilities."
The mall was built on what had been a farmer's field, so there was no need to chop down very many trees. The landscapers arrived one day unseen and set up their plans as the heavy machinery worked to dig the foundation. It was a big event when it happened and the town had no special ground breaking ceremony. When the shovel was symbolically pushed into the ground from the builder, it became so hot the he dropped it. This should have been the first warning something wasn't quite right with the mall. No one thought much about it and the construction continued on as planned.
The first section to be built was the large clock in the center of the mall. The clock tower rose above the level over everything. It was seen all over the landscape. It was the first thing anyone noticed as they approached. The tower housed the administration offices of the mall, but, oddly enough, there didn't seem to be any way inside it. The architect explained to the building codes inspector later that the doors would be installed at a future date. A few envelopes with enormous sums of money had allowed the plans to be approved.
The night watch on the site quit after the first week. He claimed there were weird 'things' that roamed it at night and he wanted out. After the building crews noted the construction materials were never bothered, they quit looking for night watchmen. Unknown to them, a few trucks had appeared one night carrying thieves who wanted the building supplies. They never returned. No one ever went to steal from the building location again.
The mall had a series of boxes buried all over the site, but few people knew about them. Every month, for a period of four, someone would make an appearance in the early morning hours, just before the workers arrived, dig a deep hole in the ground and plant a box. They would make sure the previous boxes were not disturbed and continued on their way. Each box continued something, which fixed that part of the mall to an element. Since they would be covered by tons of dirt and concrete, there was little concern the boxes would be disturbed.
"My grandparents on my father's side of the family came over from the old country almost a hundred years ago," Dion continued. "My father came along late in life. They were in their fifties when he was born and he was the only child. They told me there were all kinds of innuendo as to who his parents really were, but he was just late coming along. A change of life baby, if you will. They felt he might inherit one of their abilities, but it turned out he had both. When he was just a baby, they had him out in the stroller and a gust of breeze would blow every time he wanted the bottle. When he got older, he would play in the sand box and cause sand castles to rise out of the ground. Scared the crap out of the neighborhood kids, he once told me."
Lilly looked up at him with attentive eyes.
"We've been element workers in our family for generations. No one knows where the talent originates. But we have it. Hundreds of years ago, people would come to us for help. To get a wind to send a ship out to sea, bring the rain down, start a fire, or just make the soil churn so that it would be fertile. Every now and then, one of us inherits the power of several elements... but it's rare. So far, I'm the only one who has inherited all four elements. And I don't know of any of us who has the ability to work the fifth element."
Dion stopped and turned towards Lilly.
"I was taught from an early age to keep quiet about my abilities. The last thing my parents wanted was to see me in a scientific lab or prison camp. It's not easy holding it back. My dad talked about the time some bully pushed him on the playground at school and he almost had the earth swallow him up. The kid was up to his neck and going down when dad forced him to apologize. The school claimed it was a sinkhole and filled it in, but dad and the other kids knew better. He was never bothered again."
"My mother almost burnt down the house when she was a toddler. She found out the elementals were fun to play with and made a whole bunch of fire spirits dance. By the time her dad unleashed a rainstorm inside the house, the kitchen table was on fire. She was like my dad, a double elemental worker. When she became old enough to date, one of her boyfriends tried to get a little too familiar with her and found himself under a rainstorm for two hours. He couldn't understand why only he was under the cloud that drenched him and no one else."
"My maternal grandparents also came here from the old country in the Balkan Mountains. There are entire villages of elemental workers over there, or at least there were before the wars broke out. We're scattered all over the world now and I think it's better that way. It helps us survive and we don't have to worry about bothering each other. You have too many elemental workers in a given area they can start getting on each other's nerves. It's a miracle we marry each other, but it works out better that way, I'm told. I don't know much about my great-grandparents, but I'm told only the husband in each union was an elemental worker. It's the way it normally happens."
"A lot of time the wife or husband doesn't know their bride or groom is an elemental worker, but they find out later. It's a nice talent to have around the house and we learn how to make it work for the other. I've met a few families where the wife was an elemental worker and it doesn't cause any issues. My other aunt and uncle, for instance. My other aunt is my mother's sister and is a fire worker. She uses her ability to keep the house warm if the furnace isn't working. I wish you could use the ability nonstop, but it tends to wear you out."
"My parents taught me how to control the elementals when I was very young. You start with small abilities, such as what you just saw with the fire elemental. Only an Elemental Grandmaster can confer you full abilities and they have to see proof you know what you are doing. It's why I need to find the Elemental Grandmasters here in the mall. Only they can give me the permission to use my abilities. Until then, they're only good for small tricks... like knocking over cards."
"How did you parents meet?" Lilly asked him.
"They were introduced by each other's family. Where they come from in the old country, arranged marriages are common. Since double elemental workers are so rare, the elders decided they should marry to see if a full elemental worker could be produced. I know it sounds like I was the product of a breeding program, but my parents have always loved each other. When they found out I had all four abilities, there was a flurry of interest in the community of elemental workers. They hadn't had someone with my talents in hundreds of years. They've seldom had a person who could work the fifth element and I think the elders hope I'll be the one."
"You keep talking about this fifth element," Lilly said. "Tell me more about it."
"It's the aether, the force which binds it all together. It's the root of the power of fire. You can do all kinds of transformations with it if you have the ability. From what I understand, there have only been a few of us who can work this element. You need to have the ability to work all four before the fifth can even be attempted. It's why they have such interest in me. If I can work that element, it will be a huge break-through."
They walked a little further, hand in hand, and watched the sun set some more.
Lilly couldn't believe she had spent the entire day with Dion; her parents would want some kind of accounting when she returned. However, for the time being, she didn't really care. The important thing was that they were together and he'd revealed his abilities to her. Lilly had always known the world was full of magic, but she didn't have any way to prove it. Now she did. And his hand felt good around hers.
"We need to figure out a way back in there," Dion said. "It will close soon and I have to reach the Earth Element Grandmaster. We were so close several times, but it doesn't count unless I reach her and she bestows the ability on me to use the earth element. If she doesn't, I'll never be able to do more than party tricks."
"So all these incantations and spells really do work?" she asked. "I saw you make some passes in the air when the fire elemental appeared."
"Look," Dion said, his face growing serious, "this isn't something from a Hollywood movie. All that nonsense you see on TV, forget it. These are very powerful forces I can manipulate and I only do it because I have their trust. Try to use an earth elemental to find a buried treasure and you'll have a mine collapse on you. Walking on water can be accomplished, but it's no parlor trick. You have no idea the level of concentration it takes me to do the simplest of things. So just forget what you might have heard about flying broomsticks."
"I'm sorry," Lilly said, looking apolitically at the ground.
"No need to apologize," he said, "it's one of the reasons we don't let just anyone know about our abilities. I'm aware of all kinds of elementals. Most people aren't. And it's good that the average person doesn't know about the air elemental flying through his house or the fire one dancing in her fireplace. If they could see what I do, they might go crazy. You ever wonder why insane people go around talking to things that aren't there? It's because they can see them and you can't. Believe me; most people are better off not seeing them."
"My father knew a man who realized one day dad was an elemental worker. He wanted to use it for profit, which is something strictly forbidden. When he found out dad wouldn't help him, he decided to learn on his own. He went to some disreputable place that offered to teach him the basics for a large fee. The guy's car caught on fire with him inside while he was on his way to close some stockbroker deal. The police never did find out what caused the fire and there were people who thought it was some kind of mobster hit. I think the elementals found out what he was up to and struck back. They can overact in a hurry if you don't treat them right. The last thing you want is a creature made out of fire angry at you."
"So what do you plan to do with all this ability when you have it bestowed on you? You can't make money with it, what good can it do you?"
"I can help people," he said. "Especially if I can grandmaster the aether. There are all kinds of things I can do for people who need help and they never have to know their benefactor."
"But enough about me," Dion told her. "I don't know a lot about you. So where are you planning to go after leaving this town? I thought I heard you say something about college?"
"International studies," she said. "I'd like to be a diplomat, or the wife of one. I think that would allow me to travel the world and see places. I've always dreamed of attending parties with the rich and famous."
Dion looked at her for a few seconds and returned his gaze to the mall. "I don't think that is a sure thing. What happens if you spend all that money on college and can't get a job afterwards?"
"Shouldn't be too hard," Lilly replied with assuredness. "I mean, there is a test you can take that will get you a government job if you graduate high enough in your class."
"I wouldn't count on that test being around forever. Something tells me it's going to go up on the chopping block someday."
"Not all of us can do what you do," she snapped back. "Or is it possible to learn these things on your own without having your car burst into fire?"
"You can," he said calmly. "But it takes a lifetime of study. I've only been able to do what you saw because my parents made sure I knew how at an early age. I tell you, these elementals can be dangerous. They don't reason the same way humans do. Look at those ghouls, they may pass for human, but they're far from it. Anyway, I have to figure out a way inside that mall without confronting Officer Karanzen. I could just waltz inside there, but he might have some of his minions on the watch for me. I don't need any further trouble from him."
"Why does he have it in for you so much?" Lilly asked. "It wasn't you that kidnapped Emily."
"I'm an unknown factor to him. I caused some disruption inside the mall by being there and he didn't understand why. He worries that I might upset the delicate balance inside the mall between all the elements and he would be out of a job. So, by his reasoning, the best thing he can do is keep me out. But I have to get back inside if I am to reach the Earth Element Grandmaster and acquire my full powers."
The sun was blotted out by a band of clouds as they passed overhead. Lilly looked up and noticed them, realizing that the clouds were nowhere else, just over them to block the rays of the sun. It became chilly; she felt the air drop a perceptible level of degrees and hugged her sides as a slight wind began to blow from the north. Something changed and she knew it had to do with Dion. Since meeting him earlier in the day, she was ready for any strange occurrence.
He seemed to attract eeriness to him.
She felt odd, but not in a way she'd felt before. Something was stirring in the air and it had to do with the intersection of Dion and the mall. There was a feeling of two sources of energy struggling to find a common way to talk. Yet, it was not a dangerous sensation; she felt the power in the air was simply the forces trying to communicate. It was two different languages in an attempt to find a common way to speak. Whatever the mall contained was struggling to contact Dion. She watched him turn his eyes in the direction of the mall and cock one ear as if he wanted to hear something.
Lilly looked up, but the clouds were not storm clouds overhead. Nerveless, they could turn that way in a second. She realized the elements had them both under close observation. They wanted to know what Dion's intention was and how she figured into the picture. Lilly felt electricity spark into her soul. There was something gathering in the air and she didn't know what it was.
An elderly couple began to walk up to them from a distance. Lilly thought they were just another pair of old retired people who wanted to go the same direction as them. However, they were very intent on reaching them. She watched them slowly walk up the path to the fountain where they stood. They didn't walk so much as glide across the pavement. They wore clothes that were out of style twenty years ago. Finally, they reached Dion and Lilly. They stood facing them.
Then Lilly noticed something else: they didn't breathe. There was no rise and fall of their chests, nor did they make the sounds of breathing.
"Grandfather?" Dion said. "Grandmother? What are you doing here?"
"We've come to help, Dion," the old woman said to him. "You are in great danger if you don't go back in the mall and find the elemental grandmasters. Your parents were captured by the mall builders. They are held in the tower. To get them out you must obtain full elemental powers and only the Elemental Grandmasters can grant those to you. We can help you out, but we are not allowed to come back very often. We are here to let you know it is important you return to the mall immediately."
"They fear you, Dion," said the old man, "because you may be the one who can work the fifth element. We've never seen anyone do it before this time. If you develop the ability, The Tower will no longer with have dominion over the aether. And they want to keep that power very much. They know you have tracked your parents here and plan to free them. Now you must return to the mall."
"But grandfather, grandmother," he said. "This is too much for me. Isn't there someone else who can learn the use of the fifth element? I just want my parents back."
"No one is safe so long as The Tower controls the aether," the old woman said. "Please, hurry as the sun is going down and you haven't much time. The mall will close in a few hours."
The old man and woman turned and walked back the way they had come. Lilly watched them depart. The cloud moved away from the sun and the fading light returned to warm her and Dion. Soon the old couple was no longer there and the mysterious sensation she had felt was gone.
"My father's parents," he said. "I never got to know them very well. They passed over when I was very young."
A chill went through Lilly. "We just saw ghosts?" she asked.
"Call them what you will, all I know is they were allowed to return to help me, and for that I am grateful."
He turned and looked at the mall. "Guess I have no choice. We need to get back inside. But first I want to show you some things."
"What? What do you mean?"

Chapter 9

"You can learn the basics about manipulating elements in a few minutes," Dion explained. "If something happens to me, you might need to summon one or two. So let me show you how to work an elemental on a very small scale."
Dion sat down on a bench with Lilly and showed her how to attract the attention of an earth elemental with the right words and signs. Initially, it wasn't much good and she failed to cause a plant to sprout. Deciding the best way to do it was to show her how to attract the attention of a basic earth elemental, Dion soon had her create a little homunculus on the ground that walked for a few paces before falling apart.
Lilly broke out in a big smile and looked up at Dion.
"It's a beginning," he said. "I need to show you more, but I don't have time. Just be careful with what I've demonstrated. These things can get out of hand if you don't know what you're doing."
They stood up from the bench and began walking back to the mall. Most of the traffic from it was from the opposite direction. It was toward the end of the day and the shoppers were headed home. Plenty of women and men with clean shopping bags and fresh purchases. It was amazing to see the endless display of consumers.
Dion stopped and stood outside the mall looking at the glass entrance doors. "I really don't want to go back in there," he told Lilly.
"Why not?"
"I'm not certain of myself. This is a lot for one person to do. I should have help from the elders, but they haven't offered any. I need some kind of backup plan before I go inside that place."
He put one hand on the wall and rested. Lilly stood behind him with one hand on his back. She could feel his lean muscles under the shirt he wore and took in the sensation of the touch. She wished there was some way she could give him comfort, some way she could make him find his parents without the need to go inside and seek them out. But she had no way to do it unless she too was an elemental worker. Right now, she only knew what he'd taught her. Perhaps later, he could show her more...
"Have you ever faced something so horrible in your life?" he asked Lilly. "Have you ever been in a situation where any decision you made could turn out bad? I worry I'm approaching this whole thing wrong and I need guidance. But the only guidance I get is from my dead grandparents and they don't seem to stick around very long."
"At least I can smoke outside," they heard the voice of Edward sound behind them. "No one seems to mind pipes so far. This tobacco is beastly; I need to get a better variety."
They turned to see the funny little Englishman in a tailored business suit, with a pipe in one hand. He inhaled the fumes one final time and placed it back in his pocket. "They say it will be the death of me, you know," Edward announced to them. "Tobacco. Can't understand why. I thought it was invented by the natives in this country and they seemed to be a healthy people."
"You have a way of appearing at the most charming times," Dion said. "Did you know that that floor polisher almost had me arrested for theft?"
"But it worked, didn't it? The ghouls couldn't stand the noise created by it. They are sensitive to light and noise. I almost gave you a camera with a flash to take down there, but I felt it would be better to let you have the floor polisher since the operation of it was simple. By the time you solved the method of using a flash on a camera, it would have been too late."
"It did work to keep the ghouls at bay," Lilly agreed. "And the ghouls had mirrorshades."
"So now have you shown up to give me some wisdom?" Dion asked.
"I can't dispense what I lack," Edward laughed.
"Then what ever shall I do?" Dion asked with a fake southern accent.
"Both of you are talking in circles," Lilly said. "Edward, why can't you just get to the point?"
"Because it would be too easy. And the longer I drag this encounter out, the longer I get to wear this suit and smoke my pipe. It's the little things you miss once you've passed over. So many things..."
"You have never told us why you are involved," Dion snapped to him. "Why didn't they send Isaac Newton or Julius Cesar to help out?"
"Well, Mr. Newton would spend the entire time tracing out sun patterns. And what good is Julius Cesar without an army? I'm sorry, you are stuck with me. I made many mistakes the first time around. This is their way of giving me a chance to fix what I broke."
"We're going to walk through those doors and Officer Karanzen and his good squad will be waiting for us," Dion made clear. "What do I do when that happens? I need to get to the Earth Element Grandmaster and have her blessing. I can't approach the next element grandmaster until I have done it."
"You must be ready to let him know there are people with your best interests in mind. Don't worry, the moment he tries to give you some trouble, I'm sure he'll see the logic of backing away from you. It's not Karanzen you have to worry about; it's the earth elementals who don't want you obtaining full power. The ghouls in particular. They are furious you've made them look bad to the mall owners and will do everything they can to keep you from reaching the elemental grandmaster."
"Are they going to pull that cleaning crew stunt again?" Lilly asked. "Because I don't want to deal with it again. Our friend Emily will never come back to this mall and I think she may be scared for life."
"They'll try something else this time and they may be very direct how they do it. I would watch out because you have no idea where they will strike. And, rest assured, the security guards will be nowhere to be found if you need their help."
Dion looked at the doors and took Lilly by the hand. "Okay," he said to them both. "I can do this. It looks like I'm the only one who can get my parents back, and prevent even worse things from happening."
Edward raised a hand. "You can't even conceive what you are up against. I would tell you more, but they only let me share so much information. But I'm sure you'll come through, dear boy. In fact, you must...".
Edward pulled out his pocket watch again and looked at it. "Oh, lovely, time is up. You two take care and I will see you again."
Then he vanished.
Dion and Lilly walked through the glass doors into the entrance to the mall again. Once again they walked down the corridor lined with shops on each side and slowly approached their destination.
For a few minutes, they thought it might be possible to go upstairs and find the pharmacy where the elemental grandmaster had her shop. Dion and Lilly strolled into the main concourse and saw nothing. There were no security guards, no ghouls, nothing that appeared out of the ordinary. Just a bunch of shoppers finishing their activities for the day. Mothers pushing children in strollers. Groups of kids walking down the main hall, looking in the windows of stores, and men in front of a TV display who drooled over the big game on the latest twenty-five inch console.
It was the picture of domestic tranquility.
They walked toward the escalator with every intention to take it to the second floor where the pharmacy was located.
Lilly had never liked escalators and was happy using the stairs. She'd heard a story about a kid who got his foot caught in one and the ambulance company had to be called out to free him. From that day on, she'd avoided them. As a young kid, she froze when trying to go down one and had to have someone help her get on the track. There was something unnerving about escalators that worried her. It was as if by climbing on one you placed your future in the hands of an inhuman machine. It wasn't something she wanted to do and couldn't understand why anyone would do it. She felt the same way about elevators, although for some reason they didn't bother her quite as much.
Just as they walked up to the escalator, two of Karanzen's guards blocked their path. Dion and Lilly turned to the other sides only to see them blocked by his men as well. They turned to walk back when they found Officer Karanzen approaching with two more.
"Just couldn't take my warning could you?" he said to them. "I thought I made it clear you weren't supposed to be back in the mall."
"What have I done to be banned from it?" Dion asked. "You never did spell out any charges."
"First of all," Karanzen snarled. "There is the matter of the floor polisher you took without authorization. Then there are the other items, which have mysteriously disappeared while you've been in the mall. I won't get into the disruption of you being here creates. I don't need it and I don't want it in my mall."
"You keep saying 'my mall'," a voice said to their right. "You seem to think this mall is your property."
It was Dion's grandparents.
They had, once again, appeared from nowhere and were right next to Officer Karanzen. The look of shock on his face told Dion all he needed. Even the security guards backed up a bit. His grandfather and grandmother had a presence that made it not wise to cross them. Lilly had felt it a bit when they'd appeared outside the mall, but now it was on full display.
"Major Auriel Bach?" Karanzen said to him. "I know you. What are you doing here? I thought you were--"
"Gone very far away?" Dion's grandfather said. "Gone further than you could ever fathom? I'm the young man's grandfather and I understand you have some issue with him."
"He's causing a problem in the mall. I'm hired to make sure the mall remains safe. I don't need anyone here who causes problems."
"Problems?" Dion's grandfather said. "The way you handled the problems at the Chosin Reservoir? You're lucky I let you keep your command after that happened."
The faces of Dion's grandfather and Karanzen faded into a cloud as Dion saw the security chief in a distant land in a military uniform. A soldier was leaning on a tank in a snow-covered landscape as he poured over a map. Karanzen was on a radio in a desperate attempt to communicate with someone.
"I said we're lost!" Karanzen yelled into the apparatus. "Can you give me the coordinates we're supposed to have? I have five men with a tank and me. We need to get back to the main column. Look, I know Chinese troops are in these hills. They'd love to find someone like us who don't know where they are. Hello? Hello?"
He slammed the radio telephone receiver down on the tank's side and swore. Karanzen, wearing a captain's uniform, looked at the hills around him. It was getting dark. On top of the tank, an enlisted man held a pair of binoculars and scanned the horizon.
"Can't see a thing, sir," he told him. "No movement anywhere. If there are Chinese Army in these hills they are doing the best job of concealment anyone could...."
The man with binoculars fell away from the tank as the air filled with bullets. The bounced off the tank and kicked up dirt from the ground. Karanzen dropped the radio and ran behind the tank, as he tried to take cover from the rifle fire. Two other men were with him.
"Can you see how many?" he asked the man to his right. They were strapping on their helmets as fast as they could. At least one of them carried a carbine.
"Could be four, could be five," the man said. "Hard to tell and they're shooting out of the sun to make it difficult to spot. For all we know it could be the entire Red Chinese Army out there."
Then the fog faded again and Dion saw his grandfather facing Officer Karanzen. But the security chief had lost his composure. No longer was he the fearsome defender of the mall but a man who'd just had a secret he fought to suppress revealed to people. Dion looked around and wondered how many of them had the same vision he'd just seen. Lilly looked at him with confusion, which meant she'd seen it too. The rest of the guards just stood there, as if nothing had changed. But the tension between Dion's grandparents and the rough security officer was now finished.
"So long as he doesn't cause any more trouble," Karanzen said to Dion's grandfather and walked off. He stopped three steps away and turned to his security guards.
Dion's grandparents turned and walked back the way they came. Soon, they were gone, vanished as they had done before.
"Be sure to keep an eye on him. I don't want those two out of your sight." Karanzen moved away toward the rear of the mall in the direction of his office. Whatever had transpired between him and Dion's grandfather left a powerful impression.
The other security guards began to move away and head toward their posts. All except for the ones who were stationed in this part of the mall. They walked back and kept their gaze on Dion and Lilly.
"We need to find someplace to get away from them," Dion said to Lilly. "Is there some restaurant or store we can duck into for the time being?"
"I'm not sure what is around this part of the mall. There are a few places I can think of, but not many. Wait, what's that?"
A small store with a modest front proclaimed itself to be "The Time Shop". A large watch swung from the bracket over it and another sign talked about daily specials. At first, she thought it was a restaurant, but then Lilly thought it might be a place that sold watches. It didn't look too big from the outside and she speculated it might only be a thousand square feet on the inside. Nerveless, it looked to be a good way to get out from the watchful eyes of Karanzen's men.
"Let's go here," she said, pointing to the store. "They won't follow us inside and they can't wait outside forever. Eventually, they'll have to move elsewhere."
"Yes, at least it will give us a chance to plan on what to do next," Dion said and followed her into the store. They pushed the door open and went inside.
A lady behind the counter greeted them the moment they were beyond the door. "Hello," she said, "thank you for coming into The Time Shop. Did you have a year in mind?"
"A year?" Dion said and turned to look at the inside of the store. As far as he could see, there was only the one counter and another glass door on the other side. Nothing was on display at the counter and all he could see was the lady, who appeared to be in her thirties, a cash register and the glass top. There were no calendars, small items for sale, or anything else.
"I'd like to know the future," he joked to her.
"That is a little bit expensive. We can't send you directly to your future as our insurance won't cover it. I can send you to another future if that's what you want."
Dion looked at Lilly and shrugged. "Did you have any one in mind, Lilly?"
"Haha, thirty years sounds good to me," she said. "Exactly what do you sell here?"
"Time," the lady told her. "Most people want the past, but some need to know the future. How much money did you want to spend?'
Dion laid some bills on the counter. She looked at them and shook her head. "I can't give you much for that little amount. Is thirty minutes fine?"
"Sure," Dion said, still uncertain what they'd been told and agreed to today.
"Please sign these forms," the lady behind the counter said and handed both of them clipboards with papers on them. They looked at the forms and found them to be in a foreign writing neither one could read. Dion hesitated to get the seer stone out of his pocket. It had to rest on top of the document for it to work the first time. But to bring it out would reveal that he had one.
"How can I sign something I can't read?" Lilly asked her.
"Look, do you want the thirty minutes or not? I have someone buzzing to come back. Make up your mind because there are paying customers we have to take care of first. I don't have time for this."
Lilly and Dion quickly signed the papers and handed them back to the worked up lady.
"Portal is good for thirty minutes," she informed them. "You have that much time on the other side and then you have to come back. Don't miss your portal time because if you do it's not our fault if you're stuck where I send you. There is a penalty on people who miss their portal time and neither of you two looks like the kind who can rack up a lot of temporal debt. I'm just giving you a fair warning."
"Okay," Dion said. "Now what?"
"What you came in here for." The lady sighed. "I wish they'd find me a better post. This year doesn't cut it."
She reached down under the counter and clicked a switch. The glass door on the other side opened to reveal a man walking into the room with a briefcase. He was dressed in loud clothes. He let out a huge sigh and turned to the woman.
"That was a little bit longer than I wanted to be there," he told her. "Next time I'll pick someplace familiar for the trip."
"Just schedule it in advance if you want to go more than five hundred years in either direction," she said. "Now please step aside, sir, as I have more people who need to use the door."
She turned to Dion and Lilly.
"Your turn," the woman announced. "Remember, you only have thirty minutes so don't wander too far. Time is of the essence."

Chapter 10

Dion and Lilly walked through the door and heard it shut behind them. Dion turned around to look at the door and discovered it had turned to a wooden one on the other side. While he tried to figure out where they were, Lilly stepped forward and glanced over their new surroundings.
They were no longer in the mall. If this was the mall, it resembled nothing like one she'd ever seen before. She turned and saw a small double-paned window with sunlight streaming through it. The smell of bleach came from a bathroom to one side. The small room they were in was tastefully decorated in used furniture with pastel paintings on the walls. The only thing odd about their surroundings was the door, which they'd used to enter the room. Over the top of it, the words "Supplies" was written.
Lilly smelled the intense scent of coffee through the air. This had to be some kind of eating establishment, but she had no idea what kind.
She and Dion walked down the hall connecting the room to the front of the place and found another counter. Over the counter was a menu of sorts in chalk on a blackboard about all the different kinds of coffee you could purchase. The prices seemed outrageous to her, but it could be that the coffees were rare and not found in many restaurants.
What kind of place was this?
Dion walked up to the counter and looked at the woman behind it. She didn't resemble the lady on the other side the least bit... This woman had glasses, was dark in complexion and had her hair tied in rows across her head.
"You two are from The Time Shop," the lady said to them. "Aren't you?"
"We were just in there a few minutes ago," Lilly said. "I don't know how we ended up here."
"I can always tell. It doesn't matter which direction they come, always something that gives them away. How long are you here for?"
"We paid for thirty minutes," Dion told her.
"Then you better stay close. That door you came through will only take you back a half hour after you came. Any other time and it takes you to the closet. I had it installed a few months ago when someone contacted me from the corporation. They pay me enough to keep it so that it cancels out my utility bill."
"So what kind of place is this?" Lilly asked.
"It's a coffee shop in Chicago."
"Chicago?" Dion said. "But we were in Ohio!"
"The way it works is the door takes you somewhere other than where you are going to be or where you have been. I guess you'll never be around Chicago for any length of time or you wouldn't be here now. Did she ask you how many years you were paying her for?"
"I told her thirty," Lilly said, "but really, I had no idea..."
"I keep telling those people they should make it clear what people are buying," the lady behind the new counter grumbled. "Too many people end up here clueless, and it's not my job to straighten them out. How much money do you have left?"
Dion opened his wallet and showed her the bills.
"The problem is the date on the currency," she told him. "I can't use the cash because my bank would contact the FBI about counterfeit bills. I don't need those kinds of complaints. So do you drink coffee?"
"Here," the woman said before they could give their answer, sliding them two cups. "These are on the house. Milk and sugar is behind you. I recommend staying inside this place, as you don't want to be trapped outside when the door activates.
"Looks like we have another fifteen minutes," Dion said as he looked at his watch. "Anything we need to know about where we are?"
"Other than the fact that you're in Chicago? Not really. We're near the university, and no, they still don't have a football team. So I get to avoid the booze-happy crowds that come with them. I'm slow today because it's between terms, but the traffic should pick up next month."
"You take any cream in yours?" Lilly asked Dion as she poured milk into her coffee.
"I like mine black, thank you," he said.
They went and sat down at a table.
"Next time I walk into a store I don't know," he said to Lilly, "I will ask exactly what I'm paying money to have done or buy."
"Look on the bright side. It got us away from Karanzen's goons for a while. I think you spent your money well."
"But it means less time to find the Elemental Grandmaster when we return." Dion reached into his blue jean jacket and pulled a piece of paper out of one of the pockets. "I've been looking for this a long time."
"What do you have there?" she asked.
"Nothing much, just what I have to tell the Grandmaster when I find her. She will know I'm genuine by what I say to her."
"I'd think you could make something happen and that would convince her."
"Doesn't always work that way. All kinds of people can show her little tricks and try to deceive her into thinking they are elemental workers. If she grants full power on anyone who doesn't deserve it, imagine the kind of ruckus it could cause. No, she has to know I'm someone who has spent years working toward the day when I can finally present myself to her."
Dion and Lilly chatted a bit longer, until he looked at his watch again. "Time to go."
They returned their mugs to the counter and thanked the woman. "No problem," she said. "At least you speak standard English. You would be surprised at the kind of people who come through the door. No one has ever shown the least sign of violence; I think the corporation has a way to screen them out."
Dion and Lilly walked to the door and waited a few minutes. Finally, Dion looked at his watch and announced it was time. He reached down and opened the door.
And discovered a closet on the other side.
"You think something might have gone wrong?" Lilly asked him. "I'm sure this is the door we used when we came in here."
Dion shut the door. "I might be off a little bit with my watch. I set it this morning, but it has a tendency to run a little slow." He reached over, grabbed the door handle again, and opened it. This time the room they had first used was visible on the other side. The same woman stared at them from the counter.
"Hurry up," she told them. "You're not the only people who want to use that door."
They walked on through and shut it behind them.
"Nice trip?" the first lady behind the counter said. "Did you get to see what you wanted on the other side?"
"As much as we could in thirty minutes," Lilly told her. "Coffee was expensive in Chicago."
"Oh, that place," she said. "Well, next time spend more money and you'll get to spend more time when you go. I'm sorry, but, as I said, our insurance company makes it expensive to send people in that direction. And don't even ask for dinosaurs because they won't cover it."
"I'll keep it in mind," Dion said as they headed toward the exit of store.
The two security guards were still outside. One was circling around, the other sat on at a table directly across from them. It was obvious they wouldn't allow them to travel anywhere unobserved.
"How much time do we have?" Lilly asked him. "This place will be closing soon."
"Well, we spent about...." He looked at his wristwatch. "Oh, that's funny."
"Define 'funny'." Lilly said. "I don't find much of what has taken place today very funny."
"According to my watch we were only inside that store a few minutes. I thought we spent a good half hour and then some inside there because we went to that other place. But my watch might not be working very well."
"Let's check out the clock in the tower," Lilly said, "you can see it through the skylights."
They looked up and saw that it matched the time on Dion's watch.
"Guess time has a different meaning inside that place," he said.
"The places we discover in this mall continue to amaze me. We just left a store where you can buy time and have to find a pharmacy where the pharmacist is a grandmaster of the earth element."
"I'm sure there are plenty more to be discovered," Dion said.
They continued on their way until they reached the escalator, which Dion wanted to use to get to the second floor of the mall.
"Do we really have to take this?" Lilly asked him. "These things give me butterflies in my stomach. Is there a stair case we can use someplace?"
Dion scanned the mall until he saw a staircase at one end of the concourse. "There, we can take that one." This seemed like a real good idea when the two security guards who'd followed them were busy in their direction.
Dion cut through the thinning crowd with Lilly and headed toward the stairs. The security guards kept pace with them, always making sure they were within some kind of visual range. He didn't care. As Dion had no intention of causing trouble, he didn't care what they would do if they caught up with him. The encounter Officer Karanzen had with his grandfather was enough to put him at bay for the time being. Right now, the important thing was to get to the pharmacy upstairs. They only had so much time to do it and find the Grandmaster.
They whisked up the stairs upon reaching them and turned to watch the one security guard still in pursuit keep up with them. Dion and Lilly managed to reach the top of the stairs with no incidents and continued down the upstairs concourse in the direction of the pharmacy. Dion glanced back to notice the lone security guard following at an acceptable distance. He recognized this one: it was Bayer. Naturally, the bow hunter would be the one to give pursuit. No doubt, he felt he was tracking them through a forest of some kind.
They turned the corner to head down the section of the mall to the location of the pharmacy. There were few people in this part, but it might have something to do with the lateness of the day. The mall was emptying out as the shopping day came to a close. Soon, the PA system would announce the mall closing and everyone would have to make their final purchases and leave. Including Dion and Lilly.
The bull was positioned directly in front of the pharmacy. It was large and sat on a metal stand. It was made of black plastic and offered anyone a chance to ride it for a small coin fee dropped into a slot. It was made to look dangerous and had a red mouth with blazing eyes. On its back sat the saddle anyone could try to ride. If they were so foolish.
Dion was surprised; it actually appeared to be some kind of mechanical contraption someone would place inside a mall. He'd seen all sorts of trains and toy rides kids could use in the children's' area; why shouldn't someone try to install one for adults? It might be in front of a pharmacy and would, no doubt, hurt their business, but Dion doubted it was meant to be there very long. The whole reason for this mechanical bull was to keep him from accessing the pharmacy.
"That wasn't here before," Lilly said. "What the heck is that thing? A mechanical bull for adults? Who in their right mind would want to ride something like that?"
"I don't think that bull is a ride," Dion said. "There is something not right about this thing being placed in front of my destination."
Lilly turned her head, looked at the bull several times from different angles and walked towards it. It still appeared to be made from plastic with some metal parts. Whoever created the bull did so with an adult in mind as it was too large for a child to ride. Next to the bull, on the platform it was mounted, was a box. The box had a coin slot in it with the sign "Twenty five cents to ride" on it. Lilly walked over to it and looked at the writing below the coin box.
"It's made by some company called Echo Hills Princess," she called to Dion. "I've never heard of them before, but there are plenty of companies I don't know about. Do they sound familiar to you?"
"No, but I think you should get away from that thing. I just don't like it. Strikes me as awfully suspicious being here."
"The instructions say that one quarter gives you a ride," she called out to Dion again. "They don't say how long you get. I wonder what it does?"
"Lilly, really, I would get away from it."
"Only one way to find out," she said and opened her purse. Inside she found a quarter and dropped it in the slot. She stood back and looked at the bull. "Guess we'll find out what it does."
"I don't think that was very smart, Lilly."
She stood and watched the bull. It began to move. Slow at first, it picked up speed and rocked back and forth on the metal stand where it was mounted. To her it seemed obvious: the bull was designed to be a rocking horse for adults. All it did was satisfy someone's inner cowboy for bull riding. It wouldn't toss the rider up in the air as a real bull might, but it could give them the sensation of riding one, no matter how safe it seemed.
Lilly had watched bull riding on TV. She knew this contraption in no way simulated the dangerous sport. In bull riding competitions, a rider had to stay on a bucking full-grown bull for at least eight seconds. This device merely rocked back and forth. An elderly man could sit on it with no worries. It was clearly another attempt to make money off people's desire to experience something dangerous in a safe environment.
After a few minutes, the bull quit rocking. Lilly turned back to Dion and held out her hands.
"See? Just a cheap mechanical contraption. Somebody put it here tonight, tomorrow, it will be downstairs where it will attract more traffic. Nothing to worry about."
Suddenly, the bull climbed off the metal platform and stared at both Dion and Lilly.
The security guard who'd watched them from the distance had a smile on his face when the bull first began rocking. Now he was stunned. Among the many things he'd came to expect while being a security guard under Officer Karanzen, watching a mechanical bull come to life was not one of them.
The bull made a creaking sound when it climbed down from the platform. Lilly backed up to Dion and stood next to him. This was not something she would have expected to happen. She felt her flesh creep as the plastic bull lowered its head and stared at them. It didn't blow the breath it lacked from its nostrils, which were painted on anyway, but the threat of violence was there just the same.
No one else was in this particular section of the mall. It was close to closing time and most of the shoppers were gone. This meant the bull had them to itself.
"I don't believe this," Lilly said to Dion. "Mechanical bulls just don't walk on their own."
"This one does. And it appears to be doing a very good job of it."
Their only recourse was to back up. They slowly moved backwards, but the bull matched pace with them. The security guard stayed immobile where he stood at the entrance to this section of the mall. He reached for his belt radio, but found it missing. He backed up further to make sure no one else would come down this passage. Protecting shoppers from an animated plastic bull was not something in his job description.
"How does this thing work?" Lilly asked Dion. "Is it some kind of robot that was built just to come after you?"
"It's another elemental," he told her. "The ghouls weren't successful, so whoever wants to keep me from the Earth Grandmaster's pharmacy is desperate. They've found one of these things and brought it here. They must really want me to stay away if they're willing to blow their cover by using one of this magnitude."
"What do we do?" Lilly said to Dion. "I don't think we can outrun it, can we? Do you know any place we can find a red tablecloth?"
"I don't think that will work against this one," he told her. "It has other attractors. I'm not sure what they are and we don't have time to look them up."
The bull squeaked as the plastic hooves raked across the floor. It moved in a poor simulation of a real bull, as its legs and hooves were but mere copies of the original. The bull began to walk in a pattern and Dion realized it wanted to keep them away from the rest of the mall. If it could keep them in the hall where they were right now, it could prevent their escape.
Dion grabbed Lilly and pulled her with him behind a table next to the Baron Sam's New Orleans restaurant. It was his hope that the table might be used against whatever it was that animated the plastic bull, but he had no idea if this idea would work.
He positioned the table between them and the bull. The bull didn't appear to be made from anything too substantial, but Dion worried that if it could be animated, it could do all kinds of damage. Worse, there was very little in the way of elementals he could work to counter whatever made the bull move. Other than a gust of wind, which would only annoy the thing, he could do very little.
Whoever had placed the bull in its location knew exactly what they were doing. They'd calculated Lilly's curiosity to activate it by placing a coin in the slot. By her doing so, Lilly had keyed the bull to her and him as well. He knew the ultimate plan was to take them both out by any means necessary, but all they really had to do was keep him away from the pharmacy. His adversary had calculated if Dion could be kept away from the Elemental Grandmasters, he might lose heart and cease his quest. Did he not hesitate to go into the building until his grandparents and Edward appeared? The bull was an act of desperation by whoever wanted to keep him from gaining full power. And they were on the brink of success.
Out of the restaurant, a local woman walked into the hallway, just behind Dion and Lilly. She stopped when she saw the bull on the ground. In her world, plastic bulls simply did not become animated and move on their own. This had to be some kind of sales stunt. When she left the restaurant, the bull was not in motion and she turned to see the two young people staring at it from behind the table.
"What's going on?" she asked them. "I need to get to the hospital; my shift starts in an hour. Is this some kind of new toy they're trying to sell down at Children's Outlet?"
"Don't move and stay with us," Dion told her. "Is there anyone in the restaurant when you left?"
"No, the baron was in the back working in the kitchen and I left the money on the table."
In that moment she noticed the bull move. The plastic head of the creature turned and looked at the woman who had just left the restaurant. Its painted red eyes seemed to focus on what she had about her neck. The woman, who was in her forties, portly and who possessed a fancy wedding band, turned to look back at the plastic bull.
"Isn't that amazing," she said to Dion. "They must have all kinds of electric motors inside that thing to get it to move like that. My brother-in-law works on motors like that down at the plant near Kelltering."
She had referenced an automotive factory, which employed thousands of people near a suburb of Scipio.
The creature had focused its attention on what the woman wore about her shoulders: a black necklace. Dion looked at it too and realized the necklace might be onyx, one of the blackest minerals that could be found.
"Is that an onyx necklace you're wearing?" he asked her.
"Yes, my husband gave it to me as a present last month. I really don't like it and have thought about taking it back to the place he bought it from and exchange it. I've only had it a week. I came here because I planned on taking it back, but I was distracted by the makeup department and you can't imagine how much money I spend th--"
"I'll buy it from you," Dion blurted out.
"Seriously?" she said in disbelief, "You like it that much?"
"A hundred dollars," he said, peeling out another roll from one of his other pockets in his jean jacket. "Here, count it yourself." He handed her the money, as she looked it over.
"Well, if you insist. I don't like it much and could use the cash. I'll make up some story. I knew this day would work out better than the last."
The woman took the necklace off and handed it to him. Dion handed her the cash roll and she walked away with a smile on her face.
"Where did you get that kind of money?" Lilly asked him.
"I keep a spare roll on me for emergencies," he said. "This qualified."
The plastic bull was still frozen with its gaze fixed on the onyx necklace Dion had in his hand. Dion waved it from one side to the next, the bull turning its head each time to follow the motion of the necklace.
"We have our red tablecloth," he told Lilly. "Onyx is a mineral very much loved by the earth elementals. Whatever elemental used to make the bull move, it will never overcome its desire for the mineral. That lady wandering by with the necklace was just what we needed."
"How do we use it?"
"I want you to start walking to the pharmacy. I'm going to lure the bull away with the necklace. It will follow me. Once I can find a place to isolate it, I'll find some way to bind it in place with the necklace."
"But what about you? Dion, I'm not going to leave you alone with that... thing. I can help you take it to wherever you need it to go."
"Okay, fine, but do as I say. Walk back behind me and call out if you see any place that sells tableware in the main concourse."
Lilly began to move backwards, but the animated bull had no interest in her. Its gaze was fixed to the necklace and it began to creep in the direction of it. Dion backed up with her and the huge plastic animal followed. So far, no one had noticed it other than themselves and the lady from the restaurant.
However, that was all about to change.
They continued to back out of the hallway and the plastic bull follow them. At first, no one noticed the bull as the section lacked shoppers. It was still very late in the day and the mall was within an hour of closing. The black, plastic bull continued its creaking as it walked to keep pace with them, the creature still intrigued by the sight of the onyx stones Dion wiggled in his hand. The necklace hypnotized it as they moved back. Dion did not know whether or not the person who had unleashed the elemental on the mechanical bull had given it the order to do them harm or just keep them away from the pharmacy. It didn't matter because now they were in a very bad situation.
The door to the pharmacy opened again and the owner, Athena West, the Earth Elemental Grandmaster, stepped out and looked at the bull moving at the two in front of her. She realized what was taking place and stopped. She also knew she could bind the elemental inside the bull, but it was focused on Dion and Lilly as they led it away.
"Do you want me to handle this?" she said to Dion.
"No," he told her, "I have everything under control. So long as it focuses on the stones in this necklace, it's harmless."
"I understand what you are doing," she yelled back at them, "but what are you going to do with it now that you have it?"
"I'm working on that," Dion yelled back at her.
"Maybe we should let her take care of this thing," Lilly said to Dion. "If she's the Earth Element Grandmaster, couldn't she just shut it down?"
"I'm sure she could take care of it in minutes, but if I let her do it, how will it make me look as a candidate for the full powers of the earth element? This is one way to show her I'm worthy. If I can bind this thing where it won't be able to move, then I'll have all the proof I need to show her I've mastered the final part of the training. So maybe it's a blessing in disguise."
"You still haven't stopped it from moving," Lilly reminded him. "What happens if you lose control of it? There are all sorts of people in this place who could be in danger. Lord, you might cause a panic if they see it move and realize what is happening."
"If something goes wrong, I'll let her take it over. Until then, just let me do what I can. Have you found a tableware place yet?"
Lilly looked to one side and saw a store, which featured all kinds of plates, dishes and cooking utensils. It was called "Fazi's" and was part of a national chain. It was also on the corner of the hall that merged to the main concourse. Only a few people had stopped to watch them lead the life-size plastic bull back to towards the concourse.
"I've found one," she told him. "It's right behind us."
Dion turned his head to see the sign for the store directly behind him. "Thanks, just what I was looking for."
He continued his movement backwards, but angled himself toward the entrance to the store. Dion turned around to look at the doors while continuing to hold the necklace of onyx stones in front of the advancing plastic bull. One slip-up and the creature would be capable of just about anything.
An uncontrolled elemental, especially one imprisoned in an artificial shell, would do almost anything to get back to its original state. The worst thing was that he didn't know what kind of elemental was imprisoned inside the mechanical bull causing it to move. He suspected it was an earth elemental, but there was no easy way to be sure. The onyx stones would normally indicate he dealt with an earth one, but there were exceptions to every rule.
Lilly dashed behind him, went to the glass doors of the store, and threw them open. She went inside and looked around. There were no customers in the store at the late hour, but there were two employees taking inventory and the manager standing behind the cash register.
"Is something wrong?" the manager, a lady in her twenties said to Lilly as she looked up from the newspaper on the counter. "Can I help you with anything?"
"My friend is about to come inside here in a few minutes she said. "He's bringing a large robotic toy with him. I just wanted you to know so you wouldn't be frightened."
Dion coaxed the moving plastic bull into the store as he held the onyx stones in front of it. This had to be an earth elemental inside it; nothing else would be so charmed by the necklace. As the bull came closer, he would back up more, causing it to move again. Soon he was through the doors Lilly held open to the shop and the black plastic bull followed him. He moved backwards and was into the store itself as the large creature came after him.
"What is that thing?" the store manager said to Dion as the bull entered the store. She was visibly frightened behind the counter and her employees stopped what they were doing to stare in fascination at what was in front of them.
"Big toy," he told her, "yes, that is what it is, a big robotic toy. I had to lead it somewhere, sorry about that, but shouldn't be long now."
The doors swung shut as Lilly released them and they were inside the shop which sold china with a big plastic bull. Luring it into the location was important, but securing it inside was more important.
The bull stepped up to the first counter and stopped. It was surrounded by breakable objects. Plates made of porcelain. Bowls made of ceramic. Covered dishes made of glass. It couldn't move forward without the risk of cracking, breaking or destroying one of the fine pieces of tableware in front of it. This was the moment Dion had waited for. He now had the bull just where he wanted it and he knew for sure the elemental used to animate the bull was an earth one.
Dion carefully moved up to the plastic bull and held the necklace of onyx stones high in its face. The bull moved its painted eyes to the stones and was transfixed by them. It was unable to move at all, as it was surrounded by the chinaware and held in place by the onyx. There was one final thing left for Dion to accomplish.
While the others in the shop looked at him, he took the necklace and dropped it around the neck of the plastic bull. This alone would bind the elemental into the form where it was imprisoned. But Dion did not want the elemental to be trapped inside the bull. It could always free itself at a later date, but an imprisoned elemental tended to be furious when it was unleashed. Landslides and forest fires were caused by them. He had to let the elemental out slowly where it would not do damage and leave the mall. This was a powerful one; it had to be if it had been used to make the bull walk.
Dion made a few passes on the head of the bull, said the right words and gently touched the nose of it. He felt his strength surge through him as he connected with the elemental who still wanted freedom, even if it was enthralled by the pretty stones. Dion found the force used to contain the elemental and applied the right counter to it. It wasn't so strong that it was beyond him, but whoever did it knew what they were doing when the elemental was contained. It was a simple matter of taking down the barrier and let the elemental out slowly.
He saw the floor vibrate as the earth elemental moved from the mechanical bull to the ground. There was a slight tremor as it found its way to the soft dirt of the earth. Soon it was gone, home to its natural source. Hopefully, it would continue to return to wherever it had originated.
It was gone.
The plastic, animated bull, had returned to its original form as an adult toy, something people could use to play cowboy upon it. Dion lifted his hand and took the onyx necklace from it. The threat of a raging bull in a china shop was over.
"That thing moved in here," the manager said. "Is it safe? I mean we have a lot of things which it could break."
"Shouldn't be a problem any longer," Dion told her. "I think its battery is dead. You can leave it here for the night or let maintenance take it out in the morning. Doesn't make any difference."
"Were you working with it?" she asked him as he took Lilly by the hand and went to the door.
"Not really. I saw it moving around and tried to get it into someplace safe. Your store seemed like the best bet. Sorry if I caused you any trouble."
"Well," the manager said and looked at the plastic bull in her shop. "It might have some advertising value. I'll have to call the home office and find out."
"Phew, that was close," Lilly said to Dion as they left. "For a few minutes I thought you'd have to call that lady in and stop this thing from moving."
"I wasn't too confident I could stop it myself," he said.
"Do you think my putting the quarter in is what set it off?"
"Maybe. If you hadn't put the quarter in, whoever sat it in place would have found another way to activate it. Someone really wanted to keep me away from the Grandmaster."
They continued walking until they reached the front of the pharmacy. The door was closed and the store only had another fifteen minutes to be open.
Dion looked at the window and saw the colored containers of water in the window. It seemed like every pharmacy had those. He was once told it had to do with a special promotion drug companies used to run. Maybe it was true, but he wondered if those containers didn't represent something from the past long forgotten. 'Show Globes' he'd heard them called.
"Well," he said to Lilly. "Here we are. All this trouble just to get to the door of a pharmacy."
"I expect someone to try and stop us right now," she said. "Let's just go inside before anything else happens." Lilly pulled the door open and they stepped into the pharmacy.

Chapter 11

Inside was a typical cheery pharmacy. There was the counter near the door and rows for medicines along the walls and inside the store. In the back, they could see the dispensing area. But no one was inside it. It was still late in the day and most of the customers had gone home.
But not the pharmacist. She was waiting for them by the entrance.
"Glad to see you dealt with that thing," she said. "Taking the bull into a china shop where it would freeze over all the things it didn't want to break. Brilliant. I hadn't even considered the possibility. I guess you must be Dion?"
"Yes," he told her. "I've been trying to see you all day. As you may have noticed, there were people who wanted to stop me along the way. At least they finally gave up."
"They will never give up," Athena corrected him. "Till the day you pass into the next world they will hound you, pursue you or try to get you to work for them. You can never rest easy so long as you live. If you remain a mere worker, they may ignore you, as they will ignore her." She gestured to Lilly. "As they will ignore her. I know you've taught her some of the basics. There are few who know them, but they don't know much so they're no threat to anyone. Do you still want to become an elemental master? Because your normal life ends today if you do become one."
"I've never had a normal life," he said. "And yes, I still want what I have worked toward all these years."
"Fair enough," the pharmacist said. "The store is empty save me. I sent everyone home when I realized what was taking place outside. I even sent my customers away to other pharmacies for the evening because I told them we would be closing early. So we will be alone inside. Are you sure you want to do this?"
"I am sure."
"Good. I only have to ask twice." She turned to Lilly. "You will have to leave, child."
"Why? I've come so far...  and I don't get to see him anointed?"
"It's not for someone to see who isn't part of it. Perhaps one day you will be part of this, but today is not that day. Now please go outside."
Lilly stepped out the door and closed it behind her. She heard the lock turn in the door. As if she needed any further humiliation. She sat down at the nearest table in the hall and waited. What could be taking place in there that would take so long? Nothing strange seemed to be happening. She saw no flashes of light behind the glass. Nor did she see any clouds of smoke roll under the door. Wasn't there supposed to be the chanting of monks and angelic voices coming from the inside? But the pharmacy was still and quiet. The light was out even though the "closed" sign was in the window.
"There is a very good reason he has to be alone in there with her," a voice said to Lilly from across the table.
It was Edward. Again. This time he wore a pair of jeans with a popular band t-shirt, and a pair of leather high-tip basketball sneakers to complete his ensemble.
"You again," she mumbled. "Where were you when the bull attacked us? That thing could have killed us both."
"I thought I made it clear. I'm not allowed to interfere. I can give advice and point you in the right direction, but that is the extent of it. Even Dion's grandfather was allowed to intervene when Karanzen tried to block you the last time. I can't do that. You should know the officer will be wary the next time he encounters you. No matter what he has become over the years, Dion's grandfather scared him badly. He knew things the officer would like forget."
"You could have warned us about the bull."
"Too much interference, like I said. And the Earth Element Grandmaster was there to take it down if it did get out of control." He leaned over and looked at the tableware shop. The doors were still open and the plastic bull was still inside. The manager and employees had a tape measure and were marking lengths. "Maybe they will be able to use it. I'm sure she'll spend the rest of her life trying to figure out how it walked into the store under its own power."
Lilly glanced over at the front of the pharmacy, still closed, and noticed the metal platform with the coin box was gone from the front. This had been the same platform the bull was mounted upon when she first saw it.
"What happened to the platform?" she said to him. "It was there when the bull appeared."
"Doesn't serve a purpose anymore," he told her. "The ghouls probably took it away trying to get back in the good graces with the mall management. I wouldn't be surprised if they were the ones who placed it there. They have all kinds of ways to get around the mall you don't know about. But not to worry, they won't interfere with you a third time unless they're ordered to do it. And I don't think that will happen because their usefulness it limited."
"Edward!" another voice cried out.
They looked up to see Baron Sam approach with his chef's uniform over one arm. He wore a casual set of clothes, but had his top hat in the other hand. "It has been a long time! What brings you to this part of the world?"
"I have had the dubious honor to be assigned to this beautiful young lass," he explained to the baron. "And her equally handsome lad. They have the questionable asset of my help when they need it, even if it is seldom appreciated."
The baron let loose a laugh, which echoed through the hall. "Trust me, young lady," he said to her, "he means well and is quite harmless. I see he's learned to dress better this time."
"This outfit wasn't my idea," Edward said. "It was their mild suggestion I try and fit in better when I make an appearance. I looked in on what a person of my age and experience is supposed to wear and the shock was more than I could stand. This is the best compromise I could come up with."
"It looks good on you," he said. "Well, I must be off, much to do tonight, many celebrations to attend. I have business down south and may not be back for a few weeks. No matter, the staff can manage the restaurant well enough in my absence."
He walked down the hall singing a tune that sounded vaguely French to Lilly.
The light went out in the pharmacy across the hall and the door to it unlocked. Lilly watched as it the glass door opened and Athena West emerged.
Where was Dion? Lilly wanted to know. Had something gone wrong? After what they had endured, she was afraid for him. It was bad enough she wasn't allowed to see what took place on the inside. They had gone through so much today, and now she had to worry that something had gone wrong with the process by which he would acquire full earth elemental powers.
However, right behind the pharmacist walked Dion. He looked fine, although a little bit tired. She expected it after what they had endured today. He looked at her and smiled, and then Lilly knew everything was fine.
Dion hugged the pharmacist who turned and locked the door behind them. She waved at Lilly and continued down her way to the exit; soon she was gone. Dion walked over to the table where Lilly sat with Edward and seated himself.
"I see we've been granted full earth elemental power," Edward said to him. "I can feel it just from where I sit."
"Were you scared?" Lilly asked Dion.
"Not in the least. It was more of a final examination than anything else."
"So what happened?" Lilly asked.
"I'm not allowed to tell, and if I did say anything, Edward here would report me."
"You don't have to worry about me, my lad," Edward laughed. "The secret chiefs have many ways of discovering who keeps quiet and who does not. Fourth power of the sphinx was silence, remember." Edward noticed the frown on Lilly's face. "If he expects to obtain the other elemental powers, he must remain quiet about what took place. Should he reveal anything important, they won't allow him to have more. It's always been that way. It's why I was never a candidate. I tended to write and publish everything."
"She also told me my parents are held in the center of this mall," Dion told them. "That has nothing to do with anything initiatory. I don't think such information revealed will be held against me."
"Nor should it be," Edward told them. "Oh well, my time is short, as the ghost said." He pulled out the round watch on a chain from his pocket. "Just about time for me to go. I have to deduct it from the total time allowed, but I wanted to be here to see him get his first degree, such as it is. I must be off." And, as before, he vanished.
"I wasn't surprised to see our Greek Chorus waiting for me," Dion told Lilly as they looked at the empty chair recently occupied by Edward. "I did a double take over his choice of clothes. It really doesn't suit him."
"That outfit didn't suit anyone," Lilly made clear.
"So what can you do with the earth elementals now that you have full power over them?" Lilly asked Dion. "Maybe you can make those ghouls apologize to Emily for kidnapping her."
"I think Emily doesn't want to be around those ghouls ever again. So long as I am in the vicinity, she won't have to worry about them. They know by now that I'll bind them underground if they ever try something like that again. But I doubt it will happen as they were put up to the deed by the mall management."
"You learned this from the pharmacist?"
"It's obvious. Can't you see it? Whoever runs this mall doesn't want me to obtain full elemental abilities. They are doing what they can to throw up walls and prevent it. As long as I'm here with just a few abilities, I'm not a threat. If I obtain full elemental powers, I could be a credible threat to whatever they are trying to do with this mall. What they really worry about is what happens if I can work the fifth element."
"Why?"
"Because then they will have no power over me at all. And I will have authority over them, which is something they can't bear to contemplate. So they will stop at nothing to keep me from my quest. It's why all the Elemental Grandmasters are in this mall. They enticed them here so they could be kept under watch. The management built this mall as a fortress to keep me from reaching out to them all. They couldn't just lock them up, so they built a secure facility where they could monitor any entrance to and from them. Now they are really worried because if I can reach one Elemental Grandmaster, I can reach all four. And with all four elemental abilities, maybe I'll be able to get the fifth and then they'll be obedient to me."
"They built this entire mall to stop you from finding them? Wouldn't it have been cheaper just to find a way to take you out years ago?"
"There is a limit to what they can do. Work any kind of violence on an elemental worker and the rest find out about it. Then they would have every elemental worker turn against them and hunt them down. They wouldn't last long with every elemental turned against them. So they decided to secure the Elemental Grandmasters here by guile in hopes they could keep them away from me until their plans were realized."
"What kind of plans do they have?"
"I don't know. But it can't be good if they are willing to spend so much money and energy to build this mall to keep me out of it. I think whatever they are doing is coming to a head because why else would they go to these lengths to keep me out of the mall?"
"I think that is a good enough reason to leave," Lilly said.
As they walked out of the mall, Lilly and Dion noticed the few cars remaining in the parking lot. It was after nine in the evening and everyone who worked there was almost gone. The night was full of stars, as it was a dark night without a moon.
Lilly put her hand in Dion's as they went outside and stopped to look at the countryside. It was still a rural area with plenty of room for new developments. The interstate was visible in the distance and it was lit with the headlights of cars going back and forth between the major cities it connected. The cool night air had settled in over the ground as well.
"Do you need a ride?" Lilly asked him.
"No... my car is that old van over there. I use it a lot to get around. Sometimes I even sleep in it. My aunt and uncle are pretty busy. They don't have any other children at home and I think having me move in was pretty disruptive. I've tried not to bother them too much."
"You mean that van?" she said and pointed to a lone car in the distance.
"Yep, that's it. It was an old delivery van and it holds up very well. I have to do maintenance on it from time to time, but you expect these things after a while. Not hard to do if you can find a place on the side of the road to pull over and don't leave a mess. I keep all the tools I need in the back."
As they walked closer, Lilly suddenly noticed heads popping out around the other side of the van. Someone was staring at them from behind it. This didn't look good, as the pharmacist had warned Dion in front of her that all manner of forces would be against Dion after he'd attained elemental mastery. Could this be some elemental trying to strike back already?
They heard a conflagration of voices behind the van and a tire began to roll away from it. Dion stopped and his eyes narrowed. "Dammit," he said, "I just had a new tire put on that van. That's the one I paid for last week!"
A very human figure ran after the tire and caught it. As soon as he did, a white sedan car shot out from behind the van racing at him. The car stopped and the thief threw the tire in the backseat. He jumped into the back of the car, slammed the door, and it sped away.
This last adversary was very human indeed. The tire thieves were in the process of finishing their job when Dion and Lilly made their appearance.
"That tire cost me all the money I had," he said. "I had to use my emergency money to get the onyx necklace. I don't even have the cash to buy gas for tomorrow."
Lilly could see Dion fight to control his anger, but it was boiling up inside him. It was one thing for elementals to have a run at him; they resented his ability and looked upon Dion as competition. But for fellow humans to steal something so trivial, yet so important to him, was beyond understanding. They didn't care about his situation one bit. She watched his face go rock hard as the car sped away toward the exit.
It never made it out of the parking lot.
As the car shot out toward the ramp to the highway, the ground in front of it rose up and blocked it. The car slammed on its brakes and spun out of control, barely missing the combination of asphalt and earth, which began to rumble up around it. The car stopped and they could hear yelling on the inside of it. The thieves gunned the engine and aimed for the grass berm next to the exit lane. However, as they approached it, the ground next to the wall, which had risen out of the ground, collapsed, leaving a vast pit before them.
Once again, the car spun off in another direction and stopped. This time the driver started to inch the car forward and the ground opened up directly in front of it. Fire erupted from the pit below it and the car began to move backwards.
Everywhere the car tried to go, the earth rose up or dropped in front of it until it had no choice but it move back in the direction of the van. The white sedan slowly rumbled back toward it. When the sedan reached the old van, the car came to a full stop.
Lilly looked up at Dion and saw the rage in his eyes. He fought the desire inside him. He had to keep from destroying the van and everyone inside it. This was the wrath of an operational earth element master. Dion stood perfectly still and focused on the sedan.
The back door of the sedan opened and the thief emerged. In his hands was the tire and he shook with fear. Lilly was worried the thieves were armed, but Dion's power trumped any weapon they could possibly carry in that car.
"Put it back the way it was!" He ordered the thief.
The tire thief, knees knocking together, stepped toward the van. He appeared to have second thoughts until the fire pit surrounding the car spread closer. Then he continued on behind the van. The sound of him replacing the tire could be heard from their side of it. After fifteen tense minutes, the thief emerged with the tire jack in one hand. He stood in front of Dion with the jack as if seeking instruction.
"Place it down on the ground and get back in the car!" Dion ordered the thief.
As instructed, the man placed it on the ground and slowly climbed into the car, shutting the door behind him. The car continued to idle in place.
The earthen mound in front of the exit retracted and became level with the ground. The fire inside the pits extinguished and the ground rose back up to become smooth once again. It was almost impossible in the dark to tell anything had taken place. Then ground became quiet and the rumbling, which had accompanied the movement of the earth, was gone.
The white sedan moved at a snail's pace across the parking lot and began to pick up speed as it left the exit lane. By the time it was on the entrance ramp to the interstate, Dion estimated the car's speed had hit in excess of ninety miles an hour. It vanished into the night, a white streak down the blacktop.
"I hope they have a good story ready if they encounter the Highway Patrol," Dion said as he turned back to Lilly. "Are you parked on the other side of the mall? Come with me, I can give you a ride over there now that my van has all four tires."
Lilly walked to the van with him.
Dion reached down and picked up the jack, which he tossed in the back of the van as he opened the door. The driver's door was unlocked, as the thieves had used a coat hanger (left inside) to pull open the lock and ruffle through the inside. They didn't find much beside the jack, but the tire was their intent anyway. He unlocked the passenger door for Lilly and helped her inside.
She didn't know what to say. The day had begun with her watching him do small tricks with a pool of water and ended with Dion causing the earth to move around a speeding car. If ever she needed physical proof of his abilities, this was it. She quietly sat down in her seat and waited for him to start the van.
Nevertheless, it wouldn't start. Dion swore and looked at the gas gauge in the van. "Idiots siphoned off my gas too. If I had known, I would have made them fill my tank. Looks like I'll need a ride from you tonight."
They walked across the huge parking lot under the stars. The arc lamps illuminated it, but not all of them were on tonight.
Lilly realized she was very much in love with Dion, but lacked the words to tell him. All she could think about was going on the next adventure with him. Be close to him. Didn't he say he had to obtain three more elemental powers before he could work the fifth one? She wanted to be with him every step of the way.
"So what about your van?" she asked him on the drive back. "It's going to be left out there all night? Aren't you worried someone might try that again?"
"I left an elemental guarding it," he said. "Anyone tries to mess with my van tonight will encounter an eight foot giant standing next to them. It's just a golem and doesn't have any violent tendencies, but he will be able to scare the pants off most people. It should suffice. When I get home, I'll have my uncle and aunt call a tow service and we'll meet them out there when they arrive. Alternatively, maybe I'll just borrow a gas can and go out there myself. No reason to make this more involved than it has to be."
"I'd like to meet them," Lilly said. "You aunt and uncle, that is."
"You will. They should still be up."
Dion directed her to one of the many subdivisions, which lined the area, and they were soon in the driveway of his aunt and uncle's house.
It was another modes split-level house, a style popular in recent years which had replace the ranch style castles which sprang up everywhere until ten years ago when people became tired of the same basic dwelling.
New developers began to build new models and soon houses were taking on the characteristics of their owners. Some houses were in a perpetual state of construction and addition, as the owner would always find some new project to initiate before concluding an existing one. Some houses had yards free of any traces of crabgrass while others had entire gardens growing out front. It was before the zoning laws standardized the way everything could be built. Most of them had their own water system and pumped it from the underground water table. This was all about to change with the coming of progress and shopping centers. Even cable TV had yet to reach this area and most houses were adorned with a virtual forest of antennas of all shapes, sizes and rotational controls.
Dion's uncle met him at the door.
Lilly was surprised at how much he resembled his nephew. He graciously invited her inside and told them both to sit on the couch while he went to fetch his wife.
"I'll get some coffee brewing," he said. "You two look as if you could use some."
"Do you think they'll believe what we have to tell them?" Lilly asked Dion.
"They're family," he reminded her. "My uncle is the element worker and his wife understands."
"Oh, honey," Lilly heard a very feminine voice cry out and she looked up to see a tall woman with long red hair enter the room, "Are you okay? Your uncle told me you had a bad time at the mall today. Is everything alright?"
"I'm fine Aunt Taliea," he told her. "At least I met the Earth Grandmaster today. You should see what I can do now."
He turned to Lilly, "I'm sorry, I didn't introduce you to them. This is my Aunt Taliea and her husband, my father's brother, Uncle Rich."
They all hugged, shook hands and sat back down again. Dion and Lilly stayed on the couch while his aunt and uncle sat across from them in chairs. It was an ordinary house, so far as Lilly could tell; the only difference was that there was no TV in the living room. She hadn't even heard one when she entered the house.
First, Lilly phoned her parents to let them know where she was. She was careful to give them the phone number where she could be reached. Her mother was a little perturbed she had gone somewhere without checking with her first, but Lilly casually reminded her she was eighteen and should be trusted to make her own decisions. Her mother made her promise to be home by midnight.
"She acts like I'm still in the sixth grade," Lilly said after hanging up the phone.
Dion spent an hour or more telling them what had happened during the day. His aunt put her hand to her mouth several times when they talked about the ghouls and the animated plastic bull, but she stayed silent through most of the story. When they had finished the story, his aunt and uncle stayed quiet for a while.
"Well," his uncle finally spoke. "I'm glad you got your full earth elemental abilities. You are an earth elemental master now. Just be careful with what you can do. I've known Athena West a long time and I'm sure she wouldn't have bestowed them on you unless she felt you were worthy."
"What do you plan on doing next?" his aunt asked him.
Lilly could see the concern in her face.
"I have to go back there tomorrow," he told her.
"Go back? After what happened today?"
"I need to see the next elemental grandmaster. The one who is the grandmaster of the air elementals."
"But why?" his aunt cried out. "Isn't having the ability of one enough. Your Uncle Rich is an air worker and he's never felt the need to try and obtain grandmaster status."
"I know, but I have to do this. I need all four of the elemental master abilities."
"All four?" his uncle said. "Why?"
"Because I will need them in order to obtain the fifth elemental mastership. And I want that because I learned today what I always suspected; my parents are being held captive inside that place. It's up to me to get them out. I can only do that if I have all of the elemental powers... including the fifth one."
"I don't think I've heard of someone working the fifth element in hundreds of years," his uncle said. "It's the most dangerous one there is. Can't you find another way to get them out?"
"No, the builders are in the middle of the mall in that clock tower. I think they've imprisoned my parents in there. They kidnapped them in hopes it would stop me from acquiring all the elemental powers. Well, they've given me a reason to obtain them all."
His aunt and uncle were quiet. They realized Dion had determined his path and there was nothing they could do to prevent it.
"One more thing," Dion said to them.
"What?" his uncle asked.
"I need to borrow the gas can. Lilly is going to run me back to the van with it after we stop at the gas station before it closes. The thieves who tried to steal my tire also drained my gas before they left. I didn't learn about it until we tried to start the van."
His uncle smiled.
"Well, that went pretty well," Lilly told Dion as she drove him back to the mall. They'd managed to find one gas station still open in time to fill up the gas can. "But really, I don't see why you bother with a van."
"Why?" he asked her as they pulled up to a red light.
"Anyone who can summon the power of the earth should be able to travel anywhere he wants and do what he wants. I can't imagine what you'll be able to do when you get those other abilities."
"Just you wait and see," he told her. Then Dion leaned over the seat, kissed Lilly on the lips, and held it.
The light turned green, but the car didn't move until another car pulled up behind them and honked them forward.
It wasn't long before they reached their destination. Lilly got out of her car and helped Dion pour the gas in the van, then returned the can to the trunk of her car.
"It's late," Dion told her as he wrapped his arms around her. "You need to go home."
"What time should I be here tomorrow?" Lilly asked.
"Let's get here nice and early at nine in the morning."
They kissed one final time.
Soon, each was on their way home, with plans in the making for the next Elemental Grandmaster.


- THE END -



Part 2 - AIR


Chapter 1


"Jupiter Hitch?" Lilly asked Dion. "His name is Jupiter Hitch?"
"That's what I'm told," Dion said as they pulled up in front of the mall in his van. The tank was now full after he'd gone out the previous evening with his uncle and filled it.
His aunt and uncle were still opposed to Dion's return to the mall. After learning about his experience the previous day with the ghouls, the security officer who wasn't human, and the revelation that his parents were imprisoned inside the mall, they pleaded with Dion to stay put. If it were that dangerous, why would he return alone?
But as Dion made clear, there was no other person who could free them. The mall builders created the shopping center over the abyss and it was obvious that they feared his abilities. The only way to keep Dion at bay was to hold his parents captive. Or so they thought. Instead, it had the opposite effect. He was more determined now than ever to free them.
The mall rose from the field as if it was constructed as a fortress on a plain to guard the approach to a city. Although the lands around it were flat, it was also possible to imagine the interstate next to it a great river. The cars racing down it resembled fish in the river.
It was early, but the sun was already in the sky, drying the morning dew without leaving too much of an imprint in the soil. If you were still enough, it was possible to see the rabbits in the grass, munching on whatever they could find. Not too far away, from where the mall was built was a quiet stream, which wound its way to the Miami River in silence. It would appear from concrete pipes and vanish into them over and over again. The hand of humanity made itself known felt by the sounds of concrete trucks bouncing to the latest subdivision under construction.
Dion parked the van close to the entrance of the second part of the mall, the part that corresponded to the element of air. Now that the powers of the earth elementals were bestowed on him, he needed to obtain the other three. Only when he had all of them could he hope to master the fifth element, which ruled in the center of the mall. He had no hope of freeing his parents until he had the power of it under control. As Dion was once told, no element worker had mastered this fifth element in hundreds of years; his difficulty could not be understated.
Dion stepped out of the van and leaned back on the metal of its side. He looked at the mall and closed his eyes. It was there, the power of the element of air in the section he faced. He could feel it in the sky and around the entrance. He could see the small air gusts and wind elementals frisk around the mall and make patterns over the ground. They didn't have much form, but these did not concern him. They were useful if you need to summon up a breeze for a kite or to push a sailboat, but not for much more. The stronger ones where higher up in the atmosphere. They were not easy to manipulate. Work with them the wrong way and you could get a lightning bolt sent down on top of your car. One had to be very careful with the elementals of the upper atmosphere.
"Do you feel anything?" Lilly said as she noticed Dion's expression. He seemed quiet and relaxed.
"Just the sylphs who are already outside."
"What?" Dion's terminology drove her a little mad sometimes. This was only the second day she was with him, but the adventures they'd experienced together the day before were enough for two lifetimes.
"Sylphs," he told her. "Air elementals. Some people call them fairies. But they're a lot different from what you'll find in literature. No, they don't go around with sugarplums and they don't have wings. They don't have much material form at all. I see them a lot around fast air currents and in air ducts. It's how I did the falling card trick with the police detective. I found one and cut a deal with it to knock over some stacked cards in return for allowing it to leave the building. They're pretty easy to please. At least the smaller ones which are close to the earth. I don't know a lot about the ones who live in thunderclouds, but they seem to be quite dangerous.
There'll be more elementals inside and I have no idea what form they will take. The ghouls can't bother us again as I have dominion over them. I can use them if I need to, but I don't want to get dependent on them, it won't look good to the other Elemental Grandmasters."
"Do these new elementals inside the mall have any special forms? Or do they all float around the skylight?"
"We'll know them when we run into them There is no way the mall builders will allow me to run around inside without some kind of opposition. We didn't realize the cleaners where ghouls until we got close to them. I suspect it will be the same way with any other kind of elemental we run into today."
Dion wore the same jeans jacket he had on the previous day. It matched the flared pants he wore too. Although he didn't have any kind of logo on the back of his jacket, no one would've mistaken him for a mechanic or someone who worked with machine tools. Dion was refined, but not as obnoxious as the officers' kids from the local air base. They let everyone know that their families shopped at the commissary and had access to all kinds of things civilians didn't. Lately, a completely new class had moved into town: the university brat. With the rise of the state colleges built around the Midwest, academics from the coasts were flocking to the hinterland in search of work in their fields.
"So, what do you know about this Jupiter Hitch?" Lilly asked.
"According to Ms. West, he's the Grandmaster of the Air Element. He's the one I'll need to meet if I'm to be granted all the powers which come with the second element."
Athena West was a pharmacist who ran the Alchemist Shop inside the mall. She was also the Grandmaster of the Earth Element. It was she who'd given Dion his power over the earth elementals the day before. The entire day was spent in an attempt to reach her. The builders of the mall were intent to keep Dion away from her store. The ghouls, who were employed as cleaners, did everything possible to block him from reaching his destination. They'd even kidnapped their friend Emily and taken her away. It took an underground trip to the subbasement where the ghouls lived to free Emily. Lilly doubted her friend would ever come anywhere near the mall again.
Lilly was smartly dressed that day in platform shoes which added a few inches to her height. She didn't want the real high ones that gave her an extra six inches, as they were difficult to walk in around the mall. Her blouse showed enough shoulder, but not too much. It was hidden beneath the jacket she wore over it. No reason to go on a hunt for an element grandmaster and appear to be a slob. She doubted at college it would be easy to keep up appearances when she started in the fall.
"Where do we find this one?" she asked Dion.
"He owns a hobby shop. It's on the first floor of the mall, so we don't have to deal with the escalators this time. Pretty nice place from what I can remember. Miniature airplanes, model rockets and toy trains. There was a hobby shop near me when I was growing up in California. I still remember buying those tiny bottles of paint to decorate model airplanes."
Lilly never had much interest in model airplanes or rockets when she was younger. It was just not on her radar. But if it helped Dion locate his grandmaster, she was willing to help him. By now, she trusted him and his abilities.
"You think he moved here to the mall when it opened?" she asked him. "I heard something about it at the time."
"I talked to Uncle Rich about it last night. The mall went out of their way to get him to move inside it. They claimed the reason was because they didn't want bad relations with the local businessmen, but I think there was much more. They especially wanted him inside the mall because he's an elemental grandmaster. They went to a lot of trouble to get them to move inside and reorganized their shops. Ms. West's pharmacy was somewhere down in Scipio. They did the same to all of them: made them an offer they couldn't refuse. Now the mall builders have all the elemental grandmasters under one roof, where they can keep them all in sight."
Jupiter Hitch was an older man who opened the hobby store after he retired as an engineer from the local air base. He'd worked as a civilian contractor for the United States Air Force after he graduated college in 1940 with a degree in engineering from a prestigious technical college. World War II kicked off almost a year later and his skills were instantly in demand. He spent the war in uniform and cashiered out to a growing aeronautical industry. In 1946, he found himself working for a reclusive millionaire turning out experimental aircraft. When his designs had a high success rate, he was promoted to the head of the department. Hitch quit when his employer refused to listen to his concerns about a high altitude aircraft they were trying to test. When an entire crew was killed in an experimental design, he quit and moved east to work for the government.
Hitch became the elemental grandmaster in the middle of the Second World War after the other elemental workers decided he possessed extraordinary abilities with the air elementals. He provided information that allowed American bombers to avoid storms on the way back from missions over Germany. No one in the American government knew where he came by his information, but it saved thousands of lives.
He used his air elemental insider information to build better planes in the years after the war. The sylphs could tell him instantly if a particular airfoil design had the ability to work. The air elementals of the higher atmosphere would let him know about conditions in their part of the clouds. In return, he let them know when any kind of testing might happen in the elementals' part of the sky. During the nuclear tests, this information was crucial to the elementals. He was also instrumental in bring the nuclear atmospheric tests to a halt. His reasons were humanitarian, but he also understood how furious the atomic explosions made the elementals.
All the years he worked for the air base, Hitch experimented on small model aircraft. He became a legend among the tiny aircraft builders, people who flew small model planes with miniature gas engines. Due to the air base and its need for skilled technical people, there was a large local community of model aircraft and rocket enthusiasts. On any given Sunday, he was down at the city flying circles or launching another model rocket into the air. Hitch never married so he had plenty of time to devote to his hobbies.
When he retired, he opened up a hobby store, which allowed him to pursue what he really enjoyed: building the latest and best model aircraft he could find. It also allowed him a cheap way to buy parts. After he hired some people who knew about the business and sales side, it allowed him to do what he wanted all day long. The hobby store was quite profitable and allowed him to interact with other hobbyists. In time, his store, Hobby Visions, became a popular source of tools and material. Hitch would also put out a catalogue that became known all over the world.
"Good morning," a voice said to their left and they turned to see Edward again. This time he wore a USAF uniform. The rank said "Major" on the nametag.
"You can get in trouble walking around impersonating an officer," Dion said to the little man.
"It's the least of my concerns. I'm more concerned with your current situation."
Edward was a strange little Englishman who popped in for brief moments to offer advice it seemed. They could never get a straight story out of him as to his origins. He claimed he was allowed to give them guidance on their adventures, but not to do anything else. Edward was corporal for only five minutes at a time, but he was vague as to how long he was allowed to appear. The only thing consistent so far was that he showed up in a different outfit each time. The last time he'd appeared, Edward wore a concert t-shirt, jeans and a pair of suede leather shoes. As far as clothing went, this was a vast improvement.
Edward pulled out a cigar, clipped off the end with a pair of tiny scissors, and lit it. He took a long inhale, much to the disgust of Dion and Lilly. "Ah, one of the few pleasures I am still permitted. Just don't say a word if anyone asks you what I've done, please."
"Anything special we need to know about what is on the other side of the glass doors?" Lilly asked. "Are you going to call in an air strike?"
"It wouldn't do many any good if I had the authority. They could drop blockbusters all over that structure and the builders would find another way to create a new one. They are that powerful."
"So, does this explain the Air Force uniform?" Dion asked him. "It looks a lot better on you than the last outfit."
"While thank you. No, I get a brief opportunity to make a request before they send me back. I've spent my time on the other side looking into what is considered proper attire these days. Beastly, I tell you, just dreadful. This was the best outfit I could find on a short notice. What I came here to let you know, is that the builders of the mall are furious you walked out of it with your earth elemental power yesterday. They have threatened to replace all of the ghouls, although what good it would do is beyond me. Any other earth elementals they can bring inside will automatically be under your authority. The chemist is leaving and has told the management she will end her lease next month."
"Chemist?" Dion asked.
"Oh, dear, that is right; you call them pharmacists in this country. Anyway, she feels it is time for her to move on to set up shop somewhere else. I'm guessing her work is finished in the mall. This might be another reason all the Element Grandmasters were so willing to relocate to the mall. They knew you would find it easier to locate them if they were in the same area. She spoke highly of you, my lad, so keep up the good work."
"You went ahead and talked to her?" Dion asked. "How did you manage to do that?"
"I have my ways. They wanted me to do a follow up, so I had tea with her yesterday after the mall closed. We spent a good hour together. I want you to know that she gave you the highest recommendation ever for a new Master of the Earth Element."
Dion thought for a few moments. He was pleased she would think so well of him, but did it really make a difference? So long as his parents were imprisoned inside the inner part of the mall, he had to find a way to get them out. If the other Elemental Grandmasters thought well of him, well then maybe it would all work out in the end. But until he had all five powers, no single one of them would do him any good.
He thought back to his early years and remembered his father showing him how to make small creatures out of clay. They didn't last very long and soon crumbled back to the soil, but it was fun. He remembered luring the wind elementals to push sailboats along when the air was calm. At an early age, he would play with the air elementals in the backyard of the house. He liked to watch the sylphs of the lower air fly around the trees. They could tell you if company was headed down the road or when the big storms were on the horizon. The air elementals didn't interact much with humans.
He remembered several talks he had with his parents about what he could and could not say in front of the "English". "The English" were the elemental workers' term for those who couldn't manipulate elements. No one seemed to know where the term originated; it was just something they used among themselves. The elemental workers even had certain signs and terms to use whenever they were afraid an outsider was listening in on the conversation. He remembered the first time his father told his mother there were too many "spirits in the night" at a restaurant. This was a coded term they used. It meant there were people listening in on the conversation who shouldn't hear what was being said.
"And it's just about time for me to go," Edward said as he looked at his wristwatch. "I prefer a pocket watch, but this Rolex is smashing. I hope they let me use it the next time."
Once again, he was gone without so much as a flash.
"I can't get used to him popping in and out like that," Lilly said to Dion. She turned and looked at the entrance to the mall. Nothing at the front to stop them.
"Did you know there's a town in Ohio called Revenge?" Dion said.
"You're kidding? Why would a town have a name like that?"
"Nobody really knows. I ran across it in the library. The best theory is that there was a competition between two men over who would get to name the town. The loser of the competition was to get the chance to name it. What the town officials didn't tell him was that the award of naming the town went to the man who lost the competition. So, as the story runs, as his retaliation on everyone for losing, he named the town 'Revenge'. At least that is the story I was told."
It wasn't yet ten in the morning so the mall was still closed to everyone but the employees. Dion watched the security guards come to the glass doors and let the workers in. Every time they opened the door to let someone inside, the guards would make a point of glaring at Lilly and himself. There was no love between Officer Karanzen, who was in charge of the security guards, and Dion. They'd spent the previous day avoiding Karanzen and his goons while they hunted for Emily after she was kidnapped by the ghoul cleaners. It was only after the appearance of Dion's grandfather, who was Karanzen's commanding officer in the Korean War, that the overbearing security chief left them alone.
"I was surprised your grandfather was here yesterday," Lilly said. "Do you think he'll be back today?"
"No. It takes a lot to bring him and grandmother back. He has some of the same restrictions Edward has, just not as severe. I don't think we'll see much of them. By the way, did your parents seem concerned about last night? It was late when I took you home."
"My mother and father understand I'm a big girl," Lilly laughed. "After my sister married and moved out, they eased up a lot. I told them the truth: we had to go get gas for your van after it ran out."
She avoided telling them the gas was stolen by thieves who were after a tire on his van. She didn't tell them how Dion caused the ground to open up around the getaway car until they returned the tire. Had he known that the same thieves had also siphoned off the gas in his van, he would've made them fill it up. Luckily for the thief, they didn't learn the tank was empty until they tried to start the van.
There was a small crowd of shoppers in front of the glass doors ready for them to open. Likewise, the best parking places were taken by people who arrived early. Dion and Lilly were standing toward the back of the lot as they expected to be there most of the day. The builder of the mall had thrown all forms of hurdles in front of Dion to keep him from reaching the Earth Elemental Grandmaster yesterday, and he had every expectation they would do it again.
They noticed Emily's car the moment she pulled into the lot. Even Dion was surprised she knew where to find them. He sat there and watched her little green Ford pull into the entrance and drive right up to them. After her experiences the day before, he was stunned she would return after having vowed never to come anywhere near the mall again.

Chapter 2

"I didn't expect to see you here again," Lilly said to Emily as she got out of the car. "I thought you never wanted to see this place again."
"I don't," she said, her hair combed down and not the mess it was the day before. "But I'm not leaving you two here alone to do whatever task Dion has to do. We've known each other for years and I don't want to lose friendship over a haunted mall."
Emily had grown up with Lilly. They attended school together most of their lives. As their last names were similar, they were in the same homerooms all the way through junior and high school.
"Besides," Emily continued, "I've got some help today. I want you to meet Sean. Come on out, Sean."
The passenger side door of her car opened and another high schooler stepped out. He was the same age as the rest of them, eighteen, but that was the only thing Sean had in common with the rest of the group. He wore thick glasses, which were smeared with grease. This made it difficult for them to see what his eyes looked like. His face was scared by skin infections, and his clothes might've been new ten years ago.
"Always good to get some help," Dion told the newcomer. "Did Emily fill you in on what we're up against here?
"She gave me some idea. According to her, the place is infested by ghosts, zombies and werewolves."
"No ghosts," Dion corrected him. "They won't come anywhere near here unless it's to shop. I don't know about werewolves because I haven't seen any of them. The map I had of the mall listed a hidden restaurant that caters to them, so they might be here. However, you wouldn't know it unless it was a full moon."
Sean looked at him for a few seconds. "That is awesome! What about the zombies?"
"You haven't met the security guards."
Sean didn't have a girlfriend. In Sean's mind, this made him less than human. At eighteen, Sean lacked many of the basic social skills which would have allowed him to have the relationships that might have alleviated his loneliness. But Sean was an introvert, someone who didn't have the kind of social connections he needed to get along with people. He found relief from his ultrarelgious mother and suffering father at an early age in books. In books, there were neat endings and people lived happily ever after. Evil was destroyed and good triumphant. As he got older, Sean realized the world around him didn't match the one he read about, but he still went to the same sources for guidance: books.
He had grown up in a small ranch-style house in town. His father, a mechanic at one of the auto plants, worked long hours and took all the overtime he could so his family had a decent place to live. He never understood his son or the fascination the boy had for fantasy literature and monster movies on television. As far as he could see it, it was a waste of time. Now, football and team sports, this he understood. Sean's dad enjoyed watching the big game when he came home. However, he couldn't even coax his son to toss a baseball. The one time he tried, Sean had bloodied his noose when he missed the ball and never tried again.
Sean's mother was absolutely sure something was wrong with him. This was the time of the many "How To" books on child rearing. Whenever she'd hear something on one of the morning radio talk shows, she would meet Sean at the door when he returned from school with a cold stare. Sean endured a lot from her, but the worst was when she forced him to read a book about a teenage psychopath. He had nightmares for months over that one. It was almost as bad as the morning ritual he experienced where his mother read the latest advice column from the newspaper outload. Later, when he learned to read, Sean would find the columns himself when she tossed away the paper. He discovered his mother only read aloud the columns that agreed with her.
School wasn't much of a relief from what he endured at home. In neither place was he deprived of any material needs, but, as a certain book said, people do not survive on bread alone. His school system was over-loaded and understaffed, a victim of the massive enrollment increase, which came with the bloom of the suburbs. The teachers didn't know how to handle the hormones exploding in teenagers, packed forty to a classroom. The school administrator was stuck with a township that didn't want to pay much for their children's education. And the school buildings were repurposed every year from elementary to junior to high school and back again. It was not a shining moment in the education field.
Sean soon discovered when he entered high school that you only counted if you were a jock, genius or a troublemaker. If you didn't fall into one of these categories, you were one of the teaming masses of students who ran from one class to another when the bell rang, which it did seven times a day. He learned to keep his mouth shut and avoid any stare at the toughs, who didn't need a provocation to punch you. What if the teacher saw them? So what? They were sent down the office several times a week anyway. Their parents were beyond concern by this stage.
What he could not understand was why these bad boys were so popular with the girls. Every single one of them strutted around the hall as if he owned it. All he had to do was glance at one of the girls and she would swoon. This wasn't always the case, but it happened enough for Sean to understand the basic inequality in the human race. Worse, it seemed the nicer you were to one of the hot girls, the nastier she was to you.
This is what drew him to the literary journal at the school and the crowd which surrounded it. It allowed him to indulge in his love for books and play at being a writer. Best of all, there were some girls involved who would give him the time of day. It was at the school's journal where he met Lilly and Emily. They seemed to merely tolerate him, but it was more time than any of the other girls in school would give him. It was also fun to see his name on the masthead. Needless to say, his mother considered it a waste of time and belittled him for never making the honor roll.
Emily he adored.
She realized after a few months of his attention she could get Sean to do anything she wanted, just so long as she paid him some compliments. She thrived on the attention too, although the relationship was always determined by her. Sean tried to raise the "girlfriend" topic at one point, but she put a stop to it. Emily wasn't ready for any kind of relationship after she saw what the broken one had done to her father.
But Sean longed to tell Emily how he really felt about her. He would write stories where she was the maiden and he the knight. Then he would ball them up and throw them into the trash. He would instantly fish them out of the trash and tear the stories into shreds before flushing them down the toilet. His mother had found one of his stories in the trash one morning and read it aloud to the family as an example of why "There had to be something wrong with him". Sean knew he would remember that slight until the day he died.
So he was thrilled when Emily called him from her father's house with a secret mission. This would allow him to show her that he was worthy of her attention. It would permit him to enter into the adult world, which in both of their cases was due to take place when they left for college. She wouldn't tell him what it was about and they agreed to meet early in the day before the mall opened at one of the local breakfast places near where they lived.
Sean was transfixed after she finished with her story as to what occurred the day before at the mall. He felt one of his high fantasy novels come to life as she sat there and told him what happened over a coffee. He didn't know what to do. It all seemed so surreal.
What he didn't want to do was tell his family. His dad would roll his eyes and go back to watching TV; his mom would wail and get the pastor on the phone, if he was lucky. They might take him to a shrink if he even let on about this story. In no way would he allow any of them to know. At least his sisters were left alone. They seldom found reason to stay around the house.
"So, how do you want me to help you?" he said from across the table. Sean picked a small booth toward the back where they would less likely be noticed. He didn't need the sneers from the jocks who found reason to come inside from time to time.
"Just come out there with me today as back-up," she told him. "I need you to run cover for me. It's all I'm asking." Emily slid one hand over his.
When she did that, Sean made up his mind he would do anything for her. He was gone to the world, madly in love with the girl who faced him, even if he couldn't tell anyone.
"So he knows it all," Emily told Dion and Lilly. "I told him every detail what happened yesterday. Sean is here to help too. Why don't you let him?"
"Do you have any idea what we're up against?" Dion asked Sean. "You have any idea at all what could be on the other side of those doors?"
"I've talked with Emily," he said. Dion noticed Emily gave Sean's hand a little tug with hers.
"I see. Well, let's get moving. Just watch me and listen to anything I have to tell you. It might appear to be a normal mall on the outside, but the place is the entrance to hell."
As with the other entrance, there was as small water fountain outside the entrance to the "Air" section of the mall. Dion stopped and watched the water play out. He wondered what he could do to make the dangers of the mall real to Sean, but his full power extended only over the earth element.
And then he saw the bull again.
The plastic bull, which came to life the previous day and tried to stop them from reaching the Grandmaster of the Earth Element, was on a cart. The cart was sitting on the curb next to the fountain, although the plastic bull was tied down to it. Next to it was a uniformed maintenance man who was in the process of finishing his morning cigarette. Dion stopped to look at the bull on the cart.
"They're taking it out?" he asked the man.
The worker finished his cigarette and tossed the butt on the ground. At least there had been a rain the night before, so there were no worries about the ground catching fire.
"Not working?" Dion asked again.
"Somebody said it came loose and slid off the mount upstairs. I don't see how it happened, but it was in the cooking store when we had to move it out. The company is replacing it. Can you believe that? This damn mechanical bull came loose and slid all the way into the store."
"I'd have to see that happen to believe it," Dion told him.
In fact, he had, but now it was just another cheap ride for the curious.
"Yeah, I find it hard to believe too," the man said.
Dion felt the earth elementals moving beneath them. These were the basic ones; he could do a lot more with them now though. They weren't too complicated and could be easy to work with. He found two playing in the soil beneath the plastic bull and connected with them. Would they be willing to help him in return for something they might need? Yes, but what did he need? Dion told him and they were delighted to help.
"It that strap very tight?" Dion asked.
"Tight as it needs to be. I don't think there's much trouble with it. Statue doesn't weight that much, in spite of how it looks. I don't foresee it bucking out of the truck."
"I wouldn't' be so sure about that," Dion told him just as the plastic strap around the middle of the bull snapped.
The maintenance man turned and looked at the bull behind him. He dropped the second cigarette, which he was on the point of lighting, and starred as the bull stepped off the cart. It walked straight up to him. It turned its head, looked around and noticed the green grass on the ground. As the rest of the group looked on in wonder, the plastic bull walked over the grass and began to gnaw on the ground.
"But, it's fake!' is all the man could sputter out.
"Are you sure about that?" Dion said to him. "I don't recall too many fake bulls which eat grass."
The man walked over to the bull and starred at it a bit longer. He could see the painted nose snort and the artificial eyes look at the ground. The bull was black in color and wasn't transparent; although it had a shine on it from the way the sunlight struck it. The bull continued to munch on the grass.
"It's some kind of machine," the man concluded. "Has to be. Now I see why people thought it had walked into the china shop. Can you imagine that? A plastic bull inside a china shop."
The bull reared back up. It reassumed the position it had before the it animated. The earth elementals thanked Dion in a voice only he could hear. They left the bull statue, traveling back into the ground. The bull turned back into what it was before the elementals entered it: a metal and plastic statue designed for the entertainment industry.
"I think your bull is back to normal," Dion told the man as it froze back into position. "You need some help getting it back on the cart?"
The man walked over to the bull statue and pushed it. It wobbled, but showed no signs of moving again. He looked at it all over until he decided it wasn't going to walk away. With one hand, he lifted it up. The front section bucked up into the air.
"I don't get it," he said. "I watched this thing walk off the cart by itself and eat the grass. There are even grass stains on the mouth. How did it happen? I can't feel any heavy gears inside it."
"Who knows? Maybe they've put something inside the bull you don't know about."
"Now I have to be concerned about it climbing of the cart," the maintenance man grumbled.
"I don't think you have to worry," Dion smirked as he and his friends headed in the direction of the mall entrance.

Chapter 3

If a true believer needed to be created, it was found in the form of Sean.
Lilly and Emily had watched all kinds of miracles the day before and didn't have the least trouble with a plastic bull, which walked on its own. Sean, on the other hand, had spent his formative years listening to his mother babble on about demons, spirits and the end of the world.
He was forced to attend church meeting where elderly pastors screamed damnation on the sinful world of rock music. He watched respected women of the choir divorce and re-marry. By the time he was fifteen, Sean decided it was all a pile of nonsense and there was no magic in the world. It was all protons, electrons, smoke and mirrors. But a walking plastic bull had made a believer out of him in seconds.
They continued to the mall entrance. It was now unlocked and the crowds which had waited outside were on their way inside.
There was always a sense of excitement by these shoppers as they worked their way into the mall to greet the new shopping day. It resembled a tribe of hunters who had spotted their prey and were intent on closing in as soon as they could. They would form groups of hunting parties to swarm across the grounds of the mall in search of the best sources of game. They pursued their quarry based on tracks marked by sales flyers and images on the wall, which told them of the daily specials. When they were ready to pounce, the hunters approached with shopping carts in front of them, ready to acquire the target.
The four were soon inside the mall, walking through one of the corridors, which connected with the main concourse. Benches and planters ran through the middle of the corridor and smaller shops lined the sides. These were small stores that seldom had more than a thousand square feet on the inside with one or two windows. It was the start of the workday and the window cleaners were busy at work with their squeegees.
Dion noted the window cleaners were human and with a local company that used a seahorse as its logo. He hadn't seen a ghoul cleaner yet and didn't think he would. The ghouls wouldn't touch him since he had full earth elemental power. However, officer Karanzen and his officers were a different story.
And just as Dion stepped into the main concourse, he encountered his nemesis. Karanzen, in his uniform, stood and blocked Dion's way into the mall. On either side were two of Karanzen's security guards.
Dion stopped and looked at him directly in the face. "And good morning to you, Officer Karanzen," he said to the shaven-headed former army officer. "Is there something I can do for you?"
"You can watch yourself in this mall. I don't want a repeat of yesterday. Do I make myself clear?"
"You do, Officer. Now if you will please move aside? I have an appointment I need to keep." He stepped around the head of mall security and led his friends to the rest of the mall."
"That's right, you little snipe," Karanzen mumbled to himself, not caring if his guards heard or not. "Just continue on your happy way. We'll see how far you get this time."
"Who was that?" Sean asked Dion as they continued on their way. "The guy didn't seem to like you at all."
"The feeling is mutual. We had a confrontation the last time I was here."
"More like multiple confrontations," Lilly added. She made sure to be at his side in case Dion needed anything.
"He won't be of much trouble today," Dion continued. "Unless we do something stupid. And I don't intend to do anything stupid. We'll see what happens."
The mall was busy already. The shoppers heard the news on TV, radio and in the local papers about the big spring sales that drove them to the mall. Already the lot filled with cars, which brought even more shoppers out to sample the wares from all over the world. There was even one store which specialized in imports from the vast reaches of the planet and beyond. Eager faces of energetic aspirants to the wealth of the world could be seen as they walked between stores and feasted their eyes upon the treasures that lay inside. The bonus checks arrived last week from many of the large companies where the families drew their income.
"We lost the map of the mall when we had to trade it for Emily," Lilly pointed out. It was the only way they could get her back from the ghouls without violence the previous day. "It's not going to be easy to find our way around."
"Why should it be hard?" Sean asked them. "There is a directory on the other side we can use. If not, I'm sure one of the kiosk ladies has a map."
"Different kind of map," Emily said. "Dion got this from a special store. It shows places the other maps don't."
"Why would that make a difference?"
"The map we had showed the passages the ghouls used to get around the mall. You'll never find them on any other map. Plus, many of these stores, which are closed to the general public, have a very particular clientele base. You won't see them anywhere else."
"Like what?"
"Like a store which sells pollution control equipment for water sprites. They still have to live in that mess and want to keep their part clean."
Dion went on to tell him about the cafeteria for vampires and the anti-surveillance store for ghosts. It seemed the specters were fed up with paranormal investigators who wouldn't leave them alone. They invested heavily in auto-intrusion technology to have a decent afterlife.
"They're pushing for a lot of the counter-surveillance equipment on the market. The specter detectors still don't understand why they were able to get voice recordings in graveyards up to three years ago, but can't get a thing anymore. The ghosts found ways to jam their devices. They buy new equipment every chance they get."
Soon they reached the waterfall, which marked the center of this section of the mall. It was built to serve as a wishing well and combination fountain with a goldfish-reflecting pond. Like many of the other aquatic attractions in the mall, it had a ledge where people could sit and relax. It was early in the day and the only shoppers relaxing where young mothers who'd brought their children.
"I could walk to the other side of the mall," Dion said. "It's a haul to get over there. Besides, the hobby shop we need to find shouldn't be so hard to locate."
As they sat there, a small balloon floated down from the skylight to them. No one saw who released it and all four of them were surprised by the sudden appearance of the balloon. I was red in color and had a small piece of paper attached to it. When the balloon descended in front of them, Lilly grabbed the paper on it.
"It's a letter," she said as she looked at the paper. "It's addressed to you, Dion." She detached the letter from the balloon and handed it to Dion, and she gave the balloon to Sean.
Dion slowly opened the letter while Sean tried to figure out what to do with the balloon. Sean turned to Emily. "Is there any reason we need to keep this thing?" he asked her.
"I can't imagine why."
"Good," he said and popped the balloon. Several women near the waterfall turned and glared at him. Dion continued to read the letter.
"You didn't have to make so much noise," Emily snapped at him.
"Sorry." It was a problem he'd always had, not knowing when something was appropriated to do or not. Somehow, Sean just never knew the social cues that guided most people through life.
"So, what is in the letter?" Lilly asked Dion.
"It was from my parents." Dion folded it up and placed it in his pocket. The rest of the group became quiet.
"So what did it say?" Emily asked. "Can you tell us?"
"It said that they're proud of what I've done and want me to continue with the quest. They look forward to being with me again. They're all right, but still imprisoned at the center of the mall in the clock tower. The managed to get the one letter out, but they don't think they'll be able to do it again. They told me I need to have all five elemental powers to free them."
"Pretty much what you already knew," Lilly said.
"Five elements?" Sean spoke again. "I thought there were only four."
"The fifth is the source of the other ones," Dion explained. "It has to do with the abyss; I'm just not sure how."
"Well," Lilly said, "if you can find the hobby store where the Air Elemental Grandmaster is located. You can at least have that part of the quest finished."
"It's never as easy as that. You saw what happened yesterday. The mall builders had the ghouls kidnap Emily just to keep me away."
"I thought the kidnapping was the ghouls' idea," Lilly said. She shuddered as the memories of the trip to the subbasement came back to her.
"They put them up to it," Dion said. "We need to see Mr. Jehuti."
"Other side of the mall," Lilly said. "Besides, we lost the map he gave us the first time, what makes you think he and his wife will want to give us another copy? Assuming he has another to give us."
"Did someone let a bird in here?" Sean asked.
They all turned to see where he pointed.
Indeed, it was bird. But a large one and it was in the pool of water where the waterfall emptied. The bird had long legs and a large beak. It resembled a flamingo, but it was not so colorful. The bird walked in the water toward them with a scroll in its mouth. It avoided all of them except Dion, whom it hopped up to and presented the scroll.
"I think it wants to give it to you," Lilly said.
Dion reached over and took the scroll from the bird's mouth. Seconds later, it was airborne. They watched it soar into the heights of the mall until it found an opening in the skylight. The bird swooped out of the mall and was last seen as a dot through the skylight.
The sounds began to fade in the mall as Dion picked up the scroll and unrolled it. None of the others noticed as they gathered around to look at it. Only Lilly remarked that it was made of papyrus, as the map yesterday was also constructed. The air became very warm inside the space where they stood looking at the scroll.
It consisted of one figure, which was a jumble of Egyptian symbols surrounded by an oval. The symbols were painted on the papyrus in very bright colors. This was no tourist replica, but an actual Egyptian document from the Old Kingdom. What it was doing inside the mall had yet to be explained. It made no sense to any of them.
Dion looked up from the scroll and discovered he was no longer in the mall. Once again, he was in the Egyptian desert of three thousand years ago. Once again, he was dressed in the simple robes of a court official from that time period. He looked across the sunbaked land and saw a woman approach him in a backless dress with her long hair tied back in a headband, which had an ostrich feather stuck in it. She held a set of balances in one hand. It was Mr. Jehuti's wife, but she was without her husband.
Dion looked to his sides and saw his friends with him, similarly dressed. This had happened the last time he'd been in Mr. Jehuti's store. The older man said he needed to hold a conference with Dion and Lilly. Seconds later, they were transmitted to the same scenario in the ancient Egyptian desert. This was where he was first handed the secret map to the mall.
"I see you're alone," Dion said to Mrs. Jehuti. Once again she walked across the sands with the aid of a staff. Dion noticed this time there was a rose carved into the head of it.
"My husband has to take inventory today. We learned of your forfeiture of the map last night."
Sean was at a loss to figure out what was happening. One minute they were in a suburban shopping mall, now they were in the Land of the Pharaohs. He glanced across the burning sands and saw a pyramid under construction. In front of it, two men looked over a set of plans as a work team hauled a stone, which had to have weighed several tons. Other work teams were busy moving stones into place as stonecutters walked around with tools to check the fitting.
Lilly knew where she was and stayed close to Dion. Emily hadn't been here before and turned to watch a boat sail down the river in front of them. She was perplexed by what had taken place. It didn't bother her, as yesterday was as bad as she ever wanted to experience, but today the sun was high in the sky and it was hot. She looked down at her skirt and found a pair of leather sandals on her feet. They were tooled to resemble lotus heads where the tops joined the ankle straps.
"Here is the map," Mrs. Jehuti told him as she produced it from a pouch on her belt. "Try and not trade it this time."
Dion took it from her and looked at it. This time the passageways and stores were marked in English. The last time it was in an ancient language he couldn't read without the aid of a seer stone.
"It's changed again," he said.
"The map stays in whatever language the last person used it. At least that is how it is supposed to work. I understand its close proximity to the ghouls might have changed things."
"How did you get it back?" he asked her.
"The ghouls brought it to us. They knew it would be of no use to them after you obtained your full earth elemental powers and wanted us to put in a good word for them. They're worried the mall builders will kick them out."
"After what they did to me," Emily snapped, "I hope they end up eating dirt."
"The ghouls try to survive as best they can," Mrs. Jehuti said firmly. "They don't have a lot of experience dealing with humans so it causes them to make some stupid mistakes. Even after years of living in the shadows of humanity, they still have to scurry out of the sunlight. You need to see things from their perspective, as disgusting they might be to you."
"They didn't look at it from my prospective when they grabbed me and I was hauled down to that subbasement."
"Again, they have this tendency to make idiotic decisions. Anyway, this is a peace offering to Dion."
"I was told by Edward that the air elementals in this part of the mall can be very deceptive," Dion said to Mrs. Jehuti. "What do I need to worry about?"
"They will use your baser instincts to lure you away. You are dealing with very sophisticated sylphs. These are not the ones that fly in an out of the windows on such a summer's day. However, they are not as dangerous as the ones that fly in the upper storm clouds. You don't have to worry about electrocution by them. The ones in the upper clouds seldom come down to earth, so it's not much of an issue anyway."
"How will I know what to look for?"
"I don't have to tell you, they will be obvious when you see them. Remember, this part of the mall is governed by the element of air. There are many ways to control it, but you have the greatest ability of anyone I've ever seen. Use your powers carefully. I don't think you'll be able to get very close to the Grandmaster right away, so plan accordingly. I see you have some extra friends along for this adventure, do they know what to expect?"
Dion turned to Sean and Emily.
"I was on the receiving end the last time," Emily told her. "I don't want to deal with that one again."
"This is my first time out," Sean said. "But I've already seen enough to keep me here for the trip."
"Keep in mind," Dion said, "it will only get worse as we go closer to the hobby shop. The air elementals don't want me to have authority over them and will do what they can to stop me from reaching my goal. They even set that plastic bull against me the last time. I was able to lead it into a kitchen store and bind it long enough to release the earth elemental they'd put inside it. I have no idea what they will try and do this time."
Lilly looked up at the sky. The huge beetle was pushing along the sun, the same as it had done the day before.
There was a commotion and they all turned to find the source of the noise. When they couldn't find it, Mrs. Jehuti pointed down at the ground. The looked downward to see a horde of small figures running across the sand. It was impossible to hear what they had say, but each of them carried some kind of farm implement and hurried on their way to a destination. After a few minutes, the tiny mob disappeared from sight.
"Ushabti's," Mrs. Jehuti explained. "On their way to some noble's tomb construction."
Sean looked up and watched a small boat sail across the sky. It contained several men riding in it and as strange half-human, half-animal creature at the prow. It seemed to follow the beetle, pursuing the sun directly behind it.
Emily wondered what she was doing in this place. She decided yesterday to come to the mall. She'd talked to Lilly the evening before to make sure her friend was all right. All Lilly wanted to talk about was Dion, how amazing he was and all the things he had done. To hear her talk, Dion was close to a rock star in looks and a miracle worked in ability. Emily had seen him stare down those ghoul cleaners, but she still couldn't believe all the things Lilly told her about the mall, what it represented and the quest Dion was on today. There had to be a reason for everything, which happened that day. She wasn't about to believe he could manipulate the elements. Real life wasn't a comic book the kids read. There were no masked avengers who changed into men with superpowers. At least not as far as she knew.
But here she was, in the land of Egypt. The sun was pushed across the sky by a bug and a boat made out of reeds was following it behind. Worse, she'd just watched a herd of gremlins run across the sand on their way to a what? A noble's tomb construction? Either she was insane, in a dream, or this place was real. The first two were bad enough, but the third made it worse for everyone. If the world did respond to the power of the four elements, why should she plan on attending college or finding a decent man to settle down with? Her dad had no luck on marriage, but she was determined to find someone to spend her life with. No way did she want to end up like her "disco divorcee" mother who had a different man over at her place every week.
She blinked and the landscape changed again.
Now she could see herself in the future. She wasn't in the scene, but an impartial observer. Emily saw herself working at a cheap diner on the late shift. She had to get home in time to pick her daughter up from her mother's. Her feet were hurt and she hated the uniform she was forced to wear to get some decent tip money. When was that no-account ex-husband going to send in his child support check? The idiot didn't even spend time with his daughter.
She needed to find another job. This one didn't bring in anywhere near the money she needed and the bills were starting to pile up. It was barely enough to afford a cheap apartment in a seedy part of town. How had things ended up this way?
Emily blinked again and she was back in the desert with her friends. Mrs. Jehuti stared at her from across the sands.
"You should focus on where you are now," she told Emily. "You don't need to look at the endless possibilities which lay before you. It was something which might happen, but that is not guaranteed."
"I'll keep that all in mind. So what I just experienced doesn't have to take place?"
"No, but it will if you continue on your present course."
The rest of the group looked in confusion at Mrs. Jehuti and Emily. The two of them experienced something, which wasn't privileged to be shared between the others. They knew the place they stood was outside the circles of time, but none of them realized how different it all was.
"Thank my lucky stars," Emily said. "I was ready to walk off a bridge rather than face that future. How do I prevent it?"
"It's up to you. I can't tell you what to do; you have to make that decision on your own. I think you already know what steps to take."
Emily had an on-again off-again relationship with one of the starters on the high school football team. It was fine for a while, but Teddy, as she liked to call him, could be demanding. She needed to bring it to an end. Or should she take it to the next level? She didn't see enough to know whom the man was that left her in that state.











Emily closed her eyes, but the scene did not come back. She needed to focus on her future, but decided to put it off for another day.

Chapter 4

"Can I see the map?" Sean said to Dion. "You've talked so much about it I want to have a look at it."
"Of course. Just be careful about it. It's the only one there is and I don't know how to go about finding another one."
"That's because there is not another one," Mrs. Jehuti said from across the sand. "It's the only one which was ever made. It's possible to make another one, but the research could take years. This one came out quickly enough because we were able to draft it while the mall was under construction."
Sean unrolled the papyrus and looked at the symbols. It showed the two levels of the mall and the two basements beneath it. The descriptions of each store and what it sold was spelled out in very clear English. The passageways mentioned by Dion and the others were indicated on the map as well. It was a huge map and had to be at least forty inches in length.
"What happens when a store changes hands?" he asked. "Do you have to get a new map?"
"No," Mrs. Jehuti said, "the map changes to reflect the new owner. You can watch it happen on the day the new store opens. It might happen today, since there is supposed to be a new coat shop going in."
Just as soon as she'd said the words, Sean noticed one of the box diagrams on the map began to shimmer. Lines emerged on it and lettering filled in the space where it was located. Before his eyes, the map changed to show the location of the new store and what it sold. If he had ever doubted the ability of the map, they were gone. Before his eyes, the name of the store spelled itself on the papyrus and more letters described what corporation owned it. The final words appeared within thirty seconds.
As Dion told him, there were all kinds of passages and places marked out on the map, which would never appear on any other one. It showed the secret entrances to stores which were closed to the humans. It showed how the residents of the subbasement moved in and out of their domain. It even showed where the power lines and ectopic transmission points were located. The four parts of the mall were divided up by their elemental designation. They had left the one for "air", just as Dion told him. However, there was one thing missing on the map.
"Why is the center of the map blank?" Sean asked Dion. "There is nothing listed here. I thought you said the management and builder of the mall resides in the center where the clock tower is located?"
"The builder of the mall doesn't want anyone to know what's on the inside. You won't find that part on any map. It's right over the entrance to the abyss."
"Even we can't find out what is inside the tower," Mrs. Jehuti explained. "Whoever stands watch over it doesn't want the inside of the tower known and has gone to extraordinary means to keep it that way. The only way to find out what is inside that tower is to gain entrance to it."
"Not even a door," Sean said. "Not a single door is listed on this map."
"Like I said, they don't want anything known about it. It's one of the reasons they've gone after Dion. When he gains all elemental powers, he'll be able to breech the entrance to the inner tower. If he gains the power over the fifth element, the residents of the tower will be subject to him. They will do everything they can to keep this from happening."
Sean returned the map to Dion. "I'm in with you all the way," he said. "This is something I've only read about in books. By the way, who was that funny little man in the officer's uniform we saw you talking to just as we pulled up?"
"That was Edward," Dion laughed. "Do you know him Mrs. Jehuti?"
"Oh yes, I've known Edward a long time. He did a lot of damage the last time he was around, but he now has a chance to fix things. Don't worry about him; he has your best interests in mind. He might have a strange way of showing it, but listen to him because his advice will be sound."
"Excuse me!" a voice said behind them.
It was the same man Dion and Lilly had seen the last time they were here.
They turned around to face him; once again, he held a set of plans. He hurried over to Mrs. Jehuti and pointed out something on the plans. "Look at this!" he said hurriedly. "The angle is too steep! I knew it! The structure will not be able to hold up under all the weight. What are we going to do? The rains will be here in a few weeks and I'll lose all that help when the farmers go back to their fields."
"Reconfigure it and take all this into consideration," she told him. "You have gone far enough with the stones to see the problem, now you'll have to bend in the top so the rest of it doesn't collapse. We don't need that to happen again."
"Of course! That's the solution! Reduce the angle of inclination so that it bends inward! Thank you, now I know how to fix the project!"
He ran back to the work crew with the plans under his arm. Dion could see the man was excited by the news Mrs. Jehuti gave him. In the distance, more carts pulled by oxen moved the stones toward the structure at a slow pace.
"It is time to return," Mrs. Jehuti announced. "Dion has the map and needs to resume his quest. Pleased don't lose it again because there is not another one."
The air temperature changed while the scene about them slowly shifted.
Emily had a glimpse of herself in a medical lab coat as she supervised a nurse and then she found herself back in the mall. She looked at her friends who were in the middle of some experience themselves.
The looked down and discovered their clothes were the same as they were when they left. They were still next to the waterfall. Mothers were playing with their children next to the pond where the waterfall descended.
Lilly looked up and saw the departing form of the bird, which had delivered the map to Dion. It was almost gone and soon the sky was devoid of its form. She looked down and wondered if there would be any sand on her shoes, but they were clean.
"Mutual hallucination?" Emily asked the rest of them.
"Only if you believe it happened in the detail," Lilly said. "I don't recall having the same dream with anyone. Ever. What happened to us can't be explained by any logical terms."
"You mean we really were all transported to ancient Egypt?" Sean asked. He looked over and noticed Dion holding the map to the mall. "Okay, guess we were."
"I'm sorry for the way I ran off yesterday," Emily said to Lilly. "But that experience in the basement was just too much. They kept me locked up down there all the time you were running around trying to find me. I don't ever want to go back to that place."
"No need to apologize. I can't even imagine how horrible it must have been to you."
"I thought they were going to build the theater into the mall," Sean said as he looked at the form of the cinema beyond the parking lot. Why did they put it on the other side over there?"
"If you looked into it," Dion said, "someone would give a very logical reason on paper which would make all kinds of sense. But I think the real reason was that it would have conflicted with how the mall was built. They don't want it to take up too much space that the rest needs."
"The cheerleaders are supposed to be here today," Sean announced as they started to leave the waterfall. "Something to do with a fund raiser for a football team. I don't think the football team is supposed to be here, but you never can be sure."
"Never had much interest in football," Lilly said. "Even when I was dating a football player. I must be the only girl in school who doesn't follow it."
Emily had a better experience with the team from the guy she dated who was on the starting line-up. She would go and experience the lights of autumn. She liked to watch the guys line up and be psyched over their game. She had fond memories of sitting on the bleachers and allowed to watch the games from up close. It was a different experience for her, but, now that she'd broken it off with the guy, she wasn't so interested in the game. Besides, it was spring and the sport wouldn't kick in again until the fall.
Sean couldn't understand the fascination the male part of the school had with cheerleaders. He wasn't impressed with their routines and thought they weren't very attractive. Granted, the professional ones who ushered in the pro games resembled perfection, but the ones at their school were far from attractive. They weren't even very athletic. He couldn't recall a single routine any of the girls had done which captivated him. Perhaps it would be different when he went to college.
Even the school didn't have that much spirit. He recalled a "pep rally" where his homeroom starred at the proceedings with bored amusement. They were supposed to get up and cheer every time someone ran around and waved a stick. They stood there and watched the guy who held it run in circles. For some reason, school spirit was in short supply at the high school. He thought it might have something to do with all the imports into the student body from the air base, university and general transfers with all the companies in the area. It was hard to feel much about a community when you just moved to it. You could tell who'd relocated into the area just by who they associated with at the high school. It was the sound of the crowd, which attracted them.
Dion rolled up the map and placed it under his arm. He knew the air elementals would try to keep him from his destination. Not all of them. Most of the elementals didn't care who mastered the elements, but he knew there were a large number of them who didn't relish control by any human. Dion had no intention of lording it over them like some master of the temple, but the elementals had no way of understanding this. And they would try to get at the map to prevent him from moving around the mall.
Lilly desperately wanted Dion to succeed in his quest. She was drawn to his sense of power and his mysterious side. Part of her wanted to protect him. She wanted to help him get his parents back. She couldn't imagine being on her own without hers. It was something too dreadful to even think about it. She stayed by him every chance she had.
The whole trip to Egypt had altered Emily's way of thinking about Dion. When she first met him, months ago, Emily couldn't see the attraction he held for Lilly. He was just another silent boy who didn't fit in with the rest of the kids. The school was full of them and she had no use for anyone who would accept their lot in life. But now that she'd seen his abilities and how he could manipulate the elements, she wanted to find out more about him. Okay, maybe Lilly had first bids, but she hadn't told her Dion was off limits. He didn't seem to be in the boyfriend zone anyway. As far as she was concerned, he was fair game.
This left her with a little problem: Sean.
Sean was nice, but lately he'd taken to following her around at school. There had to be limits on what relationship she allowed him to claim. Again, Sean was nice, but she had her pick of nice guys at the school. Plus, she'd seen the end result of nice in the form of her father who was so nice to his ex-wife that he continued to send her money in hopes she would come back home. Nice didn't cut it, as far as Emily was concerned. Control was what she needed. She needed a reasonable provider, but someone she could be seen in public with who didn't consider her an asset. Nice was for the men who did their job and came home to the white picket fence. She wasn't going to attend college in the fall if a white fence was all there was at the goal post. She wanted more and didn't see how Sean was part of her overall plan. So she needed a way to push him aside with minimal interference. Sean might have some heartache, but he would get over it.
Sean located the source of the crowd's attention without much trouble. It was the sound of clapping which attracted him in the first place. He heard them at a distance and slowly moved through the crowd to get closer to the source of their attention. Several hundred shoppers were looking at something which took place on the concourse. He wormed his way through the crowd to see what it was. All thoughts of his companions were momentarily abandoned as he went in search of a shiny object.
And then he saw them.
Cheerleaders.
Here were twelve in their uniforms at a clear spot inside the mall. Even the security guards were fascinated by what was in front. The forward row consisted entirely of middle-aged men who were reliving their youth. Most of their wives were still shopping, which left the men to roam free. Of course, they were trapped in the mall when the manifestation took place. They were mesmerized at what was before them.
Twelve cheerleaders wearing the colors of a school Sean didn't recognize. He didn't care because they were all stunning. The cheerleaders were of all races, but they had perfect figures. Each wore a thin short skirt of synthetic material and a top, which barely covered their slender bodies. Some were buxom, others slight, but whoever designed the routines knew how to work the body types into the performance.
As Sean watched transfixed, a tiny girl who looked Asian jumped on top of the pyramid formed by the others. The precision of their actions was unbelievable. No one in the crowd had ever seen such work. They were all used to the dull, halfhearted local high school shows during halftime. The best they could hope for was someone who twirled a fire baton. Even that was rare as it involved a certain amount of risk with flames. None of the local girls he saw on the cheerleading squad had one-tenth the athletic ability of these girls. Even the pompoms they shook looked to be made of gold.
Where had they come from? Sean couldn't read the name of the school on their outfits; try as hard as he might. He noticed they were blue and white in color and the name of the school was hard to read. One finally stopped and turned her back to him, which allowed him to see the name of it. He looked at it closely and finally made it out: Aerophane High School. The name of the team they cheered for appeared to be "The Sky Spirits" and their symbol was a triangle that pointed upward with a line through it. Where had these cheerleaders come from?
"Sylphs," a voice said next to him. "It's one of the major air elementals. I wondered what form they would take. Mrs. Jehuti said I'd recognize them right away. Now I see what she was talking about."
"So, what do we have to worry about this time?" Lilly said as she watched one of the cheerleaders do a complicated back flip in front of the others. "These seem harmless enough."
"Like the ghoul cleaners were harmless?" Dion said. "Never underestimate the power of these elementals. You are not seeing their true forms, I will tell you that."
"What do they look like in their natural state?" Sean asked, as he watched the tallest cheerleader jump up and land in a perfect pattern. "I'll take them in this form any day of the week."
"Gusts of wind. You wouldn't be able to tell them apart from any cloud formation unless you knew what to look for. It's why you see them in this version. They need some way to gain people's trust and get inside the mall in a corporal form. And who suspects a cheerleader of doing anything bad?"
Sean expected all kinds of things from cheerleaders. None of which he ever thought would happen in this world. As far as he could tell, the girls who became professional cheerleaders only became more unapproachable as time went on. If they were stuck-up now, even the ones of such low caliber as his high school, he could only imagine the attitude they had at the professional sports level.
One of the cheerleaders accidentally let loose of a pompom and it flew across the floor. Sean saw where it went and quickly ran to grab it. The pompom landed behind the cheerleaders and no one else made an effort. For some reason, the audience was focused on the performance before them and nothing else registered. The cheerleaders continued their stunning display of gymnastic ability while the one who lost her pompom stood to one side and pouted.
Sean grabbed her pompom off the floor and held it up in the air for the lone cheerleader to see. She spotted him behind the rest of her team and swiftly bounced to Sean. She grabbed the pompom from him and plastered a kiss on his cheek.
Stunned, Sean looked at her in fascination. She was a blond girl with long straight hair tied in the back to keep it in place. He had never looked into eyes so blue or deep. Sean's heart began to beat faster and he looked to see if Emily noticed what had taken place.
Although Lilly stood next to Dion, Sean could tell Emily's attention was focused on the tall, dark elemental worker. It suddenly hit him she had been focused on Dion all day long. Why did she even want to take him along on this adventure? Oh, yes, she had told him she needed some back up, that was right.
It was always that way, he realized. Always the "friend" to the many girls he pursued in school. Always he had to watch the girl his heart burned for run after the latest bad boy and leave him in a minute. Even at his parents' church, it was that way. How many of the girls he knew there were paired up with some gang member or motorcycle rider? Even his mother grumbled the church girls weren't the little angels everybody assumed. Oh, they were angels, Sean knew, just not the kind his mother would approve.
"Thank you so much for grabbing that for me!" the cheerleader said to Sean. "I'd never have found it without your help!"
"Really," he tried to say to her, "it was nothing, I just saw it and..."
She planted another kiss on him. "My name is Randi. What's yours?"
"Sean. I'm with...." He turned to see Emily in a conversation with Dion on the other side of the line of cheerleaders, "...no one in particular. You said your name was Randi? I don't think I've ever heard of your school before."
"It's a private one." She stepped closer to Sean and made sure he could feel the warmth of her face near his. Her eyes were hypnotic. "Could you be a dear and do something for me?" she asked while squeezing his hand.
"What's that?"
"Your friend Dion has something I really want. You seem pretty cool and could help me get it."
"I don't know...."
"You want my phone number? Maybe we could talk about it later. You drive? I think there is something playing at the 'Mont' tonight."
Randi had referenced the local drive-in movie theater, locally known as a "passion pit".
Suddenly Sean had all kinds of second thoughts. "Okay, maybe I can help you. What is it you need?"
"That map," she whispered in his ear, her hand on his back. "I really need to get it for someone. I'll be real grateful if you can get it for me."
Meanwhile, Emily, Dion and Lilly were still observing the cheerleaders' routines. Actually, most of the lower level of the mall was enthralled by them too. Dion expected the store managers to be on their phones right now with security with complaints, but something told him this was all part of a general plan. It fit in with the mall owners and their operations. Therefore, it was time to take some precautions.
He looked over and noticed a clear gemstone in a ring Emily had on her hand. "What kind of stone is that?" he asked her as he pointed to the ring.
"Topaz. It was a gift from my grandmother a few years ago. Why do you ask?"
"Can I borrow it for a few minutes?"
What were the odds? Emily had the one gemstone, which could be used for what he had in mind. She shrugged and handed it to him. Dion pulled out a handkerchief from his pocket and wrapped the ring in it. What he needed to do could damage the ring and he didn't need Emily mad at him.
Dion walked over to the line of cheerleaders who were still in the middle of their routine and stopped. They continued with their show, but fixed their attention on Dion. Even Randi, standing with Sean turned to look at Dion. Dion continued to stand in place.
Then he tossed the ring, still wrapped in the handkerchief, into the middle of the cheerleaders.
They halted the routine and focused on the bundle beneath them. One of the cheerleaders reached down and picked it up. The crowd continued to watch on in silence. Whatever hold they had on the crowd had yet to be broken. The cheerleader who picked up the bundle unwrapped the handkerchief from the ring and held it up.
The light from overhead flowed through the stone on the ring and reflected across the cheerleaders. Suddenly, the light increased in intensity and sparkle as the cheerleaders began to shimmer and change. While they stood in place, the girls faded from view. It took place over a minute with the cheerleaders losing their individual identity to the viewers until the space they occupied was empty.
The ring, held up by nothing, fell to the ground and plopped on the handkerchief. Dion walked over, picked the ring up and returned it to Emily.
The crowd began to thin out, unable to recall why they had stayed in the back of the mall, unable to remember what drew their attention in the first place. All they could remember was some kind of performance took place there, but now it was over. Soon, everyone was back to shopping and walking through the mall. The four friends remained in place with Emily sliding the ring back on her finger.
"What just happened?" Lilly asked Dion.
"The topaz. Sylphs are attracted to the gemstone for some reason. When I dropped it in their midst they all had to look at it. However, with their concentration gone, they no longer could keep up the appearance of cheerleaders. They had to return to their normal state or risk becoming bound to the ring. I think they chose the right course."
Sean joined them again, but said nothing about the offer Randi made to him. He still noted the way Emily paid more attention to Dion than him. The cheerleader had given him a way to even things out. Perhaps he lacked the charisma of Dion and his superpowers, but there was still one card he could play.
They were interrupted by the sound of applause. They turned around to see the lone form of Edward clapping his hands together.
"Bravo!" he cheered. "Now that you got rid of them, what is your next move?"
This time he wore a cowboy shirt and blue jeans with a western style hat. A pair of pointy boots adorned his feet and a bolo tie was around his neck. To complete the ensemble he wore a pair of sunglasses. All of his jeans and jacket were decorated with imitation rhinestones, giving him the appearance of a rodeo clown.
"No lasso?" Lilly asked the little Englishman.
"They wouldn't let me bring one. I was refused a horse too. Imagine this, a cowboy without a horse? How dare they?"
Dion was about to tell him it seemed a good idea when Edward cut him off.
"You do realize they will be back, don't you? Also, they will have the same form. It worked well enough, but they won't fall for the topaz ring trick a second time. I'm letting you know this because it will happen sooner rather than later."
"I'm glad to see you are so fond of us, Edward," Dion said. "Have you much experience with sylphs?"
"Not the elemental kind. But these are more difficult to deal with than anything I've ever encountered. They don't like you and will do anything to keep you away from the Grandmaster. I suggest you prepare for them. And prepare well. They seem to have a way to mesmerize the uninitiated. They'll make you all kinds of offers, but in the end it's only to get what they want."
"Why cheerleaders?" Lilly asked. "I can't understand their reasoning."
"Think about it," Edward said. "The very image of innocence and beauty. Who would imagine them capable of anything sinister? In such a form, they can have and do anything they want. It was very little effort for them to hypnotize the audience. They could have picked everyone's pockets and the audience wouldn't have moved. The power of the cheerleader is immense, and they have found a way to turn it to their own benefit."
The four nodded their heads in agreement. "They always did get the special attention," Emily said with a little snark to her speech.
"Then you understand," Edward said. He looked down at his belt buckle, which had a watch face mounted in it. "Alas, time is up and I have to go. Take care."
And then he was gone again.
"He tends to disappear like that?" Sean asked them. This was the second time, but he was noticing a pattern.
"So far," Dion said. "I guess we're stuck with him for the time being. Anyway, we have a hobby shop to find." He took out his map and consulted it. "It's on the main concourse this time. Nothing too strange around it, but we can expect another appearance by our new friends on the way. Let's go, but remain on your guard."
They began to walk down the concourse in the direction of the hobby shop. As they left their former location, a lone security guard watched them go and made a report to the main office with a radio.

Chapter 5

"Yes, I am aware of them... very good, keep the four of them in sight I want to know every move they make..."
Officer Karanzen, sitting at this desk, placed the receiver from his radio back down on his desk. His security guards were doing their job today. There were four this time, but that only meant it would be easier to keep them all in sight. He had faith in his boys, they were all good men and fiercely loyal to him. Sometimes they made the occasional mistake, but it wasn't something he could avoid. So long as they did their job with diligence, he was pleased.
This Dion and his family... he was different. Not a year since the mall was open and already a wild card to which he needed to pay attention. He couldn't believe the kid's grandfather had been his commanding officer in Korea, one of the few people who knew what happened at the Chosin Reserve. It was unnerving because he thought the man was dead. Yet, there he had been, big as life and in his face.
"You know," the man who sat across from him, said, "they are not pleased. Not one bit. They expected you would handle this kid on the first day. Now he's back and with what he came to get on the first day. All he has to do is the same stunt the next three days and we'll all be cooked."
"I tried to tell you," Karanzen told the man, "this kid has all kinds of connections. It might have been nice if you'd have told me about some of them in advance."
"It was a need-to-know basis," he informed the officer. "We thought you could deal with him without us getting involved. Now we see that isn't going to happen. We are forced to take a direct approach from here on out. Do you think you can handle his friends at least?"
"I've kept this place free and guarded from anyone who tried to cross it. No one in the country has a loss prevention record better than mine. Isn't that good enough?"
"Not for this mall," the other man said firmly.
The man who sat across from Karanzen wore a tailored three-piece suit with matching cuff links. His tie was silk and shoes Italian leather. He smoked with a cigarette holder, although he waited until leaving the building to light it. His name was Matt and he was the liaison between the daily mall management and the tower. The clock tower was where the mall builders had their offices, but no one was allowed inside it other than Matt. Most people didn't even know where the door into the tower was located. He did. It wasn't a door in the traditional form, but they didn't need to know about that.
"So what do you propose I do?" Karanzen asked. "I can't just grab that kid out of the mall without some kind of reason. I have enough problems with parents who think their darling little baby boy can't possibly boost TV's. You even show them the photos taken from the security cameras and they swear it's someone else. The only thing I can do to stop him would be to ban the little punk from the mall. I can put out a notice to the guards that he or his friends are not welcome in the mall. Oh, we'll have to deal with his family, but better that than the FBI if he comes up missing."
"Just stay out of the way," Matt told him. "We have this covered. All you need to do is have your men stay clear and let our people do what they need to do."
"Fine. Just keep me informed as to what's happening on the tower's end. I don't want any of my boys to be hit with something they don't know about. You have some cleaners or even postmen show up and do strange things, I want to know about it. No reason to get my people injured interfering with an operation from the tower."
"Don't worry," Matt said as he got up from the chair, "we'll let you know before anything goes down."
Karanzen watched Matt leave the room. There wasn't much he could do. The man represented the people who controlled the mall. He suspected they were listening in on every conversation in this place. And there wasn't a whole lot he could do about it.
Still, he didn't trust the secret masters of this suburban temple. Too many unanswered questions about their real motives. Sure, he had a decent job as the guardian of this abyss, but it wouldn't be hard for them to find someone else. There were plenty of people with his abilities out there, some less advanced than him, sure, but they would be grateful for the opportunity to have this position. Any one of his security guards might think they could handle it as well.
Sometimes he was ready just to leave. Let the masters of the mall have someone else take over this place. The constant balance between keeping the shoppers happy and finding the shoplifters was too much for any one man, no matter what their background.
He thought for a few minutes and then decided to take a walk with a few of the guards. They needed to be brought up to speed as to what was taking place in the mall. Not all of his boys needed to hear about it, just a select few. The fewer, the better. They could have a few drinks after their shift ended and he could give them a heads up as to what was taking place. But first, he needed to meet with them, and then he could decide what to do.
Karanzen was outside the mall.
It was another fine day with hardly a cloud in the sky, which was fine for him as he needed a secure place to talk to his men and didn't need any interference from the mall owners. That little jerk, Matt, was not what he needed right now. He had to deal with the official representative for the mall every week when he came by for a conference. Up until now, it hadn't been much of an issue: show the suit some graphs, let him know how things were proceeding and go from there. He wondered how Matt came by his job. Was he related to the mall builders and owners? Did he have some family connection to them? He wanted to know, but doubted there was an easy way to find out.
After Matt left, he reviewed the security tapes and watched Dion and his fine-feathered friends enter the mall. He had to switch tapes constantly into the player to find the right ones. They only had a few of the bulky cameras located in the mall and there were still places they didn't cover. The official reason was the enormous cost of the audiovisual installation, but Karanzen speculated there were parts of the mall the owners didn't want taped. The tape recorders were expensive and few malls had them, he understood this, but why did they cover only a few parts of the concourse in each section of the mall? Why was there only one camera to cover the parking lots and why was it conspicuously aimed away from the clock tower?
He didn't like reviewing the tapes here. Karanzen suspected they were watching him inside his own office. Sure, he could never find evidence of a camera of any type, but it was just like the owners to have something hidden he couldn't locate. Given who opened the mall, he didn't think they would employ a physical camera to watch him. They had other ways to observe their charges in the mall.
He looked down at the ashtray, which was made of a fine carbonite stone, and reflected the light in mysterious ways. It had the name of the mall and management company carved into it. He's seen these things all over the mall. Funny, the management banned smoking on the inside when the mall opened. He couldn't recall too many places with this rule. Why did they have these fancy ashtrays in every office and secure room in the mall? If smoking wasn't allowed, why did they insist everyone display them as a token of the management's esteem? He'd picked one of the ashtrays up one afternoon and examined it when these thoughts had crossed his mind. It sent a tingle through his hand and almost caused him to loose physical form. The ashtray was tied in with the mall builders, he was certain and it was not just a little token thing. Furthermore, when they were first issued, every place where they were sent was informed they were never to leave the mall and to be displayed in a prominent place at all times. There was even a section on the security log to check where the "mall ashtrays" were seen. A clothing store manager tried to take one home one night to show her family and had a phone call the moment she arrived home. She was informed the ashtray was mall property and to be returned immediately. She drove all the way back and returned the ashtray to her store. The next day her corporation terminated her and never gave a reason, but he was certain it had to do with the ashtray.
Karanzen saw the two guards walk up to him as he stood on the edge of the parking lot with a clipboard in his hand. He didn't know how far the eyes of the mall management went, but if they could see him in the lot, he had an excuse to be there with the clipboard. They needed to police the lot and he could always say the guards were with him to look over the sewer inlets and check on the electrical conduits.
He cursed himself for his subservience to the mall owners. They'd found him just before he was ready to cross over and made him the offer. Now he was in their thrall. Sure, he could do the nasty little pestilence tricks to transform himself into a cloud of insects, but what did it accomplish? It scared the stuffing out of most of the miscreants he caught who needed a little demonstration of his power, but it left him in a vulnerable state. He never bothered to show the security guards what he could do. It wouldn't impress them anyway. They were good men who happened to be some trouble when he found him. They were intensely loyal because they knew working for him was the only way they would ever keep a job. He had plenty of information that could put every one of them away for years.
One of his first hires thought he could lift something and no one would notice. Karanzen called him down into his office the next day and showed him, lined up on his desk, five "diamond" necklaces of the same appearance and quality.
"I just thought you should know, Amon," he told the man. "I know what you took yesterday. Don't worry about bringing it back because we've already taken it out of your locker and returned it to the case. It had no value, just like the ones you see here. They don't leave real ninety-carat bracelets out in the open as you thought they did. They don't even lock the case, so you didn't get lucky. But they do watch who from the mall staff walks around and does his rounds. I just wanted you to know, because if I ever catch you doing it again I will have to let some federal people know where they can find you."
Karanzen never had another problem with the man.
It reminded him of the last panhandler he'd dealt with in his former position.
Karanzen had been a security guard outside a store in the Washington District in Scipio. The Washington District was an old entertainment division in the city. At one time, it was very fancy and held a lot of restaurants and theaters. But the business had moved elsewhere ten years previous and the city was desperate to renovate it and get some tax money generated. As it was, the district was a tax sinkhole and the only people found inside it after dark were single men shopping at the disreputable stores, which lined both sides of the streets. Fights were common when the bars closed and shootings happened on a regular basis.
An older restaurant got it into its mind to hire him as a parking lot attendant and security guard for the weekend. Business was dropping off because people didn't like to be hassled by the street people who lined the block every time the police car left to deal with another issue. As soon as the cops left, out would emerge the mentally ill and mendicants. The state hospital decided the year before to release many patients to group homes. Many had been patients for years. This was humane, but it meant many people were walking the streets that needed better care. Many people who babbled at the air.
Karanzen's job was to make sure they left the patrons alone. He's just finished his latest stint with a security guard company and hated the low pay. This job didn't pay much better, but at least he wasn't stuck riding around from one rabbit-tripped alarm to the next. At one point, he thought about mowing the weeds around a bus under his watch because he was tired of the animals using it as cover. They slipped under the gate where they would inevitable set off an alarm. The company who employed him didn't care because they made extra money each time the alarm was tripped. He cared because every time an alarm tripped he had to haul rubber across town and respond to it.
For his latest position, most of the time he didn't have any trouble. The street people would see him and scuttle away, to bother someone else for spare change. One look at his black uniform and silver badge was enough to send them in full retreat. Every now and then, one of the miscreants would stop at the edge of the block and yell. He didn't care so long as they stayed away from his turf. After he'd ambushed one of them the first week he had the job, they stayed away.
This particular night he was on his way to work and was out of uniform. Karanzen would park in the back of the restaurant most of the time, but this evening he was forced to take a bus into work because he needed to get his car repaired. He had non-standard windbreaker jacket and pair of rumpled pants. His uniform he never wore outside of work and always kept it in the same locker room the cooks used.
He was on his way down the street to the restaurant, ready to start his shift when a familiar tone rang behind him. "Excuse me, sir," the voice said, "I wonder if you could help me."
Karanzen turned around to face a slovenly dressed white youth with a silver pendant dangling from his neck. The man appeared to be twenty years of age and was in bad need of a shower. Karanzen felt his blood pressure begin to rise. He'd seen this punk on the roam outside his place of work. The kid stayed far enough away from the parking, so he had no idea how Karanzen appeared up close. This was the reason for a very bad mistake he'd just made.
"I need fifty cents," the man said to Karanzen.
"What do you need it for?"
"A pizza. I'm hungry and need to buy a slice of pizza."
"Really?" Karanzen snapped back at him. "I'll go buy you one. I don't start work for another half hour. Come on; let's go get you something to eat."
The young man's face changed instantly. "Uh, no, that's alright, I'll be moving along."
Karanzen could tell the panhandler's eye had spotted another mark and he was about to move on. The young man tried to move away from him, but as he did, he felt a vice tighten around his shoulder. As he winced in pain, he turned around and saw a hand clamped on him.
"Where you going? I thought you were hungry and wanted something to eat. Are you going to turn down my hospitality?"
"Please," the mendicant said, "I need to go. Please, I didn't want to start anything..."
Karanzen saw his opportunity. There was an alley between the nearest two buildings and it was still too dark for anyone to see what was about to happen. As the young man struggled, he pulled him to the passageway between the two buildings.
Karanzen slammed him up against the wall and starred right into his eyes. "You know what, sonny boy?" he snarled at him. "I think you have been driving business away from my boss because you don't like to work. I think you have some serious issues which need addressed."
"Please," he cried out, "just let me go." The young man didn't think the man who held him to the wall could see his hand slip down to his pants' pocket, but he was wrong.
The knife hit the ground as Karanzen used his other hand to smack it out of the street person's hand.
"Not smart, punk. You lied to me about being hungry didn't you? Now why don't you look into my eyes and tell me the truth?"
He looked into Karanzen's eyes and watched the pupils disappear. They were replaced by the image of something that had no form a sane mind could comprehend.
No one was close enough to the alley to hear the screaming, which lasted for a good two minutes. When it ended, Karanzen continued on his way to the restaurant and his shift, a big smile on his face. The day had turned out decent after all.
Three days later the state hospital took in a new patient they'd never seen before. The police brought him in and let the orderlies strap him down as the young man was found walking down the street while crying at shadows in the air. He claimed the ground was full of tiny creatures who were laughing at him. It took a long time for the duty physician to get his hysterics under control. It was another three months before they located his wealthy family in New York and told them their wayward son was located in Scipio, Ohio.
A few minutes later, two of his boys, Lab and Woody, were with him walking around the outside of the mall. To everyone coming inside the mall, they appeared to be on their rounds, in the performance of some job crucial to the security of it. One or two people stopped and asked them if everything was all right, Karanzen assured them he was in the process of checking out some electronics in the lot. It satisfied them and he continued on his tour with the two men.
"The mall owner is not happy about what happened yesterday," he repeated to them from the message from Matt. "We need to do better if all of us want to continue working here. I happen to like my job and I don't need to worry about making the people in the tower mad."
"I don't know what else we can do, Boss, "Woody said to him. "We did everything we were supposed to do yesterday. No one was hurt and you had those kids in your office for a while. I thought everything was fine."
"They've got it in for those two. I don't know why, but they don't want me to ban that kid Dion or any of his little friends from the mall. They seem to think they can handle the situation better than I can. Fine. We'll be on standby until they want us. In the meantime, continue to watch them and look out for anything funny. Keep in mind there are four of them today."
"Funny like those cheerleaders who just disappeared?" Lab asked him. "They just popped away when that Dion kid faced off to them. The weird thing was that no one seemed to act as if anything strange happened. The audience walked away as if they'd never been there."
"Keep a record of those kinds of incidents," Karanzen said to them. "I want to know about them. The management may be playing with fire and I don't want to get burned."
"What do you think they might be up to?" Woody asked. He tended to be the suspicious one. Years of clandestine missions in the jungles of South East Asia had taught him not to ask too many questions. It also made him suspicious of the motives of anyone who gave an order.
"I'm not sure. I don't like it, I will tell you that. Right now, we work for the mall directly, I'm sure they'd like to save money and hire an outside security contractor. If that happens, we'd all have to find new jobs. Not right away, but I can assure you they would try to replace every one of us."
"Not always." It was Lab, who looked on the positive side of life. "I worked for a post lieutenant who kept his job through five different contract companies. He had some inside with the plant management so they always had him appointed as lieutenant."
"I don't think we'd be so lucky," Karanzen told them. "Just watch for anything strange and careful what you say inside the mall. Too many ears in those cornfields. I don't worry out here because I doubt the management can reach this far. But I can't be sure. If I suspect anything else we might have to start meeting off-site."
He didn't tell them what he knew about the nature of the mall. All of them would quit if they realized they were positioned over the abyss. Who would stick around if they knew they were supposed to guard the passage over the bottomless pit of midnight? He felt guilty not telling them the truth, but the truth was more than anyone of them could tolerate. Even he couldn't fully deal with the truth and he knew what the mall was all about the day they hired him.
Karanzen closed his eyes and tried to forget the day Matt had found him living in the van near the Atlantic shore. He's been sleeping in it every night since the dreams started. The dreams, which took him, back to Korea and human wave assaults. Every night he would find himself walking out from behind the tank to see the endless wall of Chinese soldiers walking down the hill in his directions with their bayonets fixed. He couldn't tell them about it, not the gunfire and the solid steel pin of fear that went through him when he saw what he was up against. Not the cries of his men as he turned and ran in the other direction. No one knew about it, except Matt when he knocked on the side of the van and told Karanzen he had a job for him.
"You alright, Boss?" Lab asked.
Karanzen opened his eyes and saw the two men starring at him. "I'm fine," he said and turned in the direction of the mall. "I thought about another meeting after work, but I'll hold off for the time being."

Chapter 6

"I think we need to go back and see Hobbs." Dion said to his friends as they wandered through the mall.
Something seemed very wrong about the atmosphere of the mall. Dion had the map and knew where the location of Jupiter Hitch's hobby store could be located, but the cheerleaders' sudden appearance worried him. The elementals knew he was there and would do everything possible to keep him away from the Grandmaster. Plus there was the issue of the security guards.
"Why do we need to go see him?" Lilly asked. "You need to buy something else from his store?"
"I might. I'm not sure about the kind of people who are inside this mall. He might have something to help me plan things out today. If anyone would have what I needed, it would be him."
"That short guy who runs the head shop?" Sean asked him. He wasn't sure if Dion had noticed him talking to the cheerleader Randi or knew that she wanted to get the map away from him. It still sickened him that Emily paid Dion so much attention. Why? Couldn't she just leave him to Lilly? What was it that these girls had to compete for attention? It made no sense to him.
"That's the man I'm talking about," Dion said. "We need to go back to the other side of the mall and have a word with him."
The trip to the part of the mall where they had been the previous day went quick. Lilly noticed a few of the ghoul cleaners who bowed to Dion as they went past, but otherwise didn't say a word. The whole atmosphere changed in this section once they were inside it. Dion was master of the earth elementals and they were prominent in this section.
She also noticed the bull platform was gone, hauled off since it hadn't done what it was supposed to do. Even the pharmacy where he'd been bestowed with the full powers of the earth elemental was closed. There was an "On Vacation" sign on the window with a notice of who to call until the owner returned. Lilly wondered if the owner, the Earth Elemental Grandmaster, Athena West, hadn't planned that vacation a long time ago and waited until Dion came to her before she took it.
Emily found the little underground shop where Dion took them to be funny and amusing. It wasn't the sort of place she would have willingly spent much time, but she enjoyed it. She liked the abundance of black light posters on the wall and the record bin full of ninety-nine cent specials. Then there was the stuffed bear at the front. It, like everything else, was for sale. But nothing had a price tag she could find. What matter of store lacked price tags? What kind of place was this?
"Hello again, Dion," the short man from behind the counter said. "I see you have some more friends with you. How did the seer stone work out?"
"Good, I have it in my pocket today, although I don't think I need it. We have the map back and the lettering is stuck on English. Is it locked in place because of the stone?'
"No. The stone makes it possible for the holder of it to read the map and anyone close to him or her. If you can read the map and not hold the stone, then the map was fixed on the last language used. It depends on the map, but most of the maps made for what you are using it don't have that ability."
Sean had found the aquarium with Emily. Both of them were looking at the strange creature inside it. Sean tried to move close to her, but she only let him casually make contact. The moment he brushed up against her, she pulled away. He doubted she would do that if Dion bumped into her.
"You have any idea what this thing it?" she asked Sean. "It doesn't appear to be a mouse or any kind of rodent I've ever seen. Wait, I think there it is again."
The creature poked its head out of a hole and crawled over to a water pan where it took a long and slow drink out of it. Now that she could see it better, Emily realized it was some sort of lizard. It only had two front legs, but resembled a reptile in every other fashion. It was about ten inches long and turned to look at her with a scowl. Whatever it was, the creature didn't seem to like them starring at it.
"A tatzelwurm," Hobbs called out to them. "Be careful and don't get too close. He's harmless most of the time. I keep him around because he lets me know if anyone is trying to shoplift."
"It can do that? How would it know?"
"Go ahead and reach behind the counter," Hobbs told her.
Emily shrugged and stuck her hand on the other side of the glass case.
The moment her hand touched the other side of the case, the creature in the aquarium turned and looked at her. She looked back at Hobbs with a "Well?" expression on her face. Nothing had taken place.
Then a loud wail came from the aquarium, which caused every other customer in the store to turn in its direction. The wail emerged from the small lizard inside it. As Emily jumped back, she heard it continued to make the wail with its snout open. How could a little thing like that make such a loud noise? The moment her hand was down by her side, the wail began to die down. Soon it was gone, but the tatzelwurm continued to glare at her, its tail twisting inside the aquarium.
"Now do you understand?" Hobbs said. "Just don't do it to spite him, because then he'll get really mad."
Emily backed away slowly from the tank and walked over to Dion. Sean followed. He made a mental note of how she'd instinctively gone to Dion and ignored him when she was frightened.
What am I, invisible? he thought to himself. All this time and she still can't fall back to me when she's scared. It made him recall all the other times Emily had called him for support, only to find reasons not to take his calls later.
"Where did you get that monster?" Emily asked Hobbs. "That thing scared me to death with that scream."
"I thought it was time I showed him off. I'm sorry if he frightened you, but it's been too long and people tend to forget he's in the aquarium."
Hobs turned back to Dion. "So what did you need this time?"
"Those security guards are a nuisance," Dion explained. "Whoever owns this mall has them following me all over the place. Every time I turn around, they are there. Do you have something which will let me know when they're about to show up?"
"I have just the thing for you," Hobbs announced as she ducked below the level of the counter again and brought up another carved box. This box was much larger than the last one and he sat it again on the counter. As the four friends looked on, Hobbs unlocked it with a key from a collection of them in his pocket. He opened the lid to let them see what was inside.
It was a crystal ball. A plain crystal ball. The exact same kind used by fortunetellers. The ball was the size of a sixteen-pound cannon ball and polished to a smooth finish. Light passed through it, but was bent in strange patterns as it came out on the other side. The ball sat on a base of black velvet and was in the shape of a complete sphere. This one had no flat resting side ground into it. It had no fissures, cracks, or any imperfections on the surface.
"Where did you get that?" Dion asked. "I haven't seen one of these in a very long time."
"I doubt you've ever seen one like this. I bought it from a clairvoyant who was down on her luck. Too many unforeseen circumstances." Hobbs snickered on the last comment.
"So if it didn't work so well for her, how is it supposed to work for me?"
"It works just fine," Hobbs said, his hairy fingers in movement across the smooth surface. "But it won't work for just anyone. You see, the ball will tell you what you should know, not necessarily what you want to know. She bought it from some place I know nothing about, but I'm sure whoever made it knew what they were doing. You might ask how I would know this. I know this because the ball has allowed me to see things I found out later were true. Sometimes it shows me future events, but if I take precautions, they don't come true. Now how is that? If it was something from the future, should it not happen anyway? I don't know, but I suspect the ball fixes on the person who looks into it and allows them to see what they should. I think the ball is good at making estimations. It estimated that there would be a revival of black light art and I bought the stock of posters you see in the shop. It estimated water beds would pass as an interest, but they still sell in some parts of the country, just not like they used to sell."
"How does it work?" Lilly asked him.
"Simple, you look into the crystal ball. Just like in the movies. You don't ask it anything; you look and see what it will show you. If the ball decides you are worthy, it will let you see what you should know. The fortuneteller thought the ball would tell her the future, but it doesn't always do that. Try and use it to make money and it will tell you falsehoods. Too many of her customers found this out and abandoned her. Now she's selling real estate in Florida. Maybe she'll be able to predict the market future, but I doubt it."
"I don't want to look into it," Lilly said and turned away. "There is too much in the future and present that I don't want to know. I'm afraid and I don't want to know any more." She moved away from the ball and turned her back on it.
Sean looked at the ball. It drew him in. The surface was smooth and the depths of it clear. Was there something inside the ball? He couldn't tell. It was a clear crystal, but there seemed to be some reflection of light on the inside. He looked closely at it again and the light merged into a face. Sean blinked his eyes and the face became focused. It changed color and merged into the image of Randi, the cheerleader. She blew him a kiss.
Sean shook his head and the ball was clear on the inside again. He moved away from it. That thing was dangerous.
Then he saw Emily looking at Dion with the same look of longing she always showed him. She hadn't looked in the ball, but Sean didn't need to do it again to know what that represented. He turned away from the ball and faced the wall too.
Dion stared into the crystal and watched closely. He needed to know where the security guards would appear again. He might return and use the ball for more information, but he needed to know what they were up to at that very moment. He waited and the ball allowed him to see where they were throughout the airside of the mall.
The second thing he wanted the crystal ball for was to locate some place Karanzen and his goon squad would leave them alone. There had to be some place where they could go that the security chief would avoid. Within the mall were many places unknown to the regular shoppers who frequented it. All they had to do was to find the right place and make a straight line to it. But where could he find it?
Dion looked into the ball and the sparkles on the inside began to swirl and shift. He found himself pulled into the vision before him. Inside the ball, he saw a man working at forge of some kind. He had long hair and a beard to match. In one hand, he wielded a big hammer, which he used to pound at a piece of hot metal on an anvil before him. The man, a Viking from his clothing, began to sweat as he slammed down the hammer on the object in front of him. He constantly pounded away until the metal began to flatten out. This was serious work and he applied himself with diligence to it. Dion could hear the ringing of the hammer as it pounded downward on the hot steel before him.
Then the vision began to swirl again and he saw a stand in a market where the same man sold his wares. Other Vikings walked up to the objects on display and examined what he had for sale. The man who had pounded them into shape now expounded on the value of each one as his potential buyers nodded and looked them over. A few men reached into pouches and their hands emerged with gold coins to drop into the hand of the smith.
Finally, the vision faded away and the sphere was blank on the inside. The crystal ball had shown him what he needed to see that moment.
Dion looked up; he knew exactly where to go in the mall to get away from the security staff.
"There is a knife shop," he told his companions. "We need to go there."
"A knife shop?"  Lilly said. What was it with the quest he was on and kitchens? "You mean like the cookware store where we lured the bull into yesterday?"
"No, this place sells collectable knives and weapons. They have a large medieval reenactor client base. I've been in it before and the ball advised me to go there. I suspect there is something to do with what it sells and Karanzen. We need to go there as soon as we can."
Dion looked up at Hobbs. "I don't know how to thank you for your help, but I can't lug this ball around with me. How much do I owe you? Is there some way I can have it shipped to my aunt and uncle's house?"
"Don't worry about it. You can come back and use it whenever you need to. You family helped me out a lot over the years and I don't forget people who do me favors."
Hobbs closed the box and locked it. In one swift motion, he returned it to the space under the counter.
They found the knives shop quickly with the aid of the map. It showed them the best way to get to the location by way of a spotted line when Dion touched the shop's location on the map with his finger. The line drew itself across the map and through the mall, avoiding the passageways, which only the mall employees knew about. It was a simple matter to walk the distance and consult the map at each junction. Dion noticed it changed directions several times, which he decided had to do with the locations of the guards and the human traffic in the mall. It was crowded in the main concourse, as the shoppers were there to take advantage of all the sales. A few times, he noticed the spotted line fade away, then reappear on the map, and show a better way to get to the shop.
"How does that thing work?" Lilly asked him as she watched him consult the map. She was astonished how effective it was when the lined reappeared a second time.
"I have no idea. It's part of a system I know nothing about. But it seems to be actively finding us the directions we need."
"Imagine having something like that in your car," Emily said. "You'd never have to pull over and ask directions again. I used to work in a grocery store near an exit ramp from the interstate. We had to give people direction four and five times a day who were lost. With this map, it would never happen. All they would need to do would be to ask it for a location."
"It'll never happen," Sean spoke up as they looked at the map. "No way would the map companies every allow that to take place. Not to mention all the stores which depend on people wandering in, trying to find something that isn't there?"
"At least it works for us," Dion said. He rolled the map up and placed it under his arm. Now that he had a chance to see what it could do if it was truly needed, he understood why so many of the elementals wanted to get it away from him. The map was a unique device and was worth its weight in gold many times over.

Chapter 7

Sharper Edges stood in front of them. In the display case a selection of bladed instruments were available for passer-byers to look at. Some were fancy, some plain, but all were the product of exquisite craftsmanship. They could see the blue reflection in some of the weapons at the distance and admired the scabbards and other accessories, which went with them. So far, they did not see any of Karanzen's men anywhere around the store, but they might show up without warning.
Thor Chariot stood at the counter where his wares were on display. He watched the four young people enter the small knives shop he maintained inside the mall and looked at the display. Thor liked to stay on the customer side of the display cases as it allowed him a chance to interact with his potential buyers. This was his first store inside a shopping mall and he had a difficult time when he bought the permits to open it. The local zoning board looked at a knives store only slightly better than a tattoo shop and those were restricted to outside the township limits. It took him an entire day and a suit with tie to convince the hearing board his knives were works of art and would not be coveted by the average street criminal. It was only when he offered to post a large indemnity bond they relented and approved his permit to sell edged artisanal creations in the mall.
He'd expected these four. Something was in the air today. The people who worked in the mall, both human and not, told each other what was going on at any given time. There was an informal network of gossipers who were sure to let the store managers and their employees know if gangs of shoplifters or building inspectors were on the prowl. The mall was free of most thieves because the ones which escaped, or were lucky enough to be arrested, warned the others what waited for anyone who was caught. No one wanted to spend an hour or two in Karanzen's holding cell. It wasn't what was done to you; it was what you saw while you were inside it.
Thor was aware of the true nature of the mall and what it hid the first day he opened his store. He cast the runes on the counter that day and they told him all he needed to know. The place stood over an entrance to something ghastly. It seemed Valhalla was relocated and placed on the plains of Ohio for people to find at their own pace. But something was brewing inside that clock tower and he didn't like it. Should the sensations he received become too intense, he would look elsewhere for a store location.
The word on the sales floor was that the mall management had it in for some tall kid who would be in the mall all week. He was trying to find something and they didn't want him to locate it. What it was, no one knew, but the cleaners had unsuccessfully tried to keep him from reaching a pharmacy in the other section of the mall. Today he was in Thor's side of the mall and things were stirring in the air. He'd seen the cheerleaders with a whole group of enthralled men who watched them in silence as they did their routines in the main concourse. It wasn't the sort of thing the mall management would normally permit, so they had to have some kind of reason to have them there.
"Would you like to see anything?" he said to the group as they walked inside. "We have some of the finest steel on this side of the planet."
Dion walked over the nearest case and looked inside. The prices were steep, but he could see the signs of the metal folding in some of the knives. He noted the expert care which went into the construction of the handles. Each of these weapons was designed to hold up under the worst situations imaginable. Not one of these blades would snap if pressure were applied to them.
Emily couldn't understand the reason for this shop, but she followed Dion into it because he said the security staff wouldn't come inside. Right now, there were no other people in it besides themselves.
Sean was surprised at how Emily reacted to the display of cold steel. She walked around and looked at each one with keen interest. For the first time she turned her attention away from Dion and stared at the edges and patterns before her. None of them could be handled unless the storeowner took them out of the case, but it didn't stop her from gazing over them. The knives and swords, which he had on display behind him, held her fascination. What was it that attracted her attention in a way he'd never seen until now?
"And you must be the kid who has attracted the mall management's attention," Thor said to Dion. "I don't know what you did, but they are looking for you today. They don't seem to want to prevent you from coming into the mall, which makes me believe you're not a thief. So you must have something they really want down in the tower."
"It's what they don't want me to possess," he said. "There are places in this mall they never want me to reach. If I succeed in my quest, they never will be able to carry out all their plans."
"Plans? What kind of plans? I didn't think that bunch in the tower cared about a thing other than the bottom line."
"I'm not sure what they're up to," Dion said. "But whatever it is, they want me out of the way. They'll do anything to keep me under control. Right now, they've managed to get several people into the mall I need to see. So long as I have to see them, they can control my access."
"How long have you had this store?" Sean interrupted. "It looks pretty new."
"Five weeks, at this location. I was in several places before I signed the lease for this one. I hope I made the right decision coming here. The foot traffic is much better than the old place, but the sales haven't picked up that much. I'll see how they look in the upcoming months. I had three other locations before I came here. None of them seemed to generate the foot traffic I needed to make this a going concern. Two of them had enough space for my foundry, but I've since moved all my equipment out to a shed behind the house where I live. I decided it was time to separate the production end from the sales part. I spend two days in the shop and five here. Haven't had a vacation in years, but it's the price you pay for being your own boss. I spent years on the renaissance fair circuit chasing sales that way, but I got tired of all the moving around. Finally decided to settle down in one location and here I am."
"Wow," Sean said, "you've always made swords and knives for a living? That is so cool. It sounds like the life we'd all like to lead."
"Not so exciting when you have to get a blade forged to have something to sell because you don't have any money left to pay bills. I've been up until two in the morning pounding steel because I needed inventory for a show. I've worked as a vendor all weekend only to have one sale, a ten dollar polishing cloth. But at the same time, I've sold enough steel in one hour to make the next month tasty. You can never tell in this trade how you will do from one year to the next. And by the way, I've done a lot of jobs beside this one while I was learning the trade."
"What kind of work did you do besides this?" Emily said. This Viking, or whatever he was, seemed pretty cute and she wouldn't mind spending more time in the store.
"I had plenty of stupid jobs," Thor told her, "but the one I liked best was being a stunt dummy for the cops. I'd go back and do that one again because it was fun."
Now the rest of the group was interested. There was no one else in the store and Thor leaned back on the counter and began to spin his tale. He'd told it so many times that he could recite it in his mind. He didn't care, the day was slow and they seemed to want to hear it.
"I was working nights at a diner as a cook while I built my stock of knives up. One day I had a customer come into the diner and start talking about how he was a professional target for the cops. I couldn't believe what he told me. It turns out when they train cops; they use Hogan's alleys or mock-ups of buildings and cars for them to simulate real situations. The guy belonged to some kind of actor's guild, which hired themselves out to the cops for training. You see, they need to make these scenarios realistic to be useful. So what do they do? They hire people to be the bad guys in the getaway car or the bum on the couch who has to be woken to tell them where the suspect is hiding. It sounded like fun, so I asked him if he was looking for anyone. This was before I had the long hair and beard, but I guess I look enough like a bad guy so he hired me on the spot. It was a great job for about a year, I had a blast."
"Sounds dangerous," Lilly said. It wasn't her idea of a career to be smacked around by the men in blue with guns. It sounded downright scary.
"Not really. The guns are using blanks and they're not even allowed to use those most of the time. My last time I was playing a guy passed out on the couch at a party because they were trying to find a drug dealer. I was supposed to play possum and they were going to force me to wake up and give some information. When I sat up, a man jumped out from behind another couch, aimed a wooden pistol at the cop trainees and yelled 'Bang! Bang! Bang!' By the rules of the scenario, they were all dead and had to start over again. Also, I got to play the chase vehicle with a beat-up Ford while some rookie cops ran after me in an old cruiser. They managed to force me off the road, and then they had to use the proper method to get me out of the vehicle. Failed that one too when I pulled a dummy gun out of my waistband, pointed it at the cop walking up to me and said 'Dead!' Yeah, it was a lot of fun, but my own calling needed attention and I had to quit."
"Well, at least you get to do what you want to do," Sean said. "We're about to graduate high school and I don't think any of us know what to do. Except Dion." Sean glared at Dion with the last few words.
Emily noted Sean's animosity, but said nothing about it. She knew there was no love lost between the two, but it was too bad for Sean, as he'd agreed to come along. For all she cared, Sean could be trained as an Elvis impersonator.
"It's not a bad career," Thor told them, "but I wish the money was better. At least I had some careers before this one to compare. Again, the police dummy was fun, but it made me worry about the cops."
"Why?" Lilly asked him.
"The ones with a military or previous cop background had some smarts. The ones right out of college who'd decided they wanted to be a cop; they had a long way to go. It takes years to build up those survival skills. I worry there are too many of them who are going to make a wrong move because they're too new to be on the street.
"I'll keep it in mind," Dion said. He still didn't understand why neither Karanzen nor any of his security staff would come into the store. It made no sense, but perhaps there was some contradiction in this part of the mall which kept them out. He reminded himself to look it up when got home. There was a well-thumbed copy of the 141414, or The Elemental Worker's Desk Reference in his room. Supposedly, they were coming out with a new edition. This one weighed in at ten pounds, he couldn't fathom how heavy the next one would be.
Dion turned to the windows. Still no sign of the security staff. Good. They could leave this place and get over to the hobby shop where Jupiter Hitch worked. If everything went according to plan, perhaps he could get home by the early evening and figure out how to find the next Elemental Grandmaster tomorrow.
"Thanks for your hospitality," he told Thor, "but we need to keep moving. Our destination is down the next hall and we need to get there before the mall comes up with another barricade. It seems to be good about throwing them up in my way."
"Sometimes I think there is no mall management or builders," Thor sighed. "I can't help but wonder if this place just grew overnight and we're all inside the belly of some primordial monster. No one has ever seen the mall managers and I'm not sure they even exist."
They left the store and proceeded down the hallway where the hobby shop was located.
Emily didn't know a lot about hobby shops, they seemed to appeal to the boys in her school, although they quit using them after a certain age. She remembered a few kids down the street who were heavily into model rocketry and who scared the stuffing out of her father when one of their attempted launches went off course and landed in their backyard. The kids jumped the fence the next minute and retrieved it, but not before her father had yelled at them.
She watched a few of their launches, some that had better success than the one which landed in her yard. To hear the kids tell it, they were going to the moon. It all seemed like a big Fourth of July show to her, with the exception of the colored sparklers. Soon, the neighborhood kids had moved onto something else and were no longer interested in the space patrol. But the memory of rockets into the sky remained with her.
All I have to do is get the map from him, Sean thought to himself. Just get the map away and hand it to that cheerleader. So easy. Then what would Emily think when her beloved Dion didn't have so much power after all? It sickened him that Dion could get those girls to swoon over him just by walking into the room and he had no way to get them to look in his direction. All he had to do was find a way to get it out of his hands and transfer it to Randi.
Dion felt something from Sean. He couldn't put a name to it, but this kid Emily had dragged into the quest seemed to have something going on inside him that wasn't good. It was a brooding nightmare and he could feel it. There was something very wrong with his head and the way he looked at the world. What the hell was wrong with him? Why couldn't the girls see it? He could understand why Emily wouldn't notice anything, but Lilly? She was very close to him. He could feel her attraction and enjoyed the sensation. Emily, she had some pull in his direction too, but it wasn't as intense as what he felt from the other girl. Funny how he could start to feel these things, it had to be a by-product of his years of elemental studies.
Dion made a mental note not to turn his back on Sean or drop guard. If he was under the influence of some elemental, he could easily betray them all and never realize it. He made certain to keep him in visual range at all times.
A few minutes later, they came to the hobby shop. Dion stopped everyone and looked around the perimeter. He wanted to make sure no further surprises awaited them. After yesterday's unexpected interference from the ghoul cleaners, he was ready for everything. He closed his eyes and concentrated with his other senses, but felt nothing. The only movement he saw was from a small shop, which sold wristwatches, on the other side of the hall. There was only one lady working inside in it and she didn't pay him any attention. If the elementals or mall has something planned, he was unable to figure out where the attack would originate. For now, it appeared they were holding back. Which was fine with him.
Dion walked right up to the store and pushed on the door. It didn't move at all. He pushed on it again and looked down. He turned the clasp was turned and found the store was locked. Dion turned and saw the notice in the door: "Back In Thirty Minutes".
"The mall won't like that," Lilly said to him when she saw the sign. "He could get fined for not being here when he's supposed to be. They don't like it when the store doesn't open on time. Shoot, even the security guards walk around and note what time these places are open. It's part of their contract and I would expect he'd know it."
Dion rubbed his hand on his forehead. "Unless this is a plan by the mall to delay everything," he said. "Get the owner away from the store so I can't meet him and have my second mastery handed to me."
They stood there in front of the store and waited. "He'll have to come back eventually," Lilly said. "You think it might be safe to stay here and just wait for him?"
"I'd like to, but I'm not sure if that is such a good idea with these elementals trying to get in the way. I can guarantee you that the mall is behind his absence. They probably have him down in an office right now going over a list of stupid issues they want him to see just to get him away from the shop. They might have found a reason to get one of his employees out of the way too. I wouldn't put it past them."
It was Emily who first saw the cheerleaders. They didn't appear at once this time, but out of the crowd. She saw the first one walk up to them and stop. Then another one came down the hall and blocked their retreat in that direction. Another appeared from the other side and stood watch in the other direction. More of them emerged from the crowded shopping mall and filled in the gaps between the first two and the rest. Soon, there was a solid cheerleader semi-circle that surrounded them. The shoppers knew to avoid them and continued to walk past the half circle as they made a barrier around the four friends.
Sean stood close to the one called Randi. He was closer to her than any of the other cheerleaders. She looked at him with her deep blue eyes and he felt his knees go weak. He turned and looked at the people he stood with and noticed Emily sliding up to Dion for protection. Lilly was already holding onto his hand from the other side. Sean felt his inner rage take control of him. Oh, it was fine for Emily to drag him along to this for a small thing, but if she was really scared, it was Dion she ran to for help. Not Sean who'd carried the banner for her longer than he could remember. What was it that made her look down on him? Perhaps it was the time his mother browbeat him into calling her to come along to a family picnic. They'd only gone out once, but his mother decided that, since his cousins had girlfriends along, so should he. Sean was humiliated and he knew all his mother wanted to do was show her off. And perhaps let everyone know her introverted son was halfway normal. It never happened and it was months before he could phone her again. He still shuddered at the memory of calling her up from his mother's prodding.
Randi stood there and looked at him directly. Her eyes shifted in the direction of the map under Dion's arm. He knew exactly what she had in mind. She smiled at Sean, allowing him to see the white teeth beneath her lips. Sean looked across at her and saw the clear, tanned skin on her arms and the glow in her hair. She'd done her best to make herself up to be the kind of young woman Sean had dreamed about all his life.
The shoppers continued to walk past, oblivious to what took place in front of them. If someone had stopped to take the tableaux in, it wouldn't have made much sense. All they would have noticed was a squad of high school cheerleaders in their tight little uniforms standing out in front of four kids of the same age. Unless the onlooker knew anything about the mall or who built it, they would be clueless as to what was unfolding. A close examination might show the hair of the cheerleaders blowing behind them although there was no wind or air currents in the mall. The cheerleaders all had long hair, even the ones with curls. It rose up behind them in a golden and black pattern to merge into one harmonious mane. The stood there and remained silent while people avoided them as they went through the mall.
Dion turned and saw the eyes of Sean fixated on one of the cheerleaders. He realized what was taking place before him and tried to break their hold, but it was too late.

Chapter 8

The combined power of the air elementals disguised as cheerleaders was too much for Dion.
He wanted to reach across the void to his friends, but they were no match for the strength of the elementals multiplied by a factor of twelve. He could feel their energy pulse across the floor of the mall. A kind of bubble was developing around them all, with the shoppers going around them to avoid the give and play of their standoff. Dion knew he would have to fight hard to save what he could, but there was still a chance.
He lacked the power to bind them and they knew it. The whole incident was arranged to get him close to the hobby shop and then pounce on him through his friends. He could feel the cheerleaders' wills merge into each other and overpowering his. This was their intent all along: to get Dion into a location where they could focus on him and strip him of his abilities. But he still had a few games to play, they didn't.
"Don't look at them!" he yelled, but the others already were entranced by the cheerleader elementals. Sean's eyes had expanded so that the pupil almost occupied all of his eyes. Emily stood motionless with her mouth slightly open. Only Lilly turned her head away from the sight before them and tried to focus her eyes in another direction. The cheerleaders' eyes began to glow as they attempted to take control of their minds. Dion realized he dealt with something far more powerful than had ever been sent against him.
Sean couldn't hear Dion. All he could see was the eyes of Randi in front of him. She was beautiful, lovelier than anything he had ever seen before. Sean had a girlfriend once, or thought he did. He was only fourteen at the time and it ended all too quickly leaving him wounded on the inside and a sucker for any high school girl which would give him the time. Randi offered him a lot more. He could hear the blond cheerleader talking through the noise around his head. There was too much noise with the shoppers walking past and thinking about the purchases they wanted to make the deals which could be found the colors they needed to match the shoes they needed to buy and more. The noise began to scream into his head and threatened to drown him out.
Sean was in a nightmare world where the ghosts wouldn't shut up. They wouldn't stop screaming over his thoughts and they wouldn't leave his head.
All except Randi, who locked into his mind and soul. She told him there was a way out and she could help him. Sean just wanted the noise to stop and this very nice girl could take care of him. She looked divine and the light from behind her lit up her flowing hair. Her hair shimmered in the air as silk did when the summer breeze struck it.
Dion grabbed hold of Lilly and pushed her face into his jacket. If he could prevent her from seeing the cheerleader elementals, he still had a chance to save them all. He could resist, but his three friends were a different story. He would have to fight the elementals for possession of their minds. Lilly he could keep from looking at the cheerleaders. As long as he moved her vision from theirs, she was safe. The other two were different stories.
He saw Sean looking directly into the eyes of one cheerleader and she began to walk closer to him. If he didn't do something soon, he could lose him completely in the mirror maze of Sean's mind.
The elementals would find the one thing that a person desired above anything else and promise to give it to them. They would reach into their heart and make them all kinds of false hopes they had no plan to fulfill. If the victim didn't realize what they were doing, they could go mad forever. Dion wasn't about to let that happen and tried to remember how to break the concentration of the combined elementals.
Emily was lost too. Dion could see her standing in place gazing into the unknown. The elementals were pushing a lot of their power to her in an effort to gain control of Emily's mind too. They didn't want Sean or Emily, but knew they could use them against Dion, which was their intent all along.
Dion watched Emily's jaw tighten and knew she was dangerously close to losing herself in the abyss over which the mall was placed.
It was coming down between the two of them and he didn't know if he could rescue them both. This was something he had to do alone. No matter what the cheerleader elementals represented, they were nothing compared to what awaited him inside the tower. If he couldn't break their hold on Sean and Emily, how could he stop the mall builders when he was on their own field?
Sean was no longer in the mall. He was sitting in his parent's car at the local drive-in watching a horror movie his mother would never allow him to see if she knew what he was doing. But all objections his mother might have were dashed when he brought his new girlfriend over to the house to meet the parents. His dad nodded while he watched the game on TV, but his mother fawned over Randi that evening. She tried to find out what church Randi attended. Randi deflected everything she asked. And why not? Wasn't Sean the most popular guy in the high school with scholarships waiting for him at twelve different schools that wanted his talents? Did he have a whole group of cool friends who would do anything he asked? Randi was just the latest girl to bring home and meet mother.
Dion saw in horror what she was doing to Sean's mind and turned to pull him out of his fantasy world. The elemental that was in the form of a cheerleader named Randi was closer now. She reached out her hand and extended it to Sean. Dion fought the stream of consciousness, which arced across Sean to him. He couldn't see much, it wasn't possible to examine the inner workings of another soul in total, but what he saw shamed him to no end. All Sean wanted was Emily's attention and he'd been the subject of it. The elementals knew it and were using it against Sean. If they could trap him in the fantasy world, he would do their bidding until someone could pull him out.
Dion gasped and slowly pulled himself over to Sean. It was the only thing he could do. He sensed Emily wasn't as far gone as his friend. They were using Sean to get at Dion and Emily was just a sideline. Dion kept Lilly from looking at the cheerleaders; it was the only way to keep her from falling into the same trap.
Emily was somewhere else too, but she knew it didn't make sense. She was home with both her mother and father. They were a family again after all the years her parents were separated. Her father was sitting on the back porch with his arm around her mother and all was good. The barbecue was fired up and the steaks on it were cooked to perfection. Even her grandparents, dead many years, were supposed to come over that evening.
The cheerleader nearest to Sean reached out suddenly and made contact before Dion could reach him. Then two things happened at the same time.
Sean grabbed the map from Dion, moved quickly to Emily and grabbed her, then they disappeared with the cheerleaders, leaving Dion and Lilly alone in the mall.
They stood there for a few minutes as the situation became obvious to them. The air was still but people were in motion. They continued about their way, clueless to what had occurred in front of them. Somehow, the cheerleader elementals had created a scenario where no one outside of their own enchanted bubble could notice what took place. Dion had watched several people who walked in their direction turn and move away as they approached them.
The air around them continued to grow still until the mall began to fade. It became dark and the sounds of the shoppers decreased in volume slowly but with fortitude, as they became echoes and then whispers.
Lilly looked up at Dion in fear.
It was obvious to her he didn't know what was taking place about them. The atmosphere was dense and the sounds were dampened as if by cotton. Soon, everything about them had gone black.
Dion could feel Lilly by his side, but he had no control over what took place about him. Even with his mastery of the earth element, there was nothing he could do because the transition had taken him away from anything which appeared normal.
The light began to return and they found the atmosphere around them returning to normal. Soon, there were shapes which resembled objects they remembered: chairs, tables and even a floor. Light filled the room and they could see. However, it was most definitely not the mall where they were sent. This was somewhere different and outside the time circles that Dion understood. How had they been sent to this place and for what reason?
They were in a small room with shuttered windows. In front of them was a fireplace where a log crackled away. It was still early spring and Dion understood the reason for the heat, but most places around him didn't need fireplaces to keep the house warm. Most had central heating which, gas, oil or coal did the job nicely. His aunt and uncle's house was provided with a forced air oil heater, which was placed in the basement and did its best to warm up the rest of the dwelling.
They were standing on a large rug in the middle of a wooden floor. The chairs in the room were all facing the fireplace, which is why Dion assumed it was to keep the house warm.
Dion looked at the walls and noticed strange paintings of unknown creatures with three eyes and six legs. Over the fireplace was mounted the head of a tiger with its teeth posed to strike.
The walls were lined with bookshelves. Lilly could read the titles from where she stood and saw them to be printed in gold with authors such as "Cornelius Agrippa" and "Simon" displayed all over the shelves. She couldn't tell the subject matter, but guessed it had to do with their sudden translation to his point in time. She also noted all the books were of the same construction. She could even smell the leather from where she stood.
In between the chairs was a silver tea service. A few scones where on a tray next to it and the steam continued to rise from the teapot. The service was polished to a reflective shine, which showed their images in it. She noticed an owl motif on the tray and the small creamer pitchers next to the empty cups. There was a plate with piles of sugar cubes.
"You have any idea where we are?" Lilly asked Dion.
"Not the slightest. I'm guessing it has to do with those cheerleaders who took Sean and Emily. I hope the person or persons who sent us here are on our side because I don't think any of my abilities work in this place."
"Why? Is there some kind of lock on what you can accomplish?"
"No, but I don't think it works here. We're not in our world any longer. I don't know how we got here or who sent us, but I suspect we'll find out pretty soon."
Dion went over to the bookshelf and looked at the titles up close. Some of the authors he recognized. There were ones by Kenneth Grant and C. S. Lewis. As Lilly had noted, the binding was the same on each of them: fine vellum with the author's name stamped in gold letters. The titles seemed to be of less importance than the author. Most were of the same thickness, although it appeared they were all special editions. The name of the publishing house was not listed anywhere.
Lilly focused on the wall paintings. She couldn't recognize the artist, but was sure it was someone whose work she'd seen in the past. The colors used on each oil painting were brilliant and bright. The scenarios varied, but the colors used made them appear to be jungle landscapes. Whoever did these paintings had some real talent, but she didn't recognize the initials at the bottom of each one. All were framed and illuminated by a candle beneath them. Someone had wanted to give each one respect and dignity. She was reminded of the paintings in a Russian Orthodox Church she'd seen a long time ago and the way they were mounted with care and decorated with silver. However, these paintings didn't appear to be devotional, but the result of a trip to another planet.
The voice cried out to Dion as he reached out to pick a book off the shelf.
"I wouldn't do that," a familiar voice said behind them. "Most of those books have leather which was post cured by smearing dog feces on them. I don't touch any of those books unless I'm wearing gloves."
They turned around to face Edward again. This time he was wearing a smoking jacket with a fez on top of his baldhead. He wore a pair of pajama bottoms and his feet were encased in Turkish style slippers with the toes curled up. He held no cigar, but did have a glass of something in one hand. As he sipped the glass, Edward closed the door behind him and entered the room.
"It's true, you know," he told them as he tossed the glass back and sat it near a clock on a table. "Most of the time the books were done that way to counter the action of the tannic acid use to treat the leather in the covers. There used to be a profession called 'Pure Finder' where people went out and looked for the best doggie doo to use and sold it to the tanneries. Imagine that, having to earn your living chasing after pooches all day long. I suppose we all have to make money, but I've never been able to figure out a way to do it. Not much call for a mystic, I'm afraid."
He walked over to the teapot and poured two cups out. When finished, he placed each in a dish and looked up at Dion and Lilly. "Do either of you take sugar in your tea?"
They shook their heads.
"Good. I could never understand why someone would flavor their sugar with tea; it seemed to defeat the purpose to me. However, I have never been able to understand why you Americans like your tea served cold. Seems beside the point as well. Scones?"
Again, their heads shook.
"Also good, I'll eat them myself. These days I don't have to worry about my weight. Unbelievably I used to be the epitome of good health. I even went mountain climbing in the Himalayas. Had to give it up when my money ran out."
He stood up, took the teacups in the saucers to them, and handed each one a cup. This he followed with a towel.
"Sorry, I don't waste good money on paper. I feel you should clean up the mess with a towel. Saves money and is less wasteful. But what do I understand about things? I spent my youth waited on by servants. I've had to learn to do many things on my own."
Lilly and Dion took their cups and starred at him. Both had expected the transformation might have something to do with Edward; he tended to pop up at moments where he was needed, so it only made sense.
"Please, sit down," he said motioning to the chairs on the right. There were three of them and they faced the fireplace. "We need to talk and figure out what to do next."

Chapter 9

Lilly sat down between Dion and Edward. The chair was leather and upholstered with a fine layer of fabric. She felt the stuffing in it, but the chair wasn't hard. She could feel the springs in the bottom as she sat down in it.
"In case you wanted to know," Edward told them, "I had you brought here instead of going to see you. I managed to put in a request for your transportation when I saw those air elementals were about to do you some harm. I didn't have enough time to make the trip to where you were and I'm running low on my time allotment. So I sent word to the right people of quality and you were pulled out of that nasty situation and sent to me. Sorry, I didn't have time to explain it, but my time was short and I needed to get the both of you out of there."
"Why didn't you pull Emily and Sean out of there too?" Lilly asked him. How could Edward have saved them and left their friends to the elementals?
"I could only save two of you and they were lost already." His glass was refilled and appeared on the table between him and Dion. Edward picked it up and took a big sip before placing it back on the table. "They had built a trap in their minds and took them away before I could do anything. It's how you lost your map again, dear boy. They knew which one was the weakest link in the chain and they fixated on him. Emily was only a bit less weak, so they concentrated their power on her next. They would have had you, my dear girl, if your friend hadn't pulled your eyes away from them. They knew, so long as Dion was focused on saving his friends, he would be vulnerable. All they had to do was show your friend Sean a mirror of his innermost desires and they had him. They did the same to Emily, but on a smaller scale. Had you looked in their eyes too, Lilly, they would have trapped your soul as well. But Dion held you away from them which allowed you to escape."
"So how are we supposed to get them back?" Dion asked. "I have lost the map again and I can't use it to find wherever they took them to. I suspect they're inside the tower, but I have no way to find the entrance to it without the map."
"They won't be in the tower. That would be too obvious. I'm sure, given time, you could find a way into the tower on your own. They will take them somewhere else where you can't reach. They know you need to get to them or you'll never be able to achieve your abilities."
"Can you send us to where they are now?" Lilly asked.
"I can have it done, yes. But you need to listen to me. The elementals who took your friends have trapped their minds in a cage of their own construction. It won't do me much good to send you there to rescue them unless you have the key. Sean's ego has been battered down since the day he was born. His mother had constantly told him he was worthless every time he did something that displeased her. The combined effects are not physical, but mental. A person can only take so much abuse and then they start to shatter every time a rock is thrown at their fragile shell. I don't see a good future for him unless he gets away from the dominance of his mother. In some cases, the boy's father could have stood up to her, but he's become weakened too. I say this not as something you need to know, but as something, you have to do if you are truly going to help him.
And what happened to Emily is what happens when the child feels she is the cause of her parent's breakup. She has built a cage of her own inner torment and she must be freed from it. It is again a cage of her own construction, but it's as real as any made from steel. The elementals figured it out early on and realized there was a way to use them against you. They would have found some way to get at Lilly too, but she latched onto you. You were able to keep her from looking into their eyes and she was able to resist their power. I can't say what might've happened had I not been able to pull you out in time. I fear they might've returned and taken her as well. They can't touch you, but they don't have to so long as they can strike at those around you.
I have a way to distract them, but if I give it to you, you must be ready to use it. And you must get your friends away as fast as you can. These elementals are dangerous and they will use all their power to trap them and you. They realize grabbing your parents was only a distraction."
Lilly stood up and walked around the room while holding her cup. The tea was very good. She'd remembered to add a little milk to it to kill the effect of the leaves, but it was worth the effort. Lilly walked around and looked again at the paintings. Once more she thought the style seemed familiar and she seemed to recognize the artist. The colors on the painting seemed to leap out and trapped her eyes in a swirl of emotions. They seemed surrealist, but those were much older than anything she'd ever seen before.
"Do you like them?" Edward asked her.
"Very much. I don't recognize the artist. They all seemed to be painted by the same person."
"Yes, they were, and I know the artist very well. You might say he was a close personal friend."
"What's his name?"
"Edward. I'm the artist."
"Really? You did all these? I'm impressed."
"Unfortunately the critics were not," Edward sighed. "I spent a year in Austria trying to be successful as a landscape painter, but no one took me seriously. Then I came back to England and tried to apply myself to literary ambitions. The literary critics were impressed even less. I was only able to do this because I inherited a large fortune from my family and I could afford to travel around the world. But I did learn one thing." He paused.
"So what did you learn?" Lilly asked.
"I learned there was a reason in this world why we have rich people. Because without the great wealth I inherited to spend on trivial pursuits, none of this would have been possible."
"You seemed to have a charmed life," Dion said. "Did the silver spoon taste bad in your mouth?"
"My family was very religious," Edward continued, "so I have some empathy for your friend Sean. I understand the horror of having your mother use higher forces as punishment. My mother passed on while I was still young and only in my later years was I able to get away from her dominion. I lived a life of debauchery and paid for it later on. When my literary and artistic pursuits failed to bring me solace, I went after baser desires. And now I am here to help you because of the mess I caused."
Lilly looked around the dark room, the candles and the portraits on the walls. "Are we dead?" she asked. It was the only thing that made sense.
"No, I am afraid you are very much alive. You are in between worlds, which is why this place seems so familiar. I can't keep you here much longer; there are always rules to be followed. And please don't ask me about the meaning of existence or the purpose of life. I'm not allowed to answer those kinds of questions even if I did know the answers. Just bear with me long enough and I'll take you to where the elementals have trapped your friends. Just remember, they have them in a mental cage. You will have to get them out, but they can only come out by their own free will."
"And how will we free their bodies?" Dion asked him.
"With this one little object which will mesmerize the elementals to the point of stupidity," Edward told him as he held up a ring. Attached to the ring was a series of keys, and an emblem dangled from it.
"Car keys?" Dion asked. "I can lure them away with car keys?"
"Note the logo on the car keys," Edward said.
Dion took them from Edward and held the keys up to the light. The emblem attached to the keys was that of a 1953 Eldorado Cadillac Seville. It had a special emblem he'd never seen before on any car keys set.
"The 1953 Eldorado Cadillac," Edward told him. "Considered to be the best model they ever created. The only people who would possess that key set are those who can drive one. The manufacturer was quite specific about which ones were allowed on the market. Show them the keys and all their power will evaporate. Just don't let them make physical contact with the keys, and they will try to touch them, of that I can guarantee you. Once they see these keys, you must not let them out of their sight or it will ruin the effect. You must also take your friends away from the mall and let them rest until they have recovered from the mental trap where they have been imprisoned. Since you cannot leave the mall, I suggest finding a particular furniture store and letting them sleep off the effects of the mesmerization in the back room on a waterbed they keep there. You will find a place called Watermatts that sells those waterbed atrocities and I think they have one or two in the back for special customers. Tell them I sent you and they can sleep off the effects of the elementals. Then you can return to your quest."
Edward gave them the name of the store manager and told them to memorize it.
"I'd like to spend some more time in this place," Lilly said. She never knew Edward was so talented. "Perhaps when Dion has finished his quest, we can return?"
"When he finishes, I will be able to visit one more time. Perhaps longer, but the important thing is for him to rescue your friends. I don't think it wise to send you to the same location he will be sent, but there is no arguing in this case. Both of you were taken from the last world, both of you must be returned to it as well and in the same general location. No, you will not be sent back to the mall, but very close to it. Dion, you know what you have to do. Lilly, you are not an elemental worker, I recommend staying close to Dion and learning from him, it might come in handy later. Also, do not look any of those women in the eyes or they will have control over you."
"Alright," Edward concluded. "Time for all of us to go. Dion, go join Lilly."
Dion stood up and walked over to her, clasping Lilly by the hand. She looked up at him with her brown eyes and focused on his strong face. She was grateful to be sent back with him, but a little bit scared at the same time.
"You have the keys, Dion?" said Edward, who now stood in the center of the room. Lilly noticed he held a staff in one hand, but she hadn't noticed one there before.
Dion held up the keys.
"Good. By the power of the rod!" Edward chanted and brought the end of the staff down on the floor three times. On the third rap, the two in front of him vanished.
"I just hope he listens to what I said," Edward told himself as he left the room, the door closing behind him.
The scene faded back in and both Dion and Lilly felt the ground beneath their feet. Dion blinked and looked down at the blacktop beneath him. He could see the parking lot all around them and the white paint for the parking spaces. He glanced at his wristwatch and noted their actual time was three minutes difference from the moment they encountered the cheerleader elementals to their return. The sun was high in the heaven and he felt it on his back. Now he needed to locate Sean and Emily while he still had the time and ability to rescue them. Edward claimed the keys would work. It seemed silly, but Edward had never lied to them yet. And all of his advice was golden so far.
The cheerleaders were twenty yards in front of them. They were in the process of loading the dazed forms of Sean and Emily into the back of Emily's car. Dion couldn't tell from this distance if they had anything in mind or just wanted to get them out of the parking lot. What frightened him was the absolute look of serenity on Sean's face and the calm face of Emily. He'd never seen them this way before and it told him something was definitely wrong. Now he understood the "cage of the mind" Edward had informed him about. These two were somewhere else entirely.
Dion counted twelve cheerleader elementals around the car. They would only need one to drive the car, one or two more could ride-along and the rest could transform into wind gusts. Edward was correct again; they didn't plan to put them inside the clock tower where his parents were imprisoned. For some reason, the elementals had decided to take them off-site.
Dion had no way to know what they were up to, other than some other plan, which involved the abduction of his friends. It didn't matter; they would use them as pawns again, pieces in the game to manipulate him.
They'd cornered him right outside the hobby store and used his need to make contact with the Air Elemental Grandmaster to trap his friends. He had to do something, but the only tool he understood he had was the Cadillac keys Edward handed to him before they were sent back to this world. It was a crazy idea, but the only one he could play right now. Whatever earth elementals he could summon would be useless against the ones from the air.
"Stay behind me and don't look at them," Dion told Lilly. "You heard what Edward said. They get inside your mind and make a cage out of it. Look what they've done to Sean and Emily. I can't let them do it to you." He dropped one hand down behind himself and let her clasp it gently.
The cheerleaders stopped what they were doing when they saw Dion approach them. The one called Randi was closing the door on the backseat where the smiling forms of Emily and Sean were seated. Another one of them nudged her and she turned around to face the advancing form of their nemesis.
Sean walked up to them slowly and continued to shield Emily behind him. In his fist, he held the Cadillac keys and made sure they could not see them. He had no intention of playing this right away. They might want to get Lilly too, but he wasn't about to use her as bait.
"Hello, Dionnnn," a line of four cheerleaders said at the same time. Their voices merged together and created a melody of venom.

Chapter 10

Dion realized the sylphs were the modern equivalents of the sirens, the deadly creatures from ancient Greece who lured men to their death on the rocks by singing to sailors when their ships passed by the cliffs. He didn't need to put wax in his ears; his own will was powerful enough to resist them. But he understood they had tremendous power, which could be wielded against anyone else.
It wasn't just the power of their voices. The cheerleader elementals radiated innocence and purity. Dion wondered how many men had been suckered by them. He could feel the charm they were radiating at him with their unblemished skin and bright white teeth. Their hair was clear and glowed in the sun. They might be of different races, but the bodies were a statement of perfection. They showed just enough of what they had to make susceptible men believe them to be the fountain of youth. These were the deadliest of the sylphs, those who were self-aware and saw humanity as a harvest to be sheered.
"Do you have something for us," one of the cheerleaders taunted him as they began to take formation around him. Dion saw them do the same configuration they had done in the mall. Four of them approached in a line and the rest spread out.
He realized this was the classic envelopment strategy used on battlefields for thousands of years. The cheerleaders were going to surround him slowly until he couldn't find a way out. This was the deadly bowl of doom, which would turn into a trap he could not escape unless he did something. Right now, he had one weapon which was supposed to work. Dion didn't want to depend on it, as the keys might not work. Granted, Edward had never lied to him, but there was the possibility someone had lied to Edward about what these Cadillac keys could do to the sylphs who confronted him right now. It was poor strategy to depend on one weapon form, no matter how good you might be with it.
They were starting to surround him and he could feel it. The four cheerleader elementals in the front slowly began to walk to him as their eyes began to shine. Even in the bright sunlight, Dion could see the light from their eyes. It could only mean they were powering up, the same way they had done it in the mall.
Lilly began to see things in her head she hadn't thought about in years. She heard her sister arguing with her parents about who she could go out with tonight. She saw her sister asking Lilly to cover for her while she went outside the window to meet some guy. Her parents asked her where she was and did they know where her sister had gone. She was terrified for her older sister's safety and felt guilt that she'd help her leave the house. Her sister was married and everything was all right, so why was she scared something would happen to her? All she could think about was what might happen to her and it was all her fault.
Dion heard the crying sounds from behind him. The elemental had breached Lilly's mind too. He used his peripheral vision and could see four cheerleaders on each of his sides. As he expected, they'd left Sean and Emily in the car and were focusing their attention on him. It was just what he wanted, but could he stop them before it was too late? Dion had lured himself right into a trap, but he was ready to spring one on them. If Edward was correct, all he had to do was let them get close enough to see the keys. Just a few more minutes.
He could see them on the sides. There were only two on each side right now, which meant two more were moving into the rear. They thought he was cut-off and had no means of retreat. Dion heard the pair of elementals behind him sliding into position. The next thing they would do would be to advance on him until they were just close enough from each other to trap him in a circle. They would cause something to happen to Lilly and break his concentration long enough to capture them both.
He didn't know exactly what they planned, but he could pick up the strands of communication between them to realize what they were up to. The four cheerleaders in front of him joined hands and he could feel the energy crackle in the air. They were very close to the point of complete entrapment, which had been their plan all along.
Dion looked across the parking lot and realized they were in a section which had little, if any, traffic. The cars and pedestrians found reason to go somewhere else every time they drove too close to their part of the lot. The cheerleader elementals once again created a bubble around them no one could penetrate.
When he saw out of the corners of his eyes the last of the cheerleaders join hands, Dion raised the keys over his head. In that instant he felt the energy around him decrease.
The cheerleaders lifted up their heads and looked at the shiny Cadillac keys. They saw the limited edition emblem dangle from the ring. Dion could see the look of fascination in their eyes. The light, which shined from their faces, focused on the keys and what it represented. He could see them drop their hands and stare at the ring he held.
"You like this?" Dion began to taunt them back. "It's the keys to a 1953 Eldorado Cadillac. A convertible. The best one ever made. It has chrome all over it. There is tire kit in the back with big chrome straps on it. You know what the best part of it is? The color. That's right; the caddy is a nice powder puff pink. You want to drive it? Think about how nice you'll look in it. All your friends will look at you with envy. You'll be the most popular girl in school."
Although the elementals needed nothing to travel in, Dion realized they'd been captivated by the images of the cheerleaders and everything they represented. The elemental sylphs were just as susceptible to the same wants and desire as any human in that form. All he had to do was play on those wants and desires. It was why Edward gave him the keys. So long as he kept them out of their reach, he had control over them.
There was just one small problem: he didn't really own a 1953 Eldorado Cadillac. He didn't even know where he could find one. The keys would eventually lose their ability to bind the elementals once they realized there was no real Cadillac around them. He had to use the keys to keep their attention until he had Sean and Emily out of the car. Until then, he needed to keep their attention.
The bull was easier to control. It was possessed by a single elemental which wanted to get out of the plastic statue it was imprisoned in. It was animated, but his onyx stones could be used to make it focus away on something other than what it was charged to accomplish. He needed to place the onyx stones around its neck and the bull would revert to its original form. Today he'd managed to coax more earth elementals into it for a few minutes, but it was a simple task. Now he had a good twelve elementals to control and keep away. Should he lose his power for just one minute, they would unleash themselves on him and Lilly. It was a much more dangerous situation he found himself today.
"Okay," he shouted to the assembled cheerleaders, "Who wants to play catch?"
Dion sent the keys high into the air in an arch, which would take it as far as possible from the car where Emily and Sean sat. The cheerleader elementals saw it fly up in the sky and ran to be at the place where they expected it to land. At that very moment, Dion grabbed Lilly's hand and ran with her to the car where his two friends were sitting.
"I hope she left the keys in the ignition," he huffed to Lilly as they ran across the distance. "Because I need to get that car close to the mall in a hurry."
The key chain came back to earth at the bottom of the cheerleader elementals that were fascinated by it. One let out a squeal of joy when she grabbed the keys, but the real excitement was yet to begin.
Dion threw open the car door. There were no keys in the ignition or anywhere else inside the car. He looked at the floor and then ruffled through the glove compartment. The keys were gone. Emily might know, but he had no time to wait for her to leave her mind cage. Dion, as Lilly looked on, threw open the passenger door to the back seat and grabbed Sean by the shoulder. Lilly saw what he did and went to the other side and took Emily out of the car.
The elemental cheerleader who grabbed the keys was holding them up in triumph when another one of the cheerleaders tried to grab them from her. She snarled at the one who tried to take them and let loose with a solid push, sending the imposing one to the ground. However, this allowed a third cheerleader to grab the keys from her. The original holder of the keys jumped on top of her and soon the entire squad of cheerleaders was a solid mass of elementals striking and poking at each other.
If anyone had watched, the mob of cheerleaders turned into a whirlwind as the keys were sent out and beyond their ability to grab them. The cheerleaders turned into a swirling cloud of dust, which rose into the air before the parking lot and ascended to the air as the elemental merged into one continuous sylph that had lost its collective identities in a mass of anger. The cloud soon reached the sky and broke up as the sun baked it apart.
"Just keep walking them," Dion said. "We need to get them someplace they can sleep this off. The charm of the elementals won't last very long now that they've dissipated into the air. We'll take them to the furniture store Edward told us about and see that they are sound asleep in a few minutes."
"What happens if those cheerleaders return?" Lilly asked him. "Why wouldn't they try and get them back?"
"They're out of power. They exhausted everything they had today on us and the keys finished off what was left."
It only took them a few minutes to take their friends to the furniture company and find the contact Edward had mentioned when they were in his realm. The walked both Sean and Emily into the store with ease and asked for the name they'd had memorized. The saleslady they met nodded and went back into the back of the store and returned a few minutes later with an older man who wore a suit and tie. He introduced himself as the manager of the store.
Most of the people shopping in the store were couples looking to buy furniture for their new homes or apartments. Lilly noticed the sales staff would take them through an entire sales procedure, which involved selling them the most expensive item and gradually working their way down the less expensive models. There seemed to be a whole technique to what they were doing, but she couldn't figure out what it was. The mysteries of the sales world were almost as dense as the elemental one, but not so flamboyant.
"Edward gave me your name," Dion told him. "I was informed you were someone we could trust to take care of our friends until they've had a chance to sleep. He told us you have a waterbed in the back which people sometimes use for demonstration purposes."
The man looked at them, and then looked at the mesmerized couple with him. Dion could tell he was weighing something in his mind.
"Alright, I can help, follow me."
They turned and walked with him as he disappeared into a door in the back.
It was a small room beyond the storage area, which was designed as a bedroom. The waterbed was resting on the floor with several brochures about its use around it. The fluorescent lights in the ceiling were subdued and designed to give it a soft glow and served as an additional selling point.
Lilly led Emily to the bed and laid her down, while Dion did the same to Sean. In minutes, they were peacefully asleep. The manager led them out of the room, turned out the light and shut the door.
"They'll sleep undisturbed in there," he told them. "But you have to come here by the end of the day and pick them up. I'll let the staff know they're not to be disturbed."
"Thank you," Dion told the man as they left. "You've been a great help. I'll make sure to come back by then."
"No problem. Edward and I go back a long ways and he's helped me a lot in the past. I owe him quite a few favors."
Outside the store, they found a bench to sit down on and think about what to do next. It was still the afternoon, but the encounter with the cheerleader elementals left them both exhausted. Dion worried about Emily, as this was her second abduction by the elementals in two days. He hoped there would be some way to keep her at a distance from the mall in the future.
"And you're sure we don't have to worry about them while they're sleeping?" Lilly asked him once again. "I worry about leaving them alone, even under the watchful eye of that manager."
"Edward recommended him. If Edward trusts him, it's all I need to know. So far, he's helped us every step of the way. I can't complain about the assistance he's given us.
"So what do we do now?" It was a warm day and she'd worn a casual outfit. Lilly liked to appear a little better when going to the mall. But today was not another shopping expedition to the department store.
"Let me think of something. I need a way to get to the hobby shop and meet with the Grandmaster. We don't have to worry about those cheerleaders for a while, it will take some time for them to reconstitute now that they're in their original form. They'll be back, I can guarantee you that, but not today. The mall builder worked to bring them here and I'm sure he has more trickery to show us."
Although Lilly was worried about her two friends, she was glad to be with Dion. To watch him take on the cheerleader elementals twice in one day was the subject of legends. It still made her upset with the knowledge they'd been inside her head, but at least the elementals were gone. If only there was some way to get the next few powers Dion needed with ease, but it was useless to think in those lines. He had to fulfill his quest before he could truly become a master of all the elements. And what was the fifth one he constantly talked about?
"Should we go back to Hobbs?" Lilly asked him. "Does he have anything else you could use?"
"He might, but I don't want to get dependent on him. Hobbs has things in there he doesn't like people to know about. Things, which we could use to reach the rest of the elemental grandmasters without any kind of interference. But if they found out I'd made use of them, they might not grant me the ability to fully work the element they rule. They would eventually find out and pull the authority if they discovered what I'd done to reach them. They are very precise on how my quest has to be carried out. I have to accomplish this as much as I can on my own without any significant help. Having you and the others along didn't count as significant help. Summoning questionable forces from beyond with a bit of forbidden lore would not be looked upon favorably. Besides, the ultimate reason I'm here is to get my parents out. I can't do that until I have full elemental abilities."
"You told me your parents were kidnapped. How long ago did it happen?"
"A year ago. We were in California at the time. It's why I was sent to live with my aunt and uncle."
"Where you there when it happened?" Lilly glanced around the concourse where they sat. She had a strange sensation they were being watched, but she couldn't see any security guards and no security cameras were on display.
"I was away at school. It was in the spring, almost a year to the day," he began. "The bus let me off right at the end of our block and I went up to the house and felt something odd. I turned and saw this big black van pull away from the front of our house and head down the street. I didn't see the license plate because I didn't think anything was wrong. When I went up to our house, I found the front door unlocked and when inside. My mom never left the door unlocked, so I thought it was strange the door was open. I went inside and couldn't find anyone.
Dad worked a lot from home, so I expected him to be in and out all day. Mom didn't work after we moved to California and I could never understand why. My father was an engineer and mother would help him on the projects he did out of the house. From what I understand, she'd been an engineer too, but quit to help him manage the business he ran. Dad was often at some conference of one kind or another and mom would stay home and help him out by referencing whatever plans or documents he didn't have with him. Same if he was at a client's site. She would conference with him on the phone and they would work things out until both of them were satisfied. I never developed any interest in what they did, but it must have been important because they were busy most of the time.
Anyway, I walked in the house and they were gone. I went into dad's study and looked for him, but it was ransacked. Papers tossed everywhere and plans thrown all over the place. I was very worried and went to call the police, but the phones were ripped out of the wall. I went next door and used the neighbor's phone. The police came and took the house apart trying to find something, but they never did. I stayed with some neighbors until I was placed with my aunt and uncle."
"And there was never a ransom note or anything?"
"Nothing, but I wouldn't believe they were dead. I could feel something because dad was an elemental worker and I felt his trace after I came home. I believe whoever took them wanted me to be upset and give up with my training. I've learned to work with different elementals since I could walk.
Six months ago I received a note in the mail written in alchemical symbols. I recognized enough to them to understand it was a warning from whoever took my parents. The note confirmed they were alive, but warned me not to continue my training if I wanted to get them back.
And then the mall showed up quickly and I put it all together. After talking with some other element manipulators, I found out that all four elemental grandmasters had stores in this mall. This couldn't be an accident, so I began to investigate the place. Sure enough, the mall was built over something to serve as a bridge to it. I had enough ability to work the elements and find out what I needed to know. I decided this would be the week to obtain all four of my powers. I just have the one now, but I'm determined to get the rest."
"And I'm determined to help you," Lilly said as she put her hand over his.
"I don't want you to get harmed in my quest," Dion said. "I'm the one who must ultimately confront the mall builders and get my parents free. Look at Sean and Emily; they're back in the rear of that furniture store sleeping off their encounter with the elementals. I'm responsible for what happens from here on out."
"Sean was doing it to impress Emily," Lilly said. "He's had a crush on her for years. I was afraid he'd do something stupid today. I know why Emily brought him along, but I think she thrives on the attention she receives from boys."
"I picked it up too. Sean is head over heels in love with Emily, but she doesn't give any back. Maybe today she'll learn that she can't continue to play these little games with someone like Sean."
"Sean doesn't have the best home life," Lilly said. "It's not that he lacks for anything, but his mother is obsessive about him. I've seen her in action and when she is done manipulating him, he's ready to give up. The best thing about today is he might have some backbone after it's over. You don't go up against what he did and come out ready to go back to the way things were."
"On the other hand, he might be damaged on the inside," Dion said. "I'll know when he wakes up. It will take hours of a sound sleep to get him out of the trap the elementals built for both of them. We're dealing with some dangerous sylphs here and I worry about the harm they caused. Not too much any normal person can do against them. I did my best and it took a lot out of me."
"I know. I'm grateful. I'm certain Sean and Emily will be too once they wake up."
Dion sat there for another five minutes with Lilly. By now, it was the late afternoon and he decided to make another attempt at the hobby store.
"He has to be back by now," Dion said. "No way could they shut that store down too long without letting the other stores know something was wrong in there."
The stood up and walked down the hall in the direction of the store. Dion and Lilly walked across the concourse and looked at the other store windows as they continued on.
The mall was successful in luring several big national retailers into the facility. She saw the names of several name brand clothing outlets and at least one record store. The album covers lined the display window of a new band everyone thought would be very popular. Next to the display was an album cover for a band which was rumored to be another popular act recording under a different name. Lilly couldn't keep up with all the band gossip.
They stopped to look at a display of glass-blown animals, all of which seemed to be a variation on an eagle. In the window, Lilly watched the glassworker manipulate the molten silica until he had the object he wanted to make. She was fascinated by the way they could create figurines from colored glass rods, but knew there was a special technique to doing what they did.
While they watched the glass blower at work, Dion turned to see a man in an expensive suit walk in his direction. His elemental sense tingled and he was certain this was someone he knew. The man appeared to be somewhat familiar and looked directly at him. Once again, the sound in the mall began to disappear, which let Dion know there was some kind of elemental work in the building. This wasn't on the same level as what he'd experienced when the cheerleader elementals tried to corner him, but there was a level of power, which he felt for the first time from this man.
He was a young man, definitely in his twenties and with the look of someone who got what he wanted. But it was obvious he worked for someone else. This was the chatelaine of the castle, not the lord who ruled over it. He wore sunglasses inside the mall, but Dion could tell he was the subject of the man's attention. Lilly was still captivated by the glass worker, so it was up to Dion to act as a defender if he needed to do so.

Chapter 11

"Nice job," the man said as he slid up next to Dion. "I really have to admit I didn't think you would be able to take out those sylphs. No one has been able to resist them before today. The cheerleader form is the one they like to use the most because no one suspects who they really are."
"I had the impression they'd used it before," Dion said as he extended a hand. "I'm Dion, but I suspect you already know my name."
"Enchanted," he said while shaking the hand. "Matthew is the name, but you can call me Matt."
"So how do you figure into my quest?" I don't get the sensation you mean me any harm, nor goodwill either."
"I work for the mall. At least for the people who run and built it."
By now, Lilly had noticed the conversation and turned to see the suited stranger who talked with Dion. She too could feel something was wrong, although not on the level of the cheerleaders or cleaners. This man was human, but had his own script.
"So what do you want?" Dion asked. "I know what I want, how do you fit into all this?"
"My boss wants to talk with you. I'm just a corporate messenger boy today. As I said, we were all impressed by how you took down the cheerleaders. He has your map too, so it might be a good idea to meet with him."
"This sounds like a meeting where only one party returns. What if I don't want to meet with your boss?"
"Then you won't get your map back. I'd agree to the meeting, if I were you. He's willing to guarantee your safety for the duration of it. He'll also guarantee the young lady's too if you want to take her along."
"What about my friends who are sleeping away?"
"The same. He'll leave them alone."
Dion thought for a few minutes. "Tell you what... he guarantees my friends who are napping upstairs suffer no ill effects from the action this afternoon and we have a deal."
"That's a tall order," Matt said. "I have to check on it. Give me a few minutes."
Dion watched as Matt walked over to a payphone mounted to the wall, dialed a special number and waited. He had a brief discussion with someone on the other end and walked back.
"He's good with your demands," Matt informed him. "You must rate highly, because I've never seen him agree to something like this before."
"Alright," Dion said. "So when do we leave? Where do we go?"
"You'll see in a few minutes. We're not going to leave the spacial boundaries of the mall, but we'll be outside its time circle."
Dion decided not to ask any more questions. Something was about to happen that he barely understood and he decided it was best to wait and see what the man had in mind. He doubted he would go back on his word, but nothing made logical sense in this mall.
"About thirty seconds," Matt said as he looked at his expensive Swiss wristwatch. Its housing was in glass and you could see the gears in the watch turn.
The air froze around them and the landscape went black.
Dion held tight onto Lilly as they were sent somewhere else once again. It seemed the entire mall opened up to some place other than where it stood. How strange that the entire mall was a gateway over the abyss at the same time. He didn't worry because the man who ran the mall could easily have launched a total assault on him if he really wanted to take Dion out. The only reason he hadn't' tried to do it was because of the negative publicity the mall would receive.
The surroundings changed and they found themselves back in the desert. But this was not the desert that Mr. Jehuti and his wife took them, but somewhere else. No human activity could be seen in the distance and it was pitch black outside with a full moon in the sky. The stars shone bright in the heavens and Dion could feel the sand under his feet.
This time he wore the same clothes as when he left. It was also very cold outside. Fortunate for them, there was a campfire burning next to them. The fire gave enough heat to let them feel the warmth from them all.
"Sorry about the weather," Matt told them, "We can't fix everything. He should be here in a few minutes."
Lilly held tight to Dion and looked at the surroundings. They were made of rock with sand scattered everywhere. It was deadly quiet and then she heard some animal making a yipping sound in the distance. From the volume, whatever made it had to be a good mile away. The fire cast eerie shadows on the rock wall next to it.
A new figure emerged out of the darkness. He wore a burnoose around him and a turban on his head. This was the form of a tribal leader, a sheik with plenty of influence and someone not to cross unless you had plenty of your own back up. He was an older man with a grey beard, which highlighted the eagle eyes on his face. The man had eyes of blackness and a powerful gaze that took everything in as he surveyed them. Lilly felt a sharp knife of fear pierce her heart and Dion knew this was the man behind everything. Here was the person responsible for the abduction of his parents and the building of the shopping mall. He walked slowly and came up to them, as his robes made a swishing sound in the dust.
"I brought them right to the place you asked," Matt said to the man. "Any reason for me to stick around?"
"No," the man said in a deep bass voice, "you may leave. I will call you later about some other matters we need to discuss."
"All I needed to hear." And he disappeared into the night.
The man turned and listened to the noise in the distance. "Hyenas," he said as he turned back to face them. "Disgusting creatures, they are carrion eaters, much like the vultures in the daytime. I suppose they have a reason in the great ocean of life, but it escapes me. Don't worry, the fire scares them and they won't approach our encampment."
"Who are you?" Dion asked. "You seem familiar. I know you are the man behind the mall and my parent's disappearance, but I don't know your name."
"You may call me Mr. Seth. It will do for the time being. As for who I am, I am your uncle. Please don't call me Uncle Seth."
"And how do I know this is true?" Inside he could feel the family attachment. He told the truth, no matter how much Dion wanted to believe it a lie.
"You know it," Mr. Seth said to him. "You feel it in your bones, don't you? Elemental workers can sense each other. Isn't that true?'
Dion turned his head and looked at the man. He could see the resemblance to his father and other uncle. His father had not talked much about family, only the nature of their abilities. His father seemed to think that it was best not to be too close to the other elemental workers. He knew there were other members in his dad's family, but his father never spoke very much about them. The only relative he'd ever spent time with was the uncle who he came to live with after his parents disappeared.
"So why have you kidnapped my parents?" Dion demanded from him.
"You were supposed to be my son, did you know that?" Mr. Seth said, ignoring him. "Your mother was promised to me, but she decided on your father instead. My own brother. He couldn't even hold to the pact we made when we were much younger. I was enraged. Do you know what I did?"
Dion said nothing.
"I planned a party. I was so angry I wanted to kill him. I had a special car I knew he would want to drive. No one else knew what I had in mind. I rigged a bomb inside the car. I knew he would try it out and it would explode on the highway, eliminating my brother who was also my rival. It was the perfect plan. I managed to get him drunk at the engagement party I threw for him. When he was good and soaked, I showed him the car. It was a Maserati, who could resist such a thing? No one else could see us, because we were in the back of the place I rented for the party. My plan was to give him the keys and he would have to take it out for a spin. If he didn't drive it off the road, the bomb would see to his demise. I was so clever. I was certain no one would link the death to me. Why would I kill my own brother?
But your mother showed up and stopped me. She took your father out of the car and brought him up to me in anger. She wanted to know why I would do this to my own brother. I told her it was her I wanted and if I had to do him in, so be it. She was angry with me and threatened to see to it I would be banned from the family. I told her to go ahead and try.
I spent my time learning how to amass money and build a profitable business. There are many ways to earn money if you can manipulate the elements."
Now I have more money than any of them combined. I built the mall without floating a single loan. And from within the mall, I rule. Nothing happens inside this mall that I don't have some control over. I built a security force from the people who would have unquestionable loyalty to me and the mall. There are no mall builders, in spite of what people believe. There is only me. The mall sits over the abyss between worlds, and do you know why, Dion?"
Dion shook his head. He felt the fear inside Lilly, who had enough fright for the both of them.
"Because I know how to work the fifth element. I alone have learned the ability. I did it without training from any other elemental master. None of them knows the secret and thinks you have to learn the power of all four elements before you can work the fifth. But I have mastered the fifth element without any need to learn the basics of the other four. They said it was impossible to do it and I proved all the other elemental workers wrong. They hate me because of what I represent. But I am more powerful than they will ever be."
"And you kidnapped my parents because you wanted access to my mother? I think it would have the opposite effect."
"She loves you deeply, Dion," his uncle told him. "As only a mother can love her son. She's begged me to leave you alone and she will be mine. I only have to leave you alone, let you have your powers and free your father. I think she's willing to tell me anything if it gets her son back. I want you to convince her to be with me and I will allow your father to leave my captivity. So, will you do this for me, Dion?"
Dion looked at his uncle for a long time and didn't say a word. So this was the hidden master of the clock tower who had imprisoned his parents. No wonder Edward hadn't said anything about who had done it. He wanted to spare Dion the shame of knowing his own family was responsible for abducting his parents. But if his uncle was foolish enough to think Dion would cast aside the quest, he was beyond hope. The blind hatred and rage had consumed his uncle to the point he would do this to his own family.
There was nothing he could do now in this place. He was in his uncle's territory and needed to get back to the mall to find Jupiter Hitch the Air Grandmaster before it closed. Since he was in a different time circle, he could be sent back to the exact moment he traveled to this realm. But it was time to go.
"Can I have my map back, please?" Dion finally said to him. "I was told you would return it to me if I agreed to this meeting."
His uncle handed it to him. Dion rolled the map out and looked at it. This one was authentic, although he didn't expect his uncle to pull a cheap substitution trick as the ghoul cleaners tried to do. Dion rolled it up and slid it under his arm.
"Well?" his uncle said. "Have you given any thought to my proposal?"
"Uncle, this has gone far enough. Send us back and I will continue my quest. I will free my parents personally if you don't want to. I don't know who you think you are, but you have brought down the wrath of the universe with your actions. Send me back now."
"You little fool!" his uncle snapped out at him. "I will send you back and let us see what happens. You had the option to take the easy path and resolve it all. But you think it's possible to stand up to me. Go ahead and continue this pointless quest of yours and we will see who triumphs in the end!"
The desert night faded around them, unit they were in the black of the interzone. It was only a brief moment and they found themselves standing back in front of the glass blower. He finished the bright bird figurine he'd started the moment Matt made his appearance.
Dion looked to his left and saw Lilly standing with him. He gave her had a slight squeeze and turned back to the concourse.
"How long were we gone?" she asked him.
"Two minutes according to the watch. He could have sent us back at any time. The laws of physics which apply to our world doesn't hold true in his."
"Your parents never mentioned this uncle?" she asked.
"Maybe a few times. There was plenty of family I never met when I lived in California. The only family outside my immediate one I knew about was Uncle Rich and his wife. I'll have to ask him about the new revelation. I'm sure he'll have something to say."
They continued walking in the direction of the hobby shop. So far they'd not run into any of Karanzen's men, but Dion was certain it couldn't last much longer. Since he'd turned down his uncle's offer, he expected the opposition to become much worse. Dion continued walking to the hobby shop expecting at any minute an appearance by Karanzen. But it didn't happen and they continued to plod forward through the shoppers on their way to the holiday spring specials.
They didn't see them until Dion and Lilly were almost in front of the hobby shop. Dion had turned out of a hallway to enter the concourse section where the hobby shop was located when he spotted the first guard. He saw him milling around near the store but not too far from it. He grabbed Lilly and stopped.
"I see one to the right," he told Lilly.
"And I see one to the left."
As they covered their approach behind a support pillar, Dion and Lilly spotted four of Karanzen's men guarding the way to the hobby shop. It wasn't as obvious as they expected it to be. They were still doing their best to pretend to cover the entire space and acted as if they were on a routine assignment. One of them even pretended to check the key station near the stairway, but he didn't have the big round clock he would've needed. Besides, Dion was certain none of the guards carried those gigantic clocks to hang across their shoulder during the rounds. It made the place look too much like a paint factory.
"At least the sign is gone," Lilly said. "And it appears to be open."
"First we have to get past Karanzen's boys in blue," Dion said. "Earth elemental powers won't do me much good in here. I can't just open up the earth and let them fall in, as much as I might want to. Innocent people could be hurt."
"Should we make a run for it?" Lilly asked him.
"It might be the only thing we can do. Just march up there and try to force our way inside."
Then he noticed something else: sylphs floating in the air just over the heads of the guards. Most people lacked the ability to recognize these airborne spirits, but he'd inherited the ability to recognize them and take advantage of their uses. However, these weren't the kind he could use, they were much more powerful. And then he recognized them: the same twelve elementals which terrorized them earlier in the day. The difference was they were in their natural form. It would take another day for them to assume the cheerleader format, but a combined force of wind inside mall could still be effective if used the right way. He was certain they'd joined forces with the guards patrolling on the ground, even if the guards had no way of knowing they were over their heads.
"Those elementals are here," he told Lilly. "The ones who kidnapped Sean and Emily."
"Where? I don't see them anywhere."
"You wouldn't. You have to be trained to know what to look for in one of them. They're the same ones, just in their sylph form. It will take a long time for them to return to the cheerleader version, but they'll do it if they get the opportunity."
Dion sized up his chances. The sylphs and guards were out in force in front of Jupiter Hitch's hobby shop. They knew he and Lilly had to get through them to reach the Elemental Grandmaster. The sylphs were double worried because if he were granted full air elemental power by Hitch, Dion would have control over them. Bound to someone they tried to stop was not something the sylphs wanted to contemplate.
"I don't see any other way to get inside it," Dion told her. "We're just going to be forced to make a line for the store and hope we don't get stopped by the guards and their airborne allies. Come on, let's start walking."
Through the mass of shoppers, Dion and Lilly trudged forward. They were determined to get to the hobby shop no matter what the opposition tossed at them. Dion took Lilly's hand and began to walk forward, slowly, but picking up speed as he went along. They seamlessly flowed through the crowd and hoped no one would notice them as they moved along.
It almost worked.
They were within twenty yards of the door to the hobby shop when two of the guards at the same time noticed them. One of them signaled to the other and they began to walk rapidly toward Dion, trying to act as normally as they could. Apparently, Karanzen had informed them to take him down quickly, but not to cause any problems. The other two guards saw their quarry and began to walk in the same direction. Soon, Dion saw them moving to create a line of interception in front of the store.
The second thing he noticed was the wind.
The air suddenly began to blow in his direction, slowing down his rate of progress to the door. The sylphs were alerted to Dion and Lilly's presence and decided to take care of them too. They couldn't use their full wind force, as they were inside the mall and Dion's uncle would be furious. But they could impede his passage to the store.
For a few minutes, it appeared his passage to the hobby shop was blocked by Karanzen's goons and the air sprits. The combination of bodies blocking the entrance and mysterious wind blowing against him seemed to bring everything to an end. Dion was frustrated as his own air elemental ability was too low to be of much use against the powerful sylphs. The few air elementals he could summon were too weak to be of much use. The ones he was against were from full of the gale force wind.
Dion put his head down and tried to march in the direction of the store.
Then a sound came out of the other side of the concourse. It was the sound of a motor roaring in the air and it drowned out the noise caused by the wind pushing against him. It emerged from the ceiling and began to descend down to their level.
Dion saw two of the guards look up as the source of the noise descended to their level. When they had a good view at what cause it, their mouths popped open. Even the sylphs stopped working their howling wind against him and Lilly.
It was a helicopter. A small, miniature helicopter and it was slowly coming down to their level in front of the store. Dion and Lilly themselves stopped to watch it spin around the concourse and hover in place. Most of the shoppers did the same thing and looked up in amazement.
Lilly had read about these tiny helicopters, but had never seen one up close. She assumed they were too specialized and expensive for most people to own. Even radio controlled airplanes, which she would sometimes see flying around the open fields, were too expensive for most people. However, the hobby shop was the right place for someone to go shopping for one. Many devices could be radio controlled, such as model cars, small sailing ships and, of course, helicopters. She could smell the gas fuel burning from the helicopter. It couldn't have a large tank on it, but maybe it didn't need one.
As the people on the floor watched, the tiny helicopter which even had a miniature pilot inside, hovered around in front of the store, spotted the guards and immediately changed its course. It spun down at one of the security guards with collision as its intent. The guard yelled and tried to escape, but smacked into a support pillar before he could move away fast enough. The tiny helicopter missed him by a few inches and spun back up into the air. By now, people had scattered and moved away from the path of the little 'copter.
It did a small turn and went back down, its props neatly disrupting the flow of the sylphs who were in full retreat. The sylphs tried to rally higher, but the helicopter soared up to their level and neatly fractured through them. The sylph air spirits were unable to merge together and form an effective counter attack and rapidly began to leave the mall through any open door they could find. People who pushed doors open noticed extra gusts of wind as the sylphs fled the mall. They decided whoever controlled the helicopter could launch whatever attack they wanted against them. They didn't need to stick around to be broken up by the blades.
The helicopter, when certain the sylphs were no longer a threat, swooped back down at the security guards who fled to the side of the concourse as they attempted to avoid it. One guard was almost clipped as it came down next to his head, but he jerked in the other direction and managed to escape injury.
By now, there was only one security guard on the floor between Dion and the entrance to the store. He turned and began to walk in Dion's direction when the whirl of the helicopter came at him. The guard turned and saw the blades near his face and ran back to the side of the concourse, leaving the pathway to the hobby shop open for Dion and Lilly.
In front of the hobby shop, the radio controlled helicopter hovered and continued to roar out its challenge to anyone who would block Dion from reaching the store. It was silver metallic in color and displayed the masterful technology used to create it. The little helicopter moved back and forth slowly to let everyone know it stood watch over the gate to the hobby shop.
"I guess it's clear now," Dion said to Lilly and continued forward. No one attempted to stop him this time.
They walked under the little helicopter as it continued to fly in place. Dion gave it one final look as he and Lilly pushed the door open and walked inside.

Chapter 12

Jupiter Hitch leaned across the counter in his store with the controls to the helicopter in his hands. He was a large man, although not a tall one. He had thick glasses and a Hawaiian shirt on as he manipulated the controls for his radio-controlled helicopter, which still hovered outside of the store. On seeing them walk inside, he briefly raised one hand in salute.
"Just give me a second," he told them. "I've almost got this thing finished. I need to land it somewhere. It's a toy, but an expensive one and I don't want to lose it."
He made a few movements with his hands and the helicopter began to rise in the air. After a few more minutes, he had it over a service platform on top of the elevator shaft. Concentrating as hard as possible, Hitch brought it down gently on the platform where he could leave it until the miniature helicopter needed to be brought back down later. He made a final adjustment and the sound of the helicopter died down as the engine shut off.
"Glad you two made it inside when you did. I don't think I could've kept it up for much longer. I might have used all the gas I had in it just to land the copter on that platform. I'd hate to have to get somebody up there to retrieve it, but I might have to do that."
He put the control box down on the floor and came out from behind the counter. Dion saw how big the man really was at this point. He was over six feet in height and had to carry at least three hundred pounds on him. Jupiter Hitch rattled the floor when he walked. He walked over to the door and put the closed sign up while turning the latch in the door.
"I'll catch a lot of grief from the mall for closing early again and flying the helicopter, but I can deal with it. Besides, they didn't tell me what was so important that I had to run down to the security office today when I arrived. That cursed Officer Karanzen kept me in the lobby for a good two hours waiting. When he came out, he claimed it was a big misunderstanding and they didn't need to see me at all. Of course, they pulled it in the middle of a busy day when I didn't have any one to mind the store for me. I should charge them for the two hours of business I lost."
He turned his attention back to Dion. "So you're the young man all those elementals are scared about, huh? I can't see why. You look harmless enough to me. I talked with Alexandria and she told me you are cleared to use your full abilities on the earth elements. She also told me the ghouls tried to keep you away from her pharmacy. Something is up from the top level, I can feel it. There are some powerful forces at work here."
"They don't want me to obtain all four of the elemental powers because then I can gain the fifth. I need them all because my parents are held inside the clock tower, where the offices are located for the mall."
"Do you feel you can handle the responsibilities which come with being a Master of the Air Element? I understand you have the power over the earth elementals, but the ones in the air are not so easy to control."
"Yes, I am certain. I have not come this far and learned so much to back down now."
"Very well. Come into the back room and we will see what can be done." Hitch turned to Lilly and looked at her with concern. "This is only between Dion and myself, I hope you understand."
"I do," she told him. "The Grandmaster of the Earth Element said the same thing."
"It shouldn't be too long. It's just a matter of knowing he's ready."
Lilly leaned on one of the counters and watched him go in the back room with Dion and shut the door. She'd learned the process, test, or whatever the Elemental Grandmaster administered made no light or noise. It didn't happen at all like one saw in the movies.
She wandered around the hobby store while they were in the back room and looked at the merchandise. There was an entire wall dedicated to model cars and airplanes. She remembered when building model cars were all the rage in her neighborhood with the boys. Then it was model ships and planes. Somewhere in the meantime the kids began to build the plastic movie monsters too. Later on, many of the plastic models would be smashed when they fell off the table or end up in the trash by an over-zealous parent who needed to clean.
She noticed the paints were displayed by code and tied into whatever model needed to be painted. It seemed like a lot of money to pay for a small bottle, but she never did understand why so many places charged so much for so little. She found the lengths of balsa wood, which was used to build model airplanes. Some of the planes were wire guided, but the better ones were radio controlled. It seemed the way of the future, especially after she saw the stunts performed by the miniature helicopter. It was almost magic watching it do those maneuvers out in the concourse.
The door opened and Dion emerged with Jupiter Hitch. Dion had a smile on his face, the first one she'd seen all day.
"Congratulate the new Master of the Air Element," Hitch said to her. "He passed with flying colors. Now you can make those sylphs do whatever you need. Just heed the warning I gave you."
"Is there anything else I need to know about the air elementals?" Dion asked the older man. "They seem to be very independent minded. I didn't get such resistance against the earth ones."
"They're all over the place and congregate whenever there is a storm. They'll do what you tell them in the future, but don't push them too hard or they'll find a reason to mess up whatever you attempt to accomplish. Always follow through on anything you might promise because they have long memories. I have met air sylphs who still hold a grudge against Paracelsus for revealing too much about them. And don't be tempted to use your abilities the moment you leave here. I'm sure the mall owner has all kinds of opposition to throw at you, but resist the temptation to escalate."
"Thank you," Dion said to Hitch as he turned to leave. "I will do all I can to be worthy of your trust."
"I'm sure you will," Hitch called to him as they left the hobby store. Dion turned and saw the "open" sign flipped back as the door was left unlocked when they left. In spite of his high reputation among the element manipulators, Jupiter Hitch still had a business to run and couldn't afford to miss a sale. Dion wondered when Hitch would try to get the miniature helicopter down from the platform on top of the elevator shaft.
The mall had returned to normal. Shoppers were going about their business and no one talked about the miniature helicopter which buzzed the security guards. Given the short attention span of most people he encountered, Dion wasn't surprised by this revelation.
He was accustomed to people who didn't care much beyond the end of their street corner. He'd grown up in a different world where his parents had scolded him if he even tried to use his elemental worker abilities on a pool of water or on the stove burner. They made it very clear to him it was not for uninitiated eyes.
He could sense the air elementals floating around the top of the mall. They knew he'd achieved full power. The only ones who'd actively opposed his attempts to gain full power over them were gone; the helicopter drove them outside the mall and into the atmosphere to regroup. These sylphs were not the sort who would give him any problems. Other than some help in wind gusts and weather control, the air elementals weren't the sort to be of much use.
He looked up and saw several spinning in the upper rafters. This part of the mall was dedicated to them and they enjoyed being inside this place.
"You have half of your powers," Lilly said to him, "are you going for the remainder?"
"Of course," Dion said quickly. "It's not a question of want. I need all four to work the fifth. I don't know how my uncle managed to obtain the fifth without the others, but something tells me this is why he's gone out of his mind. The power he obtained isn't supposed to be gained on its own. The other four abilities support it. He's a table without legs floating in an ocean of chaos. Somehow, he thinks possessing my mother will make him free of his inner torment. It won't happen. The only person who can free him is himself and he may be too far gone to save his own soul."
"So are you going back home?" she asked. "To your aunt and uncle's house?"
"No. I need to find out more about my uncle and his background. I can't do that here, so I'll have to find a travel agency which can take me where I want to go."
"You mean like that place we were in yesterday?"
"No, I need to find a travel agency which can take me to a place of my own choosing. I need to find one that can take me outside this time circle. However," he said while unrolling the map, "I have a way to find one."
He traced his finger on the map and Lilly noticed a red dot appear in the map. She looked at it and saw the dot was located in a section of the mall right outside Jupiter Hitch's hobby shop. The dot indicated where the bearer of the map was at any given time.
"It appears there is a travel agency which can take me where I want to go just down the concourse in a back hall under the stairway. It's here on the map."
Lilly looked at where he pointed and the map showed a location called Purple Zone Travel. It was shaded in such a way to indicate that it wasn't open to normal mall patrons. Since they'd wondered into the last place which took them outside the mall by accident, Lilly could only speculate what this one was like on the inside.
"So who is this travel agency meant for?" she asked him.
"Travelers. But not always human ones. The place we were at yesterday was specifically for human travelers. The place we are going is for any creature that needs to travel from one point in the multiverse to the next. They have stations everywhere and can generally get you where you need to go."
Dion took both of her hands in his after he rolled the map up and placed it under his arm. "I want you to understand you can wait for me outside or just leave. You've been through a lot already and it will only get worse. I can take Emily and Sean home this evening on my own; all I have to do is phone my uncle. I can give you the keys to my van and you'll be able to leave this place."
"I don't want to go," she said as she let go of his hands and wrapped her arms around him. "I've gone this far, I'll see it through."
"I'm glad to hear that," Dion said as he leaned over Lilly and lightly kissed her on the lips. "We need to get moving if we're going to reach this place. Let me check one more thing."
Dion rolled the mall map open again and checked the path it showed him to the travel agency. "Good, it recommends a direct route. I guess this means Karanzen knows his men were unable to stop me again. I'm sure we'll deal with him later, but not right now."
They continued down the concourse, waving at a few friends from the high school. As this was spring break, there were quite a few kids from the school out today. All the stores were decorated with their special savings signs and the full weight of consumer culture was on display. Every other person was weighed down with a shopping bag or carried some box. All the major department stores in the area were represented by whatever they had in their hands. It was a grand parade today of endless packaging. Dion and Lilly didn't stop to reflect on the contradiction between the mall culture and what it was built over, but continued on their way. The travel agency would be hard enough to find without the mobs of people blocking the entrances to the stores.
Purple Zone Travel didn't even have a sign outside to tell the potential customer what it was. There was a blank storefront window where the travel agency was supposed to be located. Dion walked up to the storefront and looked at it. Most people would have assumed it was closed or not yet opened. The mall tended to put facades over closed stores or ones, which hadn't been opened. It looked bad on them when there was a blank space, so they did everything they could to hide it.
Dion looked at the glass door, which lead to the inside, and saw a small notice on the door right above the handle. He bent down and read it.
"PZ Travel," the small sign, no bigger than six inches read. "We are open by appointment only. Please call this number to arrange an appointment."
There was a phone number listed after the notice, which would probably go directly to an answering machine so the owners of the travel agency could screen the callers.
Dion placed one hand on the door handle and tried it. It was loose, but he felt a tingle in his hand as if the door had examined him. The door was tuned to let only those inside who needed the services of the company and to keep out the idle visitor. Dion turned and looked back at Lilly.
"It's open, we can go inside," he called to her.
They pushed the door open and went in. As they heard the automatic door closer swoosh behind them, they examined the room they'd just entered.
It was painted black. Everywhere. Even the ceiling was black and Dion wondered how they'd managed to paint it without spilling the paint everywhere. The floor was a shiny black color and reflected their images as they looked at it. Lilly thought about how difficult it must be to keep the floor clean and free of scratches.
Artifacts and paintings lined the walls. For a minute Dion thought, he'd made a mistake and walked into an art gallery, although it would be odd to see one in a shopping mall. There was faint light, which was provided by a series of candles, which were strategically placed over the inside of the room. It created a sense of unreality. It was hard to believe they were still in the mall.
Before them, a man sat behind a huge desk. This was an antique desk which was carved from wood and made by carpenters who distained the use of nails. Lilly knew a few things about furniture and estimated the desk to be over a hundred years old. It would not have looked out of place in an antique auction where people in eveningwear bided with sums higher than most made in an entire year.
The desk was neat and orderly with stacks of paper over it. Behind it, in a wooden chair, sat a bearded man. He wore glasses and was very thin, not more than a hundred and twenty pounds. His grey hair was long and cascaded down his back; although it was obvious, he was bald on top. He was in the process of stamping out a clove cigarette in an ashtray made of a single piece of polished stone when they opened the door.
"I know," he said as the cigarette smoke vanished into the air, "no smoking in the mall. Please tell me you're not with the building inspector. I don't think the door would've opened if you were, but put my mind to ease."
"No, we're not," Dion said. "We're here to plan a trip."
"Glad to hear. Please come over here and sit down." The man pointed to a seat by the desk where two chairs were positioned. "I need to fill out some forms. You are over eighteen, right?"
They both nodded.
"Good, that way I don't need parental permission forms." He detached a sheet of paper from the clipboard he held and placed in a drawer.
Lilly and Dion seated themselves by the desk and waited to see what would happen next.
"You're in luck today. It's been slow in here so I have the time to fill out the forms for you. I just need some basic information."
He proceeded to ask them their names, addresses, birth dates and other contact information, which he wrote down with a silver pen. His eyes glanced over his glasses when Dion told him about his current living arrangement, but the man asked no further questions beyond occupation, which both told him was "student".
"Anything to declare?" he asked them again. "I don't think you do since neither of you have any luggage, but I have to ask anyway."
The shook their heads.
"Okay, on to the reason for you coming inside. Where do you need to go?"
"My uncle is the man behind the mall," Dion told him. "I need to learn his background. He told me a little bit about it last night, but I know very little of my family's history. I need you to send us back to the beginning so I can view it all and know what I'm up against. I need it done in observation only."
The man behind the desk let out a whistle and leaned back.
"Tall order, kid. You want me to give you information you can use against my landlord? Now I have no love for Mr. Seth either, but I don't need to get into hot water with the old coot. If he finds out, and I know he will, that I helped you, I could lose my lease. Then I'd have to get another one. Do you have any idea what it takes to run this franchise? You have no idea what standards I have to meet. I might end up moving my office halfway across the planet to keep my franchiser happy."
"In other words," Dion said, "this is going to cost me a lot."
"Precisely. I hope you have enough money to cover it all." The man took out a slip of paper and wrote a sum on it, and then he handed it to Dion.
Dion looked at the paper and nodded. "You are right, it's not cheap. But I can afford it." He took the paper from the man and wrote down an address. "Bill my aunt and uncle; you know they are good for it."
The older man looked at the address on the page and then to Dion. "I won't do this for anyone else, keep it in mind."
"Your help will be rewarded, don't worry. Now what else do you need from me?"
"Fill out the destinations you need on the form and how long you want to be there and I will see you are on your way."
Dion spent thirty minutes filling out the form and adding the destinations he needed on the back. When he was done, he handed it to the man across from him. The travel agent looked at the locations and placed the form into a folder, which was then put in a file cabinet behind him.
"So, how do we travel?" Lilly asked them. "Is there some door we need to pass through to get there?"
"You're thinking of the other place," the man told her. "We do it differently at PZ Travel."
Lilly blinked and the room disappeared.

Chapter 13

The background changed instantly to the desert setting she had visited before. This time she still wore the same clothes, but the chair remained as well. Both Dion and she were still seated in with the man at the desk in front of them. They were in a desert and the sun blazed overhead, but the working part of the office had gone with them.
"You know," the man behind the desk started to say, "We were never introduced. I see your names on the form, but you don't know mine. It's Lou." He extended a hand over the desk, which both Dion and Lilly shook. He sat back down in his chair. "Is this the setting you wanted?" he asked Dion.
Dion glanced around and his eyes focused on a series of rocks piled up near them. "Yes, you took me this time to the very place I wanted. And we will have the time I listed on the form?"
"No problem," Lou the travel agent told them. "Everything is squared away on my end. Now if you will do me the honor, please rise."
Dion and Lilly followed his instructions and stood up.
"Thank you," Lou said. "Enjoy your trip."
The chairs, desk and travel agent vanished. They were alone in the desert.
The heat was worse were they stood. Lilly couldn't understand why it felt so much hotter in this part of the desert as opposed to the one she had been in several times before with Dion. She felt the heat drift across the sands and turned to look at the source of the intense heat, which raked across her face. It bubbled not three hundred yards from her.
It was a volcano crater. Lava glowed red and flowed out of the opening while poisonous fumes blew from it too. She stood there in wonder as it breathed fire across the plains of the desert. Wasn't she supposed to be in ancient Egypt or somewhere like it? Lilly couldn't recall there being active volcanoes in the Egypt of history. Something to do with the continental plates where Africa met with the rest of the landmasses.
Dion starred at them too. There were three of the craters and the fissures on the side glowed as lava poured out of them.
"Aren't we too close?" she asked him. "I thought you needed fire suits to be this close to an active volcano."
"You should see them at night. It's when they really look beautiful. Don't worry about the heat. We're beyond these things."
"Beyond getting burned alive?" Lilly snapped at him. What was he talking about?
"We aren't really here," he explained. "We're sitting in that office in the mall until our trip ends. Our elements have moved outside the time circles where we are sitting. Think of it as an elaborate movie you can watch inside at the theater. We're here while at the same time we're not. Does that make sense to you?"
"Not in the least bit."
"Don't worry, just follow me and do what I do. You won't be able to interact with what you are about to see, although you will feel some of the effects of it. Just bear with me for the next hour or two."
Lilly shrugged and turned to look at the rest of the desert.
It was beautiful in its essence. The sun had baked dry everything as far as they could see. Any flash rainstorm would be dried by the intense heat, which followed them. It was the primordial part of life. Where the first civilization began before recorded history. In the distance, humanity had risen and made itself master of everything it saw. But the sun ruled all in the horizon.
"Quiet!" Dion said to her as Lilly started to ask a question. "Look over there."
Lilly became silent and turned her gaze to one of the massive broken rocks before them. She could see a lone figure reclining on the rock. From the distance, it was hard to see what the person was up to and she returned her eyes to Dion with a look of confusion.
"Let's move closer," he said. "She can't hear or see us unless we make a real loud noise. Even then, she'll probably think it was a jackal or hyena, so I wouldn't worry too much."
They walked across the sand and through the field of stone toward the figure who continued to recline on the rocks. As they came closer, they saw she was sleeping. The shadow of the sun hadn't reached the cleft where she slept in the heat of the day. The moment Dion stopped, the first rays of sun drifted over her face and she opened her eyes.
The women wore a long Egyptian style wrap-around dress with bracelets on her wrist. She was dark in complexion and appeared to come from the Ethiopian or Sudanese part of Africa. As they watched, she sat up and starred at the rising sun. Lilly noticed the crown on her head resembled two horns with a large disk between them. Although her crown appeared heavy, it gave her no problem as she sat up and stood on the rock. She held something in one hand and Lilly noticed it was an ankh, the Egyptian symbol of life. She swerved and held the ankh up to the rising sun three times before placing it in the belt around her waist. She jumped off the rock and headed away, as if she had an important meeting scheduled.
"That was my grandmother," Dion whispered.
The woman walked along the desert sand and they followed her. After a few minutes, Lilly noticed she had a staff in one hand, which she used to work her way through the sand, which soon turned to hard rock. Lilly held Dion's hand as they followed her.
"And she can't hear or see us?"
"Not as long as we remain quiet."
The woman turned the corner around a large hill and starred out to the plains before her. It was in that moment Lilly noticed a man standing in the distance. He was dressed in the robes of a court official from the fifth dynasty and wore the single crown of the king of Lower Egypt. Both hands were crossed over his chest. In one hand he held a flail and in the other a crook. She was once told that the scepters the pharaohs carried were to represent the different forms of agriculture.
"My grandfather," Dion told her.
The man and women were facing each other. She saluted him with her staff and they walked off in the direction of the rising sun.
To Lilly, it seemed their bodies faded into the rays of the solar orb as it flooded the landscape with heat. "What did I just see?" she asked. "Are you trying to tell me your real grandparents are Egyptian gods?"
"Oh no," he laughed. "It was their wedding. I wanted to see it again. The first elemental workers were from Egypt and they were preparing for their wedding feast. I'd look again at the actual ceremony, but I don't think it has any bearing on what I'm up against."
The Egyptian sky faded and turned black. Lilly found herself in a wooded scene at night. The air was much cooler this time and she felt relieved to be out of the hot sun. They faced some kind of stone niched carved or formed naturally in a rock facing and looked inside it. The moon was full in the sky and the light of it illuminated the inside of the niche.
Lilly looked inside to see if anything was contained in the niche. It was the form of a woman. She was very pale, so pale Lilly didn't think she was alive. The woman wore a black robe and had her arms folded across her.
Just as Lilly was about to ask Dion who she was, the woman opened her eyes and stared up at the ceiling in the small niche. She rose up slightly, tossed her legs over the stone where she lay and stood up. She faced the moon in the sky and smiled.
They followed her until she met up with a man and woman who were dressed in the fashion of medieval peasants. She left with them and walked in the direction of the moon, although the three of them were silent every bit of the way.
"Now who was that?" Lilly asked Dion as they walked back in the direction they came.
"Her name is Lilith. Your namesake. I think that was your parents with her. But I can't be sure."
Lilly watched them as the faded into the trees. Her mother and father were quiet about family too and she never visited more than a few cousins or aunts. And those were only from her mother's side of the family. Her dad never talked about his and she's never met anyone from it.
Once upon a time, she asked her parents why she was named Lilly. Was it for a flower? She was told it was in the honor of a close friend of the family who was no longer around. It seemed a good answer and she never pushed them for an explanation.
They stopped to watch a procession pass by them. It was impossible to tell who was in the procession since none of their faces was exposed under the hooded capes all of them wore. Lilly and Dion watched in peace as they went past them. Each member of the procession carried a lit torch. Lilly counted five members in it until the robed torchbearers continued on their way up the path. The last thing she saw of them was the light of the torches, which illuminated the forest.
"Who was that?" she asked Dion.
"I really haven't a clue. It happens that these trips show me things which have only a little to do with what I'm trying to find out. Perhaps further along I'll understand the meaning, but today, I just don't know who they are or what they're doing here. Let's move along."
They emerged from a clearing at a party of some sorts. It had to have taken place years ago since the styles of clothes and music was well into the past. By Dion's understanding, these were all people from at least twenty years ago, perhaps more. This was far before he was born. There were all kinds of cars popular to the time period parked on the lawn of some massive country estate. People were leaving their cars and making a path to the action, which took place outside. Once again, they ignored Dion and Lilly who were but spirits in the night, casting brief shadows.
"You have any idea what is taking place here?" Lilly asked him.
"I think it was the night my uncle tried to kill my father. It's the approximate date I put on the paper I handed Lou. I'm basing it on the period. It's a wild guess, so who knows where we will end up."
They followed the crowd in the rear to the party. It took place in the rear of the estate and was catered by servants in uniforms. If this was his family sponsored the party, Dion was heir to a lot of money. Unless it was all gone.
They stopped and admired the decorations and care put into all the food. No one was asked for an invitation, the party appeared to be open to everyone in the neighborhood.
"Do you see your parents?" Lilly asked. "You might not recognize them if they're a lot younger."
"I don't see them anywhere. Let's check inside the house."
A servant was stationed at the base of the staircase and served drinks. He also kept people from going upstairs, Lilly noticed. She pointed him out to Dion who agreed with her that it was the best source to check out that evening. Since he didn't notice them, they had no trouble slipping past the servant and walking up the stairs.
At the top of the stairs, they heard a loud set of noise emerging from a room down the hall. It was easy to find the source: a room with a closed door. Inside the room, they could hear people shouting at each other.
"You think it's wise to go in there?" Lilly asked Dion. "Won't they notice the door opening?"
"They will, but they'll not say anything if we hurry inside. They'll assume the wind blew it open or something. Trust me, I've done this before." He put his hand on the doorknob and pushed the wooden door open.
There were five people in the room: two women and three men. They turned at the sound of the door opening and starred at Dion and Lilly. As she expected, they couldn't see them, but the two slid to one side of the room, as the oldest man walked to the door, and shut it.
Now they could observe the proceedings in silence.
"I thought that door was locked," the man said as he slid the latch in place. "Did either of you boys manipulate anything into opening the door?" The man looked around the hall to see if anyone or anything was there.
"Not me, dad," one of the men said who was sitting in a chair across from the women.
"Me neither," the other man said.
The entire group was seated in stuffed leather chairs when the door opened. The room was some kind of study with large bookshelves and floral prints adorning the walls. Brandy sniffers were placed on the tables next to the chairs. All the room needed was a servant in white gloves pouring drinks, but they were all busy with the party in progress.
"Tried to kill your brother, did you?" the older man said to the younger one on the right. "I should have you locked up, but the scandal would destroy everything I've built. Not to mention the attention it would bring to all of us by the English. I suppose you'd like that, to see everyone locked away in cages while some scientist tries to figure out how we manipulate the elements."
It was that moment Lilly realized who they were looking at this very moment. The older man was Dion's grandfather and his grandmother stood with him. She remembered them from the standoff he did with Officer Karanzen the other day. Across from him sat Dion's parents and his uncle. What they witnessed was the events, which took place immediately after Dion's mother had caught his uncle in his murder attempt. This was years before Dion was born.
"It's a lie!" his uncle cried out. "Why would I do such a thing?"
"Because you are jealous of your brother, that's why!" his grandmother thundered back. "You were rivals for years and he's with June. You can't stand it and tried to kill him."
"We raised you better than this, Seth," Dion's grandfather told him. "I have every reason to have you cut off from the rest of the family, but it's not our way of settling matters. I'm still shocked at your actions."
"Look, dad," Dion's father spoke up. "I don't want much more than the woman I love." Dion's mother and father held hands so tight their knuckles were white. "I'm willing to leave if it helps things. There is no reason for me to be around if it's going to cause trouble."
"You've caused enough trouble already, Marsh," Dion's grandfather said to him. "Not only did you marry a woman without my permission, but you married someone who is also an elemental worker. Do you have any idea what that means? Your children will either have no abilities or more power than you can ever dream of. Good lord, Marsh, you have two elemental powers, if she has ones you don't, your son could become a fifth element worker."
"I could become one too," Seth snapped back.
"I've told you what I thought about that charlatan," Dion's grandfather said. "Think you're going to become a grandmaster by working with him? There are no shortcuts to the fifth element. Either you are born with the ability to acquire it, or you spend a lifetime trying to acquire it. It can't be obtained overnight."
"I'll go," Dion's father said, "I have enough money to start my own company and it will provide a means for us to live. June's pregnant and I need to provide for the both of us."
"If you must," his grandfather told him. He turned to his other son. "But don't think you'll get off so easy, Seth. I will keep you on a tight leash. I know what you're capable of doing and I'll never turn my back on you. It disgusts me because I was willing to divide my entire business with the both of you. Now I don't know what will happen."
"I think we've seen enough," Dion said to Lilly. "I would've wanted to visit some other places, but I feel we need to move on." He looked up into the air. "Okay, Lou, send us back."
Lilly blinked again and found herself in the room they'd left before the trip to Egypt. She and Dion were still seated in front of the older man with glasses. The same candles were burning and he was extinguishing another cloves cigarette.
"These things are addictive," he told them. "Did you find out what you wanted to know? You paid for more time than you used. I can give you credit for any future time you need to spend if you return."
Lou handed Dion another form to sign. "This one is for the attorney general. It says I did not force you to pay for any service you didn't need and you came in here on your own free will."
Dion looked at it and signed. "They sure make you go through a lot of paper."
"Red tape," Lou grumbled. "It's getting so bad I spend most of my working day on forms. Maybe they'll figure out a way to computerize it someday, but I doubt it will improve anything."
"Have you been busy lately?" Dion asked.
"Not enough traffic coming through here. My best customers are people like you who want to experience and observe incidents outside the time circles, but I do get a lot of customers who physically travel. Not enough that would justify my little operation, but enough to help pay the bills. For instance, that door behind the curtain," he said and pointed to a section of the wall, "takes you just about anywhere you might want to go, but it's a one-way trip. You can't back up, unlike my competition over in the other side of the mall. I have all interesting sorts who come through. Sometimes they pass through the door to the mall; sometimes they take another door to some place else. Depends on what form they have."
Dion thanked Lou for his help and left the office, the door latching on its own behind them.
"So what did you find out?" Lilly asked him. She scanned the hall for any sign of Karanzen's men, but didn't see them anywhere.
"It left me with more questions than answers," he sighed. "I did see why my parents left their town and went to California. Now I know why we had so little contact with the rest of the family. Father was worried about my uncle finding us. Looks like he had reason to fear."
"You never knew very much about your uncle?"
"No, they wouldn't speak much about him. I knew about his other brother, who wasn't in the room we saw. And Uncle Rich never talks about the family. I understand why, with Seth doing everything he can to gain more power. I was always told you couldn't acquire the fifth elemental power unless you had the other four. Even those of us who are born to ability need a lifetime to train for the ones we don't have, so it's beyond the scope of most people."
"I'm still unsure about the meaning of the people carrying the torches," he said to her. "It could be anything, but I'll have to think about it. I don't recall asking to be dropped any place which would involve them. They were right behind your namesake, but other than that, I can't imagine what role they would play."
"You need to tell me more about this Lilith person," Lilly said.
"I will when we have the opportunity."
"Well, if it isn't our young conjure man," a voice said behind them.
Dion and Lilly turned to face Detective Jones, the police officer who they'd seen the day before. He was standing there with a pack of playing cards.

Chapter 14

"Good day, detective," Dion said. "I see you have a pack of cards ready. Is there something you wish to show me?"
"No, I don't think I have anything which could match your feat yesterday. I was hoping perhaps you could show me a little something?"
"My list of card tricks is very small. The one you saw yesterday was one of the few I know. What I know tends to be physical rather than the mental tricks you perform. I can't master the mental ones, too hard for me to remember all that information."
"So what brings you back to the mall?" Lilly asked the detective. "Buying something else for your wife?'











"I wish. Today I'm actually working for a change. I'm here on a fact-finding mission and I think I've just located one very interesting fact." He looked Dion directly in the face.
"Does this concern me somehow?" Dion asked.
"In a way. I found out this morning your uncle owns the mall. Now isn't that funny? You transfer here from out of town because your parents disappear and move in with your aunt and uncle. No coincidence at all that your other uncle has fronted this entire building project."
"Have I broken any laws, detective?"
"Not that I know about. It's not you I'm interested in today. Your Uncle Seth, on the other hand, interests me very much. Him and his entire business empire. I see he's done quite well for himself over the years. A lot better than most men could have done in similar situations. He took your grandfather's company public five years ago and now he drops money all over the place."
"I never even knew I had another uncle until recently."
Lilly prayed he didn't reveal how he knew about his uncle. Say the wrong thing and they'd both be carted off to an insane asylum.
"My father didn't talk much about his family. I knew some cousins and my Uncle Rich, but just recently learned about the man that you are interested in today. I think you might know more about him than I do."
"Are you kidding me?" Jones snapped. "All the money this guy has and his own brother don't even acknowledge him?"
"All I know is that my father and he had a falling out and they never spoke again. By the way, detective, how do you know so much about my family?"
"You can find out a lot when you know other police departments. You can find out more if you have friends down at the FBI headquarters in Washington. You can find out a whole lot if there is an active investigation ongoing, which concerns someone who's made an appearance in your little burg. A whole lot of people are interested in your uncle and how he accumulated so much money in a short amount of time. There are many questions being asked right now and my FBI friends want me to find out some things for them which won't involve a search warrant."
"So this is where Dion fits into the picture?" Lilly asked. "Why would he know anything?"
"I don't know. I would like to find out how much he knows. Anything I can learn from him will be helpful. And it will save me the trouble of digging it out of public records. You can find a lot in public records, but it takes a long time to sort through them looking for what you want. It's a real pain if you have to do it on your own time and don't receive any overtime for the job. But sometimes it pays off if you find a rat and get to take him down. I may not be a cat, but I know a rodent nest when I see one."
"Maybe we need to sit down and talk," Dion said to the officer. "I see a table by that store with three chairs. If you spring for ice cream, we can have a conversation."
"I can spare that much out of my pocket," Jones said and they all headed to the table.
After Jones had ordered three sundaes, Dion began to talk. He told the detective about his parents' kidnapping and how he was forced to move in with his aunt and uncle on the other side of the country. He talked about what he knew in regards to his Uncle Seth, which wasn't much. He mentioned how his father and uncle had been rivals for his mother's heart. He told the detective after they were married; his father started a business and had as little to do with his family as possible. All of which was true, but Dion neglected to tell him about element manipulation or how he'd used a mystical travel agency to jump around time to gain this information. He neglected to tell him about the meeting with his uncle outside the time circles.
"I know most of what you just told me," Jones grumbled. "I didn't know the exact connections, but you confirmed most of them to me. Now I suppose you want to know what I have."
Dion nodded.
"Your uncle took over his father's adhesives company before the old man passed on. The first thing he did when he had control of the company was to go around and invest in similar companies. Once he gained some control in them, he'd use his influence to have his company buy up all their stock and merge. How he managed to do this with all the anti-trust laws on the books still fascinates me. I think he either paid some people off or worked it in such a way that all the buy-outs happened under the radar.
It didn't matter, because soon enough he had enough cash to start buying up more companies and make investments. He went into real estate in a big way and over-extended himself plenty of times. Somehow, he's managed to keep his funds moving around to different shell companies in different states. I think it will all catch up with him and we think he's crossed a line of sorts."
"What do you mean?" Lilly asked him.
"He's cooked up some deal which involved diamonds stolen out of a vault in Chicago. I don't know the particulars, but there was a huge heist from a secure vault last year where many expensive rocks were lifted. We keep hearing his name mentioned in connection with the robbery. I don't think he had anything directly to do with it, but he might have financed the operation."
"Wouldn't that be under someone else's territory?" Dion asked. "I mean, why would the local police be involved in a crime on that scale? I thought the FBI was involved if it crossed state lines."
Jones leaned back in his chair and gave a look of admiration at two college-aged girls who walked past him. He turned back to Dion and Lilly. "You are a smart kid. How is it that you know so much about criminal activity and law enforcement at your age? Thinking on becoming a cop someday?"
"It has crossed my mind once or twice."
"Keep this in mind," Jones told him. "The bad guys shoot back and they have better guns. But to return to what you asked, yes it would normally be a case for the FBI. As I said, they are looking into it at the top level, but sometimes they tap people like me where a local eye is needed. I had some people I know in Washington who needed a favor or two call me. We had a long talk and they told me the mall was attracting all kinds of attention because they suspected he was using it to get rid of money he's not supposed to have. Happens all the time. You would be surprised how many dud records and lousy movies are the result of people dropping cash because they don't want their accountant to ask questions."
All three were silent at the table for a good minute. Each of them had more to tell, but were afraid of revealing too much information before they got what they wanted.
Dion couldn't tell Detective Jones about the travels outside the time circles to Ancient Egypt and he suspected Jones knew a lot more about his uncle's activities than he wanted to say. The only person who had little in the way of knowledge to contribute was Lilly. She had seen too much to just get up and walk away.
"So what do you want from me?" Dion asked him. "I barely know my uncle and we've only spoken one time." Dion neglected to mention the one time was a few hours ago.
"Let me know if you find out anything that I can use," Jones said. "I'll watch out for you. I know you are still trying to find your parents and I might be able to find out some information you can't. As I said, I know people in Washington. Kidnapping is a federal crime and it falls under the FBI's jurisdiction, so they will have an open file on it. I'll see what I can find out if you see what you can find out."
"I'll do what I can," he told Jones. "You do the same."
"Deal." Jones turned to Lilly. "No need to tell your parents I said hello again. They'll wonder why you've ran into me two days in a row down at the mall."
He got up and walked away.
They saw him leave through the nearest exit doors.
"Does he change anything?" Lilly asked.
"Not in the least bit. All it means is that there is one more person to keep in mind. I don't know if he'll be of any use to me at all. Your detective friend doesn't seem to realize my parents are imprisoned here." Dion starred at the table in thought for a few seconds. "We need to go fetch Emily and Sean. They should be waking up soon."
It was a short walk to the furniture store and the manager was on duty. As Dion and Lilly walked into the store, he signaled to them and they followed him to the back room. The store didn't have very many patrons in that day and they passed into the section marked "Employees Only" without much notice.
"Been sleeping sound all day," the manager told them while he opened the door. "I've checked in on them from time to time and they're fine."
Both were still asleep when they looked in. The manager didn't turn on the light to the second back room where the display waterbed was kept. Emily was curled up to Sean and sleeping in peace. Sean had his arm around her and was in the land of Hypnos too.
"Both of you need to wake," Dion said to them as he stood by Sean. "Time to go home."
Sean opened his eyes a bit at a time and looked up. He seemed oblivious to where he was and rose up with a backstretch. Emily did the same and turned to look at Sean with confusion. She kicked her feet over the side of the bed, put her shoes on and checked to make sure her clothes were still in place.
"What am I doing here?" both of them said at the same time.
"Do you recall anything that had to do with the cheerleaders?" Dion asked them.
"The last thing I remember was facing down with them in the mall," Sean told him. "I thought they had some nerve to try and corner us out there."
"What about you?" Dion said to Emily who appeared to be a little bit groggy.
"It's the last thing I remember too. We were standing there and they appeared, acting like they owned the place. What happened?"
"Elemental power," he said. "They had a lot of it and tried to use what they had to get to me through both of you. Don't worry, I've been granted mastery over the air element, so they will be of no further trouble."
Dion turned again to Sean. "We need to talk later."
Sean nodded in return.
"I hate to kick you out," said the manager, "but I do need this room for customers. I've had to tell several people today where're fixing a leak to get them to come back."
"We'll be out of here soon enough," Dion said.
They walked Sean and Emily out into the parking lot with care. At one point Dion thought, he might have to hold onto Sean, as he still seemed to be in a daze. Emily was fully awake by now and kept her eyes ahead as if she tried to remember something. It was better she didn't.
Once outside the mall and onto the walkway, which snaked down the parking lot, Dion sat everyone down and rested. The outside temperature had dropped, which worried him a bit as this was never a good sign in the spring. Dion looked up in the sky to see if there were any traces of the air elemental sylphs the miniature helicopter scared from the mall, but he couldn't see them.
"When did you cut a deal with the elemental?" Dion demanded to know from Sean. "And don't lie to me; I know she promised you a lot if you stole the map from me."
Sean looked to the ground. Lilly thought he was about to cry.
Sean wanted to, but not in front of Emily. He's laid there awake with her curled up to him waiting for them to return in the back room of the furniture company. If only he could repeat that hour over and over for the rest of his life, he'd know true peace. When he woke up he had a brief memory of what happened and how the cheerleader elemental had used him to get the map. He knew retribution was on the way, but he could deal with anything if Emily loved him. Although she was asleep, he didn't care. Maybe someday she'd realize what he'd done and how it was all for her.
"You've got everything, Dion," he snapped. "Both of these girls are crazy about you. Half of the girls in the school swoon when you walk by. I can't even have one girlfriend. Do you know how many of them I've asked to the prom? Three, and I'm not going to ask another one. So, yes, I was pulled out by the hot cheerleader. I'm sorry that I don't have your good looks and ability to work miracles, but it seemed the only way I'd ever have a girl show interest in me."
Dion looked at him and tried his best not to feel pity. He'd just confessed to betrayal and for the most idiotic of reasons. Gifted? This ability was a gift? It was a gift to lose your parents and have to rescue them? He was talented because the very things he could do would have him branded a witch in the Middle Ages? All the poor fool had to do was learn how to dress right and be personable and he could live a normal life. Okay, his family might be a mess, but he wasn't the only one out there with issues. Dion wanted to give him a lecture, but he just couldn't bring himself to do it.
"I'll let it go this time," he told Sean. "No human alive can stand up to the combined power of twelve elementals of their class. We need to talk some more later."
Dion turned to Emily. "And you can stop using Sean to do your dirty work! He nearly died to impress you. I'm sorry your home life isn't the best, but you won't solve it by playing boys against each other."
"How dare you talk to me like that?" Emily roared back at him. "I've been snatched twice by these creatures just from hanging around with you. I'm still terrified what might come next. Just get me out of this place because I never...."
Her speech was cut short by the sound of a freight train. Except it wasn't a freight train, it was a tornado.
The large funnel had materialized in the vacant field next to the mall. Sean turned around to see it began to move in the direction of the mall. Of course, the temperature drop and the cloudy skies. The humidity. It was the very air sylphs banished by the toy helicopter. They were back now and headed to the mall with vengeance in mind. They were too dull to realize the mall was far more powerful than anything they could create. At most, the tornado would damage part of the mall, which his uncle could have fixed in a few weeks. But the people who stood in horror in the parking lot could be injured or killed.
Dion left his friends who were still in awe of the funnel and walked to the middle of the lot directly in its path.
The tornado began to leave the field and ripped through the grass and dirt as it came. The field was mostly dirt as it was stripped the previous year for the construction on the mall. A few trees still on the ground were tossed in the air and landed behind it in the barren grass.
Dion glared at the sylphs who were dancing in the middle of it and projected his will into the funnel. They stopped spinning around when they felt his presence and turned to face him. The funnel was slower now and not in motion. The sylphs were watching him and realized they were in front of someone who knew who they were. A command was issued to them from Dion and the tornado evaporated. The last Dion saw of the sylphs were vapor trails as the retreated to the upper atmosphere as fast as they could go.
The funnel was gone. Clouds rolled back in the sky and the sun began to shine through. The mall patrons in the lot, and inside, pressed to the windows, looked relived at the disappearance of the tornado. For years, people would claim a twister had come close to the mall, but vanished at the last minute. No one had a camera with them to take a picture and it soon became a legend told across the town.
Dion walked back to his friends. "We need to leave," he said and walked towards the car. "We have things to do."


- THE END -



Part 3 - WATER



Chapter 1


At eight in the morning, the day Dion appeared to seek the power of the third element, Officer Karanzen had an unexpected visitor in his office. He'd arrived at seven to check the roster from the night before. He prepared for a visit from Matt, the mall's representative who dropped by on a regular basis to see if there were any security issues they needed to know about. He expected the little toadie to arrive again unannounced today because that punk Dion had managed to get into the mall and obtain what he needed the day before.
The mall owners had played a new game yesterday and told him to stay out of the way. They wanted to handle the local kid who caused them so much grief. He really didn't care who gave them a hard time, it was all part of the job. Karanzen understood who the kid was and why he needed to be kept at bay, but the mall didn't make his job easy. Instead of banning Dion from the mall, they wanted him to be allowed to stroll in with his friends and try to reach whatever place he needed to find. Both times, he wasn't informed from where the kid had to be stopped until it was too late. They didn't' want Dion anywhere near the store managers who had the special powers he needed. They seemed to be threatened by this Dion character and Karanzen couldn't understand why.
If the mall was sitting over the abyss, why didn't they unleash one of the fiends which lurked inside it against Dion and his friends? There were all kinds of primordial beasts down there that would have him for breakfast if they were allowed to leave. If the mall owners were supposed to stand guard over the Gates of Hell, why couldn't they let one of these monstrosities out every now and then? There were ways to keep them under control. Even Karanzen knew how to manage his true form until needed. It shouldn't be much of an issue for the mall owners.
Karanzen had his uniform on and sat behind his desk, the plans of the mall spread out in front of him. If that kid made it back in here today, it left two sections he would try to reach. He betted on the Blue Sector, as he liked to call the part of the mall in front of him. He didn't know exactly whom Dion needed to reach, but he was almost certain who it might be based on the kid's activities the last time. Over the years, he'd developed a feel for these things...
"Come on in," he yelled at the door upon hearing the knock. It had to be one of his guys, who else would be here this early in the morning? Bert for sure; he didn't have any interests outside his job. He was always the first to clock in when he pulled the morning shift.
The door opened to reveal a man with silver hair and an expensive suit. He was about his age. Karanzen was good about sizing up a suspect. But this was somebody he needed to show some respect. He shot up in his chair and offered a hand, which the man took.
"Lieutenant Karanzen," he addressed the man. "I'm the security officer for the mall. Is there something I can help you with today?"
"Just the person I want to see. Seth Bach, I am the chief stockholder in the company which owns the mall."
Karanzen was right again. This was not someone to be taken lightly. He'd heard the name bantered about and it was someone to which you paid attention.
"Sit down, sir," Karanzen told him. "I suspect this has to do with the problems we've had with some of the local kids?"
Bach seated himself at the chair next to Karanzen's desk. He picked up a service award from it, looked the award over and returned it to the desk.
"It concerns one kid in particular. Dion Bach."
Karanzen's eyes flared. "You have the same last name?'
"That's right. It is because he's family. Dion is my nephew. He lives here in the area with my brother, his other uncle."
"Is there something I need to know about? I was told by Matt there was some concern from the office this kid was allowed into the mall. I told him I would need a reason before he could be banned from it. Are you here to give me that reason?"
"You have some idea why this mall was built," Bach said. "I know because I was the one that sent Matthew out to find you while the mall was under construction. There are two more people he needs to reach. One today, one tomorrow. If he should reach both of them, we can just forget about this mall and everything else in the world. He needs two more elemental powers to obtain the fifth one. Right now, I'm the only fifth element worker in the world. Another fifth element worker would be one too many."
"Isn't there a way you could prevent him from reaching the mall?"
"There are many ways I can keep him out of here, none of which I want to employ while I still have family. If it ever became known I'd caused Dion grief to prevent him from reaching the mall, the rest of my family would hunt me down. I don't have a desire to be a rabbit on the first day of hunting season, Officer Karanzen. Do I make myself clear?"
"Very clear, sir."
"I'm glad to hear that, officer. Now excuse me, I have a meeting with some investors."
He stood up and left the room.

***

Dion picked up Lilly early the next morning. She was waiting for him out front of her father's house in the driveway. She jumped in, slammed the door and kissed him on the lips before she sat down in her seat. It was still not ten in the morning, but some of the neighbors were already out working on their yards.
Dion noticed an older neighbor lady glared at him when Lilly climbed into the van. She taught world literature at the high school and didn't like him. He'd taken her class last year and found it to be weak in the selection. She lowered his grade because he had the audacity to ask her why an obscure Greek poet from the Middle Ages had more significance than Chaucer or Yukio Mishma.
"Everything alright with your parents?" Dion asked Lilly as he put the gear in drive.
"We had a long conversation," she said. "I hadn't thought about some things in a long time. Those cheerleader elementals brought them into my head. I'm not sure if it's all resolved or not, but we'll talk some more this evening."
The previous days' encounter with the cheerleader elementals, the physical representation of air sylphs, was intense, but not as bad as when they had to rescue Emily from the ghoul cleaners the day before. It didn't matter now that Dion had two of his four elemental powers. This would allow him to pursue the rare fifth elemental power when the time came.
He was concerned about the effects it might have on his other friends who went along on his quest. Sean seemed to be in better spirits when he dropped him off last night. Now that Sean had finally opened up to Emily, she had the option to accept what he felt for her or breaking it off. If nothing else, it would allow them the opportunity to move on in life. Officer Karanzen and his goon squad hadn't been around that much. It could change once word was passed up to the clock tower in the center, where the offices of the mall were located, that his security guards failed a second time to prevent Dion from obtaining one of his elemental powers. And they'd learned the man who created the mall was none other than Dion's own uncle, Seth Bach. As far as Dion knew, his parents were still imprisoned in the clock tower at the center of the mall.
"Do you want to talk about it?" Dion asked Lilly as they headed over to Emily's house to pick up her and Sean.
Both Sean and Emily insisted on returning to the mall with him and Lilly the next day. They wanted to see the quest through to the end. Dion needed two more powers from the elemental grandmasters before he had all four abilities and the strength to tackle the fifth, which no elemental worker had done in generations. His uncle claimed to possess the power of the fifth element, but had learned it by the dreaded left hand path method. His uncle had not mastered the other elements before it.
"They finally realize I'm not six years old," Lilly explained to Dion. "Mom told me last night the hardest thing she ever did was admit my sister was a woman and could make her own decisions. I think they want to protect me from the world, but I told them the way to do it is not by locking me away."
Dion didn't know how to respond. He'd always had a very open relationship with his parents and never got into trouble in school. He decided years ago it had to do with the way the different element workers were placed into the world at large. You had to be careful that no one saw you create a homunculus or light a campfire with a salamander. It tended to make a kid listen to what his parents had to tell him or her. He remembered watching a nasty water nymph elemental near a group of kids swimming in a lake. Dion was able to coax them all back onto the bank until the elemental left. He was relieved he didn't have to tell them the reason.
Sean and Emily were waiting for them as he drove up to her father's house. It took him a few minutes to locate the two as they were under a weeping willow tree on the front yard in the throes of passion. Dion was a little embarrassed to watch Emily as she ran her arms up the back of Sean, and Lilly tried to restrain a smile as they saw them.
"He'll end up with another bite mark on his neck," Lilly snickered.
"It will match the one he came home with last night," Dion sighed.
The two spent the drive home in the backseat last night all over each other. Dion was on the verge of letting them know about the audience in the front when he pulled up to Sean's house. It took Sean a good minute to untangle Emily from him before he could get out of the van. Emily swooned all the way back home.
Dion waited a few minutes and beeped the horn.
Emily looked over Sean's shoulder as he turned around with a look of embarrassment. Both of them tried to act normal as they walked up to the van. Sean had turned beet red by the time he was opening the van door.
"I hope we didn't interrupt anything," Lilly said to them as they climbed into the back. Dion was quiet; his attention was on the road and the quest that lay in front of them.
Dion parked the van near the third section of the mall. He starred out of the windshield and looked at the main entrance door, which marked the interior to the "water" side of the mall. He couldn't see Karanzen or his security guards, but he knew they were inside.
The previous evening, Dion had dropped Emily off at her father's house right after they took Sean home. Emily was quiet all the way back, until, a mile from their destination; Lilly spoke and broke the silence.
"What brought all that on?" she asked Emily. "You've been tolerating Sean for the past year and now you're acting like he's your long lost soul mate? What changed?"
"I saw a lot of what was inside him. He saw a lot of what was inside me. Something about those cheerleaders, being in close proximity to them merged us on the inside. I don't know how to explain it, but it brought us together. I woke up an hour after you left and realized where I was in that back room."
After their encounter with the elementals the previous day, Dion had let them sleep in a back room at a bedding company.
"Do you know," she continued, "Sean was sitting in a chair fast asleep because he didn't want me to think he would take advantage of me? He'd moved the chair to the front of the door. He wanted to be there in case anyone tried to come in before I was awake. I knew what happened outside the mall when you stood down those cheerleader elementals. He remembers too. Neither of us could do anything, but we were there when it happened and saw it all. It wasn't until we were awake that we were in full control of our own minds. In between, we blended somehow and saw a lot of the bad stuff in each other's heads. He knows about the way my I found my dad in the backyard alone when mom left. I know the hurt his own mother caused him all the years he was growing up. I can't be separated from him now. I don't know how to explain it, but we know too much about each other."
Dion knew the elementals could alter a person's inner mind if they were too close to them for any length of time. It was one of the reasons so few people could see elementals or even know they existed. It was dangerous to work with any particular elemental for long. Humans could build an attachment to them and would lose their sense of perspective. From there it was a short trip to insanity. This, however, was the first time he'd ever heard of more than one person being around elementals as powerful as those air sylph cheerleaders were.
That night, they'd let Emily off in front of her father's house. Dion and Lilly watched Emily bounce up to the front door. She unlocked it with her key and let herself in. The light inside stayed on as they pulled away.
"What do you think?" Lilly asked Dion. "Seems to me she's in love."
Emily had locked the door from the other side and turned to fix her face in the mirror. She adjusted her top and removed her shoes before turning off the living room lights. In the family room, she could hear the noise of the TV. It was late, but her father liked to stay up and watch the news and then whatever was on afterwards. These days most of the TV stations stayed on the air until the early hours of the morning. On the weekend, several of them never quit broadcasting as the late, late movie finished just in time for the daily farm report. Someday they might run nonstop.
"How was your trip to the mall?" her dad asked.  He was an average-sized man who worked in a technical field where most of his colleges were other men.
"It was fine," she told him. Emily turned to see her reflection in the window to the backyard just in time to see the bite mark on her neck.
"Sure you strictly went to the mall?" he asked her again. "You know, in my day the girls had enough sense to wear high collars."
Emily looked to the ground in embarrassment. What was she going to say? Her dad had caught her again. When her mother was still at home, she didn't have to worry. He was too busy staying up at night wondering if his wife would ever return home to give his daughter much concern.
"I know I haven't been the best father you could ask for, but, Emily, I worry about you. I know your mother isn't around to and never took much interest in you when she was at home, but I'm trying to make up for it."
"Daddy, I'm in love," she said.
Her father was speechless. What was he to say? He'd been there himself and vowed never to remarry after he divorced from Emily's mother. He didn't even date other women. His field consisted, for the most part, of men with poor social skills. He'd been alone with his daughter for the past two years, although the divorce wasn't finalized until a year ago. Her father had the look of a man beaten down by the universe. He'd married the wild bartender girl a year after college when she came weeping to him about her pregnancy. He paid for his mistake over the years.
Inside his mind, he was worried Emily spent too many nights out. She returned home with boys of which he didn't approve. What could he do now? Her grades were good and she would start college in the fall. He should have cracked down years ago, but now it was too late.
Love? Emily was in love? Kids still used that word after everything they saw? It was almost a relief to hear it from her.
"Anyone I know?" he asked her. It was time to find out. Just in case.
"A boy named Sean. You've met him. He's been over with Lilly a few times?"
"The tall kid who drives the van?"
"No, you have him confused with Dion. Sean is the chunky boy. I need to work with him. He has a good heart and his mother has messed him up."

Sean had walked slowly up to his parent's house after Dion dropped him off. He leaned against the car in the driveway before he walked up to the house. There were only two trees in the front yard and he considered going out into the back yard to calm down before he dealt with his mother. His dad was working the second shift this month because it paid better. Although Sean suspected there was another reason.
Both of his sisters were gone. One worked the evenings at a restaurant, the other was over at a friend's house. Sean noted they spent less time at home the older they got. He was told they were working and preparing for college, but Sean thought they just wanted an excuse to get away from their mother. The woman acted stranger the older she became and Sean wondered if there might be a medical reason. Of course, she would never admit it. The only person who was ever subjected to a medical examination was Sean when he became sullen three years ago.
He knew his mother would either be on the phone in conversation with one of her sisters or watching TV. He betted on the latter, which meant he would be subject to interrogation the moment he stepped through the door. She would stare at him until he told her what she wanted to know. He ran through a list of stories he'd prepared for her in order to get some peace.
There was no way he was going to tell her about Emily. She would immediately want to know everything about her. Over the next hour, she would demand to know where her family lived, what her parents' names were and the location of her church. If he didn't know these things, she would find a way to discover them.
Sean closed his eyes and thought about the back of Dion's van. He'd never been that close to a girl before. What was wrong with him that he felt guilty about being in love? He's seen the inside of Emily's mind when they were both trapped by those demon cheerleaders. She had just as much pain in her life as he did. Perhaps more. Her mom was out of the picture and was a continual source of embarrassment to Emily when she would visit. They had this to bond over mothers who were problematic. What was it about this part of Ohio that created such things? He knew too many kids with similar family problems.
Sean had never felt so close to anyone in his entire life. He was already trying to figure out a way to attend college on the same campus where Emily had applied. She wanted to attend school at Cincinnati that fall; he was supposed to go to a local college. He knew why his parents wanted him to stay close, they claimed it was to save money, but his mother didn't want to let him out of her sight.
Once upon a time, he'd tried to initiate a relationship with another girl in school and it turned into a disaster. Sean never told anyone how depressed he was after she spurned him. He thought about arranging for a disappearance at the time. It used to happen. Guys could run off and join the military or even sign up with an ocean vessel. A quick trip to the library squashed these ideas. The American military was in the middle of major cutbacks after the Vietnam fiasco and it was impossible to get a position on a ship without your merchant marine papers. At least any decent ship and he had no desire to end up missing at sea. Sean swallowed his pride and returned to school that weekend with a better sense of his own place in the great scheme of things. At least only a few people taunted him.
No, the time had come to face up to his mother. He was older now, and if she couldn't deal with him as a legal adult, it was her problem, not his. He walked to the door and found it open. Yep, she was waiting up for him.
Sean stepped inside and saw his mother at the kitchen table. For some reason, the house was built on one level and the kitchen was visible from the main entrance. His dad talked about doing something so there would be a direct entrance to the back porch. However, he needed to find the time to make the modifications to the house. Right now, he worked too many hours to even think about it. His father didn't believe in hiring people to work on the house as he felt it was his job.
"Hello, Sean," his mother said from the coffee table. "Is everything alright? I was worried when it turned nine and you weren't home."
"I'm fine, mom. Tired and I need to go to bed. I'm supposed to meet up with Dion and Lilly tomorrow at the mall. I might look for a job while I'm down there."
His mother had continued to stare at him in the eyes as he walked into the house. He looked away instinctively. It was something he needed to stop doing: assume the submissive tone of a whipped dog. He knew what she was doing, but right now, he just wanted to get to bed and away from her. The last thing he needed was a confrontation.
"Are you sure?" she told him.
Sean kept walking. She would probably leave him alone this evening. At least she hadn't said anything about the bruise on his color bone. He's made certain to cover it up before going in the house. Almost to his bedroom, had to be careful not to arouse any suspicion.
"Never felt better," he told her when he closed the door behind him. There, he'd made it. Now all he needed to do was get in bed and dream nice things about a girl named Emily.

Chapter 2

It was a short hike to Emily's house the next day and Sean left a note for his mother. He claimed he was headed to the mall with some friends to find a job. Walking anywhere in their neighborhood was a challenge as the subdivisions weren't built with foot traffic in mind and there were no sidewalks. Anyone walking down the road was seen as a potential troublemaker. He managed to get up early enough to avoid the looks of people leaving for work.
Finally, he arrived at Emily's house. By his wristwatch, it meant he was just in time to arrive when they'd agreed. Dion would be ready to show up and they would head back to the mall one more time to see what awaited them. After yesterday, he was ready for whatever the mall sent in their direction. All he really wanted was to see Emily again.
She was waiting for him out front when he arrived. Sean walked down the driveway and she almost ambushed him from the hedges. One minute he was wondering if his clothes were presentable, in case her father was still home, the next he felt her arms around him and her lips on his.
"Wow," he told her. "Do you always greet guys this way?"
"Only you," she said. "Is everything alright? Did your mother give you a hard time last night when you went home?"
"No. What about you? Is your dad all right? I know you've been concerned about him for a long time." He'd felt her pain when their inner minds merged. Sean still had difficulty separating his thoughts from hers after yesterday. It was as if another person was inside his head.
"We had a father and daughter talk," she said. "He went into work and I made him promise to get out and meet some decent women."
"He still can't get over your mother. He needs to let go. At least you're eighteen and don't have to go visit her if you don't want to."
"Listen to who is talking. Did you stand up to your mother last night? No? I didn't think so. Let's go under the tree and wait for Dion and Lilly. The neighbors will stare if we put on too much of a show. I know a neighbor is watching us right now."

Sean and Emily continued to be inseparable in the back seat of the van when they continued onto the mall.
"Hey, you two," Lilly yelled from the passenger seat up front, "keep in mind we have to go back into that mall today and tomorrow. You need to keep your senses sharp before we enter that place."
She didn't get much of a response.
"I don't like it," Dion said as they approached the entrance to third section of the mall. "It's too quite outside. Where are Karanzen and his thugs? It's past ten in the morning and the mall is open. I expect he'll greet us very soon.
Dion closed his eyes and tried to feel if any elementals were close by. He couldn't feel any of the stronger ones, but if this part of the mall was dedicated to the element of water, where would they be? The nearest body of water was miles away and it wasn't more than a large creek. They would make an appearance. He knew it. The elementals had no intention of allowing him to gain power over them if they could prevent it. The others had failed in their attempts to stop him, but he still needed the other two powers. And God only knew what lay inside that tower dedicated to the fifth element...
The doors to the mall popped open the moment they reached them.
Karanzen came marching out with four of his best men. They formed a cup outside the doors with Karanzen at the bottom and the other four on the sides. It was similar to the bowl of death the cheerleader elementals had formed the day before. Same concept.
"Sorry, Dion," the security chief informed him. "You just lost your right to be inside here." Karanzen folded his arms across his thick chest and starred down at the four youths in front of him. "I guess your uncle doesn't want you in here anymore."
"Your uncle?" Sean said to him. "He owns this place?"
"Majority stockholder," Dion explained. "Which means he can get what he wants. Don't worry; I just learned yesterday he was the one who built this place."
"I guess family isn't everything," Karanzen snickered. "Now get out of here before I call the sheriff and have you arrested. Your friends have to leave too. They came in with you, they leave with you."
"Leave, Officer Karanzen?" Dion asked him. "Leave as you did in the Chosin Reservoir? You want me to flee the same way?"
Karanzen became quiet.
He was in the frozen landscape of Northern Korea as he fled from the burning tank. The Chinese 'volunteers' had destroyed the tank minutes after they found it and flowed over the hills after him and his men. He'd accidently discovered the main body of the Chinese counterattack as it swarmed across the mountains after the United Nations Forces. He ran and didn't stop until his legs gave out. In the distance, he could hear orders and commands in Mandarin as the Chinese hunted down any troops they could find. It was cold, colder than he'd ever had to encounter in the open before. Explosions lit up the sky and it revealed the extent of the troops moving south. But he had no radio to let his side know what was on the way.
Dion watched Karanzen, as he stood there with his mouth opened, hardly able to say a word. His own men stopped and turned to look at their boss. A few of them had seen these episodes. They were rare, but the smart thing to do was just ignore them and go about your business. No one, other than the four they were supposed to keep out of the mall, stood outside the doors. It could change in a minute with more people walking their way through the parking lot.
Finally, one of the security guards, Izzy, walked over to Karanzen and spoke to him. It was all fine for him not to respond to questions in his office, but out in front of the mall it made everyone look bad.
"Are you there, boss?" the man said to Karanzen.
As they stood and watched Karanzen's still form, everyone heard the sound of a bus pull up in front. No one found it odd the bus didn't make any noise as it entered the parking lot. One minute the traffic was normal inside the lot, the next minute they were startled by the sound of an English double-decked bus as it pulled up in front of the walkway to the mall entrance. The bus was noisy and let everyone know it arrived by the loud sound of its horn when it came to stop. They could hear the sound of the brake as it was set in place.
"I didn't know those things were over here," Lilly said to Dion. "First time I've ever seen one outside of movies."
"I don't think this is a normal bus," Dion said to them. "I feel some elemental movement. I believe we are about to see something other than people arriving for a tour."
The moment he finished speaking, the doors opened to the bus and a horde of young women poured out of it. For a second Dion thought, it was a return of the air elemental cheerleaders, but these girls, all of who looked no older than eighteen, wore tracksuits and flip-flops. Across the front of their designer suits the logo "Aquarian Synchronized Swim Team" was emblazed. They proceeded to climb out of the bus for a good two minutes until an older woman in the same outfit exited with them. She looked at the mall and made some notes on a pad. Satisfied, she returned to the bus, the doors closed and it continued on its way.
Halfway out of the parking lot, the bus vanished.
"Nymphs," Dion announced. "They're nymphs."
"Really?" Sean said. "Sounds like my lucky day. Ouch!" The exclamation came from Emily punching him in the side.
"Not those kind nymphs," Dion said. "Water nymphs. As in elementals. These are water elementals and they've arrived just in time to get us into the mall."
They had the same clear skin and ivory teeth as the cheerleaders the day before, but this group seemed light-hearted. The skipped down the walkway, singing and dancing as they went. The security guards neglected their boss who was still in a daze and turned their attention on the young women. On the side of the doors were glass windows and Dion could see men pushing to get a better view of the swim team as they came up to the entrance.
"Naiads I think," Dion continued as they came closer. "Just be careful. I don't know whom they are bound to at this moment. They tend to stick with a particular location. If they've been brought in here, it's for a reason. Don't get to close, if you form any type of attachment to them, they can become very possessive."
He felt Lilly's arm around him and noticed Emily pull Sean over to her.
The effect of the Naiads was powerful and neutralized any bad thoughts a person might have. Unlike the sylphs from yesterday, these creatures were already in their natural form. He'd seen them in lakes and on the beach at the ocean with his parents, who warned Dion to avoid them. Countless sailors had learned the hard way it wasn't a good idea to spend time with the Naiads. If they took a fancy to you, they didn't like to give you up.
The four friends moved out of the way, as the swim team swarmed around the guards, admiring their uniforms and badges. One took off a guard's cap and admired herself in its reflection. Another patted the badge on one guard's uniform. They seemed happy and carefree, which made it hard to avoid starring at them.
At that moment, Karanzen left his cataleptic state and saw two of the young women dance around him. He was speechless. He'd been terrified for his life and now he was facing two of the most beautiful women he'd ever seen. Where was he?
The swim team swarmed past the speechless guards and began to flow into the mall on a wave of laughter. Dion realized they had the opportunity needed to get inside.
"Follow them," he told his friends. "Go in with them; just don't get taken in by them."
Dion and his friends joined the mass of the naiad swim team as it swept into the mall as one continuous wave. The security guards had no idea what they encountered as the young women swept past them. Dion and friends managed to position themselves inside the group and avoid any confrontation with the security guards.
It worked. They were inside the mall in seconds, moving with the happy swim team as it continued onward in one mass. The four friends stayed to the middle and bounced along with them. They waited until they were far inside the mall and away from the main entrance until they peeled away from the water elementals. Exhausted, they went to one side of the mall and panted in relief.
The swim team had an instant effect on the shoppers in the mall. Men turned in their direction and looked on in admiration. Young women were impressed, as were the older ones with daughters. Young guys were inclined to find out who they were, what school they attended and did any of them have boyfriends? The elementals stayed together, but for the next few minutes they could have robbed the mall blind and no one would've noticed. They shared this with the air elementals that'd been there the day before in the form of cheerleaders.
Dion watched as they found their destination and headed toward it: a temporary store that sold swimwear for people who planned to vacation in the Caribbean. The mall had several of the "pop-up" stores which used spaces not rented out full-time and only needed the location for six months. By August, the store would close and a new place would open in the same location, probably a place that sold Halloween costumes.
Still in their tracksuits, the girls wandered over to and filed inside. As Dion still observed them, the swim team proceeded to strip off their suits. This created another round of interest as a mob of men soon gathered outside the store and watched. Much to their disappointment, and to the relief of their wives, the swim team had swimsuits on underneath the tracksuits. Each of them wore a different one. Most had two-piece bikinis, others had one-piece suits. Each was a different style. As the crowd of curious on-lookers moved into the store, the manager placed a sign in the window, which told those interested in the team who they were.
"I don't believe it," Sean said as Emily held on to him. "A bikini team."
"Not all of them have bikinis on," Dion said. He watched them take their tracksuits and stack them in the corner.
"I'm not complaining."
This time Emily stepped on Sean's foot.
Most of the customers appeared to be guys. Dion watched through the window, as men of all shapes and sizes would go inside the store, see a member of the swim team with a suit on her that he liked, and then ask about the price. This repeated itself over and over until the cash register was running full throttle and the sales staff working hard to keep up with everyone. Soon, a long line ran down from the sales counter to the end of the store. A large group waited outside the store, and private security guard appeared to escort people in and out.
"You have to admit," Sean said to Dion, "it is an effective way to boost sales."
"Are you going to go buy me something?" Emily said. "Because I have my eye on one of those."
Sean took out his wallet and looked at it. "Uh, cash is a little short today."
"Then don't go anywhere near it!"
"I'm glad I don't have to be the one who tells those men the girls aren't human," Dion said. "I don't think they'd like their bubble popped, so it won't happen."
"And these are water spirits?" Lilly asked him. She had on a jeans jacket to match Dion's today, but wore a pair of black pants and heels. Her mother commented before he picked her up that she had to have her eye on a new boy since Lilly was taking so much time to get ready.
"Elementals," he corrected her. "A spirit is someone who once walked the earth in human form. These have existed as separate intelligences for thousands of years. They may have been here before humanity made an appearance."
"I'm guessing they come in different forms?"
"Of course. You have the various types. Some never leave the water. The ones over there can exist out of water for long periods of time. Then you have the mermaids, which can never leave the ocean, the Lorelei that only live in mountain streams and the sirens that lure men to their death through song. The sirens are the most dangerous ones, but I don't even think the sprites, which have very little interaction with humans, are safe. All of them resent the way humanity have manipulated the waterways and ocean to their advantage. I always find a way to warn people away from them if I see any around when I swim or even use a boat. You can't allow yourself to get too close because they will become infatuated with you and won't leave. If you spurn one they will find a way to do some harm. Too many people every year become involved with water elementals and fail to realize what they've done."
"Always women?" Lilly asked further. "If they're supernatural, why couldn't they assume any form they wanted?"
"One of the great mysteries of the universe. I've only seen water elementals manifest as women. Same for the air elementals. Something to do with generative powers, but I don't really know. I don't think anyone does. When you work with elementals, there are things you don't question so long as they give you the results you want. Since you need to be very careful when manipulating them, it doesn't pay to toss the rule book away."
"Since we know they're elementals and not human," Sean said, "we'll be safe and not have to worry."
"Not for the time being... " Dion said. "Now we have to figure where the Water Elemental Grandmaster is located in this part of the mall."
"You sure know a lot about them," Lilly said.
"I was raised by water elementals until I was five."
"What? I thought you had normal parents like the rest of us."
"I did, but they needed help to raise me. Mother was busy typing up all of dad's material and she didn't have time to watch me all the time, so she found some water elementals to look after me until I was old enough to leave unsupervised for more than five minutes. At least that's what they told me."
"I thought you just said water elementals are dangerous," Emily spoke up.
"They are to most people. But mother had two elemental manipulation powers: water and fire. She was able to bind some of the higher elementals to work for her for a limited time. When you do that, you have to give them something in return, but I don't know what she traded to get help. All I remember are three young girls who looked after me day and night. Every time I woke one, would walk me to the bathroom or get whatever I needed. I was in the hospital when my tonsils were removed and they took turns in shifts watching after me. Mother didn't have them out of the house much because she didn't want the neighbors to be suspicious. We were in a middle-class suburb and no one had servants. If they saw three young girls supervising me all the time weren't family, people would have asked questions.
"It was nice because I didn't have to worry about ever being left alone. There was always one of them on stand-by. I dropped a crayon and one of them would pick it up. They don't get bored and lose their attention like human girls, so there was never any worry they might ignore me.
"It's a wonder you ever learned how to do anything on your own," Sean said. "Did you learn to tie your shoes?"
"Yes. Mother had them show me how to do it over and over again until I got it right. As I said, water elementals don't get bored. They took one of them to the store a few times and it turned out not to be such a good idea. They would ignore everyone else in the place except me and my parents. For some reason, mother decided they would blend in better if the ones she chose appeared to be cute, tiny little girls about sixteen to eighteen years of age. They had to be careful if they took them out because every young man in the store or restaurant would find a reason to come talk to them. They would ignore the guys, but even then, I can remember how irritated it would make the men. Plus, if I asked for something, they would get it for me. It didn't matter if my parents had the money or not."
"You parents took them all out at once?" Lilly asked. "I can imagine the looks all of you got."
"No. When they did take them out, it was usually one at a time. They had a big pool in the backyard and it was alright to leave them in it. I don't know where mother found them, but she mentioned one time they were causing a problem in a neighbor's Olympic-sized pool at one point.
"Did they ever spank you when you did something wrong?" Sean laughed.
"No, discipline was something my mother handled. I couldn't get away with anything because they would let her know right away."
"So what ever happened to them?" Lilly asked.
"My parents had to get rid of them when I turned six. They tried to attack me."
He could see the eyes widen on his friends.
"I was at the beach one day with them, playing just like we always did. Never had much trouble from the locals once they realized they wouldn't take their attention off me. I was splashing in the water when an older woman came up and talked to them. I thought it was a little odd because even if they acknowledged someone else, one of the three had their attention focused in my direction. This time they all listened intently to what she had to say."
"When I came out of the water, they turned and started to walk in my direction. I was scared because of the look on their faces, it didn't seem normal and I ran. They chased after me, but a man driving a delivery truck saw them and called to me. He raced them off and they didn't follow. He went right away to a pay phone and phoned my dad. I still think he was another element worker who recognized something. My parents came and took me home. The next day mom told me the girls were gone and would not be replaced.
I remember my parents having a big fight over it and I don't think it was just because of the three water elementals. There was more to it and I've always thought it was strange the delivery truck driver, whom I never saw again, was there when it happened.
Anyway, that is my story about being raised by water elementals. I think they are unstable when it comes to humans. Too much unpredictability to make good use of them. They might look to be all happy and free, but they are still wild at heart."
"That one beat any bad story about growing up I ever had," Sean said. "My mother was a little nuts, but I never had to worry about a killer babysitter."
"I've carefully worked with water elementals because of what happened. I still don't know who the woman was that talked to them. I don't know if she had some way to control them and why she would want them to harm me. I was afraid; certain they were going to kill me."
Dion pulled the map of his jacket and began to look at it. It should tell him where the elemental grandmaster was located; he only needed a few minutes to consult it. As he began to go over the parchment and look for the location, Emily and Sean went to one side of him, right next to one of the support pillars while Lilly stayed by his side.
They obviously needed to talk.
"I don't like it when you are looking at other girls," Emily told Sean. "If we're going to be together for a long time, and last night you told me you wanted to be with me, you need to give me some respect."
Sean was silent. He didn't know what to say. Women were such a mystery to him. Most of the time girls just avoided him. To hear one tell him that they wanted to be with him all the time was a new experience. He tried to remember how his dad met his mother and decided it wasn't a good way to judge Emily. Instead, he tried to hug her without the rest of the mall starring at them.
Emily couldn't understand why Sean was acting in the manner he did. She had talked to him the entire night on the way home to his house in the back of Dion's van. She assumed he was like her dad: suffering for attention. She was ready to give it to him. Having Sean taken away as Dion dropped him off at the house was almost too much. She watched him go inside and felt part of her heart removed. It was a new sensation to be so close to someone. She knew he must feel the same way.
So why had he been so cruel and made those comments about the other girls? All right, maybe she didn't resemble any of those bikini models, but there was nothing wrong with her body. And none of the boys she'd dated ever complained about her appearance. Emily knew how to look good. Today she'd even worn a pair of white pants because she felt Sean would appreciate it on her with the silver streaked top she'd bought last week. He should appreciate what he had by his side.
What neither of them could see was the whole person they'd melded with for a few hours the day before. Eventually the union would be gone. There would be no memory of the way both of their inner minds merged together for a brief moment when the cheerleader elementals had captured them.
But the memory of yesterday was still strong inside their hearts. Sean could still feel the loss of her mother and she the humiliation from his. They shared some pain, not a lot, but enough to bond. For a few hours after they awoke, they were ready to be married. It faded over night, but not by much. Each still felt the other close and couldn't put a name to the sensation. So they called it love, which, given what happened, made sense.
Dion looked up from his map and saw Sean and Emily in a deep conversation. He'd expected something like this. They'd been in close proximity to the elementals yesterday and it meant their hearts merged for quite some time. At least he was able to get them away from the sylphs in time. People who were in the same situation for days could go mad as they lost sense of who they were. The ancient Greek and Roman legends were filled with stories of people who spent too much time around elementals and were never the same again. He hoped they would be able to get some perspective on what happened over time.
Poor Sean had to deal with a girl who really cared for him and had no clue how to take care of her. Poor Emily had to work with a boy who had no sense of worth and didn't understand how she would react to his idle comments. It would be difficult, but in time, they could work it out on their own. In a small way, Dion hoped they would find the strength to stay together. So much dissolution in the world these days and it wasn't good.
"I'm sorry if I offended you," Sean told Emily. "I just never seem to be able to say the right thing. How can I make it up to you?"
"You will," she said and gave him a pinch. "Just don't do it again. My mother left because she liked the attention from other men better than the home my father provided. I guess she's doing fine now, but it was hard for me to take. It was hard for my dad to take and he still has me around. I worry about him when I leave for college."
"I know," Sean said, "you still can't get him to consider other women. I saw it yesterday and I know how you want him to get out. I guess he'll never get back with your mom."
"Not a chance. Just as if your mother will hound your father until the day he drops dead. I don't know what the problem is, we seem to have endured bad mothers, but have you ever considered it wasn't their entire fault? You blame your mother for a lot, but she did raise you to do good the best way she knew how. What do you expect from someone with her background? I've come to terms with my mother and her issues, you should do the same."
The two of them held each other tightly for a while. It seemed to release much of what had happened a few minutes ago.
"Third day I've seen you here, Dion," a voice said to him. "I think we have a pattern developing."
Emily and Dion looked up to see Detective Jones from the Scipio Police standing next to them. His investigations into Dion's uncle, who owned the mall, must've born some fruit if he was there already. The previous day they'd discussed mutual help, as Dion knew his Uncle Seth was behind the construction of the mall. His uncle was the one who held his parents captive inside the clock tower in the center of it. None of this information did him any good if he couldn't find a way to use it when he found the other elemental grandmasters.
"I wish I had more information for you," Dion told him. "But there isn't much I've learned in the past twenty-four hours."
"I've had some interesting developments on my end," Jones said. "I pulled a rabbit out of the hat, so to speak."
Jones liked to think of himself as an amateur magician. He used his tricks to build confidence with suspects. Dion had shown him a small sampling of what he could do with his abilities and they immediately struck up a friendship. Now he was investigating Dion's uncle and wanted Dion to help. Dion was doing his best to keep the exact nature of what he knew about his uncle private.
"Is there anything you can tell me?" Dion asked. "I'm headed to a showdown with him very soon. I can't promise when it will be, but very soon."
Lilly stood next to Dion and didn't say a word. She'd known Jones a long time. She knew about the investigation and how Jones wanted Dion's help.
"He does have the federal boys interested in him," Jones said. "I was in touch with some friends in the FBI today and they're watching him closely. Could be very serious, this one. There is a definite link to the jewel theft I told you about yesterday. They lack evidence to pin it on him. This is why I need you to give me more information if you can find it. The thing is, I just can't figure out why he built the mall here of all places. This area has the interstate, it's good for traffic, but it's still a haul for most people. I don't see it as really turning over for another five years. He might be a big picture guy, but he doesn't strike me as the type."
"There is something he wants very much from this place," Dion said. "I'm not sure exactly what it is, but he seems to think it will make him more powerful than he already is. The mall is the key to it."
"Here? In this town. Come on, what could this little berg have that would make him a big player? They were still milking cows out here five years ago.
"What he's trying to control doesn't have to exist here in a way you'd recognize. All he needs is a place where he can manipulate it. From there he can pretty much do anything he wants to."
"You make it sound like he's building a nuclear weapon or something."
"It wouldn't be far from the truth."
Jones shook his head and stepped a little closer to Dion. "You need to know the FBI is ready to turn this over to someone else. Someone else with more ammunition than they can muster. I don't know what they've found in Washington, but something has scared them very badly. I know they hauled in some guy named Simon and drilled him for information. He didn't seem to know anything, at least what they wanted to know. The feds won't stop there. They'll keep at it until they have decided whether or not your uncle is a threat. If they don't think he's a threat, I'll get to make nice with the county and see what we can do because this place is out of my jurisdiction. If they think he's a threat, it could get real nasty."
"How nasty?"
"Nasty as in armored personnel carriers moving into position."
Dion looked at the wall.
The situation with his uncle was going to get much worse before it was better. How in the world was he supposed to get his parents free if he had to worry about some massive assault from the government? It shouldn't be a concern; his uncle could summon up forces far more terrifying than Uncle Sam. But if they were looking into his uncle's work, they might have some idea what he was capable of doing. Perhaps there was a mystical division at the Pentagon, which looked into sinister forces from the abyss and tried to figure out what they could do against them. It wouldn't surprise him.
"How far do you think they are from making some kind of decision?" he asked detective Jones.
"I don't like to speculate with the feds," he replied. "But I think they'll make their mind up in a matter of days instead of weeks. If they think your uncle is trafficking in any kind of weapon system, they'll start to move the minute they decide what to do."
It was something else he had to contend with: an armed response. Dion looked around the new mall and was filled with a hideous vision of paratroopers in the parking lot and soldiers smashing in through the windows. He knew it would only come to that as a last resort, but his uncle played a dangerous game if he thought he could use the power of the abyss and no one was ever going to notice. Someone had, that was for sure.
"Just keep me informed what you learn," Jones told Dion. "The heavy stuff may come down sooner rather than later and I want to be on top of it."
"I will," Dion assured him. "I do have one question though."
"What?"
"How did you know where to find us? We were on the other side of the mall yesterday."
Jones pointed across the hall at a bench. "He told me." Then he walked away.

Chapter 3

Wearing a tracksuit and holding a bottle Doctor Cola, this year's marketable soft drink, was Edward. He had matching shoes on and a terry cloth headband around his forehead. He stood up, dropped the plastic bottle in the nearest trash receptacle and walked toward the four friends.
"I see you managed to subdue the sylphs," he said to Dion. "I congratulate you on such ingenuity. Even with full air elemental abilities, few element manipulators would've understood how to handle that whirlwind."
"Thank you. Oh, and the car key gambit worked. It took out the cheerleader elementals the moment I tossed it into their midst."
"I used it before with other objects. Once you understand the nature of these creatures, manipulating them becomes very easy."
"Not always," Lilly said. "Dion just told us that his elemental nannies almost killed him when he was little."
"I'm aware of what happened there. Did you ever talk to your parents about the incident?"
"No," Dion said. "My father was furious over the elementals attacking me and refused to ever use them so close again. He told me they can be very unstable and you should never turn your back on them."
"He never mentioned why the woman had given them a command to injure you?"
"I assumed it was something to do with their nature. She said the wrong thing and it created a coded message in their heads that set them off."
"I see. And you never wondered why the truck driver just happened to be in the same location when you were forced to run?"
"I assumed he was another elemental worker and I was fortunate that he was around. He recognized what was happening and might have saved my life."
"We need to talk about this later," Edward told him. "I would prefer your parents talk with you about it first."
Dion looked at him for a few seconds then allowed the line of discussion to drop. "So, Edward, you always make you appearances for a reason. What are we to learn from you this time?"
"I'm here to tell you to beware of you uncle. You've met him and he is not someone to take lightly. I assume you understand this after your brief conversation."
"He did seem like someone with a definite goal in life."
"You uncle wants it all. And he won't stop with the mall. He'll take control of the state and everything else before he's done. If he can achieve world domination, he'll do it too."
"You seem to know quite a bit about my uncle."
"I know more about him than a gentleman should admit. I know he still covets your mother and will not stop until he gets her back. But I expect you know these things too."
"How do we stop him?" Lilly asked, interrupting their conversation.
"You don't stop Seth, you find a way to control him and keep the man from doing too much damage. My recommendation is to seek out your abilities and then obtain the fifth elemental power. Dion's uncle has the fifth power, but he lacks the other four. He assumes he doesn't need it because it's the root of the other four. He thinks he can use it to obtain ultimate power over creation, but he's sadly mistaken. He won't be able to stand up to Dion should Dion obtain the first four before he gains the fifth. He knows this and is determined to prevent his nephew from getting the final two."
Dion turned to walk away but then changed his mind. "You still haven't told us the nature of my uncle," he said to Edward.
"You uncle did not make it across the abyss. To master the fifth element you must conquer the dweller of the abyss and he failed to do that. As a result, the abyss now controls him. It thinks to control this world it needs an agent. It's convinced your uncle that he can have what he needs if it allows the abyss to open the gate and let everything contained inside it across. Should such a thing happen, it will be the end of all life on earth. We can't let that happen. You can't allow that to happen. So you see, the quest you undertake is much larger than you first thought. Yes, you can free your parents, but it's going to be much worse for the human race if you don't stop your uncle on the way. That's why you can't give up."
"So the only way to defeat my uncle is to obtain the fifth elemental power."
"Yes. As I have said, if you possess it, he won't be able to stand up against you. And keep in mind there are things inside that tower which will drive normal people mad just to look at them. Your uncle can call upon them if he needs to do it. But right now you need to worry about finding the Water Grandmaster. And the best way to do it is consider why these charming young ladies are here."
Edward took a few steps forward and shook his head as he starred at the swim team parading around the inside of the store. "I was born much too soon." And then he vanished again.
"We didn't get a whole lot of help from him," Sean said.
"He gave me some information about my uncle. At least now I understand the reason for this quest better than I did before."
Dion returned to the map he carried. He unfolded and tried to locate the store where the Grandmaster was located. For some reason it was not as easy as he expected on the map. He looked at it for a bit longer after he placed it on the nearest table, which the mall provided near a few intersections for the shoppers.
This was far worse than he'd expected when he entered the mall a few days ago. Now he'd discovered the reason his parents were trapped inside the clock tower was an uncle he only met yesterday. And he had to get them out in spite of his uncle's frauds.
Dion roughed his black hair as he tried to figure out what to do next. Lilly sat down next to him and tried to give him comfort. Soon, Emily and Sean were both sitting down at the table.
The map was confusing. The Grandmaster should be visible on the water part of the mall. Everything about this section suggested water. It was painted blue from the main entrance to the firewall between the sections. He'd seen the ghoul cleaners at work here and they bowed as he went by. The ghouls were not in their element in this part of the mall, and they knew it. Their actions were completely different from the way they behaved in the 'earth' part of the mall.

Lilly didn't know what to think about the words spoken by Edward. If it was true, Dion could be in greater danger than she assumed he already was. She felt close to him, but became a little bit worried on the inside. What was it that made her feel so close to him? Both days she had gone home and felt a little bit crazy when she imagined him. She'd looked at the pop star posters on the wall and they felt part of another world. Even college in the fall seemed to be part of a different lifetime. She knew Dion needed her help to find his parents, but she did not feel up to the job of saving the world if what Edward told her was true. Edward hadn't lied to them yet and she couldn't imagine why he would start now.
She turned and watched Dion concentrate on the map and try to find the Water Grandmaster on it. It seemed such a silly title for someone who could manipulate the forces of nature. And what did Edward know about the story Dion told them yesterday? How did he know about the elementals that turned on Dion when he was young? The man knew so many things and yet he was barely human. Lilly couldn't figure out if he was a ghost or not. Ghosts didn't show up in tracksuits and carry cigars. At least none of the ones she knew about.
Meanwhile, Sean was doing his best to try to reconcile what he felt for Emily with everything else in his life. He'd managed to slip out of the house in the early morning after leaving his mother a note. He planned to check in with her soon enough to let her know he was okay.
In some ways Sean was glad she was asleep so that he didn't have to answer questions about what he did the night before. Mom would eventually find out what he'd been up to and then she would go from there to whom he'd been with and eventually find out about Emily. And then she would find some way to show Emily off to everyone she knew. She could at last prove to the neighbors that her son was normal. From there she would try to find other ways to involve Emily in whatever machinations his mother could cook up.
The only thing that could stop her was Emily herself. From his brief peek into her soul, Sean knew Emily wouldn't sit by idly and allow herself to be manipulated. Her mother had done it to Emily's father and tried to use Emily to get what she wanted. Emily resisted and had a bulletproof shield against anyone who tried to exploit her. Sean worried Emily would tell his mother in clear terms what she thought of her mental manipulation. Then it would be a battle of the will over who was stronger. The problem was, he still lived at home and would be caught in between.
Emily watched Dion go over his map too. It seemed like any other map until you looked at it close and discovered it was printed on papyrus and hand-drawn. Then you would notice the different symbols and stores in the mall map that weren't supposed to exist in the normal world. She looked across at Sean and wondered if he could stand up to his mother. She'd put her own mother in place, why couldn't he? They both had fathers who were good providers for their families, but allowed themselves to be used by their wives. Her father had to have known why his wife was out every night and what she was up to back then. His father had to have known why the children wanted nothing to do with their mother when they reached a certain age. Did love make someone so blind they became stupid? It was the only excuse she could see. She didn't want love on unlimited terms. No one really did. If you loved someone, it was forever, she felt, but you had to have limits and reasons. You need boundaries and expectations. Perhaps their fathers had none of these.
At least Sean dressed better today. She needed to work with him on that, but at the same time, she couldn't let him think she was the reason for his change of wardrobe. He needed to learn these things himself.

"I just can't figure this map out today," Dion told his friends. "It won't talk to me or tell me where to find the Grandmaster. Usually the place they can be found shows up rapidly on the map and is highlighted. Not today. I think it might have something to do with it being near the sylphs from yesterday. Anytime it gets close to an elemental, it begins to act funny. The elementals interfere with it somehow."
"Did you look and see if the swimsuit store is on the map?" Lilly asked. "That bikini team is still over there pulling the crowds into the place."
"No, it's not highlighted and it's over here on the map." He touched the map.
When he touched it, there was a sudden glow from it. They all looked at it and tried to find the light's location, but it was gone the moment Dion raised his hand. Dion put his finger down on the map again and one of the stores glowed. He removed his hand and the indicated store went dark again.
"You touch the map," he said to Emily.
Emily placed one manicured nail, coated with a glitter nail polish, on the map, but the store didn't glow. "Guess it only works when you do it," she said.
Dion put his finger back on the map and looked for the source of the glow. The map was illuminated and he could see the reason for it. There was one store that shone brightly among all the others marked. He leaned over and read it.
"The Wild Wet World of Wonder?" he said aloud. "What on earth is this place? Have any of you ever heard of it before? The name sounds right, I will give it that."
"You don't watch TV much, do you?" Emily asked him. "That place runs ads all the time.  You can't turn on the tube without hearing some jingle about pool season."
"You have me there," Dion told her. "I don't watch a lot of TV and I wouldn't know of anything from the commercials. I like to get the news from the papers. In the evening after it had a chance to settle down a bit. The local paper only comes out once a week."
"You sound like my dad," Sean said. "But he reads the city paper in the morning. After he grumbles a bit he gets into the car and heads off to work. I look at it when he's done, but only when he's finished. I try to keep it from my mom because if she finds an advice column which agrees with her, I'll have to listen to her read it aloud.
"Beats finding a clipping next to the cereal bowel," Emily said. "My dad's quiet and it's how he likes to leave his comments."
Dion was busy looking at the map. The guideline didn't trace out the best way to the store this time, which meant it was safe to go there without any interference from them. This could all change in a moment. The security guards didn't appear anywhere either, so they had to be in the middle of some kind of plan. What it was, he was certain to find out soon enough.
The map showed a much bigger location than he'd ever seen before. This store was huge and took up enough space for three or four storefronts. He traced the outline with his finger and noticed it extended out into the parking lot. There had to be some kind of protective barrier around it from the way it was placed on the map. Inside the exterior perimeter of the store was a selection of circles and ovals. He turned to his friends.
"Alright," Dion began. "Can someone please tell me what this place sells?"
"Swimming pools," Lilly said. "My parents were going to put one in a few years ago, but they decided the insurance was too much. I guess it scares insurance agents if they think some kid might drown on your property. So they decided not to put one in and we continued going to the local pool, even if the membership fees kept going up."
"So that is what these circles and ovals represent," Dion spoke up. "They must be display models of some kind. Then why does it have so much space inside?"
"Filters, chemical supplies, floatation devices, the rest," Sean pointed out. "My dad thought about one too and I'm glad he didn't get one. I knew a family who had one and the maintenance is a mess on those things. If you don't keep up with them, they turn into a swamp with algae growing on the bottom and worse. They came back from vacation and found all kinds of aquatic bugs in the pool. It was a mess."
"It must take quite a few people to run this operation," Dion said. "Anyone ever been inside it?
"I have," Emily said. "Last year, a guy I was with wanted to see the hot tubs they sell."
"Frank?" Sean asked.
"Yes."
"Oh, him."
"We went in and looked around for a while," Emily tried to ignore Sean. "But I don't think there was anything that he was interested in. He's an older guy I knew through one of my friends back at school and he started to make me uncomfortable, so I had him take him take me home." She gave Sean a 'there satisfied?' look and continued.
"Anyway I think one of the sales clerks mentioned the place is only open six months out of the year, so they've just started up. They pay for the space all year around, but they shut down the facility in the fall and don't reopen it until the spring because there aren't enough indoor pools to justify keeping it open all year around. Or maybe they keep it open with a skeleton crew; I never did get the story straight. If you look at the front it's not got a high profile even though it's pretty big on the inside."
The spot on the map flashed again and Dion looked down at it. "It just gave me the name of the owner. I expect she's still there."
"What is it?" Lilly asked him.
"Salacia Delphi," it says. "Anyone ever hear about her?"
The table was silent. Dion didn't read the news; they could tell if he didn't know who she was. He was from out of town and it explained quite a bit. However, each of them had lived with the name for years. It was legendary around the town and they'd all heard it spat out or praised over the years.
"She's one of the rich ladies in town," Lilly finally spoke up. "If you've lived around here long enough, you'd hear it every other day. She owns a lot of businesses. I guess the pool store fits right in if she's the water elemental person you need to find.
From what Dion learned, Salacia Delphi made an appearance one day from out of nowhere. She just showed up and rented a store to sell jewelry. This prospered and she got into the beverage business. She had the local market to herself after a few years. From there she branched out into restaurants and gas stations. Before long, she owned just about any business worth having in the town.
She sat on several boards to directors for the town and managed to use her position to find out when any good government projects or opportunities were on the horizon. She always made sure her bids were in on time and she got them more often than not. Still, few people knew about her or where she'd come from.
One theory had her as a gangster's woman who used the money she inherited when a hit was carried out to finance her first business. Other people claimed she knew the dark arts and was able to talk to spirits and find out where buried treasures were located.
She had a tie-in with the local powerboat racing team and sponsored their races every year. It was claimed she saved the life of a boat pilot one year when she managed to get him out of the water quickly after a collision. No one knew how she did it, but the man was seen to emerge from the boat before it sunk and was pulled across the lake. He came straight to her on the shore, but never remembered crawling out of the boat.
"She bound an elemental to get him out, "Dion concluded when Lilly told him the story. "It would have been easy for her to do it, being a Grandmaster.
"Someone told me she never calls the water truck in to fill up her own pool," Sean said.
"I'm told she wears blue all the time," Emily added. "She once said it was her favorite color.
"Her company is listed as 'Queen of Water Cups,' Sean said. "I had a friend who did yard work for her and he showed me the check she gave him."
"Settles it," Dion said. "She has to be the woman we're trying to find. Does anyone know if she wears anything with aquamarine on it?"
"Never been that close to her," Emily said. "She's private and doesn't leave the house very often from what I understand. She bought an old bank building and remodeled it. I think someone said she uses the vault for her own valuables."
"She might be keeping a really big elemental in there," Dion said. "If she's an elemental Grandmaster, she could easily do it. I'd be afraid of anything she needed a vault to lock up."
"What do you think it might be?" Lilly asked.
"Hard to say. There are all kinds of things she wouldn't want out in public when it comes to the water element. Elementals that can cause floods or freeze water. You unleash the wrong one and the town could find itself in the middle of a disaster. They're nothing to mess with, especially if you don't understand them."
"I think she's Greek," Emily said. "Someone told me he heard her speaking in Greek on the phone when she was at one of her businesses."
"The Elemental Grandmasters can come from anywhere," Dion said. "They don't have to be tied into any one country or land. I know one of the Air Grandmasters was from the Khalari."
"How long does it take to become a Grandmaster?" Sean asked. "Is it something you're born into or do you have to train?"
"Like everything else, some of us have a little bit more ability than others. I was given my ability when I was born, but it doesn't mean I'll always have it. Furthermore, everyone has some ability to control the elements, but most people don't know and wouldn't want to put the work into acquiring it. So it's a little bit of both. You can learn and you can be born with more than the next person can. But if you don't work and develop what you have, it will soon be gone. There is no guarantee you will always have the ability. It's why I train as hard as I do."
"I wish it was possible to just summon up a picture of her," Lilly said, "and then we would know exactly what she looks like."
"That day has not yet come," Dion said. "I can't even conceive of that level of ability. I would think it would happen by technology before it would be something you could use an element to create."

Chapter 4

Ohio had more than its fair share of backyard swimming pools. Much of the state spent the spring months paying for water trucks to come in and fill their backyard lakes. It was part of the local culture and nowhere was it more evident than the subdivisions outside the city of Scipio. An entire industry evolved around men who wanted to place small oceans behind their houses because it gave them status and the kids something to do in the summer months.
The working class families would pay for above ground pools, in the hopes they could do the installation themselves. It was possible to do it, but it was no easy task to carry out.
First of all, the ground had to be dug out in a radius much larger than the pool itself was going to occupy. Most of the time it was for maintenance, but some families liked the placement of crushed stone or small river pebbles around the pool to make it easier to work on the yard around it. Once the dirt was dug out, it needed to be transported somewhere. In some cases, the dirt could be hauled to the side of the house and dumped against it. If there were no better way to eliminate the dirt, it would need to be hauled out to a dumpsite. This was not too hard to do if you had children at home who were eager to get the pool up and become the talk of the neighborhood.
Next came the layer of sand beneath the pool, which had to be hauled in to the yard. Only the cleanest sand could be use as there could be no rocks or other imperfections beneath it. Once the sand was in place, it had to be smoothed out. This was often done with a big roller that was weighted down to accomplish the task. The sand needed smoothed to a mirror finish, nothing else would do.
Because the next phase involved the liner itself. Made of the highest quality vinyl polymer, the liner needed a smooth base, which would not puncture it. Once the liner was placed, the aluminum wall would be assembled in a perfect circle around the sand. The final part of the assembly took place when the liner was mated to the wall around the pool. The junction needed to be perfect so no water would leak out. When the liner was in place and the wall up, it was inspected for suitability, as any leak or warp in the wall could bring it down in seconds, sending a useless tidal wave across the yard.
The water truck would arrive and the neighborhood children would become quiet as the pool was filled. There was a special moment of silence as the fresh and clean water filled the pool. After the water was placed inside it, the parents would appear and check the pool for sturdiness. Only when the pool was pronounced safe were the neighborhood children allowed to make use of it.
Pool culture ranged everywhere in this Midwestern town. To the north of Scipio, there was an entertainment complex, which consisted of a drive-in movie theater and a swimming pool. Across the road, there was another swimming pool. Private pools where you had to pay an annual membership and pass approval by a committee where everywhere. Too far from the coasts for surf culture to exist, the young kids nevertheless created their own water culture around small fishing boats wherever they could find a lake. It was a thing particular to that time and place.
This is why Salacia Delphi's big pool store did such great business in the spring months. Already the families were lining up to see what new pools she had for them this year. She's spent the cold months unloading prefabricated pools and finding just the right balance of art and practicality for each one. It was a work of art to find the right look for each display and she was often seen spending hours to get the perfect effect.
Salacia Delphi was not a large woman, but she was not one to be trifled with. Woe be to the delivery van driver who thought he could drop his items and get out without giving her exactly what she ordered. Salacia was known to spend hours examining the manifest to find just one missing bucket of water treatment chemical. It was said she could tell you exactly where any item was at a given time in the any one of her stores. She was known to drop in at an unexpected moment and do an inspection.
Few people were aware of her abilities as a Water Element Grandmaster. She wanted to keep it that way. The less people knew about what she could do, the better. She would wait a good five minutes after everyone left before she would go out to her private pool and see what her water nymphs were up to that day. She'd brought a whole class of them from Greece with her that no one knew about. She'd found them at the bottom of a well on the island of Patmos and bribed them into coming with her. This batch could create a tidal wave with very little trouble. Since they would be inland, there was very little opportunity for a disaster of that scale to take place.
However, there were many other things this species of elementals could do and she planned to take advantage of them. Right now was not the time to make use of their powers, it would come later. So she kept them in her private pool when she was home and placed them back inside the safe while she was gone. It continued to worry her about what might happen should a thief try to crack her safe. He or she would be in for quite a surprise.

***

"So, now that we know the location of the Water Grandmaster," Sean said to Dion. "Do we just walk over there?"
"We might as well. If they try to stop me reaching her, and they will, they won't try anything until we get near the store." Dion rolled up the map and put it in his jacket.
"I think they already have something planned," Lilly said as she nodded toward the swimwear place across from them.
Dion looked at it and saw the swim team putting on their tracksuits. They formed a line and went to the back of the store where each one picked up their own suit and slipped into it. Next, they formed another line and marched out of the store, much to the disappointment of the men waiting on the outside. The swim team line swam out of the store and headed down the main concourse of the mall.
"You think they'll go toward the pool store?" Emily asked Dion.
"They're going in the right direction. Guess we'll head there too and find out."
The four friends stood up from the table and walked down the concourse in the same direction.
They didn't notice any of Karanzen's security guards watching them. However, it wasn't important since the mall had plenty of new security cameras. The cameras covered only the areas with the heaviest traffic, but they still could track their movements through the mall. Right now, the officer was probably in his office doing the slow burn over the four of them gaining entrance to the mall. Dion kept in mind the offensive maneuver by Karanzen might've been a ruse to make them think he didn't want them inside. The swim team elementals had appeared conveniently when he blocked the entrance.
The foot traffic picked up once they entered the main part of this section of the mall. There were quite a few people who made their way, as the day was good for an excursion to the mall. No one gave four young people walking together a second glance as they were assumed to be out shopping, just like everyone else.
The pool store had a small profile on the inside of the mall. Since it was open only six months out of the year, the mall had rented them a corner section that didn't allow for much window space. It meant the windows could be cleaned with little trouble, but the potential customers couldn't see the vast interior of the store. It compensated by having a large exterior display, which was where the actual pools were kept. The patrons of the store would enter from the outside through a gate or from another door inside the store.
When they reached the pool store, the water elementals were already there. Crowds of them stood at the entrance and blocked it as they chattered on with the store manager. Dion looked, but couldn't see the owner who he needed to reach. He hoped she was inside the store somewhere.
The swim team made their way inside and soon had the same effect on the pool store's patrons as they did on the ones in the swimsuit store. From the outside, they watched them walk through the store and talk with the staff. They would swarm around and check out the products on display. Once again, mass chaos had broken out.
Dion took them inside the store with him. No sales clerk greeted them, as they were all busy with the sudden appearance of the swim team. Still he could not see the form of Salacia Delphi. They wandered around the isles watching the nymphs in human form pull things off the shelf and put them back.
"Can I help you with something?" Dion heard one clerk ask one of the elementals as she picked up a box containing a raft from the stack and look it over. The nymph ignored him and placed it back, then grabbed one of the exact same types and looked at it.
This continued while Dion attempted to ask any of the staff about the lady who owned the place. None of them could help him because he was too busy ensuring the nymph he watched didn't walk off with a product from the store. In effect, the staff was overwhelmed.
"Let me try," Emily told Dion.
She walked into visual range of a sales clerk who was restacking a display the nymphs had torn down a minute ago. Emily gave him her best 'little girl lost' look as he made eye contact with her.
"Excuse me, sir," she said to him. "Is Ms. Delphi in today? I needed to see her about a pool."
"No," he said, "I'm afraid she won't be in until this afternoon. I can help you with anything you might need once they're finished." He glanced in the direction of the swim team, still picking over the store merchandise.
The moment he spoke, one of the nymphs discovered the outside display. She yelled to the rest of them who proceeded to file out the rear door in the direction of the pools. The sales clerks on the inside where relieved to see them go, but their problems were far from over.
Minutes later, the elementals were in the fenced-in area of the exterior store. Two senior sales people worked in this part of the store, as it was the most profitable part of the business. One was in the process of expounding on the attributes of a new pool model to a potential customer. He turned as the swim team column walked past him in the direction of the other pools. Both of the salesmen stood speechless as the girls proceeded to remove their tracksuits and stack them in a corner again. They stood there in a daze as the nymphs, still dressed in an assortment of bikinis climbed up the ladders on the pools and splashed into the water.
Sean saw two guys from his math class enter the store and watch the nymphs splash around in the pool. They came up behind Dion and the girls and stood next to them for a while, trying to figure out the source of the commotion outside. Finally, one of them turned to Sean.
"Where did that swim team come from?" he asked him. "We saw them in the swimsuit store and followed them over here."
"I have no idea," he lied. "We're trying to decide who they are too."
He remembered the names of the guys because they were twins. Not identical twins, but fraternal ones. They both wore glasses and were in his classes. It took him a few more minutes to remember their names: Doug and Dennis. One was slight of build and did not stand out other than having a brother who was in most of the same classes. The other played basketball and was bigger.
"Has anyone tried to speak to them?" Doug, the larger one said. "Not a bad looking one in the bunch."
Sean, who still felt the laser beams of Emily on his back, turned to Doug. "They don't seem to speak to anyone. None of the clerks in here or out there have been able to get them to say a word." He was tempted to tell them the girls in the pool were all nymphs, but decided that explaining to them about water elemental wouldn't help anyone.
Doug was the out-going popular of the two and played on the basketball team. He was in the company of the cook kids and seemed to have a different girl on his arm every month. Sean remembered him from elementary school as the fat kid who grew out of his weight and became popular when he filled out. They lived several blocks away from him in a new house his parents constructed a few years ago. Previously, they'd lived on a farm further out, but his dad sold it to some real estate developers and now the farmstead was a mass conglomeration of houses. His parents had done very well in the deal and lived in a one of the largest houses in the neighborhood.
Dennis, on the other hand, was a bit smaller and had no interest in sports. He spent most of the time in the library studying and working on another college application. He couldn't count on a college scholarship, because his parents told both of them they would have to finance their own higher education. Dennis was obsessed with finding a college where he could get a full scholarship and not have to pay for anything. He figured it would be possible to get a job off campus to provide for his needs, but he needed a place where he didn't have to worry about going into debt for his tuition. And he wanted a prestigious school where he could graduate and find a job in a month after he left college.
Although they were brothers, the two seldom socialized together. Doug had his basketball team friends and spent the summer at basketball camp. Dennis had his books and lab experiments as he tried to find another angle to get into college. If he didn't know they were brothers, Sean would have wondered why they were at the mall together.
"We're here to get some clothes for the spring," Dennis told him. "We were coming out of the Better Men store when we saw those girls in the swimwear place. "Naturally, Doug had to stand there and try to figure out a way to meet one." He glared at his brother."
"You're just jealous, little brother," Doug sniped at him. "You spend all the time with the books; you're never going to meet any girls. He's mad because I dragged him over here to see if we could meet some of these babes. I've got the car keys and he's stuck with me."
"I really wouldn't try too hard when it comes to these girls," Sean tried to tell him.
"Why?" Doug countered. "You not had any luck?"
"It's not that." Sean groped for a word. "They're not what you assume they are."
"You're going to have to explain yourself."
Sean caught a collective look from Lilly and Emily. "I think they're from some foreign country. They don't seem to understand English."
"Where?" Dennis said to him. "If any of them are from Europe I'd expect them to speak our language as it's widely understood over there. I speak Spanish and German, maybe I could interpret."
"See?" Doug said. "You just put him in the right situation and he comes around. I knew all he'd have to do is get out of the library for a few hours."
Doug turned and looked at the girls. "So are you all double dating or something?"
"Something like that," Emily said to him and moved closer to Sean.
"Never could see it," he told her. "Prefer one-on-one myself. This has to be the first time I've ever seen you with a girl, Sean. Dion, it doesn't surprise me. You have more attention from them than you know what to do about."
Dion ignored him and turned from the sight of the splashing nymphs. "We're here to meet the store owner," he told him. "But she had to leave and it looks like we're stuck in the mall for the next few hours.
"Come on, little brother," Doug said to his twin. "Let's see if we can go out there and make some connections." The two went off in search of the nymphs who were frolicking in the pools. The two clerks still stood and watched them, unsure of what to do.
"I really should have warned them," Dion said to his friends, "but I don't know how to do it without making it impossible to find the Grandmaster."
"What do they have to be afraid about?" Lilly said to Dion. "They seem harmless enough. At least they're not trying to kidnap us like the last groups of elementals tried to do."
"They have to be here because someone hired them," Dion explained. "You saw them arrive on that bus. Someone, probably my uncle, paid for their arrival. These are not your normal lake and river water elementals. They have abilities I can only speculate. My uncle wants to keep me away from the Grandmaster so I don't obtain any further powers that might threaten him. He's brought this group in to carry out his plans. Keep in mind they may appear to be normal girls, but they are elementals."
"What harm can they do?" Emily said. "I would think we'd be alright so long as we don't get pulled into one of the pools."
"They'll find a way to work their power. All they need is a source of water to cause a flood or worse. And those two have no idea what they're walking into."
They watched Doug, with Dennis in tow; stroll over to the nearest pool that was set-up in the back lot. They walked over to the side of the pool and called to the two women who were swimming in it. The women ignored Doug as he continued to call out to them. Finally, one of them swam over to his side to see what he wanted.
"The problem with water elementals," Dion told them. "Is that they are attracted to humans every now and then. You see, some of them were human at one time. I don't know how it works, but sometimes an elemental starts out as a human. Sometimes a human ends up an elemental. It all depends on how they find their place in the universe. It's really bad for a nymph to become infatuated with a human. They don't do very well outside water and few people live close enough to large bodies of water. So what happens if a sailor should have a nymph fall for him? He has to stay constantly around a source of water or she will sicken and breakdown. It creates all kinds of problems for both of them."
"You mean she could die?" asked Emily.
"There is no death in elementals," Dion said. "At least not any death we would recognize. They can dissolve after a long time, but the process takes centuries. If they are out of their environment, they go into a form of hibernation and no one knows how long it can last. There are stories of water elementals that became normal again after they'd spent generations in a desert. The other problem of a water elemental falling for a human is what it can do to him. If she tries to keep him under the water, he'll drown. Most elementals understand why humans can't live under the sea, but some of the lower ones don't understand why. Those elementals are very strong, so I assume they know better than to mess with humans."
They looked again across the lot and saw Doug in a deep conversation with one of the nymphs. She had long blond hair, which was plastered across her head from swimming in the water. Her friend was Asian and had black hair, also trailing down her back. She was swimming across the pool as Dennis made eye contact with her.
"So what you're saying," Emily said, "is that a relationship with a water element always turns out bad."
"Not necessarily. But neither the human nor the nymphs seem to realize what they are up against until it's too late. She ends up a pile of salt until he can resurrect her or he ends up sick from spending too much time in the sea. The environment for one isn't always the best one for the other. And eventually, if they are always close to each other, it will happen. Nymphs always appear to be the most beautiful women in the world to the human."
Now both of the water elementals were on the side of the pool talking with the brothers. It wasn't hard to see, even from this distance, the two guys were more than casually interested in the nymphs. Doug had removed his glasses and Dennis his hat while they had deep conversations with the two water elementals that appeared to be human.
"Sometimes the elemental doesn't even know it is one," Dion continued.
"How is that possible?" Sean asked. "Are you telling me some people who are walking around are elemental and are unaware? I would think the first time they caused a log to catch on fire, they'd figure it out."
"But they might consider it lighting or spontaneous combustion. No one knows where elementals originate. They have always been here before, as I heard someone say. Every now and then, someone just remembers they're supposed to be in the water all the time and they're gone. Some people say these strange reports of people who combust happen because someone was supposed to be a salamander and then remembered one day."
"So do you think we should at least warn them about the water elementals?" Sean asked.
Right now, the two men were busy talking to the nymphs. They didn't seem to be lucky that day as the women were busy swimming back and forth while talking to them. They seemed to be playing games with the two young men.
"Right now they don't appear to be making much progress," Emily said as she starred out the back window of the store.
Dennis was still busy at the side of the pool. He'd learned the name of the girl swimming in the pool with the straight black hair: Dirce.
"Dirce?" he called back to her. "Is that anything like Circe?"
"No!" she cried, splashing water at him. "You're thinking of someone else. She's a distant cousin of mine."
Dennis had never seen a girl so beautiful before. Her skin was flawless and colored a deep tan that could only come from steady exposure to the sun on a beach. Her eyes were a deep green and he could see the entire world inside them. She wore a yellow bikini and swam across the pool as if she was born in it.
"Where did you learn to swim so well?" Dennis asked her.
"Where did you learn to walk?" she returned. "I don't worry about things like that. I've always been able to swim. Have you always been able to walk?"
"Well, no, I had to learn, but we all do."
"You can swim a few weeks after you're born, did you know that? If you'd been taught, you might have been swimming earlier than walking."
The girl swam across to the other side of the pool and pulled herself up on the edge. As she sat there, the rays of the sun fell down upon her illuminating her body a bright gold. She leaned back and her hair became instantly dry. Dennis couldn't figure out how she managed to do that one, he decided it had to have something to do with the angle of the sun. She looked across the pool at her with her big green eyes and smiled at him.
"I like you," she said and jumped back into the water.
His brother wasn't having much luck with the blond near him. She kept swimming back across the pool, trying to avoid conversation. However, he continued to push himself on her.
"What school are you from?" he asked. "If you're on a team it has to be one of the local ones? Montfair? St. Barbara? You can tell me, come on."
"Why don't you guess some more?" she sighed, as the girl paddled back.
Dion watched the girl with the black hair swim back across the pool toward Dennis. She stopped when she was right at the edge where he was standing and put her hands on the edge of the pool. As he watched, the girl reached one hand out to Dennis and touched his.
Dennis felt as close to heaven as he would ever be in this life. Ever since he was a small kid, he'd believed the only way to succeed in life was by pure reason. It had lifted humanity out of the pit and created civilization. To that end, he applied himself with his studies and tried to get ahead as much as he could. It wasn't easy; the school where they went was full of professor and military officer kids, all of whom wanted the open slots at the major colleges. He would spend endless hours at night studying for exams. Dennis spent more time on science fair projects than most scientists did on grant proposals.
It helped him be noticed by some important colleges when he began to apply to schools. The endless hours he spent on prep work for his college entrance exams helped too. But what it didn't help was get him noticed by the opposite sex. It wasn't that he had trouble with attention from the girls... they considered him invisible. He had that in common with Sean, but at least his parents understood. His parents felt their children should leave the house and make their way in the world when they turned eighteen and no money would come from them for college. This was another reason Dennis spent all his time pouring over books in the library.
So when he found that a beautiful girl swimming in a pool wearing a bikini paid attention to him, Dennis was overjoyed. His brother had dragged him into the pool store after they saw the swim team go inside it. Dennis wanted to get back home. There were more applications for financial aid to fill out and letters to write. Wasting time on some trivial girl chase was beneath him. However, his brother had the car keys, so he was forced to follow along.
And now a gorgeous girl, easily the loveliest one he'd ever laid eyes on was touching his hand.
"I need to get down there," Dion said, "or something bad is going to happen." He made his way out the door to the exterior lot where the pools were on display and the swim team elementals were frolicking. He didn't have a lot of time and needed to act quickly.
The two sales clerks where still in the lot starring at the sight of twelve stunning girls swimming in the pools. No one was supposed to enter those them without the owner's permission. She didn't like anyone using the pools; they were supposed to be there just for display. On some special occasions, she would allow select customers to use them, but this was rare.
"I guess the boss hired them to come out and promote the pools?" one clerk said.
"I guess," the other added. "But you'd think she would have called and told us first. What do we do?"
"Let them swim," the other said. "The boss will be here in a few hours. She can tell us what to do then. You know how she doesn't like it when we call her at the office." He turned and looked at the growing crowd assembled at the windows, as they looked into the exterior lot from the main store. "Seems to be attracting potential customers, so it must be her doing."
Dion was almost down the aisle between the pool models when he saw the elemental's hand touch the one that belonged to Dennis.
Dennis felt her fingers make contact with his and looked at the fine white hand over his own. He looked up into the eyes of Dirce as she smiled at him.
"I really like you," she told him.
The pool and entire lot vanished.

Chapter 5

Dennis was at the bottom of the ocean. At least it appeared to be the bottom of the ocean.
Don't starfish live on the bottom of the sea, he thought. That's funny; I didn't realize so many fish were around here. He looked at the soil where he stood and realized his feet were sunk into a layer of sand, which lined the floor. He looked up and saw the surface of the water from the other side. There was a creature floating down to his level. Was it a dolphin?
It turned out to be Dirce; she was covered with her long black hair. It had to be her because the green eyes were the same. She swam around him and lightly touched his face.
"I like you very much," he heard her say. She didn't say it as much as think it because her mouth never opened.
He watched her swim around him without effort. She was right; it was so much easier to swim than walk. He stood there and wondered why it had never hit him before that life on the bottom of the sea was so much better than life on land. He felt warm in the water and it was very quiet, as sound in the ocean didn't travel very far.
Dirce came closer and took his hand. He felt himself begin to fly over the floor of the ocean. She held onto him as she swam to an outcropping of coral on the floor. Once she found it, Dirce sat her and Dennis down on it and continued to look at him.
At that moment, he forgot about the mall, college, his brother, the family and everything else in his life. All he wanted to do was sit there and stare at the most beautiful woman in the world. She sat there with the long black hair drifting about her and stroked his face. Dennis was beyond care. It didn't matter if he was in a dream or not. This was the only place he wanted to be. The sun drifted down to their level through the hazy underwater world and he felt at peace for the first time in his life.
"Do you like me?" Dirce said without speaking to him. She had her legs folded underneath her golden body, but the long black hair clothed her better than any gown could.
"How could I not like you, Dirce?" he said. "You are gorgeous. I think I must be dead and in heaven. Are you some kind of angel?"
"No," she laughed in a voice, which sounded of bells, "I'm a naiad, a water nymph, elemental; your kind call us many things. I have been around for a long time and I will continue to be here for much longer. Time has no meaning to us, not like it has to you, because you have so little of it."
He continued to sit on the coral and admire the ocean. More fish swam by, some very big. He saw a shark in the distance circling around them and turned his attention back to her.
"Is that a shark?" he asked her in his head.
She cocked her head and watched it swim across their line of vision. "I think it is," she responded.
"Should we be afraid of it?"
"No, it knows better than to come near me. Nothing in the sea will hurt you so long as I am here."
They watched the shark swim away and she turned her attention back to him. "Would you like to come and live here with me forever?" she asked him.
"I can't do that. I'll drown. I'm human and I can't breathe water."
"Oh, I didn't know that. It's too bad; I would so much like to have you with me. Is there some way we could always be together?"
"I'd love to be with you, Dirce. I'll find a way, just give me time."
Then he was back on the blacktop of the exterior part of the pool store. Dirce was still in the yellow bikini in the pool, but their hands no longer touched. He felt a hand on his shoulder pull him back as Dirce swam back to the other side of the pool with a frown on her face.
"That was close," a voice said behind him. It was Dion. "You can thank me later."
What had happened? It reminded him of a dream where he was in a place of perfect joy and happiness with all he ever wanted, only to be woke by the alarm clock because it was time for school. It happened repeatedly. He would wake and look at the ceiling with a sensation of great sadness. The real world had come back and pulled him out of the enchanted place where he'd been.
"Why did you do that?" he said to Dion as he pulled him away. His brother broke off contact with the girl in the pool he'd tried to converse with and walked over to them. Dion had him almost to the door of the pool store.
"Is something wrong?" Doug asked Dion and his brother. In truth, he'd sat there and noticed Dennis drift off into a coma the moment the girl's hand made contact. He'd assumed it was from the shock of contact with a girl. As far as Doug knew, his brother had never been on a single date.
"Let me go back to her!" Dennis was crying out. "You can't take me away from Dirce! I want to go back!" Dion shook his head and took him inside the pool store.
"What is wrong with him?" Doug asked when he caught up to Dion with his brother. Dennis was kneeling in the corner in tears. People in the pool store had stopped to watch him. It was obvious he was in the middle of a breakdown of some kind.
"He attracted the attention of the nymph in the water," Dion explained to Doug. We need to get him out of here before she comes after him again.
Doug gave him a strange look. He walked Dennis outside the mall with the Dion and the other three. Once outside the store they found a bench and sat Dennis down where he continued to sob.
"I've never seen him like this," Doug exclaimed to Dion. "What happened in there?"
"I'll go get him something to drink," Lilly said.
"Take Emily and Sean with you," Dion instructed her. "None of us should be alone with these elementals on the move. Get back here quick if you see the security guards."
"We won't go far," Sean told him as he walked away with the girls.
"I won't move until you get back here," Dion reassured him.
Dennis placed his head in his hands and continued to weep, a little bit more in silence this time. He didn't seem to understand Dion and his brother were with him as they tried to calm him down. Dennis was close to hysterical at this point and Dion couldn't figure out what to do for him. He was told once that encounters with nymphs could do horrible things to the susceptible, but this kid was a wreck.
"So are you going to tell me what happened back there," his brother began, "or do I have to go and ask that girl he was with? He can't go home like this!"
"Sit down," Dion told Doug and seated himself by Dennis. "Your brother has been through something traumatic. I don't know any other way to tell you. He's been touched by a water elemental. You are witnessing the effects of that contact."
Doug sat down on the side of Dion opposite his brother. "Look, I don't need a lot of mumbo jumbo; can you just tell me what happened out there? I was making progress with the other one when I saw you pulling him back from that brunette. Now what happened and tell me in Standard English?"
Dion sighed. "There are things out there which don't fall under rational explanation. I'm in touch with some of them. I'm here because I need to meet the owner of that pool store. She will give me the ability I need to bring them under control, but that is not the reason I need to find her. The swim team out there in the display pools isn't real girls."
"They looked real enough to me."
"Because it's what they want you to think. They're water sprits, nymphs, naiads, and undines, whatever you want to call them. This whole section of the mall is under control of the water element. Okay, I don't expect you to believe me, but it's true."
"Assuming any of what you just told me is true," Doug replied. "How do my brother and her fit figure into all of this."
"He attracted one of them. I don't know why, sometimes they just take an interest in people. She was attracted to him and made contact. When that happens, the person who they like will become obsessed with the elemental. They won't be able to go anywhere or think about anything until they're with the nymph. I tried to get to him before she touched his hand, but I couldn't do it. Now we have to figure out some way to get the glamor she put on him away."
"Is this some sort of curse?" Doug asked. "Can we get a witch to remove it?"
"Wrong sort of affliction. But you have the right idea and you need an elemental worker to take it away from him. I just happen to be one, let me see what I can do."
Dion kneeled down to Dennis level and looked into his eyes when he got him to hold his head up. He saw despair and pain. He saw the face of the nymph that Dennis had attracted. She wasn't about to leave him without a drawn-out fight. This was severe. It meant he would have to go back to the pools in the rear and get the nymph elemental to release him. This was not easy to do and would involve all kinds of promises. Nymphs didn't like to leave someone with they had them under their influence.
"We have a real problem here," Dion said to Doug. Dennis brother had a look of concern on this face. "Did he ever have a girl?"
"What do you mean?"
"Did your brother ever go out with a girl or see one at any time?"
"No, as far as I know the only thing he cares about is his science textbooks and getting into the right college."
"Wonderful," Dion said as she slumped back to the wall. "At least it explains the wall of tears."
"What are you talking about? Tell me what you mean!"
"This is your brother's first real encounter with a woman. He's been keeping himself hidden away so long he doesn't know how to deal with it. He's fallen in love. What's really bad is that he's fallen in love with a water elemental. I don't know if there's anything I can do until Ms. Delphi returns and grants me the power to bind water elementals."
Doug stared at him in disbelief. "Are you trying to tell me my brother is in love with a mermaid?"
"If you want to put a name to it, yes. He's attracted the attention of a water elemental and the only way to free him is make her let him go. If we don't do that, he'll spend the rest of his life trying to get to her."
"This is insane. I can't believe any of this.
"You don't have to believe it. Whether you do or not won't make any difference to your brother and his condition. If I don't get back there and make that nymph take the glamor off him he'll always be this way. And she'll be lovesick too. Elementals who fall for humans don't last long either. She can't survive outside water for long."
"She'll dry up?"
"No, go into some kind of crystalline state until reconstituted. Look, it's hard for me to explain and we don't have time. I need to get back there and deal with this. Or we can wait it and I'll make her release him by binding her. I don't want to do that because when you force an elemental to do something they hate you for it. They might act all obedient, but there is always an aspect of defiance. They'll look for any way they can to mess you up. I already have two sets of elementals who despise me and I don't need more. Someone has turned them to keep me from obtaining full powers."
Dion stood up from the bench when he saw his friends arrive with a bottle of soda. "Just keep him quiet for now and I'll see what I can do. Give me a few minutes to find some way to solve this."
"How is Dennis?" Lilly asked as she looked at his quivering form. "He doesn't seem so good."
"First love and it's with an elemental. I need to make her release him. Just help his brother watch him until I come back."
"Do we need to do anything in the meantime?" Sean asked him.
"Just keep him calm, I have to get back there and get him free from this nymph."
"You will do no such thing!" a voice boomed from the entrance to the pool store.

Chapter 6

Standing barefoot, dripping wet with water pouring over the floor, and still in her yellow bikini, stood Dirce the water elemental. She was alone and her black hair was plastered down her back. Her green eyes were in flames and she stood facing them with her hands on her hips.
Dion didn't know what to say. His experience with water elementals hadn't prepared him for this. He knew they'd be very aggressive toward the person they were attached to, but he didn't think she would come out here right away. It just wasn't in their nature.
"Get away from him!" she shouted across the hall outside the pool store.
Dion's friends, still sitting by Dennis looked to him with incomprehension. What happened to the playful water sprite from a few minutes ago? Had she been replaced by something else? His brother was even more confused. For years, he'd tried to get him to quit grumbling about the girls who wouldn't give him the time of day. Now he had a girl straight out of a TV show concerned about his brother's well-being. Something was very much wrong with this picture.
"Pardon me, missy," he snarled at the girl in the bikini, "but I happen to be his brother. I don't even know who you are."
Sean and Emily exchanged glances. They'd been in close proximity with the air elementals the other day and knew about what each other thought. They'd seen the inside of each other's inner souls and it bound them together. They'd spent the ride home in the back of Dion's van in a state of euphoria because they finally had someone else on the planet who understood them. They had some idea what an encounter with an elemental could do to a person. They weren't surprised about Dennis, but an elemental in the picture. This was something unexpected.
"Dirce!" Dennis said as she sat up. "Please don't leave me. Don't let them take me away!" He stared up at her in total worship.
The water elemental walked up to Doug and glared directly in his face. She had to be six inches shorter and half his weight, but at that minute, she appeared to grow to a height of eight feet. Doug sat back down as their eyes locked. He saw sharks, stingrays and all manner of dangerous creatures under the sea. Had he been three inches from an electric eel, Doug would've felt less fear inside him.
She sat down next to Dennis and placed one wet arm around him. Dennis became calm and serene, as if he'd entered a state of total relaxation. Dirce leaned on him and made a purring sound. People in the mall did their best not to stare at the strange tableaux before them as the little scene played out. His brother, on the other side of her, attempted to say something, but Dirce whirled around to give him another look and he was silent. He promptly shut his mouth and leaned back on the bench.
"Wasn't there another girl in the pool with you?" Doug managed to say.
"Her name is Appias," Dirce snapped back at him. "And she's not the least bit interested in you!"
"Which is a good thing for him," Dion said. He didn't want to disturb the tow. They were close together in each other's arms, even with the water dripping off Dirce. The appearance of the nymph had an effect on Sean and Emily too. They were on the end of the same bench, but hugging.
"Dirce," Dion said to the water elemental, "do you have any idea what you've done to Dennis? You've put a glamor on him and he'll never be happy until you release him. You have to let him go because it's not good for either of you."
"What do you know, Master Dion?" she snarled at him. "You think your ability to manipulate elements entitles you to know what goes on in our world? You think your quest to free your parents overrides everything else?" She returned to Dennis who was now calmed down and in control of himself.
The effect she had on Dennis was uncanny. He was calmed and held onto the wet form next to him. The young man was at peace with himself and the hurried look of someone not sure about their future was gone from his face. Dion faced two couples affected by the power of the elementals. But this time half of one couple was an elemental. He only needed to wait until Salacia Delphi showed up, then he could make Dirce leave Dennis alone.
A very easy solution, but what about Dennis? Would he ever recover from this encounter? And Dirce would hate Dion forever. The rest of her water elemental clan would hate him as well. It would make using them for anything difficult, as they would have to be bound to do any task. They would despise him and jeopardize anything he needed done when the opportunity arose.
"You can't be together for long, Dirce," Dion tried to explain. "He's mortal, you aren't. It's as simple as that. You don't do very well out of the water. You'll need to go back into the pool soon unless you want to feel sick. He can't stay in the water very long. He can't stay underwater at all unless he has breathing equipment."
And then something else struck him. "Dirce," Dion asked. "Have you ever been attracted to a human before?"
"No," she said. The elemental began to sob too, her tears flowing over her face. "This is the first time for me."
It was hard to tell when water elementals cried because they were wet most of the time.
So this was it. Both Dennis and Dirce had fallen in love for the first time and to each other. Dion ran his hand through his hair and tried to figure out what to do about this. Now he was close to the boundaries of his code if he kept Dirce away from Dennis. It would be much worse than the usual binding to keep a nymph away from a human. He wasn't sure either of them would survive the separation. Dirce wasn't mortal, but she could still be hurt.
He tried to think if this had happened in the past. It might have and perhaps the Water Grandmaster would know what to do, but how would it look to her if he couldn't straighten this out? Why should she grant him full powers if he dumped these love seals in her lap? Probably not right away and it might take years for her to make her mind up again. Indeed, his uncle had set all of them up by sending the nymphs into this part of the mall. Small wonder the security guards were absent. They didn't need to be around when Dion had this on his hands.
'It's not like he can take Dirce home and introduce her to mom," Doug grumbled to the side. "She would have a fit if all that water was on the floor in the house."
"Just be quiet," Dion said before Dirce snapped at him again. "There has to be a way to resolve this. Let me think."
Lilly stood next to Dion. She was in awe of his Solomonic wisdom on display. She didn't even speculate on what he would do.
"You can stay with us, Dirce," Dion said to her after he thought for a few minutes. "But you have to get some clothes on. As much as the male half of the shoppers might like it, you can't go around wet and in a bikini."
"I'm glad you approve of me," Dirce said to him coldly. Dion noticed that Sean and Emily were also inseparable. Great, now he had two couples to contend with in order to finish his quest.
"I'll have to talk to the Water Elemental Grandmaster when she arrives," Dion said. "It might cost me ability, but I can't risk the damage it would do to Dennis right now if I send you away."
He took his wallet out and handed Lilly a credit card. "This is in my aunt and Uncle Rich's name. If any of the stores give you a hard time about using it, come and get me. Go back and get her something to drink too."
"Aren't your sisters going to want to know where you are?" he asked Dirce.
"They already do," Dirce said and nodded to the front.
Dion turned to the front of the store and saw a crowd of elemental nymphs gathered at the front. All of them still were wet and in their swimming suits. The nymph who'd been in the same pool walked up to them with Dirce's tracksuit in her hands. Now there would be a lot of water on the floor.
"She'll need this," the nymph said to Dion as she handed him the tracksuit. She went over to Dirce and gave her a hug, then rejoined the others who watched from the entrance to the pool shop.
"What will the rest of you be up to?" Dion asked the one who walked back to the door.
"Waiting," she said. "The owner is on her way back here and she told the clerks to let us continue to use the pools. They don't seem to mind because they've already sold two pools since we've been inside them." She padded back to the others who soon left the entrance of the store and returned to the outside.
None of it changed the problems Dennis and Dirce would face if their relationship went forward. She needed a constant body of water around her and if Dennis planned to get into a major college, he had better major in marine biology. And there was the problem of him aging, but not she. However, he still had to admit, they made a nice couple curled up on the bench with Sean and Emily next to them. Anyone else would think them another high school boy and girlfriend out for a date.
"I need to go home," his brother said. "Dennis, call me from a pay phone if you need someone to pick you up. I'm outta here." He stood up and walked out the corridor that connected to the main concourse.
"So as long as I am here," Dirce said while she put her tracksuit on, "you can at least ask me some questions, because I know that's what you want to do."
"You can start by telling me why you and your sisters are here," he said and sat down on a bench next to theirs to lessen the impact of his words. Dirce slipped her flip-flops on and sat back down next to Dennis.
"We were hired to keep you from the Water Grandmaster. The man who owns the mall specifically wants us to keep you away from her."
"I suspected it. I suppose you can start from the beginning and tell me how he found you?"
"We live in a cave near the coast of Okinawa," she said. "I know you guessed my location from the way I look. We take our form from the humans we're around, so nobody says anything. I've been there with my sisters a long time. I remember when the Emperor of Japan visited us six hundred years ago. I remember when the first people showed up on the island. But this is the first time I have ever been attracted to a boy."
"All these years and it's the first time?" Lilly asked.
"We don't have the same sense of time you do. We think of time on a vast scale and don't get concerned if we're caught in the middle of it. I know humans don't have the same perspective." She hugged Dennis again. "But I hope there might be a way to fix that."
Dion didn't have the guts to tell her he didn't know of any way to extend the human life much beyond a hundred years, but medical science always found ways to make improvements. He let her continue to speak.
"We spend most of our days on the rocks outside the cave singing. It's something we like to do. It passes the time and the fish seem to like it. The dolphins come to hear us too."
"Do you eat?" Emily asked her. She'd wondered about it ever since the ghouls captured her.
"Not us. Some water elementals, as you call us, do, but we don't have to."
"You sing?" Sean asked. "I've heard about mermaids who sing to sailors, is that who you are?"
"Distant cousins. And yes we do. Anyway, last month a boat pulled up right outside our cave and...."
"Could you sing for us?" Sean asked her. "I'd love to hear you."
"Unless your singing could hurt," Emily added. She was thinking of the sirens from the Odyssey.
"If you want me to and no it won't hurt you," Dirce explained and leaned her head back.
It was a voice which emerged from her throat, but one that used no words. Her song flowed through the corridor and caused a few shoppers to turn and listen to her. It was a song of the waves and surf pounding on the beach. Many of the people who stopped to hear had never been near the sea and were mesmerized by what they heard from Dirce. The small girl with the wet, black hair sang about the sun over the ocean and the mists that rose from the sea. She sang about the moonrise over the waves and the sound of the storms. She sang about the fish leaping through the air and the sunrise on the open sea. It was a song of loneliness and yet was all about the splendor of nature. It was a song she'd sung for thousands of years.
When Dirce finished and lowered her head, the entire corridor outside the mall was silent. And then it began. Sporadic claps that echoed throughout the hall until everyone was applauding her. The applause died out and she looked at everyone. Confused, as if she didn't understand what they were doing. A man walked up to Dirce and thanked her for reminding him of his years in the navy. Several families expressed gratitude for her for the performance and wanted to know where they could buy her album. Soon, everyone went back to walking and continued on their way.
"That was so wonderful," Dennis said, his eyes full of joy.
"Do you want me to continue with my story?" she asked Dion.
"Yes." It was easy to see how men were attracted to water nymphs; they were stunning to look at and to listen.
"It was a big boat," she continued, "bigger than we'd seen in over a hundred years. Our island doesn't get a lot of human visitors and we like it that way. It avoids problems with mortals."
"Anyway, the boat came right up to our rock and dropped its anchor. The captain of the boat had an elemental worker on board. He managed to coax us out of the water and back onto the rocks. It was sunset, so we didn't mind talking with him for a while."
"All of you were out on the rocks?" Sean asked her.
"We always to outside in the evening to sing. It's the best way to hear yourself. We go inside if there is someone we don't know. We didn't know these people and almost didn't go outside, but they were insistent. Plus, one of them was an elemental worker, so he caught our attention."
"When we went back to the rock," she continued, "the captain of the boat wanted us to meet with someone he had on board. We don't like to meet with more than one or two humans at a time because they stare at us."
"Why do people stare at you?" Lilly asked. The small woman turned her head to face the human girl.
"You see what I have on now? This is more than I have worn in two hundred years. I didn't mind the bikini because I've had men come by and beg me to wear it so they can take pictures of me in it. They pay me with shiny coins, which we like because they look pretty in the cave. We have many shiny coins in there going back hundreds of years. I've tried to tell them my picture will never come out, but they refuse to listen. Something about the light, our forms don't register on a camera."
"I like the way you look," Dennis said. She gave him a little hug and kissed him on the cheek. "Of course you would, just as I like the way you look," she told him.
"Anyway," Dirce continued, "we made him promise not to bring any more men out on deck. He agreed and went to get the man who wanted to talk to use. When he came out, he introduced himself as Seth Bach."
"My uncle." Dion sat up straight.
"He told us that he wanted us to do a job for him and it involved travel. He said we would be far from the sea, but there would be places we could go to refresh once we were there. We wanted to know why he needed us and not some other group of water elementals. He didn't say, but claimed we were the best he could afford. When we asked him why we should listen to his offer, he claimed there was going to be an oil exploration vessel in the vicinity of our rock in a few days.
Oil and exploration are two of the worst words you can say to a water elemental who lives in the ocean. I've had too many relatives forced to relocate because someone wanted to pump the black stuff out of where they lived. We can't stand it when the men and their big machines start to work. We have to go because of the noise and smells. He promised to send the machines away if we would come and do a job for him. And he promised to bring us jewels, which we like to put in our caves too. It looks nice next to the shiny coins.
He told us he needed us to keep someone away from one of the water elemental grandmasters. He promised us whatever we would need to stay out of water for a long period of time. He even gave us some pretty stones to help us decide.
So we voted. In the end, we decided to take him up on his offer and go along for the job. He had some kind of tank on the ship to transport us, so it worked out without much trouble."
There was only one thing which bothered us: he was some kind of elemental worker himself, we couldn't tell which kind. Usually it's easy to do that, we can feel it. He couldn't bind us or force us if we didn't want him to do it, but there was something odd about the way he felt. As if he'd earned something he wasn't supposed to have."
"That would describe my uncle," Dion said. The six of them were sitting on the bench, with Lilly leaning on him. What Dirce had was contagious.
"He put us into some other kind of water tank when the boat docked on the shore," she continued. "It was nice enough, just a bit restraining. He flew us into some special place where he told us what our cover was supposed to be and issued us the swimsuits and tracksuits. We didn't like wearing them, but understood it was part of the job he wanted us to do. Today a bus brought us to this place and we've followed the script to the letter.
All up to where I noticed Dennis. Now I don't know what will happen next because we were supposed to keep you away from the Grandmaster and now you know about everything. I don't want to go back, because I would leave him behind." She looked with her sea green eyes into that of Dennis. "Is there any way he could come with us if we go back?'
"Dirce," Dion spoke softly. "This is difficult to say, but Dennis has to eat, you don't. It would be easier to keep you here. I don't know how it can be done, but if there is a method to do it, I'll find the way."
"I really don't want to leave my sisters behind," Dirce said as she looked at the door to the pool store. "I wish there was some way we could all stay here. I could convince them to stay if there was as quiet lake or pond somewhere."
Dion sighed. With all the development in the area, one of those would be hard to find. And Dennis would have to see her every day or he would have problems. It was one of the reasons elementals and humans didn't mix very well.
Dirce stood up, still holding onto Dennis's hand. "I'm going back there and talk with them. I'll make them understand everything is changed and I want to stay here."
"Why don't you let me do that?" Dion told her. "Look, I'm an elemental worker with all four abilities. I only have full power in earth and air, but I hope to have the third when the storeowner shows up today. Give me the chance to talk to them and I'm sure it can all be resolved." He hadn't liked the sneer on the elemental who'd walked back through the door. At least the water on the floor was gone, mopped up by a grumbling ghoul cleaner.
"I'll do it!" Dennis said as she stood next to Dirce. "Let me go back there and tell them to let her be here and not cause any problems."
"Calm down," Dion told him. "You're new to all this and excited. I've seen this happen before. You'll be the jarhead who runs across a field of grenades just to impress someone. Let me handle this, I've had the experience."
"I'll go." It was Sean, also standing up. "You're right. He's new and I've already been zapped by elementals. They won't have the same effect on me they would on him."
Dion rubbed the back of his head. What had he walked into? Right now, he had an uncle who wanted to eliminate him, a Water Elemental Grandmaster he needed to meet, two lovesick guys, three lovesick girls if you counted Lilly and multiple swimming pools full of water elementals. And he still had to find a way to free his parents from the clock tower. Now he had two different guys who didn't have a clue about how to negotiate with elementals who wanted to play heroes.
"You can both go back there with me," Dion told them. "But we'll do this my way. You don't talk to any of them unless I say so. Is that understood?"
Both of them nodded their heads.
"How long do you think this will take?" Lilly asked him.
"Longer that it would if I could go back there alone. But they want to go along for the ride, so I'm not going to stop them. Just stay put and keep the rest of the girls calm until I get back. Try to find out more about Dirce, this is new to me, an elemental who wants to be with a human out of their environment."
Dion turned back to Sean and Dennis. "Okay, let's go, and remember, let me do the talking."
They vanished through the door of the pool store.
Dirce sat back down on the bench and folded her legs under her. She watched the flow of traffic for a while down the hall. Eventually she turned to Lilly who sat next to her.
"They all move this way?" she asked her.
"What do you mean?" Lilly asked. Dirce's green eyes focused on several women and men together as they walked.
"The people. I've never seen so many in one place at a time. They move different. Can't they move up and down or just on one plane? It seems such a crowded way to get around."
"We're stuck on the ground," Lilly said. "Unless you have a flying machine. No floating in thin air."
"I guess I'll have to get used to it," Dirce sighed, playing with her hair. "They don' even sing?"
"Some of us do. Not like you sing, but for different reasons."
Lilly and Emily looked at Dirce and wondered how she would fit into human society. The small woman in a tracksuit got lucks of approval from the men in the hall. She didn't even realize what they did and smiled back each time. Eventually, one of them would come over and try to engage her in a conversation. It was inevitable.

Chapter 7

Dion and his two companions emerged to the rear display area of the pool store to find the elementals out on the concrete sunning themselves. The sun wasn't too strong this time of the year, but they didn't need an excuse to enjoy its warmth. Somehow, all eleven of the remaining nymphs had found towels from the pool store. They were stretched out in a row.
A long row of young women in their bikinis and swimsuits was bound to attract attention. As the display area adjoined a parking lot, there were plenty of cars that slowed down as they passed the gate. The trio watched as one car almost rear-ended the one in front as it slowed down to admire the line of nymphs behind the fence.
The two sales clerks in the back of the lot where the display pools were situated continued to stare in wonder at the sight before them.
"We really should tell them to move," one said.
"You first," the other replied. "This has to be an idea from the boss. I think that family over by the new model wants to talk to you about it."
"I'll let you have that sale this time. Oh darn, there's another customer who needs help."
A little frustrated, both of them wandered off to sell pools.
"So where did you get the towels?" Dion asked the nymph called Appias as she lay in the sun. Her blond hair was dry and flowed with grace in the slight breeze that played across the back section of the pool store. Dion turned to watch a small air sylph glide over the parking lot and catch a draft as it sailed into the sky.
Right now Dion wished he were that air sylph element. It didn't have one percent of his issues.
"The very nice men brought them to us," she said. "I told them we needed some way to lie on this hard ground and not get dirty. They ran and got towels for us."
Dion watched Sean and Dennis turn their heads and admire the row before them. Every single one of the girls possessed perfect skin, hair and teeth. Not a single one was made-up, but they didn't have to be. These water elementals could adapt their form to whatever was the most useful. He had no idea if they'd kept this form for the past twenty years or twenty minutes. Most of them stuck with the same exterior when it worked out.
"I don't believe any of us have been introduced," he said to the row as they leaned back and caught some of the warming rays of the sun. "I'm Dion; these are my friends Sean and Dennis."
"We are very pleased to meet you," she said, "I'm known as Appias, next to me is Aginappe, followed by Myrtoessa, Sithndes, Bolbe, Limnae, Pallas, Tritonis, Arethusa, Castilia, Cynae, and Ismene. Of course, I see you already know Dirce."
"Well met," Dion said. "And I understand you were hired to keep me from reaching Salacia Delphi who owns this store."
Appias turned to Aginappe and whispered something. They stayed in conversation for a few minutes until the three guys standing over them began to fidget. By now, they'd noticed each wore a very brief bikini of the same cut. Each one was colored fluorescent pink for maximum effect.
"They changed their suits," Sean said to Dion, as he glanced back to make sure Emily wasn't glaring at him from the window.
"They're elementals," Dion explained. "They can alter their forms if they want to do so."
"Which means..." Dennis said as she looked too at the window. No sign of Dirce. "They could just get rid--"
"Calm down, tiger. They're not human and spend most of their time around sea animals. The last thing you want to do is anger them and have the entire group turn into giant starfishes."
Appias turned her blond head back to Dion. "We were hired and given pretty stones. Some of us think we're not being fully compensated for the work he wants us to do. He didn't tell us exactly why he wanted you blocked. Besides, the water in those pools is foul. It smells like a chemical freighter. It would take days for it to get acceptable to us. Then it would get stagnant and smell worse in a few days."
"So what you're telling me," Dion said, "is that you're open to a counter-offer."

Back on the other side of the pool store, Emily and Lilly were busy with Dirce. She needed to be brought up to speed about humanity and the culture where she was right now. Dirce had little contact with humans in hundreds of years. The nymphs didn't need to interact with them, as they preferred to stay away from humans, who were annoying, and fouled up the ocean. Every year brought more of them around her and her sisters, but they felt the ocean was big and there were plenty of places to move. The only thing they liked were the trinkets the human sometimes tossed away, which they used to decorate their cave. They liked coins the best as they could be cleaned and stuck to the walls with the polished stones they would find every now and then in sunken ships.
"We like the clear ones the best," Dirce told her. "Sometimes we find them in rings. Right now, we have one entire wall lined with the clear ones. When the sun comes up, it makes them shine. We like to watch the patterns the sun makes on the opposite wall."
"Diamonds." Lilly said. "You have an entire wall covered with diamonds?"
"Is there something wrong with that?"
"No, just make sure you or your sisters never let anyone know about it. Those stones are expensive and people would try to get them."
Emily decided after she watched the men bump into each other as they went past Dirce there had to be another reason for their allure. Dirce fit the average ideal for an attractive young girl, but styles and tastes did vary over the years. Would she be shorter if this took place fifty years ago? Somehow, these elemental knew how to bring out the desire in men.
"Anyway," Dirce continued. "didn't you tell me people keep rocks as pets around here?"
"Different kind of rock. These are just rocks people find on the ground."
"So why would the clear ones have more value?"
Lilly started to explain the joke to her and decided it would be lost on Dirce. It was lost on most people and she just didn't want to explain the concept of satire to the elemental nymph. It was difficult enough to make her understand why she needed to cover up at all times. If she planned to stay around Dennis long-term, there were many hurdles she would need to pass over.

"So, why should we help you instead of your uncle?" Appias said to Dion. "We don't see much reason to do it. What can you give us that your uncle can't? I don't see you with vast wealth and resources. After all, isn't your uncle an elemental worker too?"
"He's the wrong kind of elemental worker. He went down the wrong path to earn his ability. He may have the fifth elemental power, but he never learned the ones before it."
"So why should we care?"
"He'll find a way to get out of any promise he makes. You go down the path he did and you think you're a divine being without any responsibilities. Nothing of what he tells you is true. What did he tell you about me?"
"He said you would have power over us and every other water elemental on the planet," Aginappe said. She was a little bit taller than her sister was and colored a deep black shade of coal. Years ago, Aginappe had found an African sailor stranded on a beach and fell in love with him. She matched his image of the perfect woman and decided to keep it forever after he died from malnutrition.
"Yes, I will be able to bind elementals," Dion told her. "But it takes a tremendous amount of energy and concentration to do it just once. I have no interest in ruling over the sea or any other place where water elementals thrive."
This provoked another long conversation as the rest of the elementals whispered to each other and sent messages down the line. After five minutes, they seemed to reach a decision. Meanwhile, a small crowd built up at the other side of the fence, not helped by the slow movements of cars and trucks who tried to get a close look at the young women relaxing in their bikinis as the sun reached its apex. By now, the two sales clerks were busy with all the customers who'd decided to come into the exterior of the pool store and look at the models on display. They were forced to pull extra help from the other side of the store.
"We're willing to listen to anything you can offer," Appias told him. "But you better make the offer quick because we were supposed to have a meeting with your uncle in two hours. He'll want to know what progress we have made."
Dion pulled his two friends back away from the elementals for a conference. "I think I know a way to get them on our side. Normally, I wouldn't try what I'm about to do, but I think the situation warrants it."
"Can you share it with us?" Dennis asked. He kept glancing in the direction of the nymphs.
"No, because if it doesn't work out, I'll need to come up with another plan. No matter, give me an hour or so and you'll know what it is. Sean, stay out here and keep the girls in sight. I know that won't be too hard. I might send Emily out here to help you."
"Thanks," Sean grumbled.
"You need to think long term," he told him. "Emily is the future. These nymphs aren't." He turned and looked at Dennis. "Not for you either. You already have one."
"Did I say anything?" Dennis asked.
"No, but I could tell you were thinking it. You have the bigger task. Dirce will need time to learn how to be around people. I don't envy your challenge, but fate was set when you two made contact. Yes, I could eventually get her to leave you, but the best thing is to learn to live with her. Trust me, someday you'll thank me."
Dion walked back over to the elementals. "I need to go make a phone call. I'm going to leave one of my friends out here to watch after you in case you need anything. Don't get too close; he has a girlfriend on the other side of the store. She's with your sister, Dirce."
"We're fine right now," the nymph told him. "We like the attention. Can we ask any of these nice men to get us anything?"
"No. Talk to Sean if you need anything." He turned and walked back inside the pool store with Dennis.

Dirce was in a deep conversation with Lilly and Emily when they emerged. Dion and Dennis walked over to them and sat down. The hall seemed to have more people in it that when he left.
"I need to go to a pay phone and make a call," Dion told his friends. "Sean is out there taking care of the other nymphs." He saw Emily's eyes flare. "Don't worry, he's just there to keep the men away from them and get them whatever they need."
"I thought you said they were elementals and didn't have to worry about what humans could do to them," Emily said.
"They can't be harmed by ordinary humans. But they still like the attention they get from them. I'm a little worried about what might happen if the wrong person attracts too much attention from a nymph."
"Do you have a problem with me?" Dirce demanded. She started to get up off the bench.
"No, I don't. Dennis is very lucky you were attracted to him. It might not seem so right away, because you're both in unfamiliar territory, but in the end, he'll be better off. The same can be said for Sean and Emily, for different reasons. I need your sister's help against my uncle and I know only one way to do it. So please, excuse me." Dion turned and walked down the corridor.
"Does he always talk so cryptically?" Dirce asked the others. "I didn't understand a bit of what he said."
"Dion tries to explain himself the best way he knows how," Lilly said. "Sometimes he doesn't have enough time to get it across. If he has a plan in mind, it will turn out all right. You just have to give him a chance. I've seen him turn a whirlwind around, so I think he knows what he's doing."
"If you say so," Dirce said and slid up to Dennis. "I missed you."
"I missed you too." And he had. Separation from Dirce for even a few minutes was difficult. He could see Lilly as she watched Dion's form move away. Even Emily looked forlorn as she stared at the door to the pool store.
"Is there a lake near your house?" Dirce asked Dennis. "I'll need to get in the water by the end of the day."
"There might be a pond. I'm not sure about a whole lake."
"Does it have a cave at or below the water line?"
"I don't think so. Wait... there's a creek, which runs past the backyard. I know there was an old bridge over it. They replaced the creek with a corrugated pipe. Would that work?"
Dirce starred at him for a few moments. "I guess," she sighed. "I'll have to work with what I have. Does it get very many people back there? I don't like to be disturbed unless they bring offerings."
"Offerings?"
"Pretty stones, shiny coins. We like those. People want us to make it rain. We can't do that, but sometimes we talk to the air sylphs who can."

Dion made his way to the bank of payphones that were toward the other side of this section in the mall. He didn't need the map to find them. Each section of the mall had an entire side room where people could make calls from the bulky black phones which were attached to the wall. Usually they were located next to the bathroom as the mall wanted to keep the idle noise limited to one part of the shopping center.
Of course, all four phones were in use. There wasn't anything else he could do but look at his wristwatch and wait. He glanced around and looked for any security guards. None. Karanzen kept them back today. Once they were inside the mall, there wasn't a whole lot he could do so long as Dion and his friends didn't cause a problem.
Dion expected Edward to show up. The little Englishman seemed to know just when he was needed. But, so far, he'd made only one appearance. Perhaps he'd decided to stay put for the time being. Edward did say he only was allowed so much time. It could be he was in the process of conserving as much of it as he could.

"You need anything to drink?" Sean asked the girls who were lying under the sun. It wasn't too hot outside, but the sun was still sending waves of light to the ground and it heated up.
"No," one of the nymphs told him. "We don't usually need to since we spend most of time in water. Don't need to eat either, in case you weren't told."
All of a sudden, they stood up and stretched, which caused more cars to slow down in the parking lot. Sean was certain he saw a man walk into the side of a building as he turned to watch the girls. Eventually, someone would say something about the girls in the pool store outside the display. He could see a number of complaints from their appearance. Not that it bothered the trucks that detoured across the lot to get a better view.
"You can collect the towels," another one said to him. "The men who brought them to us took the towels out of the cabinet over there." She pointed in the direction a small locker in the corner of the display.
The nymphs formed a single line, which branched off as they went back into the pools on display. In minutes, they were swimming around the display units and splashing in the water.
"Clean water," he heard one say to another. "Hate the chemical smell, and there's no fish."
"Don't think the fish would last very long in it," another one said.











One of the sales clerks stopped his presentation to a prospective customer as two of the elementals walked up the portable ladder and dove into the pool. The man who was interested in it stopped his conversation to watch them surface and swim to the side of the pool.
"Do they come with the pool?" he asked.
The woman who had been in a deep conversation on the phone hung it up and walked away.
Relieved, Dion went to the pay phone and fished through his pockets. Finding some change, he fed a few dimes into the phone's slot, just in case. When he heard a dial tone, Dion tried to remember the numbers he needed. It came to him and his finger spun them. He waited. The phone on the other side began to ring. He was about to hang up the phone when someone picked it up on the seventh ring.

Chapter 8

"Hello?" a voice said. "Mustalow residence."
"Mike?" Dion spoke into the phone. "This is Dion. Were you and them still planning on going to the mall today?"
"Of course, we've planned this for weeks. Why?"
"I'm over in the blue section. When did you plan to leave?"
"About five minutes. I have to pick half of the club up, there's another car driven by James and he's supposed to meet us out in the lot."
"Do you think the entire group could meet me by the phones in the blue section when you get here? I can't imagine it taking you any longer than a half hour."
"Sure. What's up? Something you want to do?"
"No, something all of you need to see. Trust me on this one."
"Okay, you've never let me down yet. See you later."
The phone connection ceased and Dion returned the phone to the cradle and moved out of the way so the next person could use it. He walked over to the bench next to the phones and sat down. It shouldn't be long. He wasn't sure this was the best course of action, but he didn't have another plan. Besides, the club really needed what he had in mind.

"And all you do all day long is sun yourself on the rocks?" Emily asked Dirce. "That's it?"
"Why would I want to do anything else?" she asked her. "We did it for thousands of years. Until the big ships made an appearance, there was nothing to bother us. Every now and then, a human appears to ask for a favor or advice and it breaks up a dull year. We have a whole different sense of time, I try to tell you."
"Why would you need a cave or culvert?" Dennis asked the small green-eyed nymph who was sitting in his lap with her arm around his neck. The attention was wonderful, but they still got disapproving looks from some of the shoppers.
"It's where I'll need to live. At night, we sleep too. I hope my sisters will come with me. Fresh water is different from seawater. The fish are different too. I'm looking forward to a change."

Dion waited patiently by the phone banks. He knew it would take a little time for his friends to arrive, but there was nothing else he could do. He felt the best course of action was to wait for them to make appearance, and then head back to the pool store. It wouldn't take too long.
He looked at his wristwatch. It wouldn't be long before Salacia Delphi arrived and decided whether or not to grant him full elemental powers. He needed it badly to advance to the next one, the element of fire. After that, it would be the fifth element, the one his uncle held. And then he might be able to free his parents.
He leaned back on the bench and waited.
"How many have you sold today?" the first clerk asked as both of them watched what they thought were young girls frolic in the display pools. Why did they all have the same kind of swimsuit on right now? Didn't they come into the display area in different suits?
"I've written up three contracts already. You?" the second sales clerk thought the same thing and looked over into the corner where the swim team's tracksuits were stored. He didn't see any extra suits over there. "I think the kids from the front room wrote two more between them. That's a record for today."
"Has to be the boss' doing. Only she would come up with something as outrageous as having a girls' swim team come into the store to boost sales."
"Seems to be working. Oh, someone wants to buy a pool. I'm off."

Sean made himself helpful, but there wasn't much these young women needed. They continued to play in the water and occasionally sit on the decks built next to the display pools. He turned to the door back into the pool store and wondered where Emily was and what she was up to at the moment. He missed her and they had only been separated an hour or so. Last night was horrible. He woke up in the morning and needed to see her right away. Was this the effect of being in close proximity to the elementals? He wondered if it would go away with time.
A crowd of high school seniors walking down the mall alerted Dion his friends had arrived. He stood up, walked up to Mike, and shook his hand. He looked down the row and saw the second wave, commanded by James, coming up in the rear. The first group had five young men and the second six, which made for a total of eleven, a perfect number for the job. All he had to do was take them back to the pool store and hope for the best. Beyond today, there was nothing guaranteed and he had no way of knowing whether or not his plan would work, but at least it was a plan.

"Why are your fingernails colored?" Dirce asked Emily as she sat there with her. "I've never seen them done that way."
"It's called fingernail polish," Emily explained, holding her hand up so the nymph could see her nails. "A lot of girls and older women paint their nails to make them look nice."
"But not everyone does it?" Dirce asked again. She examined Emily's nails up close and tried to figure out what made them different.
"Not everyone. It takes a long time to have it done. You probably don't need to do it."
They turned to see Dion walk down the corridor to them with a group of guys in the rear. Emily and Lilly recognized some of them and couldn't figure out what they had in common other than glasses and a lack of style. Half of them had clothes that didn't match and the others needed to get new shoes. It wasn't a lack of money. They knew some of the boys. These guys with Dion didn't care much how they looked and it wasn't a statement, just a lack of interest.
"Everything okay back in the display area?" Dion asked the group in front of him.
"We haven't heard anything bad," Dennis told him. "As a matter of fact, we haven't heard much of anything at all. I don't think Sean has been back here once to get us."
Dion looked forward to the glass door to the pool store. He looked up to the display sign over the entrance. The sun sent warm light in through the windows of the mall and he could feel the warmth of the day. Soon the mall would have to use its air conditioning system to cool the place down, but he hadn't heard it kick on just yet. They were still in the early months of spring, but the weather was unusually warm.
"Ok, let's go," he told the group. "They're all in the back." He turned to Emily. "I'll send Sean back to you when we go out there. I have no idea how long this will take, but Salacia Delphi is supposed to be here soon enough. Just wait for me to come out when I'm done." The group continued on through the door and soon they had left the sight of those still on the bench.
"What do you think he has in mind?" Emily asked. "I can't figure it out."
"I think I know," Lilly replied as she looked at the serene form of Dennis and Dirce. "I don't want to say anything just yet because it might mess everything up. And, who knows, maybe he has something in mind I would never understand. Dion doesn't discuss his plans with me."
The water nymphs were relaxed in the pools. They stood in the water and hummed a group song, which made all the prospective buyers stop their questions and turn to the source of the music. It was a clear and beautiful sound, harmonious, but in a tune older than human civilization. The harmony drifted over the parking lot and into the countryside causing the birds to go silent. It was the sound of the lost oceans and forbidden seas set to a tune without words.
The elemental nymphs looked at each other from the display pools and broke out in laughter.
The door to the pool store opened. Dion strolled in with a group of young men behind him. They entered the display area and stopped. Before the men sat a group of display models swimming pools with attractive young women it them. They wore matched red bikinis. The two groups starred at each other and tried to figure out what each was doing there outside the pool store.
"Gentlemen," Dion said to his group. "I would like you to meet the swim team. Ladies, I present to you our high school chess club." He turned to Sean who stood at the edge of the display. "You can go back inside, I'll handle it from here on out. Emily is getting lonely in there."
Sean walked past Dion, a little confused as to what he had planned, but anxious to return to Emily. He walked over to the two sales clerks who were in the process of going over a warranty with a customer. The crowd had died down and they'd been able to send their extra clerks back into the main store. The owner was supposed to arrive shortly and they were thrilled so many pools were ordered. It was a record they had never expected to see.
"I hate to interrupt your work," he said, "but could you do me a favor and take this inside the store for the next few minutes? I need to take care of something and I would appreciate your help. Don't worry, you'll be able to see everything going on here from the window. One other thing, I'm supposed to meet Ms. Delphi when she arrives."
The two clerks looked at each other and then the customer. "Okay, we're finishing something up, so I don't see a problem. Just don't be too long out here." The trio walked back into the pool store. The door closer made a swoosh when it shut.
Sean turned back to the display pools to see the swim team elementals stepping out of them. They climbed out of by way of the portable ladders installed to make entrance and exit easy. There were multiple sounds of feet plopping on the ground and water dripping off nymph bodies as they looked over the young men presented for their approval. It was quiet outside in the exhibit area with the only sound that of the pool filtration systems humming away. On most days soft music played from the speakers aimed at the pools, but not today.
"I should ask you why we were brought back here," Mike said, "but I really don't care. And thanks for introducing us to them."
"Didn't you say that no one had a date for the prom?" Dion asked his friend. "I seem to recall you told me at lunch last week that the guys in your chess club were all sad because no girls joined this year. I recall the week before that when you mentioned that not one of them had a girlfriend."
"Yes, I think I did." He continued to watch the swim team put on their tracksuits.
"I count eleven eligible women," Dion said to him. "I also count eleven members of the chess club here, including you. I think the problem will resolve itself."
Appias walked up to the group and looked each one over carefully. Finally, she came up to Mike and looked him deeply in the eyes. "Hello, my name is Appias. I like you."
Mike, who had enough trouble finding a girl who would even admit he existed, turned and looked at Dion. "I think you're supposed to tell her you like her too," Dion told him.
Mike gulped and looked at Appias. Her eyes were the color of water on a lost bay no one had ever seen that was so clear the sand was visible at the bottom. "I'm Mike," he said to her. "I like you too."
"Would you like to go for a walk?" she asked him. "I haven't seen much of this mall." She reached down and took his hand.
"Sure, let's go for a walk." He turned and walked through the door to the pool store with her as she placed one arm around him.
Dion turned and looked at the rest of the group. Right now, chess was not on their mind for the first time in many years. It was a knight's gambit of the most desperate sort, but all his pawns where meeting their opposite number from the other side of the board and the game was in progress. All he had to do was make sure nothing went out of control. It didn't seem to be a problem right now. But it could always change.
The second of the nymphs went up to James and looked him over. James was not a very large guy, only about five-two in height. The girl who approached him was about two inches shorter and had long brown hair which flowed down her back. Dion still couldn't understand how they dried their hair so quickly, but it seemed to be one of those things which elementals had no trouble and could do when they needed to do so.
"Hello," he said to her. "I'm James, what's your name?"
"Cynae," she said, "I like you."
"You seem pretty cool. Do you want to go hang out?"
Cynae gave him a smile as big as the Sargasso Sea. "I'd love to do that. Can you show me the mall too?"
"Let's go," he said, took her hand and led the nymph through the store and into the mall.
"Gentlemen," Dion said to the rest of the crowd that entered the exhibit area with him. "These ladies are moving into the area this week." He turned to the nymphs. "You are planning to live around here long term, aren't you?"
They collectively nodded.
"Good. I just wanted you to know, because they are new to the area and will need dates for the prom. Also, I'm sure they would like one of you fine young men to tell them about our blessed little town since none of them are from around here."
Dion stood there and watched the nymphs approach each of the guys who came into the store with him. The chess club couldn't believe its eyes as the girls walked around and looked each of them over until they found the one whom they favored. Once again, they would approach their choice, inform him they liked him and then wonder off into the lobby of the mall. The guys didn't have to do a thing but stand there and wait. It was the complete opposite of how it usually took place.
Dion decided that the process would handle itself and he didn't need to be around any longer. What would happen tomorrow was a different matter entirely. Each of these guys would be madly in love with their designated nymph in a few minutes. How they decided to deal with it was going to be their choice. Before the day was over, he needed to meet with the nymphs and decide where to put them. There were a few creeks around here that were so remote even the fishermen didn't like to use them. It would be the best place for the elementals. If nothing else, there were some private lakes and fishing ponds he knew about.
Dion walked back into the store and told the two clerks he was done outside. He knew the owner would be here soon enough. The threat the nymphs would have presented to him was over for the time being, but there was the issue of what to do about his friends who would be swooning over their collective girlfriends in a few days. He needed to figure out some way the nymphs could visit the guys they had chosen without much trouble.
Lilly and the rest of his friends were still sitting on the bench when he emerged from the store. He went over and sat beside her, the rest of the group starring at him in confusion.
"I just saw two guys from that group you brought in here leave," Lilly said to him. "Each with one of the nymph elementals. What did you do in there to cause this to happen?"
"Naiads," Dirce said, still cuddled up to Dennis. "It's the term we use for ourselves."
"Okay then, I just saw two of your sister Naiads walk out of the pool store hand-in-hand with two of the guys Dion took back there." She looked back at Dion. "What did you do?"
"I introduced them. I figured if it worked so well for Dennis, it might work out just as well for a group of guys I knew that had no luck with the girls in the school. Plenty of guys who just sit around mopping over their lack of love. Time to cure the problem."
"What's going to happen when they find out they're not human?" Emily asked.
Dion turned to Dennis. "You figured it out right away, didn't you?"
"Yes. When you have a vision of swimming with her at the bottom of the sea, you realize that you're in a very different place."
"And it's not a problem, is it? I mean, you do understand that, for all practical purposes, she'll never age, don't you?"
Dirce leaned onto Dennis chest and looked up at him with her sea green eyes. "No, I can't say that it is a problem right now."
Dion turned back to Emily. "There is your answer."
"You're still going to have a problem with finding a place for them all," Lilly said. "Where are you going to find a body of water around here large enough for them all? Plus, how are they going to be able to see these guys every day? Don't they get addicted to each other or something?"
"They are bonded to each other," Dion said. "The elemental..." He noticed a glare from Dirce. "Ahem, I mean Naiad, has made the choice and the guy accepted her. So yes, they'll need each other every day. But I'm sure we can find some way to get the entire clan into school in these last few months."
The moment he quit speaking another group of Naiads and chess club guys walked out of the store and headed into the mall. This time one of the guys stopped to thank him.
He walked over to Dion and pumped his hand. "Dion," he said. "I don't know how to thank you. I've never been so happy in all my life. She wants to see the hobby shop on the other side of the mall, can you believe it? Oh, by the way, this is Arethusa." He was standing with a black-haired girl who was on the tall side with curly hair. Her eyes were a deep purple.
"We've met," Dion laughed.
"And you want to know what the best part of it is?"
"What?"
"She wants to play chess. She claims she played a few games years ago, and would like to take it back up again. Can you believe it?"
"I had a shipwrecked sailor show me how," Arethusa explained. "A few of us have played it over the years when we get bored. We used shells and stones for the pieces."

Chapter 9

The bus let Gabriel off in front of the mall. He paid the driver, stepped outside it to look at the magnificent glass aviary over the front, and took a deep breath. This place was impressive. Whoever built it had sunk a lot of cash into the project just to keep it going.
He was told years ago that it would never be finished when the local politicians tried to hold the project up. There were all kinds of ways they could do it when the right pressure was applied.
He dusted off his sea jacket and looked around at the entrance. Definitely an improvement over the malls and shopping centers on the coast. Whoever designed this one had a specific image in their head and wanted to see it realized before them. Gabriel stood there and watched families enter and exit through the doors. Although the location of the mall wasn't the best, it was built near an interstate, which should take care of the need for traffic to get to and from it.
He wondered if anyone suspected the real reason for the mall. How many of these shoppers knew it was built over the abyss. There were enough sensitive people around here; surely, some of them would pick up the emanations from what lay beneath. He didn't notice anyone show signs of the second sight as they left the mall, but it was still early in the day for the effects to be obvious. Give the right person a few hours in this mall and they would start to have all kinds of personal issues. In fact, the mall was built over the larges ethereal power source in this world. But none of the shoppers appeared to know it. It was probably best they didn't.
He pushed the second set of glass doors open and walked inside. Good, the environment was carefully controlled. He turned and saw a ghoul cleaner in a hurry to push the trash out the door. The cleaner seemed to be anxious to get out of the mall, but he was on the wrong side, so it only made sense. Gabriel looked up and saw some of the air sylphs skating around near the supports of the structure. They weren't supposed to be on this side either, but at least the ghouls had a legitimate reason to be here. As he watched the doors open, one of the air elementals shot out both glass doors and was soon outside.
He continued to walk through the main concourse of the mall. Everything was tinted a nice blue in this section. He stopped and looked at one of the reflecting pools toward the entrance and wondered where the water elementals were inside it. As he waited, the water stirred and a small column of water rose up and then back down again. There it was, one of the smaller ones. Since this place was dedicated to them, they had to be here. It wouldn't make sense for the mall to have this section and not to have any elementals present. Again, he wondered how many people could see them. It wasn't a gift many people inherited, but the average person could learn to recognize them with some basic training. It wasn't that hard.
He thought about removing his cap, but it didn't seem to make a difference. People no longer took their hats off when they walked indoors these days. As a matter of fact, few people wore hats anymore. He could remember when a person of respect wouldn't step outside without a hat. Now, you hardly saw anyone who wore them.
He stopped by a place which sold fish in aquariums supplies and looked into the windows. They had a nice selection of colorful tropical fish, but what else did they have in there? Gabriel knew that not every part of this mall was open to the public. There were stores for all kinds of supernaturals in the mall. Stores which appeared to be closed from the front, but which had another entrance in the back. Some of these stores had no doors. He wondered how the mall builder had gotten that one through the building code.
It had been a long trip from Atlantic City. Gabriel couldn't remember the last time he was this far inland. It had to be years ago. He didn't like to be too far from the sea or any bodies of water. At least there were some creeks and streams near-by. They couldn't have built the mall inside a desert, as the lack of water would have made the construction impossible. But he would have preferred a shorter trip. It might've helped if he had a driver's license. And no way was he going to risk a flight to the location. He wasn't sure if the people behind the mall knew about him, but he also had no clue about the extent of their powers. It would be too easy for them to bring down an air flight.
Just last week he'd been on his boat in the Atlantic. The water was rough that day, but he didn't mind. He took a group of fishermen out to an isolated spot and let them cast their lines. They hadn't cost much and he speculated the real reason they were out there was to talk about sports and drink. He took a lot of them out that way. Guys with impressive fishing tackle who had no clue how to use it. He spent half of the trip showing the best way to catch. It wasn't what he was paid to do, but there was no reason to just leave them to their own devices.
So here he was, just about, as far as you could get from an ocean. It was a strange place for an old sea dog to find himself.
He was about to ask someone where he could find the pool store when he noticed the girl in the tracksuit walking with the slightly overweight young man in his direction. He stopped and looked at the swim team logo on her top as they went past. He couldn't tell what their conversation was about, but it had something to do with the game of chess. This struck him as odd, so he watched them continue on their way down the concourse. Why would two young people of such dissimilar appearances be walking together unless there was some other reason? He waited for them to pass and thought about following them to see where they went. If she had a swim team logo on her, it was likely the young lady would know something about the pool store he needed to find.
Gabriel watched where they headed and was ready to turn directions when he saw a similar couple who walked in his direction. He put his hands in the pockets of his black jacket and pretended to look at a display of newspapers on a stand. This time the girl who wore the tracksuit was a few inches shorter than the guy, but she was still as beautiful as the last one. The guy with her, on the other hand, had last year's outfit on and thick glasses. She seemed as enamored of him as he was of her. He couldn't tell what they were talking about just now.
He was ready to put it off as coincidence, when a third couple walked in his direction. This girl possessed hair so blond he thought it might be white. He watched them pass him by. This time he was able to listen in and hear what they were talking about. It sounded like the upcoming prom. They were asking each other questions about their backgrounds, so they couldn't have been in any kind of relation very long. He looked back the way they'd come. Each couple had walked from the same direction. Perhaps he should head in that location.
"You sing on that rock every night?" he heard the young man ask the blond as the moved away from him.
And then it hit him: the girls were all water elementals. If these boys, hardly a one of them who looked like the type who would normally be with such a girl, were with them, it meant the water nymphs and had placed a glamor on them. What the heck was going on in this mall? He needed to find the pool store as fast as he could.
Gabriel turned and headed in the general direction the couples had originated. When he was halfway down the concourse, he noticed two more mismatched pairs. These had walked out into the main mall from a side hall and he decided to see what was there. Gabriel pulled his cap down over his grey hair and made a slight turn, his steps silent, as they were lost in the sounds of the other shoppers.
At the far end of the hall was the pool store, his destination. But coming in his direction were three more couples, which consisted of very happy young men, paired with very beautiful water elementals. They were of different racial features, but he knew the nymphs took on the form of the sailors they encountered over the years. Did any of these boys have any idea what they were in love with? He needed to find out. It had to have something with the pool storeowner, Salacia. He hadn't seen her in years and this was the entire reason for his trip. Where was she?
Gabriel felt a familiar tingle when he walked past the bench where several young people sat. He stopped and felt something strange come over him. It was powerful, this pulse of energy. No one he'd ever met before had such a strong sense of elemental ability. He stopped walking and let it sink into him. The power originated from one of the kids on that bench. Impossible. It took years for most people to achieve a fraction of this level of background energy. It could only mean one thing: there was a natural elemental manipulator next to him and he was on his way to obtaining all the necessary powers to achieve mastery over the fifth element.
Which one could it be? He faced them and tried to decide. They were talking about something among themselves. It couldn't be the girl it the tracksuit, she was another elemental. There it was, he could feel it. It had to be the tall boy, the one with the long jet-black hair. Gabriel looked at him again and felt the power this kid commanded. It was stronger than anything he'd ever sensed from a mortal human before. He needed to talk to him. His presence here had something to do with those nymph girl and human boy combinations he saw walking through the mall.
"Hello," he said as he walked up to the group. "None of you know me. I'm Captain Gabriel Briah. I need to speak with the one who's an element worker. I think that would be you, son?" He faced Dion. "Am I correct?'
Dion stared at him for a moment before he made his answer. "That's right. I am an elemental worker and my name is Dion." He introduced his friends and then returned to the captain. "I don't get a sensation of an elemental worker from you, although this place makes it hard to tell much of anything. Are you with the mall?"
"No, I'm trying to find the owner of the pool store, Salacia Delphi. Is she in there?"
"I'm waiting for her to get back too. I'm told she will be here in the next hour or two. The people working there tell me she is a little abstract on her sense of time."
"So why do you need to see her?" Dion asked the captain.
"We used to be married." The captain let it sink into the group for a few minutes.
"So, you're also an elemental worker?" Dion asked.
"No, I'm from Mt. Olympus."
Dion was stunned. He'd never met an immortal before. This was the first time he even knew about one coming down to the level of humanity. But the man didn't appear to be one of them. He looked old and beaten, not the sort of person you would expect to spend the afternoon talking with Zeus over the nature of storms and should reality be extended to the seventh dimension. He was at least sixty and sported a white beard and hair on his head to match. Dion assumed these beings were too busy at their lever to be concerned with the affairs of mortal men. He knew they did marry humans every now and then, but it was considered very rare. The captain was clothed in an old sea coat with matching black cap on his head. Hardly the person you would expect to cast lighting down from the sky. However, Dion did know that these beings liked to assume human form on occasion and visit this world.
"You don't look like someone from Mt. Olympus," Dion told him. "I would have expected a toga and a crown of light."
"That is the expensive method," the captain responded. "You watch too many Hollywood movies. If I could round up that much power on short notice, I wouldn't need anyone to track my ex-wife. I've had to come here personally to find her. Do you know her?"
"No," I'm here to get my third elemental power. My parents are imprisoned in the tower in the center of the mall. I need all four elemental powers so I can qualify for the fifth and get them out."
"With the fifth, you couldn't be stopped. It explains why all the elemental grandmasters are here inside the mall. Someone did everything they could to bring them here where they could be watched."
"Do you know anything about the mall?" Dion questioned him again. It seemed this man might have some information he needed.
"Not much. I know it was built over the entrance to the abyss. I still can't figure out why someone would do that. Best to leave these gates closed. Is there something I should know about this mall that I don't?"
"My uncle built it. Or at least his company built it. He is the major stockholder in the company, which owns it. He's also a fifth elemental worker, but one who learned the fifth without the other four."
"Ah," the captain said. "Him I've heard about. This would explain all the elementals I see around here. Those lovely young women walking with the guys their age, is that your doing?"
"Yes it is. Dennis here was glamoured by Appias and I thought if she likes him, the rest of her sisters should be introduced to some friends of mine. It solved a lot of problems."
"Or create them. You do realize they're all bonded now, don't you?"
"Yes, I knew it would happen when I introduced the entire group."
"So are you going to cut them loose when you get the full water power?"
"I don't think so. We should be able to work something out for them. There are a number of lakes around here."
"Not really a good idea," the captain explained. "It never works when a mortal loves someone who isn't. The next time I get back to Olympus, I'll see if Zeus is in the mood to grant some mortality. He doesn't do that very often."
The captain thought about it some more. Another plan might be to grant the boys immortality, but that had even worse side effects. It was bad enough aging while your wife stayed young forever, worse to see everyone you know grow old and die while you remained.
"So, what is your story?" Dion asked him. "You appear to have aged. Was that the result of marriage?"
"No, it was the result of Zeus making me human. I wanted to age with my wife but I didn't know she was resistant to it. It seems some of you elemental workers age very slowly. Not as slow as we do on Olympus, but slow enough to make a difference if you age at the normal rate of any other human. I started to notice it happen after we'd been together twenty years. After a long time, people began to ask us if she was my daughter. It became so bad I had to leave and go elsewhere. I ended up as a sailor and then the captain of my own charter boat. I've come back here to find out if she needs any help. Word came to me that her store in the mall was dangerously close to the abyss."
"So what happened when you became mortal?" Lilly asked. "Did someone get your job?"
"In fact, that is exactly what happened. It was a long resignation procedure and he didn't want me to go. But I was young and foolish. This is why your friends may eventually regret their decisions. When the time came for me to come to this world, Zeus promoted a younger immortal into my slot. He's running that part of the operation now and I wish him luck. He found out it was a lot less glamorous than it appeared. Even the benefits aren't that good anymore. You used to get your own island and palace to go with it. Now, you're lucky to get a boat and a crew.
"You used to have another name?" Emily asked him.
"Poseidon," he told them. "I used to go by Poseidon. But I had to turn my trident in when I left. I hope Hercules likes the job because he's stuck with it until someone else is foolish enough to get it."
"I can't say I've ever been in the presence of someone who was in control of the oceans," Dion said to the captain. "It must have been a step down to become a sailor."
"You might think that, but I was rather sick of the job. It's not all causing tidal waves and using your trident on arrogant whales. I had to inventory the oysters every year for Zeus. Can you imagine how much time that took? It was insane. Even with the help of the seals. No thank you, someone else can do the job. Plus I had to contend with those despicable oil freighters.  You have no idea how much trouble they can be and the damage they do when they leak. I'm glad to be mortal."
"But something had to cause you to want to be mortal," Emily brought up. "I can't imagine one day you suddenly decided to do it."
"No, it was the ex-wife and only her," he explained. "I'd tell you the entire story, but I'm sure you would find it too boring."
"Sit down, captain," Dion waved his hand at the bench. "We've nothing to do until Ms. Delphi appears. I'm sure we're all eager to hear about it."
"I will try not to bore you," the captain said as she seated himself on the bench.

Chapter 10

"I was sitting on a rock," the captain began, "watching some of the elementals sing one evening. I was in the Sargasso Sea. I like this part of the ocean because you never can tell what the tide action will bring to the center. I've found all kinds of things in many different broken up ships. Even found a treasure chest from lost Lemuria there one time. I have no idea how long it floated in that mess. Usually I send them to the bottom of the ocean or give the nicer sparkalies to the elementals since they like them so much." He saw Dirce blush, which he didn't know they could do, but he'd seldom seen them out of water.
I was in the process of looking over a boat to see if there was anything that needed my attention. Sometimes I find valuable items in them and, well, there are plenty of needy families who live by the shore and can use the help. I find a way to get the dolphins to take whatever will help to them. They usually don't know who dropped off coins or jewels, but I liked knowing that my job allowed me to do some good.
Anyway, I found this sail boat which was on one side. I was ready to send it to the bottom for refuse, when I saw something move inside it. I turned the boat over in the water, righted it after snapping off the mast, and found a young girl in it no older than any of you. It's not often I find anyone alive in these boats, so I was excited."
"Were you, like, four hundred feet high at that point?" Emily asked him. "I'm assuming you had the ability to vary your size."
The captain smiled. "No, much smaller. Just normal human size. It takes too much energy to do the Jolly Giant number, so I would conserve my mass. Besides, I was able to do a lot at normal size. It was one of the benefits of having the position: super human strength. When you have to check on the health of a Great White Shark, it's a good idea to have that ability.
As I was saying, it was a young woman. I was stunned by her beauty. Standard operating procedure was to place all survivors on the nearest outside the Sargasso Sea and hope for the best. But, she was a little different. I took her to the palace, which came with the job. This was before the cutbacks and downsizing sent the base of operations to a boat. I had the elementals at the island palace take care of her until she was rested.
Her name wasn't Salacia at the time, I gave it to her. I don't know where she came from originally, but the name was just too hard to pronounce. So I came up with the new one. Her speech patterns were unlike anything else I ever heard either, but the Olympian board of directors approved a new language acquisition plan that year and soon I could understand what she said.
Turned out she was the last survivor of a sunken city called Atlantis. I'd heard about it a few times, just never had the opportunity to run out and check on it because it was on a landmass on the lower part of the Pacific. From what I could make out the way she described it, the entire island went under the sea during a renovation of the crust. I'd tried to tell the Olympian maintenance department for years that they needed to watch out for these isolated places before they adjusted the undersea lava flow. As usual, no one ever listened to me. So we lost an entire civilization because no one checked to see if anyone was there. A disgrace, but I managed to save her.
She brightened up the palace a lot and after a while I kept finding an excuse not to spend too much time out on the sea. I tried to put in for an extension on the palace staff, but Zeus wouldn't listen to me. He claimed the elementals did the job just fine and no reason to involve a human in the oceanic department.
So he left me with no choice: I had to become a mortal if I intended to be with her. By the time I explained what I had in mind, she was ready to become my wife anyway. But I was sick of the job and wanted to move on. You try doing the same thing for ten thousand years and see what it does to you.
Now this all was very long and involved. I had to submit paperwork to the board of directors who needed to approve me turning into a mortal. It's always been a very controversial among the Olympians. One of the problems is that it takes a lot of time to make an immortal and they don't like the idea of getting rid of us once we're in a position that can be of benefit to them. I was once told that finding another position with the Olympians was almost impossible because once they had you in the slot where you were needed; they tended to keep you there. From their standpoint, it made no sense to train someone for several millennia, just to have them quit when they put them into the slot.
But I no longer cared. It was too long and I'd spent too much time doing the same job, as I said. After a while, you get sick and tired of the palace and all the elementals that wait on you. You just want to move into a different direction and find some place to retire. They don't like to talk about retirement because there is no lifespan for us. They talk about better opportunities once the market expands, but really, there is only one Earth and our skill sets just don't transfer well to other planets. I had a young girl I loved and she loved me so it was time to move on.
After ten years of pleading, I was able to get the paperwork approved. I took a special trip all the way back to Mt. Olympus and Zeus was waiting for me in his office. He tried to get me to change my mind, but Salacia was already waiting for me down at the bottom of the mountain where the cable car elevator begins. I took a cable car up because I felt it was time to get used to them. Couldn't see any reason to make the air elementals fly me up to the central headquarters.
He reluctantly signed off the paperwork and I rode the cable car back down. I know he was angry after personally recommending me for the position, but I had enough. Too many long nights trying to find a place to put the manatees when their feeding grounds were interrupted. Too many years spent finding a place in Scotland for that big lake monster to hide. That one wasn't even supposed to be under my jurisdiction, but the board decided since it was originally an ocean dweller, I had to take responsibility.
Anyway, by the time I was down at the bottom of the hill, we had everything resolved and I was fully mortal. I pricked my finger when I left the cable car just to prove it. I bled for the first time in over ten thousand years and was thrilled. I even showed my wound to Salacia. We went that night and found a little chapel where we said our vows. I had the license already, just needed to fill in the names part.
I thought everything would be fine. I had enough money saved where I didn't have to work if I didn't want to and we could enjoy our years in some nice dry land where the weather was good all year around. No more typhoons or hurricanes, I was sick of tending those.
But I noticed after the first twenty years that I was getting older and she wasn't. I had given up my immortality because I didn't want to see her age and now she was the one who didn't get old. It didn't make any sense. After another thirty passed, I was convinced it wasn't because of her good genes, she really wasn't aging. I confronted her about it one day and showed her the pictures through the years.
That was when Salacia confessed that she was an elemental worker. I was shocked because I can normally pick them out in a crowd from the funny sensations they give off. It was how I knew you had to be one when I walked past the bench. I can only surmise it had to do with her Atlantian origins. She was tuned differently and I never figured it out. Worse, she was a water elemental worker and we lived inland, far from the ocean. I never had the opportunity to see her do any elemental manipulation. We went to the nearest body of water and I saw some of the most amazing things from her. Water elementals walking on land but still made from liquid. Figures out of water, which rose from the lake. I'm sure she never had to worry about the 'grandmaster' status once the other elemental workers met her. She easily qualified.
But I had to go. I couldn't take the knowledge that she would age so slow it would barely register. I know not all of you do this and I think it had to be because of her Atlantis origins. Still, it was too much for me and I made up a reason why I needed to go to sea. So I bought the charter boat and have been running tours ever since. It's not hard to do if you're mortal when you've been managing the seas for countless millennia. I'm back here because I know she needs checking up on and I have to make sure she'll be fine even though this mall is over the entrance to the abyss. I learned about the reason for it being here from the guy who got the management job after me.
I was out on the boat one afternoon and a sea lion appeared out of nowhere. Sea lions don't come up to the Jersey shore; they are native to the Antarctic regions. So once I saw the sea lion in the water, I knew there was something I had to deal with right away. I returned to the pier with the people who chartered the boat and told them there was engine trouble. They seemed to believe me, or at least they did after I refunded their money and apologized.
Once they were gone, I took the boat out and made excuses that I had to fix something again, had to test a motor, anything to get back to where I noticed the sea lion. I waited long enough and the sea lion surfaced right near the boat. As I expected, he'd been sent to see to me by Herk, the kid who took the job after me. It seemed Herk was at a regional meeting and heard a rumor about someone placing a building over the abyss. They didn't know too much about the person who built it, other than he was an elemental worker with a very bad reputation. The word was out he had found a way to lure the local elemental grandmasters into his building somehow because he wanted control of them. The sea lion told me Herk knew I needed to be informed because one of them was my ex-wife. He knew I would want to look in on her and see if she needed anything.
And so here I am. It looks like we both have reasons for being here which are very similar.
"All we need is Ms. Delphi and it can be resolved, "Dion told him. He looked at his wristwatch. "She was supposed to be here fifteen minutes ago. I hope nothing has happened to her."
"Probably not," the captain replied. "She never was one for keeping her appointments. It amazes me she put together this little business empire with her bad sense of time."
Dion turned to face the corridor and saw James returning with the elemental who'd left with him. He needed to think for a few seconds and remembered her name was Cynae. She was another blond who caused hearts to stop as she walked through the mall hand in hand with James. But James had a small bag in the other hand and was headed for the bench where Dion sat.
"How did she like the mall?" Dion asked James.
"Why don't you ask her directly?" James said. Dion turned to Cynae and repeated the question.
"It's nice," she told him. "I don't see why you make such a big deal out of shopping and looking for things. I see so many items sold here that are just different variations of the same thing. But if it makes James happy, I'll come here with him every day."
"But let me get to the point," James said. He held up the bag and made sure Dion could see it. "I went over to your friend Hobbs' store and told him we expected some trouble in the blue section of the mall, so he gave me this."
"What is it this time?" Dion asked.
Hobbs was a small man who ran a special shop in the mall for people who looked for interesting art objects and needed things they couldn't get anywhere else. He'd supplied Dion with the Seer stone, which made his map of the mall readable.
"See for yourself," James said as he handed Dion the bag.
Dion opened the bag and pulled out a silver chalice. It was only three inches tall and didn't appear to be very valuable. The silver on the surface was in a bad need to be polished and the tarnish on it was thick. He turned it over and tried to figure out where it was made. By the appearance, he assumed it to be from the nineteenth century in England. There was no silversmith or other manufacturer's stamp on it.
"It doesn't look like much," Dion told his friend. "What's it supposed to do?"
"It controls nymph elementals."
"Naiads!" both Dirce and Cynae corrected him at the same time.
"Naiads, then. According to Hobbs, it can neutralize any malignant water elemental for a short time. You sit the cup down in front of them and they pour into it in liquid form. It won't bind them for more than one hour, but it allows you to buy some time. You have a bad water elemental attack you and the cup can contain them inside it."
James handed Dion a piece of paper. "Memorize the words on this. It activates the cup. You can't use it without the words of power."
Dion looked at the words for a few minutes, then folded the paper up and put it into his pocket. "Sumerian," was all he could say. "Guess that explains the origin of the chalice."
Dion swiftly introduced them to the captain. "I guess we're all waiting for this Salacia lady," James said. "Is there anything we can do in the meantime?"
"Not really," Dion told him. "You might as well show Cynae the rest of the mall while we wait. Try to bring her up to speed on the world we live in. She'll need to know. If you see any of the other chess club members and the, uhm, Naiads with them, advise everyone we're still waiting on the pool owner and can't go anywhere until she makes an appearance."
James and Cynae walked back into the main mall, as they attracted attention from the other shoppers. Dion could only speculate about the kind of attention the other guys and their girlfriends were attracting. He was certain they would change the entire social scene at the high school once they returned from spring vacation.
"So far no sign of Karanzen or any of his thugs," Dion said to the group. "I'm hoping this will be the one day we don't have to put up with him."
"Someone I should know about?" Captain Gabriel asked him. The captain remained standing. He knew Salacia would be here soon enough and wanted to be the first one to see her. Inside his heart, he missed her deeply and wished there was some way he could reconcile with her. But he would be an old man soon and she didn't look much older than thirty, although she was well over two hundred years old. He wished at times that he'd never decided to renounce his immortality. Why hadn't she told him she was an elemental worker when they first met?
"Officer Karanzen," Dion told him. "He's in charge of mall security. He has tried every day to keep me from reaching an elemental grandmaster. He's not quite human anymore and thinks he can scare us with his little tricks. But he has security guards who work for him and you never know when they will get in the way. He tried to keep us from entering the mall this morning, but we entered with the water elementals when they mobbed the door. I haven't seen him around since then, but it's only a matter of time."
"I'll keep a watch for him," the captain replied. "He won't be able to do anything to me, even if I'm mortal. One of the advantages of being from the mountain is that we're immune from any elemental action."
James was busy talking his favorite subject over with Cynae: chess. She was listening intently to every world he said. Her light blond hair was over one shoulder as she leaned forward in her tracksuit to listen to him. James took a good half hour to describe his winning move at the last tournament where he played to her and she sat there transfixed on every word he said. This was a new experience to him.
Most of the time, the girls in school would look at their watch and find an excuse to leave if he tried to tell one of them about a game. It wasn't as exciting as football or any other of the team sports the school pushed so hard. In fact, next year the chess club would be known as the chess 'team' and anyone who was a member would be able to get a letter for their jacket. They were even thinking of a name for the new team. The favored name was the 'Kings'. It seemed to fit.
They sat in a small ice cream parlor, which was one of several in the mall. This one was part of a nation franchise. James remembered when it was a small place near his parents' house where they would go on hot evenings in the summer. The line would grow long as the small town had few other places to go in the warmer months. Before the mall opened, if you wanted some adventure, you went downtown to Scipio.
"So you had him in a gambit and he didn't even know?" Cynae asked him. "I would have taken out his rook a lot quicker than what you did, but you won the game, so it doesn't matter."
"How could you have taken out his rook?" he asked her. "He had it defended by the queen."
"Oh, it's not too hard if you plan ahead." Cynae took the salt, peppershakers from the next table, and began to assemble a layout where she showed him how, with spoons and forks added, how easy it would have been to do it earlier. Every time he voiced an objection, she showed him a way it could be done even if his opponent had made some uncommon moves. By the end of an hour, he sat there stunned at her strategy and planning.
"You've played this game a lot," he said to her.
"We all have," she said. "Next to 'go', it's popular with us."
"You play go?" James asked. His ice cream had melted while he listened to Cynae and her descriptions of chess moves. Go was a game he knew a little bit about, just never had much of a chance to play."
"Yes, we play it all the time on the rocks. You only need different colored stones to have a game and those are easy enough to find. I wish we had a board and I could play now."
"I'm sure there would be a way we could sketch one out," he told her.
Just that instant, James noticed three women enter the ice cream parlor. There was something strange about them, but he tried not to pay much attention to the trio. Each wore some kind of uniform and appeared to be searching for something. Ten seconds later their eyes and Cynae's locked together as they made contact. Nothing was said, but James saw the anger build in Cynae's face as she watched the trio walk over to them.

Chapter 11

"What do we have here?" the first said to the one next to her. "I think their profile matches the shoplifters we've been after the past two months."
"Yes it does," the second answered. "Guess you two kids will need to come with us."
James noticed the name of the security company on their uniforms, which the mall employed to guard the place. It was the same one Karanzen and his men officially worked for in the mall. Dion lacked the opportunity to tell James about the security chief and why he wanted him out of the mall. They all appeared to be in their thirties and wore silver badges over their uniforms. Each had their black hair tied back. They wore dresses with their uniforms and high heels. The heels were a giveaway something was wrong with them, but James had no way to know about it.
"You have a lot of guts coming in here and acting this way," Cynae said to the women in front of her. "If we were back on my rock the twelve of us would take care of you quick."
"But you're not on the rock or in your cave," the second of the uniformed women said to her. "You're some place where your powers have less effect. Furthermore, you sisters are wondering around with humans they've glamoured. Just like you put one on this young man. Since it works both ways, you have attraction to him as well. So why don't you just shut up and come with us?"
"Do you know these women?" James said to Cynae. He had no idea what she talked about, but ever since meeting her this afternoon, his world was disrupted.
"I know who they are," she said. Cynae turned back to the women. "All I have to do is release him and I can concentrate fully on you three."
"You might be able to do that," the first woman said. "But then what happens to your young man? He can't stand up to us and we still outnumber you three to one."
"You wouldn't dream of hurting him in this place."
"Would we? We work for the man who built it. I think he's willing to do a lot so that we can carry our mission. So if you really want to free this young man, go ahead and see what happens. But you might want to consider the possibility what we will do.
While James stood there confused, Cynae resigned herself to leaving with them. There wasn't much else she could do at this point. They had her exactly where she was the most vulnerable.
"Let's go," she said to James. They left the ice cream parlor with the three new water elementals disguised as security guards.

Floating around the top of the ice cream parlor was a small air elemental sylph. She had accidently blown into the blue water part of the mall earlier that day when a door opened on the outside and a rush of people sent her in with them. She wanted to get out and back into the fresh air where she could spend the day playing in the air currents. She'd been unnoticed by the water elementals down on the ground. Just as she thought it was time to leave and not attract attention, since she wasn't supposed to be in this part of the mall, the sylph spotted the confrontation between James, Cynae, and the three uniformed elementals. She recognized him as part of the elemental worker's group who was over in the hall.
It occurred to her she might be able to trade some favors for this bit of information. As soon as the door opened again to the parlor, she shot out into the main concourse of the mall in search of Dion. No one noticed her leave, other than another chess club guy and his elemental girlfriends. The elemental looked up and wondered why an air sylph was in the water part of the mall and why was it in such a hurry to get out. But she said nothing as her boyfriend was babbling about comic books and she was eager to learn more from him.
"Have you seen any of the chess club guys?" Dion spoke a few minutes later. "I know they're wandering around the mall with their new girlfriends, but I thought some of them would have returned by now."
"Not a one," Dennis spoke. He was still in heaven with his elemental girl as they cuddled on the bench. Dion began to feel like a chaperone at a dance when he noticed Sean and Emily in their own state of nirvana. He felt something from behind and turned to see Lilly starring at him with her big brown eyes. What was it that these elemental possessed which caused such bliss to break out among people? Even the shoppers walking down the corridor started to make contact as they passed them. Husbands and wives who's entered the mall angry at each other where touching for the first time in years.
"She should be around here soon," the captain said as he consulted his watch. He wore a big mariner's watch on his wrist. It was built sturdily to be used on ocean vessels. The watch was sealed in a special case so it could survive a sudden plunge underwater.
The captain paced back and forth. He seemed out of place in this mall. People in Ohio only thought about the sea when on vacation. It was too far away for even a weekend trip. With the Pacific Ocean far away across the Rocky Mountains on one end and the Atlantic separated by another mountain range, there wasn't much of a casual opportunity to visit them. Even the gulf region was so far away it didn't make a difference. When people spoke about the beach, it usually meant the one at a lake.
Sean had allowed himself to be a bystander most of the time today. He didn't mind as it gave him some time with Emily. He wished they could talk alone, but the whole reason they came to the mall today was to support Dion. To leave would be dangerous, as he wouldn't have the coverage he needed to protect himself against his uncle. Emily had enjoyed her day too, especially after seeing the couples emerge hand-in-hand from the pool store. Perhaps something good could happen at this mall. No idiotic security guards to bother them, which was a blessing after the initial confrontation they'd encountered this morning. Somehow, she didn't think it would last all day and she enjoyed the brief reprieve.
Dion felt an air current and saw an air elemental sylph shoot into the corridor above him. It was one of the smaller ones, but he still could communicate with it. No one else, even the sea captain, could recognize the elemental. Even Dirce looked up and saw it only with great difficulty. She decided it wasn't anything to be concerned about and returned her attention to Dennis.
The small air sylph didn't talk as much as send impressions to Dion. All it could tell him was that three suspicious women had taken James and Cynae out with them. Dion asked it where they'd gone and it couldn't remember. Then it had a second thought and sent him an impression of the group entering the aquarium store toward the entrance of the mall. Dion could visualize the name of the store, Amphitrite Tropical Fish, from it as he'd walked past the place earlier in the day. The sylph wanted to know if it could get something in return for the information and Dion told it of a cloud bank which was due to roll in this evening. As an Air Elemental Master, he had some advance knowledge of the weather patterns from the sylphs who rode the storms. Dion noticed a side exit door, walked over to it, and let the small elemental fly outside.
"We've got another problem," Dion told his crew when he returned. "There is someone else in the mall working against us. I just had a small air elemental tell me three women pulled James and Cynae out of an ice cream parlor and took them over to the aquarium."
"Any clue who it might be?" the captain asked.
"If they're in this part of the mall, I would guess some kind of water elemental. It sounds like my uncle had a back-up plan and just initiated it."
Dion closed his eyes and tried to get a visual on the three women the sylph had shown him by way of an impression before it left. What he could see wasn't quite as clear as a photograph and it was filtered through the sylph's sensations. They had uniforms on and left without much resistance from the couple. He felt something very strange about them and then the faces were clear.
"They're the same three women who took care of me when I was little," he said. "The same ones who tried to do me harm until the truck driver intervened. Now they're back."
When he saw the confused look on the captain's face, he explained what happened with the elemental nannies that'd raised him until he was just about ready for school.
"Did you parents ever give you a reason for why they acted that way?" the captain asked him.
"Never," Dion said. "They didn't want to talk about it."
"I walked past that aquarium store when I came into the mall," the captain continued. "It seemed a little funny, but I didn't stop long to check it out."
"We can assume it's where the rest of the chess club and other Naiads are right now," Dion said. "I don't want to storm the place, but we need to find out why they were taken there. Fortunately, I have the map." He unrolled it on the bench and looked at the papyrus while the captain strained his head to get a look. "It's a special map, it shows places you won't find on the regular ones."
Dion looked the map over and tried to make it out. The words became fuzzy, but he was able to find most of the landmarks near the mall entrance. However, no aquarium was listed on it. There were the usual mall stores and places not open to the general public, but he could not find a trace of the aquarium supply store he's seen earlier in the day. It had to be there as the captain had noted it too.
As he looked at the map, the letters began to fade and slowly lose their coherence. The light faded from his background and he realized that he was being taken from the mall and sent somewhere else. He could've resisted the transfer, but at this time he needed all the information he could find and the person who was sending him elsewhere just might have a valuable piece he needed. He waited for the transfer to complete and closed his eyes until he felt the warm sun of a desert on his face.
Dion opened his eyes and found himself in the familiar Egyptian landscape. This time it was Mr. Jehuti alone who greeted him. Dion didn't wear the robes of the old kingdom as he'd done before, but stood in the same jeans and jacket he'd worn before the transfer. This had to be very important for it to happen so fast without any time to adjust his appearance. He was alone this time, which meant he was transferred in the fastest way possible.
"Good afternoon, Dion," Mr. Jehuti said. He was alone and wore the same suit and tie as the one he kept on at his newsstand. "I needed to speak to you right away and didn't have time to make many adjustments. I hope you don't mind. When you return, it will be at the same time you left, give or take a second. So you don't have to worry about tarrying very long."
"Why is the map unreadable?" he asked the newsstand owner. "And why can't I see the aquarium store where my friends have been taken?"
"Your uncle has found a way to interfere again. He has many resources at his fingers because he built the mall over the abyss."
"Who took my friends?"
"You uncle had another group of water elementals on stand-by in case he had some problems with his first plan. The second groups of elementals have used the same strategy with your friends who are wandering around the mall with the water elemental Naiads."
"Why doesn't the aquarium supply store appear on my map?" Dion demanded.
"Because it didn't exist until yesterday. Your uncle was able to recruit these three water elementals at the last minute. He placed the store there just in case he needed them, but it didn't go into operation until yesterday. There is a human owner of it, but she knows nothing of his plans. He's managed to recruit all kinds of bad elementals from the water domain to stock it, so it's not your ordinary fish supply store. I'm telling you this because you have to get in there and rescue your friends before it's too late. He's found a way to bind the Naiad sisters into the place so you can't get them out as easily as you did the last time. Your uncle has become desperate and is turning to desperate measures to stop you from obtaining all your powers."
Dion turned and looked up at the sky. The bug was still moving the sun across the heavens and the ship was still sailing behind it. Funny how nothing changed in this location. It was outside the circles of time and he didn't have a clue where it was located. In the distance, he could see another pyramid under construction. The farmers were singing some work song as they hauled another block of stone on a sled across the sands. Hard to imagine they needed the sled and oxen to do it when it was possible to transfer him from his own time circle. What would they sing when the pyramid was finished? Would the farmers and engineers start on a bigger and more impressive pyramid than the last one?
"If you can send me here right in the middle of all the trouble we have in my time circle," he asked, "why can't you deal with my uncle for me and free my parents?"
"Because you have to do it. It's in the rules. You have to find the four elemental grandmasters on your own and you need to overcome whatever adversity is in your path. I'm allowed to help, but not directly intervene. If we did that all the time, what good would this quest be?"
"What else is he planning to do when I rescue the chess club guys who are in the aquarium? I don't think he uses the same stagey each time. My uncle didn't get control of his father's company by using the same plans for each market."
"He'll try to ambush you with Karanzen and the security guards when you leave. You can rest assured of that. Karanzen is desperate too, but I don't think he is so stupid as to use firearms inside the mall. The first time a gun is discharged in the mall, no one will ever come back. One of the attractions of an indoor mall is that it provides a safe place for people to ship in a controlled environment. Lose that advantage and the mall no longer becomes a good shopping option."
"I don't know where else they would go. What are they going to do? Order everything out of a catalogue?"
"You would be surprised at the lengths people will go to make shopping easy for themselves."
Dion looked down and kicked at the ground. "This is getting absurd," he said to Mr. Jehuti. "Every time I go after my elemental power, one of my friends is kidnapped and I have to rescue them. Now he's grabbed an entire club with the girls I found for them. What does he plan to do next? Abduct the entire football team?"
"I would put very little past your uncle. He thinks he's in control, but the abyss has affected his mind."
Dion was reaching the limits of his endurance. All his life he'd been told by his parents about the important quest he needed to undertake someday. When they were abducted and he went to live with his aunt and uncle, they told him he still needed to finish the quest. Dion knew it was the only way to free his parents. He needed that fifth elemental power to get them out and he had to obtain it the right way, not by the false path his uncle chose.
"Those are the three elementals that raised me," he said to Mr. Jehuti. "Aren't they? They're the ones, who tried to harm me before the delivery truck showed up, aren't they?"
"You are correct on that statement. Your uncle found the elementals that were corrupted and turned them against you. He knew if once they could turn them against you, it could be done again."
"Who was the older woman I saw them talking to before they turned on me? No one has ever said who she was or why a delivery truck just happened to be around when they came after me. There was hardly anyone on the beach that day."
"All in due time. You will learn the answers when you need to find them out. Right now, you need to return to your own time circle and resume the rescue of your friends. I'm going to send you back right now. You will appear at the same time you left. At least so close no one will notice you've gone."
Mr. Jehuti raised his hand and the scene before Dion faded. Everything went black during the transfer as it always did.
Dion blinked and opened his eyes. He was back at the corridor outside the pool store. His friends were still there watching him, ready to move out and head in the direction of the aquarium.
"Dion?" the captain said to him. "You were just talking about the fish supply store where your friends were taken. What else do you know about it?"
"It's not on the map," Dion said as he held up the papyrus roll and showed it to them. "The aquarium supply store was put in place yesterday as part of my uncle's fall back plan in case the Naiads didn't keep me from the pool store."
Dion studied the map and watched the location of the store slowly fill in on it. Whatever his uncle had done to keep it off the map, a trip to the Valley of the Kings took care of it. Mr. Jehuti had reset the map and he could continue on with the mission. The map showed the outline of the store, but it didn't reveal exactly what was inside it. Dion made out several large rooms in the back large enough to hold a group of people. He shoved the map in his jacket and picked the cup off the bench. Time to move out.
"Do you have a plan as to what we're supposed to do when we reach the aquarium store?" Captain Gabriel asked Dion as they group walked down the concourse. The foot traffic had increased over the hours they'd been in the store.
"I will when we get there."
It irritated Dion that so many of the parents with small children were not paying attention to them. Several times that day he's seen kids walking into stores and pull items off the shelf while the adults ignored them and continued talking to the people they knew. At one point, he was forced to inform a woman her toddler had wandered out of the store while she was busy in conversation with a friend. The woman had looked in anger at him while she ran out and retrieved the child. If these were the parents, he dreaded what the future would bring.
Still no sign of the security guards. Perhaps Karanzen resigned himself to his inability to keep Dion and company out of the mall, but he doubted it. Outside a jewelry store, an armed security guard stood on watch, but he worked for the store, not the mall. Dion was certain there were plenty of undercover store detectives who were employed to keep loss to a minimum, but he didn't have to worry about them. Every so often, he would catch a glance of a uniform in the distance, but the guards didn't approach them.
"We could be walking into a trap," the captain said to him. "It wouldn't be the first time someone was kidnapped so that someone else was lured into a rescue."
"It's been tried twice this week. My uncle has something else up his sleeve and he'll try it by a different method."
The captain sighed and continued to walk with them. He was concerned Salacia hadn't appeared when she was supposed to be there. Granted, she was never so punctual, but now he was worried. It was a good thing he'd traveled out here to check up on her. The letters were few over the past few years. She seemed excited about the new store, which was opening at the mall, but the general tone of her letter made him check in with some of the immortals he still talked with. When he learned of the mall's location over the abyss, the captain decided it was time to go out and check on her himself.
They stood outside the aquarium supply store and looked at it. The front façade was decorated with fish and creatures of the deep. Dion thought it a little odd the pictures they'd chosen were of sea predators: sharks, eels and stingrays. If he needed a sign that the store represented the abyss, the picture on the window of the Marianas Trench was it. The lighting was not the bright spotlights used for most stores, but a series of ultraviolet lights, which reacted to the fluorescent colors on the doors to give a spectral appearance. It was impossible to see inside it, which Dion knew had to be intentional. He watched the lights turn on and off slowly, bringing the ghosts of the deep into play with each cycle.
"You wanted to know my plan," Dion said to his friends. "Well, here it is. I'm going in there. Alone. Give me an hour, if I don't come out call the police. I don't think they'll be able to do much good, but it's the only idea I have at the moment."
"I don't want you to go in there alone," Lilly said as she grabbed hold of his hand.
"I know, but I have no idea what is on the other side of those doors. My uncle has done everything he could do to stop me from obtaining my elemental powers and he his prime plan failed spectacular today. I don't know what he's planned for the backup, but he had his elemental harpies haul the chess club inside there somehow. I have to get them back and only I can do it."
"What happens if Karanzen makes an appearance with his bully boys?" Sean asked him.
"Just try to hold him off until I get out of there or an hour has passed. I'm sure you can think of something. Threaten to call your parents' lawyer or something. The important thing is to get of them out of there and then locate Salacia Delphi. Captain Gabriel, if you see her out here, can you hold your ex-wife long enough for me to get back?"
"I don't think it should be too much trouble."
"Good." Dion turned to the rest of the group. "I'm depending on every one of you. Stay put until I get back."
He checked his wristwatch and pushed the doors open.

Chapter 12

The inside of the aquarium store was dim. The vestibule was lit by glowing fish drawings in fluorescent colors illuminated by the ultraviolet lights on the ceiling. He heard the doors close behind him and looked inside, but didn't see anyone. The counter seemed vacant.
Behind the counter stood endless rows of tropical fish tanks. In front of them were the supplies, which could be found in any store of a similar size. Dion stepped in and listened. All he could hear was the continuous sound of air pumps running. Every now and then, something bubbled in one of the tanks. He walked over to the nearest tank and looked inside.
It was a scorpion fish, one of the deadliest and most beautiful fish on the planet. The fish was a symphony of color and textures, but it also carried a poison most people with the wrong allergy would find fatal. In the tank next to it, he noticed a lionfish, followed by a big tank with a puffer fish in it. The entire row of tanks contained venomous fish.
Dion saw a shadow move in the distance and checked his coat to make certain he'd brought along the cup from Hobbs. It wasn't very large and Hobbs had never lied to him yet. If he said the cup would bind a water elemental, he was right. It was simply a matter of getting to the elementals his uncle had used to capture his friends.
He walked a little further back and saw a huge round tank in the middle of the store. The tank was gigantic, almost the size of a swimming pool. A diver could easily fit into it. Coral and other salt-water creatures swam inside it, but there had to be another reason it was in the store. Dion looked inside the tank, which was lit from the bottom, and saw a full-grown shark swimming around. It was impressive, but not what you expected to see inside an aquarium supply store.
Another shadow was just out of his vision and Dion realized this one was further up front, closer to the door. They were entrapping him by allowing him to walk further back into the store. Whoever they were, they were working in cahoots to lure him to the back of the store. Dion closed his eyes and tried to see if he could feel any elementals in the store. He couldn't, which meant there was some kind of background activity to limit his abilities. His uncle had rented this store to be a trap and he was inside it.
He saw a face on the other side of a large tank and it was gone. Dion recognized it; the face was one of the three elementals who'd raised him until they tried to attack him. He couldn't remember much about the three women who turned out to be water elemental nymphs, but he did know they were very powerful for an elemental of their class. He walked around to the other side of the tank, but no one was there.
There was another shadow further down the aisle between the tanks and he followed it. Behind him, Dion heard a very feminine laugh. They wanted him to know the aquarium store with its black light was their domain. He still hadn't seen a single person inside it. Where did they hide the captured chess club and girlfriends?
The first one met him at the end of the aisle where the wall stood. According to the map, there should be another room beyond it. Plenty of space for a twenty or more people to be held and not create too much of a problem. The nymph stood there in her uniform with a sinister smile on her face. Dion couldn't imagine what kind of twisted ability was employed to take carefree water elemental and turn it into this creature.
"Where are my friends?" Dion asked her. "You're holding them in this store, aren't you?"
She laughed and darted to the next row of tanks, daring him to follow her. Dion walked over to it and found the row empty. It didn't surprise him. The elementals were in their own environment. And one of these tanks could house them and allow for their escape. They could be used to imprison them too, but first you had to find out which tank they were inside.
He saw a figure on the other side of the aisle waiting for him. The nymphs didn't even try to hide right now. They wanted to be found. Dion crossed over again and followed the lone figure down the aisle in the direction of the shark tank. I only made sense they would lead him there.
All three of the nymphs were waiting for him at the junction of the aisles were the shark tank was situated. The stood close together and smiled. They'd manage to shed their uniforms and were covered in their long black hair. All three were dripping with water and covered in seaweed as well.
"So what did he offer you? Dion said to them. "What did he pay you to capture those innocent people and hold them here? You took the Naiads who were with them too, didn't you? There are only three of you. Three against one human and one Naiad you can manage. But what happens when all of them are freed? How will you contain their rage when that happens?"
"You think you are so powerful and high," the first told him. She stood in the center and glared in Dion's direction. "All those years your parents forced us to work for them. Don't you think we hated every minute of it? Do you think your parents might've considered us and how we felt turned into slaves? At least your uncle is paying us. What did we ever get from your parents?"
"Why did you turn on me?" he demanded. "Who was the woman you were talking to before you came at me? I remember her; she was older than you were. A lot older than any of you, almost an elderly woman."
"She doesn't always appear that way," another one of the nymphs said to him. "Sometimes she appears as young as we are. Sometimes much older than what you thought."
"She's an immortal," another one said.
Dion realized they were moving out to each side to make it difficult for him to focus on any particular one of them. The air sylphs have tried the same technique the day before. This time they surrounded him in a matter of second and began to walk in a circular pattern around him.
"The truck driver was an immortal too," another one of the nymphs giggled. "Didn't your parents ever tell you that? You think the only reason you have such ability is the reason your parents told you?"
The nymphs began to move rapidly around him. Dion realized what they were trying to do: confuse him. If they could trap him in the aquarium store, he couldn't get to the next stage of his quest. They needed to control him and keep him here for his uncle. They couldn't do it for long, but if his uncle needed him out of the picture, they didn't need to imprison him here very long. Quite possibly this was the same way the water elementals had imprisoned is friends.
Dion felt dizzy. Just as if the last time he had to wait and make the elementals think he was trapped and had no way to respond. They didn't know about the cup he had inside his jacket. If they started whatever practice they'd used to imprison his friends on him, it would cause them to momentarily expose a weakness. A weakness he could exploit.
He felt the moisture in the air. Whatever the nymphs planned, it was about to happen. In his mind, Dion began a countdown again. He needed to make them think they were in full control at this point. And why not? They'd used this technique against the members of the chess club and their girlfriends. If he was just another mortal, shouldn't it work too?
Dion felt a power surge as they stopped their movement. This was supposed to disorient him enough so they could entrap him, but they hadn't counted on what he had inside his jacket. He pulled the cup out of his jacket and raised it up into the air the moment the energy was at its peak.
Dion spoke the words he'd memorized.
There was a flash and the nymphs were gone. The cup was hot, so hot it threatened to burn his fingers. The energy the nymphs summoned to entrap him was dissipated into the cup. He needed to get into some place cool before it turned red hot. Dion looked at the shark tank in front of him and hurled the cup into the middle of it.
The metal cup hit the water as steam rose up from it. He didn't think it would hurt the shark, but he had no options at the moment. He watched the cup sink to the bottom, water boiling around it as it went down. The shark momentarily ceased to swim around the tank and made a detour to the sinking cup. It felt the heat, which radiated from it, and made a U-turn back to the walls of the round tank where it resumed its circular swimming pattern. The cup sat on the bottom of the tank as the heat rose to the surface. Dion walked up to the thermometer on the side of the tank and looked at it. It might rise a few degrees, but the shark would be fine.
The elementals, on the other hand, were in a worse state. The cup was designed to trap elementals inside it, but the nymphs had magnified its ability by their generation of a power cone. The focus of the cone ended up being the cup, instead of Dion. When the apex of the cone touched the cup, it pulled them into it. Now there were permanently trapped inside the cup, which was a hunk of fused metal after the heat flash.
Dion heard a rumble behind him and turned to the wall at his rear. It was dematerializing as he stood there. Whatever force the nymphs used to keep it in place was gone since they were trapped inside the remains of the cup. The wall became translucent, then transparent and finally it was gone. What remained in its place was the room on the other side, which was filled with supplies for the store.
And the members of the chess club with their Naiad girlfriends.
The young men were hazy and acted as if they'd just waken from a deep sleep. The rubbed their eyes and looked around, unsure where they were. The Naiads, on the other hand, knew exactly what had taken place. They were angry. Dion found himself facing a group of confused guys and a furious collection of young women in swim team tracksuits. He could see the fire in their eyes.
"Where are they?" the Naiad called Cynae demanded. "We want them."
"There was only three," one of her sisters roared. "We'll have to divide them up. I've got a beach infested with lamprey's I want to introduce them to."
"They're sealed in the cup I used," Dion said. "The cup overheated when they tried to trap me too. It's at the bottom of the shark tank." He pointed to the mass of metal at the bottom, some heat still waffling up to the surface.
The Naiads formed a group around the tank and looked in.
"They can't get out from it," Cynae pointed out. "Unless some idiot allows them to leave. I don't think too many people will attempt to enter the this tank."
"It has to be cleaned sometime," another one of the Naiads said. "What if someone finds the cup and doesn't know what it holds?"
"I don't think we can risk letting them out," Cynae agreed. "At least not this century. Who wants to go in there and get it?"
Four of the elementals leaped into the shark tank and dissolved into their water from the moment they hit the surface. The water churned as they went to the bottom of the tank and returned to the surface. The only thing Dion could see was the melted mass of the cup rise to the surface. Once it was on the top of the water, the Naiads returned to their human form and climbed out of the tank, water dripping everywhere. The shark had moved away from them when they hit the water, as it instinctively knew to avoid the water elementals.
"So how do we decide who gets to take care of them?" Cynae asked the four Naiads who'd sank to the bottom of the tank to get the melted cup.
"I'll hold it for now," the one who grabbed it from the tank said. "Someone else can get the honor to dispose of it when this is all over. I'd like to dump it in the Sahara Desert, but we'll put it to a vote." She unzipped a pocket on her tracksuit, slid the mashed cup inside it, and zipped the pocket back up.
The chess club had stood in amazement while the elementals transformed as they hit the water. It was hard to say anything to a girl you'd fallen in love with who was forced to see you hauled off by what they assumed were security guards. They stood there, mouths open and quiet. The elementals were still gathered around the tank, their anger only a few degrees lower.
"So can anyone tell me what happened before I arrived?" Dion asked them.
"I was in an ice cream parlor with James when the three of them came and ordered us to come along," Cynae said. There were three of them and I didn't know what they might do to James, so I came along. The next thing I know we were here. I don't remember a thing until you broke the barrier they used to keep us here."
"Is that pretty much what happened to the rest of you?" Dion asked the other Naiads.
They nodded.
"They were the fall back plan in case you changed your mind," Dion explained. "I would expect we won't have it easy once we leave this place. My uncle is determined to keep me from meeting up with Salacia Delphi."
"Did I hear someone call my name?" a voice from behind the cluster of chess club guys called out. The bodies parted and women who appeared to be Greek and in her thirties stepped through the crowd.

Chapter 13

"You are Salacia Delphi?" Dion asked the woman.
"I don't know any other ones," she responded. She wasn't very tall and her hair was short and curly. She wore a dress with a suit jacket over it.
"How did you end up here?" he asked her. "I've been waiting all day for you outside your store on the other end of this part of the mall."
"Sorry, I was late. Traffic on the interstate and I had to pick up some parts from the shipper. I got here an hour ago and was on my way back to the store when three women in security guard uniforms pulled me aside and wanted to talk. Next thing I know I'm here. Is that what happened to everyone?"
"Yes. You were captured by some rogue elementals working for the guy who built the mall. I'm an elemental worker like you, but I can work all four elements. I already have full powers on the first two; I need your initiation to work the third."
"All four? Haven't run into anyone who could do that in a long time. You should try for the fifth if you can get all four. There haven't been many people who could work the fifth in history."
"My uncle is one of them, but he did it the wrong way by not getting his authorization to work the first four."
"Not good," she said to them. "I've heard bad things about people who went in that way to get the fifth. It never ends well."
"I've heard that too," Dion agreed. "I guess my uncle is proof enough of it."
"Well, now that we're one big happy family here," she said, "perhaps you can introduce me to all these fine young people."
Dion quickly introduced her to the chess club and the elementals in the form of young women with them. He could see her eyes widen as he told her the story of what happened before she arrived. He neglected to tell her about her former husband, Captain Gabriel, who stood outside and wanted to see her too.
"I can't believe what you did," she said to him. "But you made the best decision anyone could've done in this situation. I'll have no trouble granting you full water elemental powers, but we need to get back to my store so I can do it in the office."
"Door is in that direction," Dion told her. The combined group filed out through it.
As Dion, the last to leave, exited the store, a lady walked up to him and stared in confusion at the crowd who left it. "What is going on here?" she demanded. "I couldn't get the door open and the maintenance crew is supposed to be on their way to fix it for me."
The woman appeared to be light in complexion and small in size. "Do you work here?" Dion asked her.
"I own this place," she snapped at him. "We just opened yesterday."
"Don't worry, we didn't take any fish. Nice selection. Who came up with the design?"
"I did!" she snapped at him.
"The shark in the tank was a good idea," Dion said to her as he walked away.
"What shark?" she demanded to know. Dion simply continued to walk with his group. His uncle, or the elementals, had made some changes.
The next group they encountered was his friends who'd stood outside and waited. Lilly ran up to Dion and tossed her arms around him, relieved that he'd managed to get everyone out of the aquarium store safely. The rest of them appeared to be calmed that his plans worked out.
"Everything alright out here?" he asked Sean and the rest of the group.
"No real problems," the captain told him. "We had some kind of security guard come by and look us over, but he left after a few minutes.  I guess we weren't the criminals he needed to find."
"Probably went back to the usual suspects," Dion said. He was about to tell the captain his ex-wife was inside the aquarium store with the others when she stepped out from the crowd again.
Captain Gabriel had an instant look of relief on his face and walked up to Salacia. She stopped and looked at him with equal surprise. It was a special moment for both of them and they hugged.
"What are you doing here?" they said at the same time.
"I heard about your new store in this mall," Captain Gabriel said to Salacia. "I had a bad feeling about it so I put out the word to some people I know to look into it. They did and told me it was built over the entrance to the abyss. I knew I had to get back here and make sure you were safe when I didn't get a quick answer to the last letter I wrote."
"As you can see, I'm safe and sound. No reason to worry about me. Those nymphs who captured me and the rest are locked away some place where they won't get out very soon if at all." She turned in Dion's direction. "Why didn't you tell me he was here?"
"I didn't want to ruin the surprise for you."
"It was nice of you. Especially after being trapped in that place. Come on, we need to get back to my office so I can give Dion his full water elemental powers."
The group continued on their way toward the pool store. This time there were no further interruptions. Most people didn't think it was odd an entire squadron of chess players and a swim team walked together to as they wound their way through the mall.
Outside the pool store, the crowd halted and Salacia turned to face the group with Dion at her side. "You have to stay out here," she informed them. "What I need to do with Dion has to be carried out alone between him and myself. I'm going into the office and when we return, Dion will be a Water Element Master.
Dion and Salacia Delphi went through the door to the pool store and the rest waited outside.
A few minutes later the door to the pool store opened and one of the regular sales clerks stuck out his head. "Are you all here to see Ms. Delphi?" he asked them. "I think she's going to be busy for a while. She just went into the office with someone. I couldn't tell who it was, but she closed the door which usually means it's intense and will take a while."
"We're waiting for her," Lilly let him know, "but she told us to stay here. There is something she needs to do with a friend of ours."
"Okay," he looked and saw the Naiad sisters standing around in their tracksuits. "Say, if any of you want to come back and use the demo pools, it's fine. I've had men come by all day and ask about you."
"Thank you," Cynae spoke for them, "but we'll stay here for the time being."
"So what happens inside there when he gets his full powers?" Emily asked Lilly. "You've been with Dion every day this week. Does he have to pass a test, get fingerprinted, swear an oath, what?"
"I have no idea. He's never allowed me to go in there with him. I guess it's too special for anyone else to see." It was clear from the way she spoke that Lilly found it to be an irritation she wasn't allowed inside.
"I still can't imagine what we're going to do with them all," Emily mentioned to Lilly a little later as they watched the Naiads interact with the chess club. "Didn't they say they need a large isolated body of water to thrive? Where are we going to find something around here that meets that requirement?"
"Dion seems to think there's a way to make it work," Lilly replied. "I'm not going to worry about it just yet. The boys in the chess club seem happy enough, glamor or not. And the elementals seem to like to be around them. They even know how to play chess. I heard one of them explain the rules of a game called 'go' to her guy. It should work out."
"I hope so."
An hour later, as the shadows in the parking lot grew long, Salacia Delphi and Dion emerged from the pool store. Dion had a big smile on his face, as did she.
"Congratulate the new Water Element Master!" she announced to the crowd. There was a loud applause from the group, which caused the shoppers to turn in their direction.
"So, you can now make the water elementals do what you want?" Dennis asked Dion as he walked back to his friends.
"I can do a lot, but nothing that breaks my own personal code," he explained. "I have no intention of making the Naiad sisters leave any of you."
There was a collective sigh of relief from the crowd as the chess club heard the news. There was some concern about what might happen when Dion became full master of the third element.
"Only leaves one element mastery you need to obtain," Captain Gabriel said. "You should be able to get it quick."
"I plan on being here tomorrow for that one. It's important that I obtain it because it will be the last elemental power I need before I acquire the fifth elemental ability."
"Did you see what is happening in the parking lot?" Sean said. Emily stood next to him and turned to see what he pointed at through the window.
Karanzen was back.

Chapter 14

Karanzen's officers were outside and looking in the far end of the parking lot at Dion's van. There was a tow truck already out there hooking up to it. Five of his officers were around the van attaching the jack to it while they worked to get something off it. It was a bright and sunny day outside and the group inside the mall had a clear view of what was happening.
"Looks like someone has taken an interest in your van, Dion," Dennis said. "Why would they just appear out of nowhere to mess with it? Did you not pay a ticket or something?"
"It's my old friend, Officer Karanzen. He must realize I have the third elemental power and wants to keep me from here tomorrow. It's the only thing that makes sense."
Outside, Officer Karanzen had one eye on the entrance to the mall and the other on his men who were taking care of the van. The tow truck belonged to the mall. It came in handy when a car wouldn't start or one needed to be moved.
Every now and then, someone would leave his or her car in the lot and it would sit there for a week. The mall was supposed to trace down the ownership, but it was far more trouble than the security department wanted to waste. It was much easier for the vehicle to simply disappear from the lot. There were plenty of places in Scipio where you could part out a car or truck for a decent amount of money and they knew where to find every one. Most of the time the owners of the cars didn't show up. Sometimes they were stolen and no one knew whom they belonged to if the license plates were switched. It was easier to get them off the lot and to a scrap yard.
So the mall owner's big plan had failed again? Karanzen laughed to himself. He thought he knew how to keep that kid from the Elemental Grandmasters, but every plan he'd came up with didn't work. Dion saw through every one of them somehow. The swim team plan might've worked if Dion was an average American male, but he wasn't. The security chief had to give him some credit: bringing those idiots from his high school into the mall was a stroke of pure genius. In one sweep, he'd eliminated the only rival he had in the water elementals and increased his own group in size and capacity. Too bad he hadn't had that kid in Korea, he might've returned with the men under his command, but it was best not to think about that place.
Karanzen had watched the second plan bungle when the mall owner sent out another wave of water elementals after the first plan failed. At least there was a fallback plan, too bad it didn't work. He's sat and watched on the security cameras as the group of three nymphs rounded up the couples who were wandering around the mall. They took them to that aquarium supply place which only opened up yesterday. He was surprised to see them apprehend the pool storeowner. He almost bet against Dion succeeding when he entered the aquarium store. However, he'd emerged victorious as ever when everyone strolled out of it less than an hour later. The place had been locked against intruders; the real owner couldn't get inside it and was on her way down to see him when the doors opened.
Minutes later his phone had rang and he received the go ahead to do it his way. About time. Just that he couldn't keep them out the last two days was no reason to let them in today. It was the mall owner's idea to stage the fake barricade at the mall entrance this morning and make them think they'd entered the mall by their own subterfuge. He was supposed to hang back and let Mr. Big's fiendish plan flawlessly execute. Although the flashback to Korea hadn't been part of the plan, but it gave him the cover he needed. His men still thought an 'episode' was why he'd allowed the kids into the mall today.
"You ready to tow this thing off, Boss?" It was Izzy behind the wheel of the tow truck. He was anxious to wrap things up for the day and head home.
"Just hang tight," Karanzen told him. "I need an excuse to call the cops. Little punk comes out here and gives me some lip; I'll have all I need to have him arrested."
"I still say you should just call them anyway and worry about a reason later," one of the other security officers said to him. "I'm sure we could find something to plant in this van. Don't you have all kinds of fun things in that safe in the office?'
"Shut up!" Karanzen snapped at him. The safe was common knowledge among the guards, but he didn't like them talking about it. "We're going to do this my way and avoid any problems down the road. The cops will make the arrest and he'll be banned from the mall forever."

"This is another one I need to handle on my own," Dion told his crew. "Everyone stay put and I'll go out there and find out what they are up to. I don't need any of you getting into trouble on my account. Just watch from the window in case I need some kind of a witness later."
"You should let us go with you," Cynae said.
"Just stay here," he told them. "I can handle this one myself. I have three of the four full elemental powers. I don't expect there is anything they can do to me now I can't stop."
"I think he's too sure of himself," Captain Gabriel said to Salacia as he watched Dion walk down the corridor to the parking lot. "Too many things out there that can go wrong. I think he's really walking into a trap this time."
"Probably," she agreed. "But we'll have to let him find a way out of it himself. If he's truly going to be the one to gain the fifth elemental mastery, he'll need to be able to do it by himself."
The Naiad sisters were pushing up to the window to get a good look at the action in the parking lot. Their chess club boyfriends were doing the same, but neither of them had any clue as to what the security guards planned outside in the parking lot. All they could see was the uniformed men around Dion's van in the distance.
Lilly was worried and at the window with the rest of them. There was still a quick exit to the parking lot on their side of the building, but it wasn't supposed to be used unless for emergencies. How Dion had opened it to allow the air elemental sylph out without setting off the alarm still puzzled her. Usually the alarm would howl the moment anyone pushed down on the handle.
Sean and Emily were behind the rest of them. They wanted to see how this all ended too. Sean had watched Dion perform some biblical miracles and had no doubt he could handle it all himself. Still, no one knew what might happen out there.
"You've done very well for yourself," the captain said to his ex-wife as they watched Dion leave to meet the uniformed committee at his van. "People tell me you own all kinds of businesses in this town. Does your skill come from being an Elemental Grandmaster?"
"No, it comes from knowing how to get the best deal. And how to take care of the customer."
"So, did you have the elementals scheduled to sell pools for your today or was that a coincidence?" She stood very close to him.
"A little of both. I'd planned to have some models come out and told the sales staff about my idea. When the sisters appeared they assumed it was who I was talking about."
"Worked out pretty good for you."
"All you have to do is set up the right conditions, the rest follows."
"Let's hope Dion is walking into the right condition."

Karanzen watched the doors to the mall. He had to be out here soon. He knew the kid was inside with his little gang observing everything. How could he miss it? The van was in plain view of the mall. He kept a watch on the doors right until the moment they opened and Dion appeared.
It wasn't very dramatic. One moment shoppers were going in and out of the mall, the next Dion was slowly walking down the concrete toward him. He didn't have anger in his face, or so it seemed from the distance, just puzzlement. Karanzen was certain it would change when they told him the van contained 'controlled substances'. If he were like any other Midwestern kid, even a transplant such as Dion would lose control, which would give them all the authority they needed to impound him as well. His aunt and uncle would be forced to pick him up after they paid the bail bondsmen, since he was now a legal adult. And he would never have to worry about that punk being in his mall again. The mall owner would be forced to admit Karanzen was right all along and would no longer bother him about security.

Dion stopped two car lengths away from the security chief and his men. He'd left the map inside with Lilly just to be safe. There was one more section of the mall he needed to visit tomorrow and then the clock tower in the center. This was simply an attempt to keep him out tomorrow and ban him from the mall. Of course, Karanzen didn't need a reason to keep him out, but it looked bad if he didn't attempt to justify what he did.
"Why do you have a tow truck around my van?" Dion asked him. "I don't recall I did anything wrong inside the mall today." He stood his ground and made sure Karanzen was a safe distance away.
"Shoplifting is a crime, Dion," Karanzen called out to him. "We had a report someone was using a van to haul merchandise they hadn't paid for and we decided to investigate. We found all kinds of goods in the back of it you hadn't paid for. Now we're going to haul the van off and impound it. I'm afraid you won't be allowed to come back here again."
"Is that the best you can do, Officer Karanzen?" Dion called back to him. "Plant fake evidence in my van? I would expect you'd be much more creative. Perhaps my uncle has misjudged your abilities."
"Your uncle seems to have some trouble reeling you in. It's up to me to show him how to do it right. Now go away before we have to call the police."
"I wouldn't touch that van," Dion called across the lot to him. "I advise you to just leave it alone and go back inside the mall."
"What are you going to do? Send some of your girlfriends on the swim team out here to interfere. Just get out of here and get a ride home, Dion. You are banned from the mall."
Dion looked at the sky. It would take too long to get the elementals to bring the clouds over the parking lot. Even if he could find ones who wouldn't have to be bound to help him. He needed another way to bring this to an end without causing too much damage. As far as he could see, it left one thing he could do.
The creek, which ran near the mall, had never been very large. It fed into the local river, which wound its way down to the larger Ohio River, to the Mississippi River and from there into the sea. It was underground in a metal culvert most of the time and flowed under the highway. However, it still ran open next to the parking lot at the mall. The local water control board insisted it be maintained to control run-off and not flood the streets when the mall was constructed. It was hidden by a strategically planted grove of trees, which boarded the parking lot. It still provided plenty of water when it rained. After the recent spring showers, the creek water reached up to the banks.
It provided a nice home for the water elementals, which was all Dion needed.
Dion closed his eyes and felt them swimming in the water, invisible to most people, but now so easy for him to see and control with his new powers. Still, he needed to persuade them to come and help. They didn't care much for the men who'd dumped sand and gravel in their creek. Dion only needed to make a few promises to get their help.
The sound came from the edge of the parking lot and caused Karanzen and his men to turn their heads in its direction. They couldn't see what caused it because it came from the other side of the tree line. It was a bubbling noise, similar to a sink overflowing. The sound increased in pitch and the tow truck driver shut the engine down to hear it better. Now they could see what the cause was.
Water overflowed from the creek banks. They could see it rising as it flowed across from the tree line and in their direction across the field. The water bubbled up and poured at them as it pushed loose dirt and soil toward in front of it. The security guards stopped what they were doing with the van and walked to Karanzen with a look of fear in their eyes.
Now the water flowed into the parking lot and across the asphalt. It came as a stream, which had changed directions. Although the parking lot had drains to take care of sudden downpours, it was impossible for them to manage this intense lake which had materialized in the outer edge of the lot. The security guards looked down and saw the water cover their boots. This was no longer something they could sit back and survey. The shoppers who entered and left the mall stood and watched the pool form in the midst where their cars were parked.
And it was even worse because there was not a cloud in the sky. Dion had sent the few away to make it clear to Karanzen and his men why the water flowed into the parking lot.
"You can stop the lot and mall from flooding," Dion told him. "All you have to do is unhook your tow truck from my van and get away from it."
Before Karanzen could issue a command, the security guards scampered over the van to detach the truck from it. The driver of the tow truck jumped into it and dropped the wench slowly so there would be no damage to the van. Once the front wheels of the van rested on the ground, he waded through the water and helped two more guards unlatch the hook from the front bumper of the van. Still up to their ankles in water, they reattached the spare tire compartment in back, which, in their zeal, they'd taken off as a trophy.
Finally, the tow truck driver gunned the engine and drove it as far away from the van as he could get. Water sprayed into the air as the wheels of the truck sent it into the sky.
Dion closed his eyes again and had a brief conversation with the elementals that lived in the creek. They were disappointed over what he wanted them to do right now, but they'd had their fun for the day.
The water began to flow back to the creek. It reversed its direction and swept back across the lot. In a few minutes, the lake, which was in formation in the parking lot, was gone. The look of relief on the faces at the windows of the mall was evident.
Karanzen glared at Dion. "You still need one more power," he snarled at him. "Just try and get in here tomorrow." He stomped off through the parking lot, his wet boots making noise as they slapped on the damp parking lot.
Dion looked at the entrance of the mall and watched his friends emerge. Lilly was right out in front, followed by Sean and Emily. Behind them came Dennis and the chess club, with the Naiad sisters. Captain Gabriel and Salacia were still inside looking out from the windows.
I suppose you will try to keep me out tomorrow, Dion thought. I need to master the fire element before I can tackle the fifth one. We'll see what happens then.


- THE END -



Part 4 - FIRE



Chapter 1


The security guards spent the entire morning and worked their way through the parking lot, checking over every car and truck that arrived early. They took up positions at all the entrances to make sure no one that pulled into the lot. There was only one person they needed to keep out. After the previous day's confrontation with Dion and his elemental abilities, they had no desire to repeat the mistakes made the days before. They were under strict orders to keep him out, or else.
Officer Karanzen stood watch in the parking lot and checked every car coming in for the early shift. Although the mall didn't officially open until ten in the morning, there were plenty of people who needed to get there by eight to start work. He knew it would be impossible to check every car once the shoppers arrived in force. Right now, he had the opportunity to catch Dion and whomever he brought along, if the kid came early. He'd been there early every other day, so Karanzen expected him to be there long before the mall doors opened for the day.
Today, Dion needed to find the last elemental grandmaster and obtain full authority for this final ability: fire. Karanzen knew that a failure to stop him this time would mean the end of his term of service at the mall. The owner and builder of the mall, Seth Bach, had employed him for the express purpose of keeping Dion out. He'd give him powers normal people knew nothing about. These powers could be taken away with ease and Karanzen would find himself back in the same wretched state he'd been in previously. He wasn't about to end up where he'd been prior to the mall.
Something began to bother Karanzen about his security guards. He'd handpicked every one of them based on their references and applications. They all appeared to be good men who knew how to do the job and take direction. However, something seemed a little odd about all of them. They claimed to have a life outside their jobs, but seldom spoke about what they did. The mall housed them in one large group home in the nearby town of Scipio and they drove into work at the same time. He needed to go back and look at those applications on file. He'd do that the first opportunity he had.
So far, they'd found no sign of Dion or any of his friends. Last night Dion had driven off in the van the security guards tried to impound. Then the creek suddenly overflowed. It was impossible to deny Dion had caused the creek to run over its banks. Dion had received his third elemental full power authority from Salacia Delphi, the woman who owned the pool supply store.
Karanzen had his men impound the young man's van and was ready to kick him out of the mall permanently when the water began to pour across the parking lot from the nearby creek. The drainage system was supposed to handle overflows of such a large nature, but it didn't. It wasn't until they unhooked his van from the tow truck the water began to recede.
Dion had waited for his friends to emerge from the mall and join him before he left. Karanzen had watched him leave the parking lot in the van. The security chief stood in place and seethed in his rage. There wasn't anything he could do but vow the kid would never set foot in this mall again.
He went back to his office.
The phone rang, but Karanzen knew who it was before he even picked up the receiver.
"He has the full power on the third element," the voice on the phone said to him. "How are you going to keep him from obtaining the fourth?" It was Seth Bach, Dion's uncle. The man didn't have to introduce himself. By now, Karanzen was familiar with the sound of his employer's voice.
"First of all" Karanzen said. "I am going to keep him out of the mall parking lot. He won't even be able to enter it. The first time any of my men see that van of his, they will be instructed to block it from the entrance. I'll tell the local cops that there is a shoplifting suspect whom we expect to try to gain entrance to the mall. They can handle him from there on out."
"Not a good idea," the voice responded. "I don't need the trouble with the local police it would cause. They only put up with this mall because of the tax revenue it brings into the community."
"Fine. You told me to keep him out and I might've been able to do that yesterday. However, your plan to get him in here with those water babies didn't work out so well. Now let me do it my way and we'll keep him out of the mall. Permanently."
"Your method to stop him yesterday didn't work out so well either."
"By then, he was already in the mall. He had the third elemental power. You want me to keep him from the fourth, let me handle it. Let me do what you pay me to do."
"Just keep him out. He obtains full power for the fourth, we might as well forget about this place." The phone call came to an end.
The easy way to do this, Karanzen knew, was to issue an APB to the police and have them pick the kid up. Eventually, he'd give up and quit trying to get inside the mall. Why Dion had to meet the elemental grandmasters here inside the mall was something Karanzen didn't understand. Wouldn't it have been just as easy to follow them home? Heck, Dion could have simply called them up and agreed to meet them somewhere else. If there was a rule about obtaining full powers only at the mall, Karanzen hadn't been informed.
Karanzen planned to have a significant number of his men in the parking lot checking out tags until noon. By that time he figured Dion and company would be apprehended, unless he had not planned to show. No problem, he'd do the same thing every day until he had him or the kid stopped his attempts to enter the mall.
This time he wasn't getting into the mall. Karanzen had let most part of his defense that allowed him to appear normal around mortals. This enabled him to sense any element workers in the parking lot or outside the mall. So far, nothing. So long as no one looked at him too close, he didn't have to worry. Right now, the place was clear, so perhaps the kid wasn't coming at all.
The Naiad sisters sat on the edge of the creek bank and watched as the security guards checked out all the cars in the lot for signs of Dion. It was still very early and they would have to cease their activity once the regular shoppers began to arrive at the Fromatius Mall. Right now, they could spend the time walking through the lot and examining the contents of each car to see if Dion or any of his friends was concealed inside them.
Karanzen knew the van hadn't arrived and he didn't expect Dion to try that line of attack again. However, he was still determined to keep his young foe away from the mall by any means he could. If he'd been allowed, Karanzen would've paid Dion a personal visit at his aunt and uncle's home. However, he was limited by what Dion's Uncle Seth, who owned the mall, would allow him.

Chapter 2

Appias, still splashing around in the muddy creek water, turned to her sister. "You think they'll eventually figure out Dion is already inside the mall?"
"I doubt it," she responded while braiding her hair, "Even if they do, it won't be until the mall is open."
The creek was partially blocked from the mall by a grove of trees, which allowed them to watch the activity in the parking lot. The Naiad sisters shed their clothes last night when they entered the water of the stream since there was no longer any reason to pretend to be mortal women. Cynae, the eldest, had a long talk with her younger sisters about what was appropriate in the presence of humans, regardless if they were bonded to them or not. Each had chosen one of the Dion's chess club buddies for themselves. They were bound to the young men.
For his part, Dion had a long talk with his friends after the Naiads had stripped off their clothes and swam into the creek. Their long hair served as the only bit of clothing they had while in their natural form, save whatever shells and other objects they decided to use for decoration.
"Your girlfriends are not human," Dion told them as they watched the girls play in the water. "You will always be able to see them, but most of the time; they will be invisible to normal people. Keep in mind that they have different standards of adornment and will not be easy to take around your parents. As for how you met your girlfriends, just tell your families you found her at the mall and I introduced you to them. You can come here every day to see your girl; just don't spend too much time around here."
"And don't keep me waiting too long!" Dirce called to Dennis from the water as she blew him a kiss. Her long hair flowed about her and formed a halo in the moonlight.
Dion could see the pain in his friend's face. This was going to cause many problems. It was his idea to introduce the water elementals to the chess club members. Dion needed to sabotage his uncle's plans to keep him away from the Water Element Grandmaster. Now that he had full water element abilities, he could order the Naiads to lift the glamor they'd put on the chess club. However, to do that would create a problem worse than the love sickness, which plagued the young men.
After he allowed them to say their goodbyes, Dion made certain the guys were loaded into cars and sent home. He even stood in the parking lot to ensure the chess club didn't try to come back.
"I need you all up early," he told his three companions. As usual, Sean and Emily were curled up in the back seat of Dion's van.
"You've created a whole new set of problems with the chess club," Lilly said to him as she reached over and touched Dion. "Still, the Naiads are the perfect match for those boys. Neither group wants much to do with the outside world. I'm dying to see the look on everyone's face when they show up at the prom with those girls."
"I'll see about disguising the girls as another chess club," Dion said. "At least this will provoke fewer questions from people. It's just believable they might be a foreign chess club, but not a local swim team. That one stretches what I can get everyone to believe."
The next morning, Dion picked up everyone the same way he'd done the day before. This time he pulled up where the willow tree stood near Emily's house, as he knew she'd be under it with Sean. The two became quite an item after their mutual encounter with the air elementals. They were involved with each other and barely heard him pull up in the van.
It was still cold when they slammed the door on his van and pulled out of the driveway. Sean's mother still hadn't figured out he was seeing Emily and that was just fine with Sean. Emily's father knew about Sean but had yet to meet him. Right now, the quest was all Dion could think about. Once he'd obtained the fourth elemental power, he could do whatever he needed to accomplish. He could free his parents from the clock tower in the middle of the mall where his uncle held them prisoner. However, to do that he would need another ability: the fifth elemental power.
It was hundreds of years since an elemental worker had obtained this power. Hundreds of years since any one of them could manifest the power of the aether, the fifth element from which the source of the others was located. His uncle had obtained the power of the fifth element and used it to control those around him. He had the power, but not that of the four before it. If Dion gained this dominion, combined with the power of the first four elements, he would be stronger than his uncle.
Like the others, the fourth grandmaster ran a shop inside the mall. All had set up operations inside the mall, even though they knew who had built the place and that it was located over the abyss. Today, he planned to be a fully qualified Fire Master. All he needed to do was reach the Fire Element Grandmaster.
Early in the morning, before dawn had broken over the horizon, Dion parked his van on the other side the grove of trees. This was where the creek ran between concrete conduits to carry its water to the river. It was hard to see and Dion realized the county would eventually force this small stream into an underground pipe as well. Too many risks involved with people falling into it and drowning. He'd heard stories in school of parties involving campfires down below the hill, just at the banks of the stream. It was only a matter of time before someone fell in. The county would be blamed for allowing this situation to take place.
He pulled the van into the woods next to the stream where it would not be seen in the daytime. This was another spot known the high school students where you could go if you wanted some privacy. Dion opened the door and kicked away four brown bottles on the ground. This was recent. He'd have to be back before sunset today because it meant whoever left the bottles planned on returning this evening.
"You think it's safe to leave it here?" Lilly asked him as they stepped out of the van. Seconds later, Sean and Emily joined them. They too looked on in disgust at the trash on the ground.
"It will be safe until this evening," Dion told her. "I obtain my final fire elemental power; we won't have to worry about coming back here again. And we won't have to worry about much of anything after I have the fifth elemental full ability."
Lilly squeezed his hand.

"Hello, Dion," the Naiad sisters greeted him as the stepped down to the bank on the stream.
Dion consulted his map as soon as he left the van and discovered the best way to enter the mall without being seen was to travel down the stream and enter a concrete pipe.
"Hello, Ladies," he responded to them as the water elementals surfaced on the bank in front of him. They appeared in their natural form as beautiful young women covered by their long hair. Not hard to believe the sailors of old risked disaster on encountering them. Even his friends tried not to stare at what was in front of them.
"Are you comfortable down here?" he asked. "I know it's not as isolated as your rock in the ocean, but I didn't think you would be disturbed too often."
"We miss our boyfriends already," Dirce told him. "And we scared people last night." She was the first one to fall for a local boy yesterday and her sisters followed as a matter of course.
"Scared them off too," Cynae, added. "They came down here to be alone and didn't expect to find us sitting on the bank."
"I didn't think they could see you," Emily said, holding Sean's hand.
"Only if we don't want them to see us," another one of the Naiads told her. "By the time they were down here we didn't notice them. Guess we gave them quite a scare because they took off quick."
"Which reminds us," Cynae asked. "When are our boys coming back? We are so very lonely in this place."
"Give them another day," Dion told the elementals. "And don't go find them, although I know you could do it.
"Why not?" Cynae asked him.
First of all, you'll scare people. Second, they need time to work up cover stories for all of you. Keep in mind you were the ones who put the glamor on them."
"But they were so cute," Ismene, the youngest one of them, said. "We couldn't help ourselves."

Dion had spent some time the evening before talking with his aunt and uncle about what might happen today. They were understanding and concerned about him. His uncle wanted to help, but Dion let them both know that he had to do it with his own abilities. His friends would be there for him, but they were only to assist and not find the elemental grandmaster for him.
"Fire," his uncle Rich repeated to himself several times. "You're going after the most dangerous of the four today. Be careful. My brother will have salamanders ready."
"Salamanders?" his aunt asked, as she tossed her hair back. "How dangerous can salamanders be? I step on them all the time by the wood pile."
"Different kind of salamander," his uncle explained. "Fire elemental salamanders. They can burn down anything in their path. They're almost little dragons. Be careful, Dion."
"I intend to be careful," Dion told him. "Besides, I have Cynae and her water elemental sisters to back me up if it gets out of control."
"A lot of good she'll do you if the salamanders unleash flames before they can arrive. I've seen those things do some serious damage to buildings. I still see them dance in the flames of burning wood. They're everywhere."
Dion assured his aunt and uncle he would proceed with caution, then showed them some of his new abilities by causing miniature tornadoes in the back yard and summoned a waterspout in the swimming pool.
"I know," he told him. "Parlor tricks any stage performer can accomplish, but wait till I have the fifth elemental ability. Then I'll have my parents back for sure."

"One more ability to go," Dion reminded Lilly that evening as she took her home. "Then the fifth elemental power and my uncle will not be able to stop me from freeing my parents."
He pulled into the driveway to Lilly's house and killed the engine. They could hear the sounds of the neighborhood in the darkness: radios, TV's, parents calling to children. A thousand different lives lived in a thousand different realities. It was still early spring, but the air was warm enough for most people to open their windows and let the fresh breezes into the homes. Most of the houses were built on a single plane with a basement if they could afford one. A few houses had fireplaces and some had them in the basement too. Most of the houses were built twenty years ago in the big rush that accompanied the end of World War 2. Plans were in the works for another express ramp to connect the next suburban cluster to the city of Scipio.
Lilly touched Dion's hand. "Will you want any of us to help you when you get your parents out?"
"That is one I have to do totally by myself. I can't risk taking any of you with me when I go into that clock tower. It's too dangerous. I don't know if the map works inside it. Only my uncle knows what is inside the tower. He should since he built it."
Dion turned to Lilly and wanted to tell her how much he appreciated her being around him. She'd been quiet through most of their adventures together and he didn't feel it was right to keep her involved in his quest to obtain all his elemental powers.
However, the moment he opened his mouth a B-52 bomber flew over the neighborhood. He could hear it coming and closed his mouth. All through the neighborhood, people would place their phones down or groan because now they'd be unable to hear their favorite show for the next sixty seconds. This one was low and the ground rumbled as it passed overhead. It was a reminder to him that no matter how deadly the forces controlled by his uncle might be, there were deadlier forces at work in the world. Dion was told a nuclear explosion was one of the few places you could see the elementals of the fifth element dance.

Emily and Sean were still under the willow tree an hour after Dion had dropped them off that evening. There was a bench beneath it where they sat entwined around each other. Emily had watched the light come on in the living room after Dion dropped them off. She'd observed her father come to the window and stare at her with disapproval. She knew he really didn't have anything to worry about, but he was still her father. She wondered how he'd take the news.
"I'd think your mother would be happy to learn you were going to get married," she whispered in his ear. "I think my dad will be happy to hear it."
"She'll give me a lot of grief," he told her. "She always does."
"It's not like we're the only couple planning to get married upon graduation," she returned. "I know of four others who have made plans. My grandmother was married when she was sixteen."
"Your grandmother was brought over from Romania," he reminded her. "Didn't you say your grandfather sent a letter and some money to his brothers in Bucharest and told him to go find him a suitable girl?"
"Yeah? So what is wrong with that? They're still married after sixty years."
"Because she never did learn English and stays in the house. Ouch!"
Emily pushed him to one side. What was wrong with him? He'd pledged his eternal love to her yesterday and she to him. Was it fading already? It seemed like they were in some kind of a movie, which continued to repeat itself over and over again with these trips back to the mall. One more trip tomorrow and then?
Dion had the previous evening on his mind when he led his friends down the bank to the secret entrance into the mall's subbasement. It was still dark, so they were forced to be careful about where to step. Even with the Naiads in the water splashing around, they still had to avoid any slippery parts of the embankment.
"I'll bet you wish I was a water nymph," he overheard Emily say to Sean. "That way you could keep me in your mother's fishpond."
"Naiad!" he heard a voice call from the water. "Don't forget we want to be called Naiads."
"Naiad," she corrected herself. "He'd like to have me quiet and some place where I wouldn't be a bother."
"Emily," Sean repeated to her. "Sweetheart, we have the rest of our lives to be together. Let's not get started off the wrong way."
"Lives?" Lilly said to them. "Does that mean what I think it does?"
"Yes it does," Emily said. "We're pre-engaged."
"You have to get a ring for that?" Dion stopped his transit and looked at them. What on earth had he provoked by keeping those too around him? Lilly turned and sighed at him with her big browns too. A few minutes away from the entrance and his companions were discussing marriage. What was this world coming to?
"Yes," Sean said to him. "Didn't you hear?"
"They just started selling them at the big jewelry store downtown," Emily let them both know. "I'm sure we can find a place in the mall to sell one. Right, Sean?"
Sean leaned over and kissed her. "Let's get Dion through his quest first, and then I'll find you the pretty ring."
"Pretty ring? Pretty rings?" he heard the Naiads echo from the stream. Any discussion of shiny objects attracted their attention. "We get pretty rings from our boys too?"
"Now see what you started?" Dion laughed. "We get through this and the chess club will be furious at me."

Chapter 3

The entrance to the mall loomed ahead, just next to the culvert where the stream continued on its passage to the river. A small wall was built from concrete and stone next to the pipe to keep out accidental swimmers. A gate ran across the front of the pipe, but it was unlocked and swung open when the figure that stood watch over it saw Dion approach. It was difficult to see who stood next to the gate. Lilly put her hand over her mouth when she saw the form of a ghoul still in his cleaner uniform. Two more stood next to him.
"Don't worry," Dion told her. "They work for me now. They have ever since I acquired full earth elemental powers."
Still with bad memories from her experiences with the ghouls the first time around, Emily shivered and hid behind Sean as they passed by them. The ghouls waited until Dion and his friends were inside the ledge of the concrete pipe and then fastened the gate behind them. One scampered over to the ledge and opened a hidden door on the side of the concrete pipe. He produced a flashlight and shined it into the passage inside it.
Dion led the way and continued into it with his friends behind him.
The ghoul cleaner with the flashlight stayed in front as his two companions locked the door again. It would be a long trip down the passage into the subbasement of the mall, but they were inside the perimeter. The security team could do all it wanted to keep him out of the parking lot, but Dion was inside the mall, no matter how far from the main shopping area. It would be another task to find the Fire Elemental Grandmaster.
The tunnel was quiet and no one said a word during the long walk to the subbasement. Lilly held tightly onto Dion's hand. Sean and Emily stayed close together and as near as they could to Dion. There were no lights in this part of the tunnel and, should the one flashlight be extinguished, they would have no way to find their way out. The only sound anyone could hear was the slow drip of condensation from the top of the tunnel. It was very damp inside the tunnel and it had to have been built as a secret access point during the recent mall construction. The concrete walls were too fresh and appeared to be poured in sections. This meant that Dion's Uncle Seth knew about the secret entrance to the mall.
The moment Sean decided to say something was the moment the tunnel came to an end. Before he could say a word, the door to the mall appeared before them. The ghoul in front produced a key and unlocked it. He swung the door open and placed a pair of mirror shades over his eyes. Sean glanced back and saw the other two ghouls also put on their shades. It occurred to him this was the first time he'd seen the ghouls without their mirrorshades. He knew the bright light hurt their eyes, but they had good vision in the dark.
"They see into the infrared spectrum," Dion explained as he noticed Sean watch the ghouls place their shades on. "However, too much light of any kinds throws off their balance and hurts their equilibrium."
They were in a small room next to a ladder. The room was made of poured concrete and led upwards through an opening in the ceiling. The room where they had emerged had very little light inside it. The ghouls opened the door next to them, which led to the ghoul's part of the subbasement, and went inside. The last ghoul stopped and waited until Dion handed him some coins. Then he joined the others and left the humans inside the antechamber to the rest of the subbasement.
It was a brief climb up the ladder to the next level. Here they found a larger utility room with rows of chart data recorders that monitored the electrical power of the mall. It was still underground, but was directly under the red, or fire element, part of the mall. Dion pulled out his map and laid it on a desk. He pushed aside several rolls of blueprints left over from the contractors who built the mall. There was plenty of light in this section and his companions elected to sit down on several chairs next to the table.
"Are we close to the main floor?" Lilly asked him as she watched Dion pour over the map given to him by Mr. Jehuti. The map was special and changed its display of what stores were rented and which were available for merchants. It had a complete listing of the power lines, which ran through the mall and displayed all the internal access tunnels. It even displayed special passageways through the mall that could change their entrance and exit points if you knew how to work them. The map was priceless and given to Dion with the strict understanding it was never to fall out of his possession. Of course, the forces that wanted to keep him from locating the elemental grandmasters had taken possession of it several times, but Dion managed to get it back each time.
"We're right under it," he told her. "At least according to the map. All we have to do is find the passage in the next room to our right and take it up to the next level. We'll emerge right behind an escalator and no one should notice us this time of day. All we need to do is find the Grandmaster and then we can all go home."
"Sounds easy enough," Emily said to him. "All we have to do is follow your plan and it will all go smooth. Why don't I believe it will happen the way you just outlined?"
"Because it never does," Sean said. "One of those things you can guarantee about this quest. But I have assurance in Dion getting us through it all."
"I'm glad to hear that," Dion said as he studied the map. He rolled it up and placed it in the jean jacket he'd worn every day. "At least we know where we are in this place. I'd hate to be forced to find my way around here without this map."
"One thing I did want to ask you," Emily brought up. Today she'd dressed casually in a jean skirt with sandals and a tube top under a sweater. Sean had worn his thick boots just in case they were needed.
"What's that?" Sean said. He took Lilly's hand and felt how nervous she was today for some reason. Why was she so quiet?
"Where do you find your way around on the map? You don't have a compass with you, do you?"
"The map knows true north. There is a directional sigil in one corner which always tells me where to point the map so it orients correctly. Maybe someday all maps will come with one, just not from an elemental source."
He finished his speech when the air in front of them began to swirl. Lilly jumped back and Sean grabbed Emily for protection. Dion faced the swirl and closed his eyes. He didn't have any control over this elemental, which meant it was one of his uncle's. It didn't feel to be an aether elemental, which meant this was a fire spirit. In the enclosed space, this was not good as there was no source of water he could unleash on it if the thing was sent to do them harm. He found enough air slypes in the big room to blow it out if he needed to, but it was best to see what this thing wanted before he did anything else.
The swirl turned into a flame, which fused into the image of a small figure. Because it was burning, the fire creature didn't have a steady form. This one couldn't be a salamander; it had to be another, less powerful elemental. Dion stood his ground and decided to see what it would do before sending the sylphs against it.
"Dion Bach?" the creature spoke. "I am addressing Dion Bach?"
"You are," he confirmed and waited. All it would take would be one command to blow it out, but too much oxygen at once on the fire had the possibility of sending it out of control. "What do you want?"
"Your uncle wanted me to tell you that he's willing to release your parents if you transfer all your powers to him."
So this was the reason for the small fire elemental. Dion's uncle realized he was inside the mall and couldn't be stopped. He was desperate to make the trade. But Dion knew that if he gave his uncle those powers, no force on Earth could stop him. He would be giving the launch codes of a nuclear missile to a mad man, someone who craved unlimited power.
"No deal," Dion told the fire spirit. "Tell my uncle he is to release my parents at once before I will consider any further deals with him." Dion stayed on his guard. He felt the air sylphs gather around him, ready to pounce if given the command.
"I will relay your message," the fire being told him. The burning image slowly disappeared and was replaced by a pile of ash on the floor.
"So what was that about?" Emily asked Dion. "I was worried for a few minutes that we had a real problem on our hands."
"It was one of the smaller elementals. They make good messengers if you can keep them from burning things down. My uncle employed that one to make me an offer. He won't like the answer I sent, but it's his problem, not mine."
"He knows we're here," Lilly said.
"That is evident," agreed Dion. "We simply need to figure out a way to get into the rest of the mall without drawing too much attention to ourselves. We'll be forced to take a direct route."
"Now that you've seen a fire elemental, what do you plan to use against them?" a voice called from across the room.
They turned to face the sound as a figure stepped out from behind a stack of wooden crates. They hadn't noticed him when they entered the room, as he remained hidden when the four friends crawled up the ladder. The light was faint in that part of the room, but they could see his outline and there was no question whom it was. He was recognizable even in a set of overalls with a baseball cap stuck firmly on his head. The only thing he lacked was a toolbox in one hand.
"Hello, Edward," Dion greeted him. "I expected to see you sometime today, just not so soon. I like the new outfit."
"I don't," the little man replied. "They told me I needed to fit in better this time. I wanted my cricket uniform, but they wouldn't let me use that one. So here I am."
Edward was a mysterious little Englishman who appeared at various times on the quest to give and offer help. He couldn't give them too much information and he wouldn't do the work for them, but he was useful. He wouldn't say where he was from, but it had to be outside their particular time circle. He wouldn't even say who he worked for or which side he represented.
"Does this mean you'll be around longer than you usually are?" Sean asked him.
"Regrettably so," he told them. "They told me this was the last time I was allowed to make an appearance. I have no idea where they plan to send me next, but I hope the place has ice cream. It was the one thing I liked about this assignment. Now, do you have any idea what can neutralize a salamander?"
"One of the fire ones?" Emily asked him.
"Of course."
"You are going to need a censer to counter them, "Edward explained. "I'm sure you will be able to find one around here someplace."
"Censor what?" Sean asked.
"Wrong kind," Edward explained. "I mean the kind you see the priest swing in a church."
"I'm Baptist," Sean said.
Edward shook his head and grumbled about Protestants and their lack of tradition. "It's a small object which hangs from a chain that you put hot coals inside. Incense goes inside it to improve the smell of the church."
"Oh, like an incense burner," Sean concluded.
"You do have some idea about what I'm describing. The one you need is from the sixteenth century Island of Malta and has the ability to bind fire elemental salamanders. You need to invoke them into the censer and bind them in place or they'll all over your house. Fire salamanders can be very dangerous as things catch on fire around them."
"I'll keep that in mind."
"The other things you're likely to need are fire opals. The fire salamanders are attracted to them and will go out of their way to acquire one. You can't lure them out as you did the earth elementals on the electric bull. They are a lot more difficult and will incinerate anyone who gets too close to them."
"So how do we handle them?" Lilly questioned Edward. "If they are so dangerous, how are we supposed to get close enough to bind them?"
"You don't handle them at all. You keep a good distance and don't allow them to approach you. If they consume too much fuel, they'll burn themselves out. You can starve them for oxygen and they'll go dormant, but hard to set up that kind of condition."
"Will they have human form?" Emily asked. "Every other elemental we've encountered has come to us in human form."
"I don't think there is any other way for them to function in the mall," Edward said. "I've seen them released as balls of fire, but they tend to go out of control when that happens. They can hang onto their human form so long as the person who binds them issues the command. You can always tell they are around because the atmosphere around them rises in temperature."
They talked for another hour as Edward described the kinds of jewels needed to control fire elementals besides the ones he'd told them about. He told them about the risk involved in combining fire opals inside a censer and how to trap a fire elemental inside it. Only so many fire elementals could be contained inside a censer. If too many were place inside one, they could turn the wielder into a flaming torch when they were released.
Edward pulled out his pocket watch on a chain and looked at it. "Oh dear," he observed. "Time is up, I need to go. Take care my pretties." And then he vanished.
"Guess we learned a few things," Sean said. "Wish he could've stayed around longer."
"I hope to see him again," Dion said. "I don't think he has much more time he can allot to me." Dion returned to his map. It took him a few more minutes to find an entrance into the mall.

Chapter 4

Karanzen had left the parking lot to his team and returned to his office near the clock tower in the mall. He'd been outside all morning checking the perimeter for any sign of Dion or his friends. Each of his men was issued a picture of the van and told to summon him if they even suspected it was on the lot. Officer Karanzen was finished with halfway measures. This time he intended to stop the van the moment it was near the lot and pull Dion out of it. He still had the ability to summon elementals, but Karanzen had a few tricks to keep him under control. He didn't want to use them this late in the day when shoppers were in the lot and headed to the entrance of the mall.
But the morning was uneventful. No sign anywhere of Dion and company. If he planned to get his final ability, it had to be today, this much Karanzen knew for sure. He'd been on the phone with Seth Back, Dion's uncle, who was very disappointed his chief of security had failed for the third time in as many days. He couldn't afford to lose another opportunity. The big man suggested that one more slip up would be his last. Karanzen had no desire to return to living in a van or running cheap roadhouses for sleazy operators. He liked his current position and planned to keep hold of it.
"Just so you know," Seth Bach informed him that evening. "Dion only needs to be kept away from the mall tomorrow. I have set some plans into motion which will keep him away permanently if you can keep him out tomorrow. Can you do that much?"
"Of course," Karanzen replied. "I can do more than that. If you would allow me to involve the local cops...."
"Under no circumstances. I want him out of the way, but I don't need anyone asking questions and snooping around my mall. Is that clear?"
"Very clear, sir. I'll have the men all over the parking lot tomorrow morning."
"I said no problems," his boss cut him off. "Don't scare the customers away from the shopping. Their money is what keeps this place open."
"As you say. I'll have some reason for them to be out there. We'll tell people they're checking for stolen property. There's always ways to make it work."
He heard the phone line on the other end disconnect and placed the receiver down on the cradle. Karanzen ran his hand through what was left of his hair and tried to think hard. How had that kid managed to bring the water over the parking lot yesterday with such ease? It had to come from the creek. Now this meant he had some connection with whatever lived in the creek. It would be more difficult than he cared to think about to keep him under control. Of course, if he achieved his final power tomorrow, it really wouldn't matter to anyone.
When he went back into his office, he placed his hat down on his desk and took off his belt radio. No news yet of Dion or any of his friends around the mall. They all knew what he looked like because of the picture, but did all of his men know what to look for if any of the other kids showed up in advance? He doubted it would happen. This wasn't some Saturday morning cartoon show where he was forced to worry about meddling kids; the stakes were real at the mall. But no sign of them yet. He hoped it would stay that way.
The phone rang and he picked it up.
"Officer Karanzen," he spoke into the receiver. "Who do I have the pleasure of addressing?"
"This is Matt," an all-too-familiar voice said on the other end. "Guess what? Dion and his intrepid crew are already inside the mall. Were you aware of this?"
"How could they have gotten into the mall?" he exclaimed on his end. "I've had men all morning checking the lot. They all have his picture. I don't believe it!"
"It's not a matter of what you believe. Dion is in the mall and headed to the final place he needs to go. I've already relieved your crack troops, but don't worry; we have a team of replacements on their way. They should be arriving in a few minutes, but until then you better pray there's no trouble it he mall because you're now all the security we have. Don't worry about your job, it's still secure, for now. The new men will report to you as soon as they arrive. We can't take any more chances. Sorry, but your crack team didn't work out so well."
"Who are these guys?" Karanzen demanded. "Are they trained to deal with mall security? Because if they aren't you will be in worse trouble than you were with my guys. At least my guys knew the mall lay-out."
"Don't you worry about them. You'll quickly see why they're important. Just allow them to do what they're supposed to do. They'll take care of this damn kid and his friends."
"You better be right. I don't need any questions about my own status."
"Oh, shut-up and do your job for a change." The call ended.
Karanzen placed the receiver back on the phone and tried to concentrate. But all he could see was the Chosin Reservoir again and an endless wall of Chinese soldiers. He ran as hard as he could and heard his men yell in the distance. There was a sound of random rifle fire and all was quiet. He concentrated hard and the scene vanished and he was still back in his office.

The vestibule, which would take them into the mall, loomed before Dion and his friends. It was the final chamber they needed to enter before the door to the mall. It didn't appear to be much on the inside. In fact, it was little more than a broom closet for the maintenance crew. But they had no clue as to what waited for them on the outside. Dion stood there in his jean jacket, in an attempt to figure out what to do next. The map had failed to show him the exact location of the Fire Grandmaster's store. There were close to a hundred shops in this part of the mall. For all he understood, there could be a hundred security guards outside the door, each ready to beat them all to a pulp to keep him from finishing his quest. Or there might be nothing at all.
"So are we ready to go out there?" Sean asked Dion. He too had no clue as to what lay behind the door. All he was told was that the final part of the mall was outside.
Sean still had difficulty realizing this mall was like no other in the world. Yes, it was a big shopping mall with multiple anchor stores, but the mall was built over the abyss, which linked this reality with the beyond. Seth Bach, he was told, had built it to channel the tremendous energy he could harvest from the abyss. Energy that could make him more powerful than any man on the planet. Or any man in history for that matter. He'd kidnapped Dion's parents and held them inside the tower to keep his nephew away, but his plans merely drew Dion closer. And with his multiple elemental abilities, Dion was a foe unlike any other than his uncle had encountered. Or ever would encounter.
"Almost," Dion told him. "I have to check one final thing. Just give me a minute."
He walked over to the wall and searched for something attached to the ceiling. Dion reached up and pulled down a small box, which was attached to the upper wall and opened it. He pulled a wire loose and set it on the ground.
"Fire sensor," he told his friends. "It will trigger an alarm if it detects any unusual amount of heat in the room. I need to light a match to get some information and I don't need this thing going off. Somebody remind me to reset the alarm before we leave."
"I will," Lilly said.
"Thanks," Dion said as he fished around in his pockets. "I hope I remembered to bring these things because if I didn't, we may have to go back. Ah, there they are!"
Dion held up a pack of matches. They were a standard pack which could be found anywhere at any store or bar in town. "I need these to get some information."
Dion took out one match and struck it on the strike board. The matchhead instantly ignited with the blue and yellow flame casting shadows across the dim light of the room. The flame climbed up the thin matchstick and began to crawl to Dion's fingers.
"That's enough!" Dion snapped at it and the fire elemental jumped off the matchstick and landed on the floor.
"I need information," Dion said to the flame on the floor. It stood there and burned without any sign of fuel. The flame soon grew to a foot in height.
Next, the flame shaped itself into the form of a human. Since it still burned, the shape changed while they looked at it. However, it merged into the overall outline of a humanoid shape, complete with eyes and mouth. The fire on the top of it formed into hair.
"What do you need, boss?" the fire said to him. "I'm your man, just tell me what you need and I'll run it past you."
"How many guards outside the door?" he inquired of the flame.
"Just let me check," the flame told him and shot to the door. It shrank in size and slipped under the door before returning to them.
"It's groovy," the flame announced. "Dig it man, no cops, no guards, just a hall full of squares flipping their lids."
"Thank you," Dion spoke to it. "And by the way, where did you learn to talk like that?"
"I was at a boutique downtown near the college. Plenty of cool cats down there."
"One final thing I need of you," Dion told the flame.
"Fire away, heh, heh."
"Who is the Fire Element Grandmaster? I need to see that person."
"Michael Hades. He should be in the map listing."
"Thanks," Dion said and waved his hand over the flame creature. The flame shrank in size until it disappeared. "Time to send you back."
"I didn't think you had fire ability," Sean said to him.
"I don't have all my abilities," Dion explained. "It's why I have to see the elemental grandmaster to get the final power. I can still work with lesser fire elementals provided they want to help me. As you saw, that little fire spirit wanted to be useful. Too bad I couldn't keep him around longer. You can't stick an elemental in your pocket."
"You asked me to remind you about the fire sensor," Lilly told Dion.
"Oh yes." Dion replaced a wire on the one he'd taken from the ceiling. "It works fine now." Then he brought out the map once again. He found another table in the vestibule where it could be spread out and examined.
"Isn't there any kind of directory for these things?" Sean asked Dion as the four of them poured over the map.
"A few basic bits of information," Dion said. "Not enough to find the right location. I should've been specific when I asked the fire elemental what I needed to know."
"Can't you bring it back?" Emily asked him. "I mean, is there any rule which says a fire elemental can only be used once?"
Dion stopped perusing the map and turned to her. A strange look came over his face. "As a matter of fact, there isn't. It's not a good idea if you can't bind them because fire elementals tend to burn things up. The smaller ones are the most playful and don't understand how dangerous they can be to humans. But no, I suppose I could bring back the one I just released."
Dion reached back in his pocket and took out another match and struck it after concentrating for a few minutes. The flame, once again, grew bright on the stick and fell to the floor where it grew in size.
"You need something else, daddy-o?" the fire elemental asked him. "Just let me know, but make it quick because I want to make the scene with a water pipe."
"You didn't tell me which store I could find the elemental master at. I need to know."
"You didn't ask, pops. I'll show you right now." The flame leaped on the map and bounced over to a schematic of a restaurant. As the flame cast light on the map, Dion leaned over and read where it sat.
"Texas Style Chili," Dion read off the map. "It would figure. You may leave now."
"I'm booking on out of here," the flame announced and vanished.
"A chili parlor," Sean said. "It makes sense. He's been putting fire in people's guts for a long time."
"My dad used to go to his place downtown before he moved it into the mall," Emily said to her friends. "He told me the food was good, but you needed to hit an ice cream parlor when you left."
"At least we know where it is," Dion said. "I'll have to roll this map up and... hey, does anyone smell smoke?" Dion looked down and saw a big black hole in the middle of the map where the fire spirit had rested before it left. The hole expanded as he looked at it and sent up clouds of smoke as it consumed most of the papyrus.
Fearing it would set off the fire sensor, Dion yanked off his jacket and beat out the smoldering map before it could spread any further. The smoke alarm stayed quiet, much to his relief. Soon the smoke was drifting down into the subbasement, but the map was ruined.
Dion held up the map. Just about an entire section, which covered the fire part of the mall, was destroyed. A few stores and passages were readable on the sides, but most of it was gone. What the elementals hadn't managed to steal, the fire had burnt.
"Ruined," Dion said as he looked at it. "The map is useless for this last section. Now I remember why it's not a good idea to use the same fire elemental a second time. They like to have fun at your expense."
Dion sighed and rolled up what was left of the map. He put his jacket back on and returned the remains of the map to the inside of his jacket.
""It wasn't a total loss," Lilly said. "At least we know where you can find the elemental grandmaster. Is there still the clock tower part on the map?"
"The map never covered the clock tower," he explained to her. "When I go into it, I will have to do it alone. We might know where to go today, but the map was useful if we ran into trouble. It's not going to be of much use in this section of the mall since it was burnt away."
"But it doesn't change a thing," Dion continued. "We still need to get inside the rest of the mall." He pushed on the door into the mall and it opened with ease.

Chapter 5

The four of them stepped into the mall just under an escalator. Once they were inside, Dion closed the door and tested it. Locked. The door was set to lock on closing to keep people from venturing inside. Whoever set the lock didn't anticipate anyone invading from the other side.
Other than the red color, it resembled every other part of the mall. The window looked into the parking lot. Since they were on the opposite side, they couldn't see the grove of trees where the Naiads waited for their boyfriends. They could see the highway, which made the mall attractive to merchants.
Lilly wondered what would happen to this mall the day another highway or mall was put in place. It too would lose stores and die. It seemed to happen everywhere. A new shopping district would open and an older one would die off. Was it the product of evolution or something else? She couldn't tell and didn't much care.
"So, where do we go to find this chili place?" Emily asked Dion. "Do we make a right here at the main concourse?"
"It's what the map said."
Michael Hades was supposed to be the master of Southwestern chili. His restaurant in downtown Scipio was a landmark for years. The local choice of eating establishments in Scipio tended to the exotic only in the way of Italian foods, as the Italians had brought with them their love for spices when they first showed up at the turn of the century. For the longest time the other big non-English speaking group in town was German, but the town's German themed restaurants had never taken off at the time. Most of them were integrated into the local beer halls located just outside the auto plants.
Sean didn't like spicy food, so he knew little of what made the Hades restaurant so popular. People would order the hottest chili on the menu and expect to become sensory deprived in minutes if the pot was fresh.
Michael Hades had a theory about the preparation of chili and he didn't think a good pot of chili should be so hot it rendered your taste buds useless. He once told a news reporter a good pot of chili had an excellent flavor hidden under the spices. It should sneak up as the customer was finished with his meal. He should leave the table with flushed skin, but still have a sensation of satiety and fullness. A good bowl of chili was subtle as the snap of a whip, not blunt as the blow from a hammer. It should let you know it was there in a subtle manner, not smash you up the side of the head and stomp on your face. He wouldn't say where his chili recipe had originated just that it was "south of the border".
On cold winter nights, he would spin a tale to his patrons, which had him stranded off the coast of the Mayan Peninsula when his merchant freighter hit a sandbar. He would tell people how a beautiful senorita took him home to meet her father, Don Gordo, who showed Senior Hades the secret of cooking the perfect bowl of chili. He was forced to promise marriage to get the recipe, but he snuck out of the hacienda one night. An army of guapos chased him north until he reached the border crossing at the Rio Grande. He was forced to memorize the recipe before he swam the river and only with the vision of a steaming hot bowl of chili in front of him was he able to survive to reach the other side. Captured by the border patrol he was only spared the indignity of a jail cell when he could recite the final scores of every baseball world series from the years 1960 to 1970. They almost arrested him anyway when he expressed his love for the Cincinnati Reds and the border guards were all Dodgers fans. He was released only when he cooked them a pot of the secret chili recipe. To this day, the pot of his chili is kept at boiling temperatures and every night a new batch of vegetables and meat is added with the ten-pound batch of seasoning that Don Gordo gave to him.
At least this was the general outline of the story he told on cold winter nights. No one knew if there was any truth to it at all. Some people pointed out that Hades changed the story a little bit each time. But no one cared as the man was a natural born storyteller and people loved his chili. Who cared if half of the ingredients came in steel cans certified by the USDA.
In truth, Hades learned the power of fire elementals at an early age when his particular clan of elemental workers discovered his unique ability to start bathroom fires and spontaneous combustion on piles of wood. By fifteen, all his peers bowed to his innate ability to control the unpredictable fire spirits and the salamanders, which could be reasoned with, but still enjoyed burning down the occasional house.
He needed a career and a cook was the best choice. Hades used the best and most up to date cook stoves in his kitchen, but he didn't need them. The man could cook a slab of beef in minutes by directing a fire elemental to do the job. However, the stoves were needed for the kitchen staff and the restaurant inspectors. In the summer, he gave a cookout that employed salamanders and no one ever complained about the barbecue.
Placing a satellite restaurant in the mall was a dream of his and he spent every other day at the new restaurant ensuring the quality was the same that he was known for in Scipio. The business hadn't quite picked up yet. However, it would soon do it, he felt. It was only a matter of time until the word spread in the little community around the mall about his new place.
Michael Hades was what the locals liked to call a "ruddy man". His hair was red and his complexion followed. He was tall and wide; sometimes he had difficulty getting out of his car. But he was a generous man and rewarded the people who worked for him in every way possible. Christmas bonuses were always big and he bragged not one cook was ever let go for lack of work. It was considered an honor in the food business to work for the man and one year in his kitchen was worth the twelve you might get anywhere else in town.
Dion only knew a little bit about the restaurant they needed to find. He'd remembered the location from the now burned map. His aunt and uncle stayed home most of the time and didn't eat out much. It was always a treat when they did. In fact, this would be the first time he'd ever visited this particular restaurant.
They walked down the concourse a bit and decided to wait before approaching the restaurant. So far, there was no sign of Karanzen's men, but this could all change in a minute. Dion was surprised none of them lurked anywhere in the vicinity. Usually, he could spot one or two in the distance who kept an eye on him and his friends once inside the mall. Even the security cameras couldn't watch every part of the mall and security needed human eyes to keep a watch on everyone. But today he didn't see any of them in the mall.
"Do you remember exactly where the chili place was located on the map?" Sean asked Dion. Sean was dressed a little better than normal today with his shirt tucked in his pants. Emily had spoken to him about his appearance.
"Not exactly," Dion said, "but most of the food places are in the same location. All we have to do is find them and the Hades restaurant will be there."
"Emily wants to check out this record store," he announced. "Why don't we go inside it and meet up with you later? That way if any of us tangle with your uncle there will be at least one party left for the rescue."
"If he strikes," Dion told him, "we'll be hit at the same time. But you might as well go ahead and check it out. I'm going into this game store. Plan on both of us returning here in a half-hour." Dion checked his watch.
Sean looked at his. "No problem. See you then." Then he walked away with Emily.
Dion watched him leave and turned to Lilly. "I don't see how it will be problem to let them have a little time to themselves. Let's go to the game store."
"As long as you reach the restaurant on time. I just hope the owner is around today. He has another one downtown. What if he's there?"
"He's here today."
"How do you know?"
"I just do."

Chapter 6

The Elewheron Puzzle and Game Company was a small shop in the large mall. When Dion and Lilly walked into it, the shop had several jigsaw puzzles laid out on a table where people were in the process of putting them together. In the back of the room, several other high schoolers were looking over the selection of war games. Some of the war games came with complete sets and figures, but many of them had a collection of pewter figures that needed to be purchased separately from the main game.
To Dion it seemed to be a good deal for the game makers. Sell the players a basic set, and then continue to upgrade it and force them to purchase more figures to play. Some of the figures came hand-painted, others were bought without decoration and the player could paint them on their own. Naturally, the game store sold paint and various modeling compounds to upgrade the figures. Once again, it was a good plan for all parties involved since the gamers could add some individual flair into what they did and the game company could sell them more products. It was quite a step up from the toy soldiers he remembered as a kid.
The manager looked to be in her twenties and was behind the cash register when they entered the store. She wore the "Ben Franklin" glasses, popular with grandmas and hippies from ten years ago and had a trace of grey in her hair. She smiled at them, but didn't push herself on the new couple in the store. She continued working on an account book as they made their way around in the store and looked at the games.
"Were you ever good at jigsaw puzzles?" Dion asked Lilly as they shuffled through some of the boxes. "I never was. Every time I think of a jigsaw puzzle, I think about a movie I saw on TV where some rich lady spent all her time putting them together. I have better things to do with my time."
"I liked putting them together as a kid," she told him. "Haven't had much time to do them lately. Emily still likes to put them together."
They walked over to a table where several puzzles were partially assembled and looked at the result. Across from them, a man in his twenties attempted to get a puzzle together, but he wasn't very successful according to the look on his face. He picked up one piece, then another, and looked at them as he tried to find a place to put each one on the partially completed puzzle.
"Have you looked at this one?" The manager's voice grabbed their attention.
Dion and Lilly turned around to see the lady walk up to them with a small-boxed jigsaw puzzle. "It's our latest and I think you might like it." She sat it down in front of them and walked away.
Dion picked it up and looked at it. The puzzle showed a large fireplace in a castle with a blazing fire in it on the box. The puzzle was complicated and had close to five hundred pieces. He opened it and saw the freshly printed puzzle pieces inside. This one had never been assembled before.
"Fire," Dion said and looked at Lilly. "The puzzle depicts a fireplace. How long do you think it would take you to put this one together?"
"Not too long with your help," she told Dion. "Do you want to go ahead and try?" She gestured to the empty table in front of them.
"I think it's important we do it," Dion said as she dumped the pieces out. Lilly began looking at them and piling the various puzzle pieces into different piles.
Dion worked with her as Lilly went into problem solving mode and began to assemble the puzzle. She would pick up a piece and either put it in the puzzle or into one of several piles she had on the table.
Lilly worked quick and soon had an outline of the final picture in front of her. As they were able to compare it to the one on the box, she had an idea of what to do.
Dion knew something was about to be revealed in the puzzle. Why had he chosen to go inside this store? If he'd gone into another one, would the message have been delivered a different way? He decided it was a matter of fate that he'd picked up this puzzle in this store and continued to help Lilly.












Sean and Emily found themselves in Mad Larry's Great World of Sound in the next store.
Sean enjoyed visiting record stores as they always carried the vinyl albums you never heard on the radio. Sometimes it was a good idea to take the right amount of money if you had a purchase in mind. Some time ago, he'd found a record he wanted to buy for an upcoming concert, The No Band, and was on the point of giving the clerk the money when he remembered he needed to get his hair cut that day. He excused himself and went to the bank to get some more cash. When Sean returned, the album, the only copy they had in the entire store, was gone, sold to the next customer who'd walked into the store.
Emily had her favorites as well. She and Lilly were big fans of a British singer named Stew Rodgers who'd enjoyed some chart success on the AM radio. They'd seen him in concert a few times and looked forward to another tour he was supposed to make in next year. She looked around to see if there was anything that interested her in the cut-out bin.
But, as she looked over the albums, Emily couldn't find a single one that interested her. She remembered these particular bins tended to stock one-hit wonders and albums by bands that never went anywhere, but you could find some good ones every now and then. She'd even landed a difficult to find record from Seta Penfield last year at a record shop in downtown Scipio. She remembered the clerk at the store grumbling about how he'd had his eye on that one too.
"Have you ever heard of any of these bands?" Sean eventually said to her as they scanned the collection in front of them.
The albums were displayed so they could see them in their twelve-inch glory with the big pictures on the covers. They didn't appear to be some garbage operation, each one was produced with loving care and the artwork on each album was excellent.
Emily walked over to the wall, withdrew one album, and looked it over. She saw a complete list of credits and musicians on the back. None of whom she recognized.
"Not a one," she told him. "I don't think I've ever heard of any of these bands on the radio. Not even the FM stations play them. They don't look too bad, but how are you supposed to buy a record by someone you've never heard before? There used to be listening booths, maybe someday they'll be back."

Meanwhile, over at the game store, Lilly was busy finishing the puzzle. Dion had stood next to Lilly and helped her with the final assembly process. To watch Lilly work at putting a puzzle together was miraculous. She would pick up a piece and instinctively know if it was one she wanted right away, or one not to use. Lilly would place the unwanted pieces on the part of the table furthest from her and then return to the main pile. By the end of the half-hour, the huge puzzle had taken shape. People would stop by and watch her at work, but people didn't comment as they realized she was in some kind of meditative state as she worked.

"It's because this is a tax loss store," the manager of Mad Mike's said to Sean and Emily as they looked at the wall. "You won't find these bands anywhere but at this store. Some are pretty good. It's a shame we can't sell many of them, but no one really cares."
"I don't get it," Emily said to the man. "What is the purpose of a store that sells records that no one wants to buy? Don't you have many sales?"
"We get them all day," he explained, "but not too many. People come in here, buy what they think is a popular group, then they bring it back. I have to refund their money all the time. Some of them do stay with the purchase."
"What's a tax loss album?" Sean asked the man. This place was too strange, even for this mall.
"The tax laws are funny," the man began. "They take so much out at one level, that it makes sense for the record companies to dump cash on bands which no one cares about so they don't end up at the next level. They have to show on the books money was spent on new acts, but no one expects them to make a dime. The public is fickle and no one wants to take a chance on an unknown act, no matter how good they might be. So the record company finds a tape, has it pressed to vinyl, matches it with a snazzy cover and then it ends up here. We always lose money and they are able to show on the books the excess cash was burnt up. The band gets a break, the record company blows some money on a new act, everyone wins but the government and no one cares about them."
Emily cocked her ear. "But I heard that song on the radio last week. Don't tell me that band is a tax loss band."
"Of course not, we have to sell something to stay in business."

Dion watched as Lilly placed the last piece of the puzzle in place. She stood back and looked at it. Too bad no one else was in the store to see her accomplishment.
They looked down at the image of the fire in the fireplace. It was taken from a painting, not a photograph. The colors were vivid and jumped out at them. Dion looked up to see the manager come over and look at what Lilly had managed to do.
The only thing missing from the scene were the puzzle pieces, which were strategically removed from the puzzle box by someone. They had done this in a very clever fashion so that the missing pieces spelled out a word in the middle of the puzzle.
Looking at them from the center of the fire in the fireplace was the word "Atziluth". The word was plain to see, although some of the letters were a little bit rough because of the sharpness of the corners.
"Atziluth," Lilly said. "What does it mean?"

In the record store, Emily and Sean remembered they needed to return to the concourse and wait for Dion and Lilly.
Sean checked his wristwatch and gently tapped Emily on the shoulder. His fiancée was busy talking to the record store manager about the unheard music and bands which would fade into the lost past.
"Someday they will be rediscovered," the manager told them as they left the store. "Too much good music in here for it all to be lost. I feel it in my soul, but it might be thirty or forty years before anyone rediscovers these bands."
They came around the corner and encountered Dion with Lilly, who were ready to continue the quest. Lilly had a strange look on her face.
"How was the record store?" Dion asked them. He seemed to be concerned with Lilly's state of mind.
"It was good," Emily said. "Good if you like stores which sell records no one wants to buy and is supposed to lose money for the owners. This mall is filled with stores which can't exist anywhere else."
"It's one of the reasons it's here," Dion said.
"So what did you find in your game store?" Sean asked Dion and Emily. The sun was streaming into the large window next to the concourse.
"Nothing much," Lilly answered for him. "Just a puzzle with a mysterious word which became visible when you put it together." She stared off into space.
"Word?" Lilly asked. "What word?"
"Atziluth," Dion said. "It's the term for the part of the universe the mall represents. It stands for the archetypical word of emanation. The part of the universe where we now stand."
"So how does it all figure into the work we are trying to accomplish?" Emily asked.
"I'm not sure. I know it has something to do with my quest, but how it all figures into it, I don't know. I've memorized the word and its spelling because we just might need it later. Everybody remember this word in case we need it."
"Do you think someone sent it to us to help?" Sean asked.
"Not sure about that one either," Dion said. "It could be, but they would have had to know I was about to go in this store with someone like Lilly who likes to put puzzles together. What if I'd chosen another store? The manager told me the box arrived a few hours ago and was brand new. It's the only one she got of this particular puzzle and she's taken it off the shelf until they send her a replacement with all the pieces."
"This isn't something I expected would happen," Dion told his friends. "For all I know, someone could be setting us up for something bad. I need to consult the elementals before we move forward."

Chapter 7

Dion looked up in the air and saw a few air elemental sylphs floating around the rafters again. As usual, they'd blown into the mall because someone had left a door open. They didn't want to be in the "fire" section and felt very uncomfortable in this part. Dion understood they could only give him what information they possessed, but perhaps they'd seen something.
While his three friends watched, he brought them down to his level and silently asked them a few questions. The sylphs spun around him invisible to the rest of the mall and told Dion what he needed to know. Once again, he went to the nearest door and opened it to allow them to leave. Next, he walked back over to his companions.
"Did you find anything out?" Emily asked him. All she saw was Dion standing in the middle of the mall while the sylphs were in conversation with him. The air elementals hadn't wanted to make themselves visible while they conversed with their friend.
"The mall security guards are all gone," he told them. "They told me the guards were all assembled an hour ago and sent packing. I don't know how Karanzen plans to maintain security in this place unless my uncle already has a new team handpicked. Guess we'll find out soon because there is no way he is going to leave this place unprotected from shop lifters and thieves."
They walked a little bit further and noticed the foot traffic increase inside the mall. As the end of the week loomed, more people arrived to take advantage of the spring sales. Dion and the rest of his friends stopped as the human traffic was difficult to cross.
"I think we need to split up for a bit," he told them. "Emily, why don't you and Sean wander around for a while? We can meet up here in a few hours or so. I don't like the way this place feels and I'm worried my uncle has planned something I can't anticipate."
"Sounds like a good idea," Emily agreed and walked off with Sean.
"I'm not sure about this," Lilly told Dion. "We could find ourselves trapped here or the same could happen to them. Are you trying to separate us to bait your uncle?"
Dion reached out and took her hand. "I don't know what my uncle is up to right now. I can't sense him; he's shielded from me. Even though he lacks the four elemental abilities I am about to master, he still has mastery of the aether and it makes all the difference. So, no, I don't want to use us as bait, but I have to find out more about what is taking place here before I can obtain the full powers of the fire element."
Dion and Lilly soon came to a movie theater. "Now that is funny," Dion said. "There was one of these outside the mall. Why would there be another one here? It would just compete with the business?"
Lilly looked up at the marquee of the cinema. "Solar Theater," she read. "I've never heard of this place. Must have just opened. I wonder what's playing?" She walked up to a movie poster mounted in a case attached to the wall and noticed it was for an older film.
"The Final Man," she read aloud to Dion. "It stars Kane Welles and Plasma Players. Now what do you know? I thought we studied Welles in school and I never heard of this movie. Have you?"
"I can't say it sounds familiar, but it wouldn't surprise me. I'll bet this theater wasn't here yesterday. Oh, look at the sign, it's closed for repairs." A large sign blocked the entrance, which was still wide open.
Dion walked into the lobby and looked around. Two boxes of fresh popcorn faced him on the counter of the snack bar, which was a little weird as the concession stand was empty of any product. From inside the movie theater he could hear the sound of music playing. He heard the footsteps of Lilly as she joined him.
"What do we do?" she asked.
"Isn't it obvious? We supposed to go inside and watch the movie."

At the same time, Sean had discovered a store that held great interest for him: an electronic appliance store. "Azmuth Electronics" said the name over the door and he could see an entire wall of the latest twenty-five inch televisions as they played a variety of shows broadcast on all three networks. There were even a few which showed public television and the local UHF channels. A few sales clerks floated around and talked to prospective customers, as they did everywhere else in the mall stores.
"Let's check this place out," Sean told Emily. "My dad was talking about buying one of those things which can move the antenna for the TV. They might even have one here."
"What good would that do him? So the TV antenna moves, then what? You get the same channels."
"You change the orientation of the antenna, you get better reception," Sean explained. "Doesn't your dad ever fool with the antenna to get the out-of-town signals in better?"
"No, he usually just swears at it."
Sean ignored her lack of interest and pulled Emily inside the store. She tried to look curious, but all the electronics appeared stale to her.
On one side of the store were the latest turntables and audio   receivers with separate attachments for cassettes. Sean seemed excited, but she wondered what happened to the eight track players. Didn't her father used to have one in the car? Couldn't you play them in the house too?
"Cable is coming," she overheard one man say to another. "It will be the next big thing."
"How can you be so sure?" the guy with him stated. "How are you going to convince people to pay for something they are used to getting for free?"
"Less commercials for one," his companion argued. "Better reception for another. Imagine a TV screen free of static and you don't spend all night trying to get your picture adjusted."
"It will never fly. The township will flip when they see the cost of putting all those cables underground."
"They'll find a way to pass the cost onto the subscribers. You just watch."
She heard them fade into the distance as they walked to look at another display in front: recordable televisions. She watched Sean drool over the endless possibilities as a person could record their TV show and watch it later. As far as she could see, it was another way to make money off people with too much to spend. Besides, the video recording machine appeared to weigh a ton. Who would want something like that in their house?
"Are you finished?" Emily asked Sean. "Can we go look at something else for a change?"
"Sure, but let's find out where the antenna turning things are, I want to tell dad how much they cost. You know, there's a guy who lives down the street from us who actually installs antennas. Might be something for me to think about someday."
Emily rolled her eyes and continued walking with him. They both crossed the wall of TV's at the back of the store and halted.
A continuous row of the same elderly actor delivered the same line at the same time. The effect was mesmerizing and they stopped to look at the bank of televisions. But they didn't notice no one else was in the store. For some reason, the other customers suddenly felt as if they needed to leave at the same time. The electronics store was void of anyone but them.

"I think we are the only people in this theater," Lilly said to Dion as they seated themselves toward the middle of it. "I don't see another person in here."
"The sign did say it was closed for repairs," Dion reminded her as he handed her a box of popcorn. "Sorry if there's too much butter on this one, but I can't stand it on mine."
The curtains rolled open to reveal the blank white screen. Dion wondered why they still used curtains on movie theaters. The stage in front of it was almost nonexistent, just a few feet in length. There would be no scene changes that the curtains needed to conceal. It was one of those strange and odd things, which people linked to action, such as the teletype sounds on breaking news stories even though the mechanical teletype machines had faded into the past. Would future radio stations insert scratch sounds into audio tape to make it sound "real"?
In the background, he could hear the whirl of a movie projector starting. This meant someone had to be in the theater besides them because a movie projector implied a projectionist. Or did it? Nothing about this mall was as it seemed. He didn't recall a movie theater listed in the fire element section, but the map was too damaged to check again.
The presentation went directly to the movie. Dion expected a few coming attractions, but no, the black and white titles started up right away. Too bad, Dion could only imagine what sort of features would accompany this one. There was a brief blip and the soundtrack started as the projectionist made the final adjustment.
After the credits, which looked similar to the last four movies this director made before 1940, the movie cut to the main action. There was a boardroom where several people debated the direction of a company until an elderly man ordered a younger son to leave. All was halted when another son offered to give his share in the company to someone else.
"Have we seen this one before?" Lilly asked Dion. She leaned up against Dion and tried to forget where they were.
"Another version, but I like the actor who is playing my uncle." Dion leaned back and munched some more popcorn. This one was going to be interesting.
They watched as an intrepid reporter attempted to put together the story of Seth Bach and his attempts to steer his father's company to new heights of glory. The skyscraper he wanted to build was the perfect stand-in for the mall.
Dion admitted the production was quality, even if it was somewhat dated due to its post WW2 setting. He didn't care much for the two actors who portrayed his parents. And the child actor who played Dion's role didn't look like him at all.
Sean and Emily stood captivated by the wall of television. There had to be at least forty of them in the back of the store and they were tuned to the same channel. This seemed odd, as the TV's showed different programs when they entered the store. However, every single one of them was now tuned to a show about a family that had problems. They had walked up to the TV bank as the show was in progress, so there was no way to know what was before them. Sean thought it looked familiar, but he didn't recognize any of the actors or the setting. Emily was entrapped by it as well.
The show took place somewhere in the Midwest and involved several families. The action continued to flip between the two settings. One family consisted of two parents who were busy with a spunky girl child while the conservative dad fought to understand his liberated wife. The other family had several children with a super-religious wife and blue-collar husband. The laugh track was frequent and annoying. Sean couldn't understand why the laugh track activated every time one of the kids said something profound.
There was a break for a commercial and Sean turned to Emily. "Have you ever seen this one before? I watch TV in the evening too, but don't think this show is one my parents watch."
"Never seen it before," she said to him. "What are these commercials about? What the heck are they selling?"
The first one was for a new drug that removed painful memories and featured a mother who had abandoned her family. The second was for a midnight meal that mechanics could fix while working the graveyard shift. The third was for a local museum that never opened. As soon as the one for the museum faded, the show resumed. There was still nothing that identified the TV show, which had to be some kind of comedy on account of the laugh track.
The next opening scene featured the little girl who wanted to know when her mother was going to return. "Not anytime soon," her father said to the sound of much hilarity. "Mom is out doing her thing and we're not going to see her for some time. The scene shifted to the religious family in their Sunday best, probably on their way from church, although it appeared to be late in the evening. "And another thing," the mother was howling to her bored son in the backseat, "you will show some respect to us in the future. When we get home you are going to show your father you're a worthy son." The father appeared to be equally bored, but did a better job to keep it hidden.
"I am so looking forward to getting out of this place," the sounds of the son echoed in his thoughts. Funny how television could tell you what someone was thinking just by using voice-overs.
"It's not the most effective way to trap someone," Dion mentioned to Lilly as he finished his popcorn. "I can think of several ways which could do the job better."
"What is the whole point of this movie?" Lilly asked him. "Does your uncle think you can be fixated on your life story? I don't get it."
"He's trying to buy some time," Dion explained. "With me out of the picture, it allows him to come up with another plan. For instance, he's just found a way to isolate us from Sean and Emily. Now with Sean and Emily somewhere else..."
The look on Dion's face changed as he realized the implications of what he'd just said. This meant Sean and Emily were vulnerable to whatever machinations his uncle had created. Neither one of them was an elemental worker and they'd be easy targets. A perfect way to get at Dion.
Dion shot up in his seat. "We have to get out of here!"
"What's wrong? You seemed fine a minute ago."
"I know why we were lured into this place. My uncle wants to get at Sean and Emily. He can't do much to me, but they're vulnerable."
Tears flowed down Emily's face as she watched the little girl on TV wander alone in the backyard of her parents' house. There would be no more talks with her mother now or in the future. She felt so much alone and mouthed the dialogue with her. She stood transfixed by the wall of televisions, which were all tuned to the same humiliating comedy show.

Chapter 8

Sean started to ask Emily what troubled her when he turned to see a new scene on the TV's.
Now the son was stuck in the living room of the house as his mother hurled invectives against him. She accused him of a lack of respect to her and his father. He refused to say a word. His father wanted to know why he has no interest in sports, as he made a suggestion that Sean's obsession with books was part of a deeper problem. Before them was another "progress report" from the junior high school which showed a lack of his interest in the subjects he was forced to study. The laugh track reverberated with guffaws every time the mother screamed another curse against the boy.
Sean stood in silence, his hands shaking as he watched his life story played out for the world to see. Emily was unable to help him as she was still in shock over the scene of her own life, which ripped out her heart.
And in the background of the store, a figure watched them frozen in place. It nodded in approval. It cost him a lot to have this drama performed, but it had played off nicely. He wondered about the film that played out in front of Dion. It should keep him busy for a while too. It was good to see a plan work out so well.

The theater door was locked when Dion reached it. He placed one hand on the bar to the set of glass doors and pushed. They refused to budge and he realized his uncle had done his work very well. Dion tried to force it some more, but the doors wouldn't move. He banged on them a few times until Lilly came up behind him.
"I should have suspected this," Dion said. "I don't see anything around here we can force them open with."
A thought came over Lilly. "Doesn't there have to be someone in the projection booth at all times?"
Dion and Lilly found the stairs, which led to the booth in a few minutes and rushed up them two at a time. The door to the booth was open and they ran inside.
It was abandoned. The projector was playing on automatic and the film reel had a lot to go before it would reach the end. Dion looked at the reel and noticed it was still at the beginning, although they'd been inside the theater for a good thirty minutes. Something told him this wasn't an ordinary projector and the reel would continue to run indefinitely if allowed.
"No one here," he concluded. "They must've left earlier. Let's see if we can find another way out." They raced back down the stairs.
Dion rushed past the doors when he noticed something outside the theater. He stopped and grinned when he saw an old friend who could help him out.
The plastic bull connected to a coin box and was now repaired. Someone had placed it in the children's play area outside the theater. This was the same bull which was used to house earth elementals and sent against him earlier in the quest. All he needed to do was find another earth elemental and send it back into the animatronic bull situated outside the theater.
Dion closed his eyes and concentrated. He found a few earth elementals moving around beneath the foundation of the mall. They weren't inside the mall, but they could still make contact with him and be useful. They didn't want much and Dion made a payment to them in advance. He could handle the remainder when the job was completed, he let them know. The elementals agreed and moved from the ground beneath the mall and into the plastic bull that sat unused on the platform next to the coin box. None of the children playing around it paid the bull much attention, but this was all about to change.
One mother watching her child in a plastic locomotive almost dropped her purse when the bull stepped off its platform and walked over to the door of the theater. The kids in the play area cheered it on, unaware of how it functioned.
The bull trotted over to the door and dropped its glossy head down to the level of the two handles on the other side. The door to the theater was not just one door, but two half doors which had handles on the mall side. The release bar was built to the inside of the theater for safety reasons. In an emergency, people were supposed to be able to push down on the bar and the door would release. Today, however, the bars didn't function as they should.
As a small audience gathered around the plastic bull to watch it at work, Dion opened his eyes, the instructions to the earth elemental inside it now complete. He's followed it up to the door to make sure it knew exactly what to do. The last thing he wanted to encounter was glass flying from the door if the bull charged.
The bull placed its horns down to the handles on the mall side and slid them into the grips. It reared back just enough to test them and then grunted. The next thing it did was to pull back hard on the handles and yank them back toward its synthetic neck. Plastic didn't take such stress under normal circumstances, but the bull could hardly be considered normal.
There was a screeching sound as the aluminum door handles began to give way from the force generated by the bull. Dion stepped back and took Lilly with him as he waved people away from the door. The audience realized what was about to happen and moved back from the sound.
A loud pop came from one of the glass halves as the door began to move backwards and follow the motion of the bull. The glass cracked, but remained intact in the door. Both halves parted slightly as the metal frame yielded to the strength of the artificial bull when it forced its way back. The doors swung open as the plastic bull shot backwards.
It stopped a few feet from the door to make sure Dion and Lilly were safe as they emerged from the door. One of the door halves swung on its hinge as they passed it by. Dion watched the bull walk past the crowd of curious shoppers and stand back on the platform for the ride. It became still and assumed its previous position as the earth elemental left it and returned to the layer of soil beneath the ride in the children's section.
Of course, every single kid in the mall near it lined up to ride the bull. They would be a little disappointed, but there was nothing he could do about that.
They found Emily and Sean a few minutes later. Dion somehow just knew they were going to be located inside the electronics store. There was a sign telling the public as to how the store would be closed for a few hours, but it opened when Dion put his hand on the door. Whatever he'd done to the other door had transferred to him and this one had no desire to be busted open.
Emily and Sean were in the back of the electronics store starring at an endless bank of televisions, all which showed static on the screens.
"What are they starring at?" Lilly asked him. "There's nothing on the TV's."
"There doesn't have to be," Dion explained as he grabbed Sean by one shoulder and pulled him away. "It's what they see in their minds. You lead Emily out; she won't come unless someone takes her hand."
A few minutes later, the four were sitting at a table next to a vending machine. Dion had brought both of them some coffee to drink. It took another few minutes, even with the coffee, for the effects of the TV's to wear off, but they soon blinked their eyes and showed signs of recognition.
"Where were we?" Emily asked Dion. "A few minutes ago I was staring at a TV and then I don't know what happened."
"Same here," Sean said. "I was doing the same thing and I don't remember what happened afterward. Something about a terrible comedy show on that was so depressing."
"Yeah," Emily agreed. "Something like that too. What happened to us?"
"It sounds like a dirty little trick my uncle would pull," Dion said. "He tried to do the same thing in a theater by showing a movie that was a veiled reference to my own life. I recognized what he was up to and left. The door was locked on the theater, but we were able to get it open. The door to the electronics store wasn't locked to me. I walked in and found you two starring at some blank screens. He wanted to trap us in a reflection of our own fear. It didn't work, so he'll come up with something else."
The rested for a while and watched the shoppers continue to file through the mall. A few minutes later, they watched a maintenance crew come and work on the door the plastic bull yanked open for Dion. The line to the bull ride died down when the kids realized it was never going to walk off the platform on its own.
"We need to go see Hobbs," Dion said. "He'll have what we need if we run into any other opposition in this part of the mall."
"It's a long way back to his part of the mall," Lilly said. "Do we still have time to reach out to him?"
"You have to know how to get there quickly," Dion explained. "For instance, that door over there works anywhere in the mall. It's one of the special passages which run all over this place."
They walked over to the door from the table and let Dion open it since he seemed to have a good relationship with the hidden parts of the mall. The door opened to reveal another long passage, but there were a few cryptic symbols on the transom, which Dion recognized. He looked at them for a few minutes and looked back to his friends.
"This one will take us right to the exterior of Hobbs' store." Dion held open the door and they walked inside the dim passage.
Lilly heard the door shut and lock behind them. "How is it you can open this door and it locks on its own?" she asked him.
"It recognized me."
It took them another five minutes to find the door that opened to the outside of Hobb's store in the other part of the mall. Dion examined a few other doors and looked at the markings over them as they passed. None of them could recognize the writing or what the cyphers meant, but they didn't want to waste time by asking Dion how he knew. As in everything else, Dion had a knack for finding his way around the mall.
Once the last door opened, they emerged to find themselves back in the section of the mall where Hobbs and his store of curiosities was located. He'd provided Dion with all kinds of things he needed on his quest. They didn't worry he might have another tool Dion would need.
When the door opened, Sean stopped and looked at the girl sitting across from the door at a table in the hallway. She had to be in her twenties, but was very tiny. At first, he thought she was younger than him, but her voice gave her away. She held some small object in her hand and appeared to be talking into it. Her hair was short, cut almost in a pageboy style, but seemed to have a pattern he hadn't notice before. She was fair of skin and had deep blue eyes, which she used to train on him.
Emily yanked on his hand and Sean tried to figure out if the object the woman held was some kind of recording device. He wanted to look at her longer as the dress she wore seemed natural and not the sort of pattern he saw anywhere around his neighborhood, where the clothing material tended toward polyester. She had the largest copper medallions dangling from her tiny ears.
Finally, Emily pulled him along and he broke contact with her eyes. Sean continued on with the rest of the group.
"You have a fiancée and don't you forget about it," Emily whispered into his ear."
The girl who talked into the rectangular object watched the group vanish into a store and returned to speaking into it. "What year did you say this was? Really? I need to put this thing away because they won't have anything like it for another twenty years. See you in five minutes." She placed the object into a purse she carried and vanished down the hall.

Chapter 9

Hobbs, the troll who supplied Dion with so many things, was waiting for the group when they stepped into his store. It resembled any other combination book and music store with too many psychedelic posters. However, the owner could get you anything you might need to battle or control the rogue elementals who wandered in silence through the mall. Dion even had a line of credit with him.
"I was expecting you today," Hobbs told him. "A package addressed to you arrived this morning, so it only made sense you would be by for it later in the day."
Hobbs reached below the counter and pulled out a box with postal labels all over it. "This one came from overseas, so whoever sent it must be using a crystal ball. It has to be a good one too, because none of the ones I carry see that much detail."
"Let's see what's in the box," Dion said as Hobbs began to open it up with a letter knife.
Lilly noticed it wasn't a regular letter opener, but one made of silver with mystic symbols on it. She guessed it came in handy if the box contained something the sender didn't want on the run once it was free.
Emily noticed a small terrarium near the wall and went over to see what it contained. She walked over to it and looked inside. There were ten large rodents in it, but they seemed to be gathered around something in the middle. At first, she thought they might be artificial, but the creatures all turned and looked at her simultaneously. She was startled to notice they were joined at the tail.
"Don't get too close to that tank," Hobbs yelled to her. "They don't like to be bothered."
"What is it?" she asked. The rodents started to move at the same time to the other side of the aquarium. She wondered how they used the exercise wheel in the opposite end of the tank.
"A rat king. Like I said, don't get too near to them, they get anxious around people. The man who bought it from me is supposed to pick it up today. You don't want to know about all the regulations I had to go through to get it brought into the country. Damn customs officer acted like I wanted to import Black Death."
The postage box was opened a few minutes later and Hobbs poured out all the packing material and picked up the shipping manifest as he pulled out the contents of the box. He carefully sat it down on the counter so everyone could look at it.
"I think I've seen one of these in a church," Emily said as she went over to the counter and looked at the object.
It was about five inches tall and made out of brass. About the top of it was engraved a seven-pointed star with words around it in Greek. It was oblong and had holes punched into the top. The top portion was removable and was attached to the bottom with a series of chains. It had a small stand on it and a wooden handle on it so it could be carried across a room when in use. The top cover was to keep wind from blowing out the coals, which were placed in the bottom of the brass container.
"What is it?" Lilly asked as she bent over the object to look at it.
"It's the censer," Dion said. "The one for use in the fire elemental part of the mall. See? The coals go in the bottom. It doesn't work unless lit, so I'm going to need some charcoal from you Hobbs."
"I have just the thing," Hobbs told him as he brought up a small package and shoved it to Dion. Next, he followed it with a pack of matches. "I know how you feel about smoking so I went out and got you some of these too. The charcoal is mixed with gunpowder so it's self-igniting. I'll put it on your bill."
"Is this the kind Edward told us about?" Lilly asked him.
Dion nodded.
"You can use this against fire elementals?" Sean asked Dion. He couldn't see how it could be used as any kind of weapon. "What happened to sacred swords and knives?"
"You pick the right tool for the right job," Dion explained. "It just so happens this little censer is what you need to contain a fire elemental. It works on everything from random spirits to full-fledged salamanders. All I need to do is light the charcoal inside, toss in some frankincense and it will pull any fire elemental into it from a hundred foot radius. Oh, shoot."
"What's wrong?" Lilly said.
"I need frankincense. Do you have any, Hobbs?"
The small man vanished behind the counter and came up with a small bag of amber crystals. "I have only the best. Blessed by a holy man in a monastery outside Beirut." He shoved it toward Dion who took the bag and placed it in the pocket of his jacket.
"Thanks, Hobbs. I wouldn't know what to do without you."
"Always glad to be of help."
Dion bade his friend and supplier farewell and then left the store with his companions. They went right to the door for the passage they used to take them to Hobb's store.
Just as before, Dion opened the door and held it for his friends to pass in front of him. He waited until they were all inside, which allowed Sean time to check for the little woman who spoke into the tiny rectangle. Dion closed it behind him as he entered it.
This time the door opened into a huge department store.
Dion and his friends looked around. People were beside them busy with their shopping as usual, and didn't notice their sudden appearance. Dion turned around and looked behind him. Perhaps he'd grabbed the wrong door.
There was no door behind them.
"Where are we?" Lilly asked. "I didn't even see the corridor we took the last time. What happened?"
Dion rubbed the back of his neck. "This sometimes happens. These temporal passages don't always work like they're supposed to work. I just hope we ended up inside the same mall we left."
"What do you mean?" Emily said. "The door opened right up to this place."
"These things don't work on physical reality. They can dump you just about any place if they're not functioning right. I've heard stories of people ending up in the middle of a jungle after they used one to get around in a building. The temporal authority is supposed to adjust them every month, but I'll bet my uncle paid someone off."
"So we don't even know where we are," Sean said.
"I don't think we're too far away from where we started," Dion explained. "Look at the people around us; they seemed to be dressed the same way were." He looked at his wristwatch and compared it to the one on the wall. "Same time too. I don't think there is much to worry about." He walked over to a lady shopping with three small children. He tapped her on the shoulder and asked for the date.
"Same date as when we last used the door," he returned and told his friends. "We're simply in a different part of the mall than where we want to be. All we need to do is find our way outside and I can continue on the quest. Shouldn't be much of a problem."
No one was familiar with the name of the department store- Crowley's- but there were many stores inside the mall they didn't know about. The four of them spread out and tried to figure out the best way out of the store. They were in some kind of huge furniture center where tables, chairs and desks made it hard to get around. As a matter of fact, it appeared the entire floor level was dedicated to furniture.
"I didn't know there were so many bedroom sets to choose from," Lilly said. "This place is full of them. How many levels are in this store? Are you sure we're in the same mall?"
Dion walked over to a window and looked outside. This had to be the same place. He could even see some cars in the parking lot he recognized from the last time today he'd looked out the window. There were in the same mall at the same time of day they'd crossed through the door. He simply had no idea what part of the mall they were inside. Other than the red color, which predominated and told him they were in the section dedicated to the fire element, he didn't know. With the map partially destroyed, there was no way to be sure.
"So no one knows where we get to the main floor," Lilly asked Dion. "I've never been inside this one before, I'm guessing it's connected somewhere to the rest of the mall, but who really knows for sure?"
"You ever been in this one?" Sean asked Emily.
She tossed her hair to one side and turned to look back at him. "No, it doesn't look familiar at all." Emily crinkled her nose and looked over at a perfume counter. Women in black were busy trying to attract the attention of shoppers who wandered by.
Dion was about to say something when he noticed a security guard wandering inside the building. This was not one of Karanzen's usual goons, this man was different, and he had a look of steel attention to him. He scanned the store with intensity, as if he was searching for something. Even the uniform he wore wasn't the same as the normal guards in the mall wore. This man was from some kind of outside contractor service. Where were the usual guards who gave him so much trouble?
Dion still had the censer with him. He was carrying it in a plain paper bag, which Hobbs used to place it inside. Hobbs didn't care for designer bags our anything else with his logo on it. His feeling was that the reputation of his shop was all he needed to make it successful. Since he was the only person in the United States who could get you certain items, word of mouth propelled him along. Dion had been there one day when he was placing a selection of arrows away from prying eyes.
"Silver-tipped," Hobbs told him. "Works against werewolves, but I'm only supposed to sell them to people in law enforcement."
Dion checked the censer inside the bag and made sure it was still intact. The charcoal and incense packages were next to it along with the matches. If any elemental in this section tried to make a run at him, he had adequate protection. It all depended on how fast he could get the charcoal lit and the incense in the chamber. Some elementals communicated by smells; they would be able to detect the censer from the other side of the room.
"Did you notice the guard," Sean said as he slipped up to him. "Something about that guy worries me. He doesn't seem to be one of the usual ones Karanzen's had around him. Does he work for the store?"
"Outside contractor," Dion said. "Check out the uniform. Not the same one Karanzen's men wear. Something odd about him."
Dion closed his eyes and left the visible circle of time where the store sat. His body might remain there, but it allowed him to see things not visible at the level where he stood. He avoided any examination of the store and focused on the security guard who was just at the edge of their visual range. And then he knew exactly what they were up against. Before he returned to his body, he looked out into the floor of the store where the guard was located and saw two more security guards. They all had the same characteristics.
Dion opened his eyes and looked at his three companions around him. "They're salamanders. The security guards in those new uniforms are fire salamanders."
"A little big for a salamander," Lilly snickered.
"Elemental salamanders come in all sizes," Dion told them. "I think this store might be another trap. My uncle has diverted us here and he doesn't want to let us out."
"He can't keep us in this place forever," Sean said.
"He doesn't have to. All he needs to do is keep me busy while he continues to cook up some scheme. This department store is part of his plan."
The four of them moved to another section of the store, this one that also sold furniture, but of a different suite. They moved around older styles of cabinets and tables, still tracking the movement of the security guards. All of the new guards appeared to be related and wore the same grey uniform. The all had red hair and wore peaked caps. None of them was using their radios for communication.
"What do we do about them?" Emily asked. She was behind a large shelf and tried to get a glimpse of the new guards without giving away their position.
"I can bind them with the censer if they get too close. All I have to do is fire it up, drop in the incense and they'll rush to it in their natural form. I'm hesitant to do it, though, because their natural form is a ball of fire. Imagine what would happen if you had fire balls shooting across the room."
"A lot of wood around here," Emily agreed. "They could set this place on fire."
"Exactly. I don't want that to happen. My uncle knows it too and it's why he's sent them. Plus they're elementals and he has bought some kind of control over them."
"I see an escalator," Lilly said. "Why don't we head for it and check out the lower level. If nothing else, it will force them to follow us."
Dion agreed and the four of them went down the moving stairs. In a few minutes, they were at the bottom of the escalator and looked up to see three of the new security guards starring down at them. As they headed away, the four friends could see the security guards walking down the escalator steps to follow them.
"I swear their eyes were burning," Lilly said.
"It wouldn't surprise me," was Dion's response. "They are born of fire, so what do you expect?"
The second floor was dedicated to bathroom furnishings. Amongst the towels, bathtubs shower stalls, they meandered around it, trying to find a way out and to stay ahead of the guards. This was not the easiest thing to do since the guards seemed to slide around the displays on the floor. Dion realized after a while they were slowly boxing them in with their technique. They didn't want to catch them so much as to force the group to remain on the floor with no hope of escape.
This became evident when the number of security guards increased to eight.
Dion had led them to a display of a traditional bathroom where the shower was separate from the tub. The towels were all neatly folded in some free standing cabinets and the paint on the fixtures smelled fresh from the factory. This was a display some visual expert created with a great amount of love and devotion. It was also big enough for them to take refuge from the security guards.
Dion stepped behind the rear of it and looked out at the floor behind him to see four more guards at the line of the wall that had them under close observation. The guards did their best not to appear interested in the part of the floor where they stood, but Dion knew otherwise. He also understood they'd count them off. There would be no way they could exit the floor without encountering one of the elemental guards.
"We're trapped," he said as he returned to the display where his friends waited. "The entire place is surrounded by these new guards." He sat the bag down he'd carried around on the toilet and looked at the censer inside. "I just might have to light this thing to get rid of them."
"Are you sure that is such a good idea?" Lilly asked. "Didn't you say they might revert to their original forms and set the place on fire?"
"It might be the only thing we can do. I'll see about bringing them closer. If they are standing about five feet from me, when I fire up the censer it might be safe to use it."
"And then we'd be surrounded by eight fireballs," Sean said. "Not really a good option."
Dion rubbed his head and looked around the corner at the guards on the wall. Still there and not moving. The guards had them surrounded. "I'm not sure we have any options left. They don't appear to move and I don't know what will happen if we make a run for it."
As Dion sat there and tried to come up with a plan, the light around them began to fade. Soon it was absorbed by the darkness, which enveloped them, and there was nothing that could be seen. This had happened before, so Dion wasn't afraid. Soon, the light returned and increased in intensity so they could see where they where.
They were in a library. It was not part of the mall and a fire blazed in the fireplace behind them. Outside, it was snowing and the drifts where high in the moonlit night. Dion looked around and saw the same big stuffed chairs, paints and books as before. He knew where they were before the door to the room opened.

Chapter 10

Once again, the door opened to reveal Edward in a smoking jacket with a glass of something in one hand. He shut the door behind him and waltzed in without a care in the world. He looked at them and sighed. It was plain to Dion he didn't care much for visitors and only brought them here when it was an absolute necessity. He seated himself on of the stuffed chairs and motioned for them to sit down in the others.
"Welcome again," Edward said. "You were trapped in that store and I am forced to break protocol and intervene again. The last time got me in a lot of trouble; I suppose my superiors will be furious at me for doing the right thing for the wrong reasons once more. However, I wasn't about to allow you to be stranded in that hideous store forever. Trust me, you weren't going anywhere. Those fire salamanders have long lifespans and would've guarded you for three lifetimes if so ordered."
"We owe you our thanks, Edward," Dion said. "I get the feeling it will be our last meeting."
"You are most correct on that observation. I have used all my allotments up and then some to bring you here. But, to the subject matter. You were in a store, which didn't have any exit you could have located. The shoppers were from a time similar to yours, but not exactly the same as your mall. The shoppers knew how to get around inside it, even if you didn't. Your uncle played unfair by confusing you with the passage redirect. I have just showed him there are people who can play even worse. I will send you back to the fireside of the mall where you stood before you decided to pick up the censer."
"What you need to understand," he continued, "is that each of these elementals has a particular stone which attracts them. The gemstone, which appeals most to the salamanders, is a fire opal, as I have said. I'm going to send you back close to a jewelry store where you can get what you need to counter anything they try to do without causing a bonfire. Just be careful because opals crack if you drop them and a broken gemstone will have no functionality."
"Got it," Dion said.
"Thanks for your help, Edward," Lilly said to him. She got up, walked over to Edward's chair and gave him a kiss on the cheek. He tried hard not to blush.
"Be gone, my lions!" he said and they vanished.
The light resumed around Dion and company to reveal themselves back in the mall. They were in another store. Not the big department store from where there was no escape, but another one. This was a small store in the main red elemental section where the concourse was easily visible from the window. They blinked and looked around.
The man behind the counter looked at them in fascination. He was bored that day, but the universe burped five seconds ago when four young people materialized into his store. He was the only one to see them because he'd been left alone by his manager. One minute he stood there and wondered when someone would come into the store and buy something, the next he faced four young kids. Either a miraculous event just took place or he was on the point of losing his mind. He betted on the second option.
Dion looked around and decided to make sure. "Is this the Fromatius Mall?" he asked the man behind the counter.
There was no point in denying what just took place. The man was there when they transferred in from Edward's study outside the time circle. Dion needed to make sure was that it was the right time circle.
"Yes it is," the man told them. "And you are on Earth. Do you want me to call the president?"
Dion starred at him in disbelief. This one was going to be a challenge. "No," he told the man. "That will not be necessary. Whom do I have the pleasure of addressing?"
"Hiram," he told Dion. "Hiram Abendroff. Are you from the other side?"
'No, we are from down the road. You possibly noticed our sudden appearance. It's from a test being conducted and you need to keep it quiet. Top-secret government stuff. What do you sell here?"
"We are the finest tableware company in the country," Hiram boasted. "You will find five place settings, seven place settings, fork, spoons, kitchen knives, pie knives and dish packs. If it needs to be on the table, we can supply it for you."
Dion and his friends began to look over the selection of forks and spoons in the store. Most were laid out in a display case where they could be picked up and examined. Most had numbers stamped on the back.
"So what's with the numbers on the back of the silverware?" Sean asked.
"Tableware," Hiram corrected. "Nothing we make here is from silver. You are using the wrong term. What we sell is made from stainless steel. The numbers you see show the percentage of nickel and other alloys used in the manufacture of the steel."
"Thanks," Sean told him. "I learn something new every day."
"I thought, perhaps, you might be from the other side because his return was predicted a long time ago," Hiram continued. "You made me hope he was about on his way back and you a vanguard."
Now all of them turned and starred at the little man behind the counter. Finally, it was Emily's turn to speak.
"We didn't mean to startle you, sir. Exactly what are you talking about?"
"This company, Anita Tableware, was founded by the Reverend Charles Obadiah over a hundred years ago. He was a minister who predicted his return from the other side someday. We have suffered through much to keep this company running because we want to be here when he returns so he can use it as a base of operations."
"I see," Dion said to him. "So you expect him to return from death and reestablish himself on Earth?"
"He never left a successor. The church became a corporation fifty years ago when we decided his time to return might be longer than we hoped. Since then, we have established stores across the world which sell our fine tableware."
"I have to admit," Lilly said as she picked up a butter knife, "they do look good. I like this style. How many do you have?"
"Four hundred and thirty-six," he told her. "What you are looking at now was personally designed by the Reverend's senior wife. She spent five months working on the pattern with his other wives until they came up with the design. It's one of my personal favorites."
"I'm sorry to disappoint you, but we are merely human," Dion said. "Just don't talk too freely about what you saw. Like I said, top secret."
"Of course. I will wait for another day to come. We have waited a long time, I can wait much longer."
They thanked him for his time and quickly vanished out the door.
"Well, that was more than a little odd," Sean said to his friends. "I guess he thought the prophet had returned and it was us."
"Must've been quite a let-down," Lilly said. "I could see the disappointment in his face."
"He'll go on hoping," Emily said. "I wonder if he'll spend the rest of his life waiting. I'm sure many people already have."
"Sometimes the waiting is the most important thing," Dion said to his companions as they headed down the hall. "So long as people like him have something to look forward to, they have a reason to get up in the morning. It's easy to laugh at them, in spite of what we've already seen here, but so many people don't have a reason to live, I'm glad when I run into someone who does. As for me, I still need to obtain full powers for the fourth element of fire."
"But anyway," Dion continued, "the next thing we have to do is find the jewelry store which sells the fire opal. It was supposed to be around here. At least Edward promised us we'd be dropped near the place that sold them."
They stopped and looked around.
The concourse was full of stores and it was difficult to tell which one was a jeweler's at a distance. The scanned the line of stores. Meanwhile, the shoppers continued to walk past them.
"I've hated shopping ever since I was a kid," Sean told Dion as he kept one hand on Emily.
"Why is that? " Sean asked him. He peered down one side of the concourse where it seemed one of the stores might be a jeweler.
"I saw Santa Clause wipe blood off a kid."
Dion whipped around. "What did you just say?"
"I was six years old at the time but I never forgot what I saw," Sean told him. "It was Christmas and we were in my dad's car waiting for my mom to come out of one of the department stores at a plaza. There was a guy inside playing Santa Claus for the holidays. Kids would go in with their parents and get their picture made. Some kid broke away from his parents and hit a glass window, busting his head. Then Santa Claus went over and fixed a bandage to his head while they waited for the ambulance to show up. I hear the kid turned out all right, the head wound looked much worse than it really was, but you can imagine the shock to a kid who had to see that. I'll be a lot of kids continued to believe in Santa Claus for years longer than they normally did."
"I don't think I ever had a Christmas memory that was bad," Dion said.
"There it is!" Lilly shouted and pointed down the concourse. "I see it!" They turned in the direction she pointed to see a large plastic diamond turn on an axis over a store.
It only took them a few minutes to reach the store, even while they constantly checked for any signs of security guards it the background. There were none, at least no one interfered with them and they reached the jewelry store without trouble.
Once inside they were greeted by a tall man in his twenties who was dressed in a suit and tie.
"Thank you for coming into Plus Diamonds," he told them. "Is there something special I can help you find?"
"I'm looking for a fire opal," Dion said. "Do you carry those?"
"I believe we do." The man slid behind a counter. He extended a hand to Dion. "Ted, I'm the manager at this branch."
"Glad to meet you, Ted, I'm Dion and these are my friends."
Ted unlocked the glass case with a key on his ring and pulled out a selection of them mounted on a small rack. He sorted through the gemstones on the rack and pulled a ring off after he'd glanced at them carefully.
"This is one of two rings we have and it is in a sterling silver setting. Note the fine work that has gone into its construction. We can have it sized to specification, but it will take a week because our jeweler comes by every three days. I can size you right now or you can bring it back later to have it done with a sales slip." He handed the ring to Dion.
Dion held it to the light and looked at the pattern in the opal. It was a brilliant red and just what he needed according to Edward. He gave it to Lilly to try on. It fit her to perfection. The ring matched the glow on her face. Lilly went over to mirror on the counter and examined it on her hand. She turned and smiled at Dion.
"I'll take it," Dion told the manager.
"Good, an excellent choice. Let's take it to the counter and I'll ring the sale and get you a box for it."
It only took a few more minutes for them to conclude the transaction and soon Lilly was leaving the store with the ring on her finger.
"You see," the manager said to one of his clerks who'd come out of the back room after the sale was finished, "this is why I like my job. You saw the look on her face? The glow lit up the entire store."
"I thought we'd never sell that thing," the clerk replied to him. "It's been in the case for the past five months. At least I don't have to count it tonight for inventory."
"So this ring will repel the fire elementals," Lilly said as she held it up to the light while they walked down the concourse. "Thank you for giving it to me, Dion. I know you bought it for protection, but I'm glad you allowed me to wear it just the same."
"I can't imagine anyone more deserving," he said. "You've been with me all the way through this quest. I just want to finish getting my parents back." He stroked her cheek and she looked up at him with big eyes.
"So when do we get to see the ring in use?" Sean asked Dion. "I didn't get to see you take out the bull on the first day. Will it work something like that?"
"It depends on the elemental," Dion said. "My guess is that it puts them in a holding pattern, but we'll know the first time any of the fire elementals makes a run at me."
'I think we might just find out real soon," Emily said. "Look to your right."
Coming down the side passage was a detachment of five of the new security guards. All wore the same grey uniforms they'd noticed earlier and had a build close enough to each other to be family. The red-haired guards marched down the hall, carefully sliding past the shoppers and doing their best not to be noticeable.
Shoppers turned with curiosity and agitation as the guards marched past them. A group of uniformed men was bound to attract attention. Several young mothers grumbled and pulled their kids out of the way as they guards slid past. A few more shoppers stopped to try to figure out where they were headed. One man jumped out of the way so he wouldn't collide with them.
"You think we should move?" Sean asked Dion. "I get the funny feeling they're headed for us."
Dion started to agree and turned to see three more coming from the north of the main concourse. This group, also with red hair and wearing the grey uniforms, were focused on him. There was no question the elemental security guards wanted to capture them. Lilly's fire opal ring was about to be put to a trial run.
Dion considered using the censer, but there were too many people in the concourse. He still didn't know if it would create a wall of fire when activated. He might lure them outside and try to use it where the heat wouldn't be a problem. Dion turned and looked for an exterior door to the parking lot, but couldn't find one. He would have to try to use the ring. Edward claimed the fire elementals could be bound by the use of it.
Time to find out.
"Hello, gentlemen," Dion said to the elementals as they surrounded him. "I don't see Officer Karanzen anywhere. Is he still employed by the mall?"
"I haven't been fired yet," a familiar voice announced through the crowd. They looked up to see Karanzen pushing his way through the group of shoppers that surrounded them. He was wearing the same uniform from yesterday. Whoever had brought the elemental guards in hadn't insisted he change his uniform to meet the new style.
"Did I tell you guys to do this?" he said to the guards in grey. "In case you haven't been informed, I am still the post lieutenant and you take your orders from me."
"You didn't summon us," the guard nearest to Karanzen said. "Therefore you do not tell us what to do. We were instructed to isolate these four. They are now isolated. We await further instructions on what to do with them."
"Are you as stupid as you look?" Karanzen asked him. "You're causing a major scene here in the mall. Now get out of the way, I'll deal with them, it's my job. You are scaring the shoppers with your attitude."
The guard bent over to Karanzen and looked directly in his eyes.
Karanzen was back in Korea. He huddled under a snow-covered slope. In the distance, there was rifle fire and he could hear voices in Mandarin all about him.
Dion watched as the security chief went into a catatonia. Whatever the elementals could do, it was tied into whoever summoned them. He betted on his uncle, but did his uncle know about the power of a fire opal?
"Lilly," Dion whispered to her. "Your ring. Raise it up so they can see it."
Lilly stepped forward and brought her hand into the air. The gemstone in the ring caught the light from the window and tossed a reflection across the fire elemental salamanders as it struck them. Now Dion and his friends would find out what it could do.
All seven of them froze as the plastic bull had done days earlier. But unlike the plastic bull, they walked forward to Lilly and fixed their gaze on the ring. Like the bull, all of them were mesmerized and fixed their attention on the fire opal. The guard who'd stared at Karanzen turned to it and his eyes glazed over.
"Tell them to safely leave the corridor," Dion further whispered to Lilly. "Safely. I don't want any burning pillars."
"You see this ring?" she asked them to be sure. All of the guards nodded to her.
"Return from where you came in safety," she commanded. "There are to be no fires."
There was a pop and the security guards were gone. The shoppers who were gathered around shook their heads, unable to believe people could leave so quickly. They glanced around, saw no circle of guards and went about their business.
"Where did they go?" Karanzen asked them, still coming out of his gaze. He too glanced around and didn't see a thing.
"Lilly sent them away," Dion told them. "Guess they listened to some of us."
Karanzen grumbled about amateurs who tried to upstage him and walked away. The four stood in place and watched him leave.
"Still leaves more of them," Dion said. "If they were summoned, it had to be in a group of twelve."
"So there are more salamanders out there?" Sean asked him.
"Yes, and my uncle can get more if he wants to do so. He can get just about all he needs until I have full powers. There isn't much we can do to stop him, but it will take him some time. If he knows what happened, and we can assume he did, he'll be ordering up some more fire elementals. I don't know how effective the ring is against more than seven at a time, but I'm speculating it's not good for real big groups. We may find out soon enough."

Chapter 11

Karanzen slammed the door to the antechamber where his office was located and walked inside. He looked at the empty secretary's desk and wondered when they would hire one for him. Right now, everything clerical went through the clock tower and no one was allowed into Seth Bach's Holy of Holies. It was written into the rental contracts that no one was allowed into the "Central Administrative Center" unless given written permission from upper management. There was a small office outside it where a staff processed payroll all day and did the legal dance needed to keep the various local governments happy, but no one even considered approaching the clock tower interior.
He opened the door to his office and started to walk inside when he heard a cough from inside. Karanzen reached for the light switch and turned it on to see Matt, Seth Bach's toadie, sitting behind his desk. Matt had a folder in his hand and Karanzen didn't have to ask to find out what it meant.
"Hello, Karanzen," Matt said to him. "I've talked this morning to Seth Bach personally and we're in agreement that you just don't fit in around here. You have failed repeatedly in an important security task to keep a dangerous group of people from entering this mall. We can no longer afford to keep you as part of this company. You can't do the most essential part of your job."
Matt dropped the folder on the desk. "You'll find all the necessary legal documents in her which will give you a thirty day severance package and allow you time to find another job. I'm sure you will agree this is a most generous offer. All you need to do is sign it and clean out your desk. Take your time cleaning out the desk because I've decided to devote the entire day to helping you get your things out of the building."
Karanzen stood there, unable to believe this smarmy little toad was dismissing him from the mall. There had to be some kind of mistake. He'd talked to Seth Bach recently and no mention was made of instant termination. What was going on here?
He ignored Matt and went over to the desk, grabbing the phone from the other side. Karanzen punched out the emergency number for the clock tower, but the phone continued to give him a dial tone.
"You are wasting your time," Matt informed him. "The phone now runs direct to the tower. If you can't dial a number it means they don't want to talk to you."
"Who are you to come into my office and give orders to me?" Karanzen yelled at Matt. "I have served in places where they would've fried you up on a plate. The only reason you are here is because you do Seth Bach's dirty work for him."
"Indeed I do. As a matter of fact, this whole rapid dismissal was my idea. I told Bach it was a better idea to get rid of you and find someone else."
"What did he say when you came up with it?"
"He gave me full support; notice the signature at the bottom of this letter." Matt held it up so Karanzen could see it. There it was: the cursive handwriting of the mall owner.
The now former security chief looked down at the corporate tool beneath him and thought about the many things he could do and no one would be the wiser. However, someone had to know he was down here. Which meant the little dung pile would be missed. The sort of thing Karanzen wanted to do only took place in movies and TV shows where rain coated police detectives hummed the conclusion twenty years later. Real life was undergoing the humiliation of leaving the office with a pile of boxes in his hands.
He knew it was about to come to this. The mall management hadn't listened to him and refused to do what was needed to keep Dion out. The kid managed to get in somehow and was on his way to meet the last elemental grandmaster. There was very little he could do right now other than plant something on Dion and call the cops. He wasn't above doing that; it had worked for him several times before. He couldn't unleash his own supernatural abilities on Dion since the kid was an advanced elemental master. Right now, the only one who could oppose him at that level was his uncle.
"I still want to talk to Seth Bach," Karanzen said. "I want to hear from him personally that I'm sacked."
Karanzen handed the phone to Matt. "As a matter of fact, I want you to call him on whatever secret number you have at your disposal. I'm sure you have an unlisted line that you can use. Since you are such an important person around here, Matt, you should have no trouble doing it."
Matt hung the phone back up on the cradle. "I don't think so, Karanzen. He no longer wants to speak to you. Your term of service is over, don't you get it? Now just pack your things up and get out of here before I have to call the police."
"Call the police?" Karanzen returned to him. "I think they are the last people you would want to come here. What a scene in the parking lot it might make! Former security officer led off in cuffs because he failed to keep one young kid out of the mall. People might want to know why this local kid was supposed to be kept away from the mall. They might learn he is related to the man who owns this mall. I could see all kinds of trouble from the police because of me."
"You have more to lose than anyone here, Karanzen. You forget we have all your service records on file. You want us to make them available to the right people? I think some of the men you abandoned in Korea might still have families around here. They'd like to know the full story of what happened at the Chosin Reservoir."
"I'm sure they might," Karanzen countered. "Just as all kinds of federal agencies might want to know about the abyss this mall sits over. I'm sure you'll have all kinds of people want to come here when they learn the mall is located over a gate to hell."
Karanzen sat down in a chair next to the desk and looked at Matt. "So why don't you call the big man and get him on the phone and we can talk like adults. I don't know why he has to send a boy to do a man's job.
The door flew open to the antechamber and Karanzen got up to see who it was. He assumed it was one of his dismissed guys on his way back to pick up a missing personal item. All of this would have run smoother if he had his own clerical support, but, like everything else, Seth Bach wanted it all to run through the clock tower. In the beginning, he was told there would be more help as needed, but it never seemed to materialize. Karanzen decided it had to do with budgetary concerns as the early stage, but he noticed items his employer wanted that didn't generate profit could always find a place in the budget.
"Just wait a minute," Karanzen said to Matt. "Somebody's walked into the office and I need to see who it is. Don't you go running off now." He turned and walked into the main room.
The door was still open when he walked into the next room, although there was no one in it. The outer office appeared to be in the same state he'd left it earlier in the day. The same faded curtains were against the wall, although it didn't have a window. Most of the files were kept in his office, so there was none of the bulky cabinets in most places which carried out the same function. He looked down at the floor and realized it needed cleaning, but the condition of the office was not in the front of his mind.
Karanzen walked over to the door and placed his hand on the knob. Who had tossed it open? Was it some kid trying to cause trouble again? Just let them try to maintain order around here without him keeping things under wraps. He could see Matt in a uniform as he attempted to explain to a ten-year-old kid that he couldn't walk out with whatever he wanted. Or break-up a fight between a clerk and a customer who got in his face. This is what they employed him to do and his team was experts in keeping incidents under control. What would happen when those red-haired zombies were in charge? No one would even consider the mall if they were all over it.
He decided to have a look in the hall before he closed the door. Just maybe there would be some punk in flight down the hall. Usually the little miscreants weren't smart enough to consider what would happen If he caught up with one of them.
The whole world seemed to change faster than he could manage. Just the other day he'd ran into a lady in the parking lot living out of her car. Her only companion was a small wiry dog. He'd noticed them parked out on the edge of the lot and walked over to see what they were doing there. This was before the entire parking lot was under his guards' surveillance, but he was still trying to keep that kid Dion out of the mall when he saw her.
The lone car, a station wagon, struck him as a little bit strange as it sat out there by itself. Instead of sending one of his guys over to check it out, Karanzen decided to look into it himself. The car wasn't in the best shape, but he'd seen worse ones in the lot. Even owned by people with money.
As he approached the car, Karanzen heard the dog yapping at him. He nodded at the person behind the wheel, unsure of what sex they were. They driver was slight and had an army cap on, but didn't appear to be a veteran.
"That's a pretty dog," he said to her. "Are you okay? Do you need any help?"
"Oh, no," the driver laughed. "I just came by to pick up some clothes." By the voice, he could tell he addressed a woman. She had her head shaved close, something he'd never seen before, but it was hard to tell with the cap pushed down on her head. Her ears were pierced in several places, something else he'd never seen before.
Karanzen petted her dog, which seemed friendly enough. After a few minutes, he deduced she was some kind of traveler who went from one campsite to the next. She was young enough to have the luxury to wander the earth. He would have liked to discover her backstory, but there wasn't time. He told her to check in with the security office if she needed any help, but the woman assured him her car was in excellent shape. As a matter of fact, she was a part-time auto mechanic.
Karanzen had her on his mind as he stepped out into the hall. He was thinking about the woman when he looked down the hall and encountered the mob of security guards, all of whom were dressed in grey with red hair. There had to be about twenty-four of them in the hall outside the office.
Before he could say another word, the guards shoved him back into the office. The sheer force of the bodies sent him flying backwards into the wall on the other side of the room. Karanzen slammed into it as the guards flowed over him, grabbing his arms and pinning him in place. Any six of them he could've handled, but he was outnumbered by the mob. As he swore curses on their future and past generations, the guards grabbed him and pushed him along into the inner office. His inner office, which was occupied by Seth Bach's chief stooge, Matt.
"I told you," Matt said to the struggling form of Karanzen, "things have changed in the way this mall is administered. You are no longer in charge of security. You've forced me to take drastic measures and now I have to decide what to do with you because you wouldn't go. Why did you force me to do this?"
"Do what, you little punk?" Karanzen struggled to say something to Matt. "Tell these creeps to let me go or I'll show you what I can really do."
"I'm afraid you still don't understand, Karanzen," Matt sneered. "You are no longer able to give anyone a scare. Don't you realize who we are?"
Karanzen looked at the crew around him who held him in place. They were all elementals. It was the only explanation he could come up with. The new guards had to be some kind of fire elemental.
"They're all fire salamanders, aren't they? I should have figured out by the way they looked. The temperature is already too high in this place. You've found some cheap elementals to work security and think you got a good deal on them. Well guess again, Buck-o, because they will never replace humans for the job. I don't care how hot this place can get because the temperature doesn't affect me. What happens when you get a whole room full of them in your glorious mall? They'll set off every fire alarm in the place. What happens when they decide they don't want to play by your rules any longer? You'll end up with the entire mall in flames."
"You just don't like it you've lost another command, do you? "You're done, old man. We no longer want or need you in this place."
Matt was another kind of elemental, one Karanzen didn't have any experience with. Matt was a sphinx, but the security chief didn't know it. Just as Karanzen kept his real form private, so did Matt. His natural form was part lion and part eagle. Matt guarded the tomb of a pharaoh from beyond the circles of time and did so for the ten thousand years. He did his job so well, no one dared approached the tomb during the time he kept watch over it. It was a dull job, but he enjoyed it.
Every few years, someone was stupid enough to try to pry into the tomb. Matt would eagerly await their approach and hide himself behind a rock or in a sand pit. There were plenty of those in the valley where he dwelt. Once he got the job, the management preferred he didn't bother them with the petty details on how many tomb robbers were intercepted or what he had to do to eliminate them. Should any they're make it past his watch, his career would be finished and he sent back to the abyss... So long as he kept them out, he could always count on employment.
He grew to play with his victims after a few thousand years. The first thousand or so he spent perfecting his technique. It wasn't for at least the second hundred years the humans learned to quit the direct approach to his jurisdiction. The poor pharaoh was only dead five days when the first fools decided to break into the tomb and loot it.
They didn't even make it to the front door.
Matt remembered that one very well. One man had a mattock over one shoulder and a rope coiled around his body. Another carried several bags with him, as they intended to use them to haul off whatever gold could be claimed. It was night when they approached the tomb and Matt let them walk within ten yards of it before he made his move. After all, the men might have been in route to some other tomb. There were plenty of tombs in the valley, which didn't employ supernatural guards. Most were looted soon after their occupant was interred. Some of them couldn't afford the cost of the upkeep and they fell into ruin. Some had guardians that did little more than harass the thieves.
But the pharaoh who hired his services could afford the best and made sure he had the most effective security he could buy. So when the first thief approached the tomb, Matt was ready. The man pleaded with him, but Matt would have none of it. He knew the law and what happened to tomb thieves who broke it. If he hadn't taken the stories seriously, perhaps others would in the future. In fact, when Matt sent the bodies back to the next of kin, no further tomb thieves attempted to break into the Pharaoh's crypt for another five years.
But it never stopped them. Eventually someone would get the bright idea they could dance into the tomb and take whatever they wanted. And then Matt would appear. By then, it was too late. Only once in the years had he overlooked the sins of a tomb thief. He remembered her very well because he stopped her from walking into his territory.
Each of the tomb guardians had a specific area they monitored. There were no guardians at any of the tombs next to the one he watched, so Matt spent many evenings sitting on top of the pharaoh's tomb and watched thieves break into the ones next to the one he guarded. They quit doing it after the first thousand years because everyone knew they were empty by then. The thieves would stare at the tomb he watched, decide it wasn't worth the risk when they saw the bones that which surrounded it, and leave.
But one young lady decided to make the attempt five thousand years into the job. Matt watched her walk up the trail and stop to look at the bones he used to decorate the perimeter. Bones lasted a long time and served as the best "Keep Out" sign imaginable. He could see her think about it from his location. As she put her foot on the line etched in the sand, Matt made his appearance.
"You really don't want to do that," he told her. He'd used his standard human form, because it seemed she should have the option of using free will to determine whether or not to cross the line. As long as he gave her a warning, he might as well do it in human form.
She was startled and backed up. "Why is that?" she asked him.
Matt gave her credit. She didn't panic and run as he'd expected.
"Because if you don't, I get to eat you," he informed the potential tomb robber. "There hasn't been anything of value in the tombs around the one I watch in thousands of years. But the one I watch is still intact since I'm on a long-term contract. Now turn around and leave before I change my mind. You have crossed the line and it's within my contract to consider you fair game."
The woman turned and fled. He never made the same offer again for some reason.
"So you're also an elemental," Karanzen said to the grinning figure of Matt. "I can't imagine how he got control of you. At least these ginger boys have an excuse; he's worked some kind of spell over them."
"Some of us don't have to be bound," Matt said. "Trust me, I like this job better than the last one I had and the pay isn't too bad."
It was sometime during year eight thousand that Matt decided the job was no longer fun. The idiots who approached the tomb thinned out by year five thousand and he was forced to get creative by year six thousand. He came up with the questions by year seven thousand. As a sphinx, Matt had access to all manner of forbidden knowledge the humans didn't. It dawned on him that to allow the robbers a chance to answer a question would make the assignment interesting for a change. He consulted a few other sphinx guardians who told him they'd done that too for several thousand years and only once had a human beat them.
Matt liked those odds and compiled a huge list of questions to ask anyone he caught who attempted to break into the pharaoh's tomb. Since he knew ten other sphinx guardians who'd done the same thing for thousands of years, it didn't take him long to come up with his list.
The way it worked was simple. If a thief answered his question correctly, they could live. They wouldn't be allowed to take any treasure with them; such a thing would violate his contract. But they could live to tell their friends and family what happened when they ventured into the land around the forbidden tomb. If they guessed wrong, the thief was added to the pile of bones which surrounded the tomb.
For some reason, no one ever answered the questions he put to them correctly. Ever riddle he hit them with was answered wrong. This puzzled him for a long time until Matt realized the thieves were not from the most educated classes.
One day, a man appeared at the entrance to the tomb. The bones formed an entire wall around the pharaoh's tomb by then and Matt was forced to wait for the occasional fool who tried to scale them. He hadn't had a break-in attempt in months. The last victim agonized for two hours over the question he put to him and Matt was forced to end it when it was painfully obvious he didn't know.
The man pushed the bones aside and walked into the perimeter of the tomb's territory. Matt watched him come over the rise from the next tomb, which was crumbled by neglect, when he saw the man walk past the wall. Thrilled to have some new entertainment, Matt appeared next to him in full terrifying sphinx form.
"If a ship sank on the border between Egypt and Libya," Matt asked him. "Where would the survivors be buried?"
"The survivors would not be buried anywhere because they survived," the man said to him with a big smile on his face.
Matt was stunned. Never before had anyone answered one of his riddles correctly. He'd used that one twelve times, but no one ever figured out the paradox inside it. Perhaps the sudden appearance of a sphinx unnerved them, but they never once got it right.
"Very good," Matt told him. "You get to live. You should also know that you are the first person who has ever solved one of my riddles."
"You must have some really stupid people coming in here," the man said to him.
"You have to wonder how bright a person is that would rob a tomb guarded by me," Matt agreed. "And they all know I'm guarding the pharaoh's tomb. What idiot tries to make it past me just for a chance at some gold cups?"
"Quite a few from these bones."
"Now please go," Matt said. "You get to live because you solved my question. Stay here any longer and I'll have to eat you."
"I'll go, but can you answer one of my questions?"
"I'll certainly try."
"Would you like to come and work for me? I could use a good sphinx."
And so Matt the sphinx made the acquaintance of Seth Bach, the builder over the abyss. He ended up going to work for the real estate developer and found it much more rewarding than attacking people who tried to raid tombs. The clientele might be the same, but they were easier to deal with once you didn't have to eat them.
"So you see, Karanzen," Matt told him. "They answer to me now. All I have to do is tell them to get rid of you and you'll be a pile of ash. So why don't you just leave the mall peaceably and not cause me any problems?
"Who said we work for you?" one of the security guards snapped at Matt.
"Who else could you be working for?" he demanded. "Seth Bach summoned the last ones. He's summoned you too and I work for him as well in the operations department. This means I have dominion over you. Case closed."
"It doesn't work that way because we weren't summoned by your boss," one of the other security guards said. "Since he didn't call us up, he can't put us down. So no, we don't have to follow your orders."
"Then what are all of you doing here?"
"We want to know what happened to our comrades who were summoned here and disappeared. A few of them made it back after encountering a young lady with a fire opal. How did she know fire opals could put us in a daze? Your master brought us here to deal with some young kid, or so we were told. It seems the target was not as easy as we were told. We want our friends back before we do any more jobs for him. Since they were sent down here, it was the reasonable place to look for them. Now tell us where we can find them!"
"Looks like you little plans have run into an iceberg," Karanzen told Matt. "Guess I don't have to worry about the consequences because I don't work here anymore."
"You can't talk to me like that!" Matt snapped at the security guards. "Do you have any idea what I can do to you?"
"Do you have any idea what our combined strength can do to you?"
"I'm a sphinx, you idiots. I'm made out of stone. This is just a convenient form I use. This form is made out of stone too, although I look just as human as the next man does. Now get out of my way. You can't burn stone!"
"Ever see molten rock? Lava? Magma? I think you should reconsider."
"Boys," Karanzen said. "I am out of here. Matt, have fun, it couldn't happen to a more deserving person."
The next second, Karanzen was gone, replaced by a cloud of flies. The flies buzzed all over the back office and spread everywhere until they pulled together and swarmed out of the room. In a few seconds, the flies could be heard in the hallway as they made for the nearest outside exit.
"So what happened to them?" the security guards said to the human version of Matt, whom they had cornered in the office. "Talk or we turn this entire wing of the mall into a volcano. And we can do it."
"I don't doubt you can," Matt told them, "but you'll have to deal with someone else as I'm needed elsewhere."
And he vanished. The chair behind the security chief's desk was empty.
"You forgot to tell us he could do that," one of the security salamanders said to their leader, who had stood directly across from Matt before his disappearance."
"Guess that leaves the kid they were supposed to corner," he said. "We'll need to find him if we want to know what happened to our people. Anyone know where he might be?"
"I'd expect it would be in the fire element section of the mall," another one of them said.
"Okay, let's go find him."

Chapter 12

"Dion, you are in great danger," a voice said to his left. Dion turned to see the form of his grandfather standing next to him. The old man had appeared out of nowhere, but he was used to it by now. Even his three companions didn't find the sudden appearance to be of much issue.
"I've been in danger ever since I began this quest," he told the older man. "What could possibly be worse?"
"Fire elementals. Salamanders are on their way here. You need to get out of the building right away. Take the nearest emergency exit. I've disabled the alarm, you can use it with your friends to leave the building."
"Why can't I tackle them inside the mall?"
"Too risky. They might burn the entire mall down in their anger. Several of their number was lost when your friend with the fire opal banished them today. They want to know where their companions are, but there is no way to know because the opal caused them to lose their sense of direction. Just get out now. I have to go. Bye." And his grandfather vanished.
Dion turned to look at the emergency exit door on the other side of the concourse. He was close to this final destination, but he could not ignore this threat.
"We have to get out of here," Dion told his friends as he took Lilly by the hand and hauled her to the door. Sean and Emily followed them.
Minutes later, they were outside the mall. Dion walked around the perimeter of the mall and saw no sign of the security guards. He walked with his friends and headed in the direction of the parking lot. There still were quite a few empty sections in it.
Dion walked around in the lot and waited. If his grandfather was right, they would be here very soon. He couldn't understand why they held him guilty for the loss of the other fire elementals, but these creatures were not known to be the most rational of beings. At least he still had the censer in the bag next to him.
"You want me to hold the bag?" Lilly asked him.
"No, I'll hold onto it for now."
Sean stood there in the parking lot with Dion and waited. He seemed to feel something was about to happen. It wouldn't surprise him. Nothing in this mall made the least bit of sense. He stood there with Emily and waited. It was hard to think of her as his fiancée, but Sean slowly adjusted to the idea. They had been through so much these past few days and knew more about each other than he'd believed possible before the adventure with the air sylphs. It wasn't over yet and he wondered how Dion would deal with this latest challenge.
They were both about to find out.
Two minutes later the security guards poured out of the same door Dion had taken with his friends to leave the building. Dion counted at least thirty of them and the shoppers entering the mall stopped to look at the grey mob that flowed out to the parking lot. The security guards spotted Dion and company. They made a straight line to them. Dion stood his ground and watched the horde of elemental fire salamander's march across the lot in their direction.
Fifty feet from contact, the salamanders fanned out into a pattern which enveloped Dion and his friends. As the sylphs had tried before, the fire elementals moved into position rapidly and had them completely surrounded in seconds. This time they executed the maneuver with perfection and the four of them were in the middle of a fire elemental mob. Dion knew that all the salamanders had to do was increase the temperature slowly enough and they would be cooked.
"Where are the ones you sent back?" the fire elemental nearest to him demanded. They all had names, but Dion lacked the time to learn any of them.
"Didn't they return to your realm?" he asked. "They were sent back to wince they came. I assumed it was your realm."
"Enough of the jokes, kid," the elemental who faced him thundered. "We're here on our own. We don't work for your uncle so we don't care what happens to your or anyone else in this mall. Now tell us where they can be found or learn what a fly under a magnifying glass feels."
"Are you threatening me?" Dion placed his hands to each side and concentrated.
The fire elementals began to glow. Each one of them started to heat up and even at the distance they stood from Dion and his friends they could feel the heat rise from them and began to work its way toward them. The asphalt in the parking lot started to buckle and the painted lines on it began to change from a bright yellow to an ugly brown. Sean could feel the sweat on his brow began to drip off his face.
It lasted just long enough for the heat to become uncomfortable. Lilly looked to Dion with fear as the elementals began to burst into fire around them. She found herself in the middle of pillars of fire and no way to escape. Surely, Dion had to do something, didn't he?
A clap of thunder changed everything. She felt the cool breeze of spring roll through the parking lot as the sky darkened. Seconds later the rain began to fall. First, it was just small drops but in minutes, it turned into a torrential downpour with sheets of rain that drenched the earth. The fire elementals began to send up clouds of steam as the rain washed over them. Lilly saw the glow on each of them recede in the path of the rainstorm and fade. She too was drenched from the storm, but at least it felt cool inside their midst, not deadly hot as it had felt moments ago. Soon, the salamander elementals were back to their human form in wet grey uniforms. They continued to stand in place as the rain pounded them.
A large puddle of water gathered around Dion and friends were they stood and turned into a small pond. It encompassed the elementals as the water began to flow up from the ground. They were in a part of the parking lot where there weren't too many cars, but it was plain to see the water had cooled the fire elementals to the point where they couldn't do any further damage.
"You want this to continue?" Dion asked them. "You know I can freeze each of you in place if I desire to do so. I'm thinking it would be a good time for all of you to leave."
There was a flash of light and the fire elementals were gone. Dion closed his eyes, concentrated some more and the sky began to clear as the clouds dispersed. In a few minutes, the storm was over and the rain ceased. The clouds rolled back and the sun returned to the sky. As the water sank back into the earth, the ground around them began to dry.
They were soaked. All four were in the midst of the storm which Dion had unleashed. Sean and Emily knew better than to complain because Dion had saved them all. Had the elementals increased their heat output, they would have all cooked by now. Once again, he'd found a way to thwart the elementals, although this time it appeared they weren't under the control of Dion's uncle.
"What are we going to do about our appearance?" Lilly asked Dion. "We can't go back in the mall soaked the way we are."
"Give me a second," Dion said. "There have to be a few fire elementals left around here. The salamander's display should have attracted some attention." He concentrated until he found one nearby and made a deal with it.
A small fireball leaped from the ground and into the air. Seconds later, it had bloomed over them and sent radiant heat down on all four. With the help of a few air sylphs, Dion was able to direct enough drying heat on him and his three companions to get the water out of their clothing. It felt as if they were in a big clothes drier, which in fact they were.
"I assumed you would use that censor against them," Lilly said to Dion. "But you didn't. Care to tell us why?"
"I don't think the censer will work more than once," Dion explained. "Plus, I don't think I could have made it work in enough time. In any event, we still have it to use if we need it."
"I'll keep that in mind," Sean said. "I don't want to tangle with those creeps again."
Dion felt the warmth from the small fire elemental pour over him and considered what his next move might have to be. His uncle was deadly serious about taking him down or at least keeping him away from the final elemental grandmaster. The salamanders might be running independently, but they still wanted him out of the way. They didn't trust anyone and held him responsible for the loss of their comrades. Where had those other elementals gone when Lilly banished them with her fire opal ring? He assumed the realm of their birth, but might they have decided to venture somewhere else? There was no way he could know.
"Is everyone dry?" Dion asked his friends. They nodded.
"I'm dry," Emily told him, "but I feel like a mess. I'll have to have my hair redone soon. That storm ruined it."
Dion looked up at the small elemental over him and gave it permission to leave. The fireball condescended into a small sphere and then a flame no bigger than a lit match. A single spark fell to the ground and rolled away. He watched it as the trail of smoke zipped across the parking lot and was soon gone.
"Of all the elementals you've run up against here," Lilly told him. "Those have to be the worst. They are the most dangerous ones. You can't argue it."
"They're all potentially dangerous," Dion said. "It all depends how you work with them. I've done it on a small scale all my life, so I know what to watch out for. An ordinary person and could get into some very bad trouble."
"Lilly," Dion continued. "You've been with me the entire week through this quest. You could have left at any time, but you've stayed with me. Why?"
"I can't help but notice how you've carried yourself all the time," she told him. "I wouldn't want to be anywhere else."
"You've got college already planned, haven't you?"
"Of course, haven't you?"
"Depends on what happens today. So much has to do with rescuing my parents. I don't think beyond what happens until I can get them out. And I want you to keep that ring, by the way."
Lilly looked up at him and didn't know what to say. "Why? Don't you want it back? It's expensive?"
"You can keep it until I get you one of gold."
Lilly threw her hands around Dion's neck and kissed him. "That is the most wonderful thing anyone has ever said to me."
"I figure it gives you and Emily enough time to start planning," he told her. "We can make it a double wedding."
Lilly held on to him and didn't know what to say. Although she'd known Dion the entire school year, she hadn't been close with him until this week. What would her parents' say? And did she care?
At that very moment her joy was so intense she failed to notice the swarm of flies, which appeared out of nowhere.
The flies buzzed all around them, but failed to land on any one of them. Soon, the cloud of flies was so intense it was hard to see and the noise they made drowned out any sound over five feet away. They were still alone in this part of the parking lot and didn't have to worry about anyone else. The cloud of flies pulled back and formed a shape next to them as it condescended into a human form. They stood and watched as the manikin made of flies slowly transformed into a human.
It was Officer Karanzen. He was still in his uniform.
"You don't have to worry about me anymore, Dion," he told them. "Your uncle no longer needs my services. He's decided to replace me with some fool named Matt, who's an elemental himself. I guess he thinks it will save him money. He even got rid of my staff and replaced them with that crew with red hair."
"You may not believe me, Officer Karanzen," Dion said, "but I am sorry to hear this. When did you get the word?"
"About fifteen minutes ago. Right before those bumpkins tried to take you out in the parking lot. When I found out they were in charge, I left the office."
"And now they work for no one," Dion said. "Something my uncle has done made them very angry. You really don't want to get a creature made of fire mad at you. Even if you have the power of the fifth element."
"That corporate kid Matt is one of them too. Not from the fire elements, but from the abyss, the realm of the aether. He's a sphinx in human form, I found out. I think he used to guard a pharaoh's tomb until you uncle found him and made a good offer."
"Something else I will have to consider. So where do you plan on going next, officer?"
"I'm not sure right now. Because of my condition, as I like to call it, I can go just about anywhere I please. I want to get out of this place as soon as I can. Too many bad memories."
"I can understand how that would happen. It doesn't have many good ones for me either." Dion looked at Lilly. "Well, a few, but not too many."
Lilly beamed back at him.
"You take care, kid. And watch out for your uncle. The man is terrified of you, but he won't admit it."
Karanzen began to melt into a diffuse form that turned into the cloud of flies a few seconds later. They stood and watched as the cloud broke down into its individual parts and swarmed across the parking lot. In a few minutes, it was over the field, which surrounded the mall, and then it vanished.
"What do you think will happen to him?" Lilly asked Dion.
"I really don't know. But I do know one thing."
"What's that?" Sean said.
"I need to get to the Hades restaurant and chili parlor. Right away."

Chapter 13

By the time they were back into the mall, the crowd watching the engagement between the security guards and Dion was gone. Once the security guard fire elementals vanished, so did the onlookers from the concourse. People would go home and talk about some kind of "altercation" in the parking lot, but it would die down in a few months. No one really had the time to worry about such things.
They walked through the entrance door to the mall and continued in the direction of the chili parlor.
Even without the map, Dion could find the Hades restaurant where the best chili in Ohio was served, as the advertisements proclaimed. The smell of cumin filled the air as they approached it and the scent of cooked red beans mixed with the brown meat scent in the air. As usual, there was already a line formed outside the place.
The exterior of the restaurant was designed to resemble a small cantina far south of the Rio Grand. Michael Hades claimed he'd passed such a place on his way north when he fled from the vengeful army of Don Gordo after he'd memorized the sacred recipe. On some nights when the place was slow, he would elaborate on the story and tell people in the restaurant a most amazing tale.
In the elaborate version of the story, Hades had two horses shot out from under him by the guapos who vowed to bring him back to the Padron's justice and restore his family honor. Under the light of the full moon, he'd crawled across the barren lands outside a remote town near Savona where he happened on the lone cantina. Once inside he was forced to use his charms and impress a mere kitchen maid who worked there. She hid him in the basement for the night until the gunmen from Don Gordo had passed by and no longer searched for him. From there he returned to Ohio and soon had the restaurant up and running, he paid coyotes at the border tenfold the money they usually received to smuggle people across the Rio Grande to bring her to El Norte. He celebrated her arrival with a huge wedding where peace was declared between the various factions in her town. Even Don Gordo was so impressed he called off his guapos.
If you lingered around the restaurant long enough, after Hades left for the day, the help might tell you their version of the story. They would tell you how he found the cantina design in a comic book and used it as the front piece for his restaurant. His lovely senora wife was from Albuquerque and her family had lived there six generations. Far from being a lowly kitchen maid, her father owned the largest grocery store in town and she'd attended private schools until leaving for college. Mr. Hades was forced to promise his future father in law many grandchildren before he would even consider the marriage. They had three children who worked in the family restaurant, two more at home and another one on the way.
Michael Hades was out arranging the menu display when Dion walked up to him with his friends. The other three hung back as they knew this was a private affair between him and Hades.
"Hello, Mr. Hades," he announced himself to the restaurant owner. "I'm Dion. I've been trying to reach you all day."
"I've heard a lot about you, Dion," Hades spoke to him. "So is it true your uncle had you create this entire mall at night by levitating blocks of stone from the big quarry in Scipio?"
"If I could do that, Mr. Hades," Dion said, "I wouldn't need to come and see you about obtaining full authority for the power of the fourth element."
"I see. So where do you come from?" He placed both hands on his hips and tried to look the part of an elemental grandmaster, although it was difficult as he wore a white apron and a chef's hat.
"California, sir. My parents were abducted by my uncle who owns this mall and are held prisoner inside the clock tower. Only I can rescue them."
"Why is it only you who can rescue them?"
"I will have all four elemental powers should you decide to grant the last one to me. I have possessed the ability to manipulate all four elements since I was a young child, but nothing I ever did had much power. Until I met the other elemental grandmasters, I could only make small things do casual manipulations. Now I have full authority over the first three elements and I will have the fourth with your approval."
"And with these four elemental powers you will be able to free your parents?"
"No, sir. I need the fifth element to free them. I can only gain the fifth elemental power by entering the clock tower where they are held. But to do that I need all four elemental powers."
"I see. And where is this fifth elemental grandmaster you hope to find? In the clock tower I assume?"
"No one knows. It is so rare anyone masters the fifth element that few people even know there is a fifth element grandmaster. My uncle gained the power of the fifth element when he by-passed the other four. All he knows is the fifth element. If there is a fifth element grandmaster, he or she will have power over the aether and the abyss. I will have to find him or her inside that clock tower before I can locate my parents."
"But what if he or she isn't in the clock tower?"
"Where else would that person be?" Dion asked him. "My uncle lured the other four elemental grandmasters to this mall so he could trap me. He must have the fifth one concealed inside the tower too. I wouldn't be surprised if he has the fifth elemental master trapped in it too."
"Well and good, Master Dion," Michael Hades said. "But we must attend to these matters in private. It's not a good idea to talk about them in front of the uninitiated."
"I agree, sir. Give me a few minutes to talk to my friends."
Dion walked over to the other three. "This should only take an hour," he told them. "Just wait out here, my uncle won't dare to try anything while I'm inside with the Fire Grandmaster."
Lilly put her arms around him and gave Dion a big hug. "You come back to me safe!" she whispered to him.
"Don't worry. I will."
Dion walked back and vanished inside the restaurant with Hades. Lilly stood and watched him go. When he was inside the restaurant, she turned to Emily. "He wants to marry me," she said.
"What? That's wonderful! We can make it a double wedding."
"That was Dion's idea too," she told her, tears streaming from her eyes.
Dion followed the restaurant owner through his chili parlor as they headed for the back office to complete the interview. He stopped at a young man about Dion's age and spoke a few words in Spanish to him.
They continued on down the restaurant.
"That was my oldest boy," he explained to Dion. "I told him to leave us alone for an hour as I have some important business to attend. He favors his mother in temperament, but I think someday he'll be a good fire manipulator someday. It takes time, as you well know. But right now, I have him to the point where he can summon some lesser fire elementals and they'll roast an entire slab of lamb in the kitchen. Saves a fortune on gas bills."
Hades opened the door in front of them and allowed Dion to enter his office in front of him. He turned on the light and allowed Dion a chance to see what was inside the office while he locked the door from the inside.
"Take the seat in front of the others," he instructed Dion. Dion walked over to the single chair situated in the middle of the room and seated himself.
In front of him were the other elemental grandmasters. He'd met each one over the past few days and obtained the full elemental powers from each one. Today he hoped to obtain the fourth one.
"Welcome, Dion," the pharmacist said to him who gave him his first elemental power, that of earth. "We've waited for you today. None of us worried you wouldn't make it this far, we've been very impressed by your performance. But we need to see a final demonstration of your new abilities before we can allow Mr. Hades to give you the full fire elemental power."
"There is a reason the final elemental power we can bestow on you is fire," the hobby storeowner announced. "It is the most dangerous of the four. We cannot allow you to have this ability unless we are certain you will use it to establish balance in this reality. We cannot give the ability to set the world on fire to the wrong person."
Dion sat in the chair and nodded.
"In order to allow Mr. Hades to give you this ability," the woman who owned the pool supply shop told him, "you must show us what you can do with the talents bestowed on you so far."
"Note that there are four basins in front of you," Michael Hades told him. "The first has earth in it, the second has water, and the third is empty as you have plenty of air in the room to work with. The fourth and final one we will tell you about if you satisfy us with the first three. We want to see what you can do with the first three basins, before we proceed."
"I understand," Dion said. "Give me some time and I will do what I can."
Dion sat in the office before the four grandmasters and closed his eyes. This was the final test of sorts. He needed to prove his good intentions before they would allow him the fourth power. Sitting here in front of them in this small restaurant office was not quite as glamorous as the storybooks would have it, but he'd come far to obtain this fourth ability. His parents were dependent on him and he needed to get them out of the tower.
Dion concentrated hard. There came a grinding sound from the first tray and as cloud of dust began to rise from it. Soon, the dust condensed into the figure of an animal. The animal was visible as a bull, the same one that Dion kept running into, since he contacted the same earth spirits that were originally trapped in the bull to animate it. They created a bull made out of clay, which, due to the small amount of dirt, was life size, but hardly weighed anything. The bull walked out of the tray looked around the office, bowed to the grandmasters, turned to Dion, bowed to him, and then returned to the tray. Once it reached the tray, it returned to its form as a cloud of dust and descended into it. There were no dust particles anywhere in the office after it settled into the tray.
"Very nice," The pool storeowner said to him. "Now let's see what you can do with the tray of water."
Once more, Dion closed his eyes and concentrated. All he could think about was the water Naiads and how innocent they seemed. Of all the elementals he'd encountered in his time at the mall, they had been the easiest to work with. The Naiad sisters were so sweet, it made you wonder why humanity had to come in existence and ruin everything. They weren't as innocent as they seemed; no sentient being could be clueless and survive in the reality that was Earth. He worried that the chess club would have more than it could handle adjusting them to the ways of the world. But to see the Naiads in their human form choose one boy after another was something he could be proud of all his life.
As Dion thought about the innocent water nymphs, one of them suddenly appeared on the edge of the tray. The water stirred and from it raised a beautiful young woman covered by her long hair. She looked around as she surfaced from the tray and laughed. It didn't make sense; there was very little water it the tray, but it was all the elemental needed to bring itself forth. Dion recognized the form of Cynae who turned to him and giggled. She blew him a kiss and vanished beneath the still water in the tray.
"Now that was something else," the hobby storeowner said to him. "I heard about those girls. I can't believe they live over in the creek now."
Dion wanted to tell him that they wouldn't be there much longer, but it was time to work his abilities on the final tray for which he had full elemental abilities. He closed his eyes and concentrated once more. There were a few sylphs in the room, they were always about if you knew where to find them. They were very easy to work and Dion had a few of them start up right away. They liked to help him whenever there was an opportunity.
A breeze began to move around the room. Soon it turned into a light wind. Dion was able to get the sylphs to stop the air currents at this point because he didn't want a hurricane unleashed in the restaurant office. The wind slowly died down and then it was calm again. There was no need to do anything elaborate with the sylphs as they could be counted on to make the air move. To create a humanoid sylph would be a waste of talent and energy and his judges would not look favorably on it.
"Pretty good wind, son," Michael Hades noted. He still wore his apron and chef's hat. The wind had not blown it off his head. "Now if you will excuse us, please step outside the room we need to talk about a few things."
Dion stepped up from his chair, went to the door, unlocked it and let himself out into the dining area. He shut the door behind him. Now would be the time to render an opinion. All he had to do was stand there and wait.
Very few people were in this part of the restaurant. Hade's staff must've been informed to keep it free and away from interference.
Dion stood in silence and waited. There was nothing else he could do. He hoped his demonstration of his ability and his performance would make the grandmasters look favorably on his quest. But he wouldn't know until they made up their minds.
He waited for a good fifteen minutes until the door opened and the face of the pharmacy owner peered out at him. "You can come back in, Dion."
Dion stepped back into the room and locked the door behind him. The pharmacist was back in her chair and he realized they wanted him to sit back in the one where he'd sat before. Dion walked back over to his chair and seated himself.
"We have carefully considered your actions this week," Michael Hades began. "There were some concerns about the flooding of the parking lot. We were also worried about the casual use of an earth elemental in the plastic bull in front of so many people, but the situation did warrant the use. Therefore, we have decided to award you the full abilities of the fire elemental. Stand up, Master Dion!"
Dion stood up in his chair as the others did the same.
Michael Hades walked over and took him by the hand. "Do you swear by the Master of Time not to use this ability for personal gain or to accept monetary payment for the gift which is about to be granted you?"
"I do," Dion replied.
"Do you swear to use your skills to provide aid and comfort to those who need it?"
"I do."
"Do you swear to use your talents to fight evil in all its forms?"
"I do."
"Then make the fire in the final tray dance."
Dion closed his eyes and brought out the smallest fire elemental he could find inside the last tray. It was metal, so there was on danger of it burning through to the floor. He noted the tray was placed on top of a stone platform. The wood burst into flame and Dion made certain there would be as little smoke as possible from the burning wood. He allowed the flame creature on top of it to dance all over the burning wood, which he kept at a temperature so hot it was reduced to ash in seconds. A few minutes later, the flame was gone and the small fire elemental with it.
"I hereby proclaim you a master of the fire element," Michael Hades said. He gestured back at the chair. "Please sit down. And don't worry, I'll sign the forms today and you'll get your copy in the mail next week."
"Have you thought about what to do with your abilities from here on out?" the pharmacist asked Dion.
"My first order of business is to penetrate into the clock tower tomorrow and rescue my parents. I need to obtain the fifth and final element to do that. What can you tell me about the fifth element grandmaster?"
"She vanished into the tower the moment it was built," the hobby storeowner told him. "No one has heard anything from her since she was lured into the tower soon after it was completed. If you go in there after her, be careful. None of us knows what is inside that tower. All we know is that your uncle had it completed first and according to his personal plans, which are long vanished. But we do know she is still inside. We don't know anything about her situation."
"You haven't told me anything about the fifth element grandmaster," Dion said to them. "You sit there and talk about her, but I have no clue who she is."
"Her name is Mary Phologostron," the pharmacist said. "She ran a travel agency, but she turned down every attempt your uncle fielded to get her to relocate her office from Scipio to the mall. A few months ago, he lured her into the clock tower on the pretext of a meeting to discuss travel plans for his employees. This is the last we have seen of her."
"What does she look like?" Dion asked. "It would be helpful if I have some idea who I'll need to find in this place."
"She's a white lady," the pharmacist told him. "About thirty years of age. She wears horn rim glasses and is of medium build. Nothing special about her. She has long black hair if this helps you."
"At least I'll not be trying to find a bald man in his fifties," Dion told them.
"This meeting needs to be adjourned," Hades announced as he stood up from his chair. "I have a business to run and I'm sure the rest of you are in a similar situation."
The grandmasters shook Dion's hand and welcomed him to their ranks. In a way he was about to become a grandmaster himself, should he could obtain the powers of the fifth element. The title was more of a courtesy than anything else.
His friends knew what had taken place the moment he met them outside the restaurant. Lilly had a look of relief on her face. Both Emily and Sean congratulated him by pumping his hand and slapping him on the back.
"Where to now?" Sean asked him. "You have all four powers. Will you try and get the final one today?"
"No, too much to do before I try to enter that tower. We need to get back home now that I've fulfilled today's objective."
"I think we might have to put a delay on that," Sean said. "Look who's back in action."
The grey suited security guards poured down the grand concourse in their direction. This time they didn't even bother to try to act as if they were in the mall on official business. They pushed people out of the way and marched in step toward them until they reached Dion and company. The grey security guard fire elementals surrounded them and glared in anger at the four young people who stood in the concourse.
"We found them," the elemental who appeared to be the leader of the pack said. "Your little trick sent them into another circle of time and it took us a long time to get them back. We just cut a deal with the man who owns this mall. All four of you are to come with us this very minute."
"We aren't going anywhere," Dion made clear. He looked at the crowd of security guards who surrounded him and smiled. They had no idea he'd been awarded full fire elemental powers.
"I think you will," the salamander said and the air began to heat up around them. Dion could feel the subtle energy shift from the salamanders in human form into the air.
Dion raised his hands and the room became cooler. Much cooler. Soon the atmosphere in the room was back to normal and the salamanders stood there in amazement.
"Do you understand now?" he said to them. "It doesn't matter what kind or form of deal you have made with my uncle. I have the full powers of the fourth element and can bind you in any way I choose. Now why don't you just leave before I find some volcano to send you into for the next ten thousand years?"
The security guards looked around and saw the crowd of people watching them carefully. There would be no way they could merely vanish and leave the room. Too many people would see it happen up close where it couldn't be explained. The lead elemental turned and walked back the way he came, followed by the other fire elementals. This time they didn't shove people out of the way, as they had done before. As they vanished around the corner, the final elemental in their grey suited uniform turned back and looked at Dion before he continued on his way.
"Looks like your uncle will need some new security for this place," Sean said to Dion. "And he better get it soon because it won't take very long for every booster thief in town to learn the mall is wide open. The local cops will get tired of doing the job for him real quick."
"My uncle isn't thinking past this week," Dion said. "He wants to keep me away from the tower for a few more days. I don't know what he's planning, but it involves this mall and the abyss. I need to get into that clock tower tomorrow, find the grandmaster of the final element, and free my parents. I'll deal with him along the way."
The light began to fade around them once again, which meant they were about to be transported to somewhere else. Dion was used to it by now, just couldn't figure out who made it all happen. If it was his uncle, he needed to be ready for a challenge. But he didn't think so. There was a limited amount of things a person could do outside this time circle and if his uncle wanted to do him harm, it would happen in this time circle.
"I'm starting to get sick of this," Sean told to his friends as the light of the mall faded and became dark.
"Me too," Lilly agreed. "I wonder who wants us this time?"

Chapter 14

No sooner had Lily spoke the words than the light began to return. It grew in brightness and, as Dion expected, he felt the warm sand beneath his feet. They were in the Ancient Egypt of another time circle with the pyramid construction in the background.
Dion looked down and found the clothes of an Old Kingdom court official on his body. His friends were dressed the same, with the girls wearing the sheer wraparound dresses from his time. Their hair was layered and coated with a fine sheen of oil for protection from the hot sun. Lilly held a staff in one hand and had a bright feather in the headband that kept her hair in place.
"You are quite the vision of an Egyptian landscape," he said to her. "I wonder what time it is?"
"Ask him," Sean said as he pointed up at the sky.
Dion looked up at the heavens and saw the large beetle pushing along the solar ball. Directly behind it was the boat with several figures in it. He couldn't tell, but the boat was cutting to the left of the bug, as if it wanted to find a way to get around it.
"Four in the afternoon," Dion said. "Right on schedule.
"Hello, kids," a voice said on front of him. It was Mr. Jehuti once again with his wife. They were dressed the same and stood directly in front of them. Mr. Jehuti held a scroll in one hand, while his wife held a case of pens. It had to be something to do with their station.
"We needed to bring you for the final confirmation," Mr. Jehuti said. "We can't do this part anywhere near your time circle. It has to be done here."
"I thought it was all over and done with once I obtained the fourth element," Dion said to them. "At least this is the impression they gave me."
"We still have a few more things to do," he explained. "I know you are ready to go into that tower tomorrow and need to plan for it, but we have to go over a few formalities so the first four elements will be under your control back on your home world."
"So what do I need to do?"
"You don't need to do a thing. All you have to do is accept their loyalty."
"Loyalty of whom?" Dion asked.
"Their loyalty," Mrs. Jehuti said as she stood next to her husband. She pointed in the direction of the approaching procession.
The procession was made up of all kinds of figures who were barely visible at the distance. The procession was chanting something, but at the distance, it was impossible to hear what they were saying. It was only when they came into hearing range that Dion could hear what they were saying. The column was chanting his name over and over again. In the rear of the procession, three women slapped cymbals together to keep the beat in sequence.
In front of the column were figures made out of dirt, the representatives of the earth elementals. Behind them were the air sylphs who bounced around in the form of dancers. Directly bringing up the procession were the water elementals who appeared to be some kind of river nymphs and were singing in Ancient Greek. Finally, the fire elementals, in their human salamander form, came in from the rear. The cymbal players were salamanders.
"We offer our support to the man who has attained the four elemental powers," the earth elementals spoke to Dion as they marched forward. They bowed and broke apart as they became part of the sand on the ground. Dion gave him his thanks as he watched the ground break apart and rumble as they continued on their way.
"Just let us know when we're needed," the dancers chanted as they bounced on the ground in front of him. Seconds later they took to the skies in their sylph form as Dion thanked them and accepted their support. He watched them travel to the sky as air currents.
"Hello, Dion," the water elementals said to him. "We're here for you too. Do you think you can find us some nice young men like you did for our Naiad cousins?"
"How could I refuse such beautiful women?" Dion laughed at them. "I will find you some virile young men who would be clad to offer companionship to you. The world is full of such men."
They clapped their hands for joy and poured into the ground as they took liquid form. Dion watched the water return to the desert and wondered what would become of the world if every young man knew he could have a companion of such beauty.
When it was the salamanders' turn, Dion realized they were the same fire elementals who'd caused him such trouble in the mall. They stood there with folded hands until the cymbal players quit clanging their instruments together.
"We are sorry if there were any misunderstandings," their designated leader said. "We were only doing what we knew how to do to protect our own interests. Know that you will always have our support in the future."
"All misunderstandings are in the past," Dion told him. "Let's move onto the next level."
He watched as the salamanders burst into flames. The individual fires merged together and rose to the sky in a series of pillars, which were soon blended into the sky in a rainbow of brilliance. Dion sat there and watched the fires turn into flaming rockets as they rose higher than the solar boat chasing after the sun bug. The flames reached up to heaven and soon were beyond the visual range.
"But you know," Dion said as he turned to Mr. Jehuti, "this still leaves one more series of elementals which I need to reach. And I have to encounter them tomorrow. What form will they take?"
"The aether elementals have the form of a sphinx," Mr. Jehuti explained. "They are ferocious and the ancient pharaohs used them to guard the tombs and treasure. For some reason, they disappeared in your circle of time and the remains of the kings of Egypt were plundered. That has not happened here. Come with me. It is okay to leave your friends alone for a moment?"
Dion turned and looked at them. Lilly was playing with the ring he gave her. Sean shrugged.
"I don't see as there will be a problem leaving them here," he told the newsstand owners.
The couple came over to him. Each took a separate hand. Dion flew across the sands of the desert. He flew across the Nile River and passed more barges with building material headed up the river. They passed over the sands where the traders rode their camels across the hot sun to deliver their goods to the remote settlements across the Northern African landscape. The colors melded into endless patterns of yellow and red. This was not the same smoke-filled polluted landscape you would find on Earth, but an entirely new place that was outside the realization of normal humans. Dion closed his eyes and felt the wind rush on his face as he flew along with the couple who carried him aloft.
"What are you?" Dion asked them. "Are you from Mt. Olympus too?"
"No," Mrs. Jehuti told him. "We are from another place. We are from the Abode of the Blessed. It's the same idea for a different class of immortals."
Soon a vast necropolis rose up on the ground before him. The couple who held him flew down to circle around it, as they searched for a particular location.
Dion could see many of the tombs below him were intact, although there were a few locations, which were crumbled into dust. For some reason, this vast tomb complex was not plundered like the ones back home. Dion felt they were about to show him why this was as the two found a large tomb and began to circle it. Satisfied, they swooped down to the ground. When the ground was beneath their feet, they let loose of Dion and allowed him to relax for a few minutes so he could see the landscape in front of them.
"Where are we?" he asked.
"Where you always wanted to be, Dion," Mrs. Jehuti said. "The very place where history began. Here it stays the same. Every day the sun raised in the sky in the form of a solar ball pushed by a small beetle and pursed by a holistic boat. The civilization stays the same."
"What did you want me to see?" he asked her. "There has to be something important here or you would not have brought me to this location."
"I want you to see what you will encounter when you go into that tower tomorrow. You need to see what sort of creatures are found in the aether. This is one of the deadlier ones, I admit, but you need to be aware of the worst that can happen. It has been my experience that the worst that can happen is the worst that normally does happen."
They walked to the tomb, which rose high in the necropolis. It was night for some reason. They had left in the middle of the afternoon, but the place where they now stood had no relationship to time. It could be any point in the past or present, as in this time circle, all were equal. Dion heard the sand whisper at his feet as they slowly walked to the tomb.
Around the tomb was a short wall. It was more of a line of desert plants that grew in a definite pattern around the tomb. The tomb itself was nine feet high and ten by ten feet at the base. It was covered with intricate hieroglyphs, which displayed important events in the life of the court noble who's been entombed thousands of years ago. Dion couldn't tell how old the tomb was since the dry weather made the degradation of the tomb a slow process. If it were a wet climate, he would be able to notice the crumbling stone and moss which grew across the walls. But here, that was not a factor in the destruction of the tomb.
They stopped at the hedge line and waited. Dion wanted to ask them what they were waiting for, but he had an idea they would soon find out.
There was a loud thump as a large object fell off the roof of the tomb and landed in front of them. It wasn't easy to see what it was in the dim light of the moon and Dion was forced to strain his eyes to get a better look. The object rose from the sands and looked up at them.
At first, he thought it a lion. The creature stood on four legs, but it seemed to be made of the parts of four or five animals. To his shock, Dion realized he was staring at the face of a human. It was a human head but it was attached to the body of a lion which had wings folded across its back.
"Do you wish to enter?" it asked him. "You are welcome to enter the tomb and abscond with whatever treasure you might find. However, to do so you must answer the question I put to you."
"What happens if I don't want to enter the tomb?" Dion asked it.
"Then you may go in peace. I encountered you before you sat foot on my territory. You are not my responsibility."
"And what happens if I do want to answer the question and am proven wrong?"
"That is so very simple," the creature said. "I get to eat you."
"I'm not interested in entering your tomb."
At that moment, Mr. and Mrs. Jehuti stepped up to the level of the hedge line and spoke. "Hello, Frank," they said to the sphinx. "We wanted you to meet Dion. Dion, this is Frank the Sphinx. He's guarded the noble's tomb for the past three thousand years."
"Why hello to you too," the sphinx replied. "I wondered what this youngster was doing running around by himself so near to my line of control. He didn't have the look of the average tomb raider."
"What does the average tomb thief look like?" Dion asked. The sphinx was busy pawing the ground.
"Oh the usual," it said to him. "Desperation. Hunger. Fear. It takes a combination of all three for someone to work up the courage to get past me."
"Has any one ever made it past you?" Dion asked him.
"Not since I've had this job. Every few years some idiot thinks he can get past me. I've had people show up with dictionaries and scrolls to look up my challenge questions. They never succeed. I've been at this a long time and do my homework. I like my work and intend on keep this position. The contract won't run out for another two thousand years. I plan on staying here as long as I can."
"How has the valley been since we were here last, Frank?" Mrs. Jehuti asked him. "It has to be, what, five hundred years since we were here the last time?"
"About that. I lose track of the years. If I didn't have to punch a time clock I'd forget how many hours I put in each week."
"Someone else watches the tomb to spell you?" Dion asked.
"Oh, no, just me, but they want me to keep track of my hours just the same. I think someone down at the central office keeps track of the hours I put in so they can do some kind of rate study. The bean counters will always end out on top. They keep telling me I need to be more efficient in my work, but I don't know why. There hasn't been an intrusion attempt in the past hundred years."
"What about the other tombs," she asked him. "Any problems as far as they are concerned?"
"Not really. We had a break-in last month when some fool decided to go in for the treasure in a pharaoh's tomb. The tried to use some kind of battering ram. I sat outside and watched it all come down. These casual break-ins relieve the monotony. You always know when they are about to happen, because the local thieves will start to show up and cruise around the outside of the valley trying to find an entrance point. I'm sure they have plenty of information on what's inside here. They keep it in a library or something. Each year one of them gets a little bit closer to a horde and it forces us to keep up on what they'll try the next time. Every now and then, a civilization falls and they go back to zero. But they're clever enough to keep trying. I give them that; they never do give up over the years. I suppose a fortune for an emperor or is enough to tempt most people. Keeps me employed at least.
"Do you know of anyone who's come around lately trying to get the guardians to break contracts and work for them?" Mr. Jehuti asked him. "We think someone has hired a bunch of your kind to work for him in our time circle. I wanted Dion to meet you because he needs to know what he might run up against."
"You sure know how to pick your targets, kid. What is so important that you need to go up against one of us?"
"My uncle is holding my parents prisoner to keep me from interfering with his plans. He's also kidnapped the Aether Elemental Grandmaster. I have full powers on four of the five elements. My uncle has the fifth, but he lacks any of the elements prior to it. I need to rescue the fifth elemental grandmaster so I can obtain the power of it and rescue my parents."
"Tough assignment. Good luck. Humans don't last very long when they run up against us. I hope you have a good memory because we always pull that "question" trick before attacking. Gets them every time. I only know of one case where someone answered correctly and he was an outlier. You have any aether abilities?"
"No," Dion said. "Power over the aether is the one ability I don't have. I don't think it's a natural talent. I've never heard of anyone having that ability."
"You have a task ahead of you I don't envy," Frank said and turned to the Jehutis. "Hey, this chat is nice, but I have to get back to work. Come by before the next five hindered years are up, could you?"
"What do you have to return to?" Mrs. Jehuti asked him. "I thought you said no one is stupid enough to break into your tomb."
"Okay, you caught me. There's a game on tonight. The company got me a TV to relieve the boredom and I'm a Cincinnati Reds fan. Johnny Bench is looking very good this year. The Big Red Machine might make it to the pennant."
"We'll stay in touch," Mr. Jehuti told him and the couple took Dion by each hand.
Dion found himself airborne in seconds and the tomb retreating in the background. The moon was high in the sky as they flew over the sand. Soon the sun returned to the sky and they were coming down to the same location he'd left before. Dion's three friends waited for him as they touched down on the ground.
"That was fast," Sean told him. "Where did you go?"
"We went to see a friend I thought Dion should meet." Mr. Jehuti said. "He can tell you about it later."
"Do you want us to send you back to the mall where we took you?" Mrs. Jehuti asked him. "Or would you like us to advance the clock a little bit and deposit you by the van after sunset. I can't think of any reason you'd want to spend more time in the mall, unless you need the hours to plan."
"Drop us off at the van after sunset," Dion said. "Do you know where it's parked?"
"In that groove of trees. I don't think it's been disturbed. Any other boons you'd like?"
"Just give us our clothes back. These are appropriate for the environment of the desert, but back home they'll think we have escaped from a costume party."
"We can manage that with no trouble."
The light began to fade again and Dion found the area around him became very dark. Once again, the light returned and this time they were deposited right next to the van, just as he requested. Dion looked around and found himself with his three friends. They were back in the same clothes they wore before they left the desert. Dion breathed easy since he didn't need the explanation about the change of clothing to the parents. The immortals took care of it before, but even an immortal from Olympus or the Abode of the Blessed could make a mistake.
Dion went over to the van and checked it over from the outside. From what he could tell, it had not been disturbed.
"Well, that was a fun trip," Emily told them. "When do we get to do it again?"
"Hopefully, never," Dion said to her. "I hope they'll never have cause to pull us out again. You didn't get to see the creature I might encounter tomorrow." Dion briefly told them about the meeting with Frank the sphinx.
"Yeah, that sounds more than I want to deal with myself," Sean told him. "Say, what is that noise?"

Chapter 15

In the background, they could the sounds of a party in progress. There were voices of young men and women mixed with laughter. They looked at each other and walked through a side trail to see what was happening down by the banks of the creek.
They walked through the underbrush and pushed trees and saplings out of the way, as they wandered in the direction of the noise. Sean saw them first: the chess club hanging out with the Naiad sisters. He almost stumbled over a Naiad kissing her boyfriend on the ground. Dion and friends made their way to the scene of happiness as they walked down the embankment and to the shore of the creek. There was a bonfire, which blazed on the bank next to the water, and several of the chess club members where enthralling their girlfriends with daring tales of brilliant move where they captured queens and took knights from their opponents.
"No kidding," one young man told his girlfriend, "there I was. I was playing the best guy they had at Stivers and he had me cornered. By all accounts I should have lost that one and been sent home with my tail between my legs. But he didn't know that I had a few tricks up my sleeve he didn't know about. Boy, you should've seen the look on his face when I castled right in front of him."
"So you beat him?" the Naiad asked him. She was back to wearing a tracksuit. It was still a bit cold to cover them strictly with hair.
"Well, no, he surprised me too. I should have realized he had some tricks too that I didn't know about. Still, when I saw the look on his face, it was worth it." She leaned on him and placed he slender arm around his shoulders.
"Nice to see you, Dion," the club president said. "We're thinking about getting a present for you. As you can see, our lives have changed for the better since the girls came into it."
"I'm glad to have made a difference. Have you talked to them, told them about the world in which you live?"
"We're working on that."
"You just do that," Dion told him and looked at the scene before him. He still couldn't believe the sight he saw. All guys who hadn't had a date and were about to graduate high school. And there were more water nymphs who wanted boyfriends. How did he get himself into these situations?
"So where have you been all day?" the club president asked him. "We haven't seen much of you either. Not that we've been bored as you can see."
Dion shook his head. Right now, all he could think about was his parents imprisoned in the clock tower and the sphinx who guarded it. How many sphinxes were in that tower? Was there anything else from the aether in that place? He needed to focus on rescuing the grandmaster that was in there too. But nothing could stop him if he won this final round.
"So how long do you think this party will go on?" Dion asked Ken, who was one of the chess club guys who was at the party.
"Probably all night. The guys showed up a little bit ago and they're having the time of their lives." That minute one of the Naiad sisters appeared and grabbed him by the arm.
"Baby, I'm lonely," she said to him as an arm snaked across his back.
"You'll have to excuse me, Dion," he said to his friend. "You might notice I have something else to take care of right now."
Dion stood there with Lilly and watched as the two of them walked off and went down by the creek. They sat in the shade of the firelight and watched the stream flow gently down the banks and into the buried culvert. The school year would end soon enough and the chess club members would be attending college. How it would all work out with the Naiad sisters was something Dion didn't want to think about. There would be many things to work out after this week, but right now, he needed to think about how he'd get into the clock tower tomorrow.
It was a long day. He'd been across the burning sands with his friends the Jehuti's and met a sphinx named Frank. Lilly and he would be married eventually. What had made him give her the ring? He didn't know himself, but it seemed the right thing to do and she'd proven to him this week she had the meddle to stand by him when things became bad. He really didn't need college as his powers were almost complete, but they might someday desert him and he needed to be ready for the day. He could go far in life, but the elemental abilities might be a burden on him someday. He needed someone to be there for him, should he rescue his parents and obtain the fifth elemental power.
"So I hear you are now a fire master?" one of the Naiads said to him. She stood next to her chosen and held the young man's hand. All this young love was touching, even to Dion.
"The powers were given to me just a few hours ago," Dion told her. "At least I don't have to worry about fire elementals making a run at me in the future."
"Can you make them do anything you want?" she asked him.
"In theory I can, but I won't do that. You don't want to make an elemental work and hate you. Not one who can burn things down anyway. I can do a lot with them, but I have to be careful."
"Let's see you do something with the bonfire," she told him, gesturing in the direction of the bonfire.
Dion turned to it and could see the small fire elementals dancing in the flames. They weren't very large and would be thrilled to show the humans what they could do. Dion closed his eyes, had a small conversation with them, and raised his hand at a ninety-degree angle. This was the signal they should go to work.
The fire swirled together and began to create patterns in the flames. It gathered into itself and created a phoenix, then a burning turtle and finally a horse. The crowd who watched it change each time cheered when the images changed shape. It was better than any firework display any of them had witnessed before. Also, it stayed close to the ground. At Dion's request, the flames broke into the images of the small fire spirits who danced in the flames, this time where everyone could see them. This produced plenty of gasps.
"Nice job, Dion," Ken told him. "You should go work for one of those Las Vegas casinos."
"Thank you for the compliment but my place is here. And I still have to go back in there tomorrow."
"Back in there? You have four elements, I thought you'd be done by now."
"I need one more that is inside the clock tower. My uncle is holding the fifth element grandmaster prisoner inside it and my parents too. I need to go get them out tomorrow." He walked away with Lilly as Ken stood aghast at what he'd been told.
"I can't believe you're going back in there tomorrow," Lilly told him as they watched the water from the bank. "Are you sure you don't want us to go with you?"
"I can't have anyone in there but me. The map doesn't show what's inside it. I only have a vague idea what is in there other than my parents and the Aether Grandmaster. I have to go in there alone and bring them back."
"I wish you would let us go in there with you," Lilly told Dion as she hugged him. "I can't imagine being without you at this point."
"I understand, but the battle is my own. Don't worry; I have four elemental powers and my uncle only has one."
"But isn't it the strongest one?"
"The aether is the basis of the power of the other four, this is true. But he lacks the knowledge of how to use it right. My uncle obtained it the wrong way and he only has a vague idea of how to use it. It will work against him when we meet each other in there. But I don't have any knowledge of what else he has inside the tower. I expect he's built all kinds of traps inside it to stop me from reaching my parents. It's why I have to reach the elemental grandmaster first. If I am given full power over the aether, he'll have nothing to use against me. I expect he knows this and has her hidden away where she won't be easy to find."
Dion turned to look at the party in progress and the Naiad sisters with their boyfriends. It was a little strange what he created and he still had no idea how it would all work out in the end. With prom coming up, the chess club would have plenty to plan for and prepare. But this wasn't his principal concern.
Dion saw a shadow emerge from the edge of the woods and work its way over to him. The shadow was without a companion and at first he thought it might be one of the chess club's friends. The party was limited to the club and the Naiad sisters, but other people might have heard about it. Dion watched as the shadow worked its way down the bank and came up to him at the edge of the water. It seemed to have a familiar form to it.
And then he recognized the face of his uncle, Seth Bach. The light from the fire illuminated his face and Dion could see the salt and pepper hair and the expensive suit he wore. His uncle recognized Dion and slowly walked up to him.
"Lilly, please go away," he told her. "I have something to deal with. Give me a few minutes to have a conversation and I'll be back with you."
Lilly could tell there was no arguing with Dion and walked away. Still, Lilly kept his image in her face as she went away. She knew something very wrong was about to take place, but there was nothing much she could do about it. She walked over to the bonfire and watched Dion stand his ground as the shadow came up to him. At that minute, she put her hand to her mouth when she realized this had to be his uncle, the man who was the source of all their troubles.
"You have done very well, nephew," Dion's uncle said to him. "Better than I expected. You have all four elemental powers and have eluded all attempts I made to get you out of the way."
"That is some great praise, coming from you, dear uncle. Perhaps you can prevent my assault on your clock tower tomorrow. All you need to do is release the fifth elemental grandmaster and my parents. Do this and I'll leave you to your mall and whatever wealth it brings you."
"Nice attempt, nephew, but there is a bigger game played here than my little mall represents. It stands over one of the gates to the abyss, did you realize that?"
"I knew there was some talk of it, uncle. I didn't know whether or not there was any truth to the matter. I still think you would be wise to take the settlement I'm offering you. This way you can keep the mall and your holdings."
"Do you realize what is inside the abyss, nephew? There are horrors inside it that human minds cannot comprehend. It is said that one only becomes complete when they cross the abyss, Dion. Would you like to make an abyss crossing?"
"Not under your guidance, uncle. I think I can do it myself quite nicely when the time comes. And, from what I understand, the abyss has no physical reality in this time circle. So how is it you claimed the location was necessary for the mall? You could place it at the entrance to the abyss? Couldn't you have placed the mall anyplace?"
"Perhaps, but this location suited my purposes. It has the right vibrations and location for my final action. Would you like to know about what I have planned over the next three days for his world?"
"Not in particular. I doubt the end result will be good for anyone."
"Oh, it will be very good for me," his uncle snickered. "And I'm willing to let you have a part of it. As a family member, you should have something to do with it. Even I am not immortal. You just might have that ability if you work hard enough."
"I don't think so, uncle," Dion told him. "You can keep your little schemes. You can keep your mall if you return the people I ask. I think I've made you a fair offer, why don't you accept it?"
"You little puke," his uncle snapped at him. "How dare you talk to me like this? I would like to remind you, Dion that I have the power of the fifth element and you don't."
"Perhaps, but I have the other four, which you do not. I don't care how you came by your full powers, uncle, but you got them the wrong way and they will be your downfall."
"I will fall down? I don't think so Dion. I think you should be the one to watch your step."
His uncle, who wore a black trench coat, stepped back on the little hill and glared at Dion. Next, he closed his eyes and concentrated. Dion could feel the energy in the atmosphere. His uncle was bringing up something from the aether. He could summon some kind of element from the aether realm and had no hesitation doing it.
Dion concentrated as well. He put out orders to all the elementals in earth, air, water and fire round him. He could feel their interests in the atmosphere about him. Even the Naiad sisters let go of their boyfriends and turned to look at Dion. The chess club realized something was wrong and looked in the same direction.
Dion could see a form shimmering in the air next to the creek. His uncle smiled as something began to take form out of the aether and pull itself into the material world. His uncle had brought something down from the abyss, which contained the basic building blocks of matter. He could feel it happen in front of him.
The shimmering form slowly congealed into a solid mass. The mass became a thing of horror as it took shape in front of the crowd around the bonfire. It grew to the size of a bear. It didn't stop growing until it reached ten feet in height. The Naiads stepped back and formed a protective barrier between themselves and their boyfriends as they had some idea of what it was about. The chess club found themselves pushed back, up toward the top of the embankment as they saw the light strike the beast down on the shore.
"What the hell is that?" Ken finally said.
"I have no idea," said Sean, who stood next to him.
Sean watched it with curiosity. When he was much younger, his mother made him go outside and dig up some creeping vines, which were growing over her flower garden. Sean went and got the shovel to dig the roots out of the ground. The roots ran back from all parts of the vine to a central point, and then sent runners to other points in the yard where more vines grew. Sean unearthed a root ball at one place, pulled it out of the ground and looked at it. When he saw it up close, the root ball looked disgusting. It was a mass of roots, which grew from a central point. Up close, it appeared to be a mass of worms or small snakes. He tossed the first root ball in the trashcan and burned the next ones he found. It didn't matter; the disgusting vines returned the next year and in greater quantity.
Right now, he starred at an animated root ball. At least, it's what it appeared to be from where he stood. But this root ball twisted and turned as it found itself in an unfamiliar territory. It fell over sidewise and tried to right itself as the root ball sent out masses of vines from the center of a body that grabbed any spot they could hang onto. The first twelve of them locked onto a tree to one side, hauled the center section up, and righted it as it grew bigger again.
Dion hadn't done an extensive amount of research on the fiends which dwelt in the abyss, so he didn't have a clue what it was. All he knew was that it had to be a dweller of the threshold, one of the primal creatures which controlled the gate to the abyss. There were many of them beyond the gate, but few people knew about them as they never left their home.
Every so often one might gain entrance to this circle of time. Stories would spread about some kind of demon loose on the land. They usually didn't last long in the corrosive atmosphere of the planet and would break down quickly since the things were made from ectoplasm. Dion felt a certain pulp writer had glimpsed one and it served as the basis for his horror stores. These were cosmic monsters of a terrible appearance.
As it righted itself, the beast sent out more tentacles, which meandered their way toward the light from the bonfire. The creature fed off vibrant energy and the fire was a source of it in which to feed. Dion couldn't remember what the counter was to those things; he never had the opportunity to talk with Edward about them. He did know they were elementals, which meant there would be a way to stop it; he only had to remember what would do it. The censer he carried in the bag would be useless, so he sat it on the ground.
Two of the Naiad sisters tried to block it as the thing crawled along the ground toward the fire. Both were sent flying into the creek when the tentacles grabbed and tossed them into the air.
"Stay back!" Cynae yelled to the rest of them. "It wants the fire. Stay out of its way because there's nothing we have here that can stop it."
"You know about these things?" Dion yelled at her. "What do you need to stop it?"











"A black diamond works best," she shouted out to them. "Anyone got a black diamond?" One look on the blank faces told her all she needed to know.
"I guess that's a no," she yelled back at the rest of them, just loud enough so Dion could hear her.
"Jeweler's been closed for hours," Dion shouted back. "Wish I'd know about this thing in advance."
"Hindsight is no good now," Sean said. "Anything else can stop it?"
Dion halted as he watched the mass of tentacles slowly work its way to the fire. He worried it would begin to grow enormously if it reached the fire. The beast had an insane demand for energy, if what he remembered was right. There had to be one other way to stop it. He just couldn't remember what bound it in place beside the black diamond Cynae mentioned. He continued to think as the Naiad sisters moved the boys back and out of its path.
And then he remembered.

Chapter 16

Dion wasn't sure if they had what was needed. He glanced around and saw a table unfolded next to the bonfire, which was what the chess club brought out to the party. On it were a few chessboards with half-finished games, some hotdogs, buns and mustard. Then he had a thought and ran ahead of the beast to the table. Dion scattered the condiments across the table as the mass began quivering toward the fire. He needed to be quick since the table was in its way.
In the distance, his uncle stood in place with his arms folded and a smile on his face.
Dion grabbed a saltshaker and dumped the contents over a hot dog bun. He rubbed a few more hot dog buns with salt to make sure they were ground into the loaves. The next thing he did was to grab up all the buns and walk into the direction of the tentacles, but he made sure to stay out of their range.
"What's he doing?" one of the chess club guys asked Emily as Dion slowly made his way to the mass of tentacles. The creature didn't have any sensory organs. It had no way of seeing or smelling where it was, but it could feel its way about with the scores of pseudopods which spread from the center of it.
"Don't worry about Dion," Emily said. "He knows what he's doing, just let him do it. Or at least I think I he knows what he's doing." As Emily watched Dion walk into the path of the monster with a handful of hotdog buns, she wasn't so sure.
Dion was just out of range of the monster when he hurled the first bun at the creature. The tentacles grasped and then released the bun. The tentacles it used to grab them shook violently when it released the bread. It appeared the creature was in pain, but there was no way to know because it couldn't make any kind of noise, other than the oozing sound it made as it pulled itself along on the ground.
Dion began to throw more buns at it and the monster retracted its tentacles. It seemed to shrink every time a bun stuck it. Dion waited to throw another one and the creature seemed to wail, even without a mouth to scream. It continued to shrink in scale under it was no more than two feet high. When it had shrunk to the small stump of no more than six inches, Dion walked over to the monster, dropped the final bun on it, and rubbed it into the ground. He lifted the bun and checked underneath it.
"Gone," Dion announced to the crowd. "Back to where it came. Just don't eat any of the buns I threw." There was a muted laughter from the crowd.
Dion went back to the table and grabbed a trash bag. As the rest of them watched, he picked up each bun and placed them in the bag. Then he tied the top of the bag and took it to Ken.
"Make sure you burn this later," he instructed Ken. His friend nodded and put the bag to one side.
There was a clapping sound from the embankment. Dion turned to see his uncle with a smile on his face again. "Very good, nephew. How did you send it back?"
Dion walked up to him. "I remembered what instrument was the counter against it. Bread and salt. We had the bread in the form of hot dog buns; all I had to do was get the salt on them and hurl the buns back at the monster."
"You are your father's son, I have to admit. You do know who your father really is, don't you?"
"He's your brother."
"Not exactly. He never did tell you why the older woman tried to have your nursemaids kill you, did he?"
"What are you talking about?" Dion demanded.
"Your real father is Jupiter Olympus, didn't he ever tell you? No, I guess he didn't. My brother wouldn't want it known his wife had an affair with her employer. It didn't matter that he paid off your parent's mortgage when Jupiter's wife found out. She was furious over what happened. It's why you have the potential for five elemental powers, Dion. You're half-Olympian yourself. Your parents never told you, but I guessed it a long time ago."
"You are just saying that to keep me out of the tower," Dion snarled at him.
"Go ask around. I guess this makes me your half-uncle. I don't care. Jupiter's wife found out and tried to have you killed. She can control water elementals too because she is an Olympian. It almost worked, but Jupiter thought she might try to hurt you someday, so he paid one of the men to follow you. He acted as protection until you were big enough to take care of yourself. Even wonder why that truck just happened to be there at the right time? It's because the man driving it worked for your real father who didn't want anything to happen to you."
"Get out of here, uncle!" Dion thundered at him. "You can forget about my allowing you to keep the mall after I rescue my parents and the grandmaster. I will see you are stripped of everything you have!"
"All you have to do is ask around," Seth Bach laughed as he vanished.
Dion stood in place and swore at the empty space where his uncle had stood. This could be a trick to make him stay away from the tower. But if his uncle was lying, why had he done it in such a way that would allow Dion to check up on what he said? It would be very easy to look into it. His uncle had to know this and had to know that Dion would check up on him. Which meant he had to know that he was right.
If it was true, why had none of his parents told him what happened? Why did they let him go through life and assume he was his father's son? Were they eventually planning to tell him the truth? He could understand if they hadn't wanted to talk about such shame on the family. However, he was eighteen. Couldn't they could have broken the truth to him years ago and prepared him for this? Why did they force him to hear it from his uncle, the man who had imprisoned his parents and forced him to come here in the first place? Dion stood in place and felt the anger inside him.
"Dion!" Sean yelled. "Lilly's hurt!"
Dion turned around and saw Emily and Sean holding Lilly between the two of them. She was bleeding from a gash to the head and blood was all over her clothes. Horrified, Dion ran to her and tried to stop the blood flow. He could see it wasn't as bad as he thought, but she still would need stitches to get the wound closed.
"What happened?" he asked them.
"I don't know," Emily said. "When you got rid of that thing, we couldn't find her. Sean and I looked everywhere and found her lying on the bank."
Lilly's eyes opened up and she looked at Sean. "Is everyone alright?" she asked him. "The last thing I remember was that monster sending its arms everywhere. It hit me and I went flying. Guess I hit my head on something. Ow, everything hurts." She looked down at her clothes in the firelight. "Oh, my parents will not be happy." She blinked again. Dion realized they needed to get her to the hospital because something was wrong with her head.
"We'll take my van," Dion said and placed one of her arms around his shoulder. He turned to the partygoers. "You'll have to break things up. Lilly needs to get to the hospital. The police may come around here and snoop around because I'll have to tell them she slipped and fell. I suggest you tell your girls good night and get home as soon as you can."
"Sure thing," Ken said. "Call my house and let me know how everything went." He turned back to the assembled Naiad sisters and their boys. As Dion walked away, he could see they were sad to hear the news, but understood the party would have to end.
Dion had Lilly in his van and out on the road ten minutes later. Right then, all he could think about was the hospital and making sure he got Lilly there without any problems. Emily sat in the back with her and kept a towel on her head. She constantly talked to her to keep Lilly awake. Dion tried hard not to roar past any of the cars on the highway, but he was concerned about getting her to the hospital. The nearest one was five miles away.
He planned to call her parents as soon as she'd been admitted. He hoped they wouldn't be too mad at him, but wouldn't blame them if they were. What a way to announce an engagement: in a hospital bed. This was a fine thing to happen on the day before he needed to go into the clock tower in the middle of the mall and rescue his parents and the grandmaster. His uncle hadn't planned this to happen, but he'd created the events by unleashing the monster from the abyss. Dion's blood boiled when the thought about what happened.
They had all rehearsed their story before leaving. Dion and friends had left the mall later and noticed some people they knew by the creek. They went down to see who it was and Lilly slipped on the mud. When she fell, Lilly had struck a rock and they left immediately to get her to the hospital. Thank God, none of them had anything alcoholic to drink at the bonfire because it would make the cops suspicious if they did. Dion assumed the cops would get involved. They always did in these kinds of cases. He hoped they would merely announce the creek as off limits and leave it at that. If they decided to question each of them separately, the story might fall apart. He wasn't even sure how much Lilly remembered what she was supposed to say. She was still somewhat delirious when they talked it over.
"How's she doing back there?" Dion called to Emily.
"I'm fine," Lilly said to him. "My head hurts, but do you really have to go to the hospital?"
"Your parents will take you there even if I drop you off at your house. At least this way, they'll realize I'm responsible. At least I hope they do."
Dion gave the van some gas and it lunged forward. He glanced back and saw the bleeding hadn't stopped. He couldn't tell how much blood she'd lost, but it didn't seem to be that much. He swore and wished his elemental powers extended to healing. For all the forces he controlled, there was nothing he could do to cure a sick person. The powers of elemental manipulation didn't include an ability to stop injuries or disease. It was a sick joke that he was the master of four elements, but still had to take his injured girlfriend in a van himself when she'd been hurt.
Soon he could see the lights of the hospital off the highway. Dion made the exit slowly as he didn't want to topple the van on his way to the hospital. Vans were notoriously top heavy and could turn over with ease if the driver didn't know how to handle them right. Snow and ice was a terror when it came to vans.
The van spun into the parking lot for the emergency room. Dion could see the lights of a few other cars in the emergency room parking lot. He pulled his van into the nearest parking lane to the glass doors of the emergency room clinic. He killed the engine, opened the driver's door and ran around to slide open the door to the rear passenger side so Emily could help Lilly climb out of the van.
Two attendants at the hospital ran out with a wheelchair the moment they saw Lilly bleeding. Dion let them take over her care and they wheeled her into the clinic as the rest of them followed along. The attendants fired off scores of questions about Lilly as they took her into the hospital.
The doors flew open as Dion left Lilly with the doctors on duty. He went right to the pay phone situated next to the entrance to the emergency room and made a quick call to her parents.
"Hello," her father announced when he picked up the phone. "Who is this?"
"It's Dion sir, he said. "I need to tell you something. I will get straight to the point. Your daughter in the county hospital. She fell and hurt herself, but I think she's going to be all right."
Her father swore on the other side of the line and wanted a detailed report on what happened. Dion told him the rehearsed story and hoped her father would accept it. He seemed to believe him, but it was hard to tell over the phone. Her father told him he was leaving right away and to stay there until he arrived. Dion assured him he had no intention of leaving until he was certain Lilly would be safe. He heard her father slam down the receiver and worried he would drive too fast on the way over.
Finally, he called his aunt and uncle. His uncle answered the phone and he gave him the rehearsed story of what happened. He uncle was silent for a few seconds after he finished.
"That's not what really happened, is it?" his Uncle Rich asked. "This is what everyone is supposed to think happened, but you can tell me the truth. After all, I'm family."
"You want to know the truth?" Dion asked him. "You really want to know the truth?"
"Of course."
"Lilly was attacked by a primordial monster your brother Seth summoned from the abyss to stop me from rescuing my parents and the Aether Element Grandmaster. She was knocked to the ground before I had a chance to send it back to where it came with hot dog buns rubbed in salt. Tomorrow I have to go into the tower and get the final power I don't have, which your brother does possess."
"So you did get the fire elemental power today?"
"Yes, but only after using all the other elementals to keep from getting immolated by some fire elemental salamanders who didn't like me. It's all good, they work for me now. But the best part is what my Uncle Seth told me tonight. He claims my real father is Jupiter Olympus and that is why the crazy lady tried to get my nursemaids to kill me."
His uncle on the other end of the line was silent, which told him what he needed to know about his lineage.
"Other than that, I've had an excellent day. I'll be home after I make sure Lilly is all right. Oh yes, one more thing. If I survive tomorrow, Lilly and I will be married. I asked her today and she accepted." Dion hung up the phone.

Chapter 17

Just as soon as Dion hung up the phone, Emily was on the pay phone. He could hear her talk to her father about what happened earlier in the evening. As planned, she used the rehearsed story.
"Guess I get to use the phone last," Sean said to him as Dion came around the corner.
"How is Lilly?" Dion asked him. "I just got off the phone with her dad. He's on the way over here."
"Doctor says she's going to be fine," Sean told him. "They're stitching her head up right now. Guess they'll have to shave part of her head to sew her up. But her hair will grow back."
Dion went directly to the nurse on duty and asked her when she would be out of the clinic.
"Shouldn't be too long," she told him. "My guess is that they'll keep her in for a few days in case she had a concussion. Are you family?"
"Kind of. I'm her fiancé."
"You'll need to talk to her doctor. Are any other family members here?"
"Her father is on the way."
The nurse told him to sit down and wait. Dion when into the waiting room and watched the TV screen for a while. There was some network show on about a pair of crime solving old women who were trying to stop a coven of witches. Or something like that. He really couldn't concentrate on what was on the television with everything else around him. How would Lilly's father take the news of both the injury and the engagement? He couldn't imagine.
Dion looked up to see Emily walking into the room. "I just got off the phone with my dad. He's concerned, but understands I might be late tonight. Sean is on the phone with his mother right now."
"Did you tell your father about you and Sean becoming engaged?" he asked her.
Emily frowned and looked the other way. "No. Sean and I decided to do it later. Sean will have enough to deal with when he gets home tonight. He doesn't need his mother badgering him about me too. She drilled him constantly about what happened and be on the phone to every other woman in her church. I went over the story several times with him. So long as he sticks to it, everything will be fine." She sat down next to Dion.
"How about Lilly?"
"Getting the stitches put in as we speak and her father is on the way over here."
"No, are you going to tell her parents about the engagement?"
"I don't think so. I hope I'll see her first before they arrive. I still have to enter the clock tower tomorrow. I don't want to add any problems to her. I think we should keep the announcement quiet until after tomorrow."
"I can see why you would feel that way," she told him. "Do you really have to go into that tower tomorrow?"
"Yes. I have to bring this thing to a conclusion. Plus, I think my uncle is planning something. I don't know what, but he wants me out of the way for the next week. If I don't get in there tomorrow, anything might happen."
Dion was quiet. He blamed himself for Lilly's injury. If he hadn't let her come with him today, she wouldn't be in the hospital right now. Lilly had stood next to him all the way and been there for him these past few days. It was only a few days ago he'd encountered her as a tiny young lady standing in the lot with her shoes in her hand. Why had he allowed her to see some of the small things he could accomplish with his abilities? She would have been better off somewhere else. Lilly would make a lawyer or international diplomat a fine wife. She might have a career herself these days and end up a politician. He could imagine her on TV, with the cameras pointing down since she wasn't very tall.
He felt she'd given up so much for him and nearly been killed several times. How many girls would have stood with him patiently as he went up against these elementals time after time? Not too many. Most of the girls at the high school didn't interest him. All they seemed to care about as whatever rock star was popular that month. Lilly she was different.
After fifteen minutes had elapsed, Sean came into the waiting room and sat down.
"Any word about Lilly?" he asked his friends.
"Dion told us she's getting stitches put in," Emily told him. "Should be out soon."
"They may want to keep her overnight," Dion added. "Concussion and all that." Sean nodded and sat down next to them.
"How did it go with your mother on the phone?" Emily asked him.
"About as best as you could expect. She kept asking me over and over whom I was with and was I okay. I told her each time that it was and what we agreed to say happened. I expect the preacher will be waiting on the front porch when Dion lets me off at the house tonight."
"You want to stay over at our house tonight?" Emily asked him as she slipped her hand in his. "I'm sure my dad could let you sleep on the couch."
"I appreciate your concern, but I have enough to contend with when I get home. If I was at someone else's house tonight, I'd have to put up with worse."
"And you didn't say a word about our engagement?" she asked him.
"No, too much to handle at once. You?"
"Didn't say a thing to my dad either, when are we going to break the news?"
"Let's see what happens after tonight. We can always go over and talk my parents and your dad when we get the chance. No reason to rush on it."
"Did you say you were her fiancé?" the desk nurse suddenly came into the waiting room and asked Dion. All of them stood up right away.
"Yes I did," Dion said. "What's happening?"
"She's out of surgery and the doctors wanted to her to see someone who was family. Do you want to go in and see her?"
"Yes. Can all of us go inside and see her?"
The nurse looked them over. "I don't see how it will be a problem," she said to them. "Why don't all of you come with me?"
They followed her as she went behind the admissions desk and into the surgery area. They walked through a place that reeked of alcohol and disinfectants as the sound level dropped perceptibly. The nurse led them to a recovery room, which had a chart attached to the door that was open. She ushered them through.
Lilly was in a bed wearing a hospital gown. She lay back and gently turned to them as they walked into the room. There were an assortment of medicines on the bed next to her and her clothes were piled up in one corner. Dion could see the white bandage wrapped around her head as she lay there. The smell of disinfectant was intense in this room.
"Are you okay, Lilly?" Dion asked her as he walked into the room and took her hand. She looked up at him and smiled.
"I'm just fine now that you are here." She sounded weak, but Dion realized it could be the medicine that she had taken.
"The doctor said you might be here overnight," he told her. "They're worried about head injuries and want to keep you under observation."
"Will that stop you from going into the clock tower tomorrow?"
Dion was embarrassed. Here Lilly was inside the hospital with her head stitched up and all she wanted to know was would it effect what he had to do the next day. Dion squeezed her hand.
"No, I still have to finish what I started out to do this week. Things will be much better when it's done. When can tell your parents about our plans when I come back. You should be out of here by then."
"You want to wait to tell them until later?"
"Yes. Sean and Emily are holding off, I think it's a good idea for us to wait as well. You still want to have a double wedding, don't you?"
Dion could see a single tear form at the corner of Lilly's eye and drop down to the pillow. He felt even worse at that minute, but he knew he had to finish what he'd started tomorrow if for his family. His parents had to be freed, along with the grandmaster. Only then could he return for her.
"I'll be back for your, don't worry," Dion told Lilly.
There were voices down the hall and the three of them turned to see the desk nurse walk into the room with Lilly's parents. This was the first time Dion had seen them up close and he could see the physical resemblance Lilly had to her father. He wasn't a whole lot taller than Lilly. Her father marched up to him and starred directly at Dion in the face.
"What happened to my daughter?" he demanded. "She's been with you every day this week and now I have to come here to the hospital. What happened?"
"She fell. Just as I told you over the phone. I took her directly to the hospital when I saw how badly off her head was. You can ask her the same thing."
Her father turned to Lilly. "It's true," she told them. "I fell and he brought me right to the hospital. They waited until the doctor finished stitching me up before coming to see me." She reached out and held Dion's hand.
Her mother was silent up until now. When she saw how Lilly took his hand, she spoke. "We just talked to the doctor," she said. "They want to keep you overnight for observation. I'm going to stay in the room with you."
The nurse started to say something, but kept her mouth shut. It seemed the issues which brought Lilly here could be dealt with later. She decided not to tell her mother families were only allowed in the rooms during visiting hours.
"Could you wait in the lobby?" the nurse said to Dion and his friends. "I need to talk to Lilly's parents about a few things."
Dion, Emily and Sean left the hospital room and went out to the waiting area where they'd sat after bringing Lilly into the hospital. Dion tried to look at a magazine, but couldn't concentrate on it. Sean and Emily tried to watch the TV which was provided, but their gaze kept running back to each other.
"I think her parents calmed down once they had a chance to talk to Lilly," Sean finally spoke. "They looked pretty mad when they came into her room. When she took your hand they changed a lot."
"I can't really blame them," Dion said. "Their daughter is in the hospital, they'll want to know why. I expected her dad to get in my face."
A few minutes later, Lilly's parents came out into the lobby. Dion notice her father carried some kind of folder with the hospital's name on it. They stood up and went over to them.
"We talked to Lilly," her dad said, "and she swears she fell on a rock by accident and you raced to get her to the hospital. I suppose I owe you some thanks for getting her here right away." Her father held out his hand, which Dion shook. "We were terrified after you called. Lilly means a lot to us."
"She means a lot to me as well," Dion said. It was obvious she hadn't said a thing about the engagement.
'We're leaving. The doctor we spoke with said she needs rest and they'll watch her tonight. If anything happens, they'll call us. Do you have our number?"
"Yes I do."
"Call me the first thing in the morning. No, wait until about eight in the morning. By then I will have spoken to the hospital and will know how she is getting along."
"I'll do that."
Lilly's family left. Dion thanked the nurse for the help she'd been and went to his van with Emily and Sean. He watched her parents drive out of the parking lot before he decided to leave. Dion started up the van and was soon on the highway.
"Do you still want to go into the clock tower alone?" Sean said to him from the backseat. "I've talked with Emily and we'll find a way to come with you if you need us tomorrow."
"I appreciate your help," Sean said. "But I have to do this one myself. Remember, that clock tower sits directly over the abyss, or something like it. The monster you saw this evening is only a small sample of what lies in it."
"Just keep us in mind."
"I will."
They dropped Emily off first. Instead of letting her walk up to the house alone, this time both Sean and Dion walked up to the door with her. As they expected, her father met them. He asked Dion and Sean to come inside and sit down. They went in and were seated at the kitchen table."
"Is Lilly okay?" Emily's dad asked. "I've been worried ever since Emily called."
"She may have a slight concussion," Emily said. "They stitched her up tonight and she's spending the night in the hospital. But I think she'll be fine tomorrow."
"And she fell and hit a rock?" her dad asked.
"A big one. Dion drove like a madman to get her to the hospital when we saw how bad her head looked."
"I'm glad you got her there quick," her dad said to Dion, "but I don't like hearing that you drove fast."
"I don't think I drove as fast as Emily imagined," Dion responded.
Dion glanced around the kitchen. It was easy to tell that there was little in the way of a woman's touch. It was clean, but looked Spartan. No lace curtains or the little signs a woman worked in it. The entire house was devoid of the presence of any older woman. He remembered Emily had told him her parents were divorced, but it must have happened years ago.
Emily's father allowed her and Sean to have a few quiet moments together in the kitchen while Dion and him went in the living room. While they waited, Emily's dad looked back at the kitchen and turned to Dion.
"This seems to be pretty serious. I don't recall her being so heavily involved with any guy before. How long do you think it will last?"
Dion wanted to say 'forever', but knew that Emily and Sean didn't want anything said about their engagement until they made it public. Since they were extending the same courtesy to him, Dion remained quiet.
A few minutes later, Sean came out of the kitchen with Emily holding his hand. He tried to look away from her father, but it was almost impossible to do. Dion could tell he felt uncomfortable. Also, he could tell they had been talking very seriously about something. The low voices, which came out of the kitchen, were an indicator. Dion had a sense what they were about to say and groaned on the inside. He was afraid this would happen.
"Daddy," she said to her father. "We need to tell you something."
He father went pale.
Dion could tell her father feared something terrible, but Dion couldn't tell exactly what that might be.
"You're pregnant," Emily's father said and dropped into a chair next to him. He turned and starred off into the distance.
"Daddy!" she yelled. "How could you think something like that about me?"
He father continued to stare away. "I should never have allowed you to visit your mother. It's my fault. Is Sean the father?"
"Sir, would you snap out of it?" Sean said to him. "I haven't done a thing to your daughter. Don't you think highly enough of Emily to trust her? Haven't you allowed her the freedom to choose the people she associates with? She's eighteen and old enough to make her own decisions."
"We're going to get married," Emily said. She turned to Dion. "I know, you wanted me to wait because you were told first and Lilly is in the hospital. But daddy should know. He's been scared for a long time something bad would happen. We've had talks. I've had them with mom, too. She's not as bad off as you might think, dad. She has her days, but I think she feels guilt for running off on us."
"Congratulations," her father told her. "To the both of you. Sean seems like a fine boy. You might be a little young, but there's no reason for me to block it. If you really want to, I won't stand in the way. When were you planning on going to the courthouse?"
"Soon. We have to tell Sean's parents too. That will be the hard part."
Sean looked at the floor.
"His mom is very religious, so be prepared for it."
There were a few more hugs and Dion excused himself to go wait in the van. It seemed as if everything would work out. At least for them.
Sean opened the door and sat down in the front passenger side a few minutes later. Dion started the engine and backed the van out of the driveway. Next stop was Sean's house.
"Sorry we popped that on you," he apologized. "I know we planned to wait until all four of us could break the news to our families, but Emily wanted to tell her dad right away. She was worried about him."
"I can see why," was all Sean could say. He came to a red light and let the engine run for a bit. "Are you going to tell your parents when you go home?"
"No, we decided to wait. It buys you and Lilly a bit of time too."
They were quiet until Sean saw Dion turn the van onto his parents' street. "You're still planning to go into that tower yourself tomorrow? Don't you even want me as back-up?"
"I have to do it alone," Dion said. "This is between my uncle and me."
Sean nodded.
Dion pulled up to Sean's house and told him good night as he watched his friend walk up to the door. The light was on when they arrived and the door opened before Sean was up to it. Dion could see his mother at the door. She hugged her son in relief when he walked inside the house. The door closed and patio light when out, which plunged the yard in darkness. Dion pulled the van back out of the driveway and onto the street.
He wondered how it was going down inside Sean's house. Good thing there was no school tomorrow. He didn't enjoy the idea of everyone asking him what happened. News traveled fast in this little suburb. It was amazing how many people knew each other when so many had relocated from somewhere else. Dion didn't know too many people from California, but there were some at his high school. The local air force base had something to do with that.
He wondered about that air force base at times. It was very close to the entrance to the abyss. There had to be a connection. It wouldn't be an obvious one as the abyss didn't have a physical entrance in the way most people understood it. The abyss could be accessed in many different ways, but his uncle had found a means to lock it down into one location. Perhaps the first inhabitants of this area had known about it. If they had, they kept the knowledge to themselves.
It took Dion another half hour to arrive at his aunt and uncle's house. The outside light was still on and he expected they would be waiting up for him. It was still only eleven in the evening, not too late by local standards. He would need to explain to them why he had to return to the mall tomorrow and enter the clock tower. Tomorrow would be the day of reckoning between him and his Uncle Seth. Tomorrow he would discover why his uncle had gone to such great lengths to keep him away from the mall. There was a lot happening beneath the surface right now and Dion intended to find out what it was.
Dion stepped out of the van when the light began to fade around him. There wasn't a lot of it in the first place, but he knew someone wanted to take him somewhere else for reasons he could only suspect. This time it had to be his uncle. Good and fine, but he'd had enough of his uncle and his tricks. Time to make Seth Bach arrive here for a change.
Dion closed his eyes and resisted the transfer. He felt the light; no matter how little of it, return and he opened his eyes. He was still in front of his aunt and uncle's house. Dion looked at his wristwatch. It was still close to eleven in the evening and the same date was on the inner dial of the watch. His uncle had failed to pull him over to his own time circle.
However, his Uncle Seth was standing in the middle of the driveway."
"Glad to see you again, uncle. Is this a family visit? I do think it's been a long time since you saw your brother and his wife."
"You think you are so powerful, so talented, so brilliant," his uncle snapped at him. "We'll see how well you do tomorrow. Don't you think I know what you're up to? You do know, don't you, that I can keep you far from the mall itself?"
"Why don't you try and stop me?" You've tried to make yourself master of this universe and it hasn't worked. You have something else in there you don't want anyone to know about. You are afraid I'll find out what it is, aren't you?"
His uncle glared at him.
"And you couldn't even bring me to your turf," Dion concluded. "It would appear, uncle, your powers have their limitations."
"We'll see about that tomorrow!" his uncle growled and then disappeared.
Dion looked at the empty space his uncle had occupied. He was ready, that was for sure. Dion wasn't sure what the best way would be to get into the tower. His uncle would be watching every clandestine entrance to the mall. Granted, he would have a new security company in place and they would be green. There were plenty of outside contractors who could police the mall for him. His uncle would make sure the guards would be on the lookout for Dion or anyone who matched his description. With his elemental power, Seth Bach would know the minute Dion entered the mall.
Dion continued to his aunt and uncles house, pulled out his key and unlocked the door. As he expected, they were in the TV lounge watching the news. Both of them jumped up as Dion entered the room.
"Are you okay?" his aunt ran to him and put her arms around Dion.
"I'm fine. Lilly is going to be all right, but they are keeping her in the hospital overnight to make sure she doesn't have any head trauma. Or something like that."
"Your Uncle Rich told me about your call," she said as they sat down. Dion place the bag he carried into the room on the floor.
"What's that?" his uncle inquired about the bag.
"Something I need to return to Hobbs. It's a censer that can be used to trap fire elementals. I have my full fire elemental powers today and don't need it anymore. I didn't have to use it, so he can sell it to someone else."
"And your uncle tells me you plan on going back to the mall tomorrow?" his aunt asked him.
"I have to. Uncle Seth has imprisoned not only my parents in that clock tower but the Fire Elemental Grandmaster too. I need to obtain the power of the fifth element to stop him and get my parents out of there."
"Can't someone go in there with you?" his uncle asked. "I'm willing to accompany you. After all, I am Seth's brother."
"It won't make a difference," Dion explained. "He's out of control. I have to be the one who goes into there alone and deal with him. Nobody else but me can do it."
Dion stood up. "I need to get to bed. Big day tomorrow."
His aunt and uncle watched him leave.
"He didn't say a thing about Jupiter Olympus," his aunt said to her husband.
"Isn't it enough that he knows? It's one more thing on Dion's mind. I didn't think my brother would sink so low to tell him, but he's desperate and will do anything. He hasn't changed a bit."
They turned back to the TV. Tomorrow was supposed to be a bright and clear day, according to the weather report with no storm clouds on the horizon.


- THE END -



Part 5 - AETHER



Chapter 1


Dion faced the door. He's spent the better part of his morning in search of the entrance to the clock tower that dominated the center of the mall.
With all four of the elemental powers under his control, he still needed something special to get inside it. The tower sat over the abyss itself and his Uncle Seth planned to use the forces beneath it for something. Dion didn't know exactly what it might be, as he could only speculate.
He entered the mall with all the shoppers that morning. By now, there was no reason to hide from the security guards. The fire elementals, who ran security, bowed to him as he walked past. Dion expected his uncle to replace them after he obtained the fourth elemental power, that of fire, yesterday. However, he hadn't. This made Dion even more concerned about what his uncle had in mind. His uncle had to know the fire elemental salamanders, who were in their human form, would never oppose him since he was now a fire elemental master. Combined with the other powers he had earned over the past few days- earth, air and water- there wasn't much his uncle could do to prevent him from entering the mall. His uncle might own the mall, but it wasn't worth the trouble to keep him out of it.
His first stop that morning was Hobbs' place in the "earth" part of the mall. Hobbs and his psychedelic shop provided Dion with many of the weapons he needed to defeat the elementals sent against him. If there was a weapon he needed to enter the clock tower, Hobbs could find it.
The grandmaster of the fifth element, aether, was held prisoner in that tower. So were his parents and Dion was determined to get them out. Let his uncle think there would be no way he could enter the tower. Dion planned to be inside it in the next hour. He merely needed a special key for a special lock. Hobbs would have that key if anyone possessed it.
"Back again?" Hobbs said to him from behind the counter as Dion entered his store. He was in the process of putting more discount albums in the racks when he noticed the young man who had been there every day of this week.
"I'm going in the clock tower this time," Dion told him. "I need to find out how to get inside and what weapon I'll need once I'm there."
"Are you serious?" Hobbs put down a stack of albums and walked over to Dion.
"My parents are held there. My uncle, who owns this mall, has them imprisoned. And what's worse, he has the Aether Grandmaster too."
"For God's sake, it's right on top of the abyss. Look, we all know what that tower is over and we live with it. The rent is cheap here and the traffic is good. I know the management is a little bit funny, but- wait! Did you say your parents are held inside it?"
"For the past year. Everything I've done this week was to get them out. My uncle is a master of the aether, but he doesn't have the other four elemental powers. I do. I want that fifth power as well. With it, I'll be stronger than him and he'll have to set my parents free."
"The aether is the root of the other four elements," Hobbs said.  "It's unstable in this time circle, which is why you don't see it used very often. If your uncle wants to make use of it, it won't be for our benefit."
Dion put his hands on the counter. "So you understand what I'm doing. Do you have anything to help me?"
"Not once you're inside that place." Hobbs shifted some merchandise in the cabinet below to find what he wanted. He was a short man, barely five foot, but stout and solid.
"Here it is," Hobbs announced as he pulled an envelope out of the cabinet. He sat the envelope on the counter and pulled a silver disc out of it. The disc had mystical signs engraved on it. Dion didn't recognize any of them.
"What is it?" Dion asked the small man across from him.
"It's a sigil that unlocks certain doors. It will only work once and the door will open for ten seconds. You put the disc on the door and push it into the surface. It will stick to the door and you can leave it. Step back because there will be a loud noise when it opens the barrier. The door will fly open. Like I said, you have only ten seconds to get inside before the door closes."
"Do I need to retrieve the sigil?"
"No you don't. It will burn itself up after use. This is a one-time tool. Remember what I told you about standing away from the door."
"Thanks, Hobbs. Send the bill to my aunt and uncle. This should be the last time I need your help."
"I'm not so sure about that." He turned and noticed a sales clerk looking at one of the album covers he had stacked. She had a notebook in her hand.
"We need to get the inventory finished by this evening," he called out to her. "You can read the credits later." She placed the album on the rack and went back to her count.
"She's a good worker, just has problems paying attention to the job," Hobbs explained to him. "Where are your friends?"
"Staying home today. I have to do this one myself."
"Wise decision, but I'm glad I don't have to go in that place. You take care and come back to see me once you've returned." He shook Dion's hand.
Hobbs watched the young man leave his store and walk down the corridor outside.
"I hope I do see him again," he spoke aloud. His clerk turned and looked up, her hand still holding the pencil she used for the inventory notebook.
"Nice kid," Hobbs said to her from the counter. "I think he's way in over his head."
"Can't you help him?" The clerk wore a pair of jeans and shirt with a flower stitched on it. She had long red hair, which cascaded down her back.
"I wish I could. There is too much bad energy in that tower for me to go up against it. I don't want to go anywhere near it."
"You didn't have any trouble summoning me."
"You aren't in the same class. I know how to get results in some areas. In others, I'm happy leaving it to people with more experience. Now get that inventory done before I send you back to the forest."
The red headed women grumbled and returned to her notebook and pencil.

Dion continued down the hall with the sigil in his pocket. He didn't have the map any longer and had no idea where the entrance to the clock tower might be located. He was already tired of spending every day this week in the mall; he couldn't imagine how people worked here all the time. It was possible to get used to anything, he once heard, but this place was beyond understanding. The only reason he was here was to get his parents out of the tower.
He'd spent a lot of time on the phone with Lilly before coming here. She'd broken the news to her parents about their engagement, which he suspected would happen once Emily told her father. Whatever. Right now, all he could think about was the location of the tower.
It was situated right in the middle of the mall. The tower had four clocks mounted in it; each one faced a different section of the mall. The clock faces could be viewed at any location in the mall since the top of the mall was built to be a transparent atrium. It allowed the sunlight in and saved money on lighting, or so the story was told. In truth, Dion felt the reason for the atrium glass was to allow the clock tower to spy on the mall. There was a small section on top of it with windows that would allow someone to be stationed in it and have the mall under surveillance at all times.
"It's at the end of the hall," a voice said behind him. "A door marked 'Employees Only' takes you into the personnel office. Beyond that you will find a wooden door to the tower."
Dion turned to face the form of his grandfather. The old man, who had passed on years ago, stood there alone. There were so many questions he wanted to ask his grandfather.
"How will I know it's the door into the tower?" Dion asked him. "I would expect the office has many doors inside it."
"The one to the tower will be obvious. The sigil given to you will open it. You must hurry. You need to arrive there today."
"Grandfather, there is a lot I want to know. My uncle claims my real father was someone other than the man who raised me. What is the truth?"
But his grandfather was gone.
Empty space was in front of him. Dion shook his head and looked again. There were so many rules to this game that he didn't know. He shrugged and continued down the hall in search of the door into the personnel office that his grandfather informed him about it.
He found the door a few minutes later. It was at the end of the corridor, as he'd been informed. The door was glass with the words stenciled on it just as his grandfather told him. As Dion watched, the door swung open and two young high school girls emerged with applications in their hands. They waved at Dion and continued down the hall. The glass door was translucent, so he couldn't see what was on the other side. Dion pulled the door open and went inside.
It was a small waiting room with pictures on the wall of the other properties his uncle owned. There were no exterior windows and soft music played from hidden speaker. A few chairs, and at least one couch, faced the desk where a small man sat with a pile of papers stacked in front of him. He wore a shirt, tie, and was busy making notes on each stapled collection of documents piled next to him on the desk.
"Hello, Dion," Edward said to him. "I wondered how long it would take you to arrive."
"You work for the mall?" Dion asked. "I had the impression you weren't part of this time circle."
"I wanted to see you off," he said while rising from the desk. "It's not often that one gets to meet a knight on the verge of his final quest. So I made an arrangement with a temporary company who placed me here. The regular human resource manager needed a day off and I was able to fill her position while she took some vacation time."
Edward looked back at the table behind him. "Beastly job, I don't know how anyone manages to do it. I've spent the day evaluating peoples' performances. Someone will wonder why they all have 'outstanding' marked on their performance reviews, but I decided anyone who works in this temple of consummation deserve it."
"So where is this door to the main tower?" Dion asked.
"You have the sigil to open it?" Edward asked him. He smoothed out his trousers. "Disgraceful clothes they sell in this place. Hardly a decent pair of pants anywhere. Don't get me started on these clip-on bow ties."
Dion pulled the silver disc from the pocket of his jacket and held it up.
"That's the right one," Edward said. "I see you do have a good supplier. Those are hard to find. Now let's go to the entrance." He turned and walked down the hall that led from the office. Dion followed him.
The door was massive. It was made of solid wood and had twelve locks on it. The first one started at the bottom and the others continued all the way to the top. There was even a secondary lock at the doorknob. The wood was made from lignum vitae, a wood so hard it was known to break axes. As Dion looked the door over, Edward rattled on about the construction and the history behind it. Not that any of it would affect Dion's need to get on the other side; Edward just liked to hear himself talk.
"Built in the year 1531," he told Dion. "It was supposed to be the door to a duke's study in the south of France. He felt a secure door would protect him from his knights. In spite of what you may have read in the history books, medieval nobility didn't always trust the men in arms under them. This door was never installed in the duke's palace. Instead, it was impounded by a tax collector when the duke failed to pay the king's share on the funds he squeezed out of his farmers. The door ended up in many places, all of whom shared one thing in common: a bad end. Note the carved face of a fiend at the top. This indicated exquisite care put into it, it also means the door was sacred to the night side of the elements. It's a one-way trip to the abyss if you don't know how to open it right. Now, can I see the sigil?"
Dion, a little bored by Edward's history lesson, pulled it out of his pocket again. "Hobbs told me to place it at the lock..."
"Did he tell you which one?"
"No, I didn't realize there would be more than one."
Edward sighed. "Even the retailer fails to read the instructions these days. Something tells me Mr. Hobbs doesn't know a how to operate this key. You have to put it on the right lock, or it won't work. If you activate it on the wrong lock, not only does the door remain closed, but also the sigil burns up. And where will you get another one on short notice? There is a five-year backlog from the factory on these things. Here, just give it to me and I'll take care of it."
"I think I'm supposed to be the one who activates it," Dion said. "At least I've done every part of this phase by myself. It's why I don't have anyone with me."
Edward looked at him. "You might be right at that. It's been a long time since I've used one of them. The last one was supposed to open a treasure chest. It opened it all right, but all that remained inside was an IOU note from the last thief who got inside. Go ahead and place it on the lock right next to the latch. The other ones are dummies designed to fool an uneducated burglar."
"Do I have to chant anything? Hobbs didn't give me any words to say."
"No," Edward said as he adjusted his bowtie. "Just put it in place. The sigil key is self-acting and will penetrate the door on its own."
Dion walked to the strange door and placed the silver disc next to the latch, just as if Edward told him. He felt it attach itself to the door. Dion could feel the disc pull when he drew back to make sure it would stay in place. He removed his hand and the disc stayed put, even though there was nothing sticky on it or the door.
Then Dion noticed something else.
"There is more than one latch on this door. Did I put it on the right one?"
Edward stepped closer to look at the door. "You're right. There is more than one latch. The designer of this door thought of everything."
"But is it the right latch?"
"I don't know. Guess we will both know in a few minutes."
"I was told to stand back."
Both of them took a few steps away from the door.
There was a buzzing sound from the sigil disc and it began to spin in place. The disc spun faster until it turned into a blur. Then it stopped, rotated back a few turns, rotated forward a few more, and made a few more backwards rotations. This continued for a few more minutes.
"What is it doing?" Dion asked Edward.
"I believe it's trying to find the correct combination," the small Englishman replied. "Similar to the dial on a safe."
The disc ceased its movement and remained still. Dion waited a few more minutes and turned to Edward.
"Is it done?" he asked.
The response came with the sound of a multitude of locks unsnapping. The door slowly began to open with the loud creak of something not used in a long time. When the door was perpendicular to the doorway, it ceased moving. There was very little light inside the room beyond the door.
"It worked," Edward, proclaimed. "I don't think those additional locks were dummy ones after all. Did you hear the sounds they made?"
"I'm sure the entire office did."
"Or would, but I gave them the day off. Now off with you! The door will close in sixty seconds."
Dion shook Edward's hand as he walked into the passage to the clock tower. Edward watched him go inside and vanish with the light into the next room. Just as he'd predicted, the door swung shut and closed less than a minute later. The sound of locks triggering were heard.
Then silence.
Edward bent over to look at the door. The sigil disc was gone. There was no trace of one ever being attached to the door.
"Single use," Edward noted. "Just as I thought. Now how will he ever get out of there? I'm sure he'll find a way. He's resourceful. Oh, well, back to those disgusting performance reviews."
He turned and went back to the office.

Chapter 2

Dion rubbed his eyes as the light returned. This was similar to the last time he'd been sent outside the circle of time where the mall existed. The light would fade, and then return with fury as he found himself in a new environment.
The door must work the same way. He turned to look at the door from the other side and found a blank wall behind him. How was he supposed to return from where he'd come? The door had to work in one direction only. There must be other ways out of the clock tower, but escape was not on the front of his mind.
Now that there was light around him, Dion could see where he was. It was another office, not surprising, as he'd left one before this place. It was made from modern furniture and the fabric on the walls appeared to be fresh. The paint on the office furniture was unblemished. This office appeared to be brand new.
This time there were two men behind the desk.
They sat on opposite sides of the small partner's desk. Both wore leisure suits, although one had blue polyester and the other green. Both had printed silk shirts, which were open with the lapels over the suit. Neither wore ties. Dion looked at them again and tried to figure out what else seemed strange about the two of them.
They were twins.
Not identical twins but close enough in physical height and weight to be indistinguishable from the other. Both looked to be in their twenties and both were about five foot seven. One had dark hair, the other was blond. The blond twin had dark eyes and the black haired one had blue eyes. They were both typing on electric typewriters when Dion entered the room and stopped when they turned around to face him. Dion heard the zing of a carriage return and the hum from the typewriter as one of them finished what he'd typed.
"Can we help you?" the blond twin asked him. "It has been a long time since someone used that door."
"At least twenty years," the black haired twin responded. "I think we should celebrate this event."
"The tower wasn't built that long ago," Dion said. "And this office appears to be brand new. Both of you would have been toddlers if you were around back then."
"Who said anything about being around here twenty years ago?" the blond twin snipped.
"And this tower has been around a lot longer than what you might think," the brunette added. "You focus on the exteriors and ignore the truth of what it hides. Just like the man who sees a rope in the dusk and assumes it to be a snake."
"Or one who sees a snake and assumes a rope," the other pointed out. "The tower exists in many places at the same time."
"I'm Dion," he introduced himself.
"Pleased to meet you, Dion," the blond said to him. "I'm Anders."
"And I'm Blaze," the other said. "We are the Chance brothers. You may have noted we are twins."
"But not identical," Dion said.
"What are you talking about?" Anders snapped at him. "Can't you see we are the same in every way shape and form?"
"No difference?" Blaze responded. "I'm surprised to hear you say that. Most people can't tell us apart."
Dion refrained from mentioning the hair and eye color distinctions. When he was living in California, there were two brothers who were identical twins. The only difference was the birthmark one had on the back of his neck. It was common to see the other kids walk up behind one or the other and look at the neck to see whom they'd be conversing with today. These two, were easy to tell apart.
"So what kind of work do you do here?" Dion asked, as he hoped to change the subject.
"This is the Department of Disunity," Blaze told him. "We are very important in the administration of the tower."
"It couldn't function without us," Anders added. "This place would sink into the abyss if we weren't here."
"Not that it would be a bad thing," he brother said. "Sometimes we are bored beyond belief in this place. We just finished typing up a report to send upstairs."
"Spent two years on that one."
"No, I think it was five. Doesn't matter, it's done and now they have our findings."
"I assume it wasn't anything to do with the mall," Dion said. "It hasn't been around that long."
"Mall?" Anders' eyes went wide. "What mall?"
"The Fromatius Mall. I entered this office from it. You know the one around the tower."
"They built a mall, did they?" Blaze asked. "So that explains all the feasibility work the upper floor had us doing before this report. I thought they might be working on something like it."
Dion looked at them oddly. Nothing in this office made sense, but he'd entered the clock tower by way of a door that vanished once he used it. They were contradicting themselves and didn't seem to care on way or another.
"How often do you guys get out?
"We never leave," the twins said simultaneously.
"There is a mall around the clock tower. Do you ever go upstairs? You can see windows at the top of the tower from the ground level of the mall.
"We've never had a reason to do that," Anders explained. "The upper floor sends us paper work and we take care of it."
"Every so often someone like you appears," Blaze said. "But not too often."
"What happens when they do? Do you send them upstairs?"
"Oh, my goodness, no," Anders told him. "They would never forgive us if we did that. We'd never hear the end of it. More paperwork. Tons of it."
Dion continued to stare at the two of them. He looked around the office and didn't see a door to any place. If there was a way out of this office, it wasn't evident to him. Perhaps they were right about never leaving it. The perfect office workers. Trapped in their little spaces for all eternity. If the tower existed in multiple time circles, as they claimed, there was no one place each level or door might lead. The same door, which took you into one room, might dump you into a jungle when you left. He no longer had the sigil disc as it was used up when he opened the door into this room. If he were to get out of here, he would need the help of these two. Provided they could give him any help at all.
"So what happens to the people who come through the door?" Dion asked them. "I mean the one behind me that isn't there any longer."
"It's still there," Blaze said. "You just have to look for it."
"Can't be seen by the uninitiated," Anders pointed out. "But, in his case, I don't think he even knows about the temple."
"He might. Is he a unitarian or a dualist? What do you think?"
"I'd suggest a syndicalist."
"Did I say a word about politics?"
"Who said a syndicalist couldn't also be a dualist? Have you been reading those old books again?"
"I'm talking about the third commentary of the fourth citation of Ames and Breslow. Didn't we bring that one up last week?"
"No, we were discussing the lack of intersectionality on the progress of critical mathematical studies. You were the one who brought it up when we had our quota accomplished for the day. I pulled out that journal and showed it to you. It caused more confusion than the survey about Planck's constant."
The two of them ignored Dion and continued to babble on for another fifteen minutes. He was unsure about the way time ran in this part of the tower, but he assumed it worked the same way outside the tower. Dion looked at his wristwatch. It showed twenty minutes had elapsed between the time he stepped into the doorway and now. At least the passage of time was constant. It also told him he had only twelve hours to reach his parents and the Aether Grandmaster.
"Pardon me," Dion cut into their diffuse discussion. "I don't mean to interrupt your progress, but I need to get to my parents. They are somewhere in this tower. I need to find the Aether Grandmaster too. She's held inside here as well. Do either of you know where they might be?"
The starred at him for a few seconds. Finally, Anders took a phone receiver off its cradle. From his side of the table, Dion could see Blaze dial a telephone number. Anders waited until the phone on the other end was answered before he said a word. But he didn't take his eyes off Dion. Neither one of them did.
"Hello, security?" he said into the receiver. "We have a live one here. Yes, the young man you told us to watch out for yesterday. He's here and you need to get over to our office and deal with him. No, we're not going anywhere. Yes, we'll be here until you arrive." He hung up the phone.
Dion looked at them.
What kind of game was played in this tower? He entered with a door that disappeared behind him to an office run by twins who didn't look alike and were angry when you pointed it out. They couldn't make up their minds about anything and now they'd called security on him. Dion was in no mood to deal with more goons after the past few days in the mall and his confrontation with Karanzen's security guards.
He decided to try a new approach.
"Do you have any idea who I am?" He asked them with a stern look on his face.
Blaze turned to his brother. "Smart kid, isn't he?"
"Assumes a lot, I have to admit," his brother responded. He turned to Dion. "Of course we know who you are. You're the communist they warned us about last week. And now you can deal with our peoples."
"No, he's a fascist," Blaze corrected. "Didn't you read the memo?"
"That was last month."
"No, last month was the monarchist. You almost let him through."
"Because he told us he was trying to stop the revolution."
"Why would a monarchist be in favor of a revolution?"
"I said he was trying to stop one! Don't you ever listen to anything I say?"
"I'm Seth Bach's nephew. If you don't show me how to get to the next level, both of you are going to be in deep trouble."
"Deep what?" Anders said to him.
"Who's nephew?" The other said.
They stared at him for a good thirty seconds, finally one of them spoke.
"Why didn't you tell us that in the first place?" Anders asked. He reached over and slid his hand under the table. There was a click and a cabinet full of books next to him swung open to reveal a hidden staircase.
"Sorry," apologized Blaze, "we thought you were the man with the FBI. Please convey our apologies to your uncle."
"I thought he was with the CIA."

Chapter 3

Dion turned and walked to the staircase. It led upwards, but he couldn't tell where it went. At this moment, he didn't care because it would get him away from these two.
He walked up the stairs and heard the sound of the twins arguing as the cabinet closed and clicked into place behind him.
The staircase was long and steep. How it was approved by the building code was a mystery to Dion until it occurred to him that the tower was in many different time circles, which meant the inspectors were shown something other than the tower. He climbed the stairs. Dion noted the light was very faint in the staircase, probably for a definite reason. He turned his head upward and saw that the light emitted from gas flames. They flared out from small jets in the ceiling. Gas lighting was almost unheard of which meant the building was never inspected or he was in a time circle where it was common. He bet on the latter.
Dion reached the top of the steps after a few minutes. The steps were placed higher the further you climbed up the stairs, which made it difficult to mount the last few ones. It was this way for a purpose, he decided. The best he could figure out was the builder of the stairs wanted to make the person who ascended them think about where they were headed. By the time he reached the final step, Dion was exhausted and leaned on the wall before trying the handle.
He found it unlocked and the door, made of a lightwood, swung without much effort.
Dion walked into the room and blinked at the light, which nearly blinded him. It wasn't that the light was intense, the room was painted white and the light reflected off the surfaces and into his face. Dion let his eyes adjust from the dark staircase for a few minutes to the difference in the room. He closed the door behind him and looked around.
The room was empty. Empty as in there was nothing inside. He walked the expanse of the room, which had to be twelve by twelve feet, and looked at the floor and ceiling. All were a bright shade of white. It was as if someone had entered the room with an airless spray unit, popped open some five-gallon pails of latex paint, and proceeded to coat the entire room from top to bottom. Even the chairs, which sat in the corner, were painted with the same bright white color. So was the rest of the room. He looked at the wall and noted the coating was continuous, which meant the room was painted at the same time. Dion tried to scratch a bit of the paint away and discovered it to be on an ordinary wall. Off course, the wall was white, but made out of stone. The room lacked windows, which didn't surprise him, as they were deep inside the tower.
He turned around and looked at the door he's used to get inside it. Once again, the door was gone. Was this a truth for all the doors in the tower? Dion looked around and noted there were no doors on any of the other walls. He appeared to be trapped inside a room and this time there was nothing to hide a secret passage, or so it seemed.
There was a hum and the outline of a door appeared on the wall in front of him. He stood and watched as the outline merged into the image of a wooden door with a peephole in the center, up near the top. The sound stopped as the door took material form. Dion stepped back and the door's lock clicked as it opened and swung out to meet him.
From out of the door stepped a man in his forties dressed in white. He was slender with blonde hair and a contagious smile. He shut the door behind him as he entered the room, but the lock did not click a second time.
"Good day," the man said to Dion as he extended a hand. "I am Adam Belial. You are Dion?"
"I am. I've just came from the other office, the one down at the end of the stair case. Do all the doors here form and disappear when you are done with them?"
"Not all," the man told him, "but many do. I would say most fit the profile you just described to me. It's a safety feature in the building. You don't want the wrong people penetrating the financial sector as they could easily run out with economic reports. Imagine how that would damage the company. This way they can't get any further unless someone allows them to do so."
Dion looked the blank room over. "Interesting decoration. I expect you paid a lot of money to have it done."
"Not me. The man who owns the corporation did it out of his own pocket, if I recall correctly."
"So what kind of work do you accomplish here, Adam?"
"I'm not sure."
"You're not sure?"
"I was hired to run this office three months ago. They still haven't told me what I'm supposed to be doing."
"Does this office have a name?"
"It's a separate company inside the mall management. We're known as Edom Consulting. At least that is what I know from the name on the stationary. I don't see much of the building. As far as I can tell, my office is cut-off from the rest of the world. Would you like to see the rest of it? This is only the antechamber."
"I'd love to. Please tell me it was more furnishings than this room."
"Of course. This room is where I meet new clients. Can't impress them unless you keep them guessing, as I once heard someone say."
He turned to the other door and made a few passes over the door. There was another sound of a lock unclicking and the door swung open again. Adam held the door open for Dion.
"After you," he invited Dion.
The next room was a vast library. Dion walked inside it and admired the extensive collection of materials it contained. He went to the nearest shelf and pulled out one of the books. It was in a language he couldn't understand, so he placed it back on the shelf. As Adam watched, Dion pulled several other books from the shelves and looked at them too. Each one was in a different language. He looked at a few more. Also in different languages. A few used alphabets he did recognize and some even had characters in the standard Roman style of writing. But none of them had words that he understood. Nor were any two the same.
After a few more minutes of his book hunt, Dion found one that was in English. It was one he could read. Naturally, it was a book of limericks and he couldn't make sense out of the subject. Dion sighed and returned the book to the shelf.
He turned to Adam, who still waited in silence. "Is this your job? Taking care of all these books?"
"It's one of my jobs."
"And the other?"
"Processing people who come through here."
"I thought that was the job of the twins in the last room."
"Oh, no. They don't really do anything other than screen out travelers who found a way past that door. A few minutes with them and most people are begging to be sent back to where they came."
"So what is the next destination on my trip?" Dion asked him. He didn't see any windows in this room either.
"Through that door over there," Adam pointed to the one at the other end of the room. Dion failed to notice it when he came into the library.
They walked across the library to the door on the opposite end. Once again, Adam opened it and beckoned Dion to walk to the other side. Once again, Dion followed his request and went through the door. Like the last one, it was too dark to see what was on the other side of the door before he walked through it.
Dion walked into a thunderstorm.
It was night and the lighting lit up the sky the moment he was through the door. He found himself outside and protected by the rain from a cupola, which extended a few yards over the door.
In the distance, the lightening illuminated a lone tower that stood across the rain-drenched landscape. The tower appeared to be several hundred yards away and the only thing he could see in the distance, due to the storm, was a river on the other side of it.
"I thought I was in a tower," Dion said to Adam who stood next to him with his hand on the door. It was still open. "Where am I?"
"That was someone's time circle," Adam told him. "This is another one. The tower exists in many places and circles. You'll need to reach the one over there if you want to achieve your goal. I'm not permitted to tell you anymore than this."
"But what about the clock tower that overlooks the mall?"
Adam frowned. "I really have no idea what you are talking about," He said and shut the door on Dion. Dion heard the lock click on the other side. There was a flash and he found himself starring at a gray rock wall.

Chapter 4

Dion was soaked by the time he'd walked thirty yards. The tower was the only shelter he could see in the darkness besides the covering he'd just left. Mud covered his high-top shoes by the time he was at the halfway point to the tower. The rain was cold and beat on him from all sides as the wind shifted. Clouds covered the stars and sky, which further increased the blackness into which he walked. The only way he could see the ground was when the lighting arced across the sly and lit everything up. The ground was hard and full of rocks.
He was in some kind of valley. The tower overlooked the river from a high vantage point, but he could see no signs of habitation anywhere else. Dion had no idea where he was. The only thing, which offered safety, was the tower and he didn't know what lay inside it. Light flicked from the occasional window in the tower, so someone had to be there.
The tower was forty-four stories high. Dion managed to count them as he trudged his way in its direction. The different levels had windows, but he could see no one at them. All the windows were protected by translucent glass, which made sense in this weather. Occasionally when the lighting illuminated the sky, he could see crosses cut into the stone. He puzzled over their meaning. Then it hit him: the crosses were arrow slits for archers and snipers. The same for the crenellation on the top of the tower, it allowed a defender protection from any ground fire. This tower, which appeared to be made of stone, was very old. It was also positioned here for military reasons and not a tourist attraction.
He stopped at the ramp that led to the huge twin doors on the first level of the tower. The wind continued to pound him with rain. Never once had the storm lifted in his walk across the field, which separated the tower from the rock walls where Adam dumped him. Dion could still see the lights burning in the windows, but no one waited for him at the door. The tower, which had to protect this valley from something or someone, lacked any kind of heraldry or banners. It had no fortifications or walls around it. It did have a moat around it. The sheer size alone was enough to give any potential attacked a second thought about an assault. There was a bridge across the moat, but very little water flowed through it. Dion wondered if the tower was still in active use, or just some kind of relic. Given the remote location, whoever built might've repurposed the tower once it was of no more strategic value.
Dion tested the bridge and found it would support his weight. He looked down and didn't notice any spikes at the bottom, just a shallow stream of dirty water that flowed a few feet deep at the bottom. It was still a thirty-foot drop. He trod across the bridge with care and stayed in the middle. It moaned under his weight and he doubted the bridge could hold much more than what he weighed.
Once across the bridge, he mounted the ramp and walked up to the doors. The second before he raised his hand to pound on the door, a bolt of lightning ripped across the sky, which almost blinded him. He counted two seconds between its appearance and the sound of thunder. The noise was loud enough to deafen him. Based on the last time he timed the lighting, the storm wasn't going anywhere. He'd left his smart phone back at the house this morning. He doubted there would be a signal in this place for a weather report.
Shivering from the wet cold, Dion pounded on the doors. No one came to answer him, so he tried the handle. Locked, just as he suspected. Whoever was inside that tower didn't want to deal with whatever lurked in this night land. Dion waited a bit longer and pounded again. He prayed the lighting would not pick this moment to try some target practice.
This time a peephole opened up inside one of the big doors. The peephole was about five feet from the ground and no more than six by six inches. It was built for concealment and he didn't notice the tiny door until it opened. A pair of eyes starred at him until it shut.
There were multiple sounds from the other side of the massive doors as someone unlocked them from inside the tower. Dion stepped back as he couldn't tell which direction the doors would swing. The lighting gave him a better look at the doors, which were covered in metal and studded with spikes. Whoever built the tower knew the entrance would be a weak point if it were under attack.
The doors swung out very slow. Dion could hear a clacking as they opened. It occurred to him that the doors were too heavy to be pushed and had some kind of mechanical system to open them. He'd noticed a small stone building attached to the tower near the base and wondered if it had something to do with the door's operation. He doubted it as the outbuilding would make the door vulnerable to an opposing force. Whoever built the tower wanted everything protected on the inside of it.
The doors took a full minute to crank open. Dion guessed this was for protection as well. You didn't want huge doors that could be swung open quick during combat. If the doors locked in place when they opened, this gave extra protection to an adversary who tried to storm them from the ramp. Although, given the lack of any structures in the visible distance, where could anyone hide who attacked this tower?
There wasn't much light on the inside but Dion could see a figure who held a lantern. The doors stopped their motion at the apex. Since he had nowhere else to go, Dion stepped inside and let the cold water drain from his clothes. His hair was matted down from the wind and rain. He shivered from the walk through the storm.
"Please step inside a little further so I can close the doors," a voice said to him. Dion complied and tried to wipe the water from his face.
He thought the voice sounded feminine, but the thunder muffled his hearing. Dion couldn't be sure how anything sounded until his sense of sound returned to normal
Dion heard the doors began to move back in place when he was clear of them. Once the doors closed, he heard the sound of locks as they snapped into place. This had to be done by something automatic since the dim figure in front of him hadn't moved since he'd entered.
Once he managed to wipe the rain from his face and his vision adjusted to the dark room, Dion was able to see the person in front of him.
The person who'd opened the door was a woman. She was dressed in black.
Not only was her outfit, a dress which cascaded to the floor, black, but so was the woman who faced him. Dion himself was dark in complexion, but this woman was the color of a black diamond. She appeared to be in her thirties and had blood red lips. Her hair was straight and flowed down to her waist, but was unkempt. As his vision further adjusted to the room, he could see she held a short spear in the other hand. Her nails were the same brilliant red color as her lips. She was also barefoot.
"Pardon the spear," she apologized. "But we can't assume anyone knocking on the door is a friend. I'm Kiley Mahen. We've been expecting you, Dion."
"You know my name," he stated. Somehow, this wasn't a surprise.
"I know a lot about you," she told him. "The elemental grandmaster you need to find isn't here, but she's supposed to be back soon. The sooner the better for all our sakes. Come upstairs with me, I'll get you some dry clothes and everything will be explained."
Dion heard a rumble to his right and turned to look. The lamp cast long shadows in the room they were inside and Dion noticed the large boxes and crates piled around them. They were in some kind of storage area or warehouse with wooden crates piled every place. He saw all manner of tools and metal piled up in on corner. The level they were on, the ground floor, was easily two levels high to accommodate whatever they needed to bring into to the tower. The stairs to the tower where built into one side of it. He could see the doorway leading up to the next level.
"You bring people into this room?" Dion asked her. "Guests are shown the warehouse?"
"This tower was built for defense," she told him. "It has guarded the Borgia Pass for the past thousand years. It's only in the last hundred years the pass was at peace. We were sold the tower because no one thought there was the possibility of invasion again. Besides, air power takes out any reason for a huge fortress such as this place represents. Do you want to go upstairs and get into some dry clothes or do you prefer to stay down here and shiver?"
Dion was about to apologize when he heard the rumbling noised and turned to look again. The light had cast a beam on the bars of a cage. No, it was another entrance of some kind. The bars blocked something from entering the bottom level of the tower. This had to be the small, attached building he noted on his approach to the tower. From the bars, he could see the eyes of something very big stare at him with hunger.
"That's Draco," she told him. "We keep him in the former stables. Don't need to keep teams of horses in reserve any longer since the tower doesn't guard the pass. There is a barn out back for the ones we need. We do use the old stables to keep Draco inside when the weather is bad. Can't let him run free in the tower, too dangerous. He has plenty of room to hunt outside when the weather is good. Keeps the deer population under control and people away."
She held the lantern up a little bit higher and Dion could see the face of a very big adult lion that starred at them from the bars. The beast didn't look very friendly and all Dion could see in those eyes was a big cat who considered him dinner. "Draco" growled again, the source of the rumbling noise he'd heard.
"That cage door is locked?" Dion said to her.
"Of course," Kiley replied. "How stupid do you think we are? Draco is a wild animal. Always will be. The only reason we have him here is for protection. Now come on, don't you want to see the rest of the tower?"
He followed her to the stairwell. His shoes made a squish every time they touched the stone steps. Water still dripped off him. The stairwell felt chilly, it was obvious the tower lacked any kind of central heating. He wanted to ask the women where they were, but Dion decided to take his time about gathering information. She's known his name when he arrived and acted as if he was expected. Plus, she knew about the Aether Grandmaster he needed to locate.
At least the grandmaster didn't appear to be in danger. One of the reasons for his trip to the clock tower in the mall was to rescue her and obtain full aether elemental powers. But, according to this woman, she was gone. At least for the moment.
The other thing he wanted to ask her about was....
"You uncle is upstairs too," the woman told him, as she looked back. He red lips contrasted with the rest of her appearance and Dion noted she had red eyes to match. Who had red eyes unless they were bloodshot? In this woman's case, the entire cornea was red. Was she even human?
"I expected to meet my uncle on this side," Dion remarked, "just not as quick."
"He informed us about your arrival," She told him. "Your uncle is an interesting man, to say the least. He seems to think his birthright was stolen from him. He also felt he could manipulate the abyss to do what he wanted. But now he's opened a gate to it and we have to deal with the consequences. You'll learn more when we get the great hall."
He exited the stairwell into a smaller room. Dion looked up to see the light of the lantern vanish into the open space and realized the small room was divided by a series of partitions. The tower solved the problem of privacy by creating dividers inside each level, but this one lacked a ceiling for some reason. He stopped and let the water flow off him. Kiley opened a small cupboard door and took out some dry clothes.
"Here you go," she said. "There's a towel with them too. On the floor, you will find a basket. Drop your wet things into the basket. The maids will take care of them later. Put on what you find in the bundle."
Dion took the clothes from her.
She handed him a pair of boots. "These should fit you. I'll be outside with everyone else. When you are ready, come and see us. There are a number of people out there who want to meet you." She opened the door on the other side of the partition and left him with his clothes.
Dion removed his dripping clothes and dropped them in the basket next to the door. After drying himself off with the towel, he unfolded the clothes she gave him. It consisted of a tunic and pair of loose hose. Since he didn't want to violate her hospitality, Dion went ahead and put them on, followed by the boots. This was a little bit difficult since there weren't any chairs in the vestibule. Comfort was not a big item to whoever lived in the tower. And he didn't even know if it had a name or did they just call it "The Tower"?
He left the vestibule and shut the door behind him. Dion found himself in a large hall, which was, once again, two levels in height. Whoever built the tower wanted it to impress everyone. At one end of the hall was a large fireplace with a stack of wood, which burned and produced enough heat for the entire hall. In front of it was a long table where a group of people was seated. They turned to him when he approached.
It was that moment he recognized his parents.

Chapter 5

Dion's mother jumped up from the table and ran to him. She wasn't his height, but his mother could still toss her arms around him. Dion was relieved, as he now knew both of his parents were safe, something which concerned him for the past year. His father stood up and walked over to Dion too, placing his arms around both Dion and his mother.
The other person he noted at the table was his Uncle Seth. His uncle sat closer to the fire, near the three women at the head of the table. As Dion expected, he didn't look too happy to see him. It was obvious his uncle was not in charge in this place. If anyone was in control of this tower, it had to be the three women on the other end of the table.
One of whom was the same woman that greeted him when he entered the tower.
"I was worried we'd never see you again," his mother wept on his shoulder. "I knew you'd find us, I always knew you would make it here. Your father worried it was too much responsibility, but I knew you'd come for us." She continued to sob.
His father removed his arms and stepped back. "As you can see," he announced to Dion, "We are guests of the ladies who own this tower. As is your Uncle Seth." He glared at his brother.
Dion was happy to be reunited with his parents, but he needed to know something. When he last confronted his uncle outside the shopping mall, his uncle made a claim that needed to be resolved. This might not be the best time or place to ask such questions, but he had to know for sure.
"I'm glad to see both of you too," he told them. "But there is something I need to know." His mother released him and stood back.
"What is so important you need to hear it from us before we get out of this place?" she asked.
Dion looked up at the great hall and thought for a few minutes. He had to word his question with care or he'd never know the truth. And he needed to know, or it would affect his ability to get them all back home. He could see a small window near him and watched the lighting illuminate the sky once again. The storm raged in the distance. He was grateful he'd found his way to the tower before it got this bad.
While the thunder boomed outside, Dion looked the great hall over. He could see several small rooms and partitions that were built into the far end of the wall. Metal pipes ran down into the rooms, which confirmed what he thought. The tower had its own plumbing system and it was protected by the walls. This had to be a recent innovation. Indoor plumbing would not be big concern to a war tower.
Banners hung down from inside the walls. The entire hall was illuminated by lamps and candles. He couldn't see any electrical devices inside, which seemed to indicate the tower didn't have electricity. He wondered if this particular time circle used electrical power or did the tower lack it? Surely, wiring the entire tower for power would be expensive, but so would any construction work need to make it into an estate and not a military emplacement.
"I want to know if you are my real parents," he asked his mother and father. "Uncle Seth claimed you aren't. I don't expect much in the way of truth from him, but I need to know."
His mother appeared shocked, but the look on her face told him a lot, as she lowered he head. His father put his arm protectively against the shoulders of his wife and looked at their son.
"We're you foster parents, Dion," he told him. "We planned to tell you when you were much older, but I see my brother has forced this issue."
"I hate to interrupt this moment," Seth Bach spoke from the table near the fireplace, "But we have to talk about something. In particular, the reason we are all in this place. You've just had your tearful family reunion and I sympathize with what you had to go through to be here, Dion."
"In spite of the fact that it's because of you I'm here," Dion snapped from across the room. "You did your best to keep me from reaching the elemental grandmasters that just happened to be working in the shopping mall you owned. You had my parents abducted over a year ago and paid to have my friends snatched away too. You've threatened me with all kinds of things and tried to keep me away from fulfilling my quest. Now, what on earth could you have to say?"
"I think he's a little bit angry, don't you?" It was one of the women at the other end of the table, close to the fireplace. "Why don't you come and sit at the table Dion. Dinner is almost ready and I'm told you like beef stew. The cooks are serving it tonight. I'm sure you'll like their recipe."
"Let's go sit down," his father said to him. Dion still thought of the two people who raised him as his real parents, even though they'd confessed to being his foster parents. Dion followed them to the table where they seated themselves between his uncle and the three women on the end.
"So what did you want to talk about?" Dion said to his uncle. "I don't have the slightest idea where I am. I went through a door into your clock tower in the middle of the mall and emerged in two different rooms. The last one ended up across the fields. Where is this place?"
"Outside the time circle you remember," his uncle Seth replied. "I expect you understand this after what you had to endure. Sorry about all the trouble I had to put you through to get you to the tower, but it was the only way I could accomplish it. I knew if your parents were gone, you'd do anything to get them back, including obtaining full elemental powers from the grandmasters. No, they weren't in on my little ruse. I really didn't think you would pull it off, but you impressed me. And now you are here to obtain the Aether Grandmaster's accolade, but she is nowhere to be found."
"She supposed to be back," said one of the women at the other end of the table.
"Why did you allow her to leave?" one of the other women asked her.
"Wasn't my place to stop her."
Dion looked at the two women who sat next to Kiley Mahen. It took him a few minutes to realize it, but they were related. The same body types and facial structures. All were as dark as Kiley, but they were of different ages. The one who sat next to her wore the same kind of gown, but it was golden yellow. The woman to her right was dressed the same too, but she wore green.
Although Kiley appeared to be in her thirties, the women in yellow looked in her late twenties, with the remaining women in her early twenties, perhaps just eighteen. All of them possessed the intense dark complexion and red eyes. If they were the same age, the women would've passed for triplets.
Dion tensed as another clap of thunder boomed outside the tower.
"Don't worry about it," the women in yellow said to him. "Lightning rods protect this place. We've put them all over the tower."
"Forgive our lack of manners," Kiley said to him. "These are my sisters, as you probably can tell."
"There is a slight resemblance..." Dion began to say.
"The lady next to me is my younger sister Loris," Kiley told him. "The one in green next to her is my youngest sister, Susan. We own this tower."
"Lease it from the kingdom, actually," said the one called Loris. "The kingdom owns it."
"We have a thirteen hundred year lease on the tower and the property," Susan explained. "Yes, the kingdom does technically own it, but our family has been here the past hundred years, ever since the tower was decommissioned. So long as the court gets their money, no one cares what we do here."
"That is all about to change," Seth Bach said, as he placed a glass of wine down on the table. "When your illustrious sovereign finds out who's taken the tower, I dare say she'll have it pulverized."
"We have them under control!" Kiley snapped at him. "And they wouldn't be here if you hadn't showed up with your schemes."
"You didn't mind the funds when I gave them to you," he sneered. "A little short on the monthly payments to the capitol? It's hard to make those transactions when the local farmers have packed-up and left. No farmer to soak for taxes means no cash for the tower."
"It was a temporary condition," Susan spoke up. "But you convinced us to allow you to establish the abyss link and now we're stuck with what's in the top of the tower."
"Stuck with what?" Dion said. "You haven't made any sense so far."
"Queen Lilith and her Azuroth hordes," Kiley explained. "They control the top two levels of the tower."
"And they're about to burst through to the one below that," Seth told him. "The abyss experiment was supposed to ground the mall's clock tower in this time circle and provide me an unlimited source of electrical power for the mall. If I could've taken the mall off the power grid, it would show the way to provide cheap electrical power for the rest of the country."
"Which," Dion's father pointed out, "you would have provided cost-free to everyone."
"Nothing is cost-free," Seth Back snapped back. "Of course I expected to get something out of it. Do you think John D. Rockefeller gave away the oil from his wells? At least America would no longer have to worry about foreign oil."
"One set of infernal deals for another," Dion's father grumbled.
"It didn't work out so well," Dion's mother told him. "Your uncle let in a horde of creatures from the abyss to this place before he closed the gate. He can't send them back and they don't want to return."
"Queen Lilith and her minions," Seth grumbled as he took another sip. "She controls the top levels right now. My development laboratory was up there and she came through with her bad boys the first time the gate lifted. We had to retreat lower and barricade the stairs. This all happened three months ago, I don't see any further reason to discuss it further now that Dion knows about it."
"We had every precaution taken!" Seth Bach continued. "There wasn't a single safety factor we ignored. I had the instruments charged, the right protection in place and opened the gate to the generators. They were waiting on the other side. Someone tipped her off and she blew through with her minions the moment we began to pull power from the differential between the two universes. She destroyed every bit of equipment we had in place when they all charged through the opening."
"We know about it," Kiley Mahen replied, as she lifted a goblet to her mouth. "The noise was horrible. It woke up everyone."
"We had to send all our household guards up there with Seth's men to keep them from taking over the entire tower," Loris grumbled. "And we can't get rid of them."
"The gate closed when they destroyed the equipment," Seth explained. "I have no way to send them back."
"I still say we should have contacted the sovereign," Susan sniped. "When she finds out we opened a gate to the abyss, she'll send the army down here and they'll blow the entire tower up."
"And we could kiss good-bye our lease and property," Kiley returned. "Seth seems to think his nephew can succeed where he's failed."
"How am I supposed to bring this thing to an end?" Dion asked them. "Besides, I'm strictly here to get my parents and the aether grandmaster back home."
"You can't do that unless I open the door back to our time circle," his uncle explained. "You have four elemental powers and will soon have the fifth when the grandmaster returns. Then you will be strong enough to open the gate and send them back."
"I thought you had full power over the aether, dear uncle," Dion sneered. "Why can't you use it to send them back?"
"Because it takes all five powers," he reasoned. "Don't they teach you young elemental workers anything? Abyss creatures only respond to a combination of all five. When our grandmaster returns, you'll have them all."
Dion sighed. "Does this tower have a name?" he asked. "Or is it the only tower around?"
"Peace," Kiley Mahen told him from her side of the table. "Its official name is the Tower of Eternal Peace. But the locals call it Peace Tower."
Seth Bach stood up from the table. "Come on, Dion, you might as well see what we have to deal with in this place. I refuse to apologize for my actions because everyone sitting here would be wealthy beyond their dreams if it had worked out. I took a chance and it failed. Now I've had to do some bad things to fix it. Discussion over. Let's go, the elevator will take us most of the way up. Trust me; you don't want to walk all the way to the top of this tower. Its twenty-two stories high. The elevator can take us most of the distance. We take the elevator after you've seen the kitchen. You might as well get to see more of the tower"
Dion stood up, gave his mother one more hug and left with his uncle.
Just before he departed, Dion turned to the Mahen sisters at the table and asked them something on his mind. "Did you say your problems started three years ago?" he asked. "My uncle kidnapped my parents over a year ago."
"Different time circles," Susan Mahen told him. "The passage of time is different where you come from."
"Does that mean years will have passed when I return to my time?"
"No," Loris cut-in, "The door you used can be recalibrated to take you back to the moment you left, or at least a few seconds beyond it."
Dion nodded and followed his uncle upstairs.

Chapter 6

They stepped out of the stairwell into a huge kitchen, which took up one entire level. The kitchen area was designed as a combination mess hall, pantry and cooking area. Dion could see four or five cooks working away at the end of a table and using a stove that vented to the outside. A small fire provided heat from one end of the room. He could only speculate how cold this place became during the winter months.
"Next stairwell is over there," he pointed to another door. "The stair system doesn't connect. It was built that way in case the defenders needed to retreat to the top of the tower."
Dion followed him to the next stairwell, but stopped when he saw an open door between both passages. He turned and looked at his uncle with confusion. He doubted the builders of the tower had cut closets or rooms into the walls since that would have weakened them.
"Elevator shaft," he explained to him. "One of the few designs in this castle which turned out to anticipate the future. It still works because the counterbalance and pulley system is internal. Thank our lucky stars the maintenance crew finished working on it last month because we sure need it today."
Dion followed her into the next stairwell. This one took less time to ascend as the kitchen was built on a single level and not as large as the ground floor warehouse.
The elevator shaft was built into the inside of the tower, much in the manner of the plumbing. It wasn't very big and could only hold four people at most.  Dion expected some heavy freight elevator, such as the ones found in industrial plants where he originated, but this one was much smaller.
His uncle went to a small tube attached to the wall and blew a whistle, attached to the tube into it. "Murphy here," came the muffled voice from the tube.
"I'm in the great hall, Murphy," Dion's uncle said to the person on the other end of the tube. "We need to go up to the top. I've got my nephew with me and he needs to see what we have to contend with."
"Okay, "the voice replied. "You'll go all the way up to the nursey. Did you tell him you'll have to walk up to the next level beyond it?"
"He knows now. Give us thirty seconds."
They stepped into the elevator and waited. Dion noted again there was no door on the lift.
"They never saw the reason for an elevator door in this place," Dion's uncle explained. "Something to do with the family who leased the tower not wanting to be surprised. They put the elevator shaft in place, in case you wanted to know."
The elevator began to move up and Dion saw the great hall disappear as they ascended up the shaft. Another room appeared with the next opening, but they continued to travel upwards. It was quite different from being in an elevator from where he came. Dion never liked elevators; he hated the sense of isolation they gave him. It was a discomfort being inside one. It gave him the eerie sensation he was trapped. In this case, it was different; a person could jump off the elevator and reach the floor while it still moved.
"So how did you find this place?" Dion asked his uncle. He continued to watch the floors fall away beneath him.
"The tower?" his uncle asked Dion. "It's been here a long time. Some people claim it goes back to the third empire of...."
"No, this entire world. How did you locate this particular time circle?"
"Can't give away all my secrets, Dion. If I did, how could I earn any money at all?"
The rest of the trip to the top was very quiet.
The elevator came to a rest in a small vestibule, which blocked the view of its floor. Dion noted most of the tower levels had partitions, which made it difficult to see inside them. He speculated the family who remodeled the original military installation wanted to have some privacy against whoever used the lift. Keeping the service door of the elevator open alerted everyone to their presence. The partitions didn't allow the elevator occupants to see what was happening on the other side.
"Level nineteen," his uncle announced. "The nursey. Here is where we get off." Seth Bach stepped out of the elevator.
"I haven't tried to summon any elementals in this place," Dion said to his uncle. "I don't feel their presence here. Do our elemental manipulation abilities work in this place at all? If they don't, why did you bring me?"
"You can summon elementals from your time circle," his uncle explained, "but I wouldn't do it unless you need to do so. There are limits to what you can do. It takes a long time for the energy level to reestablish itself every time you bring one of them over. So once you summon the earth elementals, for instance, you won't be able to do it again for months. You can call the air or any other elementals right away, but the same limitations apply. You'll need all of them, once the grandmaster returns, to take care of the problems we have. Ah, there is the stairwell upstairs and you'll get a firsthand look."
His uncle strolled past a shelf full of toys and went into the passage. Dion was directly behind him as he climbed the stairs. Dion glanced back at the nursery and noticed everything was covered with a layer of dust.
"Haven't been any births around here in years," he explained. "Those sisters are the last ones and they don't seem interested in breeding. Guess the kingdom will take this place back once they're gone. Too bad, it would make a nice mansion for the right people."
Dion looked down. The tunic they'd given him felt a little bit strange. Perhaps the servants would have his clothes dry by the time they returned to the great hall.
All hell was breaking loose when they walked into the level above them, which Dion learned was dedicated to storage. They walked into a group of men who were desperately trying to reinforce the door on the other end of the room. Four of them held it tight while the rest hammered some more boards in place. From the other side, the sounds of growling and screeches could be heard. The door vibrated from whatever pushed against it.
One of the men turned around and Dion noticed the face of one of a security guard fired by his uncle. He was one of the ones replaced by the fire elementals back in the mall yesterday. It appeared they had a new job in a similar line of work. Plaster shook from the walls as something slammed against the other side of the door.
"Mr. Bach," the man shouted. "We have a problem here. They started to pound this door an hour ago. I don't know what started it. Oh, hello, Dion, what are you doing here?"
"An hour ago?" his uncle stated. "Right when my nephew arrived. Funny how they can find out these things. Oh, well. Do you have all the important things moved down to the ground level?"
"We salvaged what we could," another man said to him. "I think we should reconsider holding this level." The door slammed forward another inch." Dion noticed twenty men in the other side of the room, which was almost bare of any items.
"Then have everyone retreat to the nursey and block the door down to it. I don't want to go back further because they'll have access to the elevator shaft."
"Those beasts are too stupid to know how to use it," one of the other men holding the door yelled.
"Inform me if there are any new developments," his uncle told the man. "We're going back down to the great hall." There was another heavy slam from the other side of the door and one of the men was tossed to the ground from the impact.
"I don't like a fall back," his uncle explained to Dion. "Don't know what else we can do. They can't go anywhere but down. As long as we hold them off until the grandmaster returns, we'll be okay. She left to get something she needed to send them back to the abyss."
"What happens if she can't send them back?" Dion asked his uncle.
"Then we lose the tower and make for the gate that took you into this time circle. I don't want to make a run for it in this weather, but better the storm than those fiends on the other side of that door."
His uncle seemed to be afraid of what lay on the other side, so Dion didn't ask any more questions about them. He didn't say anything else until they were half-way down to the great hall in the lift.
"How long have those former mall guards been keeping the tower safe from what was up in the tower?" Dion asked his uncle.
"About two months," his uncle replied. "After the first month, the Mahen sisters' couldn't field any more tower guards to contain them and everything I tried to send those them back didn't work. Since I needed to get rid of those guards at the mall, I made them an offer to transfer somewhere else at a better pay rate. I tried to locate Karanzen, their former post lieutenant, but he was gone."
"Two months? I was at the mall yesterday when they were let go! What are you talking about?"
"Time runs different in this circle," his uncle explained. "Don't worry about the return; I can put us all back two seconds after you left."
This was the second time he'd heard about the time discrepancy. Was it even true?
The elevator stopped at the bottom of the great hall. Dion and his uncle stepped out of the open door and returned to the long table next to the fireplace. The same group of people was still sitting next to the fire. As Dion sat down next to his parents, he noticed a pair of serving women place bowels down. Dion made a point to thank the lady who set his service out in front of him.
"So did you have any further trouble in the tower?" Kiley Mahen asked Dion's uncle. "You weren't up there very long."
"They're about to break through," he told her. "I ordered the guards to abandon the warehouse and work on the next barricade to the level instead. Most of the important materials were transferred down to the warehouse, so that is no concern.
"If they could break through to the nursey," Susan Mahen spoke, "and then they could get to the next level."
"And so on," commented her sister Loris. All three sisters shook their heads.
"Sometimes I wish I wasn't born the oldest," Kiley spoke. "It's my duty to see this tower is preserved. Without the tower, we won't have a purpose as a family."
"With no heirs," Dion's mother pointed out, "you won't have much of any future."
"We've been over this before," Susan grumbled to her. "All of us have to be married at the same time or there will be arguments over the succession lines. We're young enough. Once we get this matter resolved with Queen Lilith and her horde, we'll return to finding suitable matches."
The window to their right lit with another lighting strike, but they ignored it. "You needed my brother's schemes to increase your endowment," Dion's father mentioned to them. "Right now your fortune is in decline. What happens when your money runs out?"
One of the sisters was about to say something when they heard footsteps approach the table from the stairs. Dion turned and saw a small man carrying a lantern in one hand walk to the table and bow. He looked up and spoke in a soft, muffled voice that was still loud enough to hear.
"Excuse me, ladies," he said to the sisters. "It appears you have some unexpected guests."

Chapter 7

"Please let us know the nature of these guests," Kiley said to him. She leaned back in her chair, but Dion noticed she never took her eyes away from the newcomer, nor did he look away from her.
"A bus has broken down outside in the storm. "There are ten members of a women amateur writing club on their way to Shedreck. They are down stairs removing their rain cloaks. Shall I have them come upstairs?"
"Ten women?" Loris said to her sisters. "This is unexpected. What in the world is a tourist bus doing around these parts? We hardly ever get any traffic through here."
"Writers," Susan rolled her eyes. "Tell them to come up here and join us. Also, have the cooks bring some more bowels. I'm sure they're hungry. They always are."
The man bowed low again and walked back down the stairs. Dion noted he didn't turn his back on the sisters until he reached the stairwell.
"That was Rudy," Kiley explained to him. "He's been a retainer with our family before any of us were born. He almost raised us. Mother and Father were gone on business much of the time and he became the only parental figure we knew."
"He is deaf, in case you didn't notice," Susan, the youngest sister, spoke. She adjusted her green gown and continued to eat the stew.
"You have to make sure he is looking directly at you," Loris added. "Elsewise he can't understand what you say. Rudy reads lips, but can't hear a thing."
"Was he born deaf?" Dion asked her.
"No, his hearing was normal until he was eight. He came down with a fever that lasted for weeks. He survived it, but lost his hearing as a result. This all happened before any of us were born."
"Where are we going to place all these women?" Susan asked her sisters. "We have those creatures on the top level tying to work their way down and now a whole group of women who will need care."
"Send one of the mechanics out in the morning and have them look at the bus," Kiley recommended. "That man Giles can do miracles with his tools. Maybe he'll know how to fix a bus."
"Do you have any motor vehicles here?" Dion asked them.
"Of course not!" Kiley snapped at him, her red lips quivering.
"Not on your life," Susan added.
"Disgusting things," Loris chimed in. "See, even the one they used broke down. A team of horses wouldn't break down if you treat them right."
A noise came up the stairs. It consisted of a group of voices, all female, which merged together in one disharmonious collection. The people who sat at the table turned to look as the women from the bus flooded up the stairs and into the great hall. The woman pointed at the hangings on the wall, commented to each other about them, and marveled at the carvings of gargoyles around the arched ceiling. The seemed to be a mixed bunch, but at least they were dry and not dripping water everywhere.
"The laundry will work overtime tonight," Susan commented. Dion could see she was like her sisters, but still had trouble getting a word in as the youngest.
Rudy the manservant emerged out of the crowd and bowed to the women at the end of the table. He held a piece of paper in his hand.
"Permit me to introduce the Potson Women Writers' Circle," he announced. "The maids have their wet cloaks downstairs and will transfer them to the laundry room. I have the names of them all here; there are at least ten, so I wrote them down in advance."
He looked closely at the paper. "Ladies, please present yourself to the Mistresses of the Tower of Eternal Peace when I call out your names. Let's see first we have Madam Kris Brown, followed by Teresa Wati, and Sondasha Martin." The three women, still laughing about some private joke stepped forward and curtseyed. "Next we have Beth Ravi, Bernice Cosmo, and China Masters." They did the same, although with less formality. "We also have Deborah Khalil, Betty Mook and Mary Tangent. Lastly, I am pleased to present Kristen Malor, who, I believe is the bus driver and organizer of his excursion."
He turned to the crowd. "Ladies, may I present the Mistresses Mahon; Kiley, Loris and Susan." The women at the table stood up, bowed and returned to their seats."
"So we must ask," Kiley said to them, "what brings you to the tower this time of the year. It's the rainy season and most people choose to stay away from this part of the river when the storms begin."
"I thought it would be a good idea for everyone to get out for a weekend," the woman called Kristen Mar explained. "We're bored and not running into much in the way of inspiration. I planned to drive the bus over to see the Ruins of Tarish, but we took a wrong turn at the pass. When we ran into the storm, I decided to make for the tower once I saw the lights in the place. We're grateful for you being here."
"And we're glad we could be here for you," Kiley continued to speak. "I'm hoping the storm dies down by the morning and we can get one of our mechanics to look at your bus. I understand it broke down outside?"
"The very moment we pulled up to the bridge. I looked at the bridge and couldn't make my mind up if I should attempt crossing over it with the bus. The bus made the decision for me when the engine died. I couldn't start it up, so we decided to cross the bridge one at a time."
"Good decision," Kiley commented. "That bridge is old and needs replaced. I don't think it would have held the weight of your bus. Or a large group of people. But you're here and that is all that matters."
"How do you manage to survive out here so far from any settlements?" one of the women asked her. It was the young black woman who was known as Sondasha Martin. She appeared to be still in her teens and was dressed in an expensive jacket and skirt combination that matched the spike heels she wore. "We didn't pass up too many farms on our way to this part of the valley."
"We manage," Kiley responded. "Somehow we pull through every year. Not too many tenant farmers left out here. Most have moved on to the city. This tower once guarded the entire mountain pass, can you believe that? Air power made it redundant and our families leased it from the kingdom a long time ago."
"Did your family put the elevator shaft and plumbing into it?" another woman in the group asked. This was the one known as Beth Ravi, who was a large white woman. Dion felt she had to be a schoolteacher of some kind from the way she carried herself.
"All of the improvements you see here were made by our family," Kiley told her. "This place was stark and barren when our family leased it. It was used by the military for a thousand years or more. Think of it, a thousand years as a military garrison. Not much in the way of accommodations for the troops who had to be ready at any moment to march out and defend the kingdom."
"Is this where the Battle of Blood River was fought?" another one of the women questioned. She was Mary Tangent. With her thick glasses and prim manner of speaking, Dion felt she must be some kind of academic.
"No, that was the river which flows into this one, about fifty miles upstream. This was the tower that defended the troops of Melkor the Obvious from Brandon the Less. You may have read about it in the history books. The battle raged for days until Melkor and his mercenaries retreated back across the mountain pass."
Dion heard some surprised sounds from the crowd. This had to be some important battle, which he wouldn't know about. It didn't matter, as the women seemed to understand what Kiley Mahen talked about. They would be just as confused as he would if he took them to his time circle and tried to talk about the Battle of Bull Run.
More people joined the mob inside the great hall. Dion saw a group of servers move emerge from the stairwell to the warehouse move into the hall. They swerved around the women who'd broken into individual groups discussing what to do next. He noticed the servants wore the same tunics he'd been given once his wet clothes were removed. Although the women from the bus were all wearing gowns, it seemed the basic clothing styles in this world were similar to the ones from the Middle Ages back on his world. There was a strange blend of styles and technology. Some of which he could recognize from his own time period, others which made no sense to him.
This time there were three servants, all men. The oldest one approached the table, bowed just as the others did, and spoke directly to Kiley. "My lady," he said, "we have a problem with the lift. It doesn't seem to be responding as it is supposed to. We have the mechanics working on it right now. In light of the seriousness of our current condition, we felt it advisable to let all of you know."
"Can the lift be used?" Kiley asked him. "As you can see, we are flooded with unexpected guests this evening." She paused when a clap of thunder drowned out the sound before she continued. "How bad off is the lift? Do we need to order parts again?"
"The mechanics feel they can have it fixed in a few hours. In the meantime, no one should use the lift. The last thing anyone would want would be an accident."
"I'd advise to shut it down for the night," Loris told her sister. "Remember what happened ten years ago? They never did find all the body parts when the cable broke."
"Can't do it," Kiley turned and said to her. "We might need it right away if Lilith and her mob break through to more levels."
"We need to inform these women about her," Susan interjected. "If they want to take refuge here for the night, they should know what they've walked into."
"Give me a chance, will you?" Kiley snapped at her. "This is worse than the time we lost half the cattle from the near village."
"Tell them to let us know the moment the lift is operational," Kiley told the servants. "Let them know the lift is crucial to removing the invaders at the top of the tower. We may need it to transfer men and materials to the top."
"And we might need to get them back down in a hurry," added Susan.
"Would you shut-up and let me handle this?" her older sister Kiley snapped at her. Kiley turned to the servants. "Dismissed and keep us updated on the lift." The three men turned and walked back to the staircase, which led down the ground level of the tower.
Dion could see the angry look on Susan's face. This was not the first time her sister had put her in her place.
Susan pushed her unfinished bowl away and left the table. She walked over the stairwell that led to the upper floors.
"Where do you think you're going?" Kiley called after her.
"To my room," she stopped and called back. "You want to be in charge so much, handle it yourself."
"You will have a long walk up there without the lift to take you."
"I'll manage." Susan turned and vanished up the stairwell, her long skirt trailing behind her.
"You really shouldn't be so hard on her," Loris said to Kiley. "She is an adult you know."
"Then she should learn to act like one," Kiley sniped as she lifted her goblet up and took a sip. "Mother and father left me in charge. I make the final decisions."
"You talk like they will return some day."
"It would make my life better if they did."
"But you know that day will never come back," Loris reminded her as she finished the contents of her bowl. "It's been five years since their ship vanished at sea. If they were ever to be found, it would have happened by now."
"No body, no death," Kiley pointed out. "That is the sovereign's law, not mine. We are merely place holders until she rules otherwise."
"I've never recovered," Loris spoke to the empty space in front of her. Dion could see by the look on Kiley's face that this was a speech she'd made many times. "I expect they'll walk in that door any minute and put things to right. I know it might never happen, but I have to believe they'll be back someday."
Dion didn't know what to say, so he remained quiet. It appeared he'd walked into a family argument of some kind, so the best policy was to stay out. Until the creatures at the top of the tower were neutralized, there wasn't much he could do. He was reluctant to use any elemental power to alter the direction of the storm; if what his uncle said was true. He needed to save anything he had for an emergency. Furthermore, there wasn't a thing he could do until the Aether Elemental Grandmaster returned.

Chapter 8

"Where did you say she went?" Dion looked across the table at his uncle.
"Who?"
"The elemental grandmaster. Didn't you say there wasn't much we could do until she returned?"
"I don't know exactly where she went. When Queen Lilith broke through from the abyss all kind of havoc took place in the upper tower before we could contain them. She took off a week ago and said she needed to bring in some more help to prevent them from gaining control of the tower.
"Why can't they just climb down the side of the tower?" Dion asked him. "I take it they can't fly or levitate."
"They're grounded," his uncle responded. "As far as we can tell. She and her troops have a deadly fear of heights, which works in our favor. They are a ruthless bunch and I'm glad we've never had to worry about them climbing out of the tower."
Dion watched as a few more servants came out to bring water to the women in the hall. They were there for the night at least and might as well be made comfortable. Eventually, Kiley Mahen looked over at them and called to the group.
"Why don't you come sit at this table?" she said to them. "It's long and was built for large gatherings. There is plenty of room for everyone. I've even had the cooks warm up the dinner we were eating before you arrived."
The women seemed to find this a good idea and soon they were all seated at the long table near the fireplace. The quiet hall now vibrated with the background chatter of voices and discussions. Dion found himself seated next to one of the women on the bus who was quiet. She continued to stare in wonder at the great hall and took it all in."
"You don't usually see places built like this?" he asked her.
"First time," she told him. "I'm Teresa; this was supposed to be a fun weekend. It was before that storm hit."
"Didn't the weather reports call for it?" Dion asked her. "Oh, I'm Dion, by the way."
"Weather reports?" the woman said to him. "How can you report on the weather? It does what it wants to do and the rest of us just endure."
Dion decided not to pursue this line of conversation either, but it did tell him a bit about the place where he was. Instead, he went in another direction.
"So you like to write?" he asked her. "Any kind of writing in particular?"
"All kinds," she told him, "Just nothing scary. I manage a cemetery, so I stay away from those kinds of books."
"I'm sure your work is important. I'm here waiting for an elemental grandmaster. I can't do much of anything else until she makes an appearance."
"I see. What is her name?"
"Phologostron. Mary Phologostron. It's the name by which I know her, she may have another. We've never formally met, but I was supposed to meet her here." The last statement was true, although Dion didn't know it when he entered the tower entrance back in his world.
"I think we might know her," the woman said to him. She turned to the woman on the other side of the table. "Sondasha, didn't you say that the lady who was supposed to come with us was called Phologostron?"
"I think that was her," she confirmed. "Tall white lady with short hair? I think she runs a travel agency some place."
Now Dion was very interested in the group. Did the grandmaster have some kind of connection to them?
"She was supposed to come with you?" he asked. "Does she belong to your group?"
"No," Teresa told him. "She came by a few times last year. I think she might have family in town.  I don't know too much about her."
Moments later one of the guards shot out of the stairwell, which led to the upper levels, his breathing labored. Dion knew the lift was down, but this man had run all the way from the upper levels. He recognized him as Izzy, one of the guards who'd worked in the mall. He wore shirt and jeans, which already put him at odds with everyone else in this place. Izzy went directly to Dion's uncle and whispered something in his ear. When his uncle nodded, the man turned and ran back in the direction of the stairwell. Dion could hear the pounding of his boots as he ran up them.
"Problems?" Dion aske his uncle.
"Not anymore," he responded. "The opposing force broke into the nursery. I didn't think they would get that far, but the boys have contained them. They've stopped them at the eighteenth level. The creatures were busted up so bad by the time they reached the latest barricade, they couldn't even pound on them. I hope the grandmaster gets back here soon enough; I'm tired of contending with these things. Back home I could call in an airstrike. Not an option in this place."
"I thought they had airpower in this world?" Dion spoke. "Is the storm too much or do the sisters not want to get the government involved."
"More of the latter. You can only do so much with dragons. They tend to burn up everything in their path, but they're cold-blooded and don't like storms."
"Did you say level nineteen?" Loris Mahen asked him from her position on the table.
"Yes, but they're holding it," Seth Back responded. "I hope they've stopped the advance this time. Those things are really messing up my life. Sorry they got in, but we've been through all that."
"Level nineteen is where our parents' kept their rooms," Kiley explained. "We've tried to keep it the same way before they took off on that voyage. If they are ever found, and it's not looking good at this point, I'd hoped they would find their rooms in the same manner when they left."
"Not possible. The guards will need ever table and heavy object they can find to stop the advance."
"I would like to know, Mr. Bach," Loris cut her sister off, "how you expect to recompense us for the damage done by your experiment. You better pray it never leaves this tower because the sovereign will have you on her list if they do get out."
"I've told you," Dion's uncle snapped. "When we get this under control, we'll have a conduit to the abyss and all the money you'll ever need. Nothing else came through the gate, did it? We managed to close it when Lilith and company breeched the perimeter. It won't happen a second time."
"You'd better be right," Kiley grumbled.
"I think I'm going back up to the guard's level," Dion announced as he stood up from the table. "They might need some help up there."
"Are you sure that is as good idea?" his mother asked him.
"I'm not doing anything useful down here," he explained. "Might as well go up there and see what I can accomplish."
"It's a long walk," his uncle told him from the other side of the table. "Stick to the stairwells. Don't linger around the floors. And come back down if anything happens I need to know about."
"I'll be sure to keep you informed," Dion said to him in a dry manner. His uncle was the source of all these problems, yet acted as if he was still in control.
"Elevator's fixed," Susan Mahen announced as she strolled back into the great hall. "Mechanics say it should work just fine. I took it down here and didn't have the least bit of trouble."
"Appears you won't have to walk all those stairs after all," Dion's uncle said to his nephew. He turned to Susan as she sat back down next to her sisters. "Anything happening where you were at?"
"Just a lot of men shouting and making noise," she told him. "Nothing to concern me. I decided to come back here if there was going to be more tension up there." Her older sister Kiley glared at her.
After using the speaking tube to let the lift operator know where he wanted to go, Dion was whisked toward the top of the tower. This time it let him out on a scene of exhausted men who were watching a table nailed over a stairwell entrance. Most of them didn't even turn to look at him. Whatever they were fighting took every bit of energy to contain.
The level he was on was eloquent, but appeared to be a mess. Fine cabinets and benches were busted up to make wood for the barricades. Saws and hammers lay on the floor and splinters were everywhere. It was a scene of an utter mess. The only good thing was there were no noises coming from the other side of the barricade. Whatever forced their retreat had to be just as exhausted as the defenders.
"Weren't you the kid we were supposed to keep out of the mall?" one of the exhausted guards looked up and said to him. "What are you doing in this place? And what happened to your friends?"
"My friends couldn't come with me," Dion said. "This is good because I don't think they would have cared very much for this place. How long have you worked here?"
"I can't remember," the man said to him. "Seems like a few months. The pay is good and things weren't too bad until a few hours ago when those things on the other side started pushing their way through. It's our job to contain them. Right now, I'd give anything for a cheap grenade. It would solve all our problems in a hurry."
Dion talked with the guards for a few minutes just to make sure they were okay. There were a few scuffling sounds on the other side of the barricade, which caused the guards to jump, but not enough to rouse them into action. They were curious what happened to their former post lieutenant, Karanzen. Dion was able to tell them he'd left the mall and didn't know where he went. He didn't tell them the last thing he saw the man do was turn into a swarm of flies.
"Did you get a look at what is on the other side?" Dion asked them, pointing at the barricade.
"All I saw was a whole lot of furry things with claws and sharp teeth," the same guard said to him. "It's all I ever want to see."
"There was some woman in there with them," one of the other guards added.
"A woman?" one of the guards asked, "In there with those things? Are you serious?
"I'm not kidding," he said. "Swear that I saw her back there."
This had to be the "Queen Lilith" figure they were talking about down at table. How she figured into all of it was something Dion didn't understand, but he needed to ask his uncle when he returned to the great hall. His parents seemed clueless when it came to this world, but they'd been snatched into it without any preparation. He still thought of them as his parents and always would, but Dion needed to find out more about his real origins. This fiasco at the tower created more issues than anyone could have anticipated.

Chapter 9

Dion thanked the men for their time and returned to the lift. The operator took him back down to the hall. Dion initially couldn't understand how the operator knew when it reached the right level until he noticed a small switch that was attached to a cord that the lift touched as it made its way past each floor. Every floor where the lift stopped had these and he guessed they were attached to different bells at the lift operator's station. The people in this place didn't like to use electricity if they could avoid it for some reason. Since his uncle's reason for opening a way to the abyss was for the generation of electrical power, Dion guessed electricity was very expensive in this world.
"They've got it under control up there," Dion spoke to his uncle as he sat down across from him. "Doesn't appear to be much activity for now on the other side of the latest barricade. It could all change very soon."
"It will all change very soon," his uncle told him. "The minions are tired. Once they've rested, she'll send them back against my guys again. They don't want to be trapped at the top of the tower and I can't say I blame them."
Dion turned to his parents. "We were talking about my origin," he said to them, "when I first arrived. You just confirmed everything he told me outside the mall yesterday back in Ohio." Dion glared at his uncle who smiled just enough to almost make his blood rage. Almost.
His parents tried to look away, but they couldn't. "You know, this really isn't the best time to bring it up," his mother said as her eyes swept across the women at the table. Many of them were exploring the great hall, but the others were still at the table enjoying the stew brought out to them by the servants. The Mahen sisters were preoccupied with their own conversation in low voices.
"Then let's go up to the next level," he said to his parents. Dion turned to his uncle, "What is over us?"
"Just the kitchen and laundry room," he told Dion. "Both need a lot of water close to the ground. You can't imagine the pressure needed to pump water to the top of this tower."
Dion turned back to his parents. "Then we might as well go upstairs and have a conversation. I don't expect much else will happen unless the invaders break through the barricade up at the top. In which case we'll hear about it before the great hall learns."
His mother shrugged and his father left the table with her. They followed their son up the stairwell into the kitchen without saying a word. In the kitchen area, several cooks were working on dinner for the next day. It was a huge facility with plenty of room.
Dion noticed a table near the stairwell and took his parents to it. This part of the kitchen was quiet and the sound didn't echo off the walls the way it did in the hall beneath them. They sat down at the table and watched the kitchen help go about their business for a few minutes. It was Dion who spoke first.
"So are we going to talk about this?" he said to them. "It's not every day you get to learn the very fact of your existence is a lie."
"The lady who talked with your water nymphs nursemaids," his father brought up an old story Dion remembered from when he was very young. "She was not your real mother. She was the wife of your real father. Your real father is Jupiter Olympus."
"So I am one of the immortals?" Dion asked.
"No," the man whom he always assumed to be his father spoke. "You real mother was human. Jupiter Olympus decided to stray one evening and his real wife found out later. She was furious about his actions. The fact that he had a son by someone other than her drove her to the point of insanity. So she went looking for you."
"How do the two of you figure into all this?" Dion asked. Right now, he was ready to believe just about anything.
"We found your real mother on the side of the road," his mother told him, tears on her face. "We'd always wanted a child. She didn't live very long after you were born. I don't know much about her, I think she was a farm girl somewhere. We decided to keep you and hired a lawyer to make everything appear legitimate. We even invented a relative who didn't exist as your mother."
"Where is my real mother buried?" Dion snapped at her. They could see the anger in his face.
"I'll show you if we get out of this," she said to him. "We took care of that too and planned to show you her grave when you were old enough to understand." She dropped her face in the sleeve of her dress to prevent Dion from seeing her tears.
"When you were six months old," the man he assumed for so long was his father said to him, "we had a visitor. It was a man in a truck. He introduced himself as Hermie Vektor. He claimed Jupiter Olympus was your real father and that everyone on Mt. Olympus knew about his little affair with the farm girl. He gave us some money to help out with your education and told us he would always be close by if we needed anything. He warned us that the wife of you real father vowed to make her husband pay for what he did. Your life would always be in danger. I used to see him drive by every now and then just to make sure you were okay. He would stop in and check on you, but we never had much interaction with him."
"We thought using the water nymphs as nursemaids would be easy and they never gave us any trouble. You liked them and they were perfect to have around the house, in spite of all the men who slowed down whenever they saw them on the street."
"But Jupiter Olympus's wife found out where you were. She was the older woman you saw talking to the water nymph elementals before they attacked you. The man in the truck who rescued you was Hermie. He got in touch with your real father and us right away. He later told us Jupiter Olympus vowed to destroy the entire mountain if his wife ever tried that again. She must have listened as we never had any trouble afterwards."
The two people who raised him were silent and looked at the table. Dion didn't know what to say. He decided to confront his real father later, but, as far as he was concerned, the only people he ever knew as his parents were right in front of him.
He placed his hands on theirs. "I know you wanted to protect me," he told them. "But it is better I know. I'll pay Jupiter Olympus a visit when this is finished. I need to talk to him about the way he treated the woman who gave birth to me. But I want you both to know you are the only people in the world I consider my true parents."
They were quiet for a few minutes until Dion heard his name called from the other end of the kitchen.  He looked up to see one of the women who'd come in with the writers' group standing across from them.
"I'm going up to where the action is," she told Dion. "Did you want to come with me?"
Dion turned to his parents. "Why don't you go back down to the hall?" he said. "I'll go up with her and find out if there is anything I can do to help. I'm getting a little tired of all these trips up and down, so I may be awhile."
"Take care of yourself," his mother said to him as she gave Dion a hug. His father also hugged his son and then vanished down the stairwell with his wife.
"I don't know about you," the woman said to Dion, "but I intend on taking the lift to the top of this thing." Dion joined her in the lift after she'd given the operator instructions through the speaking tube.
"I seem to have trouble recalling your name," Dion said to her. She was a black woman who appeared to be in her twenties. She wore a conservative dress and a big pair of spectacles.
"Kris," she said to him. "Kris Brown. I'm dying to see what's happening up at the top. I've spent most of my life reading about adventure. Now I want to find it for myself."
"Be careful what you wish for," Dion told her. "Do you know what we're up against?"
"The sisters downstairs told us," she explained to him. "Pretty crazy. A whole group of screaming demons trying to chew their way down the tower led by an insane queen."
"I wouldn't go so far to call them demons," Dion commented. "They do have an element of free will in their actions. Why else would Queen Lilith bring them through with her? You don't fight with automatons. The big question is how to send them back."
"Do you think you can do it?" she asked him as they passed another level. "The sisters said it all depends on you."
"Only when the fifth elemental grandmaster appears and authorizes my power," he told her.
"Don't you have the other four?"
"Yes."
"Should be easy. Can't you work something out with that uncle of yours? Doesn't he have the fifth power?"











"Not the same thing. He bought it."
"Oh." She was quiet and watched the next level slide by while they could hear the storm rage outside.
"I hope this tower has a good foundation," she said to him. "That storm is wicked. Too much rain could undermine the supports on this old structure."
"The tower has seen worse storms, I am sure of that."
After the next level slid past, Dion decided to make a little conversation with her. "So how did you get involved with the writers' group? What kind of work do you do?"
"I'm a botanist," she told him. "I study plants. Help things grow, find out why they don't. It's rewarding, but doesn't pay very much. I started reading novels on my spare time and decided I could write just as well as the ones I took off the shelf."
"Anything ready to publish?" Dion asked her.
"Not yet," she responded. "Still have to finish the one I'm working on right now. I keep changing the plot. Eventually, I'll decide what it's supposed to be about this week. So how did you end up here?"
"My uncle. He rigged somethings to ensure I would acquire the powers of the first four elements. Then he made sure I would have to come here to pick up the final one. He claims it was all to stop those things from coming down the tower and affecting my world, but I think there is more to this than what he's telling me."
"So you're not from here?" she asked him. "Another kingdom?"
Dion didn't quite know what to say. Even where he came from the existence of separate time circles was debated. He didn't know what the local beliefs were and didn't need to cause any problems by telling her information that might run counter to her belief system. So he went for the easy way to explain it.
"Oh yes," he told her. "A whole different one. I'm sure you never heard about it."
She opened her mouth to say something when the lift stopped at the highest floor. Dion stepped out before she could say a thing and into the formal eloquent chambers of the masters of the tower.
The level was still quiet. No further sounds came from the stairwell that was secured against the invaders. Most of the guards were relaxing on the floor or propped up against the wall, waiting for the next round. The nodded upon seeing Dion's face, whom they knew from the mall.
"No further activity from up there?" Dion asked them.
"They're being quiet," one of the guards, said to him. "If I was a betting man, I'd put money on them planning something up there. They are determined to get to the bottom of the tower and I don't know how much longer we can hold them."
"Has anyone been hurt?" Kris asked him. She starred at the men who were exhausted on this level.
"A few bruises and cuts," he told her. "Nothing too severe. We were able to secure the top level when it all happened months ago. For the longest time we didn't think they would come any lower and the sisters spent most of their time trying to find a way to send them back. A few hours ago, those things became very active and fought their way down to this level. We've managed to stop them for now.
"Is there any way to see one of those them? Kris asked the guard. "Or is that too risky?"
"We've never had a good look at one," he told her. "When they came through the gate with their leader it was dark and the storm had begun. It's been dark outside since then and the weather never improved.
"Storm began when?" she asked him.
The guard had a look on his face, which Dion interpreted to mean he was trying to remember something. "About two months ago. The rain lets up every now and then, but the clouds haven't broken in that time. I don't know how they manage around here. From what I understand this is not the first time the weather has been so bad."
"Two months is a long time," She commented. "I'm surprised the place has any soil left outside. Must have something to do with the way the mud flows from time to time."
"Let me get this straight," Dion asked the both of them. "Storms lasting two or more months are common around here."
"I wouldn't say common," she told him. "But you do hear about them. As the man said, the rain stops, but the clouds never break. Happens in the rainy season all the time in some places. We decided the bus had driven too far south when we ran into this place. I will admit this is one of the longer ones."
"And we are sick of it," the guard told him. "We get the lighting once or twice a week. Almost lost a man too close to the window during one thunderstorm last month. I don't know how anyone lasts very long around here."
"I'm told the farmers plan their seasons around the rains," She explained. "I guess a person can get used to anything. On the other hand, most of them have moved north."
Dion understood, at last, something about a place where he'd been dropped. The weather was vastly different from the world he'd left. The constant rains accounted for the stony ground he'd ran across to reach the tower. How difficult it must have been to construct this massive tower with the threat of constant storms. He had another thought and turned to Kris.
"Has this area experienced these long storms any time in the past?
"Not this place," she told him, "We're near the mountain pass and the weather patterns are different here than the rest of the valley. I think it was one of the reasons the tower was constructed at this location a thousand years ago. I'm sure if you looked in the records, you might find accounts of storms this bad, but I've never heard of them near the tower."
It appeared his uncle had let more than this Queen Lilith and her Azuroth into this particular time circle. When he opened the gate, the weather was manipulated too. However, Dion was not able to see the air sylphs as he'd done in his home world. He wasn't even sure if they worked the same way.
There was a ringing sound at the tube next to him and the guard went over to listen to it. He waited or awhile, then blew a whistle into it to let the other side know he was ready to send a message back.
"Received and acknowledged," he spoke into the tube. "I'll send down two guards to help. Everything quiet up here."
He whipped around and turned to the former mall security men who were reclining near the barricade to the next level. "We have problems down on the main level. "Seems there are some of these things outside the tower trying to get in. I need two of you to go down and help secure the drawbridge. You and you just volunteered."

Chapter 10

The men groaned and walked over the lift. One of them spoke into the lift tube to let the operator know they were ready to take the descent to the bottom.
"Just a minute!" Dion called to them. He turned to Kris, "I'm going down to help. I suggest you do the same. The lift doesn't move too fast, you can jump off on the way past the great hall if you don't want to ride it to the bottom."
"Yeah," she agreed, "not much going on around here."
They ran to the lift just in time to catch it as the elevator began its descent. Once again, Dion saw the different floors go by as the lift continued on its way down to the warehouse at the bottom of the tower. It was a quiet ride punctuated by the occasional boom of thunder. The passed a floor where two men in blue coveralls worked on a piece of metal. They looked up for a few seconds and returned to what they were doing.
"This storm has lasted the entire time you've been here?" Dion asked one of the guards.
"Pretty much," the man replied. "It slows down, but, like he said, the rains never go away for longer than a few days. This place is crazy; I haven't seen the sun once. The clouds only break at night and you never see the stars for more than a few minutes at a time."
The elevator entered the opening for the great hall, which was taller than most of the doors to the lift chamber. Dion had asked one of the sisters earlier in the day how people kept from falling down the open shaft and was told it had never happened. "You just know better than to get near it if there is no lift in the shaft," she told him with a look of astonishment on her face. "How hard is it to learn that?"
Dion saw one of the other women waiting at the great hall when they began to move past it. Just as Kris stepped off and into the main chamber, the new woman stepped onto the lift.
"It's only another level down," Dion said to her. "You could have met us at the bottom..."
"I know," she said, "but I've been dying to ride one of these things ever since I saw it."
In a few minutes, the lift stopped at the bottom, which was the warehouse level. A small crowd had gathered around the door to the entrance and took turns to look out a peephole cut into the doors. Dion recognized Kylie Mahen, although this time she wore shoes and held a spear in one hand that was much longer than the one she'd held when he entered the tower. She still wore the same black gown.
Around her were several men who appeared to be servants and attendants. One held a bow and the other a club. From the way the man held the club, Dion could tell he'd never used one in a fight. He kept dropping and picking it up off the floor. The other man plucked the bowstring with abandon, something else that clued Dion as to the man's inexperience with it.
"Something happening out there?" Dion asked Kiley.
Twelve of those things outside at the bridge," she told him. "I can't make up my mind if we should send out the men and push them away from the bridge or haul it up."
"I thought they couldn't leave the tower," Dion said to her. "Something about a fear of heights I was told."
"Not the same kind. These have green fur and brought an entire encampment with them. Have a look."
Dion went to the peephole in the odor and stared out into the distance. He could see movement at the edge of the bridge in the storm, but not much. There were small figures out there carrying weapons of their own that were indecisive about what they should do. Dion guessed it had to do with the storm. No one wanted to mount an attack in the middle of this maelstrom. As he watched, a bolt of lightning struck near one of the figures and it jumped back. The others beat a fast retreat to their hovels in the distance.
"How could you see what they looked like?" Dion said to her. "You can't see much of anything out there in this storm."
"There was a break in the rain for thirty seconds and the moon shone through," she told him. "I saw forty of those things in their outside. They were on the bridge when the storm resumed and ran back across. I guess they didn't want the wind to blow them into the moat."
"Did anyone see where they came from?" he asked her. "I don't recall any camp outside when you let me in. There wasn't much of anything out there."
"One of the servants let me know," she told him. "He came down to make the watch and saw them milling around. He called me down while you were upstairs to let me know."
"I'd raise the bridge," he told her. "You have the storm working in your favor right now. With the lighting making things risky, they'll not try to ford the moat. If this storm ever lifts, they might try to make it across, but you're good for now."
"That was my original thought," she responded to him. "I needed to hear it from someone else. She turned to a pair of men standing next to a crank. "All right, bring it up."
The men began to turn the crank a bit at a time and Dion could hear the bridge rise in the storm. He looked out the peephole and saw it begin to rise in the air. There were no movements on the other side of the moat, so he closed the opening and went back upstairs.
"I thought we would see some action down there," the woman from the club who went down with him said as they walked back up the stairwell.
"Not today," Dion returned. "Why, did you really want to have a go at those things...ummm...what was your name again?"
"Bernice," she said, "Bernice Cosmo. I was in the dragon corps."
"So you used those big fire-breathing lizards against ground targets?" he asked her. Dion knew what his idea of a dragon represented, he needed to make sure it was the same on this world.
"Nope," she told him. "I was in the veterinary division. Never got to see one strike a target. I suppose you could consider them big, although I never saw one more than ten feet long. Nothing bigger can stay in the air very long.  Many people think they are huge, but work around them long enough and the size is relative. The smaller ones are trained to make the first strikes. They escape radar detection."
"So you can't ride them...." Dion spoke aloud. His idea of a dragon was much different.
"Of course not," she laughed. "You've been reading too many books. They don't talk either. But they do shoot fire. Takes them awhile to recharge, you only get two or three burns before they have to fly back to base."
"They sound scary enough," he told her.
"Not if you work with them every day. They haven't been used in battle in over a hundred years, but every kingdom keeps them on the ready. You never know. I've read enough history to know what a full-on dragon war is like and I wouldn't want to be around for it. Whole cities burned to the ground in one night. Entire countrysides reduced to ashes. And they will fight each other if not trained right. It was hard enough keeping the females separated. You get several female dragons in a pen together and they'll try to rip each other apart."
Dion continued on until he reached the grand hall level and went back to the table where his parents were sitting once again across from his uncle. There wasn't much else to do right now but wait it out. Dion noticed the servants bringing out blankets and bedding for the couches and chairs in the great hall. Apparently, the Mahen sisters decided it would be a better idea to have all the storm refugees stay downstairs in the hall with both the top and entrance to the tower under siege.
He thought about what the woman who worked with dragons told him. Too bad they couldn't get any of them to take care of the creatures that'd infested the tower. On the other hand, would it be such a good idea to have fire-breathing lizards running all over the tower? It might be stone on the outside, but there was plenty of wood on the inside.
Right now, he didn't feel like interacting with either his parents or his uncle. The Mahen sisters where nowhere to be found. He'd left Kiley Mahen in the bottom warehouse playing little major, but he had no clue as to where the other two went. The servants were bringing in bowls of stew to the women who hadn't had a chance to eat. Most of them sat at the table and continued to discuss whatever they'd been discussing when he walked into the hall.
He saw the young black woman who had come in with the bus occupants standing by the window and watching the storm. She held a drink in a small glass and wore a tight dress and heels. She turned from the window, checked her make-up in the reflection of a mirror and returned to the storm. Dion decided he could do much worse than talking with her, so he walked over to her part of the room.
"I remember you entering with everyone else," he told her. "But I'm terrible with names."
"Sondasha," she told him. "I remember yours. You're Dion, correct?"
"Correct," he affirmed. "Were you on the bus long before it broke down?"
"About a day," she told him. "Kristen drove it most of the way.  She has a license or something. I hope the men who work here can get that bus fixed tomorrow. I need to get back to the city."
Dion decided it wouldn't be a good idea to ask her what city and changed the subject. "It sounds like you have important work to do in the city."
"I'm an actress," she told him. "And a singer. I have a concert coming up in two weeks and I need to get ready for it. I'm told there are some important patrons who are coming to see me and I want to look my best."
"It sounds like a hard way to earn a living," he said to her.
"It's not easy. Plenty of competition out there. But I'm just starting and I hope to get places before much longer. I've always heard success is all a matter of timing, so I want to be ready."
"Did you see anything funny outside when the bus broke down?"
"No, it was dead out there except for the storm."
"Did you want to get something to eat?" one of the women called to her from the table. "There's plenty of food. We've worked out a way to compensate the sisters for their hospitality later. They'll send the bill to the agency."
"Agency?" Dion asked Sondasha.
"The outfit who organized this trip," she explained. "They were supposed to send us to a hotel for the evening. As you can see, we got lost. One of the stipends in the contract is that they will cover any unplanned expense. I think this qualifies. My, that stew smells good; I think I'll have some." She wondered off to the long table, leaving Dion alone by the window.
Dion sighed and decided to go sit with his parents. There still wasn't much else he could do until the elemental grandmaster returned. He wasn't able to get any more information out of the sisters or his uncle and decided he would have to wait to gather any.
The sisters were back at the head of the table. This time they wore the same color scheme, but had jackets on over their shoulders. He noticed Kiley leaning over to her sister Susan in a deep conversation. He couldn't hear what it was about, but the younger woman didn't seem to like the direction the discussion was headed. She continued to frown while her older sister told her what she didn't want to hear.  Dion speculated it had something to do with Susan leaving the room earlier. As before, Loris was in the middle of it all, but tried to stay aloof. This argument might've been going on for years, for all he knew.
The women from the bus seemed to be excited by all the action at the tower. Most of them had led boring lives from what he could tell. This trip was a chance to get out of town and find something to write about. From what he picked up from the side conversations, there was very little actual warfare in this world. The presence of dragons, which were easy to breed although monopolized by the various kingdoms, made it difficult to wage war on a neighbor. The mere threat of a dragon attack was enough to bring negotiators to the table. It didn't matter how many of the lizards each side trained, the other side could still wreak havoc on an enemy with a few of them. These reptiles seemed to be a lot easier to train than their equivalent on earth. Most large reptiles from where he came from couldn't be trained; they regarded any form of warm-blooded animal as an enemy or food.
The groups had known each other a long time and commented on how each other's husbands and or children were getting along. Pictures were pulled from purses and shown to one another. It was no different from a similar gather in from where Dion came.
"I need to get to a phone soon," one of the women said as she ate from her bowl. "This stew is great; I need to find out how you make it." She was a large white woman who wore her hair in a bun. Dion tried to remember her name. It came to him a few minutes later. She was the one called Beth Ravi.
"It helps that we have an endless supply of jackelopes out here," Kiley Mahen spoke to her. "It's why the meat is tender."
"Wild or do you breed them?" the woman named Beth asked her.
"Wild. Too difficult to breed them. Not only do they kick each other but also the males will charge each other with those horns for territory. You have to be very careful if you keep jackelopes for stock and we have never had any luck with them. We use snipes to hunt them in the dry season."
"Not much 'dry' here," Beth replied, as she wiped a spot of grease from her sweater. "And you've had this storm for at least two months? I've never seen one last more than three weeks up north. Of course, we can go the entire dry season and not see a drop of rain."
"The dry season is short down here," Loris Mahen explained. "We need to get up the capitol sometime next year; you'll have to let us know what the best sites to see are."
"I don't know what you like to see, but they did but in a new quezzrdo in the jeweler's district. You might want to check it out."
Dion had the most intense desire to ask her what as "quezzrdo" was, but let it fly. There would be time later to understand the basic differences between this world and his. Right now, he needed to wait and see if the elemental grandmaster would return. He didn't enjoy the thought of leading everyone to that door for which his uncle possessed the key, but if it came to it, he would do it.
"So what kind of things do you enjoy writing about?" Susan Mahen asked her. Dion wondered when she would break her silence.
"Sports," she told her. "I've written several romances about rockball. Do you follow any of the leagues?"
"Not able to follow much of anything out here," Susan responded. "We have enough trouble having magazines delivered."
'Wow, you are isolated. What happens if you have an emergency? How do you get a doctor out here in a hurry if you have to?"
"We haven't had that problem in a long time. Rudy is certified in most areas and can handle the occasional household injury. In a real emergency, we have messenger bats that roost on the top of the tower. Haven't been able to use them in the past few months because of that detestable Queen Lilith and her crew, but we'll breed some more as soon as we get rid of her."
As Dion listened to them chat he began to wonder how effective his elemental manipulation powers were in this time circle. According to his uncle, they were very limited here, but he could summon a few elementals for a limited time period from his own world.
Dion still felt very much alone in this place. Back where he came from he could always watch the elementals at play. Air sylphs he could watch dance in the wind and fire salamanders loved to play in the flames of a burning log. As an elemental manipulator, he could always see them. Up until today, he'd assumed it was due to his family lineage, but now he wasn't so sure. If he was half-Olympian, was it because of that part of his background? He tried not to think about it and returned to his attempts at seeing elementals.
He finally spotted one rolling around on the ground. It wasn't one of the kinds he'd seen on his own world; this elemental had to be particular to this time circle. He watched it spin around the floor and roll up the walls, then down them again. It stopped when the elemental saw him watch it move across the floor. The small black sphere, invisible to everyone but him, rolled back and stopped in front of his place on the table. It spun around three times and zipped under the door to one of the partitions in the grand hall.
It took Dion a few minutes to realize what kind of elemental it was: an aether elemental. He'd never seen one this bold back on his own world; they were extremely hard to see except in a few locations on Earth. They were the rarest of them all, but here they must be quite common.
The aether was the source of all other elements and aether elementals were difficult to utilize. Only a few elemental manipulators at any given time could work with them. His uncle had some limited ability with them, but even he had more than Dion. He needed to be authorized by the Aether Elemental Grandmaster to use them. He turned to see if his uncle had noticed the small elemental, but his eyes were on the Mahen sisters when it entered the room.
If his uncle couldn't focus on the small elemental, then how was it that he could see it? Dion wondered if his uncle truly had any aether elemental power at all. He closed his eyes and decided to see if he could summon anything at all from this world in the aether element. Dion concentrated and felt something near him. He opened his eyes and found the form of a black sphinx looking up from the ground. It was only three feet high and no one else in the room seemed to notice. The sphinx waited for Dion to make it an offer, but he simply told it there would be time later for some real employment. The sphinx sniffed the air, collapsed into another small ball and rolled away.

Chapter 11

"What were you doing there?" It was Bernice again. Dion turned to face the older women who had a keen sense of observation. She was close to the color of the Mahen sisters, but a few shades lighter.
"I was communicating," he told her, not knowing what else to say. Dion had no way to know what the locals thought about elemental manipulation, so he let it be.
"Are you one of those guys who can work with a sphinx?" she asked him. "I haven't met too many. Adepts, I think you're called, right?"
Not knowing how to answer her question, Dion told her 'yes'. He waited for a reaction.
"Never could see the reason for fooling with those things," she told him. "I've had neighbors swear they can guard your house and more, but what kind of natural force comes in so mixed up? Face of a human, wings of a bird, body of a lion. It's as if someone couldn't make up his or her mind what kind of creature to construct. I always said they were built by a committee."
"Now a dragon," she said, "they have character. You always know where you stand with them even if they look at you as food. You feed them on a regular basis, work with them, play with them and they'll look after you. If I were allowed, I would take the one I used to work with home with me. Can't do that because of the regulations. They aren't allowed off the base, even though you bond with them after a while. I was so close with some of the females I cared for they would even let me approach while nesting. Most people would never even consider being near a dragon when it's nesting, too dangerous and a good way to get cremated."
"You sound quite the expert on dragons," Dion laughed. "It sounds like you miss them."
"I do," she continued. "People never liked getting too close to them, but they liked the air shows we put on once a year. It was really something to see a whole pack of dragons flying in formation around the base. They could roast an entire barbecue on the ground. Folks would ask to get their picture taken with them, but we couldn't do that, too risky for anyone to get near a dragon unless they've trained with it."
"Here," she told him, as Bernice pulled out some pictures from her purse. "These are from right before I retired."
She let Dion see the photographs of her standing next to an enormous lizard with wings that almost covered the both of them. The lizard was her military spec dragon, which she trained from the moment it hatched. Bernice went on to tell him the dragons had long lifespans and she personally taught her replacement how to work with the beast.
"She sends me updates every few weeks," she finished. "And the dragon is quite fine."
"So anyway," she changed the subject, "just what is upstairs in this tower that the sister is worried about?"
"I'm not exactly sure myself," Dion told her. He looked across the table and saw the form of his uncle starring off into space.
"Uncle Seth," he asked him. "What is up there in the tower you let in from the abyss? You've talked of Queen Lilith and her Azuroth, but you haven't been too specific about what we're up against.
"She waits at the gate, always trying to get through to any time circle she can find," Seth Bach described. "I don't know where she comes from, or how long she's been there, but anyone working the abyss has to find a way to keep her under control. I thought we had her boxed in, but she found a way to get through when we weren't watching. She managed to bring through some minions called the Azuroth with her and we have both of them to contend with now. At least they're not very powerful, but there are enough of those things to be a nuisance. The aether grandmaster was supposed to find a way to send them back, but she has yet to return."
"What about the ones out at the front of the gate?" Dion asked him. "How did they get out there? Kiley claims they are a different species."
"I have no idea how that batch got through," his uncle said. "I hope the elemental grandmaster gets back soon enough because if she doesn't we will have to deal with both groups without any help. That is not a prospect I look forward to."
"And you have no idea where the grandmaster went?" Dion asked him.
"Not a one. She was here one day, the next she was gone. She said something about needing extra help and that was the last conversation I had with her."
Something didn't seem right about this whole affair to Dion. According to his uncle, everything he'd suffered through over the past year was from the efforts of his uncle to get him to the tower from the other world and return Queen Lilith and her horde back to the abyss. But he wondered how much his uncle was telling him was true. What if he was holding crucial information from him? It was strange that his uncle had worked so hard to keep him away from the elemental grandmasters back in Ohio, yet claimed he needed Dion's help.
What if Queen Lilith was far more dangerous than he allowed everyone to think? It would explain all the obstacles he'd put in his path. His uncle wanted to make sure he had the right fortitude before he put him against the things upstairs and now out in front of the tower. Dion tapped his fingers on the table and thought it all over. He didn't like what it all added up to, but there was nothing he could do about it right now.
Dion's thoughts were interrupted by the sound of men who ran out of the stairwell that led up wards to the next level. There were two of them and he recognized them as the security guards from the mall. They were guarding the tower's upper levels against the invasion. Both of them looked exhausted, which meant they ran all the way down the tower without the elevator. One of them nearly tripped over a chair as he made his way to the great table. He was surprised by so many outsiders in the great hall.
"Word with you, ma'am," the other guard managed to breathe out as he reached the table. He looked direct at Kiley Mahen. His face was flushed and his uniform covered in sweat.
"You look exhausted," she said to the man. Kiley leaned over the table and handed him a glass of wine. "Go ahead and talk, I need to hear."
He drained the cup in one gulp. "Thank you," he said to her. The guard turned to Kiley. "They broke through, but we've been able to stop them."
"How far did they get?" she asked him.
"Right over the sauna," he told them. "They caught us off guard. We finished securing the stairwell from the nursey and they calmed down. We heard some noise up there, but not enough to get excited about. So I had the men stand down and take a break. I thought they might be tired out after that last rush and wouldn't try anything for a few hours."
"I was wrong."
"About fifteen minutes ago, they slammed hard against the door and knocked the barricade loose. I had the men fall back to the level below it. We secured that door, but I knew it wouldn't hold them for long, so I kept falling back, locking doors behind me as I went. We went through the living areas and school floors until we got to the sauna. The door is smaller on that level for some reason, so I had the men use what bits of furniture we grabbed on the way down to secure it the right way. We finished blocking it up the best way we could the very moment we heard some noise in the level over it. They're still trying to get through, but I believe we've held them for the moment. There isn't much else I can do other than get the pikes out and distribute them to the men."
"I don't want to go that far," she told him. "Why didn't you take the elevator down?"
"It all happened so fast, I didn't have a chance to call the operator. Besides, the elevator is at the sauna level. If we use it, the shaft will be open and I don't want to give those things any opening to the inside of the tower. I know they've been scared to climb down the tower on the outside, but they might not be so scarred of it on the inside."
"You did good," Kiley approved. "Take your time about returning to the sauna."
"We have to get back up there. It's important we're there because one man less means that floor has fewer men to secure it."
"I'll go with them," Dion spoke up from his place at table. "They can use help up there. And perhaps I can summon something to assist them if they can't stop the advance."
Kiley Mahen turned to Dion's uncle and gave him a puzzled look. "My nephew can work some of the basic elements," he told her. "I don't think he can send them back without the grandmaster help, but Dion can do some basic work to assist the guards. It sounds as if they could use it. Until the Aether Elemental Grandmaster returns."
"I suppose they can use the help," She responded.
Kiley looked in the direction of Dion's parents. "So long as it's alright with them."
His mother nodded. "I trust Dion to make the right decision," she said to her. "I've done my best to raise him with an understanding of his abilities."
As Dion began to get up from the table, he heard the voice of Bernice Cosmo. "I'll go too. You could use someone up there with a little field experience."
They headed up the stairwell just behind the two guards who'd rested from the trip back downstairs.

Chapter 12

"I don't mind the climb," Dion spoke to her, "It's the time it consumes. We'll spend more time on the stairs then we will fight those creatures."
"Imagine how bad it must have been doing this in armor," she replied. "Think about wearing another sixty-five pounds of chainmail and plate while you're climbing the stairs. Also, you'd have a metal sword in one hand and a matching shield in the other. I think we have it easy."
"Notice the curve of these stairs," she told him as they crossed from one level to another and made for the next stairwell. "There is a slight bend to the right in each one. Can you guess what that might be?"
"They wanted to make it easier to get from one level to the next?" Dion asked her.
"No, they wanted to give the defenders an advantage. The stairwells always curve to the left. Most people are left-handed and it gave them an advantage in swinging a sword. The attackers needed to hit the defenders with an off-handed sword blow, while the defenders' target had a direct line to swing a sword.
Dion almost corrected her as nearly every one he knew was right-handed until it dawned on him that it might not be true in this world.
They continued the climb to the level still under control by the tower's defenders while Bernice rambled on and on about the tower and its history. It figured with prominence in many of the kingdom epics and she recited lines of poetry where the tower was mentioned. Dion admitted it was a quite a construction accomplishment. The tower was built when the techniques were very crude. Most of the blocks were hauled by carts and horses from the nearest quarry, which was twenty-five miles away. Angles were calculated with a square and compass.
Dion and Bernice arrived a few minutes on the sauna level behind the guards. The instant they walked into the room, which was sectioned off like the others, they heard a loud noise at one end. It reminded him of someone pounding on a door. Dion looked down the hall formed by the partitions and saw the guards attempting to hold the door with a pile of broken up furniture and wood.
Whatever was on the other end of that door was not happy. It was a thick door, just as all the other doors inside the tower were. This one still had its military function and was covered in steel studs and held together with metal hinges. It shook constantly as something began to force it loose from the frame. Dion could see plaster fall from the walls from the shock waves created from the impacts. In between the slams to the door, he could hear the snarls and grunts of large animals. Had he not known about what was on the other side of the door? Dion wondered if they were up against a herd of boars.
"It won't hold this time," one of the guards said to the man who acted as sergeant. "And we won't be able to retreat fast enough either. I suggest we break out those pikes." He waved to the wall where a row of spears with ax blades attached sat at the ready.
"If you use those pikes, you better know what you're doing," Bernice yelled at the defenders. "A few of them turned around to see who addressed them.
"Do any of you know how to use them?" she yelled over the sound of the pounding on the door. "If not, you better grab them and run to the next level. I don't know what's behind that door, but it sounds pretty mean."
She walked over to the pikes and picked up a few of them. She grabbed three and turned back to the other men. "Come on, let's go downstairs, I can show you some basic bayonet drills, they work the same!"
A few of the guards picked up the pikes and joined her. The rest tried to shove their weight against the doors, which were under attack by the creatures on the other side.
"Everybody to the next door!" Dion finally yelled. "I'm going to try something, if it doesn't work, take the pikes downstairs and use them if you have to!"
The guards responded to Dion and Bernice's commands. They didn't hesitate to abandon the door. The crew hadn't made much progress anyway, as the doorframe began to crack. They ran to the stairwell that led down and waited. In a few more minutes, the horde would be through it. Dion let them run past him and planted his feet in the middle of the hall, ten feet from the door as it began to break open.
He began to concentrate, to feel his own time circle from where he'd traveled to reach this new world. He felt his mind reach out to the world he called home and make contact with the elementals over there. He searched out what he needed and made the request for them to come and help him. The response was intense and Dion knew he'd reached them.
He opened his eyes and saw the door push open and a furry hand emerge from it. It was full of claws that looked very sharp. Then another furry paw came from behind the door as it pushed open. The furniture and boards holding it in place were pushed backwards by the combined force of whatever was on the other side.
Dion looked to his rear. The guards and Bernice waited to see what he would do. He turned back to the door. It began to open as the boards broke away from it and the furniture barricade moved back.
However, this time there was one significant change in the tableaux in front of him.
The ghoul cleaners were there. They stood at attention in their work uniforms ready to go into action. Dion didn't know how effective the small creatures would be, most were no more than five feet in height. All wore the standard mirror shades to protect their eyes from light. The shopping mall where he'd found them had used the ghouls all over the place, but their home and loyalty was to the element of earth. As the door began to swing open and the first of the furry creatures emerged, Dion realized he had to let the ghouls decide how best to take care of his problem.
"We are under attack by what's on the other side of that door," he told the ghouls. "I need you to prevent them from getting past this level. Also, I need them sent back to the other side of the door and the same door secured against them."
One of the ghouls nodded and turned to the others to make sure they'd received the order. The ghoul cleaners never said anything and Dion couldn't figure out how they communicated to each other. But they had understood the instructions and were ready to carry them out.
As Dion watched, the ghouls tore apart an expensive piece of furniture in front of them. It was a small cabinet the guards hauled down from the upper areas to use as a barricade, but never had the chance to put it in place. In seconds, the twelve ghouls each had a board and turned to face the first one of the Azuroth horde as it ran screaming at them.
The first ghoul hit it hard with a wooden board. As the Azuroth came at it, the ghoul slammed the board directly into the thing's stomach area. Dion assumed it was the stomach area because, although the Azuroth horde ran on two legs and possessed a set of arms to match, they were covered by hair. It reeled back and bumped into the second one of its kind as it also ran out from behind the door. More came out once the door opened up, but the ghouls began to employ the boards as weapons with fiendish effectiveness. The Azuroth were sent sprawling across the hall and none of them made it past the ghouls.
The furry little demons realized they were up against a force determined and one that did not miss when they swung a board. Howling with pain, they began to retreat back to the door under the savage blows of the ghoul cleaners. When the last one was on the other side of the door, the ghouls slammed it shut hard.
Dion watched as the ghouls grabbed the hammer and nails left behind by the fleeing security guards. They formed two teams organized to perfection and began to disassemble every piece of furniture or fitting they could find. The wood was hammered into an intricate pattern designed to keep the door in place with maximum efficiency. Dion watched them finish and secure the door at unbelievable speed.
Fifteen minutes later, they were finished. The door was barricaded by professionals and the Azuroth hordes would reconsider their attempt at storming through to the other side. Dion had no idea what this Queen Lilith creature would do from her end.
The ghoul cleaners lined up for inspection in front of their accomplishment. Dion walked up to the door and looked it over. There was no way it could've been secured in as good and little time by anything else.
Dion walked up to the ghouls. "Dismissed," he said to them and they vanished.
He turned to the guards on the other end. They were speechless until Bernice Cosmo said something.
"Guess we won't have to use these pikes after all."
Bernice and Dion decided to take the elevator down while the guards were deployed back to the sauna and watched the door that the ghouls barricaded. Dion was tired from summoning the ghoul elementals and didn't want to endure the long walk down the stairs to the great hall. He used the speaking tube and had the operator send the elevator for him and Bernice. She didn't feel like a long walk down either.
And she wanted to talk.
"What were those things you summoned?" she asked him. "I thought you manipulated elements, not dwarfs with sunglasses."
"Ghouls," he told her. "The place where I came from used them for cleaners. They're earth elementals."
"Are you going to use them again? I'd like to see them in action one more time."
"Can't," he told her. "According to my uncle I can only use elementals from my time circle once. Then I have to use another elemental. This means I'll only be able to do what you saw three more times until the Aether Elemental Grandmaster appears and authorizes me to manipulate the fifth element."
Dion leaned back on the small elevator, which was on its way down the shaft and looked up. For some reason, he had the strongest sensation someone was up there. The elevator had a little covering over the top. Most of it was open so the shaft could be seen above it
Furthermore, the few boards on top of it were perfect for an adult sphinx to roost.
"Sorry about this, kid," the sphinx said to him as it began to saw away at the rope holding the elevator with its claw, "but once I'm paid to do a job...."

Chapter 13

Dion knew he had to act fast. The sphinx could fly back up the shaft and didn't worry about the cable. The elevator passed the opening for one floor, but he didn't think the next one would come up in time. Dion closed his eyes and concentrated on the air sylphs while Bernice put a hand to her mouth in shock. He found them quick since the connection with the other time circle had opened when he brought the ghoul cleaners over to this one. Now it was much easier to bring over another elemental across.
The sphinx stopped sawing on the rope when it noticed the cheerleader who stood in front of it. It reared back in confusion, as it had never seen a young woman dressed in a skimpy outfit holding a baton before. This allowed the elevator time to stop.  The top of the elevator was exposed to the opening of a floor Dion and Bernice already went past. The elevator halted in place all of a sudden.
"That's right," said the girl wearing red, white and blue to Murph the elevator operator at the ground level. "Don't move it again until I give you the word." His hand was holding the crank for the pulley system, but he'd clicked the brake handle on her command.
The woman held a long bar in the center and aimed it at him. It wasn't the size of the metal bar which concerned Murph; it was the fire burning from each end. The young woman twirled the burning bar to show him that she knew how to use it.
While the sphinx stared at the air sylph who was in form of a cheerleader, it neglected to notice the open door to its back. Nor did it notice the four other air sylph cheerleader elementals behind it in the room where the top part of the elevator had stopped. Likewise, the sphinx didn't notice the elementals that carried large batons meant for spinning. They could bring some serious pain if wielded by someone who knew how to use them.
Such as cheerleaders.
The cheerleader standing in front of the sphinx hit it hard in the middle with her baton, which sent the creature out of the elevator shaft and into level fourteen, the art gallery. The sphinx spun back only to encounter the other cheerleaders who began to hit it with their batons. They showed no mercy.
"Okay," the woman with the flaming baton said to Murph, "take it down one more level and allow them to get off. Wait for him to tell you whether or not he wants to use it the rest of the way."
Murph nodded, unhooked the brake and began to move the elevator down to the next level. When he was certain the car was level with the floor, Murph locked it in place and decided to wait and see what the woman with the metal rod wanted him to do next.
The sphinx went flying through the air and landed in front of the next cheerleader who managed to pin it down with her baton. It struggled to get up, but four other cheerleader elementals were on top of it. Another one materialized with a set of handcuffs and locked the sphinx in place.
When Dion and Bernice ran up the stairwell to the art gallery, they found the air sylphs with the chained sphinx. Dion stopped and took the sight in. The sphinx had tried to kill him and he was in no mood to be sympathetic.
"Don't worry about him," one of the elementals announced as she held on the struggling figure of the sphinx. "We've got a high school he can guard for the next three hundred years."
"Can we go now?" one of the other elementals asked him.
Dion nodded and the cheerleader elementals with their captive sphinx disappeared.
Dion walked over to the speaker tube mounted in the wall next to the elevator shaft and yelled into it. "Murph! Is there anyone down there with you?"
"Was until ten seconds ago," came the response. "Young blond lady with a burning metal bar. She made me stop the elevator. Are you okay?"
"We're fine up here. Don't worry about her, she works for me. Go ahead and take the elevator down to the bottom of the shaft, we're walking down the stairs to get to the great hall."
"You summoned up those women?" Bernice asked him as they walked down the stairwell. "How did you ever learn how to do that?"
"It's a natural ability I had when I was born," Dion told her. "Most people have some ability to work with elementals, I have more than most. But I can't do much with them in this world and the ones I can manipulate need to be brought over from mine. Single use, too, which means I am down to two other elementals."
"Let me know when you need to use them," she mentioned. "I'd love to see that battle again!"

Chapter 14

When the exited the stairwell at the level of the great hall, Dion saw his uncle in a heated exchange with the three sisters who controlled the tower. Kiley Mahen, dressed in her customary black, sat in her high chair and listened to him with boredom. It was plain to everyone in the room that she had endured this before.
"You have to do something about the situation out there and up in the tower," he yelled at her. "Eventually, they will find a way down and inside this tower. When that happens, we'll be trapped in the middle."
"I just found out your nephew had some of his elementals secure the door to the level above the art gallery," she told him between claps of thunder, "I don't think the ones outside want to risk the lighting strikes, so we can afford to wait. Besides, we have no way to know what is out there in all that wind and rain until the storm dies down. Which it doesn't intend to do right away."
Dion sat down next to his parents who never seemed to express much of an opinion. They were quiet people and he could hardly ever recall either of them raising their voices. His mother was on the tall side and sat next to his father, who was an inch or two shorter than his wife. Funny, Dion remembered his father told him once that they were the same height. They wore the same kind of tunics Dion noted the tower retainers wore, but they'd been here over a year and were abducted by his uncle's men. Whatever they wore came from this time circle.
"I think this whole experience is pretty groovy," said the woman who sat next to him. Dion had noticed Bernice wondered off to another group of women when they reached the great hall level.
"Depends on your definition of the term," Dion said to her. "I don't find it very groovy we are caught between two different kinds of demons under the command of some fiend from the abyss."
"It's more adventure than I have back home," she told him. "China. China Masters."
"Dion," he introduced himself. "I'm sorry you had to get caught up in this mess. I can't do much to remedy the situation until the fifth elemental grandmaster returns. No one seems to know where she went, but she's supposed to be back soon. I hope."
"It beats sitting in the tea shop everyday waiting for customers," she told him. Dion noted the woman was light of complexion and had long gray hair tied into a bun.
She also had a tattoo of a star around the back of her neck, which was unique. Dion hadn't noted any tattoos on the women from the bus or the tower. She wore a knitted top, which reminded him of the sweater worn by mountain dwellers in Peru. Dion could only speculate on the chain of events, which brought her to the bus trip.
"Always was a big reader," she told him. "I'm working on several books at the same time, but never can get around to finishing any one of them. I'd hoped this trip would take me somewhere where I hadn't been before and give me some new ideas. At least I've had my share of new experiences."
Dion almost told her that a mad rush from the Azuroth wasn't an experience he would wish on anyone, but kept his mouth shut. Who had brought the sphinx over to attack him? A sphinx was aether elemental and seemed to be native to both time circles.
"We have to consider the worst case scenario," Susan Mahen spoke to her sisters. Dion was a little surprised to hear the youngest sister speak aloud.
"What do you define as a worst-case scenario?" Loris, the middle sister, asked her. "Things are pretty dire right now."
"What happens if the Azuroth break through to this level?" she asked. "We have to get out of the tower if it's compromised. The storm is still in progress outside, but it could lift at any minute. All the thunderclouds have to do is move on and the rain will diminish. When that happens, the other Azuroth at the front gate will pin us inside the tower. If we can't go out, we'll have to attack those creatures in the upper tower. I have no idea how many of them are up there. Do any of you know?"
"I saw ten when the door busted open," Dion spoke from his side of the table. "There could be a lot more behind them. My earth elementals sent them back and fixed the door barricade before the rest could emerge."
Loris turned to Dion. "Can you get those elementals back?" she asked.
"One-time use," he told her. "I just summoned some air sylphs to take out the sphinx in the elevator shaft who tried to kill me. And no I can't use them again either."
"Which leaves fire and water," Kiley Mahen brought up.
"I'd rather not use them until I need their help," Dion pointed out. "Keep those two in reserve for whatever happens until the grandmaster returns."
"What about elementals from this world?" Kiley brought up. "Can you make use of them?"
"I don't feel anything when I try to sense them. If there are elementals here, I can't do a thing with them."
"So how is it you can with the aether element?" Susan asked.
"The aether is the root of all the other elements," Dion explained to her. "The same aether works in this world as in all others. It's why so few people have ever mastered it."
"How are we going to get out of this tower if the guards can't keep those things upstairs from flooding into this level?" Susan changed the subject back to where it was. "Even if we get the drawbridge down, we still need to deal with what is on the other side."
"We have enough bows, arrows and spears to arm the guards and household staff," Kiley pointed out. "I don't know how many of those things are outside, but they should be able to send them back with what we have. We'll have to make a run for it to the gate Dion and his uncle used." She turned to Dion's uncle. "You do have the key which opens it, don't you?"
"Yes I do," he responded. "I have the sigil disc with me which will open the door to my world. I wouldn't think of it as an option since none of us know how to get across these rocky lands to it unless the Azuroth are gone."
Dion stood up and walked over to the collection of women who were milling about at the other end of the great hall. They seemed to be in the middle of a detailed conversation and he wondered what it was. They didn't seem to mind his presence, so he wondered over to the small crowd of women, just out of hearing range, near the big table where everyone else was seated. Another burst of lighting sent flashes through the windows. The storm didn't show any sign of cessation.
The first woman he encountered was a thin woman with a slight Asian appearance. She wore a long jacket of some type, but he had no clue if it represented anything in this world. She was drinking from a glass when Dion approached her.
"You're Betty, aren't you?" he remembered. "Betty Mook?"
"Correct," she acknowledged. "I seem to recall your name as Dion?"
"Also correct. It seems there is big discussion taking place." He was about to say something else when a clap of thunder drowned him out.
"We're trying to figure out which book had the most sales last year," she explained to him. "Some of us think it's Bobbin Herrod's The Wastoids, but I think it's James St. Susan's Mountain of the Soldiers. Have you read either one?"
"Sorry," Dion apologized. "I haven't had much of a chance to read this past year. I was forced to move in with relatives and spent most of the year adjusting. What line of work are you in?"
"I teach women how to defend themselves," she explained. "With all the crime these days, it's important they learn how to do it. I'm certified in three styles and am working on another one. You ever do martial arts?"
"Not yet. It is something I've wanted to try for a long time."
"You should give it the opportunity. Plenty of good schools around and no shortage of qualified instructors. I spent last weekend watching four people learn how to grapple on the ground. You can never tell how those kinds of things will turn out. I was surprised to see the one woman in the group come out on top of them all."
"So have you written anything yourself?" Dion asked her. He needed to make small talk and get some angle on this woman. She didn't seem to be what he'd assumed on the first meeting.
"Just some poetry," she told him. "I don't give readings very well. I need to work on my delivery and my rhyme scheme. Do you fancy any modern poets?"
"I don't know enough of them to make a difference," Dion told her, which was true. He was clueless as the art and literary accomplishments of this time circle. All he could see was the tower, which was impressive enough.
As Dion turned and looked at the women who congregated at the far end of the hall, he began to wonder about them. It was very convenient they showed when they did. They claimed to be tourists on a holiday when their bus broke down in an area plagued by thunderstorms for months. Somehow, their bus managed to miss the Azuroth encampment just outside of the tower. It was too dark and difficult to see anything in this storm beyond the moat, so the bus was not visible. Granted he could summon another one of his two elemental forces that yet remained, but this would be a waste of his resources.
He watched them interact with each other and realized he didn't know much about this group. As a matter of fact, neither did anyone else in the tower. From what he could tell, the tower and its inhabitants were isolated from the rest of the kingdom and didn't know much of what happened in the world outside it. How they managed to survive as long as they had was a mystery to him, but there was the mention of tenant farmers who used to live in the valley and the lands around the tower. The tower was of no military value or it wouldn't have been leased a hundred years ago to the Mahen family.
Did this group of women figure into the plan his uncle had for using the energy from the abyss? His uncle wanted to enrich himself and expand his power base back in his world. Dion looked at them and watched the women continued to talk to each other in the same idyll fashion they'd used since entering the tower. Even Bernice, the one with a military background, didn't seem too worried over what lay outside the moat or over them.
Still, there was the problem of their arrival. Way too much of a coincidence from Dion's point of view. He was certain there was a connection to them and the events it the tower. However, he had no way to prove any of it. Right now, it was merely a sensation, but Dion learned a long time ago to trust those.
If they were connected to the assault on the tower, then what was the connection? Dion hadn't arrived early enough to meet the elemental grandmaster, so he didn't have a means to judge any link between the women and her. There were ten women in this group, he knew. Ten was a powerful number. Many divine beings came in a series of ten. There were all kinds of decimals in the universe. Elementals came in a series of four, so no connection in that aspect. He watched five women in the far end of the hall talk to each other. He had a difficult time believing they were connected to the attack on the tower. Sometime there were coincidences in the universe. Perhaps now was such a time.

Chapter 15

Dion walked back to the table and seated himself between his parents and the three women at the head of the table. His uncle was still across from them and the fire blazed high at the end of the hall. It was a little hard to see how the fire provided warmth for the hall. It wasn't too cold outside, but that fire couldn't possibly supply the heat for the rest of the tower. He didn't know how the seasons worked in this world, but if they were anything like the ones back home, it meant this place would endure freezing weather three months out of the year. Did each level of the tower have its own fireplace? Perhaps they shut down most of the tower during the colder months. The place was drafty enough and Dion could only imagine what it was like when the inhabitants were all military.
The height of the tower made it an excellent watch on anything coming down the mountain pass. By the time any force penetrated into this side of the pass, the tower could see it and launch their own forces. Even if the advance wasn't halted, they could send a messenger to the nearest castle or fortress to let them know the enemy was on the march. Plus, the pass was narrow enough that it wouldn't take too many armored men to halt the advance and plug up the gap.
As he watched one of the tower servants turn the wood and stoke the fire, Dion saw another man in tower livery walk up to Kiley Mahen and hand her a written note. She read it over and tossed the paper in the fire in disgust. Curious as to what it was about, Dion paid close attention to what happened next.
"Tell them to make ready and let us know if anything changes," she told the man. "I'm going to station someone at the speaker tube. We don't need it for the elevator since it's grounded at the bottom of the shaft."
"What was that about?" Loris asked her sister. Even Susan Mahen took an interest in the note.
"The Azuroth have begun to pound on the door again," she told them, while the flames leaped higher not three feet from them. "Dion's elementals sealed it better than any of our people could have done, but they'll get through eventually."
"Do we need to have the servants bring out our body armor?" Susan asked her older sister. "It's downstairs in the warehouse. I had it taken down there when this whole mess began."
"Not yet," Kiley responded. "We wait until they've begun a concerted move down to the main level before we go that route. I want to avoid bloodshed as much as possible. According to the accounts I heard from the guards, Dion's elementals proved those creatures will flee if shown some pain."
"So long as we are the ones who administer the pain," Loris reminded her. "I don't want to be on the receiving end of it."
"We all know what to do if this situation gets out of control," Kiley reminded her.
"Run to the hills?" Susan asked. "Can we make this gate in the rocks that Dion and his uncle claim to have used? There is no guarantee is it will work for us."
"I'm not talking about the three of us," Kiley snapped back. "Our people in this tower can make a run for the gate. You know it's not an option for us. I refer to the prophecy."
"Oh, there she goes again with the prophecy," Loris sighed, as she leaned back in her chair. The glass she held made a loud clunk as it hit the table. "We've all heard it since the day we were born. Do you think it will apply in this situation?"
"I didn't think so at first," Kiley spoke. "But the more I think about it, the more I am convinced it will. Too many coincidences to think otherwise. When the fifth element grandmaster showed, I knew there had to be a connection."
"I never saw her do much with her supposed abilities," Loris said. "If she was so all-powerful, why didn't she get rid of those things when they entered the tower?"
"She tried," Kiley pointed out. "It was because of her that we didn't have things become much worse. Do you not recall she stopped them from leaving the top levels? She summoned those dwellers from the threshold. Queen Lilith and her thugs went into full retreat."
"Why didn't she get rid of them at that moment?" Susan demanded. "Like I said, if she is so awesome, why are they still there? Couldn't she use that thing she summoned to send them back to the abyss?"
"All I know is that she claimed they had too much combined power in this world to open the gate and return them without letting anymore of them inside. I was impressed enough by the stories everyone told me as to how she stopped them in the first place. Plus, she didn't want the Threshold Dweller to stay around very long. Some of the maids still have nightmares over what they saw when she summoned it."
"I wish she would get back soon," Loris stated. "We could use her help. Those things stayed at the top of the tower until this evening for some reason."
"Something she needed to find," Kiley pointed out. "I didn't get a straight answer from her about what it was. But there was something she needed we didn't have that would get rid of Queen Lilith."
"I hope she brings it back," Susan gave her opinion. "Because I am tired of living under siege in our own home. Several times I've been ready to take a pike up there and end our problems the quick way."
"I don't think you'd get very far," Kiley pointed out. "There are quite a few of them up there."
"So how long do you think this siege will last?" a voice said to his left. Dion turned to see one of the bus women he hadn't spoken with sitting next to him. She was a tiny woman, not much taller than five feet with a pair of horn-rim glasses. She spoke in a soft voice, which was hard to hear due to the continuous conversation in the back of the hall.
"Mary Tangent," she said, while offering her hand. "I was bored listening to all the talk about which writer was better than another, so I came over here."
"Dion," he introduced himself again after accepting her hand. These introductions were routine.
"I teach math," she told him. "At the academy in Ynos. It doesn't pay the best, but I like my work, so there is that. Symbolic logic is a hobby of mine."
"If P, then Q?" Dion asked her with a smirk on his face. The fire began to die down so one of the servants worked to keep it burning.
"It begins with that," she laughed at him. "Gets much more complicated later." They were illuminated by a flash of lighting from the window.
"That storm is one of the worst I've ever seen," she told him. "Worse than the one which took out most of the street lights in my hometown. I'd heard for years the weather was crazy up in the hills, guess I had to come here and see it for myself. Now I know it's crazy."
"Do the people in Ynos appreciate the work you do?" Dion asked her. He still knew very little about this world and not enough to make a judgement call.
"They claim my work is valuable," she told him. "But if it had value, why do they make such an effort about money to support the academy? Every time there is a financial crisis, I and my colleges are recruited to get the kingdom out of a mess. They sing our praises later, but in a few years, another issue arises and they need us again. They claim our fees are too high and the budget could not withstand what we might charge. I think they are worried we'd dig a little too deep into their sources of income."
"Furthermore," she continued, "they waste all kinds of funds on absurd educational projects which never show results. In math, results are easy enough to duplicate and resolve once you understand the underlying equations. In these social sciences, not so much. They freely admit their results can't be duplicated, and then wonder why so few of us take them seriously."
"It reminds me of many of the arguments I hear in my own kingdom," Dion told her. "So much money spent on nonsense just to make someone feel good about themselves or to line pockets. I think you will find it everywhere, no matter where you travel. At least I have."
As Mary Tangent continued on about her work in symbolic logic, Dion's mind began to wonder. Not only was the arrival of the women in the bus too much of a coincidence to be taken lightly, so was his uncle's relationship with this Queen Lilith and her horde. According to his uncle, it was a minor issue that Dion was needed to send them back. However, he seemed to have invested a lot of time and energy into this tower project, and the one in their mutual world, for these things just to appear by accident. Did his uncle have some reason he wasn't telling him? Dion wasn't sure, but intended to find out.
"You'll have to excuse me," he said to the math teacher, "but I need to have a conversation with my uncle for a moment." Dion got up from his side of the table and walked around to his uncle's side of the table.
His uncle looked up at Dion. "What do you want, nephew?" he asked with sarcasm. "I am in the same tower as all of us, so don't expect I have any solution to the current predicament."
"Come take a walk with me, uncle," Dion told him. "There are some wall hangings I would like you to tell me about."
Not sure where Dion was headed with his line of conversation, Seth Back left the table with Dion. They walked to another part of the great hall where the sound wouldn't echo as bad. Dion made certain no one was near them when he asked what was on his mind.
"So how much do you know about this Queen Lilith?" he questioned his uncle.
"Only what you have heard," he replied. "She's some being from the abyss that always looks for a way out."
"Really, uncle?" Dion asked again. "It seems to me that it's awful convenient you had a major force from the abyss work its way into this realm while you were opening the gate. Surely someone of your level of skill should know what is on the other side?'
"What are you trying to say Dion?" his uncle snapped at him. Although no one could hear them at this range, he fought to keep his voice down.
"I think it was very fortunate for you, this arrival of a demoness and her horde. Then you had a reason to bring me and my parents to this time circle. You claim I'm needed by the Aether Elemental Grandmaster, but she is nowhere to be found.  Very handy accident on your part, I might ad."
"Spell it out, nephew!"
"I once heard about a factory owner who was heavy in debt to the banks. He also was over-insured. When his factory burned under mysterious circumstances, he collected his check, paid the creditors and sold the business. To this day, people say the secret of his success was lighting a match."
"You draw too many unrelated conclusions!" his uncle unloaded at Dion and stormed back to the table.
"Hit a nerve, did I?" Dion said to himself.
Dion walked back over to the table where he sat down next to his parents. His uncle returned to his place at the same table near the Mahen sisters, who were in another one of their deep discussions. He tried not to pay much attention to what they talked about, as it didn't concern him. Finances. They were in a heated discussion about the monetary state of the family and of the tower. From what Dion could tell, they'd missed several payments to the kingdom on the lease of the tower. Susan let it slide that their parents had never had such problems when they ran the tower's affairs. Kiley fired back that the financial status was in excellent shape, thank you, and anytime she needed to dip into the cash reserves she could do so. However, as the eldest she felt it irresponsible to run the bank account so low when there were plenty of retainers to take care of and a budget to maintain.
"She does have a point," Loris said to her older sister, "we could let some of the people who work here go and we'd have more many to spend."
"I'll not toss the retainers who have stood by us all these years out the door!" Kiley thundered back at her while the lightening lit up the great hall. "Did you forget these are the same people who have taken care of you since the day we were all born?"
"You don' have to make it permanent," Loris replied in a cool voice, "Just send them away for a while. Only until we can get the tower back on its foundation."
"Do you have the sensation they have bickered this way for years?" a voice to his right said to him. Dion turned and expected to see the math instructor.
Instead, he faced an older woman. She was the leader of the group, he seemed to recall. What was her name? Dion thought for a few seconds and remembered. This was Kristen Malar. He didn't have a clue as to what she did, but it had to be important by the way the other women respected her.
"I wouldn't be surprised," he said to her. "Their parents vanished suddenly, leaving all of them to handle the affairs of the tower."
"In my line of work," she said to him while swirling the glass she carried, "you want to minimize arguments between women. It creates a bad reputation for the establishment. Clients see all the negativity and they take their money elsewhere."
"No argument there," Dion responded. "What kind of work do you do?"
She hesitated which told him a lot. "I manage a social exchange club. We supply entertainment to clients for many occasions. Most of our customer base is men."
Dion nodded. She had told him quite a bit.
A few minutes later, Dion saw Susan Mahen get up from the table and walk away. He had no idea where she was headed, nor did he really concern himself with her destination. The tower was vast. She disappeared into the stairwell, which led to the warehouse at the bottom. This was the same place Dion was greeted by Kiley Mahen when he first entered the tower. It still puzzled him why she was the one who greeted him and how she knew he was on the way. It had to do with his uncle, he decided. Uncle Seth had arranged things so he would be greeted by the chatelaine of the tower herself. No minor functionaries for his nephew. He wanted to see Dion impressed.
While Dion puzzled over the reasons for the bus arrival, the women on it, and his uncle's real motivations, he felt a tap on the shoulder. Dion turned to see the chamberlain Rudy with a note in his hand. Rudy handed it to Dion and left the table. Rudy had timed his approach at the right time as Kristen Malar was back in the far side of the hall conversing with the women's writing group. It would be of interest to find out what kind of reading material was popular in this world, as it seemed so much like his own in many ways.
Dion unfolded the note and read the message. "Downstairs in the warehouse," it read. "Immediately. I need to talk to you about something." It was signed by Susan Mahen.
Dion folded the note and stood up from the table. "I need to see about something," he said to his parents. His uncle did not seem to notice what Dion was up to, but it could be a deliberate ruse. "I'll return in a few minutes."
Dion tossed the note into the fireplace as he walked past it, stopping briefly to make sure it burned.
When he departed the stairwell at the bottom level, Dion was greeted by Rudy, who pointed to their right. In the far corner of the warehouse level, he saw Susan Mahen standing idle next to a collection of wooden crates. She made eye contact with him the moment he looked at her.
Dion wondered what this all might be about. He'd felt some interest from Susan the first time they were introduced. If this were the case, he'd have to inform her that he had a fiancée who waited for him on the other side of the gate he'd taken to enter this world. Lilly might not rule over a huge tower, but she other qualities, which would make her a good wife.
"You need to see this," Susan said as Dion walked up to her. She pointed down at the open crates.
Below him, inside the wooden crates, were twelve fully automatic rifles. The other crates, which were pried open, contained ammunition and spare parts for the weapons. Dion bent over and noted the maker of the rifles. It was a German arms manufacturer. He shook his head; only the best for Seth Bach.
"What the hell are these?" Susan demanded. "Rudy found these crates last week when he took inventory.  They weren't here the last time we inventoried this part of the warehouse. I know because we have to keep close records for the tax assessor. He just now opened them up. Does this have something to do with your uncle?"
"Probably," Dion told her. "I can't think of any other reason he'd have them here. Of course, they make the official reason he had for bringing me here absurd. He doesn't need me or the fifth elemental grandmaster to get rid of the Azuroth if he has these." Dion had a thought and turned back to Susan. "Did you just say you don't know what they are?"
"I've never seen a thing like these devices," she told him. "What are they?"
"Are you familiar with guns?" Dion asked her.
"What?"
"Nasty weapons," he told her. "Ones that shoot bullets."
"I know what you're talking about," she snapped at him. "Don't treat me like a fool. Those things were banned hundreds of years ago, ever since the Rutrack Massacre. No one would even consider using one; it's a capital offense in most kingdoms just to own one. Besides, where would you get the compound that makes them work? Didn't they use some kind of flammable powder?"
Dion looked at the rifles and realized what his uncle plans were. He needed Queen Lilith to clear the tower of the inhabitants. Once he had everyone outside, he could distribute the automatic weapons to the guards who used to work for him. The Azuroth wouldn't last five minutes when they opened up with them. He could do the same thing to the ones outside. Of course, there would be witnesses, but they would be outside when the slaughter began. Once he cleaned up the mess, he could bring everyone back inside and repeat the procedure outside. No one who was native to this world had to see the horror he was about to unleash on creatures who fought with their claws and had no protection.
A chill went through Dion when he understood there didn't have to be any witnesses at all. In the end, his uncle would have an unlimited way to enrich himself by supplying cheap power to the sovereigns. He could use this to fund whatever activities he planned back home on their world. It was a ruthless plan and one in his uncle's style.
"Make sure these are always under guard," Dion told Susan. "They are far more deadly than anything you can imagine."
She looked down at the rifles with disgust. "Is it safe to leave them here?" Susan asked.
"For now, yes. They are harmless unless you know how to make them work. If someone tries to use one with no knowledge of it, they could end up killing themselves. So I'd recommend you keep everyone away from them for the time being."
Susan looked the rifles and ammunition over. "These things look scary. I'm not surprised they've been banned. Why would he bring them here?"
"Let's just say that any one of these can kill the entire Azuroth force many times over. I think my uncle brought them across as part of his overall plan. He's using the Azuroth to clean out the tower. Once the tower is under their control, you'll have to allow him to distribute the weapons to the guards he brought with him. Most of the guards were soldiers and know how to use them. They'll eliminate the Azuroth on both sides of the tower faster than you can imagine."
She starred off into space, then returned her attention to Dion. "Don't you find it a little strange the bus full of women writers broke down next to the tower before the second group of Azuroth appeared? They still haven't given me an adequate reason for being in this part of the kingdom. The only decent road runs from the entrance of the pass to our tower. It was built hundreds of years ago to supply the garrison that used the tower. The only reason anyone uses that road is to visit us. We hardly ever see people up in these hills."
"I thought they were too much of a coincidence too," Dion agreed with her. "But I don't get any bad feelings from these women. All of them seem to be transparent as far as their personalities go. However, I'm new to this world. What is your feeling?"
Susan, still wearing her basic red gown, put her hands on her hips and looked at the weapons again. "I don't know what to think. They don't seem to have much in common, which is what you might expect from some tourists. The only thing that unites them is a love of books.  I'm scared to let them near the library, since it's too close to those creatures at the top of the tower. Part of me wonders if they're connected with the government in some fashion. The sovereign has used some creative methods to track down criminals in the past. This is just the sort of thing she would do."
"And still no sign of the fifth element grandmaster," Dion brought up to her. "Even if she was just an excuse my uncle could use to bring my parents and myself here, I wish she'd make an appearance. If nothing else, my uncle would no longer be able to hide his trued intentions from her after we show her this gun cache."
"How do you not know the fifth element grandmaster is working with your uncle?" Susan asked him. Dion could see by the determined look on her face she was serious.
"It's never happened," Dion pointed out. "The elemental grandmasters have to be chosen with care. The other masters have to trust her with their lives. I can't even conceive of a scenario where they'd risk someone who was capable of doing this. It would wreck their positions."
"Too many coincidences," Susan continued. "Too many things that don't add up."

Chapter 16

Dion wanted to agree with her, but he knew so little about how her world functioned. It was time to ask her a few basic questions. It was the only way he would ever find out anything about it.
"This sovereign of yours," he asked, "Does she have a name? I'm sorry I have to ask, but the government functions differently where I come from in the other world."
"Princess Menisha," he was informed by Susan. "Guardian of the faiths, Lady of the Kingdom of Gwensea. She has about fifty official titles, but I doubt you want to hear them all."
"That is quite alright," Dion told her. "How is she chosen?"
"Chosen?" Susan looked at him with a combination of amusement and surprise. "She's the oldest daughter of the previous Sovereign. That is the way it has always worked and always will work. Do you mean to tell me they choose your sovereigns differently where you come from?"
Dion decided not to go into the whole concept of a democratic republic to her. It was an alien concept, he could tell. Better to find out what he needed to know and leave without the creation of a footprint in this world. Perhaps the same thing had taken place in his world's distant past. It would account for many things.
"So the story about trained dragons is true as well?" he added. "Sorry, but they don't have them in the place I call home."
"We don't see too many of them around the tower," she told him. You might see one or two patrolling the skies, but not often. The whole reason our family was able to take a lease out on his tower was the dragons. Any army which tried to attack the kingdom through the mountain pass would be spotted and vulnerable to the dragons in the air."
"I just wanted some confirmation on that one," Dion told her. How could she possibly understand that dragons were mythical beasts in his world? Although larger lizards once existed, no one could ever find one that belched fire."
"I'm going to leave these men here to guard the weapons," Susan announced to him. "If you speak the truth, your uncle intended to use them against us eventually."
Dion didn't tell her his fear that his uncle didn't plan to leave any survivors. It was too much of a speculation. It was also too much of an evil concept for his uncle. But it would eliminate the need to worry about witnesses. If projectile weapons were a capital offense in this world, his uncle was prepared to risk everything by using them. Whatever he planned long-term, it had to be worth the wrath of both governments. Right now, Dion didn't want to speculate on it.
"I need you to come back upstairs with me," Susan told Dion. "We have to confront your uncle and demand an explanation for these weapons."
"My guess is that he'll deny everything," Dion responded. "He might even try and blame me for their being in the warehouse."
Susan ruffled around in her gown and pulled out a piece of paper. "I found this in one of the crates," she said. She handed it to Dion. "Does this mean anything to you?"
The paper was an invoice for three crates of machine parts made out to Seth Bach's company. The delivery address was the mall in Ohio and the shipper was some company in Germany. Dion suspected the German company would turn out to be a fake address or a firm that specialized in discreet customers. The dimensions of the crates matched the ones on the invoices.
"It's an order for three crates of machine parts," Dion told her. "Appears to be the method they used to get them past the customs inspector."
"He'll deny it was sent to him, of course," Susan spoke up. So far, the household servants hadn't moved one bit from the crates.
"Not too easy to do. The shipment address is the shopping mall he owns in our world. Plus, the sizes of the crates match the ones over there. Any investigator would conclude the paperwork was written just to hide the true nature of what he was importing."
Another clap of thunder echoed through the warehouse. Dion looked around it and noticed the entrance to the lion's cage on the far end. The eyes of the big predator stared out at him and he heard the beast make a low growl. Maybe they could release it if Queen Lilith and her minions became more of a threat. The sisters seemed to have it under control. However, a lion was still a wild animal and unpredictable.
"Don't move from these crates," Susan told the servants. "We'll be back. If you are needed upstairs, close them up and push them back to the racks."
"What if we need to use the bathroom?" one of the men asked.
"One at a time. One man can use it while the other keeps these weapons under watch."
Dion and Susan took their time going up the stairs. Dion felt the musty cold and damp air inside the stairwell. It was worse at the bottom of the tower. It must be due to the dampness rising from the flooded-out landscape. He prayed the foundation of the tower would withstand the constant barrage of rain. If this was the first time a storm lasted so long in memory, had one ever been so bad before? This tower was massive, he could think of no equivalent one back in his world. Most of the watchtowers in on Earth were much smaller and built less than five hundred years ago. Most were abandoned when their reason to be there vanished. A watchtower wasn't needed when you had aerial reconnaissance. As it stood by itself, such a tower became target practice for cannons and guided missiles.
They emerged into the great hall to discover her sisters arguing with his uncle. His parents were sitting further away than the last time and pretended not to take part in the conversation.
"It was your idea to open the gate," Kiley pointed out to Seth Bach. "You were the one who appeared out of nowhere and had this fantastic plan which would solve our financial problems. Now we have to figure out what to do about those things in the tower over us. I did not inherit this position just to watch the tower fall into ruin. If the sovereign finds out what happened, she'll have us all removed and the tower placed under her direct control again."
"I swear," his uncle sent back, "that I had no knowledge as what was to happen. They caught me off guard just as everyone else. Had I advance warning what was to happen, I never would've gone through with it."
"I don't know about that, Mr. Bach," Susan said, who had emerged from the shadows with Dion. "I think you may have planned this invasion all along." Her eyes of fire contrasted with the rest of her, an effect that Dion hadn't noticed before.
"That is absurd," Dion's uncle shouted to her as he spun around. "Why would I sabotage my own process? What possible reason could I have for doing such a thing?" Dion's uncle sat straight in the chair he occupied at the table, the picture of righteous indignation.
"Perhaps you can tell, us," she replied. Susan stopped a body length in front of him and towered over the man. "I just found three crates we didn't know about in the first level warehouse. Do I need to tell my sisters what were in those crates?"
"I have no idea what you are talking about!"
"Talk to us," Kiley Mahen demanded. Dion watched her eyes flush red too.
"The servants found three crates the other day which were not on the inventory list of the first level warehouse. They had me come down and look at them when just now when the crates were opened because they wanted one of us to have a look. I didn't recognize what was in them, so I had his nephew brought down to see them. Dion tells me those crates contained projectile weapons, deadly enough to kill everyone in the tower, both human and otherwise. Isn't that right, Dion?"
"More than enough to do it once," Dion agreed. "There is enough ammunition down there to kill everyone in the tower several times over."
Her sisters were livid. "Projectile weapons in our tower?" Kiley gasped.
"If the sovereign ever finds out," Loris managed to speak, "we'll lose everything and be turned out in the streets."
"Only if she doesn't have the three of us executed," Susan added. "It is a capital offense to own one of those things."
"Lock him up!" Kiley Mahen yelled to a few of her people who stood near the table. "Take him down to the spare room next to Draco's pen! I will figure out what to do with Mr. Bach later."
"You have no proof!" Dion's uncle was pleading as three of the tower retainers hauled him down the stairs.
"Dion thinks he planned on using Queen Lilith to clear us out of the tower," Susan Mahen explained to her sisters.
Kiley looked puzzled. "Why would he do that?" The air took a slow chill, as the temperature in the great hall seemed to lessen by a few degrees.
"He would reveal the weapons when the Azuroth were about to break through," Dion explained. "You would have no choice but to allow him to use them against the invaders. He has people in this tower who are experienced with them. I've even heard them complain about their lack of weapons. Once they had their hands on them, the Azuroth, and their queen, would be mowed down faster than grass under a blade. Sure, you would have had to allow him to use deadly and banned weapons to do the job, but all of you would still be alive. You would also be forced to let him have his way with the tower or risk discovery by your sovereign." He didn't mention his fear that all of them could easily be eliminated as witnesses by one burst of those automatic rifles.
"What are we going to do with those weapons?" Loris questioned. "What happens if they are ever discovered here?"
"You can send them back with us," Dion explained to her. "Or bury them some place. I'd recommend sending them back so there is nothing to show they were every here."
"What about the guards who are holding the Azuroth back?" Kiley brought up. "Will they still listen to us if they know their employer is being held in the warehouse?"
"Who says we have to tell them anything?" Susan offered. "Besides, they are busy with the hordes. None of them can run out of here, where would they go in this storm?" Another flash of lighting punctuated her statement.
"What about reopening the gate?" Susan asked. "Can we do that? It might be possible to get the Azuroth back into the abyss if we open up the gated to it. Do we have the means to do it?"
As they talked, Dion turned and looked at the group of women who'd arrived on the bus. All of them were in the far part of the great hall in the middle of several conversations. From what he could hear, it was all about books. They were in danger both within and without. Didn't their situation register to these women? At least a few of them were aware of the threat from the invaders over them. Whey didn't it seem to concern the rest? What was he missing in this picture?
Dion heard a cry next to the open elevator shaft and saw one of the servants listening in to the speaking tube, which projected from the wall near it. He called out an acknowledgement into the tube and ran to the table where the sisters were still trying to figure out what to do about the latest revelation.
"Ma'am's," he began respectfully, although Dion thought this was an odd title to use, "those things have broken down the door to the sauna. They're on the move down to our level." As soon as he finished another clap of thunder rocked the great hall.
"We have to do something now," Kiley said as she leaped up from the table. "Have the men get our armor out of the warehouse and have it brought up here. This is about to get bloody."
"They've stopped them for the time being," the servant explained. "The guard I talked with said the creatures halted at the stairwell to the kitchen. I don't know how they did it, but it's worked for the moment."
"Go up and check on the situation," she instructed him. "I'll have the rest of the men bring out our armor and weapons."
Loris stood up from the table as well and Dion could sense the mood change inside the hall. All three women went from bored aristocrats to responsible guardians of the tower. It hadn't occurred to him they might have martial training as part of their background. It would make sense, as only their particular group of people would have the time to engage in the training needed to use edged weapons. The tower might not have any military value, but the family who leased it was still expected to defend it, and the people under them, whenever they had to do it.
And right now, they were needed.

Chapter 17

"I'll go upstairs with him," Dion volunteered. "I still have two sets of elementals I can use. I'd hate to deploy them right now, but I will if the Azuroth break through again." He didn't think the fire salamanders would have much trouble pushing them back to the top of the tower if he had to use them.
As Dion hurried away from the concerned looks of his parents, he ran after the steward who was headed up the stair well. The man was much older than Dion, definitely in his forties, although age patterns were something else he knew nothing about in this world.
"Right behind you!" Dion called to the man as he followed him up the stairs. "I didn't catch your name."
"Miles," he told him. "You're the one they call Dion?"
"Correct. You've been around this tower for a long time?"
"All my life. It might not be the best job in the world, but the family treated me fairly and the pay is good. I'm worried the sisters are up against something they can't handle."
Dion could hear the air wheeze through the man's mouth. He was a little over-weight and the stairs were hard on them both. It was a good thing they didn't have to up the top of the tower.
They were about to step out on the sixth level, the kitchen, when they heard a clanging sound behind them. Since he had no idea what caused it, Dion started to summon one of the elementals. In this enclosed space, the fire salamanders would not be a good idea. This left the water nymphs, although there might be a problem in using them too. Dion reached out and found the location of the elementals he needed in the other world. Suddenly, the source of the noise became visible to Miles and himself.
It was Kiley Mahen in a full suit of body armor. It had to be her because the armor was coated in black.
She walked past them, a short spear in one hand a small round shield slung from the other arm. Dion noted the shield had a slight curve in it to deflect any weapons used against it. They stopped to allow her the opportunity to walk past in her full metal plate.
"They got me ready just in time," she told them as she lumbered past. "Time to do a little demon hunting. I hope their blood cleans up better than the last bunch did."
The armor was fitted to her and allowed Kiley to move in any direction she wanted without fear of a gap. She had a helm strapped to her head, which rotated inside a bevor. It protected her neck from any thrusts or slashes. Dion didn't see the least bit of chainmail on her. Kiley moved with the armor in place as if it was a second layer of skin. It was obvious to Dion she's spent plenty of time training inside the armor.
They stepped out from behind her to see a scene of complete abandon.
The guards were not as in control of this floor as they had pretended to be. The door on the other side was closed, but the Azuroth on the other side of it were busy. Dion watched as the guards attempted to reinforce the door, with hammers and nails busy pounding more boards in place. Most of the guards were from his uncle's former mall security officers, but there were plenty of men with them attached to the tower.
"Give me a report," Kiley, her voice muffled by the helm. "I need to know what is happening."
They broke through a few minutes ago," one of the guards said. "We heard them start up on the door, but knew it was better prepared by those little men Dion brought in to help. When it started to go, we grabbed what we could and ran down here. We started securing the doors leading down on the levels above us even before they broke through. But I don't know how much longer we can hold them. Is that a real suit of armor?"
"It was the last time I checked," Kiley Mahen responded. "And this is a real sharp spear. What happened to the pikes you were supposed to have on standby?"
"Left them two levels up. When they broke through, we had to make a run for it."
Kiley moved to the center of the room with her shield now in the fist of her left hand. She cocked the spear under her right arm and stood ready at the door. The guards began to move away to give her some clearance.
"I don't see how you're going to take all of them out, ma'am," one of the guards said to her. "Even if you skewer the first one out of the stairwell, they'll be plenty more behind it."
"I start turning them into targets and they'll reconsider coming through," she explained. "Once they see the first few go down, the rest will reconsider."
"What happens if they decide to gang up on you?" another one of the guards asked. By now, all of them were gathered to the stairwell, which led downward. Since the warehouse took up levels one and two and the great hall the next two levels, it means a mad rush to the kitchen and laundry area.
"I doubt they have enough brainpower to consider it," she told them.
Dion watched the lighting from the outside reflect of the black sheen on the armor. Good thing Kiley wasn't outside right now or she would turn into a human lightening rod.
"I think we are about to find out one way or another," Dion commented as the door began to heave open.
Once again, the large door pushed toward them, the hasty barricades breaking under the combined thrusts from the other side. This time the door separated from its hinges and fell forward as it was burst loose from the frame. When it hit the floor, the forms of a packed group of Azuroth were seen from the stairwell entrance.
It was at that moment Dion remembered the tower was built to defend itself against a force from the outside. Not only did Queen Lilith have the high ground, but she and her minions had an advantage in the way the tower was built.
The furry demoniod creatures stopped when they saw the figure in armor that faced them in the middle of the floor. Kiley Mahen thrusted at them with her spear. She wanted to show the creatures she knew how to use it. The stood there and looked at her in confusion until one of them figured out what to do.
One of the furry, clawed Azuroth reached down to the floor and picked up a section of a chair leg. It flung it at her and the section of wood connected with her helm. Kiley wobbled a bit, but managed to keep her ground. She was still a credible threat to her opponents and they knew it.
One of the other Azuroths picked up a chunk of wood from the floor and through it at Kiley. She neatly skewered it with her spear, and then chucked it to the floor. Kiley, her armor shined to a mirror finish, returned to her offensive pose and pointed the spear tip at the mob of furry creatures that faced her. Her opponents seem to hesitate and think about what they were up against.
Dion could feel the tension in the room. The guards didn't seem to know if they should back her up or run down the stairs behind them. There didn't seem to be too many options on what to do at that very minute. So long as Kiley stood there with the spear, none of the demoniods would try to run past her. But this could change at any minute.
They were inside a kitchen. The door to the stairwell which had fallen to the floor, opened to a food preparation area with large table and racks next to it. Dion saw an entire board full of knives they could use if the creatures tried to charge them at once. Right now, they were held back by one woman in armor who wielded a spear and shield.
The next object thrown at her was a pot from the floor. The pot had fallen from the wall while the Azuroth were in the process of breaking down the door. One of the creatures picked it up and sent it at Kiley, who neatly deflected it back at them with her shield.
Dion became concerned when he noticed one of the stoves, which vented to the outside. It still had a fire burning inside it. He couldn't tell from this range what provided the fuel. It might be gas or wood. His main concern was the stove fire could spread if this conflict got out of control. Right now, that was a very real possibility.
The air filled with flying objects as the Azuroth decided no single one of them had the ability to take out the armored figure that faced them. Kiley blocked masonry, pots, wood, ceramic and anything else the demons could hurl in her direction. If not for the armor, she would have been pulverized by the objects they sent across the room. The guards were forced to retreat far back the stairwell as the missiles bounced off everything in the kitchen.
Dion thought she had created a stalemate until a large block slammed into the side of her helmet. Kiley wobbled again, but managed to hold her composure. The demons sent more chunks of stone at her, each one pulled from what came loose from the doorframe. Two more blocks struck her at the same time and she began to go over.
At the same time, a chunk of wood smashed into a lit stove, causing it to burst into flames. The demons stopped when they saw the flames and retreated when the fire began to spread across the floor. In addition to heights, they didn't like fire either.
"We need to get her out of there!" Miles yelled to the right of Dion.
Kiley was down on her knees. She's dropped the small round shield, but stayed erect with the spear as a support. From the other side of the fire, more rocks were tossed at her by the creatures. They might not like the flames, but were determined to take control of the tower. Above the flames, they were doomed, should the fire spread upward. The only way to safety was through the armored woman who carried the spear. It wouldn't take long for them to charge.
Miles lunged out to the figure of Kiley Mahen in the middle of the kitchen floor. Blood was flowing from her helmet down to the armor that protected her shoulders. The only thing that stopped him from running to her side was Dion's hand. He grabbed Miles by the collar and pulled him back to the where they stood.
"Don't!" Dion barked at him. "You'll be killed for sure. The only thing keeping her alive out there is the armor."
The fire began to spill smoke into the kitchen. This level of the tower had some ventilation, but not enough to allow the black smoke to leave the room they were inside. Dion knew there was only one thing he could do, even if it meant using another one of his elemental reserves.
There was a swirling in the room and six of the water nymphs appeared in front of them. They seemed surprised and were still in their swim team tracksuits. Dion saw Cynae from the days before turn to his direction. He could tell she didn't like relocating to a burning tower, but he desperately needed her and the other water nymph elementals help.
"What is it this time?" she sighed to him.
"Protect the woman in the armor," he told her. "Put out the fire. And get those things back up to the stairs. All the way to the top if you can manage it."
"Can we return after that's done or will you need more help?" Cynae asked him, her blond hair shimmering in the light.
"Just do it and go!" he ordered her.
There was a loud concussion as the windows of the kitchen level blew open. Most of the tower windows were small, since a window was a possible target for an arrow launched from the ground when the tower was built a thousand years ago. However, the family who leased it from the kingdom rebuilt the kitchen level to make it function better. This included larger windows near the stoves. The sound Dion heard was the glass blowing inside from a vast wave of water, which appeared inside the tower.
When the windows blew inside, more water, all generated from the storm, flowed into the tower and extinguished the fires. The nymphs had the water under control and used it to push the Azuroth back to the door. Huge waves battered against them as they howled in pain. Kiley Mahen was still on the floor, her armor soaked by the rain that poured into the kitchen level.
This time when Miles ran out to her, Dion didn't stop him. The Azuroth were under assault by one wave of water after another which materialized out of the center of the room. He pulled her back, even though she was protesting all the way.
"I haven't gacked a single one of them!" she yelled. "Let go of me, Miles! As regent of the tower I order you to release me right now."
"As your trusted employee," Miles told her while her armor rang across the floor, "I don't have to listen to you. You can fire me later, but I won't stand here and watch you bleed to death." The blood flowed freely from the inside of her helmet. The Azuroth had struck her with combined force the last time.
Two more guards helped Miles with her when she reached the stairs. They helped him take Kiley down to the great hall. Rudy was down there and had enough medical training to take care of her until they could get Kiley better help.
Dion saw the spear in the middle of the floor and ran to grab it. He didn't have a clue on how to use one, but it would give the Azuroth second thoughts if they tried to get through the waterfalls, which pounded them.
He looked up once the spear was in his hands and saw no signs of the furry creatures. The intense pressure of the water from the nymphs, which had equaled a combination of fire hoses, sent them back up into the tower. For the moment, they were gone.
However, this allowed their queen to emerge from the shadows and into the fray.
She had chalk white skin, black hair and eyes to match. Queen Lilith stood at the doorframe vacated by the Azuroth and filled it. She was a big woman, if woman could be used for her. In each hand was a weapon and she wore a leather scale armor on her body. She looked starved, more of a walking dead person than anything else. Dion knew it was this time circle's approximation of her true form. The real appearance of Queen Lilith could not be shown on in this world without changing the fundamental state of matter, so what he saw was the sum of his, and everyone else's, fear.
He didn't want to use the fire elementals. They were hard to control and could cremate anything in range. He didn't know how she would respond to fire salamanders, but he doubted they alone could stop her. Queen Lilith flexed her arms and starred down at Dion. She didn't say a word because she didn't have to say anything.
A rock from behind him sailed across the room and struck her. Dion turned around and saw one of the guards holding some blocks of masonry. He tried to warn him, but he sent two more stones at her, which struck seconds later.
For a few seconds they appeared to do nothing. The stones bounced away and landed to the sides of the walls of the tower. Queen Lilith smiled, which was terrifying enough. Dion knew something was about to happen.
"Put that down!" Dion yelled as another guard raised a stone. "We don't know if it does anything and you'll just make her mad."
Queen Lilith took one of her weapons she carried, a scythe, and cut a chunk out of what remained of the doorframe. He folded her arms around herself and concentrated.
The next second she increased in size. Dion watched in horror as she grew another six inches. And then he realized something which had he should have known from the beginning.
"Don't throw anything at her!" he yelled to the guards. "It only makes her stronger. She absorbs the energy from any strike and uses it grow bigger."
"What do we do?" one of the other guards asked him, the fear visible in his eyes.
"Get out of here," Dion said as he began to push everyone to the stairs. "Now!"

Chapter 18

Almost a minute later, Dion and all the guards were on the other side of the door to the stairwell. They shut and locked it, although it probably wouldn't slow down what was on the other side. Queen Lilith stood and watched them in their retreat as they managed to get out of the kitchen level. Why did she have to hurry? There was no place else for them to go.
Minutes later, they tumbled into the great hall. The guest room level was still between the great hall and the kitchen, but it wouldn't slow Queen Lilith and her horde down much. The poured into the hall, Dion still holding the spear he'd retrieved.
"What happened?" his mother asked as she ran up to him. "Did you have to summon more elementals?"
"Yes I did," Dion responded, panting from the run down the tower. "I had to use the water nymphs and this means I only have one set of elementals left. Fire. Or at least until the Aether Elemental Grandmaster finally shows up. But what is worse, I saw Queen Lilith up there."
"What's she like?" his mother asked.
Dion described her while the guards tried to recover. He briefly described their encounter with her.
"She absorbs blows," he told his mother. "Every time you try and strike her, it only makes her stronger. I saw her grow six inches just from three rocks that struck her."
"What are you going to do about her?"
"Not much I can do until the grandmaster arrives. We have to wait until then."
"Why would she get taller every time she's struck by something?" his mother asked him.
"She absorbs offensive energy and uses it," Dion explained. "It's one of the signs something comes from the abyss. Normal rules of physics no longer apply to them. They can bend the fundamental matter of the universe around to their own needs. I know it happen before, just not in the last few years."
"I don't recall anything like this ever taking place," his father told him. "Are you talking when we were back in California?"
"One of the nursemaids told me a story," he continued. "This was long before my real father's wife tried to have me killed. But I do remember it well. She told me about a huge battle which raged between an Olympian and a monster. It lasted for thousands of years. The monster couldn't be killed by ordinary weapons. Every time the Olympian tried to destroy the monster, more monsters were created by the blood, which spilled on the ground. The Olympian came up with a way to send it back to the abyss. I can't remember how it got rid of the monster, but that is the story she told me."
"And you think this Queen Lilith works the same way," his father concluded.
"It's the only explanation I have," Dion told him. "We can't mount a full assault on Queen Lilith without her becoming too powerful."
"Unless...." Dion said as he began to fade off in thought. His parents waited to hear what he had to say.
As he tried to figure out a new plan of action, the servants and guards moved the chairs and tables from the great hall to the stairwell to block the entrance. The secured the door again, but it had failed to stop the Azuroth from penetrating lower and there was no guarantee it stop them this time. The storm was still in progress outside, so at least they had it to keep the Azuroth from leaping down the tower and joining forces with the other group outside it.
There was no possibility of communication with the kingdom in this storm. The weather made the messenger bats useless and the tower didn't have the new radio equipment that would have made it possible to contact the nearest city.
"Why did my uncle stockpile the rifles downstairs if he knew they would be of no use against Queen Lilith?" Dion finally left his trance and spoke. "He could've used them at will against the Azuroth or anyone else in the tower, but they would've been useless against her. Firing a fully automatic weapon at Queen Lilith would only y make her stronger than anyone could imagine."
'Maybe he didn't know what she could do," his father suggested. "I could see my brother striking all kinds of deals with creatures who intended to turn on him later."
"He had another use for those guns," Dion concluded. "Once Queen Lilith secured the tower, he could use it as a base of operations. The guns were for the advance guard of his troops. The kingdoms don't use projectile weapons; they would be defenseless against them. Once his base was secure, he had some way to send her and the Azuroth somewhere else and consolidate his rule here."
Dion starred off into space and ignored the chaos around him. "I should have seen this, but I didn't."
Kiley Mahen was recovered to some extent. Rudy removed her helmet the moment she was brought in by the guards and examined the wound. He managed to get a clean bandage over her head and checked her vital signs. After a few minutes, she came around and called for her sisters.
Dion noted her sisters had changed into armor, which matched the color of the clothes she wore. Loris was decked out in golden body armor and Susan had on armor that was green. Their armor looked clean and free from any kind of scratches. This told Dion the armor had seen little use. If it had experience combat, the armor would have borne the signs of repair and resurfacing. The three women were experienced in theoretical combat, but didn't seem to have any actual experience. It didn't surprise him since the tower was remote and hadn't been threatened in hundreds of years.
"We have to get the people out of here," she told her sisters. "That barricade won't hold them very long. None of them has held Queen Lilith back so far. If they start a determined push to get control of the entire tower, we'll be the only thing in their way."
"So far," Susan Mahen spoke up, "we are still in control of the tower."
"Only because we have the bottom levels," Loris pointed out. She seemed to find her armor comfortable and carried an axe in her left hand. "Once they push down here, we'll have to make a run for it."
"Can we get to the bus?" Kiley said to them. "There's not enough room in it for everyone, but it might be able to take people back and forth to the gate while we hold off the Azuroth."
"You forget there are more Azuroth out there," Susan said to her. "You'll have to do something about them."
"They seem afraid of the storm," Kiley brought up. "They retreated because of the lighting strikes."
"What do you think will happen to us if we walk outside dressed in this fashion?" Susan said as she spread her arms wide so everyone could see the plater armor on her. "We'll all be fried if any lightning strikes near us."
"I still have on elemental in reserve I haven't used," Dion called to them from ten yards away. He'd listened to their conversation and decided it was time to let them know. "I'll have the aether power that I can use against them too when the elemental grandmaster arrives as well. But I know they'll respond to fire. Every living thing freezes in terror when faced with it."
The moment after Dion said the words, the barricade assembled by the servants and guards exploded in a shower of wood and splinters. Something very big struck it from the other side and boards flew through the air. The guards working to secure it were tossed back and slid across the wooden floor of the great hall.
The servants ushered the women from the bus down the stairs to the warehouse below. They all went down to the next level without showing any concern. It seemed they'd expected it to happen for some reason.
Kiley and her sisters slapped on their helms and took up their weapons. Even with little combat experience, their parents had made certain they would know what to do when the time came. Susan picked up the iron mace from the floor and leaned it on her shoulder, waiting for what would come next. Her sister Loris did a few practice swipes through the air with the axe and joined the others in formation, as they stood ready against whatever came through the entrance. They formed a reverse triangle with Susan behind her two siblings.
"Let me handle this!" Dion said to them, as he pushed his way out front. He knew there was still one elemental he could summon and it might buy them all the time they needed.
Dion closed his eyes and began to focus. In the world he'd left behind, he found the elemental he needed to bring over to this side. It would only take a few minutes and he knew it was something he could manipulate. It was also the last ability he could use.
The fire salamanders appeared at the entrance to the great hall. This time they didn't have their human form. They appeared in their natural state as living tongues of flame, about six feet in height. Dion watched as the floor began to smoke. He didn't have any options and the salamanders could manifest their powers with minimal damage to the tower if they worked fast enough. The pillars of fire turned around and looked at the young man who'd summoned them. Through the fire, Dion could see the shape of eyes on him and knew they were awaiting his command. He could only give these elementals one order. Once executed, they would return to their former time circle.
"Creatures from the abyss are trying to get at me," he told them. "They are at that door. Stop them and limit the damage to the background."
The wooden barricades fell apart and the Azuroth poured through the opening. They stopped when the flame barriers appeared in front of them. The furry creatures froze in terror as the wall of fire began to advance in their direction. They backed up and jammed into the stairwell, smoke filling the great hall.
The stones around the entrance to the stairwell, which led up to, the next level began to heat up from the salamander's gaze. The Azuroth panicked and trampled over each other as they ran back up the stairs. Some of them fled with burning fur and pushed their way back. The salamanders chased them back upstairs in the form of a whirlwind that sent them screaming in retreat. Dion watched as the fiery cloud blew through a bust window on a level above them and vanished into the sky, a light to the sky in the storm that still raged outside.
"That was amazing," Kiley Mahen gasped as the sounds of the Azuroth horde vanished upstairs. "You scared them good."
"It won't last," Dion told her. "They'll figure out the fire wall is gone and venture back down sooner or later. If they don't want to come down, their leader will make them do it. They'll be back; you can rest assured of it. I'd post sentries at the stairwell."
While they debated what to do next, one of the guards appeared out of the stairwell, which led down to the warehouse, with someone Dion hadn't seen yet. She was an older woman dressed in a formal tunic, similar to the ones worn by the retainers in the tower. The guard had a look of relief on his face when he walked her to the sisters. They still had their helms on and were faced-off against the door.
"She's back!" he announced. "Do you want me to inform the older Mr. Bach? Where did he go?"
"That won't be necessary," Kiley Mahen stated through her helm. She pulled it off as her sisters did the same and placed them on the floor.
"Now that you're here," she said to the new women, "I hope this mess can be cleaned up and we can get on with what we were doing before it started."
Kiley turned to Dion. "I want you to meet someone we've all been waiting for," she said to him. "This is the fifth element grandmaster. You know, the one we were telling you about. The woman who told us you needed to be here so she could authorize your full use of the aether element and get these beasts out of our tower."
"Not just in the tower," the grandmaster told them, "but outside it as well. I had to run through a bunch of them on the other side of your moat. There's a bus out there too. Does it belong to the women I passed by downstairs?"
"Yes it does," Kiley confirmed. "They're a travel group of some kind that showed up a few hours ago. You have no idea what a mess it's been this evening. This young man made an appearance and Queen Lilith went crazy with her followers. Right now, they control everything above this level on the tower. I'm glad you're back and can get rid of them. Did you find the help you were supposed to bring back to the tower?"
"There is no help out there at all," she told her. "I didn't even make it to the larger towns before I turned around and came back. What I saw outside told me all that I needed to understand. This place doesn't function with the four elemental forces like my own time circle. There are elementals here, but they don't line up the same way. And too much energy is wasted when you bring them across."
"I've already found that out," Dion told her. "But what about the fifth element, the aether? Isn't that one the basis of the power of all other elements? Shouldn't you be able to work it on this world?"
"Yes," she told him," it is one you can manipulate on this time circle. But you and I are not of this world. Our powers are still limited here. I can do one thing before I have to leave and that is to grant you full aether elemental powers. Do you accept this responsibility?"
Dion turned and looked at the doorframe around the stairwell where the Azuroth had tried to assault the great hall. Beneath him were a lot of concerned people and some who were very scared. The Mahen sisters looked frightening enough in their armor, but they lacked battle experience. If he didn't accept the responsibility of the fifth element, everyone in this tower could end up dead. Including his parents. They might be his foster parents, but they'd done their best to care for him. He couldn't let them down.
"I accept it," he told her.
"We have to make this quick," she said to him. "Get on your knees and take my hand." As she spoke, they could hear noises of something coming down the stairwell.
Dion went down before her and took her thin hand. He couldn't remember what job she had in the other world, but it wasn't glamorous. None of the elemental grandmasters had careers outside their elemental work that would impress anyone. These were the hands of someone who had pushed keys and held phones for years. Yet, they possessed a strength that few people could understand.
"Do you promise to use the power of the aether for justice?" she asked him.
"I do," Dion responded.
"It's done," she said. "Now get up off the floor, I said we didn't have much time."
Dion stood up and looked down at the wooden floor. He could see the scorch marks where the fire salamander elementals had stood. There was still smoke left in the hall from their appearance. He was able to get them out before they set the entire tower on fire, which was always a problem when fire elementals were used.
He saw the small rolling balls, which indicated the presence of aether elementals. These were the basic form they took, he knew. If he activated them, they would take another. They'd been attracted to him from the beginning, now they were streaming into the room, iron filings to his magnetism. Jane Phologostron, the grandmaster, was right; this place was full of the aether elementals. Too full for him to effectively use them.
"You need to know one more thing," the grandmaster told him. "I have a set of words you will need to activate her."
"Activate what?" Dion asked. This was too cryptic, why couldn't she get to the point?
"Decemius," she explained.
"I can remember those words."
"Those aren't words, it's who you need to summon."
"Could you please explain to me what this is all about?" Dion demanded.
"I wish I had the time," the grandmaster apologized. "But I have to go. Now remember what I'm going to tell you." She grabbed him by the shoulder and whispered something in his ear.
"I can remember the phrase," he said. "What's it for?"
"You'll know. It only works once and you'll need to summon her to get rid of Queen Lilith. The Azuroth aren't the problem, she is."
"Wait a minute," Dion yelled as she started to leave, "I thought the fifth elemental powers would take care of her. Isn't that why my uncle claimed he needed me here?"
"Guess he lied about that too," She told him while vanishing down the stairwell to the lower level. "Sorry, gotta run. See you back in our own time. Hey! Watch the other door!"

Chapter 19

Dion turned his attention from the grandmaster to the other stairwell. It was filled with the furry Azuroth creatures again. This time the Mahen sisters were caught without their helms in place. As the things began to mass for a charge, they strapped the helms on and grabbed their weapons. Everyone else was downstairs.
Dion turned back to the other stairwell, but the grandmaster was gone. It was simply him and the sisters versus whatever was about to come through the stairwell entrance.
Once again, the Azuroth hordes poured through the door, with no fire salamanders to send them into retreat this time. Dion looked at the floor with all the small black spheres rolling around, invisible to everyone in the room except him. He closed his eyes and felt the energy from the aether flow through him and to the elementals. They were excited over their opportunity to be of service.
His order was simple. "Prevent the furry ones from taking control of the tower."
Seconds before the Azuroth made contact with the sisters, the room filled with an equally large horde of winged sphinxes. As Dion suspected, they took the next basic form for their elemental class. Once again, the Azuroth halted their advance as they faced an equal number of large creatures with human faces, bodies of lions and wings of birds. This was not the lethal version of the sphinx, but they still could inflict a lot of damage on the Azuroth.
There had to be at least twenty black sphinxes in the great hall and twice the number of Azuroth. For a few brief seconds both sides were frozen as they faced off at each other. The furry creatures that came with Queen Lilith had some idea of what they confronted. The sphinxes knew exactly what they were up against.
The Mahen sisters, still encased in their body armor, stepped back from the spear point of the attack and moved to one side of the room. It wasn't too hard for them to realize they would be in the way. Dion had stayed in his original position and watched the little black spheres on the ground metamorph into large sphinxes. Each one of the winged creatures where the size of an attack dog, but it was hard to tell them apart. Dion could hear the steady crackling of the fire in the fireplace as a silence descended over the great hall. He doubted a battle of this nature had ever been fought in the tower. It was only a thought because he knew so little about the history of this world. Right now, he would've been satisfied with one of Bernice's dragons for support.
He couldn't see Queen Lilith behind the Azuroth creatures. Dion suspected she would wait until the battle died down before she made her appearance. He had no understanding of how she fitted into what was inside the abyss or why she wanted out so desperately. He did know she had absolute control over the Azuroth and it was all he cared about at the present.
Both sides faced off and didn't move until a clap of thunder broke the stalemate.
Four of the furry demons rushed the initial line of the sphinxes and collided with their opposite numbers on the other side. Two of the winged elementals were sent sprawling across the floor, while two more smacked the Azuroth hard after they ripped through the front lines. One sphinx grabbed an Azuroth and flew up the roof of the great hall, hurling the furry creature down at the front lines of its brethren.
The next thing Dion knew, the entire great hall turned into a massive rumble between furry demoniods and aether elementals. Tables flew through the air and the floor shook from the repeated slams of each side against it. The Azuroth made a roar when they fought, but the sphinxes unleashed a high pitch wail, similar to a cat on the prowl.
The Mahen sisters used their shields to block flying debris as it was hurled across the room. This time Kiley Mahen was ready when part of a table was thrown at her. Susan and Loris used their small shields to check chunks of wood, stone and even Azuroth, as they were sent airborne across the great hall.
Dion tried to back out of the way while two sphinxes grabbed an Azuroth and pulled it through the air. However, he was close to them when they swung their furred adversary in a loop. The Azuroth connected with him and Dion was thrown against the wall. His head connected with one of the blocks and all he could see was a curtain of light.
Susan Mahen saw Dion strike the wall and pushed her way through the massive fight between the sphinxes and Azuroth. She managed to dodge a chair leg as it was propelled through the hall. She reached Dion seconds after he hit the floor. With her shield in one hand, she repelled every interference attempt as she drug Dion across the floor back to the protective cover of her sisters.
"Is he okay?" Loris asked Susan as she brought him over to her side of the great hall. Over them, a wall hanging swung in the air after an Azuroth collided with it.
"He's moving," Susan said as she shoved a sphinx back into the middle of the room with her shield. An Azuroth had knocked it in their direction.
"We need to get him downstairs," Kylie ordered. "He may have hurt his head against the wall. I'll have Rudy take a look at him. Watch my back as I make for the stairwell." It was located ten feet from where they stood.
The three women, while pulling Dion on the ground, made for the stairwell as the fight raged in the great hall. The furnishings were smashed to kindling as the sphinxes would fly down to the floor, grab something and use it as an aerial bomb against the Azuroth ranks. Because of the chaos, neither side paid the sisters and Dion the least bit of attention.
When they reached the stairs, the three women were confronted by the form of Dion's mother, who put her hand to her mouth when she saw the blood flowing from his head.
"Get him downstairs," Kiley ordered her youngest sister. "Help his mother take him down the stairwell. "Well keep the madness from going any lower."
Dion saw it all through a sick haze of pain. His head still vibrated from the collision with the stone blocks on the wall. He felt something sticky flow from his head. All he could see as they took him down the stairs was figures of elementals bashing it out with their furry opponents. He prayed Queen Lilith stayed out of the fray for now, because any violence directed against her would only help the creature from the abyss.
Once down in the warehouse, Rudy quickly checked his vital signs over and bandaged Dion's head. He sat Dion in a chair and waved a hand to check his response. Rudy seemed satisfied for the time being and gave Dion something to drink.
In the far end of the warehouse ground level, Dion could see the ten women with the writing club stand near the lion's gate and comment on the big cat. Draco seemed to like the attention and let them pet his head through the bars. Dion wanted to warn them away, but his own head hurt too much.
He knew the sphinx elementals wouldn't stop fighting the Azuroth until he either gave them the order or the Azuroth quit their attempt to take control of the great hall. He needed to get up there and check on the progress of the fight. If Queen Lilith decided to intervene, the entire tower could collapse. All it would take would be for the sphinxes to concentrate their assault on her; she would absorb the energy from it and begin to grow again. Unless she had some way to regulate the growth, she would eventually cause part of the tower wall to rupture when it could no longer contain her size.
Dion stood up and heard the sound of objects flying across the floor above him. He could hear the sound of glass breaking and both sides howling at each other. He needed to get back up there.
"Dion!" his mother, who stood next to him, yelled. "You need to stay put. We don't know what kind of injury you sustained up there."
"I'm fine, mother," he told her. "My head hurts but I need to get up there and prevent the tower from being destroyed. The entire place could collapse if they keep it up and...do you hear something?"
"I hear that commotion upstairs," she told him.
"No," he replied. "I hear the fight, but I don't hear the storm. Is it over?"
Dion wobbled over to the set of double doors, which protected the entrance to the tower, and opened the peephole. He looked out and saw the stars and, best of all, no rain, thunder, or lighting arcing across the sky. For the first time in months, the storm ceased its assault on the landscape. There had to be a reason for this to happen.
He needed to get everyone outside the tower while they still had the opportunity. Outside the tower, with the moat still between them, they might have a chance to escape the chaos on the inside. He looked at the ground on the other side of the moat and saw the bus the women took to get here. It was huge, big enough to get everyone in it and head for the time circle gate in the rock walls. He turned and looked at the small room where his uncle was locked up. Seth Bach still had the sigil that would unlock the gate and let them all through. It wasn't the best plan he could come up with at the moment, but it was the only one he had.
Dion saw Miles who stood by the stairwell and went up to him. "You have to come with me," he told him. "We need to open up the doors to the tower."
"Why would you want to do that?" Miles asked him. "Aren't we much safer inside here with the storm and all?"
"The storm is over," Dion explained. "This tower could collapse if Queen Lilith tries to attack the sphinxes. She'll become so vast it won't be able to contain her."
Dion saw Susan Mahen, still in her body armor, began to climb the stairs back to help her sisters.
"Can you have your sisters come down here," he told her. "We all need to get out of this place. The tower could collapse on all of us at any minute."
"I thought your elementals had the situation under control up there," she said to him in disbelief.
"They are part of the problem. I need to get them to retreat too, but I'll wait until your sisters are down here."
Susan's helm nodded and she clanged back upstairs, shield in hand.
Dion and Miles went to the cranks which controlled the door and draw bridge. While the women of the writing club looked on with curiosity, they turned the cranks that opened the doors to the tower. It was a slow process, designed to prevent sudden attacks, but there was no way to accelerate it. Once the doors were open, Dion, his head a little more clearly, stepped out into the cool night air and looked at the landscape.
The stars shone over the hills of the valley and the moon illuminated the pass, which the tower protected. He could see the small pavilions and huts the other Azuroth had place on the opposite side of the moat. It was time to get the drawbridge down so they could reach the bus. Hopefully, the tower mechanic could get it to work while he had the sphinx elementals keep the Azuroth at bay.
"Get the draw bridge down!" Dion yelled. "We need to get to the other side of the moat." He watched as the bridge descended to the fill the gap. It was still in poor shape and they would have to leave in groups.
The servants and guards streamed out of the tower as the bridge went down. Dion stood in place and made sure everyone was safely outside. His parents came out with his uncle, a foul look on his face. When the three Mahen sisters were outside the tower, the bridge made its final descent over the moat and rested to close the gap.
It stood there for a few minutes. Dion went over and place one foot on the bridge. It felt solid enough. He looked across the moat at the Azuroth pavilions on the other side. One or two heads emerged from them and starred in his direction. Time to put the next part of his plan into action.
Dion closed his eyes and ordered the elementals to cease the attack. They were to join him outside the tower to defend the tower refugees against the Azuroth on the other side of the moat. As they were aether elementals, he could use them repeatedly.
Dion watched as the sphinxes flew out of the open doors and circled around the tower. Perhaps it would all work out now that everyone was outside the tower. He did a quick head count and made sure everyone he'd seen inside the tower was safely on the outside.
"Is that everyone?" Dion called to Kaylie Mahen, who stood on the edge of the gathering of her servants and retainers.
"They're all here," she yelled back. "We can start to cross at any time."
Which they would have done had the bridge not collapsed and fell into the moat, busting into sections as it hit the spikes on the bottom.
"I hope you have another idea," Kiley Mahen called to Dion. "Because that one won't work."

Chapter 20

The Azuroth on the other side of the moat emerged from their hovels to see what caused the noise. As Dion stood there and watched, they began to fill up the space on the other side. Even if he could find something to bridge the gap between the embankments, they would have to contend with the other clan of furry demoniods. Dion noticed this bunch carried spears, unlike the ones, which accompanied Queen Lilith.
As he stood and tried to come up with another plan, Dion heard a sound from the front of the tower. Both massive wooden doors burst outward and were flung across the moat from the force directed against them. Masonry exploded into the front of the ramp and for a few seconds he worried the tower was at risk of collapse. The ground was still wet from the non-stop storms and the dust from the stone blocks was absorbed onto the ground. Nerveless, Dion could smell the mortar in the air, which was pulverized by the impact from the other side of the doors.
All the tower people backed away from the entrance. The ten women from the writing club did likewise; although they hung back to see what caused the blast. There were no fires or smoke, so it wasn't a chemical explosion that took the doors off the entrance. Dion suspected the cause, but it was what he saw next that confirmed it.
Out of the entrance to the tower, lumbered the form of Queen Lilith. She was sixteen feet in height and had to leave the tower since it could no longer contain her mass. Dion's fears came to life as the huge woman walked down the ramp and looked around, followed by her own horde of Azuroth, who looked up to their leader with a sense of fear and wonder. The flying sphinxes swooped lower and swept around the creature from the abyss, not sure what to do.
And then it all made sense.
Dion looked at the group of women writers who faced the enormous woman and it occurred to him that the Aether Elemental Grandmaster told him he needed to summon "Decemius". Wasn't "Decem" the Latin word for "ten"? Ten women who had appeared out of nowhere in the storm. It was so obvious! This entire trip to the tower was part of a plan, even though he couldn't figure it out. Even the Draco the pet lion allowed them to stroke its mane.
Dion faced the ten women, who were in a circle next to the huge form of Queen Lilith, and said the words the elemental grandmaster had whispered to him. Then he stood back and watched. It shouldn't take long.
The ten women began to shimmer in the darkness, illuminated by the moonlight. He was right; the words were a code to activate the only thing that could stop Queen Lilith. The shimmering changed to a ring of light, which spun around them as they stayed in place. Even the lion was included in the spinning light. As he stayed in place and watched the light condense, Dion was forced to turn away because of the brilliance. Then the light faded and he turned to see what remained.
Now there were two giants in front of the tower.
The new giant was also female and wore a set of plate armor on her. Dion looked to the crowd revering what was in front of them. The three Mahen sisters, still in their armor, were carrying their weapons, but they realized it wouldn't have any effect on the two huge creatures before them. The crowd began to move back, more for safety than to give the giants some room. Even the Azuroth on the other side of the moat began to back up.
I've been waiting for you, Lilith, the new giant said to her opposite number. Dion didn't hear the challenge in the usual way, but felt it through his very soul. What she thought was transmitted to everyone. He could see the same reaction on everyone's face.
You think you can take me? Dion heard Queen Lilith send back to the new giant. Why don't you try?
Dion inched his way over the assembled crowd who watched the giants face off. He needed to be with them, just in case they needed his help. It was a simple order he gave to the flying aether elementals, which circled the two enormous figures. Dion told them not to get involved in what was about to take place, but to protect the residents of the tower from any injury. The sphinxes flew away from the giants and swept down in front of the crowd. They were now a defensive barrier in front of the crowd against what was about to take place. Dino prayed the two didn't cause the tower to topple over.
He made his way through the horde of Azuroth who were too amazed by what their queen had transformed into to pay attention to him. He could see the countless wounds from the damage the sphinxes had inflicted on them, but they didn't seem to care about the injuries. They continued to stare up at the two huge women who were faced off at each other.
"What the hell is that?" Kiley Mahen said to him as Dion slid up to her.
Both giant figures began to move into position against each other. Although they were enormous, neither one of them were of mythic proportions. It was just possible a creature of humanoid status could grow to be sixteen feet high. And, as Dion noted from the way they moved, they would not function the same way a normal person might. Both of them were slow. If they were playing by the physical rules of this world, the reaction time of each would be much slower since the nerve impulses would take longer to reach their destination.
Dion once saw an elephant move slowly through a pen at the zoo and understood why it needed so much time to move. The elephant was huge and the cube- square rule applied to it. When the size of an organism doubled, its volume tripled. Therefore, the giants might be twice the size as the largest normal human, but their overall mass was nine times as much. This meant more power had to go into moving around than the most obese person on earth had ever contended with. However, they were built for the task.
The tower was constructed on an island. The moat, which surrounded it, only went so far as the river and was supplied by it during the wet season. In the dry ones, the water in the moat had to be pumped from the river. The island was rock and on a higher level than the surrounding landscape, but it occupied only enough land to place the tower and some out buildings. The giants didn't have much room to fight.
There was a loud retort as Decemius clashed with the huge form of Queen Lilith. The other giant nearly went down in the river as her opponent collided with her. Instead, she grabbed her attacker and pushed her down to the bank. Decemius angled her body and returned the pull, which sent Lilith into the river water. A ten-foot wave rose up from the river when she struck it.
"Did you know this would happen?" Kiley asked her as the two of them watched the battle rage.
"I didn't have a clue," Dion told her. "I was here to rescue my parents, free the elemental grandmaster and obtain the fifth elemental power. But not in that order. Or something. The grandmaster gave me some words to use, but didn't tell me what they were specifically for. She told me they were to activate 'Decemius', but I didn't figure it out until Queen Lilith burst through the doors and I saw the ten women from the writing group standing in a circle."
"Where is Draco?" she asked him. By now, Kiley had removed her helmet, as she wanted to see as much of this fight as she could.
"I think he was sucked into it too. Something to do with the right combination of forces creating an opponent to the abyss."
"What kind of outcome?" Susan Mahen asked him. "And how did the queen get so big so fast?"
"Energy absorption, like I said earlier," Dion replied. "Whatever you through at her, she absorbs it and uses the energy to gain mass." He watched the two giants struggling in the water. "But an attack from Decemius doesn't seem to affect her. I guess that's the point in her activation."
"So this was all planned from the beginning," Loris said as she removed her helm. "Your uncle was manipulated into bringing her across the gate. He thought he could use her to control the tower. We thought we could use your uncle to fill up our depleted bank account. Now, both of us were used. The only question remaining is, 'who used us?'"
Dion turned and saw his uncle standing by himself. He didn't appear to be interested in the outcome of the fight between the two giants. Why should he be? No matter how it went, his uncle would end up losing everything he'd invested in this venture. The only way he could possibly escape with minimal losses would be to use the sigil he possessed and escape across the gate in the rocks.
Dion realized his uncle was starring across the muddy plains. He looked directly at the rock wall where the door opened to admit Dion to this world. Which meant only one thing; he wanted to figure out a way to get back to the world where they came from. Right now.
Dion walked up to his uncle and starred at him until he turned around. "Don't you even think about it," Dion warned him and walked away.
Both figures were collapsed in the river. Dion couldn't tell who had the advantage. The river wasn't that deep, but it was little more than a creek to the both of them. He couldn't tell if it was swollen from the constant storm, but the water was over the banks from what he could tell. It didn't matter how deep the water might be, it was still possible to drown in it if you went down. From what he could tell, this was the ultimate plan for both sides.
He turned and saw something, which gave him a little hope. The giants collapsed the moat in their fight just enough to create a ramp over it. They had engaged each other close enough to the crumbled drawbridge and sent down a cascade of rock and soil. Most of it was mud, but enough was down there to make the passage over the moat less of a problem.
He turned just in time to see Decemius push her opponent down into the river in a magnified wrestling move. She slammed Queen Lilith down into the water and held her there. Her opponent began thrashing around, but was held underwater by the other giant. Dion couldn't bear to watch it and turned away. But the time he'd turned back, Decemius was standing in the river watching the form of Queen Lilith float down the river. She began to shrink in size as her body was carried away by the currents.
Decemius stopped and watched her float away. Dion stood and watched the remaining giant slowly move through the river water and emerge on the shore. She was easier to see now in the moonlight and turned her face to him. The visage was indescribable and Dion felt a chill go through him. Whatever this creature was, she had no relation to the ten women who compromised her. They had merged to create something very deadly. The only relief he felt was in the knowledge the giant had served her purpose and was no longer needed.
Decemius towered on the shore and leaned back, her matted hair sticking to the body armor she wore. The Azuroth on the other side of the moat began to pack up their pavilions. This was something they'd done many times before, Dion could tell by the level of organization they displayed. The furry creatures were soon moving in a single column away from the tower. Minutes later, the horde of Queen Lilith joined them as they swarmed over the muddy dirt bridge created by the fight between the two giants. Dion stood in place and watched them move away though the mountain pass. He speculated on the relationship between the two different forms of Azuroth, but it didn't seem to matter any longer. Both groups were defeated and were soon gone from visual range.
Satisfied, Decemius began to break down into her component parts. Dion watched as the light around her arose from the ground, blinding him once again. He covered his eyes with his hand until the light faded. When he lifted his hand, the giant was gone.
She was replaced by the form of the ten women from the writers' club. They seemed a little dazed, but not much different than the women who entered the tower earlier it the night. What time was it? Dion looked across the horizon to see the first rays of sunlight. According to the people in the tower, this was the first daybreak in months.
Kristen Malar, holding Draco the lion on a leash, walked up to Dion and shook his hand. "Thank you," she told him. "We didn't know what word would be used this time or who would give it. You provided the trigger."
"How long has this operation been planned?" he asked her. "I don't like to assume things, but I get the feeling you're not really a writer's club."
"I can't imagine where you would get that idea," she laughed. "We work for the sovereign. We're a ten-woman unit she sends out to deal with threats to the kingdom. The whole operation was planned out the moment we learned your uncle had let something into this world from the abyss. It took a long time to figure out what it was that he'd let inside the tower. You were not expected, so we contacted the elemental grandmaster when we learned you'd came through. She provided you with the control words needed to activate the unit and you saw the rest."
"The lion? You needed a lion too?"
"Not always, but it helps to have one when needed. Today it made all the difference."
The rest of the tower inhabitants came over to make sure the ten women were alright. They too watched the giant transformation, but they didn't seem as aghast at what happened as Dion. He'd just watched two giants fight it out in the middle of a river. This world was much different than he expected.
"You created the storm too?" he asked her.
"No, that was a by-product of Queen Lilith," she told him. "When she began to engorge herself on the energy around here, the storm and lightning was the first source for her. It's the problem with these abyss creatures. They thrive on the energy of any world they enter. You can't let them inside for very long."
"What about my parents and uncle?" he asked her. His uncle Seth still looked at the ground and scowled.
"You all need to leave as soon as you can," she continued. "Take the door back; it will be sealed on the other side. No one from your time circle will ever be allowed back inside this one. Too much damage took place. Those men he brought over, the guards have to leave as well."
"And the sisters? They were involved in this too." He turned and saw them standing with the guards and their retainers.
"They fought well when the need arose. Still, they knew it was illegal to manipulate abyss forces because of what you just saw. And they tried to conceal what took place when everything went wrong. If we hadn't been informed by someone in the tower, it might've been too late before the sovereign could do anything."
Dion had the sphinxes finish the earthen bridge across the moat. It wasn't very long before they had one assembled and everyone who needed to leave was able to cross it. Finished with his elementals, he returned them to their natural form. The last he saw of them were small black spheres rolling across the landscape. Of course, no one else could see them.
Kiley Mahen, still in armor, traveled with the small crowd who were headed back to the door in the rock walls. Bernice from the ten women unit traveled with them too. Bernice held the key that would open the gate to their home world. It turned out the one Uncle Seth held turned to dust the moment Queen Lilith was defeated.
"It could have worked," Seth Back finally spoke up as they watched Bernice attach the sigil disc to the rock facing. "I was close. You still need cheap electricity in this place."
"If it means cutting deals with fiends like Queen Lilith," Bernice responded, "then no thank you very much."
Bernice took out the sigil on the small disc and placed it on the rock wall where Dion emerged the evening before. She removed her hand from it and the disc stayed in place. Once again, it stayed attached to any surface it touched. The disc began to spin again until it was a blur. Once more, it rotated backwards and forwards until it found the right combination for the door.
They watched as the outline formed and the rock turned into the shape of a wooden door. The image coalesced and it became a solid wooden door mounted into the rock on an elaborate frame.
"I wish we could have met years ago," Kiley said to Dion as she gave him a hug. "Thank you for ridding the tower of those things."
"I'm sure we'll meet again someday," Dion said to her. "Fate has a funny way of running in cycles..." He turned and looked at Bernice. "In spite of what governments try and do."
Dion put his hand on the doorknob. He turned it and pulled. The door swung open with ease as it was mounted to take advantage of the balance. Dion stopped when it was at the halfway point and turned to look at Bernice again.
"One question," he said to her. He waited.
"Go ahead," she responded.
"What are you going to do about all those Azuroth who came through? The last we saw of them was a column marching in the direction of the mountain pass."
"I guess we'll worry about them when the time comes," she replied. "The sisters showed us the tower has some use as a military garrison. Perhaps the sovereign was too quick to decommission the army in favor of the dragon corps. We might have to turn it into a garrison again with the sisters in charge of the post."
Kiley looked up with bright eyes when she heard those words. "Mother and father would've liked that," she stated.
Dion pulled the door open all the way. "Everyone follow me, this is where we leave," he ordered and stepped into the other side.
As before, there was a momentary flash of darkness and he found himself back in the huge library. He continued to move as the others needed space too. Dion stepped forward and turned around.
His parents were inside the library next, followed by his Uncle Seth. After them were the security guards who had been employed by the mall. Since no one else was coming through to the other side, he expected the door would slam shut.
But it didn't. The door closed slowly and then locked itself with an audible click. Dion felt relived and turned back to face Adam Belial, the man who had taken him through the door to the next world where the tower was located.
"I didn't expect anyone through here today," he said. "It wasn't on the schedule, what is the meaning of- oh, hello Mr. Bach!"
Adam faced his employer, Seth Bach. Dion's uncle was not happy and pushed him aside as he thundered through the next door.
Adam watched him leave and turned back to the crowd. "Now what was that all about?" he asked.
"Mr. Bach is not having a good day," Dion explained. "If you'll excuse me, I need to leave with my parents."
"Hey, what about us?" one of the security guards called out. "We've spent the past three months keeping those furry things away from everyone else. When do we get paid?"
"You'll have to take that up with my uncle," Dion explained and pulled his parents along with him. A few seconds later, he was through the next door and thundering down the stairs to the office where the twins had their office.
Anders and Blaze both stood behind their counter as Dion entered their office with his parents. He stopped for a few minutes and asked them if his uncle had just come through.
"Yes he did," Anders, informed them. "Seemed to be in a bad mood. What happened up there?"
"I'm sure you'll hear about it in due time," Dion told them. "How did he leave?"
"The door on the wall," Blaze said, as he pointed to a door where one had not existed the last time Dion had been in the office.
"It's the same one you used when you came through," Blaze explained. "But this one has stayed in place."
"No it's not," Anders argued with his brother. "That one had red wood with a brass plate."
"You're wrong as usual," Blaze snapped at him. "It was a brass frame over green wood."
As they bickered and argued, Dion went to the door and opened it. Blackness again. There was only one way to be sure and he didn't have time to run tests. He took his parents by the hand and pulled them together as he went through the entrance.
Seconds later, after the light returned, he found himself back in the antechamber where Edward took him before he left. This was the same place and even the little Englishman was standing there in his shirt and tie.
"My, that was quick," he said to him. "Did you plan on going back and finishing?"
"What are you saying?" Dion asked him. "I was there all night. I'm beat. By the way, this is my mother and father."
"Ah," Edward responded. "Time dilation again. I should have known. Fine boy you have there." He shook the hands of both of Dion's parents.
Dion went back to close the door and noticed something odd when he looked on the other side. Instead of darkness, light streamed into a vacant chamber. He stepped into the chamber on the other side of the door and saw metal struts holding up an aluminum structure. The clock part of the tower was visible way up in the air. There was even a service ladder, which ran up to it.
He walked into the shaft further and looked around some more. It wasn't the lack of any activity inside it, the tower was a shell, an artificial creation designed to have the appearance of a medieval clock tower, but it was made from cheap metal and fiberglass. He doubted it would last five years before it needed to be replaced. Of course, this mall would be around for another fifty years at least, his uncle, or whoever he sold it to, would need to replace the tower or remodel the mall. He betted on the latter option.
Dion turned and walked back through the door into the office of the mall.
Lilly almost knocked him over when she collided with him.
"Dion!" she cried out, "I missed you so much!" Lilly through her arms around him.
While his parents looked at Lilly in disbelief, Dion pulled her away and stood behind her.
"This is my fiancé, Lilly," he told them. "Lilly, these are my parents. I went into the tower last night to rescue them. I was successful as you can see."
"She wasn't the only one who was worried," another voice called from the opposite side of the office. Dion looked across and saw Sean and Emily.
"We were worried about you going inside there," Emily told him. "I know we weren't supposed to, but we had to be here when you entered the tower. We showed up late and found Edward standing by the door. He told us you were just left a few minutes ago."
"Time dilation," Edward explained again. "It happens when you cross time circles. To us, it seems Dion was gone only a few minutes. To him, it seems he was out all night. I'm sure the boy needs sleep."
"A little bit," Dion said as he put one hand to his head. He would need to see a doctor later about the blow he took to it. Surely, he could make up some story how it happened. Most members of the medical profession would look at you odd if you told them about being in the middle of a fight between demoniods and sphinxes.
"I managed to find the fifth element grandmaster," Dion announced, "so now I have the power of the aether."
"Did you rescue her?" Lilly asked him. "Wasn't she kidnapped by your uncle?"
"It was a little more complicated than that," he explained. Dion looked around the room. "As a matter of fact, where is my uncle? I thought he went through the door before me."
"He did," Edward explained. "And I let him go. He shot past us and never said a word. I daresay he has many things on his mind right now."
"Dion," his father said. "Can you take us somewhere? It has been a long time."
"We can go to your other brother's house," Dion told him. "I've stayed with them since you disappeared last year."
"Oh," his mother commented. "We must be in Ohio."

Epilogue

The porch over the mountains gave a good view of Mount Olympus. This was fine to the man who wore a silk dressing gown and sipped his coffee while reading the newspaper. He'd never accustomed to the modern smart phones and personal computers. The newspaper was enough for him and he liked to read his news after it had a few hours to settle down. He also took his morning meal alone, away from the petty troubles he had to endure later in the day.
So it was a surprise when the servant came into the marbled patio and stood silently by the breakfast table. The older man, who sat there with his newspaper, slowly turned and looked at the servant. The man who was seated at the table had a long grey beard and stroked it when he saw him. This was unusual. What could be so important it required is attention right away?
"Mr. Jupiter," the servant said to him. "I have a man who wants to see you."
"Does he have an appointment?" the greybeard asked. He took a sip of his coffee. What could it be this time?
"No, but I think you need to meet with him," the servant replied. He'd worked for the Mountain long enough to know when to interfere with his boss's routine. Now was such a time.
"You know my policy," he thundered back. "No unannounced appointments. Now get him out of here."
"I don't think that's possible," a voice said behind the servant. "He's already here."
A young man stepped from behind the servant and starred at the older man. The greybeard looked at him and nearly dropped his coffee. The eyes, it was the eyes. Only one other person on earth had those eyes. There was another one long ago, but she was gone, to his eternal shame.
Which meant this young man had to be...?
"Dion," he announced. "My name is Dion. We need to talk."
"You are my son," Jupiter Olympus said while his voice trembled. "I am your father."
"No you are not," Dion said. "You might have some part in my conception, but my real father was the one who raised me."
"Doesn't all the money I spent to make sure you were adequately cared for count?" the older man snapped back at him. "It should amount to something."
"Not any longer it doesn't" Dion told him. "I've passed my own trials. I can show you an example later, but we need to talk. There is much you and I have to discuss."
The servant was gone. He understood sometimes his presence was unnecessary.
Dion went and sat down next to the older man. The weather was good outside and was supposed to remain that way all day.

- THE END -














Steamy Short Stories





Break - A Bad Boy Romance

Chapter One

The woman in front of me was being fucked to within an inch of her life. Her entire face was flushed red, the color extending far down onto her chest and to her two swollen nipples. She was writhing like something possessed, as though she was about to combust into flames at any second.
"She won't come until I tell her she can," said her tormentor to me. He flicked a sweat-damp fringe from his face and pummeled into her with more urgency.
"What do you think - should we let her come?" he said through strained breath, flashing deep, laughing brown eyes in my direction.
My mind raced.
A year ago, I had only seen this man in pixelated images. He had been nothing more than ink on a newspaper for me, and now... now he was sweaty and deep in a yelping woman who seemed to be melting before our very eyes.

Maybe I should back up a little. Everything happened so fast that it seemed like one day my life consisted of nothing but the endless cycle of work, sleep, eat ...and then he appeared, like a dark hurricane, and turned everything on its head.
It started like this: I had gone into work early that Tuesday to beat back my growing inbox and try to get a head start on the madness that the rest of the week would surely entail. I was in that sweet spot where I had successfully started at Cache magazine on the right foot, but after six months there, I didn't need to be so '"yes ma'am, no ma'am" as I had been in the first few weeks. I was beginning to relax into my new role a little.
I was young, sure, but sometimes having a lot to prove and nothing to lose is exactly the state of mind you need to write well.
"Katie, come in here a sec, would you?"
It was my boss Penelope Welsh, a severe pedant of a woman and dying supernova in the publishing world. She had used that notorious icy voice that could either mean I was about to be praised to heaven or threatened with my life. For Penelope, life was a dreadful bore, and she lived only for those moments of either sublime journalistic joy that made life worth living ...or else eviscerating the newbie guts of baby writers like myself.
It being only Tuesday, I hoped it was the former.
"Your Tom Hood piece ...walk me through this. What where you doing here exactly?"
Her artsy metal earrings swung on either side of her head. She gestured to her computer screen like an unknown bug had landed there. This looked bad. As far as I could tell, Penelope asked people to "walk her through" things only so she could eviscerate them all the better. Shit.
"Uh, yes, Tom Hood. I wanted to suggest that those nude photo leaks are kind of a new avenue for self promotion for him, that celebrities are looking for ways to manage their image by curating this completely fake online presence, except tha--"
She raised a single bony finger to shut me up.
"He didn't like it," she said, revealing a new cryptic streak that was unfamiliar to me.
"Who didn't?"
"Tom Hood didn't," she said, relishing how ridiculous this clearly sounded to me. Her earrings had stopped swinging. I opened my mouth to speak, but she raised the bony finger higher.
"He called me, you know. For some stupid reason. He says you've been unflattering and he wants an apology." She turned her face back to the screen with a quizzical look. "As far as I'm concerned you did the asshole a favor with this piece, but what do I know? He doesn't seem like he wants to cause any trouble. So, will you do it?"
"Do what?"
"Oh, right. Will you meet with him? He wants an apology. And he says he wants to do a more formal interview and a larger piece on this nude photo scandal crap. I'm going to have to bump Mira's piece this month and that's going to burn her ass, but he wanted you specifically, and I'm not going to turn that down, so I said you would. You OK with that? We kind of need it this quarter."
It was barely 5 minutes past 7 and I had already been assigned the biggest story of my short and desperate career. It was a lot to take in.
All at once, Tom Hood was real.
I had written a mere line or two of snark about him and now he had appeared right in the middle of my boring Tuesday morning, like a demon summoned with some kind of spell.
I was thrilled. I played it cool.
"Sure," I said, trying to sound casual about it.
"Good. Just see what he wants. I don't mind where you want to take it, honestly, but just keep Eddy in the loop, too, you'll need some photos."
She handed me a Post-It note with a time and place scratched on it in tight, impatient handwriting.
"Tomorrow?!" I said, horrified.
"Yeah? You can't do it? I can get Mira to try -"
"No, I'll do it," I blurted.
I turned quickly to leave her office before anything else happened, but as I was about to close the door she quipped, "Well, have you seen them?"
"What?"
"The nudes."
Ah, the nudes. Tom Hood had had his phone "hacked" and all his precious dick pics were now "leaked" all over the world, and it was shocking, simply shocking to him. Not only did this idiot have the gall to try this stunt, he actually believed people would fall for it. The photos were pure trash of course - grainy candid shots of him in various stages of undress, one with him completely naked, a pair of bikini-clad models in the background, him laughing with an obscenely large dick just hanging there...
"No, of course I haven't seen them, ew," I said, crinkling my face up.
"You should. Guy's hung," she replied and returned to her work, smirking.
Okay then.
I went to my desk, the emails I was dead set on just a second ago suddenly seeming utterly unimportant now. The butterflies in my stomach had not abated. I chewed nervously on the end of a long-suffering pencil and typed into Google, "Tom Hood nude pictures", looking once over my shoulder.

Chapter Two

By the time I got home that evening, it was already somehow eight o'clock and was drizzling slightly. I was bone-tired, a little scratchy, and in no mood to deal with what I found there.
"Tigger's got his diarrhea again!" he said, the very first second I walked in the door.
My head throbbed.
Tigger was nowhere to be found, but the vague odor of cat shit lingering in the air let me know immediately what had happened. My boyfriend stood lamely in front of me.
"Jeremy! Really? I told you not to feed him scraps from the kitchen, it messes him up," I said, flinging my bag into the corner. My eyes caught the sight of a sickly brown puddle peeking out from behind the kitchen corner.
I wanted to cry.
"What! You haven't even cleaned it up yet!" I rushed over and found a guilty-looking Tigger nervously cowering beside the fridge.
"Yeah, he only did it just a moment ago," Jeremy said.
"Well, when?"
"Uh... I don't know? I was in a game, babe, so I didn't actually see him do it, you know?"
I glanced my eyes over to his Xbox, a half open bag of Dorito's spilling onto the floor. I glared at him, fuming.
This was my boyfriend, the kind of man who would play Call of Duty for five hours straight, spew Doritos all over the floor and then when feeble old Tigger ate them, would literally watch him shit himself and think, well, Katie will just clean it up. When she gets home. From her job.
Anger shot through me. I was too tired to deal with this.
"How long have you been home, anyway?" I asked, slowly and not without a bit of poison in my voice.
He looked away.
"Oh come on, not this shit again, Katie. I didn't realize I had to check in and out of my own house everyday."
Something in me snapped. His house? I'd had enough. I kicked the fridge with all the energy I could muster, sending poor Tigger scampering away.
"I want you to leave!"
He started to protest, but one angry look from me shut him right up. He stormed out, banging the door behind him.
I stood there and waited for the throb in my big toe to subside, and felt my eyes filling with furious tears. Tigger poked his head round the corner to see if it was safe to come out again. I had had a long, stressful day and this is what I came home to? I crumpled down into a heap on the kitchen floor, defeated, and instantly felt my phone bleep.
It was from him.
"Don't bother apologizing, I'm not coming back," his message read. I nearly laughed out loud. Apologize? My first thought was to hurl the phone against the cupboard, but somehow I found myself doing something else. I rubbed the tears out of my eyes with the back of my hand. With a few easy swipes of my fingers, I was staring at my phone, at him again. Why had I saved these pictures? That's easy: research. He's a public persona, and one who probably loved the attention anyway, so there was nothing unethical about me having these images. And looking at them. Right?
I stared for a long time at the last picture in the series, the one that had appeared just a few weeks ago across the pages of every junk tabloid in the country, the one that had brandished (large!) black censor bars all over the only parts that people had wanted to see anyway. I stared at his face. At his body. At his face again.
Three lean supermodel types were in the background, frolicking, mid-giggle and each probably no older than twenty. With bleary eyes I focused on a woman in the center back - she was all catwalk model limbs and jet-black hair extensions, some kind of music video whore, probably. But at least she's not wasting her evening cleaning up cat shit, now is she?
I sighed.
I allowed my eyes to fall on his body again. Surely people didn't really look like that. Not really. I stared for a long time at the almost comically large cock hanging loosely between the two toned, tanned thighs. Was it photoshopped? It was the look of a Spartan still pumped up from battle, but the face was all wrong somehow and didn't match: it was an easy, mocking face, too comfortable, arrogant even. Familiar somehow. It was the face of someone who's never struggled, never had to fight for a thing in their lives.
My hand found its way into my pants. Fuck that stupid idiot for taking advantage of me. I wanted all his dumb gaming equipment out, and I never wanted to see him again. I slipped a noncommittal hand into my underwear, still looking at the picture. What was her life like? Did she have to put up with a man-child for a boyfriend? Or was it champagne and Gucci, all day, everyday?
I closed my eyes and felt ugly threads of tension slowly leaving my body. The kitchen floor was cold and hard, but I deflated with a huge sigh and try to calm down. It would be OK. I would be OK. It was hard now, but I was working for something. I had a purpose. Men could wait.
My fingers found the old familiar sensations as I began to stroke my clit, still staring at the same picture I must have looked at a million times already today. I imagined something easy, soothing, something outrageously hot. Why couldn't I be the sexy girl on the yacht with the celebrity? Who would stop me now if I imagined myself laid down on a bed of money, lavished with attention by some airheaded stud with a big cock? Why not?
I moved my fingers more quickly.
My boyfriends had always been kind of weedy, nerdy types. And I liked it that way. Men with big dicks usually are big dicks, right?
A soft wet bead of moisture grew at my fingertips as images flitted through my mind. I bet he had so much sex he was bored of it already. I bet a big idiot like him could fuck for hours, like a machine.
Hovering over the edge of a warm, friendly orgasm, I held myself suspended there for a moment, still staring hard at the picture. Each pixelated fold and vein. The small pleat between his hard thighs and the flat of his stomach. What if it was me, perched there on his lap, with every last inch of that cock buried inside me? Curling my spine, I squeezed my eyes shut, shuddered smoothly and came, with long, easy twitches.
Damn. Ok. I stood up, flustered. Buttoned my jeans up again and looked with fresh disgust at the picture. I swiped the screen with slick fingers.
"Are you sure you want to delete Image 05?"
Yes!
Delete it all.
I was done with this shit.
I was finally getting recognized at work, finally making strides in a career that took many people decades to get off the ground. I wasn't going to let some rich jock take up any more space in my mind than he strictly needed to.

Chapter Three

Looking back, I'm pretty sure my body knew what was up long before I did. Had I been paying attention, I would have noticed that I took just a little longer getting dressed the next morning, and picked an outfit that admittedly, I wouldn't have worn otherwise.
I pretended this was all necessary, all part of this game I was playing wherein I was a professional, and people took me seriously. I would have to meet him at an expensive, up-market hipster hole where I would be forced to put fussy drinks and snacks on Penelope's credit card and act like I did this all the time.
And he was late.
It was 11:00 am on the nose that I began to sweat in my low cut silk blouse and skirt that was just a few threads long enough for plausible deniability. My feet were killing me in my heels. Ten minutes disappeared and then another ten. I began to get annoyed. Possibly by the realization that even I, professional cynic and hard ass, was a little buzzed to be meeting the Tom Hood.
What an asshole.
Just as I had mentally condemned him forever, and resigned myself to trying to look busy and not stood up, a hidden number flashed across my phone screen with a buzz.
I froze and then snatched at it, nearly knocking over a glass of water on the table.
"Hello?"
"Is this Katie Mack?"
For a while, I actually didn't know the answer. It was a deep, familiar accent, but instantly new somehow. It was him.
He repeated the question, this time with an extra lilt; it was a strange voice, rough and silky at the same time, like old velvet.
"Yes, this is she," I said and instantly felt like a dumbass. "This is she"? Nobody but my grandmother spoke like that, what on earth was I thinking.
"Oh, hi. It's Tom. We were supposed to have a meeting today, right?"
Without thinking, the full-blown image of his thick, unapologetic cock sprung into my head. I violently shook it out of my head.
"Oh, yeah, no. Um - of course, yes! You were supposed to meet me at 11, I think."
I think? Why the fuck was I apologizing?
"I am so sorry," cooed the velvet voice from inside the phone. "I'm just, uh, I'm tied up with something right now, you know?" This last part came out strange somehow, and the voice warped a little at the end and trailed off.
"Oh? Umm... no problem, do you want to reschedule then?"
The line was silent while I waited for an answer, and all of a sudden, a nervous burst of laughter. Then, a woman's voice, a panicked giggling followed by a loud "shhhhh!"
My face dropped.
"Is this a bad time? I'll get the secretary to reschedule with you if -"
"No, don't!" he said, a little too loudly.
I could still faintly hear the giggling in the background. Was this guy for real? Did he just have a bevy of sluts following him around 24/7?
"I mean, I'm sorry, yes, let's reschedule. My apologies."
What happened next was, in hindsight, probably the turning point, the big crazy hinge around which everything turned. It was almost imperceptible. I almost didn't notice it. But I heard it - a quiet, quick growl under the breath, followed by a single, desperate gasp as a counterweight. It was the softest, tiniest sound imaginable ...but there was no mistaking it. I knew that sound anywhere. It was the sound of a man coming.
I dropped the phone on the table like it had suddenly sprouted spikes. I ended the call, dazed.
I had seemingly forgotten to breathe during the entire exchange and did it all at once the second the screen went dark. I was sitting there like a complete idiot, done up with three different kinds of foundation on my face and shoes that should have been banned for human's rights violations... and I had been stood up by a jerk, an asshole who had the cheek to haul me all this way to give him an apology and then ...and then ...was he playing a game with me? I sat stewing for a few moments more.
The other, weirder thought came bubbling up in my mind. He was definitely having sex. Right now. I was busy being mad as hell for being messed around and he was...
I looked down at my phone again, ears burning. It was too outrageous to be true and yet it was: I had just had my first celebrity interview, and it was with Tom Hood, the Tom Hood, and he was on the phone, breathing heavy, dick in some giggling girl most likely.
'Tied up' indeed.
"Ew," I said under my breath and immediately wondered whom I thought I was trying to convince. I got up to leave.
It wasn't ew. In fact, it was all I thought about for the rest of the day.

Chapter Four

"Oh my God, Katie, there you are! Get in here and open this stupid letter, I'm dying to see what it says and they won't let me open it!"
Clara, the new intern, was hovering excitedly over my desk, eyeballing a giant basket of blood red flowers with a small white card skewered on a plastic fork in the center.
When did my life become a sappy rom com?
"Didn't you break up with what's-his-name? Is it from him? What a douche," she said, bouncing from foot to foot like a kid at Christmas.
The arrangement was overwhelming the entire surface of my small desk; the whole thing was unreal, the giant roses and lilies completely out of place in our minimalist chrome office. I felt worryingly conspicuous. I opened the card, gingerly; not quite believing this was really for me.

Miss Mack,
Please forgive my disgusting phone manners
67 Baltic Terrace, 9:00pm
You'll have my full attention, promise
T

My eyes whipped over the lines again and again, trying to make sense of the letters.
It was an actual house address. An invitation. At night.
Clara looked at me with big eyes. "Oh God, it IS from what's-his-name, isn't it?"
I stuffed the card back in the envelope and buried it into the mound of stems.
"Uh, yeah, it's from my ex. What a douche."
I looked at my watch - it had just gone 3pm. Thinking twice, I grabbed the card again and slid it into my pocket.
"Hey, Clara, could you just let Penelope know I went out for a sec?"
"Sure. But she's at the other office for a few days anyway. She's been asking about your interview with what's-his-name though - how'd that go?"
"Uh, yeah, the interview ...if you see her just let her know I'll have it ready for Friday, OK?"
I dashed out, not giving Clara the chance to pry any further. I only had a few hours. I would need time to think.
And I would definitely need a sexier dress. And shoes. Maybe.

Chapter Five

If you had asked 5-year-old me to imagine what the home of one of the country's wealthiest personalities looked like - she would have accurately described 67 Baltic Terrace.
It looked like it was the scene of a movie. Flush with vaulted marble ceilings, dense green lawns folding into infinity pools, and a swooping grand staircase at the main entrance.
Tom Hood had made his fortune speculating on hot tech start ups, "angel" funding those two bit operations that turned into outrageous money-machines in a span of just a few years. He had a knack for spotting business diamonds so rough that it was almost as if his investment in them alone was the very thing to transform them, to make emperors out of the long sighted nerds in garages, and empires out of their impossible dreams. Tom Hood had made many people's dreams come true, and he was living his own, clearly.
Coming down the staircase was a lithe, black haired girl in some kind of luxurious-looking kimono. A week ago, I would have laughed if someone had told me that this is what my dream magazine job would be paying me to do on a Wednesday evening, but by this point, I was getting used to the feeling that everything associated with Tom Hood had a sheen of unreality to it, a strange glint of power that he seemed to wear so well.
He was still a dick, though, obviously.
The black haired girl smiled broadly at me, slinking down the last few of the steps and gliding over to me as though she had been expecting me all her life. This, I thought, was some weird Stepford Wife nonsense right here. I made a mental note to take in every detail about her, knowing I'd find a place for her in my article, whatever it turned out to be.
"Are you Miss Katie Mack? Oh, welcome! It's very nice to meet you," she said with just a distant waft of an exotic accent, and then extended her slender hand.
I followed her all the way back up the staircase, eerie music seeming to come and go in pockets of air as we passed by rooms and corridors, finally reaching a wide conservatory style room at the end, and the source of the music.
The jaded part of me saw only the ill-gotten gains in the glittery tiles and disgusting privilege dripping in every giant mirror and painting we passed ...but another, smaller part of me was quietly amazed.
Tom Hood was barely 30 years old. This was success, and there was no denying it. I was so used to seeing him surrounded by shocking red and yellow tabloid headlines that this neutral, expensive taste unfolding all around me was quite striking. He really was very wealthy.
By the time my black haired escort flung open the conservatory doors, I hadn't yet decided if I was brimming with judgment or with secret admiration for all this opulence.
The black haired girl kept her kimono-ed arms spread open and floated over on her tiptoes to join Tom, who was seated on a cushion like a Buddha, bent over a carved chess board.
It occurred to me all at once that I should have prepared far more thoroughly for this interview than I had. I had spent too much time on my outfit, too little time on ...well, I wasn't sure yet. But I felt unprepared, already off-kilter.
A pair of small muscles was working in his bare, upper arms as he moved the pieces round before looking up and smiling cordially at me.
Great. He had decided not to wear a shirt.
The black haired girl had turned the music down and was flitting about with something in the periphery of my vision.
"Miss Mack! Welcome to my humble abode," he said, and the girl giggled in appreciation.
She was busy fixing me a drink. Not Kool-Aid, I thought, although I wouldn't be surprised if the story took that turn.
Again, there was something startling in how different he seemed in real life. How three-dimensional. He had that kind of vestigial dusty blonde-brown hair that some men seem to carry over from childhood, even though every other part of them had grown and matured. I guess I had always just written off male bodies of this exact kind: the predictable Calvin Klein physique in expensive lounge wear, the kind of deliberate all-American healthy tan, the boringly tight abs.
I had always shirked away from this kind of thing the same way I did from infomercials and ads - and for the same reason, too. I had had my beginnings in the advertising industry, and in my current job, I stared all day at men just like this. I was numb to this kind of beauty. I was just being pandered to, right? Just being sold something. Nothing sexy about it. Rampant objectification may work on men, sure, but I liked to think I personally was made of stronger stuff.
And yet... here was this body, this real-life flesh, and there was something immediately and obviously different in it. This body wasn't an image, it wasn't fake and forced and cheesy. The ease with which he held himself, his upright posture, the bridled strength that seemed to pulse in even his smallest movements ...here was a man who was utterly and completely in control of his physical form.
And what a physical form it was.
He was more Robinson Crusoe than hedge fund kid. Not a Calvin Klein model but the inspiration for one.
This was very unexpected. I all at once felt small and became aware of myself slouching, of how cheap my haircut must have looked to him.
"Drink?" said the girl, and snapped me out of my daydreaming.
I thanked her, took the glass she was offering me and had a sip, noting how beautifully comfortable she looked, and feeling the lack of my own comfort even more strongly.
"It's a pity we missed each other yesterday, I do apologize," he continued, crinkling the corners of his eyes into a warm smile.
I cleared my throat.
"Well, it's me that should apologize - I was made aware that you weren't happy with my piece. I do apologize. Cache magazine is primarily committed to content that is fair, so we're absolutely more than happy to issue another article with a more balancing perspective, and you'll have the chance to weigh in throughout, and we'll run each quote by you befo--"
"Woah woah woah," he said, raising two broad hands and shaking his head.
I stopped.
The black haired girl looked adoringly at him, as though everything that fell from his lips was gospel from God himself.
Was she his girlfriend? Some random groupie? I would have to explore that angle for sure.
"I don't care about any of that," he said. "Cache magazine is, if you'll excuse me, a piece of shit. They've written about me before, and they've been wrong before. But you ...you were right."
"What?" I stammered.
He had shifted his weight in the heavily upholstered chair and the black haired girl now perched herself prettily on one of his thighs, snaking a bare brown arm over his shoulders.
I was right? Then why had he called me all the out here to apologize? Why had I bought this ridiculous faux-reporter-please-take-me-seriously color-blocked monstrosity of a dress?
"I was told you were unhappy with my reference to you and your recent ...data security issues, and so I..."
He interrupted me immediately.
"Oh my God, you are way too highly strung," he said.
I tried to respond but he cut me short again, pinning me with his gaze.
"I just said that to get you here, obviously. But you're actually onto something. I absolutely did leak those pictures on purpose."
I felt like I was rapidly drifting out of my depth. I hadn't prepared for any of this. And I was developing a complete and decided hate for my new dress.
I felt stupid.
I realized with fresh petulance that what I really wanted was exotic, flowing robes like this dark haired girl draped over him, and golden dangly bracelets, and I wanted to be loose and easy, and have long Pantene hair and easy confidence.
"Ok, well, sure, there's not a journalist in this country that believes you were actually hacked, right?" I said, in a tone that instantly seemed too hard and snarky, even to me.
He looked hurt.
"Man, that was mean," he said and turned to the girl. "Kai, I think it's your fault for not making that drink strong enough, honestly. Miss Mack seems pretty stressed out."
He turned back to me.
This wasn't the way it was supposed to go. He was the rich, asshole one-percenter, and I was the honest, truth-loving journalist who was going to expose him to the world. It was like he didn't even know how this story was supposed to go.
He was looking down at the chessboard.
You wouldn't think someone with such triumphantly toned pec muscles could look disappointed, but he did. And I felt bad.
"You misunderstand me," he said. "I know what the press makes me out to be, obviously. But the way you wrote about me was ...different. You get it. What did she say...?" he looked over to Kai, who immediately parroted off a line from my article.
"She said, 'Hood is not the first to troll the media with fake 'leaks', but why should he stop there? When you're as wealthy as he is, you can afford an extra identity or two.'"
He chuckled.
"Man, I love that line," he said, clapping his hands together. He stared meditatively at the chessboard again, Kai looking pleased at having performed well.
Was it some weird sort of S&M thing? Was there a dungeon somewhere in this stupidly huge house? That would make for a good story.
"I love it because it's so true. I want you to write more like that. You're good at creating characters, so make another one for me. I don't like the image they have of me right now"
"The image?" I asked, thinking that he must be deluded if he thought the media had got him all wrong and that the model sipping champagne in his lap right now was somehow not what it looked like.
"Yeah. The image. Go on - what do think of me? Tell me. Three words."
"Three words? What do you--"
"Yeah, quickly. Tom Hood. First three words that pop into your head. Go."
"Ok bu--"
"No, just do it."
I squirmed in my chair. I was mesmerized by how tight and vibrant his skin seemed. Warrior-like, I thought, making a note to say so in my revised piece. But I was also aware of another image trying to push into my mind. My gaze fell on the toned V shape disappearing into his pants, and I thought with horror about how well I knew how that shape continued down over the rest of him.
"Ok. Stupid," I said. This seemed to upset Kai more than it did him.
"And ...privileged," I said after a pause. "Or maybe, entitled." This elicited a tiny twitch around his mouth but he only sat silently, waiting for the third word.
My eyes flicked over his bare stomach again.
"And. Well. Sexy." I said this like it had been tortured out of me.
When I looked up I fell immediately into the beam of his gaze again.
"But I don't see what that has to do with anything. Can we just start with the interview?" I said, a little embarrassed.
What had made him make that sound on the phone yesterday? What made this man happy? What did he do, secretly, for pleasure? What did he do with this beautiful woman in all these rooms? What special words and gestures and actions would get him to make that sound again?
"Start? We started ten minutes ago. This is the interview. You're going to write a story, a different story, and you're going to make sure I don't seem stupid or entitled or privileged. You're going to--"
"Mr. Hood," I snapped, "I'm not your hired PR person. You don't get to tell me what to write," I said, lashing out at even the slightest suggestion that I would slot into his vast harem somehow.
A slow, strange smile spread over his lips.
Reading some invisible change in the tides, Kai jumped up, stood behind him and began to gracefully massage his shoulders with long, womanly fingers. He spoke again, this time the velvety quality giving way to something rougher and more abrasive.
"Penelope Welsh has a net worth of around $1.2 million. I could buy your magazine before breakfast tomorrow and easily tell you what to do."
He was stroking the curved neck of the wooden Queen piece, turning her over again and again in his fingers.
"But I won't, because I have better things to do with my time, and besides, you want to write what I tell you. That's why you're here."
I nearly laughed out loud. I didn't know what surprised me more, his audacity, or the fact that I had trouble summoning up a rebuttal to it.
"Go on, leave if you're not interested," he said, gesturing to the door, while I fumbled for a response.
I was shocked at the sudden nasty turn things seemed to have taken. I began to wonder if I had been too rude, and played out a future where Penelope would tear me a new one for not only failing to apologize, but losing what could be a very lucrative story for Cache.
"I'm ...I'm sorry. That was rude of me," I said simply. Kai's eyes met mine for a brief moment, over the strong curve of his shoulder. For a moment, there was nothing in the room but her nimble fingers working on the tanned tendons around his neck.
He looked at me pointedly.
"Why are you limiting yourself with that job, anyway? Writing trash for Penelope Welsh, for peanuts? You're too good to be that kind of journalist, you know. You're an artist. Like me," he said, and this time I did laugh out loud.
An artist? This guy had a massive chip on his shoulder.
This time, the twitch on the corner of his mouth was more pronounced. Kai stopped massaging him and looked a little alarmed.
Shit. I had gone too far again.
He placed a hand on hers and spoke again.
"I'm going to ignore your insult. You know, I've read every piece of yours. You're talented. You've worked hard to get were you are. I admire that. But your voice is wasted where you are now, and you know that, so I won't tell you again. You think I'm an idiot and you don't even bother hiding your contempt for me. But I complimented you and you responded with venom. I suppose you're getting the proper journalistic training there after all."
This little speech was delivered so eloquently, so quickly and with such precision that I felt cut. The beginnings of tears were stinging my eyes. It was true. I had made a career of my shitty attitude, calling it "insightful comment" and "wit", but he was right. I wanted more than anything to be taken seriously, as an artist, and this bonehead had figured me out in ten minutes. My face prickled but my ego stung more.
'I'm ...I'm sorry you feel that way, Cache magazine is--" I started but he interrupted me again.
"Yeah, don't bother. You know what keeps rags like Cache afloat? Stories about people like me. That's it. That's all. You have the nerve to look down on me and yet every time I do something, you reporters swoop in like vultures, ready to make money off it. 'Fair'? If you say so. Judge my life all you want, but it pays your salary."
I didn't know what to do with myself. All the pieces the magazine had done on him over the years where crowding my mind, and I desperately searched for something to argue back with.
He had inherited a huge chunk of money from his father, had invested it in dodgy fracking technology in Canada, had called the president a "tit" to his face. For god's sake, this was the man who had just last month been in the papers for hosting pirate themed yacht orgies in the Mediterranean - and he was lecturing me about my integrity? It was too much.
I opened my mouth to say something, anything, but I was floundering.
"Hey, shh, don't worry about it, I'm not angry. But you know what I've noticed about journalists?" His voice was calmer now, and Kai began stroking his shoulders again.
"They're cowardly. They don't do much of anything themselves, they just sit on the sidelines, watching everyone else. Now that I think of it, it's all pretty voyeuristic."
His hand had reached up to Kai's again and was absentmindedly stroking hers in return.
"I'll write your story. I didn't mean to offend you. I want to show the public who you really are."
He didn't seem all that interested in my new confession, although I had startled myself with how easily I had given it. He was staring vacantly at a spot in front of him, thinking. Kai began to trace her hand down the front of his chest and he accepted it, not breaking his gaze or train of thought. She leant forward, letting the full lusciousness of her breasts and hair fall over him. She nuzzled herself into his neck and he gripped her forearms, trapping her there. He snapped his eyes up and straight to meet mine again, catching me staring. The effect was electrifying.
"Do you? Do you really want to show them ...or do you just want to watch?"
He began to gently kiss the length of Kai's thin arms, his eyes never breaking their gaze with mine.
My entire body flushed with the intensity of the moment.
"You're curious about me, aren't you? I think you're like everyone else, you have a morbid fascination with me ...you wish you could ...wish you had the guts to do what I do..." he mumbled this in between kisses he was planting on her soft, white skin.
He had a way of saying things that you simply couldn't argue with. He was an arrogant asshole. But he was also right. I didn't dwell on whether I was enjoying this new flagrant display, or whether he was spot on and that I did want to see him kiss this beautiful woman's arms, and maybe even do other things to her, and know exactly what he did on the phone yesterday, and what turned him on, and what he really thought of me, and what his life was really like, every bizarre, sordid, sexy inch of it...
But I didn't focus on that. I thought, instead, about how he must be a sex-crazed exhibitionist, him and this woman both, and that they were both playing with me, and that I would write an awfully clever piece later on about these eccentricities ...but was he right about the magazine? Where we all just feeding off him?
I said nothing. I couldn't. Keeping my breathing steady was apparently taking every last drop of effort I had.
"What do you think, Kai, do you think she'll get rid of that ugly blue dress and come play with us?"
My heart beat furiously in my ears. Kai gave me a long, slow look, dripping with more sexiness than you'd think possible for anything other than a black panther.
"I think she wants to keep her ugly dress on," Kai said, "But later, when she goes home tonight, she'll wish she had taken it off."
Who the hell was this woman anyway?
With a deep breath that seemed to expand his already broad chest, he twisted his head to the side and received a deep, wet kiss from Kai, slipping his hand through her hair and pulling her down further into him. With a strange little thrill, I noticed that his nipples were hardening under her girlish hands.
She drifted away and he returned his gaze to mine, something warmed and loose in his eyes that wasn't there before.
"Go ahead then, prove to me you're not like every other coward journalist and do something instead of just writing about it." He turned his torso again, giving me a full view of his crotch and angling Kai so that she came round to the front of him and seated herself on the floor at his feet.
"You're very angry, Miss Mack. Just look at Kai ...isn't she so beautiful? She's not afraid to be vulnerable. She's very submissive you know. Not my thing, personally, but look how happy it makes her," he said teasingly to the top of her head; she replied by giggling and playfully slapping the top of his thigh.
"Is it true, the rumor about those tar sands in Canada?" I asked, afraid of where this was going.
"Not even remotely," he said, fixing his gaze on Kai, who was nestling her face into his crotch.
"Did you really inherit everything from your father?"
"I never inherited a single cent from anyone."
"Is it true that you called the president a tit?"
"Nope. I called him an asshole," he replied, watching closely as she began to gingerly trace the outline of his cock through his pants.
"Is it really even you in those pictures?"
He looked at me and grinned.
"Of course."
I felt a dull ache growing between my thighs. I really did want to get out of this dress. I really was too angry. And I really did want to know about him, everything about him...
My head was spinning.
He reached down and tenderly tucked Kai's hair behind her ears, revealing that she was staring at him hungrily. With swift fingers, she began to pull down the zip, and he smiled peacefully down at her.
"I have to go," I said abruptly, jumping up from my seat. They both turned confused faces to me.
"Don't go," he said to me with the same tenderness.
I wanted to stay. I wanted Kai to unzip him and put all of him in her mouth, and I wanted to watch her coax that manly, delicious sound from him again. I wanted to see his arrogance shudder a little, and slip off. I wondered how he was when he came; whether he would lose control and grunt and clench his teeth, or whether he went soft and only whimpered, throwing back his head and giving in to pleasure. I wanted to catalogue everything this strong, healthy man's body did, and I wanted to document its every twitch and sigh, everything that gave it pleasure.
But another, stronger force compelled me to stand up awkwardly and before I knew it, I was racing down the same glittery halls I had walked only a few moments earlier. I tore down the swooping staircase and out of the house, heart pounding, completely disbelieving of the things I had seen in there. My head was spinning with the improbability of this whole thing, and with some amusement, I realized I was soaking wet.
Kai was wrong about me.
I didn't regret not taking my dress off when they had asked me. I regretted it that very instant, when I turned back and took one last glimpse of the house, with a growing, desperate pang that I hadn't had the guts to be in there right at that moment.

Chapter Six

Let me tell you, nothing in this world seems so boring after such an encounter than a full 8-hour day of sitting in front of a laptop.
Had my job always been this lackluster? I had something of a stimulus hangover form the night before. It was all too much. The champagne, Kai, the never-ending acres of manicured gardens I had to run through to leave... I have left plenty of heated moments in my life, let me tell you, but something about having to make your way through twelve rooms, a billiard area and a giant reception hall before you can slam the door behind you can make any girl disoriented.
It was all well and good for filthy-rich people like Kai and Tom to lounge around and be degenerates all day. But some of us had to make a living. A real living. I'm sure I could be an eccentric sexual connoisseur too if I didn't have to get up early in the morning and remember to give my cat his medicine every day.
I was irritated, but some of what Tom had said had taken root in my mind and was growing there, quietly.
The way he put it, it did seem like the media had swarmed around his larger-than-life life, themselves creating this overblown image and then feeding off of it in turn. But surely Tom was no innocent party - in fact, he seemed to love the attention. Thrive on it. He had specifically requested me, some unknown junior writer at a shitty magazine (it had only taken me the morning to decide that he was right about this) to craft an even more enthralling tale for the plebian masses.
It was awesome. And I was right at the center of it, tasked with putting just the right words to bring out how truly epic the whole arrangement was, how we were all complicit in this modern day myth making, with Tom and his mammoth manhood standing at the epicenter of it all. It would be a brilliant article, my best work.
The trouble was, I couldn't write. I sat for twenty minutes staring at an empty Word document. Everything that left my fingers felt phony. I backspaced it all, irritated. I wanted him to read it. To approve. He had lavished such soft, liquid gentleness all over Kai as she worked her fingers over his zip. And I wanted that for myself, I thought, not without a little embarrassment.
The tone of the piece was coming out all wrong. No sooner had I started to write, did I realize I hadn't captured the real strangeness of this man's presence, of how his well-spokenness wasn't at odds with his underwear model body, but somehow a natural part of it. He was a complete man whore, true, but there was something else about him, something noble and admirable, something that I wasn't managing to capture. Each paragraph just looked like something cheap and nasty from one of our rival magazines.
I backspaced everything and started again.
I had to show the reader how dazzling it had felt to be there with him, with the gravity of his presence seeming to warp and dominate everything around it.
I wanted to write about Kai, too, and about how completely she seemed to have surrendered to this invisible force. I didn't write how jealous it had all made me, and how badly I had felt the pull to let myself slip away with the current of his charisma.
"Tom Hood nude pictures," I asked Google for the bajillionth time that week.
Who was I kidding? It wasn't even remotely "research" anymore.
I scrolled through and landed on the picture I had first obsessed over on my cold kitchen floor a lifetime ago. It was the same grainy candid celeb shot it always was, but this time it looked different to me.
This time, the expressions on the girls' faces seemed so much more ...joyful. Tom's grim seemed broader, more wholesome, and the surface of each of his limbs seemed less flat, imbued with new depths somehow. People were wrong about him. He wasn't a vapid playboy. He was an Adonis, and these women were not groupies, they were devotees, sexual pilgrims, and the only difference between them and me was that they had given way to his...
I threw my phone into my bag and stared at the blank page again. I was a professional. What I thought about him didn't matter. Just write, dammit.

Chapter Seven

I turned the package over in my hands again and again. It was almost a perfect cube, tastefully wrapped and giving no clues at all about what could be inside.
"Oh my god, is what's-his-name still sending you shit again?" said Clara.
I'm pretty sure I've had hours-long conversations with Clara only to discover at the end of it that we both had been talking about completely different what's-his-names. Present circumstances meant I was relieved from having to lie to her, which was convenient, so I managed to be less curt with her than I usually am.
"Yup, from what's-his-name. Idiot."
"Open it."
"Nah, later."
"How did the meeting with what's-his-name go?"
"Fucking hell, Clara, which what's-his-name? I can't believe anyone ever lets you near a keyboard."
"You know, buddy, what's-his-name ...Tom Hood. Your interview with him."
"Yeah it was OK. He's a bit of an asshole, no surprise there."
"Oh," she said, taking her turn to look over the box.
"Complete ego maniac. Wants me to write a big piece singing his praises."
She lifted her eyebrows. "Are you going to?"
"Nah. What kind of asshole does that? I'm just going to write it like I see it," I said, putting on a phony accent and shrugging. Why was I saying this? Why couldn't I tell Clara what I really felt?
Her face went serious.
"It's such a big story, though. And it is kind of weird. No offense, but ...well, why not get Penelope to write it? Why did he ask you? No offense."
I took the package from her hands.
"None taken. He just saw that I had mentioned him in another piece and he thought I owed him an apology."
"That's it? So, Tom Hood, the Tom Hood, wants you to do a feature piece on him, just like that?"
I shot her a sour look and she balked immediately, sensing she had overstepped.
"Whatever, celebrities, I don't understand them," she said breezily.
"He's not just a celebrity you know, he is an actual entrepreneur ... and a lot of what we've written about him is actually kind of shitty and--" I stopped. Clara was staring at the package with renewed interest.
"Oh my god. That's from what's-his-name isn't it?" she said slowly, eyes widening.
I spun around and went to shove the package in my desk drawer.
"Yes, it's from what's-his-name, so what?"
She backed away with a sheesh and left, leaving me to think about what had just happened. Was she jealous of me? It hadn't occurred to me, but many women would have killed for the chance I had. More seriously, my mind wandered again to a darker thought: why had I thrown him under the bus like that? What counted as staying true to my story angle and what counted as a stupid crush on a hot celebrity?
Look, I'm a decent writer. But Tom Hood's life seemed harder and harder to explain. I was getting drawn in, when all I wanted was to occupy that calm, neutral territory of a true pro, be objective, show people that I didn't care how glitzy and glossy a thing was, my job was to get to the bottom of things ...and I intended to do that job well.
I opened the drawer again and tore off the wrapping. Inside was a padded jewelry box, with a delicate gold bangle nestled inside. Along the bangle's edge was a beautiful etched eye motif, like something you'd find marked on the entrance of an undiscovered Egyptian temple. It was so exactly my style that I held it in my hands for a moment, taken aback by its weight and cool surface, how pretty it was.
A tiny note inside was scribbled with a time and a date, as before. It was from him. I was being summoned, again. I snapped the box closed and flung it aside. Here I was trying to brainstorm a flattering and subtle profile for this man, and he was just a garden-variety player after all. Trying to buy me with stupid trinkets... One hot tear was growing on my lower lashes.
I had never both badly wanted and not wanted a thing at the same time before.

Chapter Eight

I returned to 67 Baltic Terrace the next day with quite a bit more apprehension than the first time, which is saying something.
Oppressed on all sides by sparkling fountains and trimmed topiaries, I felt more keenly than ever how much I didn't belong here. Not only was this attention from Tom Hood, the Tom Hood, entirely unexpected, I felt compromised by it instantly.
Was he making fun of me?
I was nothing like Kai, nothing like the leggy goddesses that seemed to follow him everywhere. I was dumpier by miles. Completely lacking in glamor. Matte, even. So, what was the game, then? I couldn't decide if I felt more humiliated that he had given a gift at all, to me, or that I was completely, utterly, one hundred percent wooed by it. Not only did this playboy jock have the audacity to mistake me for one of his floozies, but astonishingly, he seemed to be doing a good job of it. And here I was, dressed up, again, excited nearly half to death to see him once more.
What an idiot, I thought, as I found myself again in that cool marble entrance hall, except I wasn't quite sure if I meant him or me.
Half expecting Kai to glide down the staircase and collect me again, I was surprised instead to see him, standing at the top of the staircase, looking down at me. This time, there was no broad, easy grin. Just his face. He was covered up this time, too, and the contrast to before seemed more intimate somehow.
"Hello," I said, my voice echoing slightly against the walls.
He simply stared at me a little longer, then gestured for me to come up with a small, noncommittal lift of his chin. I obeyed. It must have taken me roughly 40 years to ascend that staircase, or perhaps it only felt like it with his eyes following my every step. But I reached the top landing and looked him square in the eye - or as square as I could given he was more than a foot taller than I was.
His gaze moved down the length of my body but stopped, and he frowned and suddenly looked crestfallen.
"You didn't wear the bracelet," he said, already seeming to accept the unhappy fact.
I had come here full of indignation for him but with these simple words his disappointment crushed me and I realized that I had offended him, again, and that it was the last thing I had wanted to do. Why hadn't I worn it? I had no clue.
"I'm ...I'm sorry but I ..." I could do nothing but trail off as I stared at his eyes again, and what I found there stunned me a little, so that even I, Katie Mack, who always has something to say, was speechless. It was a naked gaze, a look so full and open that I blushed instantly and started stammering again, desperately trying to normalize the situation.
"I can't accept gifts you know, especially as favors, it's just completely unprofessional..."
The disappointment on his face remained. I had blown it. But blown what exactly? I didn't know. I had gone through my entire life level headed and sober and somehow this, this man with just a few words could send my whole head into a fluster and have me bumbling like an idiot.
He looked down again at my bare wrist, reached out to softly take my hand and then led me along the corridor, to a different part of the house from before. My heart was beating violently inside me, his touch, though casual, seeming to send a wave of invisible goose bumps all up my arm.
We reached a dark, small room with a modest wood fire burning at the far corner. This room had a different character to the rest of the house. As my eyes adjusted, I could make out a few details here and there: an expensive speckled hide on the floor, two Bohemian looking red brocade chairs, arranged as though they were having a light conversation in the corner, an empty Chinese vase laced with red and gold filigree. I thought of poor Tigger alone at home, in my pitiful flat with its peeling wallpaper and budget shower fittings.
He sat down in one of the chairs and I followed and seated myself in the other. I would submit my article to Penelope tomorrow, and then ...I didn't know what would happen then. I couldn't think of anything beyond this warm, strange moment, and this curious face in front of mine, so strange and yet so familiar all at once, lit gently with the light from the flickering fire.
I reached into my bag and pulled out three printed pages, then handed them over to him. My article. He took them, looked at me, then lowered his eyes. Dozens of editors had ripped into my work, people had criticized things I'd written nearly half to death, all my life, and like a good little journalist, I had taken it all with a thick skin, swallowing my hurt ego and committing to learning more. But this felt different. Very different. I sat in painful anticipation, studying his face to find any hint of what he thought of the piece, inwardly desperate for any flicker of approval, any sign that I had pleased him, at least in some small way.
His almond brown eyes flicked through the lines rhythmically, and he read quickly and quietly, not betraying his thoughts about it at all until he nodded once and raised his head again to speak.
"It's ... very good," he said simply.
I felt warm and happy and confused and filled with a strange growing hunger that had no direction, no focal point except to do whatever he would find pleasing. It was a silly, girly state of mind, but as his praise hung there between us, I didn't care, and I relaxed a little in the thought that I had written something good. For him.
"Thank you," I said, consciously trying to reign myself in.
He let the pages drop to the floor and looked at me again, cocking his head to one side.
"I'm sorry about what I said the other day, about you being a cowardly journalist," he said. The warmth and darkness of the room seemed to be closing in all around me. "I just don't like to see people being ...well, you have a talent, and you censor it. Why?"
My face flushed with this new, gentle turn his attitude to me had taken. I tried to think of some witty comeback, something to quip in response. I tore my eyes away from his and tried to think.
"What are you afraid of, really? Why do you hold back all the time?" he said, and I was again thrown off by the casual intimacy of the question.
"Hold back? I never hold back," I snorted. I told it like it is. That was my whole job, right?
"Yeah you do," was his immediate response. "You go up really close to something you want, then you back away. Like you're scared." He shifted his weight in the chair and let his eyes wander shamelessly all over my body. "I meet a lot of women. A lot of women. Some are more closed up than others, and that's fine by me. Take a woman like Kai. Now she's not afraid of a damn thing. Her heart's completely open."
The mention of her name felt like finding a bitter seed in what till now had been a sweet fruit. I hated hearing him talk about her.
"Yeah, I'm sure being a gold digger like her takes a lot of guts" I said.
He laughed.
"See? See how closed you are?"
"But come on Tom, Kai? Of course her 'heart is open', I mean she's stupidly beautiful and she probably has had men paying her way all her life."
He raised his eyebrows at this little outburst.
"Where is she anyway?" I asked.
"She's in Brazil right now. I only see her a couple of times a year."
"In Brazil? Attending a sugar daddy conference is she? Getting some more plastic surgery?" I felt growing anger that we were talking about her at all, that she was in the way, even when she wasn't here at all.
"No, not at all. Kai owns a coffee plantation in Minas Gerais and she's in some serious talks with the unions there about implementing more environmentally friendly farming techniques."
It felt like Kai had appeared before me and slapped me hard across the face.
"Oh, I'm sorry."
"It's OK, you're jealous of her," he said simply. He smiled at the frown this brought to my face. "You know, if you just opened up a little, you'd probably discover lots of other feelings, too." His eyes were moving over me again.
"Ok, fine, I am jealous of her," I said. I did feel relieved to say it out loud like that.
"See, was that so hard?" he smiled. "To be honest, I'm a little jealous of her," he said, laughing.
I laughed too.
"You're also very attracted to me," he said suddenly, and I stopped laughing.
"What?"
"Yeah. You keep coming here, getting really close ...and then running away again. You're attracted to me."
"I..." I stammered, but realized I was only going to say something stupid, to lash out again at him. It seemed that every wall of resistance I put up, every jab and barb, was melted by him. It really was an uncanny ability of his. Disarming.
"Hey, it's OK, though. I know that you are, and you don't have to pretend you aren't."
I said nothing.
He leaned back in his chair and gazed at the ceiling.
"Why do people walk around this earth so tightly wound up? Why does everyone censor themselves and pretend not to want what they really want? There's something I admire about people who can surrender. Who have the guts to be themselves. People who can look at something bigger than them and just let go, just release into it, you know?"
I did know. It was something, in fact, that I admired in him. Suddenly, all the tales of his exploits and orgies in the media were falling into place. Maybe Kai wasn't so bad.
"Maybe it's just my ego, but I'm convinced I could get you to open up, too. To me," he said, completely unguarded.
He extended one bare foot in my direction, and we both watched as he gently let his toes graze the edge of my ankle and then rest on the floor again, right in the empty space between my feet.
"Let's try an experiment, ok? I'm going to compliment you and try to make you feel good, and you're going to not be a big ol' bitch about it."
We both laughed.
"No seriously. No arguing back. No smart-ass comments. You just sit there, and enjoy it, ok?"
"Ok," I said, already way, way out of my comfort zone.
"Ok."
The fire crackled quietly.
"You have very, very pretty hands, and your hair is really sexy," he said.
I didn't know whether to laugh or squirm and hide under the seat. He was right; I was completely incapable of receiving any sort of compliment.
"I like how little your body is. You have such dainty wrists and arms, they're really pretty..."
I opened my mouth to speak but he jumped in.
"Uh uh uh! Don't argue! Just enjoy it. Doesn't it feel good, to be told that you're pretty?'
I felt like I had turned the most obvious shade of school girl pink and would die of embarrassment any second now.
He leaned back in his chair again, looking off towards the fire. "I think this world would be a very different place if people weren't so afraid of pleasure. Of pushing themselves to see what they're really capable of."
"Ha!" I interjected, "Tom Hood, the philosopher, fancy."
He shot me a cold look.
"So what if I am? Is that bad? Maybe it seems cheesy to you, but I don't want to hide behind make-believe barriers, too afraid to feel anything."
It occurred to me that he was probably slightly drunk. It also occurred to me that I didn't care. At all. I wanted to be persuaded by this strange argument. I wanted to go along with it. I had this vague notion that if I just blurted out how meeting him here, like this, was the single most thrilling moment of my life, that he would judge me, that my excitement would seem unsophisticated, that we would withdraw everything and I would be humiliated.
"I'm attracted to you," I said and braced myself. He looked at me with a bright face.
"I'm attracted to you too" he replied, quickly.
The fire crackled on, oblivious to this new change in dynamic. I hadn't had a single sip to drink but felt myself intoxicated nonetheless. By him. By the thrilling thought of myself and what I was capable of right now, in this moment. Surely life doesn't really work this way? Surely people can't go around blindly declaring one another hot and boning in the streets? If it was such a good idea to be this "open" why didn't everybody do it?
"I'm wondering if you're going to kiss me," I said at last, feeling somehow that narrating my own thoughts felt less intimidating than baldly saying what I wanted, outright.
He smiled.
"Take off your clothes," he said.
What?
"Trust me," he said to my shocked expression.
"But I..."
"No! Just stop thinking for a moment. No excuses. Just listen to me. Do you trust me? Or are you going to turn around and run away from me again?"
"Yes bu--"
"Do you trust me?"
"Yes," I breathed quietly, sealing my fate.
"Good. Then take off your clothes."
I already felt half way naked as it was. I stood up gingerly, hands shaking.
"It's just that I've neve--"
"Did I tell you that you could speak?" he said, throwing a playful look at me.
I smiled.
With fingers that felt like they didn't even belong to me, I awkwardly peeled off my blouse, raising it over my head, feeling that the brief moment my face was hooded by the fabric was insanely dangerous, exposing me completely to him. I never wore a bra; my two breasts stared back at him like two sleepy creatures who had been pulled from their bed. He said nothing, only drank up the sight of me with a very serious look on his face. His gaze urged me on. I unbuttoned the top of my skirt and felt the scratchy fabric drop to the floor. This, along with the shoes I had kicked off, was tossed aside and left me with only my panties, which I wriggled off all at once, almost relieved to be fully naked now, entirely nude in front of him.
"There. Now you're at your most powerful," he said.
I was nearly overwhelmed with my own nakedness, and the shock of feeling the plain air rushing over every part of me, unprotected.
"Sit down," he said.
I sat down.
"Spread your legs for me."
I paused, then slowly lifted one and then the other leg, placing each on the arm rest of the chair, relishing the delicious agony of having the most intimate part of my body exposed to him in this way.
"Good," he said, and moved forward off of his own chair, dropping to his knees just a few feet from me.
"Wider," he continued, and I felt an instant twinge between my legs. I obeyed, stretching my legs further out, pushing my crotch even closer to his now-lowered head.
He placed one broad hand on my inner thigh, and with the other, he hovered unsure fingertips over the skin there, the delicate touches sending hard shivers all up my spine. He traced a gentle line upwards and to my bellybutton, something so soft, so fleeting and tender, I couldn't help but hold my breath.
His face was a blend of awe and utter concentration, as though something of unimaginable value had been placed before him, but only for a moment, and if he should make even a single wrong move it would flutter off instantly. A slight smile was at the corner of his mouth, waiting there, and I found my hands rising of their own accord and finding their own way to the top of his head. His hair was so silky.
I had never had a man look at me like this.
Ever.
Shifting closer to me, he lifted his glance to me, releasing that little quivering corner of his mouth into a full, warm smile. I blushed and smiled back. He was intoxicating. I had yearned for that look the moment I saw him lavishing it on Kai. Fuck. Kai. How many other women were there anyway? My body grew a little colder. And how many had been lured here this same way?
"You're beautiful," he said.
"I bet you say that to all the girls," I blurted, instantly breaking the spell and making the smile fall completely off his face.
He frowned and leaned back, then looked away, as though thinking.
I suddenly felt stupid. Exposed. I hated this. So, he wasn't denying it, then? Why was he irritated - that I was on to him?
The warm intoxicated feeling was rapidly floating away; I snapped my legs shut and sat up, a little dazed.
"It's late. We should probably get some sleep," he said and swiftly rose to his feet.
"Yeah, I should get going."
He shot another hard look at me.
"You want to go? Just stay here."
My face burned. As always, I was the idiot. Something clicked in me and I saw only an insult hanging in the air, the suggestion that he thought I was "easy", that I was just another stupid slut he could conquer. Did he think I was buying any of this? That he wasn't using the same tired tricks on me he had used on every able-bodied woman this side of the Atlantic? I should have seen it earlier. Nothing had changed, I guess. I was still my desperate 16-year-old self who turned to stupid-jelly at the merest whiff of attention from a man, and now here I was, compromised beyond belief and—
"You're really petrified of sex, aren't you?" he said, his demeanor seeming to harden with each passing moment.
"Petrified? Nope. But I know when I'm being strung along. I'm not one of your little groupies, sorry," I spat.
"No, you're really not," he said, a little sadly.
I searched his face, desperate to find something there. Would he rush in and try to placate me? Tell me I was wrong and that he wanted nothing more than for me to trust him? What kind of a relationship could two people like us have, anyway? It would be a one in a billion chance, an airheaded Cinderella story. Unbelievable. Did I really expect that he would date me, an awkward idiot earning 25k a year? My shoes were scuffed second hand heels I had snatched from Goodwill, a $10 throwaway of some rich girl's who had the life I really wanted. I was a hack. I had nothing but an old laptop that needed updates and a kitchen drawer filled with mismatched spoons and a sick cat and—
"It was my fault. I don't know why I pushed you. I'm sorry. I don't want you to do anything you don't want to."
My head hurt. I felt wounded, exhausted.
Without feeling myself doing it, I found my body leaving the room, and before I knew it I was outside in the chill, unwelcoming air. What was I expecting, anyway? Had I just blown it? But what would someone like Tom Hood, the Tom Hood, want from me? I came to this town to start a new life, one where I was in control, where I was worth something. I stood up a little taller. No, it was all too predictable. I wasn't going to be sweet-talked by a billionaire with an 8-inch cock and the smile of a salesman.
I was better than that.
And I wanted him to think I was better than that, too.

Chapter Nine

The next day, I was in a dark mood. Money and power did weird things to people. And now, it was doing weird things to me.
On one side of the argument was my old friend Cassie, telling me matter-of-factly over cappuccinos that in this town, there was no getting around it, you simply had to sleep with a few important people here and there if you cared about your career. Men are just dogs, especially the rich ones, you see.
And what about the tar sands? What about all the nasty rumors? How could I trust someone who was so used to getting his way all the time, so used to simply buying whatever he wanted? What could I ever be to such a person but an object, something to collect and put in the cabinet along with all the other naïve girls?
But on the other hand...
I sat at my desk, sulky and miserable, dwelling on that tender look on his face as he stared up at me. At that moment, he seemed like nothing else in this world but a warm, loving, happy being who was devoted to nothing but my pleasure. And I believed him. Ah fuck. It wasn't that his promises didn't appeal, that I didn't completely buy into this just let go and trust me spiel. I did. I really did. I just hated that I did. And I hated that now, on this dull Friday morning, I was on my own again, ego bruised somehow, wishing heartily that I wasn't an idiot and had had the guts to just...
Penelope would want my final draft soon for the Saturday edition. I stared for a long while at two separate documents in front of me. One: a subtle, half-praising, generous account of the hidden Tom Hood, the man that nobody knew about, the complex mind behind the fame... the other: a damning snark piece, delivering blow after blow of cutting criticism, snippy one liners, all dripping with the implication that not only was Tom Hood as bad as he was portrayed in the media, he was even worse.
So, which was he?
And how could I, a 23-year-old junior writer, be the one to decide? He had sniped the weakest link in our company on purpose, had tried to sleep with her and bullshit his way to a flattering piece ...for what? Ego? For fun?
The thought made me shudder.
I quickly tapped out an email and sent the second article to Penelope.
Fuck him.

Chapter Ten

"I forgive you. Don't worry about it. I understand why you did it," he said.
I sat opposite him, prickling. This wasn't the reaction I was expecting, true. By now, the article had been printed and was being read by thousands all over the country.
It wasn't good.
But if I was being honest, I had in the back of my mind that I had hoped he would summon me again. Be angry, even. I wanted to look him in the face, with my clothes on, and tell him that no matter how rich he was, or how powerful, there were just some things in life he couldn't have.
I had blustered into his house, again, this time shaking with my newfound arrogance and the conviction that I was right. Not just right, but that I had seen through a very transparent bit of manipulation on his part, and now I would have my chance to gloat a little. I felt bad. Sure. I wasn't a monster. There was something so sweet and open in his face the last time we had met, something so touching and trusting in his plea for people to be open with each other ...too bad it was complete bullshit. He didn't have to know that I was still crushing on him, still a little bewitched by that moment by the fire.
"I did it because it's the truth. I never agreed to write a promotional piece," I said.
We were in yet another room of the grand house, an airy terrace room filled with palms and what I guess rich people think counts as low-key. I had always known that I would find my way from rags to riches one day ...just, not like this.
"Do you really believe that? Do you really believe everything you wrote about me?"
I was totally taken aback by how unguarded he seemed. I had expected him to be vengeful, and to scoff at me or even threaten me with legal action ...anything but this, really. Instead, he looked hurt, his broad frame crumpling a little in the wicker chair. I looked out the window, saying nothing.
"I guess I misunderstood you. I've been going on and on about how you should trust me but honestly, maybe I shouldn't have."
It had never occurred to me that he was struggling to trust me. That he had any vulnerabilities at all, actually. Some of my indignation was beginning to feel a bit much.
He looked out the window, too, face contorting a little.
"I've been reading your pieces for a long time. Before you wrote for that stupid rag, too. That piece about Syria you wrote last year? I loved that."
How did he get a hold of that?
"I thought that you were ...that you would understand, that you would write something that... I don't know. I'm not good with words. But you are. You know what it's like to come from nothing."
Here he looked at me again, imploringly. What on earth could he know about me?
There was a long silence.
"Do you remember that convenience store on the corner of Charles and 28th? That one that had that weird cigarette lighter on a string on the outside?" he blurted all at once.
"What?"
"I think it was Patak's or Patel's or something. You must have gone there loads," he continued.
It was Patak's Supermarket. I remembered it well. It was a permanent landmark of my long-forgotten childhood, from a time in my life that I had gleefully forgotten, pretending it didn't exist.
"How do you know about that?" I said quietly. "Oh my God, have you been snooping on me or...?"
My head was spinning. Things were taking a decidedly unexpected turn.
"What? No way. I mean, I could if I wanted to. But no," he said, returning his gaze to the window, an unreadable expression on his face.
He opened his mouth to speak, then closed it again. I felt like shit. Why had I published that trash about him? What had he done, really, to deserve it? Was I so broken? So badly mistrustful? What was wrong with me anyway?
"I grew up in the same town as you," he said eventually.
"What? In Little Falls? No way." This was bizarre.
"Yeah. We went to the same school actually."
"That's ...not possible. That was a tiny school, there was no Tom Hood there..."
"Yeah there wasn't, I changed my name when I was 18."
My mind raced, trying to put everything together.
"Phillip Hellman. You probably won't remember me. But I remember you."
"But ...but your father? You inherited all that money--"
He sat up and began speaking clearly, like he was reciting lines, or giving a statement at a police station.
"My father died when I was a baby. I created all the other stories. On purpose. It was deliberate. But none of it's true. I never inherited a cent, not from anyone. I killed a man, when I was 16, and went into juvenile detention for a year and a half. I ran over him with my car by accident, they wanted to try me as an adult but they didn't, thank god. It was the most awful time in my life. I ran away, I reinvented myself. I made a lot of mistakes. Turns out, I'm good at making money, too..."
He looked at me with a question in his eyes. I couldn't believe what I was hearing. He went on.
"And so I did that. I forgot about my past, and I did well for myself. Really well. The rest you already know, I guess."
We sat in silence for a moment.
"Who else knows about this?" I asked eventually.
"Nobody. My mother knew, but she passed a few years ago. Nobody else knows. Well, you do, now. I'm tired, to be honest. I actually found you by accident - long story - but I remembered you from school. You were a few years below me. It seemed like an amazing coincidence, that you had moved here, too. That you wrote about me. It was like ...like ..."
"Like a one in a billion chance," I said.
"Yup," he breathed.
We both took the next few minutes to blush and smile at each other like idiots. Everything was different. I didn't know what next to say.
"Do you remember that awful piece of shit sports shed next to Mrs. Campbell's class? The one everyone used to smoke in?"
"Yes!" he laughed, and clapped his hands together, "Oh my god yes! It was full of cockroaches, I remember. Did you have Mrs. Campbell? I heard she married a Puerto Rican guy eventually."
"Yes, I heard about that too! So weird."
His face had softened. Tom Hood had vanished. Now, there was someone else in front of me entirely. The effect was thrilling.
We spent the next hour - or was it many hours? - reminiscing about that shitty old school, and the people from Little Falls, and all the little snips of gossip we could both remember. I had only a dim memory of him - he had been a quiet, unassuming boy with mousy hair and good grades, but he had slipped under my radar for the most part.
"Like you were any better!" he laughed, "You were quite the dork, I remember it clearly," he said and we both giggled.
Silence.
"Tom ...Tom, I'm so sorry."
He reached over and grabbed my hand in response, saying nothing. I felt in this gesture his complete and easy forgiveness, but I was still wracked with guilt at the horrible things I had said about him.
"No, really, I was just ... I was afraid. I was scared you were just using me."
"I know," he said. We both looked at my hand in his.
All at once, I thought about his naked body again. This time, I felt like I could see right through, to the very bottom of the pictures I had seen, of the entire illusion he had crafted. I saw someone like myself, someone who had desperately erected a façade all around them.
I stared back into his eyes and found, at last, what I had been looking for during the last few days. It was there all at once, the same simple openness, only this time I felt nothing to prevent me from slipping and surrendering into it completely. I looked at him, with a gaze filled with yearning and vulnerability. We both knew, at that moment, that there was nothing to hold us back anymore. My entire body pulsed with the thought.
"Don't leave," he said, "We have all day."
It was true.
The whole weekend spanned in front of us, like a red carpet, and it was nothing but me and this man, and his beautiful body. I was nervous, but this time my nerves seemed only to make things more delicious.
He leaned in, and kissed me. Slowly, meltingly. I had learned so much about him, it seemed, and now it was only natural that I explored him physically, too. My body ached with wanting to share myself. I kissed back, my tongue seeking him out, this strange man, this strong man.
I threw my head back, and he continued his kiss down onto my jaw, and then down onto my exposed neck, planting a hot string of soft kisses all the way down, then kissing the top of my breasts. I was breathing more heavily, my lungs hungrily taking in deep breaths to steady my growing sense of intoxication. He was now pressing the full weight of his body against mine, and the urgent insistence of his muscles made me limp and yielding, wanting nothing but to melt in his arms.
Seeming to sense this, he circled his big arms round me and held me tightly, breathing and kissing every piece of my exposed skin. I was in a blissful reverie, completely lost in the flow of kisses and breath, when he pressed hard against my hips, the obvious length of his cock suggesting more. I moaned, thrilled at what was happening to me, that soon there would be nothing between out bodies, keeping us apart. I felt drunk.
"You're beautiful," he said and the utterance felt like it nearly made me come right there and then. He smiled at the effect this had on me, pulling back a moment to take in my raptured expression.
"You are beautiful. You deserve pleasure. I want to give it to you. I'm so glad you stayed..."
This last part of his sentence disappeared as I kissed him hungrily, ready to assent to everything.
In an instant, he was tearing away at my shirt and yanking off my jeans, and I complied, wriggling out of them as fast as I could, then turning to him to remove every last shred of clothing from his tight, masculine body.
We surveyed one another, happy for more and more, relishing that there were still so many more layers to peel away, to explore. I pressed the full length of my body against his, surprised at how hot and responsive his skin was. I got it, just then. He was right. Why were people so afraid of what they wanted? Of being vulnerable? What was so threatening about this man's glorious body against mine, breathing and alive and hot with all kinds of unspoken appetites and desires? I wanted to know all of them. I wanted to satisfy all of them.
His cock was fully hard, and it easily slipped in the little hollow between my legs. I held it there with my thighs, knowing that he could he feel how aroused I was becoming, how I was literally melting on him. We kissed each other hungrily, pawing and grabbing at each other's flesh with playful, easy urgency. We had both collapsed to the floor, conscious of nothing but one another, and the thrill of what our bodies could do to one another.
I glanced down at his cock, his soft mouth kissing me all over my neck and shoulders as I did so. I had never been with anyone with anything remotely as big as that before (who was I kidding, I hadn't been with many people, period) and I was spellbound, reaching out for it almost instinctively. He pulled back and looked down at me cradling it in my hands, smiling.
"You like that?" he asked, and in response I shifted my weight down, deciding that what I wanted was to have it in my mouth.
He grinned and threw his head back, the veins in his taut belly pulsing a little as I went to suck him.
The taste was warm, and salty. His skin was surprisingly thin and soft, and I delicately placed my hands on either side of his thick shaft, admiring how utterly hot he looked. He was like a god, and I wanted to make an offering to him, right here, with my mouth. I traced the tip of my tongue up the length and twirled it teasingly over the tip, thrilled to discover a small, salty bead of moisture there, which I happily gobbled up. I kissed the head lovingly, planting two tender lips on him, then gradually opening and letting him move into my mouth, one delicious inch at a time. I pulled back again, leaving a wet trail, hearing him groan in appreciation. He placed one cautious, shaking hand on my head, and with an almost imperceptible tug pulled me down again. I loved that he loved it. I obliged and took him in again, this time to the edge of what I could physically manage. I held him there, throbbing inside my mouth, his strong frame reduced to shudders as he clutched at fistfuls of my hair.
Holding him inside, I circled and flicked my tongue over every part of him, enjoying how he responded by growing harder, so I could almost feel the blood throbbing through him. I found a slow rhythm and began to suck him, up and down, loving the scent of him, feeling the muscles in his thighs and back twitching in response to the movements of my tongue. He was in as far as he could go, and I wanted more still. He placed both his hands on my head and, with more aggression, began to pump my head onto him, occasionally letting out gruff whimpers to the top of my head.
I pulled away and stared hard into his eyes, feeling a simple joy at how wonderful it was to please him, to turn him on, to suck his fat dick until he moaned and rolled his head back in ecstasy. I kissed him again, deeply and passionately, and with my hand I guided his beautiful cock into me, not wanting to waste another second. My entire body was almost delirious with wanting him, and when the moment came he sunk the full length of it into me, taking away my breath completely.
"Oh my god," I muttered to the warm crook of his neck. "Oh my god..." and there really was nothing else to say. I felt almost numb with pleasure, overwhelmed by the heft of this amazing piece of his anatomy somehow deep, deep within me, bringing our bodies even closer than I thought they could be. He held me, still, for a long moment; nothing moved except for my aching pussy tightening and releasing around him, my body happily surprised at these new dimensions; I smiled, pleased that I could accommodate this part of him, that he was so close to me now.
We fucked. Slowly. Easily.
He curled his muscular back to bring the full length of his cock into my body, then curled away again, and with each thrust I arched to meet him again. He ran his big, smooth hands up and down my back, his lips and tongue delivering hurried affection all over my shoulders, my breasts, my neck. I looked down to see our two soft bellies bumping against each other, his wide dick linking them both, pulling me back again and again along its slick, glistening length. It was so fucking hot I nearly screamed.
Tearing his lips away from my skin, he followed my gaze and looked down as well, then stroked his fingers over my lower belly, planting the pad of his thumb against my clit and stroking me. These twin sensations were glorious: the heavy, almost painful heft of his cock fucking me down below, and the gentle, delicate strokes of his careful fingers caressing me up above. I felt him pushing me closer and closer to the slippery edge of a full orgasm, but one I wasn't ready for yet - I wanted to stay here forever, hovering on this delicious apex with him.
"I want to make you come," he whispered into my ear, and before I could respond he had jumped up and grabbed me hard around the waist, spinning me around so that I faced away from him, my two plump ass cheeks squashing against his midriff.
"I don't want to hold back with you anymore," he said to my sweat coated back and neck.
"Then don't..." I said, anchoring myself against the cushions on the seat I had sat on only a few hours ago, my anger and resistance seemingly a universe away now. Who knew that his body could be such a source of pleasure? That mine knew how to open so easily to his, almost as if by instinct?
I leant back and threw my ass into the air, arching so that my pussy was open, raw and utterly at his mercy.
"Don't hold back..." I said again as I felt his gleeful hands squeezing my butt cheeks.
With one single, almost frictionless slide into me, he pinned his large body against mine, holding my hips firmly to him. He drew back and plunged into me, the full length of his cock hitting even deeper, the new angle opening up new places in my body, new places that I wanted him to fuck just as mercilessly.
I cried out, my entire body wracked with waves of pleasure and pain. I leant back further into him, wanting more, and he responded with another savage thrust, banging his hips into mine, every atom of my pussy seeming to sing. Deep in me, he seemed to find that old thread of pleasure again, and before I knew it he had eased me closer to my orgasm again. He was fucking me harder now, pounding into me relentlessly, our bodies slapping hard together, my poor wet body quivering and pliant beneath his.
"Spread your legs wider," he said. I obeyed, and he ploughed even deeper into me still, causing me to buck and cry out. With each angry thrust, he tore deeper into me, and I could do nothing but lean further into, offering up my body to him.
"More. Show me your ass," he said and I reached back, pulling my butt cheeks apart, relishing how utterly filthy this felt.
"Oh fuck..." he mumbled, and I felt him pause as he shuddered a little, gathering himself. I giggled and wiggled against him, trying to push him over the edge. He growled and gripped my hips hard to stop me. His breath was so hard and ragged his entire chest was rising and falling, only one or two little shivers betraying how close he was to coming.
He pulled out of me, the head of his wet cock bobbing and slapping against my exhausted thighs. I spun around under him and gazed up at his face; he stood there for a moment, eyes half closed, his full, hard body heaving and beaded with sweat, his dick towering over me. My entire body was flushed with happiness.
"You turn me on so much," I said, writhing underneath him, wanting it back in me again.
He opened his eyes and smiled down at me.
"Oh yeah? I want you to play with yourself."
I cocked my head to the side and flashed a flirty smile at him. I glided both hands down over my breasts, over my hips and back in over my stomach, then traced one curious hand down to my wide open slit, sending one finger inside. As I arched back, I saw the smile on his face drift softly off as a new, more intense expression come over his features; it was that same, hyper-focused look he had given me that first night. Nothing existed for him at that moment except the tiniest movements of my fingers, and for me, seeing myself reflected in his hungry gaze, wanting to turn him on as much as he was turning me on.
I rocked my hips rhythmically against my fingers, having no trouble bringing my already swollen clit to a state of frenzy again. I was so unbelievably tense with pleasure that my entire pussy was spread wide and open, but I brought my knees even closer to my torso to open up even further - I didn't want him to miss a single thing. I continued circling my clit as much as I could manage, breathing jagged and shuddering with the effort of avoiding coming.
"Are you ready to come?" he asked. His cock was in his hand, and he was stroking it slowly, pointedly.
I nodded.
"I want to feel you come," he said.
He released his hand and introduced the head of his cock to me again, and even though he had fucked me senseless only a moment ago, the sensation was enough to send my whole body into fresh spasms of pleasure again. I was dangerously close to coming. I reached my hands out and put them against his stomach, stopping him from going any further.
"Woah! Careful! I'm really... close," I said, gasping.
The room spun around me. I felt that a single tiny movement from him would send me hurtling over the edge.
He waited, tip inside me, and breathed heavily while I tried to compose myself again, then slowly removed my hands, ready for more. Locking his eyes with mine, he slowly, slowly pressed another inch of his beautiful cock into my poor, ravaged body. I rushed right up to the precipice again, shivering violently to hold my body back from a luscious orgasm. No. I wanted to have all of him in me, as deep as he would go, before I would allow myself to come...
"More?" he asked, and I nodded.
I was given another inch, and with a violent twitch I yanked myself back from the edge again, laughing at how insanely sensitive I had become to him, to his hard body nudging me closer and closer and closer.
"Oh fuck, I can't take it ...please ..."
He smiled, relishing what a quivering mess I had become, knowing how he could collapse this entire moment with just a single hard stroke.
"You want it...?"
"Fuck yes!" I screamed, clutching at the carpet in fists.
In one smooth, confident thrust, he drove the rest of his cock into me, slamming the line of soft brown hairs on his stomach right up against my body. I cried out and threw my head back, letting the peak of a massive wave crush over my body, radiating out from the hot center in my core where he was, driving me into hot, wet spasms that my aching pussy lavished over him. He remained hard inside me, motionless, and when I had fallen into the deep, delicious pool of my first orgasm, I felt him stirring me up again, pulling another one out of me. I couldn't believe it. I barely noticed that he had both of his fists clenched tightly around my wrists, and was pinning me firmly to the floor, his entire weight over my bucking, twitching body.
"Tom ...oh god," I began and then the second orgasm hit me, this time broader, looser than the first. I couldn't help but to break out into giggles. I looked up to see a bright expression of pure joy on his face, his eyes seeming to want to penetrate mine just as deeply as his body was. He smiled, and with a thrill, I felt my body collect and swell again for yet another, bone-shattering orgasm.
My body felt so on fire by this point, so loose and free, so utterly his, that this third wave found absolutely no resistance. This time, I could scarcely make a peep as I slammed my eyes shut and let the sensations run through me, yet again. My body had become a vortex of wet, swirling pleasure, and at the center was Tom, beautiful Tom, tender-eyed, hard-bodied Tom, hung like a fucking donkey.
My body still twitching and writhing, I reached out towards him and took him in my mouth again. His dick was soaked from fucking me, but I quickly lapped this off, taking him in as deep as he would go, thrilled at the thought of having him enter me everywhere.
"Your turn," I said to his crotch, and stroked it playfully against my cheeks.
"Remember, don't hold back..." I added, planting both of my hands on his butt.
I heard a quiet murmur of assent; he gripped my head and began almost immediately fucking my mouth, savagely, driving himself right to the end of my throat. It easily reached to the back of my mouth and beyond, and I gagged, choking, my lips shaking around the fat base of it.
"You're so fucking beautiful," he said again, and this time, it was almost a plea; I could hear in his voice how close he was. I pulled him further into my hot throat, wanting all of him, as far as he would go, loving how good it felt to be filled and violated in this way.
I gagged once more, long strings of dribble forming on my lower lip, and one hot tear growing on my lower lashes. I wanted to do this with him always. I squeezed his ass in my hands, urging him to release and shoot his cum into me. The hands pulled hard on bunches of my hair; he thrust once, twice into my mouth and then he burst into spurt after spurt of hot sticky liquid.
I held him in my mouth, wanting to catch every last drop, proud at having eked out so much pleasure from this man, this man who had always seemed so strange to me, yet so familiar. He growled and I felt his entire body shuddering as he emptied himself completely onto my tongue; after a moment his spent cock slid out, bouncing against his hips.
His gripping hands had turned into gentle, searching caresses; as he hugged my head close I showered his softening cock with kisses, nestling him back to his senses. He groaned loudly and flung himself back onto the floor, pulling me down with him. I landed on his chest and clung there, heart still beating in my ears and the echoes of my trio of orgasms still fresh in my mind, and in my body.
I had never been so thoroughly fucked in all my life. I felt like the happiest girl in the world.
As I traced a shaking finger over his chest, I realized that I could never tire of him, of his body, of this. I wanted him to do that to me again and again and again...

Chapter Eleven

And he did.
It was a one in a billion chance that this, any of this would have happened, and to someone like me no doubt ...but it did happen.
And once I had gotten my mind around the fact, once I had relaxed into the idea, I was no longer surprised any more, by anything that we did together. I guess even the improbable happens once in a while, right?
Tom spent the most of the next year trying to convince me that I wasn't in some fantastical dream, and this was my life now, and his, and that it was OK to let go, to be happy.
And I resisted it at first. And we'd argue it out, and we'd fuck, long, passionate evenings in that same fireplace-ed room, hashing out our disagreements. He was one moment the cocky celebrity alpha male I had written about all those months ago, the next moment a playful, sweet boy from my hometown, one who knew every little alleyway of my past, every untouched spot on my body.
He was gentle with me, and I him, and we were unthinkably rough with one another, both desperate to see how close we could get, how many layers we could peel off, what was really underneath all that flesh we pawed at so hungrily. And we went even deeper still.
There was money, of course, loads of it. Life became easy in ways that made me nervous, suspicious even. But there was nothing Tom's firm gaze, firmer voice and unbelievably hard cock couldn't convince me of. I let go ...and I kept letting go. I let my mind soften with him, and my body yielded, first a little bit, and then more and more, until easing into the warmth of his big body felt like the easiest thing in the world.
"Haha! Look at this one. Oh, you'll love this," he said.
He had a new issue of Cache spread out on his lap, and we were both in its pages, highly pixelated and walking quickly out of a restaurant with the headline PREGNANT stamped on my head. He held up the pages to me and I laughed, nearly spilling my drink. It was almost a year since I left Cache, since Penelope had left, and Clara had taken over. Like I said, even the unimaginable can happen sometimes.
"Should I call them up and tell them you'd just eaten an extra large burrito that day? That'll break their hearts I'm sure," he said, returning his gaze to the page. I playfully threw a sock at him.
"Shut up. I'm simply devastated, don't you know. There are rumors your eye is straying, of course. Ah, my poor playboy husband, what is he good for?" I said, pretending to swoon.
"Good for? I buy you burritos, don't I?" he laughed.
"Can't argue with you there."
He put the magazine down.
"I want you again," he said.
I looked at him. He had that same look on his face, the one I was becoming very familiar with. He was like an adorable golden retriever puppy, only with a six-pack and a dirty mind.
"Again?" I laughed. It would be the third time this morning.
He sauntered over, cradling my head in his hands and kissing me softly.
"Unless you're feeling too sore..."
I kissed him back, hard, and pulled him closer to me. I guided his hands over my body, letting his fingers rest on the spot where only a few hours ago he had pounded me relentlessly.
One look from me told him what he wanted to know, and he pulled off my shirt, kissing each of my breasts, saying "I love you" as though he only wanted them to hear and not me.
"I love you, too," I responded and slipped my fingers through his hair.
People really do go around this world closed off from each other, I thought. He was my one in a billion, but I was convinced now that with an open heart, anything was possible.
Anything at all.

Chapter Twelve

I'm standing calmly, and I take a slow, disinterested sip of champagne. My hair is longer now, and has grown down to my lower back, where it grazes the top of my black suspenders. I'm wearing my favorite leather thigh highs, the ones with spike heels and tiny red chains around the ankle, plus a long, long string of real pearls that falls down between my bare breasts and to my belly button.
I'm tipsy, but not overly so.
For a moment, I have stepped back from the fray, standing apart from the mass of bodies in front of me, some dancing, some breaking off into slower moving groups of two or three, some already heavily twisted into each other... patches of light catch on their naked bodies.
He is at the center, and as he makes eye contact with me, a deep, knowing glance erupts on his face. He smiles a small, private smile. I return one of my own. The music is good tonight, very good, and I let my head fall back a little as I enjoy it, enjoying also the summer air on my half-naked body, and the cold, wet crystal glass against my fingertips, of the near-bursting perfection of this moment, seemingly held in suspension all around me. The yacht is far from the shore now, floating in inky blackness, only the lapping of water reminding us that we're still technically on planet earth. A familiar cry breaks me out of my daydreaming.
The woman in front of me is being fucked to within an inch of her life.
Her entire face is flushed red, the color extending far down onto her chest and to her two swollen nipples. She's writhing like something possessed, as though she's about to combust into flames at any second.
"She won't come until I tell her she can," says her tormentor to me. He flicks a sweat-damp fringe from his face and pummels into her with more urgency.
"What do you think - should we let her come?" he says through strained breath, flashing deep, laughing brown eyes in my direction.
I smile.
A year ago, I had only seen this man in pixelated images. He had been nothing more than ink on a newspaper for me and now ...now he was sweaty and deep in a yelping woman who seemed to be melting before our very eyes.
"Well...?" he asks again.
Kai looks beseechingly into my eyes, her hair damp and disheveled and her lovely face contorting with pleasure.
"No, fuck her a little more" I say, and smile.
I lock my eyes with hers, savoring that sweet moment, and blow her a little kiss. It's a bit mean, sure, but I'll make it up to her later.

- THE END -

* * *

Surrender - A Bad Boy Romance

Exhibit A: Blue and White Cotton

On the day I lost my virginity, I also lost my first pair of knickers.
A tired baby blue and white number I had had since High School, it wasn't exactly a vision of sexiness, but I mourned it all the same. It had an obnoxious Snoopy print on the crotch from the days I thought that kind of thing was cute. But I was sadder to see it go, somehow, than I was to be rid of my virginity. My friends spoke about theirs as though virginity was a tangible thing, a precious, squidgy, lace-and-cotton thing that they were holding onto and waiting for that special day to fling it at a guy on a stage, or wrap up in white lace and deliver to some man wearing an obedient smile and a rented tux.
But me? I just wanted to be done with it already. I wanted to be fucked. I sat in my first year law lectures and zoned out, practicing the words in my mind, trying them on for size. Fuck me I said in my imagination, to an imaginary boyfriend who conveniently had no opinions. I want you to fuck me I would say, which seemed so scandalous on its own that I seldom bothered to flesh out the rest of the fantasy. My idea of sex had been badly pieced together from Cosmo sex articles and my own embellishments on stories I had heard from a handful of friends. In these classroom daydreams, I was a vixen wearing leather, or a Hot Babe in Victoria's Secret with beach ball boobs and a drum-tight belly.
But on the day I actually lost my virginity ...I was neither of these women. I was wearing my blue and white Snoopy knickers, and a cotton dress, and my hair twirled up in a messy bun. Looking back, I can see how this might not have been the crime I thought it was, but at the time I felt myself to be an awkward mix of hormones and inexperience, and that it must be more or less obvious to every male within a 5-mile radius.
"Christy, stop all that studying would you? You're making me look bad." My friend Tara had blustered into our dorm room, and was furiously putting on mascara and changing her shoes at the same time, getting ready to go out. I grumbled something back but she stared at me. "I've got it! You should come with me. There will be boys there, but I think we can manage without adult supervision, can't we?" she said, laughing and wiggling her eyebrows at me.
Twenty minutes later we were in a pretty suburban house crammed full with every flavor of teenage rebellion - somehow I had already finished one beer and mysteriously had another in my hand. Perhaps adults were no less awkward than teenagers, but just tipsy more often? I was enjoying myself, I realized, someway through the second (or third?) beer. I wanted to show Tara that I could have fun, too. I wasn't some predictable nerd who studied too much. In fact I--
"Your life line is like, really long."
A scruffy boy sat opposite me on the couch, my hand in his hand, examining the lines on it almost as hard as I did my law text books. He was cute, in a scruffy kind of way. Had I seen him around campus? It was hard to tell. There were probably a million scruffy boys just like him enrolled in classes in any one year.
"That means you're going to have, like, a long life, you know?" he said.
It was getting later, the music was getting louder, our friends were getting drunker. I had read somewhere that pretending to read a girl's palm was a great excuse to touch her ...and hit on her. My head buzzed a little. Why not now? Why not him?
"You also have a really deep love line, which means..."
Here he locked his soft brown eyes with mine, smiling shyly at me. He flicked his eyes back to my palm, smiled and stroked my fingertips with his. I watched a small vein pulse in his neck. I had rehearsed tons of imaginary conversations with imaginary boys in imaginary situations just like these. In my own mind, I was like a female James Bond, unflappable, never more than a few seconds away from a devastatingly witty comeback. It was clear to me all at once, though, that James Bond probably wasn't ever as drunk as I currently was. Ok, Christy. It was now or never.
I took a deep breath. "I want you to fuck me," I said. The room buzzed.
Well, there it was. I said it recklessly, easily, but once the words were out there, hanging in the air between us, I realized that I kind of, maybe, might actually mean it. He immediately stopped stroking my hand. My cheeks burned. Oh shit oh shit what have I just said? What if he thinks I'm an idiot? Oh shit. We locked eyes again. It was something even more terrifying: he was grinning.
"Well, that was awkward!" he said, leaning back into his chair and laughing. I felt like I wanted the ground to swallow me whole. I flushed a deep red. He tossed a shaggy brown fringe out of his eyes and stood up tall.
"But yeah, nice and blunt. I uh, I like it." He extended his hand and helped me up. "Come with me" he said, leading me out of the room and through a tangled clump of people who were standing around, drinking, laughing, being completely oblivious to the fact that I was about to...
There they were, being all civilized, fully clothed and polite, meanwhile all this time there was a secret world underneath everything, and I had accessed it easily with the simple, naughty words: I want you to fuck me. It was like abracadabra, but for sex. Turns out, you didn't need witty comebacks at all!
I couldn't believe this was happening to me.
Had I always been this close to it all along, nothing but these words between me and ..."it"? I followed him up some dimly lit stairs, realizing with half-panic that there seemed to be something hot and warm moving down my inner thigh.
In an instant we were in a quiet, dark room, the thumping music of the party below seeming to become more indistinct and fuzzy. He leant against the now closed door, and pulled me closer to him. I was tipsy and fell into the pillow of his scent, nestling into his scruffy brown hair. He was so soft and yielding in some places, so taut and firm in others. Drunk, my mouth easily found his, and without really noticing, he had transformed from a shy, nervous boy into someone more forceful, each of his big hands firmly around waist. I relaxed into him, overcome by the distant memory of soap on his skin and the warmth my hands found underneath his shirt. His body felt so lean and tight under my hands; he seemed strong and animal, like the kind of thing you'd find on an ancient Grecian urn in a museum titled "youth."
"You remind me of a horse," I said. He burst out laughing.
Oh God, oh shit, I'm such an idiot, do I have to be such an idiot all the time?
"Um, ok? Christy, you're a fucking weirdo. But I'll take that as a compliment," he said, smiling cheekily, pulling me firm against his crotch. The ache between my legs was so strong I couldn't help but instinctively move my hips forward to answer his.
"Say it again" he said.
"You're a horse?"
He giggled. "No, stupid. What you said before."
He said this pleadingly, and so quietly it was though he only wanted the nape of my neck to hear. This time it was easier. I rolled my body against the growing bulge in his jeans, pressing my waist against his chest.
"I want you to fuck me," I said again. I seemed to mean it more every time I said it.
And the words were magic. The instant I uttered them his entire demeanor shifted. With a surprising urgency, he unzipped and dropped his trousers. His cock sprung out at me, hot, silkier to touch than I had imagined. His mouth was again on mine, swallowing any chance of me saying something else idiotic. He was kissing me deeper now, cradling the base of my neck in hands that started to seem so much bigger, so much manlier than they had a moment before, on the couch.
He stroked his hand down, under my dress and into the cotton of my soon-to-be-gone-forever knickers.
A single finger hesitated there.
"You're so wet," he said, and before I could respond his fingers were inside me.
I wanted to scream. The entire room faded away, leaving nothing in the universe besides us standing there, his hot breath against my neck and the feeling of my wet body responding to his fingers. My head was spinning. He stroked gently in, gently out again. His breath was growing more urgent. His cock pressed warmly against my belly, waiting; were all of them that big? How on earth was all of that going to fit in?
"Say it again" he said, thrusting his fingers deeper still, pinning me hard against his body.
Something delicious was radiating out from his fingertips, sending shuddering ripples through me. I felt incredibly, almost painfully hot. I leaned further into it, into him.
"Fuck me" I said, and this time it was me that sounded desperate. Pleading even. I wanted it. In my hazy mind, one thing was clear: I needed his dick, all of it, in me. Now. I squirmed closer to him, asking with my body.
"What's that?" he said playfully.
"Fuck me" I said again, adding, "please" realizing for the first time how truly hungry my body could be for something.
And he did. Slowly, the head of his cock pressed me open, and as the length of him slid in, I threw my head back with a gasp, overcome with the sheer weight of it, with how limp and yielding my entire body became around him. He plunged slowly in, till the skin of our bellies met. He held me firmly like this for a moment, still, and I swear I could feel his heart beating through his cock, through me. The dull thudding of the music went on below us, my own heartbeat was pounding in my ears, and I felt my whole world swell and grow with each inhale of his, each exhale of mine. He moved slightly inside me, and I felt my pussy respond.
He was big.
It stung, but with a pain that grew and fanned gently out into my body, becoming a delicious, syrupy thick sensation of heat and pleasure. He moved again inside me, like something beckoning me to play. I moaned and grasped him tightly, rolling my hips and pulling him even deeper in. It was a revelation. I loved this. I wanted more. I wanted to worship this cock. I wanted to go the rest of my life with this glorious thing wedged deep inside me, I wanted this blissful haze to never--
"Christy? Christy, where the fuck are you?"
Tara. A sharp, cold voice coming from downstairs, breaking the spell. I dimly saw the outline of a smile curl across his lips. My skin prickled. Laughing, he gripped my hips hard and began thrusting swiftly into me. I was completely overcome by this change in pace, still unbelieving that my body could accommodate him at all. I cried out, my heart threatening to burst free of my chest. What if Tara found us? Something hot and wet was gathering right in the core of me; he was moving rhythmically now, unrelenting, and a giant quivering bubble was swelling and growing deep inside me, threatening to burst all over him any second.
"I'm ...I'm coming," I squeaked and heard him growl in response; he rammed once more into me, nearly lifting me off the floor, and shooting a hot stream inside me. His entire body seemed to curl around mine, enveloping me. I felt his every shudder and twitch as he sent spurt after spurt of warm cum into me. A hot wash of goosebumps flashed across my skin, and I followed by coming myself, hard, scarcely maintaining my balance, gasping against his chest, now slick with sweat.
"Christy? Christy! We're leaving now with or without you."
I heard Tara's voice coming closer. She sounded belligerent. His cock flopped smoothly out of me, and he tucked it back into his jeans, still wet. I had never been so petrified in my life, yet he looked at me with laughing eyes. "Looks like you'd better get a move on!" he whispered, hurriedly pulling my cotton dress back down around my hips.
"I'm coming, Tara, just a second!" I yelled through the door and kissed him again, fully and deliciously, my body still pulsing from my orgasm.
He jokingly waved me goodbye as I clambered down the stairs, my bun even messier than before. I hitched a ride back to the dorms with Tara and a few others, hoping nobody noticed my flushed cheeks. I sat in the back seat, quiet, my body still aching with a new and exquisite throb between my legs. Like a horse indeed.
Tara was ranting about something or other, and she turned back to me. "Why are you so quiet? You know, there were so many hot guys at that party and I bet you were just hiding off somewhere reading their Reader's Digests or something!"
I felt the slow trickle of still-warm cum ooze out of me. Oops. I had left my blue and white Snoopy knickers somewhere. In the room? Did he have them? Had I left them on the stairs like some kind of skanky Cinderella, only to be found again when my prince came looking for me, crumpled panties in hand? I smiled secretly. Oh well.
Tara shook her head. "Christy, I swear, what you really need is to get laid."


Exhibit B: Black and Lacy

Quite some time passed before I lost my next pair of knickers, but boy did I lose them.
Despite my raucous introduction to it, sex seemed to fizzle out for me for the next year or so. Tara was still desperately trying to claw me away from my books, and I still clung to them desperately. Some days I would indulge in a little quiet rebellion - not a single soul knew that I had started wearing elaborate, sexy lingerie under my comic book t-shirts and jeans. Tramp-red basques with suspender clips. Thongs with expensive French lace ruffles on the bum. These silky, frilly pieces were pushed far to the back of my drawer, and I guess I thought that I would get around to wearing them more seriously one day ...just not yet. I fancied myself packed tightly into a chrysalis made of law school and dumpy clothes, but inside, a devastatingly frilly butterfly was busy brewing. They'd all see, just wait.
It was the summer of my second year when a friend invited me out on a four-day camping trip through the Welsh countryside. At the time, I had been dating a guy who was more or less the male version of me. Translation: it was a disaster of a relationship. Andrew was sweet, and conscientious, and worked hard. But he was also the kind of guy who made me wistful for some passion, even if it was just the kind that made people smash plates on the floor during arguments and have make-up sex afterwards. I didn't know how we'd make it through four whole days of being in each other's faces, but I agreed and so me, him, my friend and her boyfriend started making plans for the trip.
Sometimes, I imagine myself in a courtroom, trying to explain (defend?) my actions to a jury of my peers. Was I guilty? When did I go from innocent bystander to pre-meditated instigator? Was it when I willingly packed four of my sluttiest sets of knickers into my backpack? Was it when I sort of decided to pick a fight with Andrew on the morning we left for the hike? It's hard to say.
But I packed them. And then, in that strange way that life sometimes unfolds, events gradually led to me losing more and more things, until the final evening of our camping trip, when I lost my favourite pair of black and lacy knickers. But I'll get to that in a moment.
First, I lost Andrew.
"Lost" is stretching it a bit. By now I can't really remember how, but we got into an argument while packing our bags. One thing led to another, he said, "you think you're better than me, don't you?" and I didn't say yes ...but the truth is, I didn't say no either, and by then things were sour enough that I told him to take a hike, although not literally, because I wanted to do that on my own now. Fine.
The next thing I lost was my tent.
This was more of a problem. My friend Elise, her boyfriend Joel and I set off, spirits high and backpacks full of way more stuff than we honestly needed. I had met Elise in my politics lectures. She was a wiry girl, like a compressed spring covered in velvety tanned skin that made you think of holidays. She was idealistic, fond of getting into arguments with our lecturers, and had dusty freckles, hair and eyes all of the same soft caramel brown.
Joel was - well, kind of the opposite. In fact, the deeper we walked into the idyllic Welsh landscape, the more I was struck by how he seemed to be a walking embodiment of the mossy hills we walked over, the ragged rocks cut in two by silvery streams, the morning mists. He had slate coloured, blue-black hair and dreamy, half asleep looking eyes, eyes that seemed always focused on something in the distance. She was all California girl, smooth as a beach ball, while he seemed like he had been born in a grey woolen jumper. He shared none of Elise's high-strung energy, but he had his own gentle charm, and the two seemed to get on really well.
We spent hours picking our way through the countryside on the first day; conversation disappeared and we all three fell into a comfortable, silent rhythm. It was on the second day, though, when I was walking upfront, that I heard Elise yelling, "Your tent! It's going to fall!" I felt a weight shift on my back and spun around just in time to see that my rolled up tent had worked free of its straps and had fallen to the ground. Elise made a swipe at it but it bounced once and then proceeded to roll down the steep edge of the path. Quick as a rabbit, Elise bounded after it, but it fell steeply into the brush and she had to stop, tangled in the bushes. She looked back up at me as the tent disappeared.
"Damn it!" I said, reaching down to lift her up. Joel did the same, and our joint efforts hoisted her up to within just a few inches of my face. She smiled broadly. Joel laughed, and started to pick some twigs off her, saying to me, "Christy, you didn't say what a camping noob you were. Anyway, if you wanted to sleep in our tent with us you could have just asked, no need to throw away your own, yeah?"
He had on a naughty, sideways smile and a twinkle in his eye.
My cheeks flushed and we all laughed, but it was that moment, ladies and gentleman of the jury, that I knew it: I was going to fuck Joel that night. And I was going to fuck his beautiful girlfriend, too.
We eventually set up camp, and whiled away the hours it took for day to turn into dusk, and then into night. I watched Joel build an impressive fire, admiring his skillful, almost meditative calm. Maybe a person didn't have to be thinking all the time, and maybe there was something sexy about just doing. Elise and I had a loud, ridiculous discussion about the relative pros and cons of being a lesbian. We were playful, somehow more comfortable with each other after our long, silent hike together, taking turns to say things we thought might break Joel out of his fire making focus and get a rise out of him.
"You know, I can totally see the benefits of getting it on with a woman. Really I can. But I don't think I could ever give up on men entirely, you know? Joel has such an amazing dick. I don't know if I could ever live without it," she said, flicking her sandy hair in Joel's direction.
My face prickled.
Joel stood up slowly, dusted the soot from his hands and stared hard at Elise from out underneath slightly crinkled black eyebrows. He glanced briefly at me. "You'll have to forgive this one, Christy," he said in a laughing voice. "She is indeed addicted to my dick, and it appears she's forgotten her manners." He plonked himself down next to her, and planted a deep, slow kiss on her open and waiting mouth.
I was taken aback. But it all felt so right. The clean air, the elemental landscape quiet and primordial all around us, a strong man building a strong fire and beautiful, perky Elise, giggling at my lame jokes. All the sweaty walking and climbing had lead us to this perfect moment.
"Yes! I'm a dick addict," she said, kissing him all over in return. "It's true. The government should look into setting up safe injection sites for me in town so I don't ever have to relapse."
It was properly night now, and the fire was robust. I wanted them both. I moved my chair closer to the fire and made a show of rubbing my hands to warm them. "Well, I don't know, as lovely as I'm sure your dick is, there's just some things that only a girl can give another girl, I think."
I said this sweetly, instinctively feeling Joel's warm dark eyes moving all over my body. Elise's face glowed. We were probably the only people around for miles.
"Oh yeah?" He said.
"Definitely. A dick's nice and all. But can it compare to another girl's soft lips? Women just have that special touch, you have to admit." I met his eyes, and, still holding his gaze, I rose and went over to Elise, dropped to my knees and gently took her face in my hands. She stared in wonder at me, her freckled face open and defenseless. Her lips were parted and already wet, and there was something so exquisitely feminine in the way she looked up at me, expecting. I leaned forward and kissed her lower lip, tasting her with the very tip of my tongue. She kissed back greedily, and my fingers fanned out over the back of her head. I pulled back, leaving her lips still wanting, quivering half open, eyes still closed. I looked at Joel, who seemed to be in deep contemplation of all of this.
"See? Now a big rough boy could never kiss a girl quite like that, could he?"
It might have been a few seconds or an eon that passed in that moment, but eventually Joel, who had been sitting in stony silence, allowed something like a flicker of recognition to pass over his face. It was something dark and elemental. Was it a smile? Before I knew it, he was in front of Elise too, who was now seated like some goddess on a chair with two devotees kneeled before her. He kissed her, savagely. It was a challenge, and when she gasped loudly, his hand yanking back her head, I understood the game we were playing. His other hand gripped mercilessly round her wrist, pinning it to her tanned thigh. He took her chin in his hands and kissed her deeply, and as he drew back, he trailed one of his fingers in her open mouth, staring at her like he owned her.
"I think Elise likes big rough boys, though, don't you?" he said in a dark, almost inaudible voice.
Elise listened closely, almost bewitched. She caught my eye again. Regaining herself, she shook her head back, laughing. "Now don't fight, guys. There's only one way to resolve this, fair and square."
In a moment we were in the tent, the light of the fire outside casting a magical golden haze over everything inside. It was warmer inside, and we were soon all naked, our three bodies creating one unified, glowing mass of warm limbs. Joel was somehow in charge, something almost primitive in his grunts, the way he handled Elise, pinning her this way and that way, kneading her body and sucking each of her small breasts hard while pawing the rest of her with big, rough hands. Elise, on the other hand, seemed to melt. No more was she the plucky, in-your-face girl with opinions she just had to share. No, somehow in Joel's presence she became a kitten, girlishly purring under his firm touch.
I kiss her, taking my time, enjoying every soft fold of her lips and tongue. She was a gentle kisser, and thorough. Out the corner of my eye I see Joel's hand working rhythmically between her legs. I find myself amazingly turned on by her scent, which seems to rapidly fill the tent, and when Joel lifts one glistening hand to stroke her belly, I see just how turned on and wet she really is. She's writhing between the both of us now, me kissing her slowly and sweetly on one end, Joel slipping his fingers roughly back into her wet slit, his other hand on his own cock. It was that evening in the tent that I uncovered the existence of unusually thick, heavy cocks - and Joel's was the perfect specimen.
We paused at some point, briefly kissing one another before looking down at Elise again, deciding how to divide her lovely body up between us.
"My turn," he said, moving to her lips and kissing her. Her legs were splayed, slick pussy lips opened, inviting me closer.
I had never done this to a girl before. I knelt down between her legs and pushed her legs further apart. I was intoxicated by her scent, barely noticing how dripping wet I myself had become. I was fascinated to discover a sparse patch of blonde hair above soft pink folds that seemed instantly familiar. I gently parted her lips, and began sucking on her clit, which seemed to pulsate in response. Her entire body throbbed and bucked, even the tiniest blonde hairs on her abdomen prickling with ecstasy, despite the rising temperature in the tent. She was beautiful. And I wanted more than anything to make her come.
In my mouth.
Her legs had closed softly around my head and were drawing me in; she rocked her hips gently, riding against my lips and tongue, wetness streaming down over her thighs and ass. She seemed to swell and open the more I sucked and licked.
Joel now had the full length of his cock in her throat, and she murmured quietly, hands on the small of his back, pulling him further in. Flicking my tongue over her clit made her murmur loudly and arch her back. She closed her lips more tightly around him, and he let his head drop back in bliss, his eyes closed. I licked again, she moaned, Joel moaned. We were all connected through one long, delicious thread of pleasure.
My pussy was aching badly by now, and the thought that I was pleasuring both her and him at the same time nearly made me explode right there.
"Hmm, she likes that," he said to me, his black eyes mysteriously making me feel even more naked than I already was. "But it looks like you need some help. Look, this is how you make her come."
His fat cock slipped out of her mouth and he moved over to my side, hoisting her by both of her legs. She squealed in delight. He thrust into her easily, her pussy already desperately wet. They had an easy familiarity with each other ...he'd probably fucked her millions of times, I thought. In that moment, Joel kneeling tall and strong over Elise, whimpering and pliant, and the light so warm and yellow, and me mesmerized by the sight of Joel's cock easily and happily swallowed by her little pink lips.
I must have been staring dumbfounded, lips still wet.
"Well, don't just stand there" he said.
I leaned in and kissed him. Oh, he certainly was a big rough boy, all right. His kiss was forceful, confident. He seemed to be savoring the taste of her on my lips. He pushed my head down towards her again. "Keep going," he mumbled. And so I did. I gently planted my lips again on her tender clit, while he began to thrust firmly in and out of her. All the tension from her lower body seemed to pool up in one spot as she clenched tightly, then released, a wave of pleasure forcing her lips open into the sweetest, most vulnerable shuddering cry. I heard Joel mumble his approval.
He fucked her, and I kissed her beautiful clit while he did. I saw his cock jump a little and he paused, closing his eyes and breathing hard. He was close to coming. He entered her again, this time fucking her roughly, so hard that I could only draw back and watch as she tossed her head back and screamed, clutching at both of us and jerking with each wave of her orgasm. I leaned in again and immediately took his cock in my mouth, sensing that he was going to follow her soon. He orgasmed with just a husky groan, but I felt the full force of a load of his cum burst into the back of my throat, his dick pumping and pulsing on my curled tongue. I swallowed it all down, sucking out every last drop, feeling his body loosen and relax. I couldn't tell where the sharp, creamy taste of his cum ended and the salted-honey sweetness of his girlfriend's beautiful pussy began.
To my surprise, just the thought of this sent me over the edge, and I found myself coming all at once, the ache releasing into full, easy waves of pleasure. My entire body shook. I almost laughed out loud. Shuddering, I opened my eyes to find Joel holding me on one side, and Elise the other. We held each other like that for a while, slick with heat and sweat.
Elise was completely spent, but she was the first to break our reverie. "So I'm glad you lost your stupid tent after all, Christy."
I beamed. So was I.
"I knew she was up to something," Joel said, tracing his fingers round the curve of my bellybutton.  "Honestly, when I saw that ridiculous pair of knickers she was wearing. I mean, who wears black lace panties on a camping trip?"
I laughed. He had a point.
"So, who's better, boy or girl?" I asked Elise playfully. She teased and twirled a lock of her hair in her fingers. "Oh jeez, I really couldn't say. I'm pretty sure Joel cheated anyways, so it's hard to decide. I think we'll need a rematch."
I fell in love with both of them, I think, sometime during that trip. That blissful moment after our first fuck might have been the exact time it happened, although it could have also been the next night ...or the night after that. On that trip I discovered my love for eating pussy, for moody, husky boys and for the taste of cum. I discovered the beautiful Welsh countryside and two new friends. But, you know, I lost my boyfriend. And a tent.
And I never saw that damn pair of lacy knickers again, either.


Exhibit C: The Ugly White Satin Ones

The first thing I'll say about this particular pair of knickers is that I wasn't at all sad to see them go.
By the time I was finishing up my third year at university, I became aware my nerdy image had somehow transformed into a sexy nerdy image. Truth be told I wasn't exactly sure how it happened, it just seemed that one day heavy black glasses and boots with dresses were edgy, rather than awkward and unintentional ...which they were when I last checked. I rolled with it. If I was going to be hot by accident, why not?
My over-the-top lingerie collection grew steadily and quietly, but this specific pair of satiny white briefs was a case in point: I very often had no idea what the hell I was doing or how to go about being "sexy." I had seen them on sale, hideous things with a fat glossy bow at the back, and bought them, thinking they would make a sophisticated addition to my stash. Once I got home, though, and tried them on, I realized all the quilting and fuss on the front made my crotch look something like my granny might embroider on a Christmas cushion. I was disgusted, and sent them to the very back of the drawer.
But of course, by now I was getting used to the fact that sometimes, the most well-hidden secrets are the first to be exposed, and the things you think least likely to even happen usually do. And then they may even happen a lot.
Enter Liam, a man who turned out to love convincing me to do new things almost as much as I loved doing them. I had had a blissful summer with Joel and Elise, but they had since emigrated to Australia, leaving me with a bunch of overpriced camping equipment and a half-hearted promise that they'd both fuck my brains out if I ever found myself in Melbourne. I was sad to see them go. They were sad too. The camping equipment went up for sale on eBay. I bought a relationship self help book. Life went on.
When Liam and I first met, it was a blustery day. The night before, the wind had started to pick up pretty seriously, so I ran outside and quickly picked off the laundry I had hung up to dry, in case it decided to rain. I was stuffing it all into a wicker basket when I heard my phone ring. I rushed inside and forgot all about the washing. In the morning, I woke to find the wicker basket suspended in a tree, all of my clothes missing, except for one sock strewn on the patio. It was like the scene of a crime. The wind had come in the night, and made off with my laundry. Peaking into my neighbour's garden, my suspicions were confirmed: a pair of pink pajamas lay like a dead body on his lawn. How embarrassing.
That same morning, I went around knocking on the doors of everyone in the complex to rescue my wind-stolen washing. People laughed and good-naturedly handed over an old t-shirt, a crumpled dress crusty with leaves, the other sock. I knocked on the last door of the complex, just to be thorough. I had never met the occupant, but when a good-looking guy answered, I realized he must have only recently moved in. I told my sob story about the wind and the flying laundry, like some kind of reverse travelling salesman, and he laughed. He was a good 10 years my senior, stockily built but with quick hands and light, intelligent eyes.
"Actually, I did think it was a bit strange, I found something in my flower box this morning, but ...I don't think it's yours...?" He ducked back into the house and in a moment he was back, smiling strangely, holding something in his hands between thumb and forefinger, as though too scared to touch it.
Of course. What else were they but the very same hideous, satiny white nightmare knickers I had tried to forget about? How did they even get in the laundry pile anyway?
I turned deep red (probably) and he looked at the pair, limp like the carcass of an old fashioned angel or a strange butterfly that had died in his zinnia bushes. I snatched them from him, laughing nervously. He was obviously amused.
"Oh, so they are yours. I just ...they don't look like ...I mean, no offense but they don't seem like something a girl like you would wear..."
It was his turn to go red.
"I'm sorry, that's stupid, I have no idea about..." he gestured to the knickers, shrugging.
We stood, staring at each other, the offending knickers hanging limply between us. I heard the wind stirring up again.
"Hey, I've actually just moved in here, do you want to ...come in for some tea or something?"
In hindsight, this was the first thing Liam tried to convince me of. I laughed, saying, "yes, of course" and truthfully, everything from that moment got the same answer from me.
I went inside.
There was nowhere to sit. He turned his back to me and started to make some tea, his back and shoulder muscles moving visibly under the thin cotton of his shirt. Nervous as hell, I began chattering, staring at the empty space and unpacked boxes strewn everywhere. "So you're new here? I never really spoke to the lady that lived here before you, although she looked nice. It's two bedrooms, right? Nice. I don't have this balcony thing in my place. I mean, I'm kind of offended now that I think about it - what's wrong with my knickers anyway?"
I said this last bit a little too quickly, and when his eyes flashed to meet mine, I smiled back a little too awkwardly. I laughed, to show I was only joking, but this also came out awkwardly, and I looked away again. Typical. This ugly pair of panties couldn't just exist. Oh no, it had to lead me here, to this strange guy's apartment, where he'd probably murder me and chop me into bits or something. Or discover what a completely awkward idiot I am, which is worse.
There was nothing left in the room for me to pretend I was casually looking at. He handed me a cup of chamomile tea, fumbling for something to say, but as I reached for the cup, the tips of his fingers grazed mine and my eyes caught the flicker of a gold wedding band. All in the space of one giddy heartbeat, I knocked the tea from his hands, where it flew up, dumping its contents directly onto me. The pain was unbearable. A dark, chamomile scented wet patch was spreading down over the front of my jeans and legs, searing the skin underneath it.
"Shit!" I screamed, and began doing a little dance from one leg to the other. His eyes were wide and he stared slack jawed at my crotch.
"Oh god, oh god, I'm so sorry!" he said, panicking and looking around for a cloth to mop up the mess. By this point, I'm sure I could feel the top layers of my epidermis peeling off. I was nearly bent double - the pain didn't seem to be stopping. My eyes prickled with hot tears.
He was dabbing helplessly now at me with a tea towel, which did precisely nothing, and I was sobbing, mentally running through a future in which I didn't have the use of my legs anymore, when he snapped his fingers and said, "Aha! I have some ice in the freezer..."
He turned his back to me again and then, possessed by God-knows-what and unable to bear the torture anymore, I unbuttoned my jeans and tore them off my body, flinging them away. A rush of cold air came to the rescue. He turned around again, staring straight at my now pink, parboiled thighs.
"Oh," he said.
We both stared at the pink blotch, while he nervously tried to find a place to put down the ice cubes and then figure out what to do with himself.
"Is this where I make a joke about making you wet?" he said, followed with a look of instant regret on his face.
Thank God, someone slightly more awkward than myself.
"You're married," I blurted out. Nope, turns out I was still the reigning queen of awkward.
He looked at his ring as though he was surprised to see it there and shrugged.
"Divorced," he said.
I slowly took my knickers off, the rapidly cooling chamomile tea on them giving me goose bumps all over my belly. I had no idea what I was doing.
"So what do you think of these knickers then, do they meet your exacting standards?"
Where the hell did that come from? What was I thinking?
He was quiet, not looking at me or the pile of clothes I had tossed to the floor. Was I really doing this? Was I really standing half naked in some stranger's house at 10 in the morning? Something in his face darkened. My eyes focused on a single quivering water droplet on the pad of one of his fingertips. For a moment everything was silent except for my heartbeat pounding in my ears.
"So, you're just a little slut who goes to people's houses and strips down?" His face was hard, serious. A flutter of panic rose in my chest. I suddenly started visualizing a future where I was cut into bits and stored in Tupperware containers, my family searching for my missing body, my ugly school photo flashing on the evening news.
"I ...think I'll just go," I muttered, feeling as though all the air had just left the room.
"No you won't," he said immediately.
Silence.
Was I scared? To my alarm, I felt a desperate twinging between my legs. Did he really used to be married? Did that change anything? I had never slept with an older guy before. They had always seemed so ...intimidating.
"Turn around," he said. The words seemed to be coming from deep inside his throat.
"But ...I ..."
"Do it."
I turned around immediately, placing my shaking hands on a taped up box propped against the wall. The cardboard felt so rough against my fingertips. Was my body going into shock? Did I need to go to a hospital to get burn treatment? My mind fluttered furiously. I closed my eyes, and heard him moving around behind me. I heard a ruffle and the unmistakable clink of his metal belt buckle falling to the floor.
I shuddered.
He came close, and his hands, almost as rough as the cardboard, reached around and delicately touched the tender red skin on my thighs.
"Does it hurt?" he whispered into my ear.
I exhaled, my head spinning.
Before I knew it, something immensely cold slipped over the skin there, and I yelped out. The ice. He was gliding a cube over my burnt flesh, the hot skin melting it easily, making prickling drops that slid all the way down my bare legs and puddled onto the floor. An excruciating throb radiated out from between my legs. My skin smarted, but with each stroke of the ice cube, soothing waves washed over me. The entire surface of my body seemed to tighten up, every last hair standing on edge.
With his hot breath against my ear, and the rapidly disappearing ice cube licking all over my body, each of my senses seemed blissfully overwhelmed. I couldn't tell what was pain or pleasure anymore, whether the icy hot thrills running up and down my body were too much for me, or whether I very much wanted more. I whimpered. His fingers moved closer, and as he gently touched the ice cube against my clit, I cried out again.
The ice cube moved deeper down, and he pressed it firmly between my lips. I was streaming wet now, melting along with the ice cube and sending sticky rivers of my own all down my legs. The ice cube gone, he seamlessly slid two fingers into me, and I swear I almost felt my entire body move and pull him in deeper.
It was electric.
His other hand was resting on my clit, tracing tiny circles, while his fingers slipped silently in and out. I squirmed all around him, shuddering from cold and heat and some far more delicious feeling swirling in the centre of my belly. It was a new sensation, one that scared me a little, one that I hadn't felt ever before.
"I have to go," I said weakly, not meaning it for a second.
"I'm not done with you yet," he said in the same growling voice as before, and as he did, he plunged a little deeper, pressing me open. It felt as though my entire lower body had melted into hot goo, and that I was pouring all over his hands, unable to contain myself.
The wind outside had grown stronger and was rattling at the windows.
His fingers pumped more aggressively now, and he anchored my body with his other hand. I couldn't speak, even if I had had something to say, but I mumbled some vague protest to the wall, not really believing that his fingers could do what they were clearly doing to me.
"I've never done this before..." I sputtered, and it was true. I had never felt so hot, so wet and so completely at someone's mercy.
To my surprise he spoke softly and firmly into my ear in a new voice; a gentle, caring voice, "Just relax. It's OK. Trust me. You're going to come soon. And when you do, I'm going to make you squirt. But you're not going to do that just yet, ok? Not until I say." I was so delirious with pleasure I could only nod mutely at his instruction. I relaxed deeper into the sensation. Something wet and full and luscious was growing inside me, sending shivering twitches all up and down my legs. I badly wanted to come, right there and then all over this stranger's fingers, but I held back, and he patiently edged me closer and closer, holding my quaking body with one hand and ratcheting up my pleasure with the other.
"I want to come now," I begged, my body about to burst.
"No. Not yet. Stay here with me. Don't come yet."
"Please," I said and felt my body shuddering with the effort.
Before the word was completely out my mouth I felt his fingers pull out of me and in a split second he rammed his cock where they had been. It was so astonishingly quick, that I gasped silently and arched my back. My body clenched around him, and the growing ache reached fever pitch. A cascade of pleasure rushed over me. I felt as though I was unimaginably high on the apex of a roller coaster, pausing there for a second to gaze down at the long, long way I was going to fall... my heart stopped and stars twinkled and buzzed behind my eyelids. He breathed hard into my neck.
"Come for me," he said.
I didn't need any more encouragement.
With a single, very deep thrust he plunged me over the abyss, and everything that I had been holding onto slipped away in one rushing, blissful flood. He yanked his cock out and gripped my body firmly as I shook. To my amazement, torrents of liquid were gushing out from me, spraying him, my legs, the floor... I held onto him tightly, all of my body convulsing from its very core, the liquid never seeming to end. Every muscle cried out and pulsed, and my body rocked with an orgasm that threatened to break me apart.
I stood with his arms wrapped around me, panting. I felt emptied out; my entire body limp with the release of the most thrilling tension. He held me there, still pinned to the wall. I glanced behind me and saw his stiff cock, doused in a thick sheen of the same liquid, the flat of his belly glistening.
"Good girl" he said playfully, and slapped my ass.
I nearly laughed out loud. We both collapsed onto the floor, me more exhausted than I had ever been in my life.
"Wow ...I've never ...I didn't know ...I ..." I stammered, trying to compose myself, to make sense of what had just happened.
"Shh!" he said, kissing me sweetly and smiling. "I bet you've forgotten about your burn, haven't you?"
I lay back and closed my eyes, body still buzzing. It was though some new corridor of pleasure had opened up inside me, and I had come with every last atom of my body, hard, from the top of my head to my now wet toes. Floods of peaceful bliss washed over me. The wind outside sounded rough and dangerous, but inside I was warm and gooey and happy. I giggled.
"Looks like we'll need another towel" I said.
He jumped up, looking for one, careful to avoid the previous puddle of chamomile tea.
"This place is a mess. Can I, uh, make you a proper cup of tea now? And where are those horrible knickers of yours?" he said.
"That's weird. I swear I just saw them over here ...it seems we've lost them..."

- THE END -

* * *

Doing It Faster - A Bad Boy Romance

Chapter 1 - Michelle

"Oh, Michelle, could you please see me after class today?" he said.
Words, they taught us in my Beginner's Creative Writing Class for Adults, have meaning. Sometimes, some words can even have many meanings, and when you're anxious like me, you learn how to read every possible meaning of every possible word.
I know everything there is to know about words. I know how to tell people off for using future perfect continuous tense incorrectly, I know the etymology of the word "mutilate", and I know how to spell bureaucracy without cheating. I know that "I'm sorry" can sometimes mean "I hate you", and "marry me" can sometimes mean "I give up." It's all in the context, you see, which is another thing my Beginner's Creative Writing Class tells me.
"You're reading too much into things" my exasperated friends tell me almost daily, but no, you can never read too much, into things or out of them, and when Mr. Cain asked to see me after class, well, there's a whole universe of things that that could mean.
"Sure, no problem." I said.
Mr. Cain smiled and nodded once, then continued nagging the corner of an old book that was resting in his lap.
If you look closely enough, there are words in everything. Take Mr. Cain for instance. His bleached white collared shirt says "yes sir" but his hairy forearms and five-day stubble say, "I'm a modern-day Hemingway, stand back while I engage in ennui and self-inflicted but romantic alcoholism."
Maybe you think I have a crush on Mr. Cain. Well, so what if I do? It's practically unavoidable at this point. There's fate, and then there's something even stronger: narrative necessity. I simply had to have a crush on him, you see. I was the plucky but maladjusted loner and he was the brooding and artsy teacher-type who was going to seduce me and awaken my inner slut. Tale as old as time.
He was crinkling up his eyebrows at the book, as though this would help him squeeze out more insight from the words on their pages.
"What makes this passage so visceral, though? What really jumps out at you?" he asked the class.
Mousy Linda cleared her throat and said, "The author is speaking to all five of our senses. She talks about the smell of the soil, the feeling of the air ...so it's all about, like, the body..."
She trailed off as Mr. Cain turned his grizzled gaze to her. It was pretty clear to me that poor Linda was totally not the heroine of this story.
"Right..." he said, gesturing for her to continue. "But what else? Take that further. Let's develop that idea."
Linda withered a little more. Nobody raised their hands.
"I think," I say into the quiet room, "that she wants to show in this piece that the body is speaking. That the conversation is carrying on, but the message is now transmitted through the body itself. Words can have lots of different meanings, but in this passage she's not interested in words anymore, she wants to show the body, as it is."
Mr. Cain stops nagging the corner of the page and looks at me. He nods just once.
"Yes, I like that. The body as text. Good." He nods again and changes his tone, looking back into the pages. "It's certainly a common interpretation, but thank you for that, Michelle."
Common? I look down at my arm resting stupidly on my lap. Common. Somewhere around last year, I had decided not to cover up my scars anymore. Yes, I know, self-harm is very 1990, but I was doing Troubled Teenager long before anyone else, I promise, and now there was nothing to do but own the many pale scar lines climbing all the way up my arm ...especially when it got as hot as it was today.
I traced a finger over them; they were old calibrations from a time past when I measured my pain in a very different way. When I had ratcheted up all the way to the end of my arm, and had no more room to go, I had had to change my instrument. These days, I tried to use words to cut, instead. Words are sharper, and the wounds they leave sometimes never heal. Though everyone is happy I am 10lbs heavier and significantly less cut up (ha ha!) than I was before. The truth is, nobody knew just how truly lacerating some of the words I used on myself every day were. My body also spoke, except it said "broken" and "dirty" most of the time.
When Mr. Cain said the words "common interpretation," I had quietly felt the word "stupid" cut into me a little, like a tiny sword. I sat in silence for the rest of the lesson, smarting. The hour drew to a close and I thought about saying something nasty about Linda's cardigan, then thought better of it.
What on earth did Mr. Cain want to talk to me about? Having a crush on him suddenly started to seem a little inconvenient.


Chapter 2 - Mr. Cain


If I had a dollar for every time some angsty child came into my class and tried to impress everyone with her Tumblr poetry ...well, I wouldn't have to teach some dead-end writing class for extra cash in the first place.
The trouble with students like Michelle is that they're desperately immature - and completely unaware of the fact.
Michelle was a thoughtful, subtle writer and created strikingly refined characters in class ...but she was also twenty one years old. And no amount of talent could change that fact.
I've been writing for years. The old Middle School style melodrama and overwrought dialogue? It was a good thing she was pretty, because there was no way I would put up with that shit if she were otherwise. Michelle played the disturbed waif particularly well, but to be honest it didn't quite suit her. She was too voluptuous underneath her ratty black clothes. Too robust. Her skin was a little too rosy looking, despite how bitchy she sometimes was to the other students, or how insulted she felt when I gave her a less than brilliant grade for one of her compositions.
I looked down at her assignment in my lap, and my "C" looped round with a big red ring. In hindsight, this wasn't an entirely fair grade to give he. At the time, I thought it my duty, as an older man, to point out her haughtiness, bring her down a peg or two and truly help her with her writing. I had no idea that within a matter of a few months it would be her showing me a thing or two about writing ...but I'll get to that in a moment. At that point, was I inventing excuses to talk to her alone? I couldn't say. But I was her senior (by a hell of a lot) and her teacher.
Did I have a crush on her? Well, that's entirely beside the point. She dutifully stayed behind class and I noticed she was wearing, as usual, an outfit of only black and some junky Goth jewelry. She smelled like lilacs.
"Michelle, thanks for staying. I ...wanted to discuss this short story you submitted last week," I said, relishing the tension this seemed to create. I stroked my beard contemplatively, deciding this would heighten the drama a little, too.
"Oh?" she said.
"It's an unusual choice ...erotica," I said, hating that she had made me say the word.
She looked out of the window. I was struck anew by how incredibly young she looked. The lower curve of a surprisingly full breast pulled at the cotton of her shirt, but she was sitting bunched up, tucking her body away. In all my years teaching this class, no student had had the guts to voluntarily submit something like this. It felt like a cry for help. Or a massive "fuck you" ...I wasn't sure which.
"It's ...well, it's brave, I'll say that much."
She flashed her dark brown eyes over at mine and then out towards the window again, ignoring me and looking very much like she was sulking. I felt like a pervy headmaster who had called in a naughty student and we were in the first few scenes of a low-budget porno. Jesus, I hated this dynamic.
"Would you like to share why you decided to go with this topic? I'd really like to understand the reasoning behind this story."
I suddenly felt like a school counselor instead. I felt a headache coming on.
She pouted a little, and kept ignoring me, with that teenage audacity that thinks any disagreement is proof that the person simply can't "handle them." I was getting irritated.
She finally spoke, flicking a slice of dyed black hair out of her eyes.
"You told us in the beginning of the class that we were here to express ourselves, and that there were no rules. So, I wrote what I wanted to."
I bet, in her mind, she thought she had really showed me. How could I tell her that her juvenile scratchings had in fact embarrassed me, but not for the reasons she thought? Fine, the kid gloves, if you'll pardon the expression, were off. We were here to learn, after all. If I weren't hard on my students, they'd never learn anything.
I exhaled loudly and tried to seem as bored as possible. "Well, I've made quite a few suggestions and corrections, especially to this second bit over here. You switch tense a lot, but don't worry, that's a pretty common mistake to make, especially as a beginner. Plus, I'm not really sure you understand the meaning of the word "portentious," maybe look that up when you get home. I've made some other suggestions at the end here..."
Girls like Michelle have one-trick-pony identities. Getting away with things because she was a hot girl who nobody "understood" just wasn't going to fly in my class. This wasn't a game to me. And I didn't take kindly to girls who submitted nasty diary entries and called it art. Nope, she was going to have to try a lot harder than that.
She flushed a peculiar shade of red and looked as though she was about to argue back with me, but bit her tongue. She quickly took the assignment from me and stuffed it into her bag, then mumbled something and left.
She had beautiful eyes and almost mind-numbingly distracting breasts, it was true. But she was a mediocre writer. If she wanted to impress me, she had to do a hell of a lot better than that.


Chapter 3 - Michelle


I wanted to tear that stupid assignment into a million pieces. The word "common" was still ringing in my ears. I had to be honest: I did not expect that reaction. I mean, I expected he'd want to have a word with me about what I'd written - that was kind of the point - but I'm embarrassed to admit I didn't foresee that he would go on about my tenses or vocab after ...well, after all the things I wrote.
I'm not sure why I was compelled, right at that moment, to open my laptop and start writing again. I was dog tired, it was late and I needed to get up early tomorrow for work, but it didn't matter. I furiously tapped the keyboard.
"The Teacher and the Taught" appeared at the top of the page. Good. What did he know anyway? I'd show him. Not only would I get the technical details perfectly correct, I would make the story even more outrageous. I looked again at the screen. Too obvious. I backspaced it all and wrote instead, "All of Me, Twisted." There, it had a nice ring to it. I'm no idiot. I know exactly where his eyes had been roaming as we sat alone in the classroom that afternoon, nothing but my filthy piece of writing between us. I know it, and he knows that I know it.


Chapter 4 - Mr. Cain


It might have been my imagination, but there was something different about Michelle by the time the next class rolled around. Her clothing was tighter, and there seemed to be less of it. Or was I just imagining things? Maybe I had been a little too hard on her. Maybe I didn't need to be quite so brutal with the red pen. She was so young, after all. I have to admit I was curious to see what she would come up with as her second draft.
We sat in our usual circle, and the students settled in. We started, as we did with every lesson every week, by having each person read out loud a section of a piece they were working on. We'd then take turns to weigh in, giving some feedback on flow, on word choice. True, it was sometimes cringe-inducing, but I wanted every student of mine to know that to create art was to be vulnerable, to be exposed. It wasn't always pleasant to be criticized.
Linda read a paragraph from her Victorian memoir-style piece - a snooze for all involved but she was fairly competent when it came to describing crinolines and provincial dramas, so I couldn't fault her much. The guy sitting next to her said his piece and the dutiful students took turns offering feedback. Then it was Michelle's turn.
She opened a folder she had resting on her lap and retrieved a crisp sheet of printed paper. She started to read; it was a short horror story she had started at the beginning of the course, one with a suspiciously sulky heroin and an outbreak of contagion in a small town. As she read, her dark hair fell in a curtain over her eyes, and at the end of each sentence she paused and inhaled, her ample chest rising and falling softly in the slightly-too-small bodice of her black dress.
Should I say I wanted to speak to her again after this class? Why not? She'd have to obey me. I could whip out my red pen again and scribble even more corrections all over it, just because I could, just to see her squirm. I quickly stopped this train of thought. Why was I letting her get to me like this? I've made my mistakes in life, sure, but if there's one thing I don't do, it's let girls like this get to me. She had tried to get a rise out of me with that ridiculous story she submitted. Well, if she wanted to play that game...
"Michelle, I think you've shown us that you have that piece pretty well-covered."
She stopped reading and stared at me, a little surprised. A fake garnet ring glistened on her finger.
"Since we don't have that much time today, why don't you share that other piece with the class and we can give you feedback on that instead?"
The color seemed to vanish from her already white face as her panicked eyes locked on mine.
"The other piece, you know the one," I said with careful indifference.
Her lower lip seemed to tremble visibly. Where she had been cocky a moment before, now she seemed smaller, incredibly vulnerable. In a flash, I felt horrible for being so cruel to her ...but then again, I had the feeling she didn't quite mind it.
"Um... which other piece? This is the only one I..." she began but I loudly cut her off, "Yes, the other piece you're working on, the erotica piece" I said with emphasis.
These words had a powerful effect on the other students, who all turned to her now with a renewed intensity. She swallowed hard, then pulled another sheet of paper from the folder, the look of horror on her face slowly hardening and becoming defiance.
"Ok, sure," she said, trying to match my casual tone.
For a few moments, the air was as silent and heavy as it had ever been in that room. In a pitiful voice and with all the confidence she could muster, she began reading the opening paragraph of her piece. I sat back in my chair, secretly thrilled that I had dominated her so easily. I hated being manipulated, but if she wanted to play at this game, well, then I would call her bluff.


Chapter 5 - Michelle


It was as though every inch of my skin had caught fire. I was blushing so hard I thought I might faint - was he really going to make me do this? Why? You know, I can appreciate a good story. I can see the irony - I had wanted to make him a little uncomfortable with this story, to shock him, and now he was throwing it back in my face. Every word, I soon realized, had probably been written with him in mind, and those same words were now coming out my mouth, here, in front of all the other students, and I felt like I wanted to peel off my burning skin and run away from it forever.
How dare he?
I had done the same thing to my High School English teacher. I had submitted a "creative writing" piece dripping with expletives and graphic descriptions of all the many, many ways a tempting young Lolita character could seduce and ruin a married man. I had detailed the maddening allure of her forbidden pussy, the way she teased, asking to be put in her place, half daring, half begging to be disciplined for her behavior. And when I breezily dropped that paper onto his desk, I knew without a doubt that I had him on a string for the rest of the school year. He didn't need to know that I was still technically a virgin, or that I would never in a million years do anything like that ...but the control thrilled me nonetheless.
I had half expected the same easy reaction with Mr. Cain, yet here I was, looking like an idiot. I had always relished the idea of being "punished" ...but this wasn't quite what I had in mind. There was nothing I could do. I had to read it.
I worked my way through the first awkward paragraph. It was, I realized, a very similar story of temptation and debauchery. Maybe I was the predictable one?
"He threw her mercilessly against the bed, standing over her for a moment, making sure she understood that she was completely, utterly at his mercy. Slowly, he pulled off his leather belt, one loop after the other, and stood tall; letting it hang at his feet like a weapon, buckle wrapped firmly in his fist. Every part of her body pulsed with anticipation..."
I looked up, inwardly cringing, every student hanging onto my words with a mix of panic and amused fascination.
"Don't stop," Mr. Cain, said. He knew what was coming next in the story. And all at once I understood what was happening. This wasn't embarrassing to him at all. Oh no. In fact, he liked it. He wanted to see me humiliated and exposed like this. I stared at him, disbelieving. I had totally underestimated him. Good move, sir. But now it was my move.
I cleared my throat and returned my gaze to the page, paragraphs crammed full of "cock" and "cunt" and other words that seemed that they would be further gasoline to my burning skin just to utter them. But I flicked my hair from my face, sat up straight and spoke clearly. I barged through the next few lines; not only did I not avoid the filthy parts, but I emphasized them, holding each dirty word a little longer on my tongue, relishing the descriptions, taking my time to describe the heroine's swollen, glistening hole, the hero's throbbing cock, the sweaty abs, the moans, the grunts.
Some of the students were giggling under their breath. Others were stunned into silence. The more I read, the more gloriously I felt that I just didn't give a damn. In the final paragraph, the heroine is roughly bent over a boudoir stool and is begging for mercy, begging the hero to fuck her senseless, or not to, depending on how you interpreted it.
"Two hot, wet tears rolled down each of her cheeks. Her wrists burning in their restraints and her legs spread wide to him, she choked back a sob and pleaded, 'be gentle.' But at that moment he took his enormous -"
"Ok, that's enough, let's stop there," Mr. Cain burst in suddenly.
"You want me to stop?" I said, teasingly.
"Yes, I think we've heard enough," he said. The color dropped entirely from his cheeks.
"But I haven't gotten to the good part yet. The part where he fucks her in the ass."
His face had the expression of someone who had just been slapped. All eyes were now on him, waiting to see what he could possibly respond to this.
"Ok, but I think we do have some idea now of..."
"No, it's OK, I want to," I said easily. "After all, it's this part that I was having really trouble with."
With an electrifying realization, I noticed a fat bulge in his pants. Ah, so that's where all the blood went. I was on a role. I had no idea where I had found the courage, but here I was, turning the tables on him, and it felt fantastic.
"It's just that I find that writing these kinds of scenes can just be so ..." I flickered my gaze teasingly over his crotch. "So ... hard, you know?"
Something like anger was simmering on his face.
"Unless of course the other students don't want me to continue reading...?" I asked, the biggest hurdle of audacity already overcome. When the class offered only feeble nods and shrugs, I carried on reading, gleefully.
With each word, Mr. Cain grew more visibly shaken. He was holding a notebook on his lap so tightly his knuckles had gone white, but I knew what was going on beneath it. I knew, and I loved it. The heroine in my story was fucked within an inch of her life, and I paced luxuriously through the tale, savoring every last drop and morsel. By the time I reached the end of my sordid tale, my protagonist lying cum-splattered and crumpled over a chair, the mood in the class had completely changed - probably forever.
I spoke the last word, returned the sheet to the folder, closed it gently and crossed my hands over my lap like a good little schoolgirl. There.
The tension in the class had swollen, risen along with the story and was now released, but the students were thoroughly rattled and had turned their shocked faces to Mr. Cain, somehow sensing that more than one line had been crossed today, and wondering what he was going to do about it.
He cleared his throat and shifted in his seat awkwardly.
"Yes, well. You see, the trouble with this sort of thing... what you have to remember, Michelle, what you have to keep in mind... it's kind of a delicate balancing act with the tension, you know... and the tension in this piece..."
He trailed off, the irony of tension not being lost on him or the students. He angrily glanced at his watch. We still had fifteen minutes to go.
"Ok. Well. We don't have much time left so let's just call it a day today and I'm sure we'll all have some feedback for Michelle's piece next week..."
I had the feeling he was trying to say that it was "common" but with a little triumphant flutter I realized he wouldn't dare. Not now.
"I do think, Michelle, that you should come and see me after class, though," he said.


Chapter 6 - Mr. Cain


My entire face was prickling with anger. This whole thing had gone on too far. I should have been the adult in this situation. I should have nipped this whole thing in the bud. Dirty slut, I thought, and instantly regretted it. But there was no denying it. She was sexy, she was talented ...and she was absolutely toying with me. I hadn't for a second believed she would follow my bluff, but she had done it easily, and made me look like a fool in my own classroom.
Without thinking, I had asked to see her after class, but realized with horror that it may have come across as a pleading invitation rather than an admonishment. But was it an invitation? I put the thought out of my mind. Little harlots like Michelle may have the upper hand in shock value, sure, but this wasn't my first rodeo, and if she was going to be arrogant, well, I had full liberty to penalize her harshly till she understood: I don't allow girls like her get the best of me. Never.
The class had cleared off, most of them barely waiting till they had reached the door to burst into excited chatter about what the hell they had just witnessed. Inside the class, though, I had bigger problems. Michelle sat in front of me, upright and self satisfied as a queen who's just laid waste to barbarian lands. She said nothing. She didn't have to.
"That's quite the stunt you just pulled," I said, in my harshest voice.
She feigned a look of surprise.
"Stunt? But you asked me to read that story..."
"Don't interrupt," I snapped.
She shrunk back a little.
"That story is absolutely, completely inappropriate for this class. That's obvious. We're here as a class to learn about composition, to learn about the mechanics of writing..."
"Was there something wrong with my tenses again?" she asked, in a voice so sickly sweet I wondered if she really thought I was buying it.
"No, no, not at all, the writing's fine ...it's actually quite good..." I began but then realized I had lost my opportunity to humiliate her by claiming her grammar was faulty.
"So then what's the problem?" she asked.
Her big wet eyes stared plainly at me, and she clutched her folder to her chest, pressing together her plump, white breasts. Could she see that she was turning me on? The thought made me irrationally angry.
"The problem is your writing ...it just lacks pacing. It lacks restraint." My mind snagged on the word "restraint." All at once, an image of her flashed into my mind, one where she was the heroine of her own story, tied up, splayed on a chair, legs spread wide open... is that what she wanted? Is that what all of this was about?
"Without any restraint, the story just happens all at once. You need to let things develop slowly. To build tension. And the title. "All of me, twisted" is just... it's just so clichéd, you know? It sounds like a country song or something. There's just no building up. You just jump right into the sex, without laying the stage, without setting up the stakes."
I felt more comfortable now in my old role as know-it-all teacher, patiently asserting my superior knowledge, guiding her out of her amateurish ignorance. The trouble was, it was all bullshit. Her story was remarkably paced, and the tension was perfect. This, too, made me irrationally angry.
"So... there's not enough tension?" she said, looking a little confused.
"Nope."
"I need to build things up more slowly?"
"Yeah, exactly."
She looked away for a while, with eyes that looked as though they were brewing something. She briskly got up from her chair and set the folder to one side. Absentmindedly, as though she was doing nothing more than thinking about what she would have for dinner, she sauntered over to one corner of the room, where my desk was. Slowly, she put one palm and then the other onto the table surface, then leant backwards, giving her ass a little wiggle.
"So, when my main character is standing like this, waiting, I should make sure the guy just doesn't come over and fuck her immediately?" her eyes twinkled.
It seemed like she had said "fuck" a million times in the last hour alone, and yet the word still had some electricity in it. I said nothing.
"I guess I should make it so that she really begs for it, really has to wait and wait ...and wait..." She arched her back and dropped her head loosely forward, letting her dark soft hair fall softly between her hands.
The air thrummed.
After what seemed like eons she spoke again, "You're right of course, I guess I get impatient. I see the whole story in my head and I just want it to get to the juicy bits already, you know? But ...tension..." she said, now rolling a pen up and down the length of the desk with one coquettish finger.
I couldn't let her know about the almost painful ache in my pants, and the feeling that if I budged as much as an inch I would explode right there and then. I opened my mouth to speak, to say something smart and reasonable and moderate, something that would let her know that I was still in charge here, and she was just a silly girl playing with things she didn't really underst--
"Tension!" she said in a theatrical voice, interrupting my thoughts. "In my story, I just want them to have sex, and lots of it. But you're right, that doesn't make sense. So, for example, if it was I writing this story," she gestured loosely to the air between us, "then we would be having sex already. I'd be over there on the table, already halfway to my second orgasm by now. But what do I know? That's why I'm in your class, right? To be taught..."
I sat mute, watching. She seemed to be enjoying herself. She was tiptoeing a very, very fine line and knew it. She really was a master of pacing, I thought, and inwardly thanked myself for creating such a competent student.
"Instead, I have to think of a way to introduce more tension. To show the reader what the stakes really are. They want it, but they can't have it," she said dreamily, talking to some distant point outside the window. "The characters in my story, I mean, not you and I," she smiled, flashing a teasing glance at me.
She turned away from the desk and sidled over to me. In the same way that honey pours from the jar almost unbearably slowly in the beginning, but then falls all at once in one heavy, luscious blob, she slid up to me slowly and then all at once was standing close, really close, so close that I swear I could hear the silky rasp of her breathing.
"So I'll change my story. I'll have them get close to it, you know. Really close. But they won't fuck this time." The word zinged again; something about the way it sat in her little mouth meant it never grew stale, always sounded shocking, unexpected. Her heavy eyes were even darker close up, and so liquid they seemed to reflect every last scrap of light in the room. Her hair smelled musky; the tiny links of a silver chain rolled over her delicate collarbones as she spoke. She had an almost old fashioned build; the kind of over-the-top feminine hourglass that made old-school cartoon characters turn into wolves with tongues that unroll to the floor. Her breasts really were uncommonly full and heavy, and seemed all the sexier for being paired with a sweet, innocent face that seemed unaware of the effect of all the voluptuousness below. Why was she hiding such a beautiful body in such ghastly clothing?
"Maybe the girl will lean in really close, like this..." she began, moving her face right up to mine. She parted her lips. I could hear her breathing stop, along with everything else in the universe, except the throbbing in my lap.
"...And she could do something like take his hand like this..." she reached haltingly to my lap and grasped my hand. Almost hypnotized, I didn't resist. Gently, she closed her fingers around my wrist and pulled the hand closer to her.
"...And he could touch her, you know? Just a little. Just to build the..." here, she cautiously placed my hand between her legs, nothing but the thin black cotton of her dress between my fingertips. She paused it there, waiting to see the effect this would have on me, her deep eyes still fixed staring at mine.
"Just to build the uh... the tension," she exhaled and pressed my fingertips further against her body. "And he'd want to touch her so badly, you know? He'd be just dying to really touch her. By this point she's soaking wet ...but he doesn't know that yet." She smiled. "He's wondering if she'll let him... let him..."
My head was spinning. This was wrong. Disgusting, even. At any point, any one of the other students could come barging in and I was sitting here, rock hard with one hand on my student's crotch. There was no coming back from this now. She was tiny, easily half my size; I could grab her right now, and fling her onto the table, and fuck her so hard she would never think of teasing me like this again. So what was stopping me? Was she really so sure I wouldn't?
Suddenly, she stepped back and tossed my hand aside. Her entire attitude changed. "But nope, they won't do anything. Not yet. Nope. Because of tension."
I was stunned. She pretended to pick some lint off her skirt and cracked her neck from side to side like a villain in a mafia movie. She grabbed her folder from the chair and gave me a glancing look before moving for the door. "You're a good teacher you know," she tossed her hair flippantly, "You've taught me so much already. Later!"
Before I knew it she had left, slamming the door behind her. My dick throbbed in my pants. Bitch. I was going to teach her a lesson, all right.


Chapter 7 - Michelle


I had never felt so turned on in all my life. I raced home, drunk on my own brazenness, feeling sure that the people I passed in the street could see straight into my depraved soul, could somehow sense how soaking wet my panties were and how fast my thoughts were flickering from one dirty possibility to the next.
What had I done?
I hate being challenged. I hate when people underestimate me. Let's call it a character flaw. But I was in hot water now. Now, I was committed. As I walked through my front door, the realization hit me like a ton of bricks: this was going to happen. Soon. Somewhere in my future I was going to let my Creative Writing teacher do very, very bad things to me. And now it was just a matter of time, a matter of playing it cool in these intervening moments.
Should I submit another story? Would he ask to see me again? Did the other students think I was a raging slut? I realized that their disapproval only seemed to add to the thrill of it. It was glorious. No longer was I just writing about these things, I was living them. He was right - words do have power. And the body can speak. And mine was saying, "more."
The next class, I felt close to fainting, like some kind of maiden with a heaving bosom in a bodice-ripper. Mr. Cain acted like nothing had even happened. He was so bland and dismissive I almost doubted my entire memory of the class before. This, together with how painfully boring Linda's piece was (even by her standards) and I was starting to lose hope as the end of the class approached. Maybe I had just embarrassed myself. Had I worn this tight little skirt for nothing? Had I agonized over which exact bra to wear just to go home and take it off again?
When it was my turn, I carried on with a reading from my short horror story, which seemed uninteresting to the other students in comparison to what had already passed; I couldn't drum up any enthusiasm for it either. But as the hour petered out and everyone started to pack away their books and disperse, Mr. Cain cleared his throat and said to nobody in particular, "Michelle, could you please stay after class for a moment, please?"
In that split second, my entire body pulsed with an "oh god yes!" but on the surface, I tried to feign indifference and only muttered, "sure," also to nobody in particular. He nodded once and the other students floated off.
As the last student left the classroom, he still had his back to me, fussing with some papers on the desk - that desk that I couldn't look at anymore without my mind wandering. I sat deathly still in my chair, trying to will my heartbeat to calm down. Clasped in my lap was a new and updated story, longer by 2000 words and overflowing with tension, among other things.
Late into the night before, I had slaved on a new version of the story, one where the girl teases, and teases, and teases... She pushes too far, and she gets "punished", her young body bearing the brunt of her sexual hubris, like some whore-ish character in a Greek tragedy. In other words, it was an amateurish hot mess. But, as they say, know your audience. I wanted Mr. Cain to read himself in those pages. And me. I loved the feeling of control I had over him, how I had immobilized him in his seat with just a look, just a suggestion. It was a power I was just feeling out the corners of; a power I did not intend to use wisely that day.
But something about the way he kept his back to me now was making me nervous. I shifted uncomfortably in my seat, waiting. What was he doing? Should I say something?
"You've written another draft of your story?" he said, still not turning to face me.
I waited as long as I could before replying. "Yes."
"Read it to me."
The force in his voice sent happy tingles all over my body.
I waited again, not wanting to lose this moment yet, this sweet moment where anything could happen. I examined my fingernails with feigned boredom.
"Make me," I said.
Slowly, he turned to look at me with something like a smirk on his face. His serious demeanor from the class was entirely gone, replaced with something much rougher, something I didn't quite recognize.
"What did you say?"
He took a step towards me. He was genuinely surprised. I loved feeling that I had overstepped his boundaries. Loved the feeling that I could puncture his self-assured exterior and really shake him. I loved the feeling that this was all very, very wrong. Twisted, even.
"I said, if you want me to do anything, you'll have to make me."
I was proud of how womanly my voice sounded, and how firm. But inside, I was nothing but hot jelly, and if he had touched me at that moment I'm sure I would have exploded into a million pieces.
He riveted his eyes to mine, and they were two hard drills, boring deep into the core of me, challenging me.
"Ok," he said, and before the word had left his lips he lunged towards me and snatched the folder from my grasp, flinging it in one smooth movement to the ground. The papers inside scattered onto the floor, the "All of me, twisted" title spinning across the polished floor. My useless hands still hovered in front of me, the rest of my body frozen in terror.
He turned to me and took one slow, searing glance all over my entire body. Could he tell that every part of me was humming and snapping with electricity ...or was it fear? The thrilling rush moving all over the surface of my skin spoke so quickly I couldn't tell whether it was oh god yes or just oh god. He stood in front of me, my eyes level with his belt and lightly freckled forearms hanging down loosely.
"Stand up. Or, if you like, I can make you stand up," he said in a voice like iron.
Instinctively, I obeyed. I tried to look at his face, but it was as though there was a force field preventing me from meeting his eyes. I shuddered.
"Look at me."
I looked. He returned a gaze so hard and penetrating that I turned away again, embarrassed by how much it embarrassed me.
"Take off your shirt" he said, easily. With shaking fingers, I worked each button, feeling as though his laser-like gaze was the reason for how hot I suddenly felt. With a nervous shrug, I let the shirt slip to the ground. The scars along my arms were exposed, but they seemed so faint now, nothing but pale ghosts from the past.
"And your bra," he continued, and I did as I was told. The cool air on my breasts sent goosebumps all down along my back. With my gaze glued to the floor and a thick shield of hair hiding my face, I still felt his eyes crawling over every inch of me.
He grabbed my wrist and twisted me around, and in a second he had unzipped the back of my skirt and I felt the flimsy material flutter down over my legs and to the ground to join the rest of my modesty. Placing one heavy hand on my hip, he seemed to be sizing me up. I felt the warm air of his breath over my back as he caressed carefully, first one cheek and then the next.
"Go and pick up your story, now, and read it to me" he said, and his words were beginning to sound hypnotic. I stepped out of my clothes and went to the corner of the room where the papers had crumpled, completely naked but for my panties, and slowly bent over to pick them up. I gave him a full, slow view of my butt as my knees bent, briefly touched the floor and bounced back up again. I felt him watching.
Placing a page on the desk, back still to him, I started to read. I was desperately trying to conceal my shaking voice, feeling more exposed than I ever had in my life, and yet somehow relishing the sensation. I wanted him to see me. All of me. Twisted. I had gone no further than a few sentences before he stopped me harshly, "Don't read that. You know what I want to hear."
I took a deep breath and found the paragraph I knew he wanted. I wanted it too. In a faltering voice, I instead began reading about the heroine splayed open on the chair, legs spread, the hero violating her completely. As I read, I felt every last sliver of my resistance slipping away, till my mind had warmed to the idea.
From the very moment I had written those words, I had secretly wanted them all to come true, but it was only here, naked in front of him, reading them out loud that I truly realized with a deep, painful ache throughout my entire body that I wanted this. I wanted it badly.
Some part of myself had led me to this twisted moment, even though I myself wasn't aware of it at the time. The realization of what was going to happen next sent a single bead of wetness rolling down the inside of my thigh. I was screaming on the inside. I reached the end of the paragraph, and let the silence close all around me; the words I had just spoken hanging in the air like an incantation that had conjured this dark, twisted moment.
"Is this how you want the story to go?" he asked. I could hear him breathing.
I nodded mutely, without looking at him.
"Then put your hands on the desk again."
I did, and gingerly raised my rear into the air as I had done in the class before. But this time, the stakes were much, much higher. This time, I had skin in the game. I squeezed my eyes shut and focused on each of the sounds behind me - the rustle of fabric moving against warm skin, the sound of him unzipping his trousers, of his steps coming closer towards me.
Again, he placed a full hand against my ass cheek, holding it there as though to pin me down. I relaxed forward and let my forearms fall onto the table, exposing the most vulnerable parts of my body to him. I felt the hard tip of his cock gently touch the opening of my pussy, and wait there. It was a question, a suggestion, but he already knew that every part of me was responding yes; I squirmed with anticipation - I didn't just want the tip, I wanted all of it.
But to my waggling hips, he only said, "That's what you want? Hm. But that's not how the story goes, does it?"
Oh, I knew how the story went all right.
I swiveled my head to see him easily thrust the length of his thick thumb into my pussy, right to the knuckle, and I arched my back in response. His dick bobbed menacingly against my ass, tracing wet trails on the skin there. I had never been so turned on in my life, and from so little. He slipped his thumb out again and dragged the moisture it had gathered slowly upwards, tracing a sticky line, anointing my ass with my own wetness. Just like that, he was a magician who had transferred the thrilling heat in my pussy to this other new, forbidden part of my body. A delicious warmth spread out over me. Nobody had ever touched me like that before.
Resting the pad of his thumb there for a moment, he then began to press tiny, insistent circles round my tight hole.
"But I'm scared," I said, surprising even myself with how unguarded I sounded.
"I know," he said after a pause, and resumed rolling and pressing. The warmth spread.
I pressed my cheek hard against the wood of the table and clenched my fists. I felt so small. Helpless.
I loved it.
"Is it going to hurt?" I asked, deliberately trying out my best damsel-in-distress voice. He took his time before answering; lovingly stroking my ass, as if doing so would help him figure out the answer.
"Hurt? Oh yes. It will hurt. A lot."
My pussy pulsed around his thumb, and he smiled quietly at this, picking up the pace.
"But we're going to stay true to the story. Don't worry, if you don't do it, I'll just make you."
Another pulse. With each passing moment, each stroke, he seemed to be bewitching my body, coaxing something dark and secret inside me to open up to him.
His cock was again between my ass cheeks, and now he took his time gliding the length of it all the way up, and all the way down again. And with each trip down, just as I was sure the swollen tip would catch and enter me, he pulled away and stroked once more, slowly, up and then slowly down again. The ache in my pussy was becoming unbearable - I reached around to touch my clit, but he swiftly slapped away my hands and then, on thinking about it for a moment, he grabbed both my small wrists in his left hand and pinned them against my lower back, the right hand still anchored against my butt, his dick sliding and teasing slowly up ...and then slowly down again.
"Tension, Michelle," he muttered, and pressed the weight of his body fully against mine. The feeling of his balls pressing into me was the only delicious relief I had; with my hands now pinned, I had to push my clit back against his body to soothe the infuriating pressure there. I needed the touch of his belly, something, anything. He playfully backed away, teasing me.
"That's what you want?" he said, and positioned the tip of his hot cock against the quivering opening of my ass, sinking just the tiniest length into me. I gasped and melted into a wash of goosebumps.
"...Then come and get it."
In those dizzying moments, my body was a whirring engine, rapidly working under wave after wave of pain, transmuting each thrill into deep, shuddering pleasure. He waited, sensing how I needed to adjust my body to him, around him.
My clit was longing again to be close to his body, to make contact with him and anchor myself against the waves. My elbows were beginning to hurt against the hard table. My feet were numb, a universe away.
"Come," he said again, beckoning, but the moment I tried again to lean back into him, was the moment I became aware of the full heft of his cock blocking my path, finding only resistance in my overwhelmed ass.
All at once I understood. Tension. Every fiber in my body wanted to move closer and relieve my poor aching clit ...but it came at a price. I took a deep breath, trying to gather myself. Sensing this, he leaned forward and showered my back with a sprinkling of soft kisses, kisses which seemed even more tender given that I was simultaneously impaled on his rock hard dick.
"Don't rush. Remember, you don't have to do it all at once. Go slow with me," he whispered into my ear. His gentleness seemed to relax me, and I opened further to him, my body thrumming in this new altered dimension of pleasure, of how utterly filthy it was to be fucked like this, here, by him. I wanted his body to change mine, to reshape me. I wanted the pain.
Tossing my head back, I edged back a few millimeters, taking more of him into my body. It was though the corresponding amount of air was displaced from his lungs and he laughed, "Good girl!"
I felt my ass relax further, growing accustomed to its new life as a source of pleasure, a vortex of sensation, an undiscovered thing that could be used. Or abused.
He ran his hand all along my sides and back, stroking out any threads of fear and resistance. We were pinned hard together, only the smallest of movements possible. In a moment, his thumb was in my pussy again, and my entire body responded joyfully. With easy strokes, he guided me closer and closer to an orgasm, but as I saw the edge of it, he pulled out, the tiniest tip of his thumb left touching me, teasing.
"Come," he beckoned again, and I took another deep breath, wanting with all my heart to follow that thumb and finally come, releasing myself from this torture. I leant back further, taking more of his thick cock into my ass, but at the same time winning more of his thumb too. Waves of pain and pleasure flooded through me, and I gasped. No sooner had I thought I was close again to my orgasm's edge, did he pull his thumb away again and plunge me again into desperation.
"Come," he said, more insistently. Almost the entire shaft was buried inside me now, so that I felt like a millimeter more and I wouldn't be able to breath anymore. Chasing his thumb had led me to the wide, painful base of his cock, and I realized with horror that I may not be able to go any further. I wanted so badly to come, but the pain in my wrists reminded me that I was going nowhere, and that if I wanted the sweet release of pleasure, I would have to take it with a hearty dose of pain.
His breathing seemed to deepen, and become irregular. I felt him throb inside me, seeming to grow and expand into every last corner of my body. I groaned at the thought of him enjoying it, enjoying my ass.
"You like this, you little slut? You like pretending to be all hardcore, but look at you now, huh?"
I tossed my hair. He wanted to hurt me, did he? Well, I could hurt him, too.
"You're an old has-been who will never publish his stupid novel, and all you do is live vicariously through your students," I said, the burning pain bringing hot tears to my eyes. Where the hell did that come from?
"You think you're so edgy don't you? You thi--"
"Whatever. At least I actually write, at least I'm not afraid" I said, shocked at this outburst, the pain making me reckless.
He paused. I saw the curve of my own tear drop on the table out the corner of my eye. I had gone too far.
"Well, you should be," he said. The next moment, he had drawn back slightly, gathered his force and threw himself hard at me, plunging the full length of an angry cock deep into me; I screamed out, my hips banging the edge of the table, the full weight of his manly body driving itself into me without mercy. I saw stars. In the moments that followed, the gathering bliss in my pussy came to one bright, delicious point and burst, sending heavy ripples of stinging pleasure all through me. My entire body bucked and twitched around him. As my poor ass clenched and grasped after him, I pulled him down with me into a juicy orgasm. He cried out too, defeated, spurting jets of wet cum deep into my body and squeezing down hard on my waist to pull in deeper still.
I collapsed onto the desk, body sore and soaked with sweat, and his body collapsed on top of mine. I welcomed the crushing sensation, feeling all at once that after what we had done together, I could let his body do anything to mine, endure any pain he wished to dole out ...and push far past it. I heard him panting in my ear, and we waited like this for a moment, for him to deflate inside me, for my heart to stop pounding in my ears and my pussy to stop twitching so violently.
Slowly, delicately, he slid out of my body and stood up, surveying the damage in the form of my crumpled body on the desk. He gave my ass a squeeze.
"You're still mixing your tenses in that third paragraph," he said.


Chapter 8 - Mr. Cain


I love it when a student has the grit to rise to a challenge. I love when writers can dig deep and confront their limits, pushing them to find what they're really capable of. Michelle was such a student. For the next three months, I pushed her. At the same time as her words were growing, enlarging, becoming more sophisticated, her body was opening up to me, until I could access even the deepest parts of her, easily.
And she really wasn't afraid. I hurt her. I used her body, over and over again, daring her to back down, but each time she accommodated me, somehow finding new levels of pleasure, nuances of feeling that even I, old has-been that I was, had never experienced. I admired her. And I loved completely wrecking her body, finding new ways to violate her little form, to overwhelm her, to punish her naiveté.
By the time the class came to an end, Michelle was an entirely different person. She had transformed into a noble explorer of new sexual worlds, of vast and fearsome horizons of pleasure, of new places, both profane and sublime ...that I had introduced her to, but which she had become native to in no time. My body had been new territory to her, but she had soon charted and laid claim to every last inch of it, so that I could only wish her well when the class was done and we had no more natural reason to spend time together.
That was also the last class for me. She had been right all along: I was hiding behind my students, being lazy, never pushing myself to write what I truly wanted, to take risks. It was scary, to force myself to do something I had never done before, but then I just remembered Michelle, face down in a pool of her own tears, ass upturned, utterly vulnerable to me and yet not the slightest bit fearful, and I thought, why not?
After all, tension is a good thing, isn't it?


- THE END -

* * *

Damaged - A Bad Boy Romance

Chapter One

"Alan! Oh my God, Alan! It's happening!"
My wife of 9 years, my beautiful, wonderful wife Tanya, was racing towards me with something small in her hand and a look of deep consternation on her face.
If the last few weeks have been anything to go by, I could be mere moments away from having a heavy kitchen implement thrown at me, or else pinned down and shagged - or possibly both, in that order.
Tanya is a woman who knows what she wants. And she wants a baby, preferably yesterday.
Everything else had been checked off the list: I was one of the first items on the list as the handsome, successful husband, and soon after me followed the autumn wedding, the house with just the right tiles in the kitchen, the pair of beagles we named Bubble and Squeak, the coordinated bedspreads, and the yearly trips to Bali.
I loved Tanya. With every (exhausted) fibre of my being. I gave her everything, and happily. And as I saw her rushing over, I had the distinct impression she wanted something, shall we say, very specific from me.
She pushed a mound of papers aside and plonked herself down on my desk, square in front of me as her one, true and rightful project in life. She waggled a thermometer right in my face, looking very excitable indeed.
"Look? See?"
She had just woken up, and was still sleepy-haired and sweet and smelling like cotton pajamas. I loved her nearly half to death, this woman. But it was 6 in the morning, and I was bone tired. I rubbed my groggy eyes, trying to focus on what in god's name she was showing me.
"Plus! Egg whites. I have egg white mucous. Raised temperature, egg whites... this is it. It's happening right now," she said, leaning in very close and whispering this last part to my still slightly confused face.
"You're ovulating?" I said.
Men are oblivious, I know. She had been going on and on about her... secretions for the past week now, and I, unsure about my manly part in what seemed so clearly "woman's business" was trying to be supportive while hoping she wouldn't ever quiz me on the difference in viscosity between Day 12 discharge and Day 20.
I smiled weakly, trying to remember if "ovulation" is the part that involved blood or not. Before I could say anything, she had tossed the thermometer aside and had hoisted her butt onto the desk, plunking her two bare feet into my lap.
"We should totally do it!"
"What, now?"
"Yes now, silly! The window is closing, Alan, even as we speak. And once it closes, that's it for this particular egg, you know. Whoosh, gone, down the tubes, as it were."
I loved how she spoke like an indignant professor whenever she got pissy with something.
I ran my hands up and down her thighs, probably soothing myself more than anything.
"Alright, alright, but how long have we got?"
"The egg is only viable for 12 to 24 hours. We can make it a few days before or after, but really now's the time, now's our best chance."
Egg? Viable? Was this the same woman who had once whispered dirty words in my ear in the back of a cinema when we were in High School? The same woman who had jerked me off under a picnic blanket at that festival that one time, the girl who had flashed her boobs at me in church at my niece's wedding?
I stared at the papers she had shoved aside - council tax, credit card statements, interest rate changes, bills for that damn broken boiler - and now here was beautiful, wonderful Tanya, reduced to another one of my chores, it seemed.
My work schedule for the last while had been the same every day: work myself to the bone, try to fix up our piece-of-shit house, replace that broken tile in the bathroom, get Tanya pregnant.
I was tired.
She sat staring at me, legs slightly parted, a few wild strands of hair falling into her waiting face. Her hazel eyes, the soft curl of her lip, they were all as beautiful to me now as they had ever been. And yet...
"Ok. Let's do it," I said, smiling.
I would give this woman the world. And good god if she needed it, I would dig deep and find it in me to fuck her, right now, and give her all the damn babies she could handle. I lunged forward and grabbed both her legs, pulling her onto the desk and laying her down.
"Ouch! Careful," she mumbled, revealing a pointy paper weight she had landed on.
She lay back and shot me a flirty smile. Oh yes. God yes. There it was. The gorgeous, sexy little thing I had married. Her hair fell onto the desk and her pajamas fell loosely open. The word mucous popped into my head.
Shit.
I leaned in and kissed her passionately, as though this would help dispel the thought. Ok, so if we started now, and it's probably around 6 o'clock right now, or ten minutes past... so if we take 15 minutes to get this over with, I'd still have a chance for a quick shower and would make it to work if I left by 7... but what if we took longer than 15 minutes?
I snapped my attention back to the moment and kissed her some more.
"Ouch!" she said again, and tore her lips from mine to fuss behind her some more, the sound of bills crumpling beneath her.
"You ok?" I asked.
She smiled.
"Yeah, sure, but uh..."
"Shall we go upstairs instead?"
"Uh, yeah, we could? I mean, let's just--"
"Yeah, you're here now, now's the time isn't it?"
"Yup, we should be spontaneous about it."
We looked at each other.
I leaned in for another kiss, this one more strained than the last. I thought of her naughty, tanned brown legs under a sundress on our honeymoon, the way she had run away from me on the beach, laughing, the dress whipping all around her in the wind. The dim memory was stirring something down below, thank god. I pressed my cock against her; it was the beginning of an old, old dance I had been doing with Tanya for years now, the familiar choreography, the well-worn, happy ruts we had carved out for one another, affectionate patterns in both body and mind. I'm more or less an idiot with most things in life, but hell, I knew what turned this woman on.
But somehow, here, spread on the desk, everything was wrong. Our lips were out of sync with one another. A cramp was growing in my calf as I try to balance myself over her (when was I going to go to the fucking gym already?) and she seemed to be distracted.
She was suddenly pulling at my hair, tugging at clumps of it and manhandling my head as she kissed. She threw her head back and moaned,
"Oh, yes, give it to me daddy!"
What.
I sat up straight, looking at her.
"Daddy?"
She flicked a lock of hair from her eyes, looking a little embarrassed.
We struggled to make eye contact with each other for a few moments more, then she threw up her hands defensively, sending two pay slips to the floor.
"Ok, I'm so sorry, jeez, I'm just ...I'm just trying something new I guess, because of the ...baby? I don't know, just forget it."
She was turning a deep shade of red, and started to pull her nightdress down again.
"No, no, it's..." I started. The word "mucous" popped into my head again."...it's hot. I guess," I said limply.
She glared at me.
I leaned in again for another kiss, but she shoved me away and jumped off the desk, looking angry.
"Just forget it," she said and made for the office door.
Damn.
She turned around in the doorway and looked at me with eyes full of daggers. "I'm going to the shops in a bit - do you need anything?"
I looked at her tired face. I wanted to curl up in bed with her right now, and forget all of this, and play Angry Birds with her under the covers with our own patented system of kiss penalties, like we had done only last year.
"We need milk," I said softly, with as much affection as I could muster.











She turned and left.
"And a baby would be nice," I muttered to myself after she'd left.


Chapter Two


I'm what you'd call an old fashioned guy, I guess. If there's anything they don't make anymore, it's guys like me. Think of every mildly sexist joke and groan-inducing stereotype about men and women and, well, you have a pretty accurate picture of who I am. I like big boobies and fast cars and movies with robots and dinosaurs in them... although not if they're too long. So sue me.
Every severely right-brained male specimen eventually gravitates to their own little niche, and my niche was engineering, where my other manly colleagues were more than happy for me to merely grunt at them for weeks, or come into work with the same shirt I did yesterday. I'm not too good with the written word, or social stuff, but I have a fair idea of how the world actually works, and what I know is that it needs people like me ...especially when a part of it breaks.
I'm the type who thinks that a perfectly reasonable response to "does this make me look fat?" is, "aren't you always as fat as you actually are, though?" and I'll admit I'm a bit miffed that the consensus seems to be against me in these cases.
I understand machines. I can glance at an engine or a circuit board and see into its soul, but people... they're a little trickier. My wife was something of a black box to me, although she was goofy and big-hearted enough to see my shoddy social skills for what they were: innocent. Figuring out the mysterious ins and outs of her unknowable female mind was an ongoing project for me, but after 9 years, I had made her happy, in the ways I knew how.
And giving Tanya things was one of the greatest joys in my life.
I hammered and filed down a penny to make her engagement ring and gave it to her in a box I chiselled myself. I gave her my secret recipe for chicken soup and made it for her whenever she was sick. We had bought a house together and every renovation, every new coat of paint, every nail and plank was for her. I wanted to build our life together, one piece at a time, with my own hands, and I wanted her right in the middle of it all.
In school I had given her my math homework to copy. Behind the bicycle sheds, we gave each other our tongues and our secret, hopeful dreams. I gave her bunches of daffodils, pink socks, a locket with a tiny "T" on it. As we grew older, I gave her my body, and she accepted it, willingly, and gave me hers. Everything I am, everything that I will be, I wanted to lay it at her feet, to give it to her, to make her smile.
And now, more than anything, she wanted this goddamn baby. And I had to find a way to give it to her. I sat at work all that day, chewing a pen to pieces and staring at my computer. Ovaries and cervical mucous were most certainly not my area of expertise, it was true. But if she wanted a little baby, well, then I would just have to find out how to give her one, wouldn't I?


Chapter Three


It was a real bastard of a day. The kind of day where you work and work and get sweet fuck all to show at the end of it. I was grumpy, headachey and in no mood for... well, anything really.
I came home a tiny bit later than usual, and Tanya had beat me to it. She was sweet, flitting around with dinner, chatting about this and that, but even I, oblivious as I am, could sense an extra tension, something like the weird change in air pressure you get before a big storm.
We slipped easily into our weekly night routine, a routine that had been my home for all these years as much as these walls, this furniture. She cooked, we ate, we did that married people thing where we snuggled on the couch and watched stuff on TV, half carrying on conversations started hours or even days ago. I'm a simple guy, like I said. I guess to an outsider I must seem like some kind of caveman, pleased with his woman and his dinner and his warm couch and not thinking too much further than that.
Something about this morning had scared me though.
Was she really happy? Getting bored in a marriage always seemed like one of those things that other, less vigilant people have to worry about. People who never loved each other as much as we did. But... well, let's just say this wasn't the first time I had been surprised by how unhappy she really was.
At work, I was most often the most competent person in the room, but when it came to Tanya... I hate to admit it, but there were times when I felt as though I'd been rudely awakened from a dream, where I'd hurt her without knowing, and part of the hurt was not realizing what I had done. She had stared hard at me on a drive home from her mother's once, fighting back tears and eventually spitting out, "well?"
Well, what? I didn't know. In fact, I never figured that one out. Maybe I'm a little autistic. Maybe there are vast fields of emotional nuances pulsating all around me, hidden but woven all around and through my life while I sit oblivious... until it's too late, of course.
I looked at her now, tucking into a bowl of pasta. Did she blame me that we had failed to conceive? I looked at my own bowl of pasta. Was it my fault?
She pushed her food away and smiled at me warmly.
"I bought something new today. Wanna see?"
I nodded, and she bounced off the couch and left the room, ponytail bobbing. When she came back a few minutes later, she was wearing a truly tiny pink lingerie set and nothing else. I could do nothing but stare for a few moments, a little stunned.
It was in just the style I liked - the teeny kind with strings that tie on the side - and it fit her like a glove. The top was two little triangles that stretched over her high breasts, tied together with two similar strings at the back of her neck. A few wispy hairs at the nape of her neck had gotten tangled in the makeshift knot.
I swallowed down the lump in my throat. "Wow. That's... nice," I said, standing up and reaching out to her.
She raised her long arms up into the air and spun around, letting me grasp at her slight waist.
She had a fantastic body.
"It's so nice, I almost want to just tear it off and throw it away, you know?" I said to her sleek flank as I lowered my head and began kissing her bare belly.
Tanya had two modes: one was her summer form when she went brown as a biscuit, and speckled with freckles, and the other was her winter form when she turned so pale she was almost translucent, and you could make out tiny blue and purple thread veins on the tops of her pixie-like thighs, on her shoulders, on her inner ankle. She was in the latter mode, and extra pink in the slightly chill air, and her body was responding to my compliments with tight little goose bumps.
"Throw it away? Ugh, you have no sense of art," she said, and broke away from my grasp, striking a pose on the other side of the coffee table and then waggling a teasing hip in my direction.
"Just look, it has tiny diamantes on it," she said and turned around to show me some sparkly crap on the back strings.
"Diamantes? Is that like... diamonds?" I said.
She threw a cushion at me.
"Brat!" I said and darted to catch her.
She dashed off to the adjacent room, her pert little ass jiggling behind her.
"Yes, like diamonds, but only not really."
I seized her again and pinned her against the living room wall, smiling triumphantly. "Not really huh? A bit like this is a serious, dignified bra, only not really."
I reached behind her and undid the knot, and the fabric went loose across her chest. She giggled as I kissed her, both of my hands still restraining her pale wrists above her. She arched her back off the wall, curling her full body up into mine.
There is a whole catalogue I could write of all the things I loved to do to this lovely woman's body, any number of filthy, beautiful things; one of my favorite was also the simplest: I loved taking her little chin in my hands as I kissed her, and I did this now, from there dragging my hands down her long neck and onto her belly, putting a finger just so inside the edge of this ridiculous G-string, pulling it ever so gently away from her body.
She playfully slapped my hands away.
"No, I think at least this should stay on..." and she looked deeply into my eyes.
"This?"
"Yeah."
"You want to keep it on?"
"Yeah."
With a single, swift movement I picked her up, squealing, and carried her to the sofa, the flimsy triangle top falling to the floor as a casualty.
She was light and a breeze to carry, easily half my weight, her little heart beating in her body like a rabbit's. I flung her onto the sofa and pounced down onto her. Already, her quick hands had found their way to my zip and were yanking my pants off. My body responded easily to hers, our system of sexual shorthand refined over the years, after the countless nights spent here, learning about each other's body's just as we learnt about ever other thing in life. She was my home, this woman; her warm little breasts, her supple torso and downy white skin... her gorgeous cunt.
I tore of my pants and shook them to the floor, and lay completely over here, nestled in her sweet-smelling hair. After 9 married years, our bodies were like easy puzzle pieces, and I could find my way into her in the dark by now (and frequently did, of course).
The tip of my cock pressed gently against her belly, and she rose up to meet it, rubbing against me as we kissed and caressed one another. With slow, lazy strokes, I glided my hands over her and casually parted her legs; raising her limber knees high into the air, exposing her white rump and little pink rosebud pussy hidden behind the slight patch of fabric, also pink.
The scent of her drove me utterly wild; an intoxicating, honeyed mix like fresh, metallic ocean water. Like a rock pool but with something so warm and delicious and gooey at its heart; and my dick bounced in anticipation.
Grabbing a hold of her hips, I angled her towards me and pressed my adoring face into her, drinking up her scent and thrilled to be so close to this part of her, this deep well of her body that I wanted to fall into and drown in and never return.
"Fuck yes..." I mumbled into the sweet folds of her, and I felt the tension in her lower body melt away. Pulling the pink slip of fabric to the side, I planted one, luscious kiss and her hips tilted up in simple gratitude.
She rested both her hands on my head and anchored herself there as my tongue set to work, opening her up further with each kiss, with every ripple and flick of a tongue well-trained to each and every loop and fold of her pleasure. With each of my hands spreading the mounds of her ass apart, I tasted her loosening up, inviting more.
I had first done this to her ages and ages ago, in the back of my old beat up car when we had furtively stolen moments with each other, and it was there that I first learnt the fine art of pleasing her; in a way her body was a machine, a beautiful and complex one, and with patience and skill I had learnt to work it and manipulate it, to open all its secret doors, learnt all the ways it loved to be caressed and nibbled at, held, kissed, even joyfully and brutally violated...
Her clit twitched in my mouth - the sign that I could now dip my tongue into that dripping hole, and flicker around that tight, wet spot that I knew so well. She groaned. I smiled, even though she was too preoccupied by this point to notice.
With a giggle, she pulled my head up towards hers and gave me a long, luxurious kiss, and gave me that burning look that could only mean one thing. Linking her lovely legs around my back, she pulled herself towards me and I sunk the shaft of my cock into her, easily, her slick body offering no resistance.
She was smiling a ludicrously naughty smile at me, all sidewise and twisted, when she said, "Hmm... let's make it count this time..." and thrust herself up to meet my hips.
What? Make it count? I found myself sucked out of the moment. She pulled me down again into a wet kiss and I obliged her, lavishing her lips and cheeks ...but what did she mean? Was she still stuck on this baby business?
Tanya had always been particularly skilled at, shall I say, proactive fucking, and she knew her way around a dick, that's for sure.
I hovered over her and her hungry body was curling, arching up to meet mine in long, liquid thrusts. With each downward stroke, her muscles sucked down on me, and with each upward thrust, the full length of my dick disappeared into her to the hilt, her pert little pussy lips swallowing me easily.
Is that all this was to her, though, a baby-making exercise? Talk about pressure. I was completely focused on nothing but her in this moment... and all she could think about was milking me for sperm? I was out of the moment again.
I turned to look at her and met her frank gaze.
"What's wrong?"
"Nothing."
We both looked down.
Oh, there was something wrong. I had deflated completely, my sad dick hanging there, the visual equivalent of the sound a balloon makes when all the air whizzes out of it. You didn't have to be an engineer to see that it would definitely fail a structural viability assessment.
"Ah... sorry..."
I know, I know, men always say that it never happens to them, but me? Well, it never did. Not really. But once we were at that point, I couldn't turn around. The spell was broken and all I saw around me was some cheesy knickers and a pretty shriveled looking todger that I wanted to put away as fast as possible.
"Do you want me to...?" she made a half-hearted gesture but I waved her off. I already basically had to kill her for this, what with her being the only witness and all.
"Nah, nah, don't worry, it's late anyway."
When you're married, you're never that far away from the edge of some urgent thing that takes precedence over sex, it seems. It's too late. It's too early. You have to go to work. You have to go to sleep so that you can go to work the next morning.
"I'm sorry. It's my baby talk again," she started, but I tried to shrug and just make light of it.
"Nah, it's fine! I'm used to all the girls objectifying me. They look at me and all they see is my sexy DNA, you know?" I said, winking at her.
She smiled. But it was a fragile, faint smile.
"Yeah. Something about having to makes it difficult to want to, doesn't it?" she said.
I smiled, handing her back her pink bra.
"Here we go. It's pretty. I like the diamandos."
"Diamantes, you big idiot," she giggled, and I kissed her.
As long as I could keep kissing her, I guess, we'd figure out a way.


Chapter Four


"Now, if you like a bit more heft to the thing, if you want a meatier feel, then I'd say go for this one..."
I wanted to get out of there, like, five minutes ago. A badly overweight guy in an ironic band t-shirt was showing my sweet, lovely wife an orange silicone penis, turning it over in his hands to demonstrate how it was weighted inside to make it more "realistic".
Tanya isn't the type to be blasé about sex, or chat about intimate details with strangers... but here she was, nodding and smiling, her deeper need for a good bargain trumping all, I suppose.
When I was younger, sex shops had always seemed so thrilling. I only saw one for the first time we came to London and we had all laughed at the blow up dolls and dirty old men behind the glass. This time round, it didn't seem quite so much fun. Oh God, I thought with horror, was I the dirty old man behind the glass now?
"Love, can't we just do this online?" I said to her ear, carefully trying to avoid meeting the fat guy's gaze.
She looked at me, little hands wrapped around the bobbly shaft of... I don't know actually.
"I mean, we could, but I wanted to come here in person, it's fun. Plus, I get to see the things up close, you don't want to buy junk, you know."
She smiled at me, adding, "and I don't want to accidentally get something too big. You know I'm a bad judge of these things."
She was right; she did have terrible visuo-spatial skills.
The fat guy was nodding along. Yep, he had seen it all, this guy. He had that strange sort of immunity that gay men have around women. Change the context a little and he'd be a sex pest, but here he was, instructing my wife on the pros and cons of girthy toys versus longer ones, and everyone thought it was just fucking dandy.
"Love, look around and see what you like - you pick one thing, I pick one thing, remember? We agreed," she said.
Not only had we agreed, we had pinky promised, so I harrumphed and went off into the rest of the shop, steering well clear of the butt stuff. It was walls and walls of pink, desperate body parts, some DVDs, a rack of sequined skirts. Diamantes? I had no idea. There had to be a more efficient way to do this. I whipped out my phone.
"Hey love, I've decided on my thing," she came and cooed in my ear.
"Oh?"
She took a purple box she had been hiding behind her back and showed me excitedly.
"They're special balls see, on a string. You put them in, you put them both in, then they come out again..."
"Then you put them in again?" I asked.
"And then they come out again" she said.
I snatched the box from her and examined it.
"What? Why don't they put some sort of stopper here so they don't fall out all the time?" I teased.
She playfully flicked my arm. "Over-analytical engineer" was one of our oldest and most cherished games.
"Don't worry, I'm just ribbing you. For your pleasure, you know." I jiggled my eyebrows at her and she erupted into happy giggles.
"You big idiot! Go on then, what did you choose?"
"This," I said, and showed her a screen on my phone.
"Wait, what's that?"
She grabbed the phone from my hands and looked closely at the screen. A simple, black leather dog collar with a single large, intimidating steel ring clasp as its front. I love well-made hardware.
"Ooh, that's nice... is it in the shop though?' she said looking dubiously at me.
"Yup. But it's £4 cheaper on Amazon. So."
"But love! Why did we come out here if you can just sit at home and get Amazon to deliver everything?" she whined.
"What, and miss the opportunity to hear Romeo over there talking about meaty dildos? Never."
She tried to conceal a smile.
"Fine. We'll just have to play with my toy first, then."
We left the shop.
I like a good Gantt chart as much as the next man, and one of the things I love most about Tanya is her relentless, painfully efficient, list-making, color-coordinating, everything-must-be-right streak. All the same, I had a sneaky suspicion we were just throwing tools at the problem.
Surely normal sex is just as good at making babies as kinky sex? Anyway, couldn't we just build a baby slow cooker or something? Couldn't we adopt one from China? I felt a sense of dread descending as we arrived home that Saturday afternoon. We had never had sex on schedule before. Yet there it was hanging over us now, like overdue laundry. It felt all wrong. And contrived. I felt a small part of myself rebelling.


Chapter Five


Sweat was pouring from my forehead; every vein on my skull felt like it was about to explode. She wanted a baby, I'd give her a fucking baby all right.
I had her pinned against the bed, her legs nearly behind her ears, and was buried far up into her, both our bodies red and clenched from the effort.
My mind flashed back to a hot summer day on the beach, when Tanya and I had snuck into the little wooden beach huts and she sucked me off while a line of kids waited outside to change out of their wet swimsuits. Just as I was sure somebody could make us out through the thin gaps between the slats of wood, she had pulled my dick into her throat and swallowed once, hard, sending me easily over the edge. She smiled naughtily up at me as I tried to be silent, thumping a fist against the cramped wooden walls.
"Is there somebody in there?" someone had said, and she went in again to suck out the last pump of cum. God she was beautiful then. She could make me explode just by looking at me sideways. In our early twenties, my life's mission was to hold on long enough to squeeze those sweet, sweet orgasms out of her; I never anticipated a future where I'd be struggling to eke out any orgasm at all.
Today was the last day of the "fertile window", measly day 5, and she was pissy with me even though she said she wasn't, and I was pissy right back, even though I said I wasn't. I was being a little rough now, sure, but fine. If she wanted me to be some stupid breeding stud pony, well, then she could shut up and take it.
We had used toys, we had watched movies, we had nearly broken our necks sharing a shower. Our sex had taken on that weird, stubborn vibe of a long distance marathon just before things start to get ugly. We were going to procreate, dammit, come hell or high water.
I made a few more angry thrusts then released a load into her, aware that I was probably pulling some rather unflattering faces. I flopped down beside her, knackered.
She did not look happy. I couldn't believe it. I had huffed and puffed myself nearly to a coronary and she was lying there still, as irritated as we when we started. What did she want?
She cleared her throat.
"I've booked an appointment with the fertility specialist," she said to the ceiling.
"What, why?" It seemed like a stupid question once I had said it.
"It's been more than 6 months now. Something should have happened by now. I'm not that old. Something's wrong. We need to take the next step now."
I listened quietly.
"Are you sure you're not just jumping the gun? Maybe this was the lucky time, eh...?" I said, reaching for her. She shot a dry look at me.
"But pudding, come on, this is part of the problem. You're so stressed. And you're stressing me out. Can't we just go with it? Enjoy ourselves? It'll happen."
"But it isn't happening now!" she snapped.
Oh shit. I was going to make her cry.
"Love, just calm down. We need a break or something, you and me both. We should go somewhere..."
I scooched up closer to her and propped myself up on my arm, looking at her imploringly. "Let's go on a holiday, you and me, and we'll forget about work and ovulation and whatever for a while and just enjoy each other again. People always get pregnant when they just relax a little."
"I'm done relaxing," she said, with a spite in her voice that was unusual for her. Almost instantly, she melted again and hugged me, her tangled hair tumbling onto my chest.
"Oh, I'm sorry!" she said, "I don't mean to be like this. I'm just ...I want a baby Alan. I'm ready for it. Now."
We sat like this for a few moments, nothing but the sound of the neighbour's telly to break the silence.
"Love, don't worry. We will have a baby. Book an appointment. The doctor will probably say everything's just fine... will you go on a holiday with me then?"
I gave her a cheesy grin, trying to cheer her up.
"Ok," she said and nestled into my chest.


Chapter Six


I've worked on some pretty complex machines in my life, honestly, but nothing compares to girl bits, and that's the god's honest truth. Tubes, frilly open pieces, what looks like a one-way valve but totally isn't--
"Look at me," I said, "I'm Ovaria, and I've come to fetch your soul, mortal."
I was brandishing a plastic uterus model as a face mask, each fallopian tube making fabulous impromptu feelers. The middle bit made a pretty hilarious nose, if I did say so myself.
"Jesus, you're such a two-year-old Alan, can you put that down?" she said.
"Negative! I will shoot you with my mucous lasers instead. Pew pew!"
Ovaria, queen of the vaginas, waggled menacingly at her. The doctor walked in just then, because of course he fucking did. He laughed.
"Well, you'll have to get used to dealing with two year olds at some point or other," he said as I hurriedly put the plastic model back on the table.
I couldn't believe we had reached this point, to be honest, and everything still felt so unreal to me. Was this really necessary? Wasn't this for people very much older and sicker than we were? I could still remember my thirtieth birthday, and the XKCD birthday cake Tanya had made for me. We had spent almost a decade furiously avoiding impregnation - how come it was so difficult all of a sudden?
"A lot of my job is actually to put people's minds at ease. To be frank that's really the bulk of what I do. We all like to work with these rules, you know, if you aren't pregnant after 6 months or a year or whatever, then something's wrong. Of course, nature doesn't always work like that."
It had the ring of a well-practiced speech. Tanya was hanging onto every word he said, though. Oh sure, she listens when he says it. Doctor Melville had kind, tired eyes and was squaring up the edges of a prescription pad on his desk before he continued.
"Your cycle is a little irregular, but it's not anything we're concerned about yet. We don't see any irregularities with you, Alan, so it's thankfully not a question of sperm quality."
The last few months had felt like one long, arduous exam and here was my report card: we have examined your balls etc. and have found them sufficiently lacking in irregularities. Why thank you.
"So..." Tanya was leaning forward now, a little too dressed up you'd think, for a time like this.
"So, what that means going forward is that you're not a candidate for any of the options we discussed at our last appointment, as least not for a long time yet," he said.
I watched a small, wire like vein twitch in her neck.
"The good news is that it's quite likely nothing to be concerned with at the moment."
We both sat and waited for the bad news. Ovaria, queen of the vaginas, watched with bated breath as well.
"The bad news is that it's not always possible to pinpoint the exact cause of why you haven't conceived yet. But in my experience, it's almost always the little things, you know. We spoke about lifestyle issues the last time, but it bears repeating. Sleep. Good food. Plenty of rest. That kind of thing."
"She really isn't resting much," I blurted, feeling like a tattle tale.
"Yes, well, that's a problem now, isn't it? Maybe you could both try a little holiday somewhere or something, sometimes that kind of thing can help."
I sent her over the best I-told-you-so face I could muster.
We finished the rest of the appointment, me entertaining myself by calculating how much we had paid this man per each minute of his time, and calculating how many fannies he'd seen in his career, given his advanced age and all.
I was feeling chipper, glad it was over and glad to be told, like I had said, that there was nothing wrong after all. It was a relief. I playfully poked her in the belly as we stood waiting for the lift.
"See? Didn't I say?" I said, and leaned in for a kiss.
She pursed her lips and looked irritated. Oh God ...what now?
I was getting angry.
The one thing the doctor was telling her to do was the one thing she simply refused to do. I had the completely unreasonable but steadily growing suspicion that she'd get pregnant if she just calmed down a bit and stopped being so uptight about the whole thing. I already felt like a performing monkey in some twisted circus, and she had long stopped seeing sex as something pleasurable. In fact, I thought angrily, we probably hadn't had normal sex since the day she mentioned having a baby at all. Surely we'd have enough time for angst and stress later, when the thing was actually born?
I drew back, fuming a little.
"The doctor said it wasn't my sperm, you know."
"What's that supposed to mean?"
"Nothing... just that there isn't a problem. We just need to relax and--"
"Jesus Christ, if one more person tells me to relax I swear I'll scream," she snapped.
We walked down to the car in silence. I just wanted things to go back to the way they were. We were good together. We had our house. We were meant to live in it together. None of this worked without her. Life would be all wrong. There were way too many rooms in that house, for a start.
"I don't want to fight," I said lamely, starting the car.
"So then, don't," she said with a sneer.
I didn't like this nasty side of her. Not at all.
We drove on in silence for a while, both feeling a little tender. I was always better at pretending fights weren't going on than actually fighting them, so I relaxed a little as the car drove on, and we found a long, easy back road that would take us most of the way home.
I love driving. I love the simplicity of being in a vehicle, any vehicle really. I love just going, just the movement of it. Tanya and I had had some of our steamiest moments in cars. That reminded me.
"Hey, love! I forgot to say, I found the perfect thing for us, actually, a narrow boat cruise - we could maybe rent the whole thing pretty cheaply and then we sleep on it and everything, and we go up and down the river and we can have it self catering or not, it depends, and--"
"We're not going on a holiday," she interrupted.
Oh shit. She was still angry. From before. This was beginning to get exhausting.
"Look, what is your problem? Have I done something wrong?"
These words seemed to be the last straw for her, and she all at once and violently shook her wild hair and banged her hands against the car door.
"Just stop! Stop the fucking car! I want to get out."
"What?"
"Stop the car!"
I slammed my foot on the break and tried to carefully guide us onto the roadside before turning off the engine.
"Tanya, I don't know what's gotten into you, all I said was--"
"But why do you have to say anything at all? Can't you just leave me alone about it? Christ..."
"What are you talking about? You're crazy."
A look of pure fire flashed over her face.
"Yes, yes, I know. Crazy. And stupid, right? Don't bother telling me, I know. Sorry not all of us are so perfectly fucking rational. And now I can't even have a baby, it's fantastic."
Her chest was heaving in her thin cotton dress. She seemed flushed, only moments away from bursting into tears.
"Hey... hey, I don't think you're stupid," I said softly.
She looked at me, nostrils flaring.
"Why is this so hard?" she said eventually.
We sat there for a bit, both silently wondering if the other was blaming them for this weird mess we had gotten ourselves into. Her eyes were strange and unnervingly fluid. She had only had this particular look on her face once before, once many years ago, during a fight we had that I try not to think about anymore. They were melting eyes, eyes full of blame and accusation, and they tore at my heart to see them like that, and it hurt me so badly I couldn't stand looking at her.
She popped open the car door and stepped out suddenly.
"Hey, where are you going?" I said, but she was gone.
She was wearing one of her cotton sundresses again, except this particular afternoon wasn't quite the right weather for it. Hot and dry wind blew at the skirt and started to lift it up, tossing some of her loose hair as well. I got out and stood looking at her over the roof of the car.
What I loved about Tanya was precisely that she was so rational. That she never asked me to play weird guessing games with her emotions, or mocked me for being a bit slow on the uptake when it came to subtle social cues. Yet here she was, a moody wife that couldn't be placated. I had no idea what to do.
"Will you get back in the car?" I said.
"Will you stop telling me what to do?" she replied.
The wind was tearing at her dress, occasionally lifting it right up and giving a brief, full glimpse of her thighs underneath. Even now, even like this, she was the hottest thing I had ever laid eyes on.
"Ok," I said, "Just tell me what you want me to do. Anything. Tell me how I can make this better."
Her gaze softened. She walked over to my side of the car.
"Just hold me," she said, and I was more than happy to oblige. She flung urgent arms round my middle and held me tight, and I kissed the top of her head, her hair whipping in the wind around me. She mumbled something to my chest and then did something strange; pulling in closer to me, she made that familiar, almost kitten-like, hungry little push against my crotch, curling her pelvis softly into mine like she did when she wanted me.
I looked down at her and beamed.
"Hey now..." I said, a little surprised.
She giggled.
"Not so cross with me after all?" I said, and she responded with another pulse of her hips.
"So, you wanna...?" I said quietly.
"Mmm."
"Ok, let's get home, we're not too far now."
"No," she said simply.
"What?"
"Here."
Ah. Here. But, like, here here?
I smiled a cheesy grin, relishing the idea of rogering her right here, in the back seat in broad daylight when we had both taken time off work for a doctor's appointment. I moved to open the car door but she laid a simple hand over mine, stopping me.
"No... here," she said again.
She turned up a different face to me now; a leftover tear had seemingly been slashed across the side of her face by the wind, where it had dried. She had a deep, naughty look on her face, and in a heartbeat I was rock hard, thrilled at this sudden turn of events.
"Love, it's broad daylight," I said, although I can't think why I wanted to dissuade her at that point. She nodded.
"Who knows who will see us here?" she said and sent a pair of eager fingers to start working at my fly. A little rush of panic went through me. Seriously, what would happen if we were caught? My mind quickly tried to do an estimate of how many cars were likely to be on the road at this hour, and how many we'd encounter, the probability one of them would catch us, and how long it'd take to...
Unbelievably, my cock sprang out the second it was released, somehow doing its thing without a speck of permission from me. It felt wild to have the ordinary, weekday sunshine beaming down on it, right here, in public. She reached up to me and gave me a fitful, raunchy snog and quickly spun round, lifting her skirt up and pressing her rump square against my cock.
It felt amazing.
She skillfully pulled the narrow strip of her underwear to the side with one hand and with the other, clutched desperately at the billowing fabric of her dress, the wind blustering it in all directions. The image was so completely ridiculous, I couldn't help but laugh. Here she was, flaunting her little pussy at me with one hand and trying to maintain a ladylike bit of dignity with the other. Through windblown hair, she said, "quick, before anyone catches us..."
But what about foreplay? Was she ready? I didn't want to hurt her.
"Fuck me, you big idiot!" she said, and I didn't need another prompt. I drove my cock into her barely wet hole, and she cried out, whimpering a little. Well, she did ask.
"Love, are you ok?"
She hung her head heavy to one side and reached behind her to clutch at my hips. A low grunt was her only response. I felt the tiny ripples of her body waking up to me, shivering and puckering all around me. It seemed that within just a few seconds she was growing wet and plumping up all around me, right then.
It was incredible.
The hot afternoon sun beat down on us; we were all alone out here on this empty road - but for how much longer? She flicked her hair to the other side and pushed back into me, forcing my own hips to bump into the car behind us. She was quite a bit shorter than me, and as I settled the weight of my cock inside her, she had to rise to tip toes to reach me, balancing, fully impaled. I reached forward to steady her with a firm hand under her belly button. My fingertips found warm, dry skin there, and her delicate heartbeat fluttering inside her.
I looked down through the flapping rim of her sundress at the two milky mounds of her arse, and my dick disappearing between them. No sooner had her body adjusted to mine, did she start pumping her hips back in a quick, panicky rhythm. I clutched gently round her slight waist, to keep her from falling; she twisted around briefly to grin at me, then down at the growing ring of wetness at the base of my cock. She pumped down over me, enveloping my shaft in the most perfect, hot little envelope; then, pulling back again she exposed that wet length to the chill air, sending prickles out over my skin that travelled the full length of my spine. I let my head fall back a little, waves of pleasure fanning out through me. My beautiful wife. My little fuck machine. She thrust into my lap again and again, each pump bouncing a fat ripple through the flesh of her backside.
"Love... we'll get caught," I said, although nothing in the world could have torn me out of her hot pussy at that moment.
With each thrust she built up a delicious heat, so thrilling against the cold air, and with this heat we seemed to meld and fuse together. Like dogs rutting in the fucking streets, I thought, with a new mix of panic and glee.
With a supple, cat-like bend of her long torso, she reached back and nuzzled her cheek against mine.
"Good," she said.
I smiled. Naughty little bitch. Grabbing fistfuls of skin at her waist, I pulled her down savagely onto my dick, ploughing right into the middle of her lithe little belly, and held her down as she squealed and shook. I saw her desperately trying to lift higher up onto her toes, but gravity was on my side and she had nowhere to go but down, taking every last inch of me.
I was shocked at her. Did she want to be caught? My face flushed with the thought that my wife was a closet slut, a woman with nothing but a thin bit of sundress between her and a quick public fuck, like nothing was so normal in the world. Horny? Just pull over and shag, wherever you find yourself, like a little slut. She couldn't wait. She wanted my dick so bad she couldn't wait a few minutes for it, and now that we were in danger of being caught by strangers, she was dripping wet and grinding into me like an animal.
"You're being very naughty, dear," I said into her wind-whipped hair, and delivered my disapproval in the form of a string of quick, brutal thrusts. She had no air in her body to protest, and only fell forward limply, mouth half open, her little ballerina-like breasts hanging down in front of her loosely, inside her sundress.
So, let them catch us then. Let everyone see what a raging, dirty slut she was; let them look her right in the eye, and see her flushed face.
I thrust harder.
It would be my dick jammed so far up her she wouldn't be able to move now even if she wanted. This was my whore of a wife, let everyone look, and let them see how much she was loving it...
These thoughts were rushing over me, completely new and surprising. I was angry that she was being so careless - this wasn't like her at all - and angry that she was flaunting her body, her body that only I was supposed to see. With a confusing, faint sense of humiliation I pounded her even harder still, harder than I ever had, so that her little toes nearly came clean off the floor.
The ropes of her long hair were shaking with each blow of my hips into hers. I almost felt sorry for her - she had bitten off more than she could chew, poor little thing, and she was getting fucked to pieces now whether she wanted it or not. This woman in front of me somehow wasn't my wife anymore; and somehow I was entitled to pour abuse into her slender body, here, on the side of the road with nothing but a flimsy cotton dress covering her hungry little body.
"Love ...love ...a car's coming..." she squeaked. On the periphery of my awareness I heard a car approaching. Fuck. Fuck.
I picked up the pace to fever pitch and felt her fearful frame tighten and explode all around me into a hot, hurried orgasm. Her worn little pussy twitched violently against me and before I knew it I was tumbling after her, pawing at her belly and breasts.
"Oh god..." I said, exploding squirts of cum deep into her.
The car whizzed by. We were in public. In public.
Slack jawed, she twisted round to face the road, and I saw the slow movement of the car reflected in the wet curve of her eye. That moment lasted forever - the slow crawl of the car on the horizon, her body frozen like a startled deer, nothing but the sound of her hard breathing and harder heart beat. She was looking at them and I was looking at her. The bulk of her body was concealed by our pulled over car, but it was painfully obvious what we were doing, and even if she was covered up, her bare face told more than the full story to anyone caring to look.
"Oh god. They're staring right at me..." she said, spellbound and unable to pull away her gaze. Then, something magical happened. As the car's reflection disappeared out the one corner of her eye, her slack expression suddenly curled up, melting with a new wave of pleasure. She was coming. Again. All the tension in her body dissolved and her body crumpled down onto mine; long, vicious shudders worked their way through her exhausted frame. I stared down, thrilled to see dribbles of white streaming out of her.
She snapped her gaze from the road back onto my face, both of us stunned.
With a few hasty movements, she untangled herself from me and came off my dick, adjusted her clothing round her and smoothing down the skirt of her dress nervously.
I quickly zipped up.
Her hair was a mess.
We both stared down at the drops of cum in the sand, then back at each other.
In the 9 years we had been married, I had never seen such a wild look on her face.
We drove home in silence.


Chapter Seven


My wife's sexuality, it turned out, was something like those joke jack-in-the-boxes: tightly wound, and hard as hell to compress and fit back into the box once it popped.
There was this new room in our sex lives all of a sudden, and she was happily exploring every last inch of it. Pandora's box had been flung open. My wife's dirty mind was like a clown car - I was amazed by just how much came out of it - and kept coming and coming.
But I'm getting ahead of myself.
That evening after our trip to the fertility doctor was the starting point. She seemed wired, a little drunk, a little scattered. She smiled broadly every time our eyes met; all her movements seemed a little more urgent. She absentmindedly started to chop an onion and then tossed the knife aside, declaring we should just order in and that she felt like cider. She hugged me in the kitchen. "They were staring right at me," she whispered in my ear, for what seemed like the hundredth time that evening.
And why wouldn't they stare? She was a beautiful woman, in the throes of delicious, private pleasure. I loved how thrilled the idea made her, loved how buzzed she was. This was my wife, and with a softer, subtler realization I thought how proud I was of her. That they had looked her in the eye, and whatever bliss they saw on her beautiful face was because of me. I held her close. This was something new, something scary - something we hadn't done in years.
She spoke about it more later that evening, as we drank our cider, and as I watched those flickers of new arousal appearing in her eyes, I knew that I wanted to fulfill every last little dirty desire she could come up with; I wanted to be there, to be the one to fuck her in public like the little show-off she was.
"It is technically illegal, you know," I said, taking a sip.
She smiled.
"What if, like, they arrested us and threw us in prison and we just carried on fucking right there, in the prison cell?"
I laughed at the thought. There was something so cheeky about it.
"Then we just keep doing it, then we have to go to court, and we keep shagging in court as well, and nobody knows what to do with us," I said. Her eyes twinkled.
I relished the thought of her bare little rump, her illegally exposed pussy lips, and everyone horrified with us... it was strange. It was also very, very hot.
I took another sip. I loved it when we talked like this. This kind of pointless, loose banter that could go anywhere. We had done so much of this kind of thing when we were both in university. Why had we stopped?
"It really turned you on though," I said, with a new tone of voice. I reached over and stroked a lock of her hair.
"Yeah..." she said dreamily.
"But it wasn't just the thrill of being caught. We actually did get caught!"
She nodded, blushing.
She sat up in the chair and looked at me with a new intensity.
"It's hard to explain. There was just something so sexy about being there, with your dick actually in me, right there in the middle of sex, you know, and looking these complete strangers right in the eye..." she said, trailing off.
"You liked that they saw you."
"Uh huh."
"Saw you getting fucked."
She shot a quizzical look at me. We hardly ever swore around each other. At least, not like this.
She took a long, slow sip of her cider and stared a little. I could feel her thinking.
"I want to do it again." she said finally, and downed the rest of her drink.
I loved it. I loved this new reckless, naughty side of her. Sitting on the couch that evening, she was different somehow. Her hair was a little wilder, and her voice was a little higher pitched.
I reached out, wanting to hold her, to contain this new burst of energy somehow, and to hold it.
She turned up hungry lips to mine and kissed me. All at once, her body was pressing against mine again, and she was hurriedly tearing off her dress, that same naughty dress, the flimsy accomplice to all our crimes earlier that day. It was though all the new buttons we had pressed a few hours ago were still hot, still zinging with this surprising new energy we had stumbled on. Pushing them again felt easy, and all at once it was though she was turned on again, ready for more.
That evening, I learned something new about my wife, my beautiful, wonderful, gorgeous slut of a wife. I found myself irresistibly turned on by her; there was something so desperate, so urgent in this new side of her.
Animalistic.
She turned her back to me again, and my cock easily found the same passage I had opened earlier that day, and fucked her there again, hard.
She came easily, and I fancied I saw the slow roll of a tiny car over a horizon reflected in her eyes again. I could tell the memory of that day was fresh and aching in her memory still, still filled with juice, still an itch that she was nowhere done scratching. I clutched her beautiful hips in my hands and unleashed all my energy into her, driving everything I had into her flaming hot, tender core. She screamed, body bucking and throbbing, then, tossing the hair out of her eyes, she pulled her legs open even wider and begged for more.
I lost count of how many times she came that evening. After a while, the orgasms blurred into one, she stopped being coherent, her exhausted body eventually conceding defeat as she flopped down on the bed, one sweaty leg dangling off the edge. That morning, we both overslept by 30 minutes.
"Love! You'll be late for work, come on now, get up," I said in the rude morning light.
She nuzzled a dozy face into the pillows.
"Nah ...I'll call in sick. I'm staying home today. You know what, love? I think I do want to go on a holiday with you." She smiled.
I smiled back at this lovable sleepy lump, wrapped in our duvet. I was pleased. There's something primal and highly satisfying about fucking your wife so thoroughly that she has to call in sick from work the next day. Better still, she was finally coming round to the idea of a bloody holiday already.


Chapter Eight


"Toothbrush and toothpaste and things?"
"Check."
"Camera?"
"Check."
"Booking reference for that place?"
"Check."
"Viable egg, ready to be fertilized?"
"Don't even joke!"
She was looking as though she had already been on a luxurious Netherlands holiday. Her long hair was done up in some fancy braids she had been trying to replicate from Pinterest for years, it seemed, and a flowy embroidered shirt, little Denim shorts and a face that looked very much younger than its years.
We packed ourselves up, drew the blinds and locked up, temporarily leaving behind our little home and everything in there. It was fabulous, and both of us were light hearted, chattering all the way in the taxi to the airport. In the week it had taken us to organize this little trip, she had evolved fully into a proper little deviant, and I had already admitted to myself that the seeds of this particular fetish had always been there, right under the surface.
Almost overnight, she had become looser somehow, more expansive. In the evenings, we spoke dirty to each other - our new hobby - about what a little slut she was, and I fucked her raw, her new appetite for rough sex seeming never to be satisfied. In the day time, she seemed free and happy, wearing more revealing clothing than she used to, flitting around with just a little more fluidity than before, a little more sparkle to her voice somehow. I loved it, and was proud of her.
We had a full trip planned - walking tours, a special old church, a trip to the red light district (naughty!) and a restaurant she had been going on and on about. It was going to be perfect. Did I have The Baby in the back of my mind the whole time? Sure, I guess I did. But in a way, we were taking a holiday from that, too. Mercifully, she hadn't mentioned it in ages. I could write novels about that woman's pussy, but dear god was I sick of hearing about its multitude of discharges.
The first night we were too tired to do anything but fall asleep in each other's arms, in the hotel room. We had ordered room service after a long day of walking and seeing the sights. We were in a beautiful part of the country, in the best season, it seemed, and for once we were both, well, relaxing. I knew a holiday would be just the right thing.
The next morning, we woke, and I lazily imagined how sweet it would be for her to suck me as I woke up, then we could have breakfast, and go and see that church or whatever. She had other ideas. She was already up and dressed, looking a little stressed, but fine, we had an itinerary to follow. Day two turned out to have a few more challenges to it than our first. We got lost, twice (I told you she had terrible visuo-spatial skills) and were late to our restaurant reservation, so they gave our table away. We ate some overpriced pancake things that weren't very good, no matter how hard we both tried to pretend they were, and we were pooped by the time 4 o'clock rolled by and we landed in our hotel room again.
She laughed a little at some Dutch game show and then we settled on the bed for a moment. Now was the time, obviously. I rolled over to her side of the bed and started to kiss her knee, moving just a little further up.
"Well, this is a very flimsy little thing you're wearing right here, isn't it...?" I said, starting off again, trying out this new sex vocabulary that seemed to centre around how utterly inappropriate all her clothing was.
"Why, what's wrong with it?" she said.
I sat back again. Women, right?
I watched the show with her and then after a while extended a hand over to her again, stroking her forearm a little without making any eye contact. It was as though I could feel the atoms in her arm recoiling from me.
There it was, all at once, back on us again: the heavy expectation. We were a pair of pandas in captivity, and we were back on a schedule, having to do it, and do it now, right now, or else. I felt the weight of this crushing in all around us; I felt it pulling her away from me. Nothing changed really, in the moments that followed, but everything was different somehow. We were rushing back, at a hundred miles an hour, to our same old lives again, our same old stale house and the same old stale life had followed us after all.
I pulled back my hand.
We didn't have sex that day, or the day after it for that matter. With each day that went by, the mood grew more sour, although we both ostensibly acted very interested in all the touristy things happening all around us. The truth was, we had come there to fuck, but we were doing everything but.
She closed up again, and I was just about ready to admit that we had only discovered a small pocket, a little anomalous bubble of fun in the long expanse of boring, married life. And now that it was over, there was nothing to do but spend more money in this dump and then go home and catch up on the washing before work started again on Monday. It was hard, and she was miserable about it, too.
And even when we did manage to get it on, whatever magic needed to happen just wasn't happening for us. My little swimmers were wiggling up to her egg and saying how do you do and she wasn't having any of it. My sperm were dying, bored with life, wondering what the point of any of it was, especially something as outrageous as a baby. Or, her egg was too old, too tired, too rushed at work to bother with little swimmers anyway. I don't know.
Everything was wrong. The planets never quite aligned. We never found that sweet spot. Our holiday was more depressing than we had anticipated, but I tell you, nothing makes you quite so depressed as knowing that you and your chosen mate are failing hard at your single biological imperative. On our last day, she wore some ratty jeans and told me we might as well cancel all our plans that day and just chill at the hotel pool. I couldn't be arsed to argue with her, so we did.
We sat in the room, the Dutch game shows not seeming quite so hilarious anymore, and waited for the last bits of the holiday to get finished already. As a last ditch attempt, I sidled up to her as she was making tea and tried to rub her bum, hoping the suggestion would be enough, but she shrugged me off and pretended it hadn't happened. Ouch. I gave up. I suppose I was doomed to get to work on buying a Chinese baby for her on the black market when we got home.
I mumbled something to her and declared I would have a nap.


Chapter Nine


"It's gross to eat in the room all the time," she said, "let's just go downstairs to the restaurant at least."
"Fine."
We freshened up and headed downstairs for dinner, the heavy red carpets of the lobby seeming at that moment to be everything wrong with the world. We ate in silence, and I tried to convert the Euros in my head as she picked at a dessert, eventually complaining how she hoped it wouldn't make her fat.
Then, god bless him, someone stepped in and ended our misery.
He was a good-looking guy, around our age, sitting alone at a table at the far end of the restaurant. He was seated facing our table, and it became clear to us quite quickly that he was staring at Tanya. A lot. Her eyes flickered to meet his and he smiled.
Interesting.
We sat there a little longer, being fabulously obvious. He wouldn't look away, and every time Tanya noticed this she blushed and looked elsewhere ...before looking back at him again.
I was a little miffed. At first.
"Having a nice time flirting, I see?" I hadn't actually decided if I was insulted or not. Tanya was a beautiful woman, anyone could see that. She had always turned heads. Ordinarily, we skirted around that fact with all the tact married couples are supposed to have, but this time, something in me was ...curious.
She looked at me, trying to decode my expression. Surprisingly, I felt a faint flicker of pleasure at the idea. I had called her a slut so often these last few weeks. Well, here she was, opening up again. To someone else. Like a slut. What I did next ...well, let's just say it took me by surprise as much as it did her.
I turned to look at the guy again, and then gestured for him to come over to our table. A quick flash of panic appeared on his face but he stood up and walked over. I swear I could feel the heat of my wife's body increasing as he approached the table.
"Hey man. Want to join us?" I said, indicating the empty seat next to her. God, I was such an alpha male in that moment, I was turning myself on. It was more like an order, more like a challenge than a friendly invitation.
I had no idea what I was doing.
Instantly, Tanya extended her hand and burst off into prattle about this and that, her small talk covering up the awkwardness of the moment. Once or twice, she shot a glance in my direction, as if to ask me ...something. Permission? For what?
The guy seemed cool enough, and was answering her questions, smiling and asking his own.
I sat quietly.
He had two tanned arms resting on the table, and to my surprise, Tanya lightly brushed her fingers against them, just once, just for a split second. He noticed this. I noticed this. We all noticed each other noticing. For the first time, he looked at me, with a questioning look echoing the one she had shown me moments before.
I smiled and said nothing.
We ordered a round of drinks together and chatted some more, but with each little touch of Tanya's fingertips, here, there, she was slowly ramping up some strange new tension at the table. I noticed, very faintly, that her fingers were shaking, but then I remembered her devilish face that day on the side of the road, her hungry insistence, her utter disregard for whoever drove by that day... no, she knew exactly what she was doing here, I was sure of it.
The guy, seemingly content that I had given some sort of go-ahead, was focusing his attention more and more on her, his eyes flickering lower down over her body every time she turned away or looked at me.
Then, she did something: when a plastic coaster fell noiselessly to the floor, she instantly bent down to pick it up, lingering at the bottom so the billowy top of her blouse gaped open and flashed him an ample glance of the tops of her breasts.
She came up again, to a mood that had changed even more. She cleared her throat.
"So, like I was saying, the views are beautiful here, really. We're very cramped at home so it's lovely to see so far to the horizon. The view in our room is actually the best I think," she said.
"What, better than this view?" he replied, referring to the beautiful sculpted gardens all around us.
"Oh yes. Much better. You get to see so much more..."
"Really? Probably not."
"No really. Wanna come see?
And that was that. The form of the rest of our evening was beginning to snap into shape. She had been snaking along, looking for some sort of hook in the chit chat, some gap to wedge in some insinuation, some suggestion. And this was it.
Now, I've told you that I'm not too good with picking up on subtle social cues, but it did strike me that all this hinting and flirting was probably unnecessary, given how quickly and eagerly he responded.
"Yeah, sure, I'll come up," and he flashed another pointed glance at me.
"Yes, come up, she's exaggerating the view, I think, but let's go up. We have whiskey in the mini bar, too, I'll pour you another."
And with this flimsy premise of looking at views and drinking whiskey, we all got up and headed over to our room. Tanya, thank heavens, filled all the intervening moments with more small talk (I am constantly reminded of why I married this gorgeous woman) and we found ourselves in the room, on this last night of our trip, when suddenly something was going to happen and I didn't quite know what to think about it yet.
As she flung off her shoes, Tanya threw me an intense, pleading look, one that even I could tell was imbued with a million hidden messages.
She wanted me to do something.
I kicked off my shoes and it dawned on me: I would have to be the one to instigate whatever happened here. Were we actually just meeting up for an innocent drink with a stranger in our hotel room? No, of course not, we were already well committed, surely. Right? Nobody could say that any of this was innocent. The guy was handsome, too, and you certainly don't go around looking that handsome without fully intending to... to what?
I tried to decode the look she was giving me. She had been so grim about everything almost from the first day of this trip, and here she was, all naughty looks and stolen glances. I had played around with the idea, once or twice, of her with another man, but it never really held my interest. Did she want to fuck him? Was I OK with that? I would have done anything to please her, but something sore and unhappy stirred in me at the thought of sharing her. She was mine, wasn't she? And I hers?
She plunked down on the bed and I went to make us a trio of drinks; whiskey in tiny etched hotel glasses, one for each of us. Three. An unstable number, that.
He had seated himself on the edge of a chair next to the bed, leaving the bed as the only remaining place for me to sit. A few sips of whiskey, and the whole thing seemed fun, amusing even.
They continued to chat, and I watched by idly, interjecting here and there or nodding.
She had on one of her usual sundresses, this one a little more chaste than our famous roadside number; it had a few fussy bits around the neckline and a slightly longer hem, a hem I had noticed shifting higher and higher up her thighs.
My mind was all over the place, and their words kind of washed over me - I was listening to the change in pitch of their voices, to the way they seemed to be moving closer to each other.
She playfully smacked my knee and then leaned in for a playful snuggle, which unexpectedly turned into a kiss. A lingering kiss. We kissed right up to the point of decency and then went past it. She seemed to wait there, half opened lips touching mine, deciding what she would do. She leaned in further and give me one long, slow, almost obscenely intimate kiss, one that sent her little tongue deep into my mouth, her lips hard against mine. She drew back, playful, a drunk little look in her eyes.
"I hope you don't mind a little public affection," she said to him, never breaking eye contact with me.
He laughed, taking a swig of his drink. "No problem. We're not really in public anymore, so..." his voice trailed off, and their eyes met.
This was kind of hot. She looked beautiful. I loved this, showing her off like this.
He put his glass down on the side table and leaned in a little, placing a tender hand on her bare thigh. We all three looked down at this hand. That sore, unhappy place in me twinged a little, and I interrupted, pulling her head towards mine.
"Kiss me again," I ordered her, and we were both surprised by how much force was in those few words.
She obeyed, and, with his hand still on her leg, she leaned in for another deep, slow kiss. This time, I grabbed her firmly, with a grasp that seemed to say not him, me. I angled her head to the side and kissed her roughly; her body went limp in my hands. Out the corner of my eyes I saw his hand, still there, stroking her skin faintly. My cock twitched in my pants. I kissed her harder. She tore her lips away from mine and looked over to him, to see whether he was OK with any of this or, she probably hoped, actually thrilled with it.
He had the same glassy, drunk look to his eyes as she did, and he only stared straight ahead at us, at her lips, his hand still stroking her thighs. She looked into his eyes, then down at the rest of his body, then back into his eyes.
Some secret bit of communication happened in a flash between them, something quick and dirty, and all at once she snapped her attention back to me, smiling and parting her lips a little to invite yet another luscious kiss.
His hand was still glued to her; impatiently, I grabbed her around her waist and threw her more fully on the bed, away from his hand, her hair fanning out all around the pillows. This gesture seemed to shock both of them. He moved back in his seat, and picked up his glass again, somehow sensing that I wasn't ready to share her. Not yet, anyway.
Good.
This woman belonged to me. If anyone was going to fuck her, I was the one.
She writhed around on the bed a little, alternating delicious looks with me, then him, then me again. She was doing that hot little thing she did with her hips when she was horny. Oh, she was far drunker than I had originally thought.
"Don't mind me," he said, chuckling. He was slouching in his seat now, legs spread wide, with one casual hand balancing his drink on his knee, and the other held under his chin, as if he was carefully considering some new argument he had never heard before.
I placed my own crude hand on her thighs, as if to reclaim her, spreading my full fingers out over her skin and squeezing hard. With an almost deliberate vulgarity, I shoved my hand further up under the dress, then threw open the fabric, revealing a pair of pale pink panties. She squealed and giggled, making the most ineffectual attempt to pull it down again.
"Take this thing off," I said to her, not quite knowing that I meant to say that until the words had already left my lips and were hanging there, between her and me and our new friend.
Her face was pink. She had that same dangerous, loosely reckless look on her face, one that I was gradually growing accustomed to. She wanted to break the rules? Little slut. Fine, I would call her bluff. She wanted to get fucked here, right now, in front of this stranger? Fine, I would show her.
She wriggled out of her dress and I grabbed it and flung it aside. Her bra went, too, and eventually the little panties as well, till she was completely naked in the bed, me towering over her and him watching on, fully clothed and taking slow, disinterested sips of whiskey now and then.
This was fantastic.
'Show him your pussy," I said, and grabbed each of her legs, forcing them apart. She made a show of resisting me, but I spread her legs open, and she turned her head to the side, bashful, hiding her face in her loose hair. Slowly, she lowered two hands down over her torso and then down to her inner thighs, slowly, slowly pulling her thighs up, giving our guest the most unimaginably filthy view.
He sat, unmoving, eyebrows knitted and mouth pulled tight. My cock twitched again. I wanted her. By the looks of him, he wanted her too.
I reached over to her again, but she sprung up, standing on the bed now above both of us, playfully pulling her tongue out at me. She stood tall above us both now, completely naked, her two little nipples tight and that particular shade of dark pink they turned whenever she was really turned on.
Man, she was wasted. Looking down at us both, a slow, naughty smile slid over face and she giggled, then raised both her slender arms up and tossed back her head. Arching her back and snaking her arms up overhead, she began to dance a little, rhythmic and slinky-like, something part prima ballerina, part strip tease.
We watched her, neither of us breathing or breaking our focus on her lean body. She dropped her hands down and slid them over her body, stroking herself from top to bottom, then back up again, but not before teasing a little between her legs. Astonishingly, she dragged a single middle finger up over her bare belly, leaving a slick wet trail. I could not believe how wet she was. The arms went up overhead again and she writhed side to side, throwing her hips this way and that way, the tight muscles of her belly moving underneath her velvety skin.
She opened her eyes and immediately grinned at him; I followed her gaze and found him on his chair, unzipped, dick in hand. The whiskey still propped on his knee. He had one of those weird tapered cocks, one that bulged fat in the middle but narrowed down at the end. He was stroking it absentmindedly. She seemed absolutely thrilled by this. She turned her radiant face towards mine.
"Where's yours?" she said.
Dear lord, I never took my clothes off so fast as I did then. Before I knew what we were doing, she had impaled herself onto my rock hard dick, sitting in my lap like a little goddess, riding me up and down like a complete animal. I sat cross-legged, cradling her excited form in my arms, her small breasts pressing hard against my chest. I had my back to him, leaving her to face him full on, looking him square in the face as I hammered away at her hungry little cunt.
Her entire body was different somehow, exquisitely switched on; I had to admit, I had gone along with it for her, but I was becoming curious about him. No sooner had I thought this, did I hear him rouse behind me, and next he had his face to hers, kissing her greedily as we fucked.
It was so hot to see her this way, with a stranger's tongue in her mouth, that I instantly felt my entire body pulse, hard, and I couldn't stop myself from coming all at once inside her. I cried out as I pumped each spurt into her, and this temporarily pulled her surprised lips from his.
She looked down at my spent body, the cum now oozing out of her little hole and onto her thighs and mine. Then a second flutter of surprise washed over her face as she looked at him again, behind me and out of my sight. In an instant, I heard him groan and release a gush of hot cum all over her face, right over my shoulder. She was so surprised she laughed out loud and seemed genuinely happy to now be coated in not one but two loads of cum.
She threw herself back onto the bed, still laughing and still very, very drunk, completely doused in white. He was giggling too, and nervously reached for his glass, throwing back the last of his whiskey.
"Hey man, you look like you need another one," he said, then put his trousers back on and headed to the mini bar again.
I looked at her, her face dribbling with strings of cum that she was now hurriedly trying to wipe off with her crumpled up dress.
With a deep, primal satisfaction, I gazed at her fucked pussy, and saw my own cum dribbling out of her, too, so much of it that there was no more room left inside her. I had thrust hard into her, putting it in as deep as possible, and I had come so much it was now flowing freely out of her again, right here in this room, on our holiday, with this, this guy watching.
He stayed the night.
My wife performed for him, little slut that she was, and I took full advantage of her altered state to send two more loads of cum into her before the evening was over. He slept in the bed, I think, but the whiskey was flowing, too, and blurred away the edges of all the events that came later...
In the morning, we overslept and missed out flight. Tanya laughed her head off at this.


Chapter Ten


Life went on, you know, as it does.
We caught another flight, came home, tried to make sense of what had happened, both completely ignoring all the tourist snaps we'd taken and throwing the picture postcards in the trash. For all we cared, we could have been in Timbuktu.
I'm a problem solver, by nature, and with satisfaction I was beginning to piece together that precise set of circumstances that would result in my wife turning into that raging little sex monster we now both knew she could be. I Googled it (and so what if I did?) and tried to get into her head in every way I could. She didn't understand it, herself. She couldn't tell me what left her cold and what seemed to flip that switch in her that turned her into the kind of woman that would gleefully take a load on the face from a stranger.
But I had seen it, and I wanted more of it, so I devoted myself to recreating the magic again somehow.
The first thing, though, was that she couldn't know. It had to be spontaneous. Or, should I say, it had to appear spontaneous. Any hint that anything was planned would frightened off her newly fledged little kink and we'd be doing obligatory ovulation knobbing again and I couldn't bear the thought.
No, she had to be surprised, on the spur of the moment, by complete or almost complete strangers, who would then be righteously turned on by how much of an unbridled tart she was being. I won't say what effect this was having on me ...but let's say I managed to find hours each day to devote to furtive research on the topic.
About a week after we returned back from our holiday, both of us still riding this strange new wave that had appeared in the pool of our everyday lives ...I had a plan. It grew slowly, almost imperceptibly, but after a few days it was there, fully formed, my own delicious secret.


Chapter Eleven


"Turn around, go on, let me see the back of it," I said.
She curled up her eyebrows at me, then looked at herself in the mirror for the hundredth time, then twirled around in front of me, the stretchy fabric hugging her little behind.
"Nah, I think yellow one is better, wear that one instead," I said, staring at her behind.
She looked at me hard, trying to figure out my new interest in her clothing choices, something I typically didn't give two shits about.
"Really? The yellow one? Don't you think it's a little too ...slutty?"
I smiled internally.
"No, it's great. It shows of your lovely bum, wear it."
She went back to the cupboard and stripped off, wriggled the yellow one on.
It was a great dress on her. It had blurry, abstract leaves all up the front of it, in just the right color to make her delicate hazel eyes seem like they were cut from amber.
"That's better! Little minx," I said.
"Will you tell me where we're going already?" she said, beginning to twirl her hair up in the mirror.
'No. I won't. And leave your hair down."
"Bossy this evening, aren't we?" she replied, letting her hair fall down again, still not sure what to make of this whole thing.
"Shush and just get ready. We should leave in the next ten minutes, and you'll find out soon enough."
A dubious look came over her face, but there was something else underneath it, something like the start of her enjoying something, shall we say, a little spontaneous. We caught a taxi and her protests and begging for more information took a playful turn. She tugged at my arm and whined and twiddled with her earrings.
"Shh... it's a bloody well surprise, isn't it?" I said.
She beamed at me and we drove on.
A few years ago, doing something like this would have been ...inconceivable. But within the last few months, I had been so regularly surprised by just how naughty this woman truly was. She was so different these days, a little wild, a little unpredictable. She was less of a list maker now, less concerned with being on time. And in bed, she had become sex mad, a sexual daredevil, performing her heart out at the mere thought of someone watching her.
We arrived at a non-descript looking brick building in a non-descript location. There were cars in the parking lot, the outline of two bouncer-looking types at an arched entrance that gave no indication that there was anything going on beyond it. No music, no queue outside. I could see a mild look of disappointment grow over her face, but she tried to conceal it, saying, "Ooh ...where are we now, this looks interesting!"
We went inside; even though they were dark glasses, I could somehow feel the bouncer types' eyes scan over her scantily clad body as she walked through three or four folds of heavy velvet and into a foyer. It was only once we were inside that the possibility that I had fucked up dawned on me. There seemed to be an air of anti climax all of a sudden, as though she had been actively expecting some sort of big reveal. For all appearances, we seemed to be in an ordinary (and almost empty!) nightclub. I told myself not to sweat it, that her disappointment would make it all the sweeter when it finally dawned on her where we really were. I decided to hold my tongue and let things evolve as they would.
"Want a drink?" I said casually, and we walked over to a purple back-lit bar. I glanced over at her staring around listlessly, playing with a loose mint leaf she had found on the counter. Oh god, what if this completely blows up in my big stupid face? What if this is like, the first step of my divorce? Here she had begged me for a baby like a nice respectable girl and I had bought her to a sex club?
I desperately tried to think of something to say, but before I could, she began chatting absentmindedly with the bartender.
"Bit quiet for a Saturday night, isn't it?"
"Oh, you just wait, it's a costume evening tonight. Give it an hour and you won't say it's quiet..."
"Costumes?" she said, her face lighting up a little.
"Oh yeah, everyone goes all out. First time here is it?"
She nodded.
"First time? Ah, you're gonna love it," he said, giving her a lascivious wink and pushing two beers towards me.
I quickly steered her away before he said any more.
"Well, that guy was a bit creepy, wasn't he?" she said, and we settled down at some tables in a small enclave some way off from the main dance floor. The room seemed big on purple - softly glowing purple orbs hung above us, and there were faint flecks of purple and pink glitter in the concrete dance floor. Each enclave was partly sectioned off with some heavy drapes that could be shut to create little private purple bubbles... I watched her closely, to see if she noticed this, or the little cushions that had been scattered in some of the corners.
"That's cute! You can sit on the floor over there!" she said, and I relished how clueless she was. There was another room in this club. A room for her. But I would wait before I showed her that.
People started to drift into the club pretty quickly after that. The music was beat-heavy, loud yet unobtrusive. We hadn't been there an hour when a big group of people stumbled in, a group of mostly women in outrageous outfits - they formed a mass of mostly bare limbs, straps and strips of lace and PVC as far as the eye could see, and a woman with a pair of tits so unruly they seemed constantly in danger of shaking off the flimsy pair of tassels she had stuck on them. Tanya stared with wide eyes, then raised her eyebrows at me.
It was imperceptible at first, but the arrival of this group seemed to click the whole club into its next gear, and somehow more people appeared, the music deepened, the lights dimmed and Tanya turned to me, half finished drink in her hand, "Oh my god did you see that! That girl's totally taken her knickers off!" I threw back the rest of my drink and tried hard to suppress a giggle. A slow, shocked expression crawled over her face, then erupted into a smile.
"Oh my god. Alan. Where are we? Is this like...? Like a ...?" she said.
I took another theatrical sip of my drink and nodded. Her mouth hung open for a few moments.
"Are they going to... right here...?"
I shrugged. I didn't know honestly. But I enjoyed how excited she suddenly seemed.
"Finish your drink and then I'll show you, they have other rooms too. This is just the dance floor."
We got up and she flashed new eyes over the crowds around us, suddenly very interested in what everyone was wearing, and whether anybody had claimed the cushioned enclaves yet. I gently took her by the hand and we wandered till we found a new section, one that made her sparkly eyes light up even further. My heart ached to see her this happy. And the rest of me had started to ache, too.
We stopped and took in the sight of it: in the centre of the room was a large, shallow pool trimmed with spidery plants, scattered Bohemian looking cushions, little glass benches. But what caught her eyes almost immediately was the room's real focus: suspended above the pool with heavy looking chains was an enormous bed on a floating platform. It was empty but richly upholstered with white pillows and cushions, almost as though it was waiting. I watched her face, the cogs turning, and hoped to hell she wasn't about to chew me out for assuming she'd go for any of this.
Instead she turned to me after a moment and planted a fat, urgent kiss onto my lips, grasping my head in her hands. I laughed in relief. And then there it was - that naughty glint was in her eyes again, that glint I had first seen on the side of the road, and again as she danced naked on a bed for some stranger in a hotel room. I smiled, pretty chuffed with myself indeed.
I went to get us more drinks, and she stood there, looking a little vulnerable in her yellow dress.
"When you're finished this drink, we'll do it, OK?"
She said nothing to this. She only stared at me long and hard, then proceeded to throw back half of her drink in one gulp, then wipe her wet lips with the back of her hand. I laughed. Why had we never done this before?
The music picked up, people peeled off in semi-secret groups of twos and threes to kiss and grope in corners. She was in her element. Almost ready, but I didn't push it. The bed towered above us all, giving everyone a full view of its as yet unoccupied sheets. The last of the drink disappeared into her lovely throat and she looked at it and then me with a boozy expression.
"Ok, let's go."


Chapter Twelve


I took her hand and we ascended the narrow staircase that led to the bed; I swear I could detect her heartbeat fluttering in her fingertips.
She had lowered her eyes and was walking slowly, deliberately on each step in her dainty heels, but the rest of her body was proud, fully on display. Her shoulders were back and her pert little behind waggled deliberately form side to side as we reached the top, the chattering in the room dying down a little as everyone turned to look.
The atmosphere was electrifying. Something like a trance fell over her, and her eyes seemed to dim down under heavy eye lids and an expression of deep concentration - the face you make when tasting something faint but delicious. She took two leggy steps towards the bed, planted her palms down onto it and made a show of tracing two big circles there, hips thrust out.
She was hot, and knew it. The people below knew it, too.
She spun around to face me and giggled, then all at once she was doing that same snaky dance with her hands held loosely above her head. She was teetering high on her heels, balanced up here for everyone to see her, from every angle. With a swift movement, she reached down and pulled the hem of her dress, turning it inside out over her head and letting it carelessly float down into the pool below. It was so brazen, so unlike her, I couldn't help but laugh. Something stirred below us, and I became aware out the corner of my eye that a small, curious crowd had gathered around the pool below.
She twisted and turned a little now in her lingerie, a tipsy diva enjoying nothing but the music and the feel of the cool air on her hips, her breasts. I knew better though. I knew that inside she was steadily working herself into a frenzy, ready to explode at the first touch, like the ravenous little slut she was.
I flopped down on the bed and watched her, happily realizing that every eye was firmly glued on my wife and not me.
The bra and panties came off, to an indistinct cheer from below, which broke her reverie for a while and caused her to smile and hide her face, embarrassed. Even from the bed, I could tell her turned on how she was. She pounced onto the cushions next to me and drank up a deep, luscious kiss. Her hands were greedy, too, and rushed all over my body to unzip and unbutton me, and my dick sprang up to meet her, pleased that I had brought her here, and that now I would take her the rest of the way, too.
I had had enough of her toying and showing off anyway, so I lunged to grab her and fling her down flat on the bed, wild hair tossing out beside her.
For the next few minutes, my lips and tongue worked over her beautiful body as she lay back like I was worshipping her: I rolled my lips over her taut belly, nibbled and kissed the fullness around her breasts, and gave only the most fleeting licks to her slightly parted legs.
Now, my preferred style is just to pin her down and fuck her till she gets that zombie-look on her face and stops convulsing, but here, oh, she would want a little more teasing. I wanted her to be the star of the show. She parted her legs and lifted hungry hips to my tongue, but I pulled away. I knelt and gestured for her to suck me, and I imagined, not without a little vanity, that at least half of the people below envied me at that moment.
I gripped her head and forced her throat down onto me, loving the subduing effect this had on her. I pushed my full length into her mouth, admiring the perfect kiss her lips made at the hilt.
With each plunge, I grew harder, but she enveloped me completely with her skillful mouth, little tongue working inside. I brushed a lock of hair from her face, glowing and tightened in concentration, and was filled with nothing but bliss and love for her. I pulled back, reached forward and plucked her up, then lay her on the bed, her supple body waiting, buzzing with anticipation.
Here, she gave me a look that froze me in my tracks. It was a simple look. It had something of the past in it, some gentle yearning glance that spoke of so many years, so much water under so many bridges. It was like a momentary flicker of nostalgia, and it seemed to draw a brief curtain round us, creating a split second bubble of privacy in this vast, open club, this bedroom with no walls. My breathing stopped, my heart stopped, and every last atom of my attention went to her, and the fragile look on her beautiful face.
Look, I'm not a romantic, but something changed in me then. They say that women truly become mothers the moment they decide that they want children, or the very second they fall pregnant. Fathers, on the other hand, only become fathers once the baby is born and they're in front of them. Me? I became a father the moment I stared down at my beautiful wife, purple light glowing all round her, her sweet, open face to mine, and I knew I wanted nothing more than to love her and fill her up with enough cum to make a million babies.
Until then, baby-making had seemed like something she was doing, something that only required me to stand by and do my bit when the time came. But now ...something in her golden eyes made me want to really give it to her. I had been giving Tanya things my whole life, and now, here, I wanted to give her every last bit of me. My life. My heart. My soul. My body. My cock.
The curtain lifted again and without wasting any time, I dove in, parted her legs and rammed into her with one slick, brutal thrust. She cried out. I sunk deep into the wet folds of her, pressing away her body's last fluttering resistance, stroking deep into her body; each stroke meeting a moan from her. She clutched desperately at my back to stabilize herself against what I was subjecting her to. Instead of easing up, I stabbed harder, each thrust lifting her hips off the bed. I felt wild. Her head hung limply off the edge of the bed, her long hair making a light brown fountain onto the platform below, shaking with each pump.
I felt bigger than I ever had in my life, enlarged somehow by my new purpose to immerse completely in her, to plunge my greedy cock right into the heart of her and fill with her with hot, sticky cum. She had a look of blissed out shock on her face, her little eyebrows quivering as my body dominated hers. And then, something strange happened: the lights in the club visibly dimmed, and this time the curtain wasn't in my imagination. A soft spotlight hovering above us began to glow purple, while the lights in the rest of the club died down and darkened.
We were being put on display. If people hadn't been watching us before, they certainly were now.
It was as though this sent tangible ripples through her body, and she arched her back, showing off her breasts and white throat. She loved it, being fucked in full view of everyone here, a literal spotlight on her body. I leaned in close, so close I could smell the moisture on her skin, and growled something in her ear, something I didn't even comprehend, but could have only one meaning: I was going to come.
With all her might she wrapped her body tightly around mine, arms and legs coiled around me and her devouring pussy pressed up close to me as possible. I found a little nook of warmth nestled beside her head, and pressed my lips here, breathing in her smell. With a desperate, shuddering cry, she orgasmed hard around my cock and as she did, her voice distorted.
"Alan! Oh god. Put a baby in me..."
At any other time these words would have been ridiculous. Over the top. They would have ripped me right out of the moment. But now ...there was nothing in the world I wanted to do more than put a baby in her, my baby, here in front of all these people.
All at once, a great pulsing wave tore through me and I burst inside her; her twitching body clung to mine, drawing me in as deep as I could go. It was my essence, the seed for something more to grow, everything I had.
I emptied out into her and she took it all, smiling.
I stared down at her amused face, something unspeakable forming in her eyes, and I knew. We both knew: it had happened.
We had conceived.


Chapter Thirteen


Like I said, I'm not a sappy guy. I think auras and ESP are bullshit, and I judge the hell out of people who believe in astrology.
I didn't really think it was possible to "feel" that moment when conception actually happened. Somehow, in the next few days, Tanya and I enjoyed this new, weird secret we had. She had felt the same thing, too. The evening was a blur after that. We both remembered a playful cheer from some people down below, and drinks on the house for the good show we had given (although we hardly needed them); I remembered my wife beaming from ear to ear. I remembered the purple light, the yellow dress.
I was proud of her. I wanted to show her off to the whole world.
They had seen everything - her lithe, naked body drenched in sweat and cum, how her legs had been shaking when she stepped down from the platform, as though descending from heaven to look people in the eye again and find her clothes. They had seen her flustered and tying up her bedraggled hair, had seen her laughing as a young couple helped her fish her dress from the pool.
But even they hadn't seen our secret, the way our bodies had agreed at just that moment to fuse, to make the living, flesh-and-blood proof of our love. Even at this outrageously exhibitionistic moment, there was still some deep, secret part inside her ...a part that I and only I had access to.
It was cheesy, I know, but we loved it.
It was too soon to take a pregnancy test, but we both went on with life, excited, both tentative that what we had hoped - and felt - to be true actually might be.
It had never seemed hot to me before, any of this. But she seemed different to me in those days afterwards. She was overflowing, brim full of some new mischief and some improbable bit of magic: a new life was growing inside her.
A life I had put there.
It was two weeks later when we snuck into a café bathroom and she peed on a stick, and we both waited for those two lines that would legitimize everything. Two little lines... one for each of us.
They appeared.
She shoved the test back into the plastic Boots bag I brought for her and we sat in the café and looked at each other for a long time.
"Well now, you've only gone and knocked me up," she said, teasing.
"Who me?" I said, teasing back.
We kissed.
"I can't believe it, Alan. We did it. Maybe I should ring Doctor Melville and tell him how..."
"Yes, I'm sure he'd be very interested in hearing what a little slut you are."
"Who, me?" she said, laughing.
I kissed her again.
"You're sexy," I said.
"You're silly."
"No, really. Pregnancy becomes you."
"Oh...?"
"Yeah. I wonder if I'm imagining it or if you actually look different now."
"You big idiot, it can't be."
"No, I think you do look different. Sexier."
"Oh?"Her eyes sparkled. "You wanna...?"
God she was so naughty.
"What, here?"
"Mmm."
"Here here?"
"Mmm."
I finished my coffee and got up, then moved over to the bathrooms again, casual as can be. She followed a minute later, and we fucked in that tiny stall, while I held a hand over her screaming mouth.


Chapter Fourteen


We went back to that club many times in the next few months. And others. Tanya was seemingly in her final form, fully transformed, unfolding like some naughty flower that only blooms under the gaze of others.
We kept going, and eventually her soft belly domed outwards with the first signs of a pregnancy. The little secret we had gradually shared with the world around us became more and more obvious.
Pregnancy suited her well. She became even more golden, even naughtier, her sexual persona completely taking over. At home she was my sweet little wife in sweet little sundresses, but when we went out, she was a sexual superstar, someone who fed on the admiring gaze of others, seeming to turn on every male within a one-mile radius.
And sweet lord, if she wasn't already pregnant I sure as hell would have done the job a thousand times over again. Just knowing how her body responded, how I had fertilized her, planted seed deep in her belly ...it brought out something primal me. I wanted to drench her in cum; I relished the sight of her exhausted, dribbling body. We had found her sexual buttons, and finding all her new ones just happened to be my sexual button.
We were back in Doctor Melville's office, and I was noticing with some consternation that Ovaria, queen of the vaginas was nowhere to be found. I had to lighten the mood some other way. I nodded towards a gestational poster, you know the kind, one with a cross section of some woman and a curled up baby rolled inside her like a pork chop.
"Oh my god, Tanya, so help me, you'd better not be growing us a baby that looks like that."
She stroked her belly like an evil villain. "Hehe, just you watch, this little guy's going to be on my side, and we'll kick your butt together."
The doctor walked in and we had our consultation, Tanya smiling throughout as thought she had personally proven him wrong and that she never needed a holiday after all, just a damn good seeing to. Personally, I kind of agreed.
We did the sonars and ticked all the boxes. Everything was perfect.
"Finding more time to relax these days?" he asked.
Tanya flashed a smile at me and replied that yes, she was, although I knew that these days her idea of relaxing would exhaust a less adventurous woman.
"So you'll want to make some arrangements with the birth itself, like we spoke about. No rush, but bring your birth plan in next appointment and I'll have you and the nurse go over it in detail."
Tanya had ramped up her list-making ways in the last few weeks, and was deeply engrossed in plans for the nursery, buying clothing and knick knacks ...she packed a little D-day hospital bag that seemed to contain different things every time I checked in.
If there's anything she loved more than getting nailed in front of a crowd of strangers, it was making lists, and make them she did.
This was just another adventure, and one we were going on together.
"I tell this to all my patients, but think very carefully about who you want to be in the room with you," he continued.
"The last thing you want is to have people there who you're not comfortable with. It can feel very exposing, of course."
"Exposing? Sounds horrible," she said.
We laughed about that, all the way on the drive home. But not before a quick detour, of course.


- THE END -

* * *

Unholy - A Bad Boy Romance

Chapter One

My name is Melanie, and I'm a pretty good girl, if I do say so myself.
I have just two secrets.
Judging from what a crazy mess the world is, and how awful most people are, I would rate I'm not doing too badly if I've only racked up two so far. Just two.
The first one is my hidden wedding Pinterest board where I collect millions of pictures of dream dresses, beautiful cakes, fun things to do with shells, wedding manicures and sexy yet classy bridal lingerie that has the name of your dream guy embroidered in tiny white stitches on a silky suspender belt...
The other is that I seem to be addicted to watching hardcore porn.
I always thought that the best colors for a wedding are obviously pastels, even though I know they're a little predictable, right? Still, you can always go with a retro theme. There's a whole section of my "Dresses" board that shows, like the stripes in a rock, the periods of my life where I was intensely interested in 50s wedding frocks with poofy skirts and the cutest little shoes.
But then I decided I wanted a bright Frida Kahlo style Mexican theme with paper cut outs and piñatas that rained down wedding favors when the guests hit them with sticks that had ribbons plaited on them. But I soon decided that would probably end up cheap-looking and that what I really wanted was something all mute and elegant - lace, you know, and pearls, and little desserts that look like roses with tiny cakes tucked inside.
My tastes in porn ...well, that stayed pretty much constant. I always chose the same, nasty, horrible, no good stuff to look at, sadly.
Now, I like fitted wedding dresses the most, honestly, and find they flatter my butt nicely, even if I do say so myself. Like I said, I'm a pretty good girl, but lord help me I do think I have a nice butt, and it's not too vain if I say so. Good girls wait for the wedding night, and listen to their mammas, and do well in school so they can be dental technicians and live the dream. And that's what I did. A Pinterest board may have been jumping the gun a little, sure, but so what if I fantasized once in a while about what my groom would wear even before he technically existed? Only a bad girl would let such a small detail get in the way of her planning a decent wedding.
The porn though. Ugh. What could I say? God knows I tried my best to get over this filthy habit. I read "The Beauty of the Chaste Woman" by Reverend Peters. I took cold showers (does that only work for boys though?) and I wore my own makeshift pledge ring on my middle finger, where it was too small and so would hurt the most. I put special parental controls on my browser. Then I took them off again.
Nothing worked, which just goes to show you that even good girls struggle sometimes. Now, I know what you're thinking. You're thinking I'm some poor repressed Christian soul. You're thinking I'm a big old prude and that I'm like one of those girls on the TV who believes the idiot in her youth group when he tells her you can't get pregnant on Easter or something.
Well, I'm not. I'm no fool. I may be on the inexperienced side but I know a thing or two about you-know-what. My family's a bit uptight about these things, sure, but besides my Aunt Carol, we all just like to do things properly. The right way. What's so wrong about that?
I'm young, I know (nineteen years old and ten months!) but it seems to me that living a good life is a bit like planning a wedding: you have to pay attention to the details, you have to plan ahead, or else you'll have a big old flop on your hands, won't you? Besides the nasty issue with the porn (don't judge me, I'm working on it and no, I certainly won't tell you what kind of porn it is) I was going to have that good life for myself. Right down to the last table arrangement and swan shaped bottle of bubbles. I thought nothing could possibly stand in my way.
Boy, how wrong I was.


Chapter Two


"For Christ's sake, Jenny, it's not lube, it's personal moisturizer" said my Aunt Carol, who had not only taken to using the lord's name in vain, but had also joined a pyramid scheme, from what I could tell.
"Personal moisturizer? Well, for such an open minded company, they sure have some funny ideas about calling a thing what it really is," said my mom, turning a green bottle over in her hands a few times before plonking it on the table like it was poison. If my mom had been in charge of what to call the stuff, she'd probably have gone with "slut water" but I told you, my Aunt Carol was a bit of an outlier in the family.
"Nonsense. 'Personal moisturizer' is just what everyone calls it these days."
"Oh do they? And what does it moisturize? Your person?"
My Aunt Carol is the black sheep of the family, although with her fierce dyed-red hair and massive hippie earrings, she's more like the red sheep. It didn't used to be like that. A few years ago, my uncle died and left my Aunt Carol a ton of money, which she promptly used to fuel a long and obnoxious journey of sexual self discovery.
While my mother and other aunts watched in horror, she went to Spain and probably, I don't know, did things, and then she dyed her hair and started to wear chintzy stone jewelry to channel her inner goddess; these days she was peddling lingerie and "personal moisturizers" from a company called "Oh! So Good" that made my mother's ulcer tingle.
"Don't decent people sell Tupperware anymore?" said my mom, drawstringing tired lips round her cigarette, looking for some strength there since God never seemed to give her any. My aunt's hippie earrings were flapping now as she shoved all her goodies back into a branded tote bag.
"Just forget about it. Jesus," she said.
It was a Saturday morning, one of those boring domestic scenes where you just drink coffee and wait for some activity to suggest yourself. Living at home was fine, I guess, except for these little moments of drama.
Aunt Carol had been given a decent amount of leeway, as a widow you know, but my mom was steadily losing patience. My aunt's gift of the bestseller, "Sexual Freedom at Fifty and Beyond" didn't sit well next to "The Beauty of the Chaste Woman" and found its way into the trash. My aunt packed up her bag of tricks - all those things that the brains behind Oh! So Good thought would make the average housewife happy - and made for the door.
"I should go anyway. Some of us have lives to live, you know?" she said, with a flick of her beet-red and newly liberated hair.
"Ooh! Aunt Carol! Am I still housesitting for you this weekend?" I asked as she reached the door.
"Yes! I nearly forgot. Get your mom to drop you off. Jared and I will be leaving at around 9 on Friday to catch our plane, so come then and see us off."
"Jared? Is this a new one?" my mom said, freshly judgmental, smoke blowing out her nose like a dragon.
"He's not a 'one', he's a very nice man I met at gym, and he's coming with me, and we're both consenting adults" said my aunt, slowly.
"Consenting adults? Oh, well, I hope you and your person have fun with him," mom said.
I giggled, and Aunt Carol left, not about to let family or advanced age prevent her from enjoying her youth.
"What's the bet she's paid for his ticket and everything? He's probably less than half her age and twice as evil," mom said, who was really very good at virtue accounting.
My mom had been mad at Aunt Carol's indiscretions before, but this one had her particularly riled up. There was some extra energy in the way she spoke about this "one".
"Have you met him? This Jared?" I said.
"Never. But Alice told me he can't be a year or two older than you. It's disgusting."
Of course it was. Utterly disgusting.
So disgusting, in fact, that I had to find out more.


Chapter Three


Now, don't ask me how, but I'm not a complete stranger to boys. Even still, meeting Jared in person was ...surprising.
I arrived at my aunt's on Friday evening, ready to see her and her inappropriate lover off on their vacation. I brought a backpack with my laptop, some clothes, a book, a box of pop tarts. I would feed Buttons, maybe get stuck into an essay that was due on Tuesday.
It was all planned out.
The moment I stepped through my Aunt's front door, though, something instantly let me know that all my plans were about to be disrupted somehow. It could have been the intense stinking cloud of cologne I walked into, or it could have been the loud, laughing voice that seemed to fill the whole house. Or it could have been something else entirely. Buttons was well-known, for instance, for being able to judge when earth-tremors or quakes were coming because he'd scamper under furniture and meow and meow till it hit. Maybe it was like that. Maybe some part of my brain sensed a disturbance in the force, you know, and I could tell a quake was coming.
I slammed the door shut.
"Mel is that you, sweetie? We're in the kitchen!"
I found my aunt there, even more animated than usual, fussing with some snack bars and a tiny cooler bag, hippie necklace flapping over her big shelf of a bosom. "I'm just trying to pack some nibbles in case we get hungry! Although how many should I bring? Will they give us a snack do you think, babe?"
She turned to look at the guy standing beside her, a young guy who was eyeballing her closely. He was clearly the source of the cologne, the laughing I heard a second ago and all the disruptions that were about to hit my innocent, good girl life.
He was smiling. A kind of mocking smile, one filled with cockiness and spunk, and he stood there with both hands on his hips as though he had been transported straight from a beer commercial into my aunt's middle aged life.
"Babe, babe, no snacks, ok? Come on what do you want snacks for?" he said in a voice that sounded unnervingly young.
He was right.
If there was anything more lame and middle aged than packing seed bars for a plane trip, I couldn't think of it. I usually think my mom exaggerates with most things in life. For instance, I'm pretty sure that anal sex doesn't mean your children will have cleft palates, and that soy isn't a crop invented by the communists to make good people resist the teachings of Jesus. But still, staring at this young guy and my ridiculously red aunt, I had to say: this was quite something else.
Was she paying him? It didn't make sense. Why would a guy like this do a thing like that? And why would my sweet, goofy aunt do a thing like that, for that matter? He looked no older than me, it was true. And immediately feeling embarrassed, I wondered if I should have worn something a little nicer to judge him in.
He threw the seed bars back in the cupboard and shrugged, laughing.
"You're right! You're so right. Why am I packing them? God, I don't even like them. This is what I love about you, Jared, you're so carefree," she said, smiling a big flushed smile at him. Jared beamed right back at her. Gross. My eyes scanned over my aunt's matronly figure, over her freckled hands with her wedding ring still attached ("It's water weight! I'll take it off once the swelling goes down!").
My aunt was an elegant lady, of course, and I loved her to bits, but she was also fifty-four years old.
I glanced over at him, trying not to dwell on his branded hoodie and squeaky clean trainers. Did they ...you know ...? I shuddered to think. Just as I had pushed the thought out of my head, he leaned over and pecked her on her cheek, just like that, right in front of me. I swear, if they ended up an item I would not invite them to my wedding. No sir. My aunt's maroon hair alone would be enough to ruin the color scheme, for sure.
I cleared my throat and plunked my bag down onto a kitchen stool. I took out my laptop and plugged it in, getting ready for a long weekend where I could pretend that I was actually a grown up who lived alone.
My aunt began to fuss with a few more things in her bag. Jared turned his attention to me, eyeing my laptop.
"So you're Mel? I've heard all about you."
"And I've heard about you too," I said, unconsciously taking over my mom's work in her absence. He didn't respond to this, but kept eyeing the laptop.
"What's that for? Don't tell me you're going to study?! It's the weekend, girl, loosen up!"
I hated him. Settling down and putting Buttons in my lap, I casually replied, "No, no work, but I have other things I wanted to get done this weekend..."
He grinned at me. "Other things, eh? Looking at naughty things on the internet I bet."
My face burned. Aunt Carol absentmindedly swatted his meaty arm, "Oh leave her alone, babe, she's a good girl."
He stood there, the fool, staring at me full on. He winked, cracked a bubble of gum between his teeth. "Yeah, no, I'm sure she is," he said in an arrogant voice.
I wanted to hit him. I couldn't decide what irritated me more. The fact that my aunt was so dismissive about me, or the fact that this meathead had technically guessed one of my two big secrets within 5 minutes of meeting me. Nevermind, he would never know how right he was, and I certainly would never let him know my other secret.
I hugged and kissed my aunt goodbye and they hauled their luggage out to the car.
Hadn't he gone to school, like a decent, normal boy? Where on earth did my aunt even find him? Why was any of this happening, for that matter? It was annoying, to say the least. What was the point of anything if idiots like him could just swan in and take advantage of a vulnerable widow like me dear aunt? Although honestly, at this very second she didn't look quite so vulnerable as I would have liked.
Jared hoisted up her bags onto his broad shoulders, the spidery edges of some tattoos on his belly peaking out as he stretched upwards. He went out to the car, came back in and then slapped my aunt's ass as she grabbed her coat, and she both giggle and jiggled, reminding me of a very happy Miss Piggy. Bizarrely, he then spread his arms wide and demanded a hug from me, too. Before I knew it, he was squashing his indecently hard body against mine and squeezing me goodbye as well.
I stammered a goodbye and closed the door, nothing but my own surprise and Buttons's bored green eyes to keep me company. I sniffed my sweater: I smelled like him now. Gross. I tore it off and tossed it onto the sofa, unsettled by the whole thing. So what if I did look at naughty stuff on the internet? Who was he to judge, when he was running around with a woman more than twice his age?
I opened my laptop, clicking to open a secret browser, looking over my shoulder to see if Buttons had anything to say about it. Don't judge me, but my favorite these days was "2 tattooed jocks fuck teen" and I had watched it dozens of times before. I know, I know. But at least if I kept coming back to only this one clip, it would mean that I'd only technically watched one of them, which was less terrible than watching a whole bunch of them, right? I'd stop eventually, I was just stressed these days, that's all. I would give it up one day, definitely. I was a good girl, and this kind of nonsense was definitely not in my life plan. But oh well, it was just me and Buttons here, and I was pretty tired, and it didn't count since it was just this same clip anyway.
The familiar figures moved across the screen and I watched. Some badly behaved college boys, ink all over their hard chest and abs, roughly passing a girl between them. I was ashamed. My hand found its way into my skirt and I desperately rubbed that shame away. Then it was at the best part - the part where they're both, well, you know, and she's completely and utterly, well. You can just imagine. What a dirty slut she was. I sighed. It would all be fine just as long as I never watched anything more than this one clip. It would be OK, I'm sure.
Just then, with a little flutter of horror I realized: they look like him.
I looked closer at the screen and crunched up my face. Yup, just like him. Darn it. The same cocky smiles, the same toned shoulders and rough hands. I sat back, a little irritated. Well, he had completely ruined that for me, the idiot. I quickly closed the window and found Pinterest instead. Maybe the problem was that I was thinking too classic. Too traditional. Maybe instead of petit fours inside the rose desserts, it should be white éclairs? Buttons looked on, completely uninterested in my mortal soul.


Chapter Four


Well, they do say the devil finds work for idle hands, and that weekend, well, let's just say I didn't have much of anything to do and hands kept finding their way to where they shouldn't be. Buttons and I sat around and watched series; I cooked and added a paragraph here and there to my essay, slept in late the next morning...
But each time I shut my eyes, he was there behind my eyelids, stupid grey hoodie half unzipped and a big stupid grin on his face. And without being able to stop it, my mind hit "play" to its own evil little clip where he was somehow melded into my favorite forbidden pleasure. Well, at least it had been my favorite until he had tainted it. Well, tainted it even further. Whatever. You know what I mean.
Anyway the solution was simple; I'd just have to keep my eyes open, then. I fell asleep eventually, but I made sure to keep my hands outside the covers, you know.
Time floated away and soon it was Sunday evening and they came back, much the same way they had left. Jared seemed even more tanned than when he left and my aunt even ditzier somehow, and with more hippie bangles jangling on her arms. They were sorry, the flight was delayed a little, then there was some traffic on the drive back, and they hoped I hadn't been bored here all alone.
I was happy to leave, shall we say, the scene of the crime, and was hurriedly packing my backpack; my warm and innocent bed only a 10-minute bus ride away.
"Oh don't be silly, sweetie! Sleep here the night and I'll drop you in the morning. Your mom won't mind."
But will I?
Jared seemed completely unfazed by this suggestion, as outrageous as it was. It was like he just waltzed around all his life vacationing with women his mother's age and sleeping in houses with ...girls.
I cleared my throat to explain that I was a good girl and so on and that I couldn't possibly do that, but she was speaking again, rattling off in that excited way of hers.
"We can all watch a movie or something, I'm exhausted."
I most certainly did not want to watch a movie, and even more so didn't want to do "or something". Ok, just relax. Maybe my nasty secret (not that one, the other one) was making me jump to conclusions. I looked over at her two seater couch and imagined how hard I was going to judge this boy if he even so much as tried to get a crush on me, which he obviously would.
"Ok, sure, we can watch a movie. Or have an early night. Whatever."
Well, I was now in Aunt Carol's house, with a stranger, a stranger who was probably paid to you-know-what no less. I was irritated that they seemed totally unashamed of themselves. I suddenly had a thought. What if I paid him? He couldn't turn it down, it was his job basically, so he'd have to do whatever I told him, right? Technically? What a stupid thought. I went and sat on the couch and played with Buttons. My aunt flitted in and out of her room as she unpacked her bags, then, and you won't believe this, then he came and sat next to me.
"Get all your 'work' done this weekend?" he said, teasing me and making two quotes in the air as he spoke. I would later learn that this was one of his most stubborn habits. I couldn't think of anything to say, and the redder I went, the more it seemed to suggest exactly the answer I didn't want to give.
"Aunt Carol? Aunt Carol I think I'd better go home actually. I really need to finish this essay for tomorrow and I have classes in the morning anyway. I can still catch the bus ..."
He chuckled at me, getting far too close on the sofa.
Aunt Carol stuck her head through the living room door and frowned at me, a half-filled toiletry back in her hands. "Oh sweetie, you're so studious. Such a good girl. Fine, but why doesn't Jared take you? Jared just take my car, be a lamb."
"Yes ma'am" he said, and I wanted to smack him.


Chapter Five


"Seriously, you've never had a boyfriend? Not even one?" he was saying.
I couldn't believe he had gotten this nosy in a car trip this short. Was he deliberately driving slower than he needed to? "No, not one, and I might say it's not really any of your business, jeez."
He paused a little. "Really, but not even one?"
I fumed. He was driving my aunt's car like he owned it, spreading his legs wider than you'd think any human male was capable of, resting his elbow on the lip of the window like a total ass.
"Nope, not one. I suppose that's a little hard for someone like you to understand, huh?" I could hear my mother's voice in my own again.
"Aw, now what's that supposed to mean?"
"Nevermind. Whatever." I looked out the window, contemplating diving out and running home, anything to get rid of this smell of his cologne, filling up the car now. He was pretty hot, okay, if that's what you were wondering.
"No, what do you mean by that? Someone like me?"
"Jeez, I don't know. Forget it," and I wanted to, but before I knew it I was blurting out, "why are you with my aunt anyway? It's weird." I sounded like a little kid.
He grinned. "Weird? What's weird about it? Your aunt's a beautiful woman," he said this last piece like a joke, and it made me defensive.
I love Aunt Carol, even though she had bad taste and freckled hands. "Yes, and she's also inherited a lot of beautiful money, too" I said, thinking this was a pretty good quip, even if I did say so myself. I'm a pretty witty person, it just usually takes me the next day to think of things. The grin fell off his face and he stared at the road.
"Ah, I forgot, you're only 18. You think that love has nothing to do with money, and money has nothing to do with sex?"
My ears pricked at this word. In my family, we call it you-know-what. "I'm 19, actually, and I'm not an idiot. How old are you? You're old enough to be her son. That's pretty disgusting." To be honest, I didn't know why I had such a flash of anger towards him, this person I had barely spent 10 minutes with.
He looked like he didn't know either. "Well, I think it's disgusting that you think so little of your aunt that you just assume she doesn't know what she's doing."
I opened my mouth to speak but he interrupted me.
"And by the way, have you considered that she may be using me?"
I looked at his smooth, boyish hands on the wheel, his unlined forehead. Nope. He was definitely preying on her; there was no way around it. Besides, I was never wrong on questions of morality, although obviously he didn't know this yet.
"That's ridiculous. She's in a vulnerable condition. My uncle passed only a few months ago, did you know that?"
I couldn't believe how personal things had gotten. In my home, we usually said ...well, we just said nothing. Speaking of which, we were almost there.
"I did, because she told me. She's a strong woman, I know that. But now it's time for her to have a bit of fun, don't you think?"
"Oh and I suppose that bit of fun is you?" I asked, with as much sarcasm as I could muster, secretly hoping he wouldn't say the s-word again.
With a slick hand, he gestured towards his body and smiled a big cheesy grin. "Damn right it is!" he said.
"Gross"
Was he actually even wearing anything under that hoodie?
"You know, your aunt spent her whole life like you."
"Like what?"
"Judgmental. Close-minded. I took care of that." He chuckled, and I couldn't help but stare at his crotch for a split second. Gross.
We had arrived in my drive way, thank the Lord. I gathered up my bag and tried to look indignant, although it did feel as though we were cut short in the middle of the conversation, and I don't think he quite understood yet just how wrong he was.
"Be honest, are you going to keep seeing her?" Man he looked like such a douche, sitting there, legs spread wide, sideways smile and about 150% too much attitude, as though he was in his own music video or something.
He raised a single naughty eyebrow at me and smiled even more sideways. "Are you asking me if you get to keep seeing me?" he said, then winked.
I slammed the car door and marched inside. All I wanted to do was think about how wrong he was, but all I could think about was how my butt looked to him as I walked away and up the stairs.


Chapter Six


Just remember everyone, God never gives you any burdens that he knows you can't handle.
My burden's name was "Jared" (idiot) and my God did I carry him everywhere with me. To classes. As I watched TV. When I was alone, in bed, at night. Well, you can see the problem.
He was everywhere in real life too, and everyone in the family begrudgingly accepted his weird new role in my aunt's life. He seemed part sex-coach, part cheerleader, part gay friend. Thankfully there aren't too many gays in my town, but I have seen a few, and I like to think I know what I'm looking for - Jared was irritating, and never really settled on a side, I felt. He was clean shaven, boyish, but still predatory. He was a bit of chameleon, changing subtly depending on who he spoke to. He chatted easily with my aunt about yoga and scatter cushions for her living room, and stood outside our house and vaped and wore name brand loungewear and a gold chain. He had the manners of a thug, yet somehow people responded to him as though he was a dapper gentleman. It was confusing. Not only was he spending so much time at our house, he was refusing to fit into any easy categories. Like I said, what an ass.
Anyway, let me cut to the chase here. He kissed me. It was one afternoon and I had no classes. I was killing time at my aunt's, waiting for her so we could go out and shop for towels later. He barged in, found me in the kitchen and for some stupid reason, everything went quiet and he leaned in and kissed me. I froze. I wanted to tell him to do it again, but I was so angry with myself for thinking this that I blurted, "So, how much do I owe you now?"
And he looked a little hurt. I ran out the kitchen and sat down at my laptop, where house rules dictated I couldn't be bothered.
"By the way, you should clear your browser history" he said, closing the fridge and grabbing a banana from the fruit bowl. My skin nearly crawled off my face. He sidled up close to me, so close that his taut belly was right next to my face, so close I could smell a distant shower and ...something else on his skin.
"You're not my type, you know," I said, praying to God his crotch didn't move a single inch closer to my downturned eyes.
"Your type? Apparently, I am though," he laughed, tapped the screen twice with his finger and then walked out with his stupid banana.
That night, I masturbated so furiously I think I nearly passed out.


Chapter Seven


The road to hell is paved with ...well, I don't know really. I don't know how I ended up here, alone with Jared, as alone as Adam and Eve were in the garden. You know, my horizons were expanding. His argument that I was just as uptight as all the other women in my family had struck a nerve.
He was wrong: I was a reasonable person; I didn't have any sexual hang ups, no way. Through a vague series of decisions which I had trouble justifying to myself later on, I got him to agree to drive me out to the Carlisle forest parking lot, which even I knew was a place people went to ...do things.
My quiet rebellion took the form of a marijuana cigarette, and after some thought I decided this was not me falling into temptation, but rather me inoculating myself from it; doing research, you know, so I was prepared if I ever was tempted for real and so on. We parked and he rolled down the window to rest his elbow. Did he ever wear anything else but sportswear and caps? He pulled a wonky white cigarette from his pocket and gently tapped its dry end on the dashboard, his fat fingers seeming too crude for the task.
"Now, since you're only a baby, you should just have a little, ok?" he said.
I snorted. Imagine him, this ruffian, telling me to moderate myself. He pressed his lips together, held it there between them and lit it delicately, focused intently for a second on breathing it to life. Then he turned to me and offered it. I took it gingerly, placed it to my lips, puffed a little then spat out a jagged ribbon of smoke. That's it? That's all? I gave it back to him.
He was giggling.
"Yeah, yeah, good job. But try again now, and this time, really suck."
I shot him an unimpressed look.
"Sorry, I know, you already suck. Just inhale, ok? Like this." He leaned forward in his seat, the leather creaking under him, and I could smell the smoke on his breath as he hovered his palm over my chest.
"Breath in deep, into your lungs, so that your chest touches my hand, ok?"
He was like a brother. Like a pervy, douche idiot of a brother. And I wanted to kiss him again. How dare he.
I did as he said, and a hot puff of smoke penetrated my lungs, and my chest rose up to gently meet his waiting hand. A wild buzz filled my head; I was so dizzy I felt as though I had been slapped.
"Good ...good, ok hold it in now" he said quickly, pressing down hard on my chest and looking at me with laughing eyes. I held on as much as I could, but the burning eventually got the better of me, and I let go.
"Wow," I coughed and sputtered, giddy.
"What a lightweight" he said smiling. His hand stayed exactly where it was.
"You didn't say it would hurt," I whined, "it really burns."
The leather creaked again as he moved his hand up to my throat and stroked it there for a moment, then dragged it down again to rest on my breasts.
With my buzzing head, I looked down at his hands, then at him.
"Your hands are so soft" I said, which was totally not what I wanted to say then. I wanted to tell him to take his filthy hands off of me, and just what did he think he was doing and did I say he could? But all that came out was, "I didn't imagine they'd be so soft."
The moment was so awkward I fumbled and let the cigarette drop. It fell into the seat crevice, not before burning a quick pink hole on my thigh, and we both went scrambling after it.
"Ha! Only users lose drugs," he said and fished it out, although to do so meant he had to stretch the full length of his body over mine and grope around the other side of my seat. He triumphantly held up the now extinguished cigarette, but instead of going over to his side of the car again, he stayed there, on my lap, smiling. For some reason, this seemed incredibly funny to me. I burst out laughing and he laughed with me.
He was laying on my lap, smiling up at me, striking joke poses like some 50s belle in a magazine shoot. He put his hands under his chin, pouting, pretended to fluff his hair.
"Cut it out!" I laughed. I looked at his face, suddenly seeing for the first time how open it was, how hopeful and simple and playful. It made me feel weird.
"You sell your body for sex," I said, and instantly regretted it. It was like I was unable to say all the things I should be saying, and could only blather like an idiot.
He didn't respond. He lit the thing again, took a long drag and blew the stream of smoke out the window, watching it go. He took another hit then stubbed it out on the ashtray. His face changed.
"Mel, I don't sell sex, you know."
"Then what do you sell?" There was no more judgment in my voice. I really was curious. I really wanted to know everything. I hated playing the clueless religious girl all the time; was it so bad that I just wanted to know? Did he kiss them? Did they pay for his time? Per act? Per each ...body part?
"I provide a service."
"Oh?"
"Yeah... Look at me, what do you see?"
"An idiot." I giggled.
"Exactly, you see a totally handsome and charming young buck. I'm a machine, Mel. I can fuck holes into walls, I can ruin a marriage just by looking at a woman's ass right. I'm young. I'm hot."
I was giggling uncontrollably now at the thought of him with his you-know-what stuck in a bit of drywall.
"But I give women what they really want, and for that service I get compensation. In this case, money."
I had never heard him speak with so much passion. "So what do they really want then...?" I asked quietly, the hot fuzzy feeling in my head was starting to creep down to the rest of my body.
"Let me show you" he said, and sat up quickly.
The air in the car seemed heavier all of a sudden. My eyes felt like they were swimming in my skull. The thought of this made me start giggling again. He reached out and placed two hands on my shoulders, shooting his gaze straight at mine, like a laser.
It shut me right up and I stared back, hypnotized.
He began cooing at me softly, with a buttery, unspeakably sexy look on his face. "Mel, oh my god Mel, have I said how beautiful you are? You're like a sexy witch, I feel like you've cast a spell on me... your eyes ..."
Here he slowly, slowly extended gentle fingertips and touched the edge of my cheek, as though he was surprised I was made of flesh and blood and not mist. His eyes were riveted right on mine, and as overwhelming as they were, I couldn't look away. There was nothing at that moment but the stillness in the car and his rapt attention on me, so raw it was more like worship, so intense it felt like a spotlight, but one that was not only illuminating me, but devouring me, seeing down into concealed depths. Blood rushed to my face and I stammered, trying to say something.
"Is this ...is this real?" I said.
He smiled one long, slow, languid smile and then snapped his eyes away from mine, throwing himself back into his seat. "Nah. That was just an illustration. That's what I'm talking about. That feeling, that thing you felt right there? That's what women want. And how much would you pay for that?"
I tried to think, but my head was a little scrambled.
"Yeah, well, they pay a lot," he said.
We sat in silence.
"I'll probably have to pay someone to have sex with me one day you know. Or just die a virgin," I said, surprised at how easily I had spoken this confession, and how it hurt me the moment I said it out loud. All at once I felt like I wanted to cry.
He looked at me quizzically. "Hey, hey Mel, don't say stuff like that. God, your family is really fucked up."
"Yeah," I said quietly.
My tongue felt loose and it suddenly seemed like, well, why not tell him all this stuff? He was the last person on earth who was allowed to judge me. Listening to people was basically part of his job, anyway.
"Do you ever, you know, with ...younger women?" The voice I spoke with was not my own, and seemed to come from far away, somewhere outside my body. This, I guess, was what they called being "high". It was nice I guess. He looked at me again, the quizzical look intensifying.
"Well, you're not really my type, you know," he laughed.
It was like a stab. The moment was so strange, and I was there, desperately trying to grasp what I was saying and he was saying, that this little quip seemed to me like a sword sunk straight into my heart. Without thinking about it, two fat tears rolled down my cheeks.
"Hey! Don't cry! Oh man, just chill. It's OK. OK?'
He looked genuinely concerned. He reached over the folded ends of his hoodie sleeve and smeared away the tears. "Look, no offense, but you're ...how do I put this? You're young. You're kind of inexperienced. And you've got ...issues. About sex."
I sobbed loudly, "I do not have issues," I said, realizing that the snot bubble on my nose at that point was seriously undermining my credibility. It felt like one of the arguments I would have with an older brother about whether I was or was not too much of a 'fraidy cat to ride the same rollercoaster all the big kids did.
"Oh yeah? You look at some pretty messed up shit online."
"That's private, you creep."
"Whatever."
I was still smarting from the suggestion that he had anything other an all-consuming obsession with deflowering me. For the first time, I found myself with the ridiculous thought that Aunt Carol had something that I didn't.
The world went on outside us, busy, far removed and uninterested in our little car-sized drama.
"...if I paid you?" I heard myself saying in a stranger's voice. I didn't know what I was doing, but it was scary. I wanted him. And I wanted him to grab me and throw me around and call me a slut and fuck me till it hurt. Oh God where did that come from?
"Mel, you're high, you don't know what you're saying."
"Don't be so patronizing to me." It was a word I had just learned, and was proud I had remembered it.
"I'm not! But you're out of your depth. This was a mistake."
"No it wasn't."
'You have no idea what you're getting yourself into."
"Yes, yes, I know, I'm a baby and I couldn't possibly understand anything. Whatever. You're only a few years older than me, you know. What makes you such an expert?"
"I never said I was -"
"You don't do anything mystical, you just sell your body. For sex. Whatever else you say about it, at the end of the day that's all it is. You're the one in denial."
He went quiet. In my small, teenaged way, I felt this as a victory, and pressed on.
'Show it to me. I want to see it. Show me what my idiot aunt thinks is worth throwing her life away for." I looked down at the dark wet streaks my tears had left on his cotton sleeve.
"Show it to you? My...? You're crazy," he said.
"I'll give you $100 dollars if you show me your ...dick." I had never said that word out loud, not least to a man.
He stared at me, jaw working silently. Perhaps I was indeed just saying stuff because I was high.
"Ok, fine. What's the big deal? You think I care? This is so fucking immature..." he said, loosening the drawstring on his pants. The next few moments unfolded quickly, but would remain burnt into my mind for many, many years to come.
He wasn't wearing any underwear, to my surprise. He yanked down the elastic of his grey track pants and there it was, the first real life penis I had ever seen, a beautiful thing, kind of scary looking. All I could do was stare. With a little flutter of recognition, I realized he was slightly ...hard. It was a smooth cock, smooth as the rest of him, dead-straight and milky white, the head of it a bruised pink color ending in a flared rim under which two, just two, fine blue veins disappeared. I was mesmerized. Dicks, it turns out, are rather complicated up close, and not just some devil-tubes designed to poke you and your virtue to hell. It was its own little organism. And it looked so smooth. My mind flashed to how pillowy soft his hands had felt on my chest only a moment ago - or was it hours ago? I couldn't tell.
"Satisfied? Do they teach you at bible camp what to do with one of these?" he scoffed.
Actually I was mightily satisfied, but said nothing. I hated seeing him so defensive all of a sudden. I wanted him to be playful again, and lighthearted. I wanted him to look at me like he did a moment ago. I guess I would pay for that feeling again after all. I was too tightly wound. I was too uptight. Maybe he had a point and wasn't a total meathead.
"Well that's a very nice penis," I said, hoping for the first time that I hadn't hurt his feelings. I felt the beginning of a headache forming. He nodded and tucked himself back into the waist band, and I must admit, I was sorry when he put it away again, and I stared for a few moments at his crotch, almost missing the sight of it there.
"Sorry for calling you an idiot all the time."
"No problem."
"And sorry I insulted your ...profession."
"Don't worry about it."
"So ...will you?"
He flashed nervous eyes at me. I don't know if it was because I had just seen his pink, bulging cock, but he suddenly seemed kind of naked in the way he was looking at me.
"Let's go home," he said.
He zipped his hoodie up as high as it would go and started the engine, and we drove home in silence. I felt the smoky feeling in my head subside a little, and came down with the strong impression that things were now changed permanently, and would never be the same again. It was comfortable with him now, somehow, and yet deeply terrifying all the same.
He dropped me outside my house.
"Use some eye drops and brush your teeth. If you still feel the same tomorrow morning, I'll think about it."


Chapter Eight


I used some eye drops. I brushed my teeth. I lowered my eyes and went up to my room. Even if I had bumped into my mom, she probably wouldn't have detected anything, seeing as her pamphlets probably told her that those who did drugs sprouted syphilis sores on their forehead in the shape of the word UNCLEAN or something.
I closed my bedroom door and tried to think.
Did I really have issues? Issues about you-know-what? What was the point of being a virtuous virgin if nobody wanted me anyway? It was an ugly thought, that men would want something other than purity in a woman. That Reverend Peters maybe didn't know everything about the hearts and minds of men. Or women, for that matter. It had never occurred to me before that my virginity could actually be a handicap. I felt thrown off balance. And worse, I now had three secrets. Or even four? Five?
I went to my bed and lifted the covers, pulling out a secret box hidden underneath. Stashed inside the box: a few items that Aunt Carol had mercifully pretended she hadn't noticed me steal from her Oh! So Good bag of tricks. There was a small packet of "personal lubricant", which I had not decided how I would use yet, a cheaply made black g-string with a magenta bow at the center, some body glitter, a ribbed condom and a small jar of edible chocolate body paint.
To another woman, all of this might have seemed like tacky junk, but to me it was a little treasure chest of something powerful and dangerous, a dress up kit where I could play at being everything I wasn't. I wasn't that surprised to see his dick, honestly, but I was surprised by how much I liked it. I briefly thought about how there didn't seem to be any room, on any of my Pinterest boards, for such a tacky pink-and-black theme like this one.
These new thoughts thrummed over me: maybe my mother was wrong. Maybe Aunt Carol, with her freckled hands and over processed hair and mid-life crisis ...maybe she was right. Maybe he was, too. I stripped down, slid on the g-string and took a long look at my reflection. Wrapped round the mirror frame were faded and torn cherub stickers from first grade, some plastic flowers. But inside the frame was a young girl in black lingerie. It was a striking, and uncomfortable mess. It was an accurate picture of my life, in other words.
I ran experimental hands down over my body, trying to find answers there, trying to determine that precise fold or curve where my virtue was hidden, or else proof that I was as bad as him. I found only soft, warm flesh, and skin that made me think of him again, in the car. Vulnerable and pinkish - how could anything be wrong with flesh?
My nipples protested against the cold. I watched goose bumps form on my upper thighs. Jared didn't judge me, although I had judged him. I thought again about my request. His open ended answer. My head was no longer as fluffy, and a little ache of embarrassment was growing, but something else: I didn't change my mind. I had only said what I had been thinking for a long time now, ever since he appeared in my aunt's life months ago.
I looked at myself once more, then got back dressed. I didn't want to be like my mother. And I didn't want to be like Aunt Carol either. I wanted to be my own person, and do what I wanted to do.
And at that point, there were many, many things I wanted.


Chapter Nine


The next day, and the whole of the week after that, I heard nothing from Jared.
I didn't open my hidden box again, and tried to pretend I wasn't offended that he wasn't just dying to hear what my decision was. I couldn't bear the humiliation of texting him, even though I had his number. So I waited.
He wasn't with Aunt Carol either, who seemed disturbingly unaffected by his absence. They had been a little cool with each other ever since they came back from their vacation. Didn't she care that he was probably off with other women? Throwing that easy smile off to anyone who had the cash for it? But she genuinely didn't seem to care, and I was irritated, both for myself and on her behalf.
After two weeks had passed, I more or less resigned myself; the weird Jared-shaped hole in my life had been allowed to get way, way too big anyway. Besides, two weeks was just enough for two times at church, which seemed to be the magic number to snap me out of ...it. I had gone more than fourteen whole days without watching any porn, and perhaps that many hours without imagining it, with Jared plugged into all the leading roles and with my own innocent limbs instead of that girl's.
I was doing well.
So, of course that's when he decided to pitch up again.
My mom and I were at my aunt's, who was graciously hosting our bake sale prep but not interested in the least in helping, especially after we didn't laugh at her joke to put booze in the cupcakes. Then he waltzed right in, like he owned the place. My mother's face, even if it wasn't already halfway to doing it already, nearly fell to the floor, and she stammered and tried to introduce herself to "Jeffrey".
My aunt seemed a little boastful and showed him off, proud that her contribution to the day was not a box of baking equipment for a church function, but a hot stud in a muscle shirt.
"Oh hi Jeffrey," I said, hoping he'd catch a good glimpse of how modestly I was dressed. He didn't. He was instantly between my mom and aunt somehow, and they were cooing over him like he was a new baby, except the baby had thick biceps and you could see his nipples.
"Carol you've never bought him over, I keep telling you, why don't you bring him over for dinner."
"And share him? Never"
"Carol!"
"He's not interested in old fart things like dinner you know."
"Now ladies, ladies..." he said, as though he was born to fend of stay at home moms throwing themselves at him. I knew my aunt had fully lost her senses but I had to say I was surprised my mother seemed to like him. He had both his hands raised, and both his eyebrows too, as if he'd be breaking up a fight between them any second now.
"Come help us in the kitchen Jeffrey," mom said, but my aunt had pulled him onto the couch with her. He scarcely looked at me. In fact, I wondered if he remembered our exchange at all. What a slut. Can you call a man a slut?
The two women then busied themselves with fixing him something to drink, and they both simply had to do it, and they were both sure the other one wasn't doing it correctly. I was alone in the living room with him, again, because of course I was.
"Nice of you to grace us with your presence," I said.
He beamed.
"Aww... little Mel missed me! Well, I missed you too."
"You're such a liar."
"Yeah OK, you got me, I don't usually miss people. Let's get out of here - your mom's going to make me frost cookies or something. Wanna go for a drive?"
I eyed him suspiciously. Not much of a gentleman. "Fine."
We made our excuses (we'll go to the mall to fetch more sugar!) and were back in the car again, which was strange since the day before I had vowed up and down that nothing he could do would make it up to me, and I didn't care how sorry he was for ignoring me for ages, I was a good girl, and he'd better not dare treat me like that again.
But instead, I sat nervous in the car - this time, his car - and I didn't know what to say. It seemed pretty useless, in hindsight, to read about all those parables and fairy tales if I was just going to lose my virginity to some toy boy in a car. Oh my god where did that come from?
By the time we stopped in the mall parking lot, all two weeks of my church-going had been undone. He turned off the engine. But instead of saying something, anything, he moved to get out and go into the store. Didn't we have the hugest thing to talk about?
"Jared..." I started.
"Yeah?"
This was all wrong. He hadn't even glanced at my skirt, the shortest one I owned. "Well, I went home and thought about it..."
"Thought about what?"
I wanted to die. My face stung, but he laughed,
"Hey, I'm just kidding! Chill. You take things too seriously."
"I want to," I said quickly. Perhaps a bit of romance could be wrangled from this wreck after all. It had to be him anyway. All the boys in my youth group were hideous.
"You want to ...what?" he said, teasing, then ducked out of the way as I tried to punch his arm. "Don't worry, I won't make you say it, I know how you Christian girls are."
I suppressed a smile, even though I was majorly offended. Seriously.
"Good. Ok. I'm busy this week. I'll come and fetch you on Thursday and we'll go to my place. Bring $800."
I swallowed hard. Was he joking again? This was outrageous. Surely he didn't expect me to...?
"What, you thought you wouldn't have to pay?"
I would have died rather than admit that I did think that, actually, and assumed that only, well, older ladies had to pay. Surely he should be grateful that I was letting him... and not the other way round...
"No, of course not," I said, not wanting him to catch even a whiff of desperation. Just business then. Nothing funny here at all. There was the small detail of me not actually having $800, but I pushed away the thought.
We sat silent for a while.
"I'll bump the price down a bit, if you'll agree to let me do things my way."
I stared at him.
"I'll think about it," I said, and he laughed. We went inside the mall and bought sugar.


Chapter Ten


The only thing I had in my sexual arsenal was a stolen black g-string and my one short skirt, which I already knew had absolutely zero effect on him. Everything had been fastidiously organized: I was "going to Alice's house for a sleepover" and both my mom and aunt were too engrossed in chatting about when Jared would come back they barely noticed. He would come at 5, when I was the only one home, and Alice had been bribed and threatened to within an inch of her life to play along. The stage was set, and I was realizing with some irritation that I had no outfit for the occasion.
It didn't matter, because the second we arrived at his house, he ordered me to strip down. No hello. No jokes, no anything. Just, "Take that off. Anyway, don't you wear that to church?"
I did, but tried to act as though a response was beneath me. In truth, the most shameful thing at that moment was that I had managed to scratch together just $641, but what was he going to do? Call the police? 'Hello officer, this lovely girl has robbed me of one sex and didn't cough up, please arrest her' - I think not.
"Take it off? I'll get cold" I said.
"Oh, you'll warm up."
His house was sparse, a bit like I had expected, the den of someone who was a High School student only a second ago, and the recent money that had come into the decoration hadn't quite pushed out the Playstation or frat-boy posters. The entire place smelled like his cologne.
I walked to the bathroom to get out of my clothes and get things underway.
"Where are you going? I said strip."
Oh.
I cautiously unbuttoned my skirt and took it off, then removed my top as well, lingering a little in my bra and the g-string, wondering what he would have to say about them.
"All the way, everything off," he said. He was sitting on a bar stool and running his eyes over my body. Did he like my breasts? Was I turning him on at all? Was this just business as usual? It was hard to say.
"You know it's my first time, right?" I said as I peeled off the bra and panties and laid them down over my clothes, folded neatly on another bar stool.
"Yeah it's my first time, too. My first time deflowering a bratty little princess like you. And I'm going to enjoy it."
I was too shocked to say anything. I didn't know what to think first; that he thought so little of me ...or that he seemingly enjoyed thinking it. You know, for a guy who had talked me into this and basically led me astray, you'd think he'd take more responsibility for all of this. I stood still, waiting for my next order, I guess. Could he call the Better Business Bureau if he found out I didn't have the cash? What do you think $159 worth of "his way" would look like, anyway?
I straightened my shoulders and stood tall, stark naked. Let's see what everyone makes such a fuss about.
He slid off the bar stool and sidled up to me, then, maintaining an excruciating inch of distance at all times, he moved round my body, top to bottom, the front and the back, as though sizing me up. Each little hair stood on end under his gaze. I had the dumb realization that of all the porn clips I had seen, curiously they missed all these beginning parts. Were we officially started now? Was I, you know, "on the clock"?
"You need to relax," he said, still surveying me. "You can almost see the tension in your muscles." He stepped back and delivered his diagnosis: "You need some weed."
I shook my head. Once was enough, that's for sure.
"Ah, I thought we were going to do this my way?"
"But ...weed makes me cough. And say stupid things."
"Incorrect. That was a stupid thing to say, and if you smoke now with me, then you'll start speaking sense."
"But..."
"You didn't come here with any money, did you?"
My mind raced. I said nothing.
"No, you didn't. So it's on the house. But on my terms. And I say smoke, so you must."
I could have protested there, could have told him I had indeed brought money, that he had to do what I said, but something made me bite my tongue. I was curious about where this was going. I could stand to listen. At least for a little while, right?
I nodded, and he turned and started to fuss with something inside a little tin he had on the table. It was pretty inconvenient, having to stand there like an idiot while he chopped and rolled, but I bet he kind of enjoyed it, what with me being such a despicable Christian girl. If I'm honest, I also get irritated with how much of a killjoy I could be. Maybe he could beat it out of me. Oh my god where did that come from?
"Oh Jesus will you just relax? You look as though I'm about to bite you," he said, handing me a faintly glowing joint.
I took the joint. Apparently, it doesn't take very long to get completely used to being naked. By the time he had turned around again, the whole thing seemed almost boring to me. Maybe all this sex business was actually easy as pie. I took it in my hands and inhaled a long, careful puff.
"Don't forget to inhale! Here," he said, tapping his own chest. I liked that had taught me something. That we had this secret between us. But the secrets sure where racking up.
The smoke went in me, again, and this time I knew to relax into the weird, warping sensations it brought to my head, my face, my lips, the tips of my fingers. I started giggling, then I giggled at the fact that I was giggling. I took another drag, just to see if I had the technique down. I did.
He was leaning back on his bar stool again, one hand casually propping up his head, looking at me with an amused expression.
"You know, I had my doubts, but you really are a pretty bad girl after all," he said.
"Bad? No way, I'm a good girl."
"Uh huh, that's why you're standing here buck naked and smoking a blunt in my house right now."
He had a point.
I was reminded again how smoking seemed to take the edge off things. How the stakes just didn't seem that high anymore. And how he looked different somehow. Cute, even. My head fell back, of its own accord, and I relished the sensation of my ponytail brushing the skin on my lower back.
"Loosen your hair," he said.
And I did. For a brief moment, a little bubble of my shampoo scent puffed into the room against his overwhelming cologne. It died down instantly.
He stood up, grabbed my hand and led me to a low, distressed looking futon. We sat, and I swear I was overcome for a moment by just how comfy, how lovely that futon was. I briefly considered a nap.
"You're cute when you're stoned," he said. I laughed and snorted. I wanted to tell him that I had waited all day for this. That I was so horny I had had to sneak to the bathroom every half hour and touch myself. I had snuck all the way up to the brim of an orgasm and then backed off, saving it for later. For now.
He was up close all of a sudden, and every bit of my body seemed at that point to be made of feelers, of little receptors that prickled when he touched my shoulders, my neck. He leaned in and kissed me, and I melted. It was a quiet, unsure kiss, hesitating on the lips, not quite fully committing. It drove me nuts. I leaned further, trying to kiss him more deeply, but he pulled back, teasing a little.
"Ok, so first, you'll have to suck me."
Ok. Fine. I had seen this done. Piece of cake.
Slowly, he took off his shorts, then his white gym shirt. I gasped to see a massive, intricate black tattoo on the side of him, big as a shark's bite, and made of complicated geometric shapes. "I never knew you had a tattoo!" I said, and momentarily forgot my assignment. He smiled and dutifully showed me all his other tattoos, watching my face as I looked at his hard forearms, his tight hips, and the one on his back.
"Now stop stalling and suck me," he said again, and brandished a cock that had been rapidly growing while I was distracted with other things. It wasn't nearly the same creature I had met the first time round. No, this was a mean, dangerous looking thing, more purple than pink, the dimensions of my forearm, only far more obscene somehow. I giggled. There was no way I was going to fit that in my mouth.
He playfully pushed me down on to the futon and I fell easily. Kneeling over me, he placed it right up to my lips, and I clasped two hands round it, thinking about how those girls in the clips seemed to swallow everything so easily. It smelt warm. Underneath his obnoxious cologne smell was a subtler, more powdery scent. The scent, perhaps, of his unadorned skin. I nuzzled his cock against my cheeks for a moment and then closed my lips around the tip, and heard him murmur his approval. There was something warm and delicious growing inside me as well; a diffuse, inner itch. I lowered my lips and tried to find space in my mouth for some of the length. The taste was something entirely new to me, like watermelon flavored gum completely ruined with too much salt. Like something faintly sour. Like accidentally licking iron.
"Don't be shy, more," he said, and I obeyed. I worked my lips and tongue up and down the length, which seemed only to get bigger the more I tried to fit it in. Those two small veins were there, bigger now, the same dim, washed out blue of this tattoos. His hand gripped the hair at the back of my head and tugged me forward, bringing all of it deep to the back of my throat, where I reflexively gagged, opening my mouth even more.
"Good. Go that deep," he said softly.
I pulled back, sucked him in again, learning what made him swell on my tongue, and which angle I needed to tilt my head to accommodate the most of him. He pulled his dick out eventually, and it was wet and red. I felt my body twinge in anticipation of what was coming next.
"It's always the most uptight ones that turn out to be such sluts..." he said to nobody in particular, absentmindedly stroking himself. I felt my own familiar wetness growing between my legs.
"Are you absolutely sure you want to do this? After I fuck you, that's it, you won't be a virgin anymore."
"I know."
"And this is going to hurt a little."
"I know."
The inner itch was growing, and, perhaps because of the buzz in my head or because I was tired of having everyone tell me what to do and what not to do, I flopped back onto the futon and splayed my legs, hands clutching under each knee. It was such an outrageous gesture, I couldn't help but start giggling again. A little drop glistened at the tip of his cock, menacingly. I could feel how excited I was. I could almost smell it. He smiled and leaned in again for a kiss, but didn't linger this time.
"See? You're an even bigger slut than I am."
He kneeled above me again, the expanse of his chest suddenly seeming so huge to me. He lay his cock down onto my little slit, and lifted it up again, pulling a sticky thread of moisture up as he did so.
"Are you ready?" he asked, although the question seemed answered already. He pressed himself up into the wet entrance and pushed just a little, just the tiniest bit, and my body ached and resisted him. He pulled back.
"Does that hurt? I'm sorry."
I smiled. It did hurt. But I lifted my hips up to invite him to continue.
The swollen head touched me again, and this time the movement was a little more insistent. My poor, unsuspecting body was dousing him furiously with wetness, and he moved into me, a tightness closing instantly around him and holding just his head inside me. It stung, badly.
"Shh... just breathe. Here," he said and placed a hand on my chest. As we had done in the car, I slowed my breathing and filled my lungs till my chest rose up to meet his palm. It worked. Each breath soothed me, and the searing sensation where our bodies touched mellowed into something far, far more interesting.
With effort, he pulled clean out again, leaving an instant ache for him to be there again. I had waited all day for it, and now I wanted it again. I was a good girl, and I didn't want to be any more, and this magnificent chunk of flesh was going to be my falling, was going to open new and profane doors for me...
"Cute little slut ...you want it again, don't you?" he said, and before I had time to confirm, the fat head was again inside me, stretching me out completely.
"Stop teasing me!" I giggled.
"Brat! Remember, we're following my rules here. I'm the expert, you have no idea what you're doing."
It was a little comical, I suppose, how we were stuck together like this, his big dick plugged into me. I wondered what Reverend Peters would say if he had to walk in right now and saw exactly what I was doing to my little pussy.
The knotty muscles of his shoulders worked under his skin as he propped himself over my small, badly intoxicated body. We were, after everything was said and done, only a few years apart in age. This body of his was so young, so arrogant. It had none of my doubt and self flagellation. It was unapologetic. I wanted it. And I wanted to be like it.
"Ok, just a bit more. Keep breathing."
With a careful tilt of his strong hips he slid another inch into me, then paused, the dark geometric shapes on his skin betraying his own breathing. I clasped at both of his forearms and anchored myself against waves of both pain and pleasure. This was not what I was expecting at all. I felt myself pulsing and trembling around his brutal cock, and then, to my utter disbelief, he pulled out again, showing the wet sheen my pussy left behind.
"You're teasing me again!" I said.
"Of course I am. How else am I going to make you beg for it, huh?" he flashed that irritating, smack-worthy sideways smile at me and raised his eyebrows. I squirmed a little to shift my hungry hips closer to his, but he dodged me and swiftly pinned my arms down and smiled.
"You really are very bad at doing as you're told" he said, then pecked my cheek. "Don't worry though, I'll teach you."
The ache was unbearable. Slowly, so slowly I could scream, he slid himself back in again, and instead I wanted to scream from the pain as he went well past the old limit and probed me open inside with the full, unrestrained length of his cock. It took my breath away, and as my protests died on my lips, I slammed my eyes closed and tried to remember to breathe. It was glorious, and painful as hell, and it seemed, at the moment, such a bizarre idea that one person's body should be inside another's. I was really high, you know.
Wedged into me, filling my little pussy to the brim, he tenderly lowered his body onto mine and planted a few consolation kisses onto my neck and arms, as if to say sorry. "Now, don't be such a baby anymore, you can take it. When you're ready, I'm going to fuck you hard, OK? And I won't hold back. But I won't do a thing until you tell me."
He buried his head into the crook of my neck and he breathed there, and I breathed with him, my body becoming accustomed to this new violation. I have to say, with a fat cock locked into me and my head buzzing the way it was, I couldn't honestly see why people made such a fuss of sex. Surely even Reverend Peters could appreciate how delicious all of this was?
I squeezed and molded my body around him, getting used to the idea that I had lost my virginity now, officially, and seemed to have found instead something else naughty and delicious. He was rocking inside me gently now, with small movements that ground against my clit. We rested like this together for a while, relaxing into each other, and breathing. How hard could he fuck me, really? I wasn't scared.
'Ok, I'm ready," I mumbled and arched my pelvis up to bump my hipbones against his. I could still call some of the shots, here, after all.
He flashed a devil's grin at me and glanced down at himself submerged inside my little slit, then wrapped crude hands round my waist and pulled a little harder down my body, driving the very last few atoms of his hot dick into me. With one confident movement, he pulled away and slammed back into me, hard.
I screamed. This scream was muffled by another savage pump, then another, then another, my newly opened passage submitting to stroke after vicious stroke. He held me down firmly, the pads of his thumbs pressing down beside my belly button, the full force of his toned body pummeling down into mine with swift, focus slaps of his curling hips.
"Little bitch. You like that, don't you?" he said angrily, a violent vein throbbing all the way from his jawline into his collarbone. I opened my mouth to protest, but he delivered a string of fierce, unbridled blows into my pussy, now streaming wet and clenching desperately all around him. I could scarcely utter a word. By now he had bumped me right to the edge of the futon, and my head dangled off the edge.
Each time he thrust into me, he lingered at the hilt, grinding his strong hips against mine and rubbing the smooth skin of his belly into my quivering clit. I was no stranger to these new feelings that were swirling inside, but this time, the sensations were more melting, sent deeper into me by his merciless cock, far deeper than I had imagined, even in my darkest thoughts. With each plunge, I nudged closer and closer to an orgasm that seemed to tighten and grow at the base of my spine, at the very deepest places he was touching me.
He was fucking me hard now, sending almost frightening waves into my open hips, but I didn't care. My head lolled back on the futon and I opened completely to him, too exhausted to contain myself anymore. When it finally hit me, my bucking body slammed hard up against his, and wave after wave of warm convulsions moved through my inexperienced body. I think I must have cried out, or tried to, but the force of my coming pushed hard on his cock out and he slid out, fell back on the futon and watched my face contort with pleasure.
He moved closer again, and I felt the clench of his abdominal muscles as he came too. With a soft growl, he poured spurt after spurt of thick cum onto my still twitching belly. I was so thrilled by this I grabbed him close and held my body to his, the final sputters of his orgasm twitching inside his cock, now sandwiched by both of our bellies. We lay lie this for a moment, trying to find our breath again.
I had been attempting my whole life to be the good girl, to keep correct, and righteous, and chaste, with some dim expectation that this alone would win me the right to enjoy my body, or someone else's. That sex was only for those who jumped through the right hoops, that it was expensive, and dangerous, and dirty, and something other only people did. And my Pinterest wedding board and porn habits were fighting a battle inside me: sex with all the trimmings, versus sex. Raw sex. Sex that didn't need a justification, or a white dress, or a guest list of church members. With a blank realization it hit me: this body was always mine. I was always free to use it, to enjoy it. And to give it away entirely...
"Are you sure that was your first time?" he said, gathering himself a little and smiling at me.
"I know. I can't believe I didn't do it sooner."
I felt dreamy, expansive. He didn't seem quite so smug to me anymore.
With a casual kiss on my forehead he peeled his body away from mine and we both noticed with some shock a large smear of blood. It was pressed between both of us, like a red Rorschach blot, two mirror images of a bloody tree, or a hand with too many fingers.
Panic flashed in his eyes.
"Oh shit. I did hurt you..."
I looked down, freshly deflowered and still ruminating on my new persona as Girl That Fucks, and shrugged. "I don't think my body has ever been happier," I said simply, and I meant it.
He flopped onto his back and we both stared at the ceiling for some time, lost in our own thoughts, only the flesh of our arms connecting us.
It was a brave new world, you know. My virginity, for all the fuss I had made of it for years, was nothing but a thin membrane separating me off from a world I had never even imagined before. And now it was gone. I tried to find some shame in my body somewhere, to see if I could return to my old mindset where this boy laying beside me represented the ultimate threat. But there was none. Everything felt right and good.
In fact, what wasn't fitting was ...all the other stuff. Why have a wedding at all? What was the point of covering up the skin, lovely as it was? Why marry one person anyway, when we were all in possession of such beautiful bodies? Bodies that were capable of such wonders? Why didn't people do this more often? What could be more simple and real than fucking a hot boy on a futon and having a smoke, in other words?
It took perhaps only one or two minutes, but my whole world had been turned upside down. I lay there thinking intently, on my back, with a little crime scene on my belly where my old self had been killed, and joyfully. As quickly as my virginity was gone, all the cogs and wheels of my life - a life built on that virginity - were shuffling and reorienting themselves. And how much space there was left over in my head when all that bullshit fell away!
"Earth to Mel. Hello. Are you still here with me?" he laughed, and I snapped my attention back to his expectant face. I could only smile at him.
"Ah, cock-drunk I see. It's an effect I have on girls, I know. You need a shower I think."
I blinked and looked around me, the world a different place. The membrane had been broken, and behind it reality seemed plain and clean enough already. I laughed as he dragged me out of my reverie and we went to the bathroom together.
He playfully slapped my ass. "Such a bad girl" he said.
Sure, why not?


Chapter Eleven


"It's all that smut and nonsense you bring into the house, Carol. You're my sister, but honestly, I think some of the blame is yours here," said my mom, smoking with more spite than she usually did.
"She's not a baby anymore. She's 22 for God's sake. You know, it's not so bizarre that a young girl like her wants to have a little fun. Such a pretty girl, too."
"Too pretty if you ask me. And it's not like she's got that many good role models to look up to, does she?" here my mom stared daggers at my aunt's poor confused face. My aunt, feisty woman she was, never quite got the hang of telling my mom to shut up.
"She sees you running around with that ...that boy, and she gets ideas I'm sure."
"Jared? I keep telling you we split up more ages ago."
Both women returned their gaze to my left hip, where they were examining me. Earlier, I had stretched to reach down a stack of plates and accidentally flashed my newest bit of rebellion: an awesome looking winged eye, heavily tattooed on my pale skin in dark red and black. Now, after all the shrieking had died down, my mother had me pinned in the kitchen, my jeans yanked half down as she kept staring at it, hoping to find the answer to the question, "where did I go wrong?" no doubt.
"Nevermind, the damage is done now!" she said, gesturing to the tattoo, as though it and my aunt's ex-toy-boy were intimately connected and if she ogled the thing hard enough, it might go away. In a sense, they were intimately connected. But I didn't like thinking about that. And they certainly didn't have to know.
I kept lots of secrets these days, some more happily than others.
"It's devil's markings first, then drinking and drugs, and next thing you know she'll be having you-know-what, mark my words."
I angrily disentangled myself and pulled my shirt down. "You know, you could try not talking about me as though I'm not even here," I said.
My mother gave me that furious look she had been giving me a lot these last few months. I could see her thinking, stewing up something nasty to say, but the standard "not under my roof" spiel wasn't working as well since I had moved out months ago. In just a few months, I would be a fully qualified dental technician, so she got what she wanted, in some ways.
"Reverend Peters says that people can get addicted to tattoos you know," she started again, trying a new angle. "You never get just one, you have to keep going and going until you look like a biker or something."
I went to grab my bag and put my jacket on. "Mom, Reverend Peters is 100% correct. This is my third tattoo. But don't worry, the others are very well hidden," I said, and let myself out. I closed the door quietly, and I could only hear the faint, shocked laughter of my aunt as I walked down the driveway and to my car.


Chapter Twelve


It is true. You can get addicted to tattoos. But that's not all. You can get addicted to all sorts of things. To porn or drugs. To food. To the absence of something. To feelings. To ideas. And to people.
"Close the door, it's noisy out there," he said.
I shut it, sealing us again in the dusky cave I had grown so familiar with recently. He was hunched over something, but I couldn't make out much in the dim light.
"Open the curtains at least! You're going to ruin your eyes," I said. Turns out Jared had tons of secrets, too.
He was studying part time, for one. He had mountains of books hidden all over his apartment. It was third year physics, and his maths notebooks and heavy textbooks seemed written in a cryptic language; his assignments were all submitted secretly, too, without me ever seeing him doing it. Even the good grades he received were hidden for some reason, and he studied for exams in the back of cars and snapped the books closed when anyone came to look.
And he did this now, as though I had discovered him doing something truly embarrassing. Of all the things I had let this boy do to me in the last year, and me him, I had to smile a little that he could still be bashful around me. He shone a boyish smile in my direction and squirrelled the books away.
We sat staring at one another for a while, sizing up how things would play out this evening.
His eyes dropped to quickly take in the shirt I was wearing, the tight jeans. I saw a flicker of recognition in his naughty eyes, and returned my own to him. Fine. It was settled then.
"My mama kicked me out of the house today," I said with an over-the-top pout. I dropped my backpack to the floor, looking like someone had stolen my candy. I twirled a strand of hair between my fingers.
He smiled that gorgeous sideways smile, just the same one he did when I first met him and couldn't decide if I wanted to smack him or fuck his brains out. He knitted his fingers together and sat back in his seat like a bad guy in the club scene in a movie.
"Oh? Did she now? And why's that, little girl?" he said, mocking me.
I sidled up to him a little, still pouting, deliberately avoiding his eyes.
"Oh, nothing. I've just been a little naughty."
He grinned savagely, something playful yet dangerous in the way his hands rested on his knees, as though he was coiled up and ready to bite. I sidled a little closer.
"This is a very dangerous place. You were stupid to come here." The smile was gone, and in its place came something more sinister. I loved this part. The mood dropped, clicked into a different gear. I shut my eyes and breathed in deeply and out again, just as he had taught me.
"Oh, I'm sorry mister, I'll just be going then..." I said, picking up my bag and making as to leave out the same door. He stood up quickly, pinning me in my place with steely eyes. I loved how easily he could turn from sweet boy to ...whatever this was. I didn't know. Neither did he. And so we kept doing this over and over again to understand it.
"Drop your bag," he barked, and I did.
He walked up slowly to me, menacingly, a showy swagger in his step that was seemingly put there to intimidate me. Little flutters erupted in the pit of my stomach. I said nothing; lowered my eyes. He brushed past me and softly closed the door, his hand on mine.
"You're not going anywhere."
I gulped. "But, I'm sorry to bother you, I really should just go now sir..."
He had caged me in with his arm, like the jock bully in an 80s High School series, laying claim to the innocent girl who had nothing but some books held to her chest for protection. I couldn't say anymore. He watched me carefully, amused by my panicked breathing. I was wearing dark jeans and a torn black shirt, but in this moment, it was actually a chaste uniform, a blouse in virginal white and little skirt, and he could see that, too.
He dragged his eyes down the length of my trembling body and then back up again, then extended one finger to touch my collarbone, so gently as though he'd break me by accident. He hooked a dainty gold chain in his finger and lifted it to his face to examine it. A modest gold cross dangled nervously.
"A good girl..." he said, part question, part accusation.
I turned my head to the side, squirming away from his face, from the strong smell of his cologne. His abs were no more than an inch from my body. I was wet already, even though we had played this game so, so many times before. The answer to this half question was no, I wasn't a good girl, over and over ...but we were both compelled to keep asking the question.
He let the cross fall, then with the same finger traced a line along my jaw, grazing against my lips.
"Well you won't be a good girl for very much longer..." he said and viciously grabbed a clump of my hair, forcing my head to yank sideways. Trapped like this, he set in for a greedy kiss, forcing his tongue deep into my mouth. He tasted so sweet, so wrong; I tried to shove him off me, a little giddy.
His hand went to my throat and slammed me hard against the door. My body went obediently limp, as his face scanned mine. His eyes changed briefly, becoming soft for a second, becoming that same goofy boy who was no more than a few years older than me. He looked into my eyes, giving me split second to use the magic word we had, to tell him that this was too much, that he was hurting me.
I tightened my mouth, stared defiantly at him and said nothing.
All at once he dragged me away from the door and flung me across the kitchen, and I went skidding to catch my balance on the other side of the room. He regarded me with hard eyes.
"Do you know what boys like me do to girls like you?"
I started to cry. Real, hot drops were rolling down my cheeks as I stood there, glee tainted with just a little fear, loving how easy it was to go so far with him. Something came over me in times like this. I had let go, that first night on the futon, and I had been letting go ever since. And now I was standing here, sobbing like a lost lamb, and he never skipped a beat, never wavered. He was going to play with me, and follow, no matter how dark I wanted to go.
What happened next was a blur to me; he tore my shirt off and yanked my jeans down, scratching my skin in the process. Eyes still bleary with tears, he pinned me against the kitchen counter, both hands in fistfuls of my hair. Steadying my hands on the counter, he grabbed my flesh and held me down.
I was so turned on I stopped differentiating between his body and mine, between pain and pleasure, between right and wrong. Under a shower of filthy words, he poured a long, hard stream of dominating energy into my body, and I, delirious and long gone into my own world, absorbed every thrust happily.
After he came, it took the hugest effort to pull his engorged cock from me, so hot and grasping my body was around him, so tightly had we knotted together. From behind, he wrapped his arms round my waist and nibbled my shoulder, as though to wake me and signal the end of our game. I came to, my body still ringing and faint prickles of pain still echoing on my scalp, and on the places on my upper thigh where he had clawed at me, desperate to jam even deeper into my body.
"Dirty little slut," he said.
My new tattoo eyed him dispassionately. Yes, I was a dirty little slut, and it was all because of him. I hoisted my jeans back on and gave him a long, obscene kiss. He was a delicious kisser, and always had been. I was pleasantly, utterly obliterated, and lay myself down on the futon again, stretching my arms to find his hidden stash under the mattress.
He looked uneasy.
"You're just going to go straight to ...that?" he said, standing naked in the kitchen.
I looked at him. Well, what did he want?
He shook his head and came to sit beside me. His boyish charm was back in full force on his face, no trace of the animal that was here in this kitchen just a moment ago.
"I think that was a little too far, even for me," he said eventually. His sudden change in tone felt like an insult.
"What's that supposed to mean?" He was meant to be my co-rebel, my partner in crime, not another person telling me what I should and shouldn't do.
"Nothing. Just maybe we should calm down a little with that kind of stuff?"
For all the time we had been "seeing" each other, all the stolen kisses and secret meetings, I had in the back of my mind that $641 I had tucked away in my backpack. It seemed a lifetime ago to me now; how different I was then. He had never asked for it after that first night, and I had never offered it, and we had marched on with a nasty set of assumptions brewing between us, the money being a sore point - all the wrong kinds of sore, too.
"Why? You enjoyed it," I said, more than a little hurt. "Who are you to judge me anyway?"
His face tightened. "Who am I? I don't know, Mel, who am I?"
I smiled nervously, trying to lighten the tension that was growing in the room.
"Who are you? Well you're my sexy boy toy, aren't you? You're my bad boy who's going to teach me a lesson and..." I pouted playfully and tried on the same voice I had earlier, but he drew back and tightened his face further.
"What the fuck, Mel? Can you just cut that out? I'm sick of all of that. I'm not just a piece of meat you know."
The spell was broken. My thighs were still sticky and my hair was still tousled, but he was ruining the mood, and fast. This wasn't how any of this was supposed to go. I like to have things planned out, even now, and he had stopped playing his part. He was supposed to be my handsome devil come to lure me away from righteousness, and defile me, and punish my innocence...
I drew back and looked at him, trying to think of something to say to hurt him. He was supposed to be on my side.
"You're not a piece of meat? Well, tell me honestly then, are you still seeing them?" We had fought about this last time, too. He had sworn to stop seeing his "sugar mommies" but kept at it anyway. He had kept it all secret, the gifts, the short trips. Yet he wanted to judge me? I was a fucked up girl with issues, fine, but what was he?
He looked hurt and hung his head, saying nothing.
"Oh my god ...you are still seeing them!" I said, expecting him to jump in and deny it. I stood up, face burning.
"So you'll do anything for them, as long as there's cash involved, but I can go to hell? Is that right?"
He said nothing, and I wished with all my heart he would look at me.  I threw on my shirt and left, banging the door behind me. I had planned all of this out. And this was not the way it was supposed to go.


Chapter Thirteen


The trouble with losing your virginity is that you can only do it once. The trouble with fantasies is that they're not real. And the trouble with bad boys is that they're ...well, they're bad.
I went to my dorm room that evening and secretly had to admit to myself that things just weren't right. That maybe it was me who was the bad guy in this story. That first night on the futon, Jared wasn't a real person to me, I'll admit it. He was my ticket out of my "issues", out of my stuffy ideas abut sex and my unhealthy home life and my toxic, religious upbringing. He was a catalyst, the same one that had released my aunt from of her crazy red chrysalis and now had worked on me, sparking some fierce repressed rebellion in me and letting loose a new beast entirely.
That night, the blood of something old and primal smeared on my belly like a dangerous idea, I had changed. Jared has the eerie talent of being able to reach deep into people and pull out their real desires, pull away their layers and reveal what's really underneath. He was a "toy boy", sure, but he was also something like a sexual magician, his irrepressible energy and ridiculous abs conjuring ordinary people into caricatures of themselves.
How could I deny him his talent? How could I be jealous? My aunt had move don fairly quickly and was happy now, so where was the harm? He had been taking money from wealthy, burnt out women for years, and what he gave them went far, far deeper than a quick fuck in their laundry rooms before their husbands came home. It was an unspoken understanding between us. We were an unlikely pair, I knew it, but he tolerated my warped sexuality and I tolerated his ...line of work.
Jared had fucked me so hard he seemed to have melted melt my brain - and I was left now with a strange new imprint, a permanent glitch in me that compelled me to live out the same scene again and again. I was stuck as the naughty virgin asking for it, and I couldn't get out. And he was stuck being my bad boy and I would rather he squeeze my throat than hold my hand.
Now I was a little older, and living alone where my mother would never catch me in the act, and I was running out of space to put new tattoos, and worse, running out of people who cared.
The trouble with having wild fantasies like mine is that sometimes, they come true.


Chapter Fourteen


Jared and I didn't see each other for another year at least.
In hindsight, we were both pretty immature. My aunt had moved to Costa Rica to give my mom something to stress about. Perhaps she'll get married there to some guy, who knows. We adopted Buttons, who got fat. I finished my degree, although just barely, and, my old good girl image well and truly fouled, I began to relax a little.
I thought of Jared often, how we were ridiculous opposites of each other, how all that weirdness that had happened in his dark little apartment was like the meeting of matter and antimatter, cat and dog, good girl and bad boy.
But opposites sometimes cancel each other out. We had seen to the end of that game and didn't know what more to do with each other, and so we drifted, I guess. I wondered whether wealthy, sexually frustrated women were still paying his secret way through college, or whether he still kept that same little stash under his futon, like he always did. I went to therapy for the beginnings of an eating disorder. My mother and I threw plates on the floor and I told her I was never going back to church. Mostly, life moved on.
Of course, by now, you can guess that that wasn't quite the whole story, and that him and I had unfinished business to tend to. That business resolved itself one rainy afternoon, when I bumped into him outside a supermarket. It was unmistakable -  I could recognize his body, his gait, anywhere.
"Mel? Oh my god is that really you?"
I spun round to look square into his face, still as youthful as ever, only with a quieter knowing sparkle in it instead of the naughtiness I had remembered. He was different somehow, but only a little. He still had that same audacity that comes with wearing loungewear in public, that cockiness that comes from an effortlessly buff body, that cheeky sideways grin.
Without thinking, I flung my arms around him and gave him a big, broad hug. He was surprised, even laughed a little. It felt easier, so much easier, to just touch him and be close to him than to say words, which I had none of just at that particular moment. He laughed again at me struggling to find something to say, and so I leant in and hugged him again, this time laughing too.
He had finished his degree, he told me, and had recently landed a job he had been interviewing heavily for the past few months. Things were looking up for him. He was going to move, next month, to a new city, and start a new life there. He seemed so happy.
"It was good luck that I bumped into you then!" I said, and we both went a little sad.
He had moved out of his dingy apartment, and, naturally, had long parted with that ugly black futon, the altar on which I had sacrificed all my weird sexual hang-ups. Over and over again. We chatted, and then, just like dusting the cobwebs off an old path we had cut a long time ago, I found myself all at once sitting with him at his place, which he proudly showed off. His decorating skills had certainly improved.
And he was still cute. Damn cute. I remembered the last time we saw each other, the nasty words. I had often felt pangs of guilt whenever I thought how I must have hurt him, how I judged him for letting others use him - all the while using him myself. How after everything, he wasn't that much older than me, it had just felt like it. Caught up in my own childish drama, I didn't notice his own quiet ambitions, how lonely he must have felt, how harsh my judgment must have seemed.
He opened a little carved cupboard beside him and extracted a small, familiar box, which he waggled my direction. The old stash.
"What do you say, for old time's sake?" he said, pulling out a lighter, and some papers.
I laughed. "Some things never change," I said, but the second I did, I felt sad. Lots of things had changed. In some ways, he was the cute stud I had met in my hapless aunt's kitchen so many eons ago; in other ways, I barely recognized him now. I felt childish around him. Again.
"We had some good times, didn't we?" he said, and to my surprise, my face flushed hot and I realized I was probably blushing.
"Some very good times," I said quietly.
Fearing I might burst into tears and dissolve into a blob of inconvenient emotions, I smiled and tried to lighten the mood a little.
"You were the bad boy, remember?"
"Yeah and you were the good girl," he laughed, putting scare quotes around the "good".
"God, we were both so messed up."
"Mostly you," he said.
"Shut up!"
"Seriously you were a royal pain in the ass."
"I know."
"Hey Jared I'm sorry, I'm really sorry I said all the things I did that day, I was just being an idiot, I didn't mean what I said at all, it's just that I was -"
Oh here we go. The inconvenient emotions were coming out regardless. But he was shushing me, reaching over a friendly hand to rest over mine.
"Hey, don't apologize, please. If anything, it was I. I was in a bad place. We were quite the bad influence on each other, weren't we?"
I laughed.
"And holy hell were you obsessed about me taking your virginity," he continued, and I hid my face, giggling.
"Oh God, I'm so sorry, I'm cringing to think of it all now ...can't we just chalk it up to my strict upbringing and not talk about it? You weren't an angel either you know..."
His expression changed a little and I wondered if I had hurt him again. I couldn't help asking, "Well, do you still, you know...?"
He put the box firmly on the table and fixed hard eyes on mine.
"No" he said simply, a small vein twitching in his jaw. I thought he was about to launch into an explanation, tell me that he had hit rock bottom, that he had learnt his lesson or something, found Jesus, won the lotto, met a girl, anything really. But he simply said "no" and kept looking at me, and I sensed that this was the only answer I was getting. Shame for me had only been a game. Something sexy to toy with. But I realized then, staring at his young face, how much pride there was in him, how different his demons were to mine.
I kissed him quickly, once, and something like happiness flickered in the corners of his mouth so I kissed him again, this time more deeply. His lips were as smooth and yielding as ever, and his tongue as soft and luscious as I remembered. We smiled tenderly at one another for a moment. With some hesitation I touched his arm, the little hairs there rising up to meet my fingertips.
"I'm kind of sad you're going, to be honest."
"Me too," he said.
I don't know how it happened, but his tongue was in my mouth again, and we kissed slowly and with delicate purpose, feeling out one another as though we hadn't already done it so thoroughly so long ago. We had both been worn a little by life, humbled a little, with our strange edges rubbed off, but I was thrilled to find that same boyish deliciousness in him still, that same elasticity in his movements, the way we could lap each other up, how his tongue would respond so swiftly to mine.
The same naughty thrill rushed all through my body, but this time it felt more naked, unencumbered with my ...well, "issues". Back then, I had made him manhandle me; he had thrown my young body around, squeezed my wrists, bruised my hips. I had egged him on, thinking that more was better, always more. But now, with his subtle, inquisitive tongue, it felt like we were doing something that even we were too afraid to do back then.
It seemed as though the more softly his lips touched mine, the more intensely my body pulsed and ached; the more slight the delicate caresses on my wrists and forearms, the deeper the pining in the rest of me grew. He sensed this too, it seemed, judging by the tender, almost pained expression he had as he stroked my arm, trying to discover if I, too, was the same.
Our clothes came off easily. First him, then me, then him again, then me again, until we were naked as the good lord made us, bare as Adam and Eve before the fall, only not quite so innocent. His caresses continued, flowing smoothly all over my whole body, missing nothing, lavishing warmth and attention onto each part of me. Had we done this before? Why not?
His lips and tongue now followed where his hands had traced, and my skin thrummed and prickled in response. He lay the full length of his nude body against mine, the heat of our flesh so surprising I smiled into the new kiss he was giving me. His warm dick was between us, hardening. Cradling my body in his hands, I undulated up into him, stroking the length of his shaft with my belly, kissing every part of him with every part of me. Then, with no force, and no resistance, the thick head of his cock found its way to my slit and sunk into me slowly, and easily. I exhaled loudly, this single thrust melting away all my doubt, my body melting onto him and swallowing him with something that felt like gratitude. He mumbled something into my ear, both hands cupping each of my breasts, and I curled my hips up to pull him more fully into me.
The moment was swollen, and slow. His movements were almost graceful, hips describing big, round, subdued shapes and the weight of his strong body bearing down on my thighs, pressing them open. Each movement was so precise, so exquisitely tuned into every little breath and moan, that it wasn't long before I was quivering right on the precipice of a great, towering orgasm.
To my delight, he skillfully kept me lingering there, pushing my body right to the edge and pulling back slightly, letting me relish the moment, so full and so close to splitting right open. It was quiet, fragile fucking, and at its apex, I sat twitching round his hard body, his heavy dick stirring me into a frenzy, teasing me, leading me down thick, syrupy paths of pleasure. He detected my pussy whispering round him, drew me closer to him.
"Come," he whispered.
I moaned, and he pushed once more, his fullness stretching me. Under his comforting weight, I whimpered and came, hard, crying out as deep thundering strokes moved through me. He smiled down at me, taking in every quiver of my lips, every flash on my expression. With each ripple of my pussy, I pulled him further down with me, and eventually he gave in and came tumbling after me in an orgasm that made him grunt, and press down into me with his broad, manly hips.
I clung to him with my legs and anchored against his sweaty form. We both giggled. He stroked a piece of wild hair from my face and smiled that sideways smile at me.
Ladies and gentlemen: it was my first time. I had fucked Jared millions of times before. But this time we had done something else. Something both of us had never done before. With anyone.

Chapter Fifteen

My name is Melanie, and I'm a pretty good girl.
I have just one secret.
Judging from what a crazy mess the world is, and how awful most people are, I would rate I'm not doing too badly if I only have one.
My secret is that I have fallen in love, and I don't know what to do, or how to do it.
"You don't have to make a decision yet," he was saying, his warm hand resting on my lower belly. He wanted me to move in with him, pack up everything and come run away and join him in his new life and his new job. Now was the perfect time, he said, and every time we met up again he had some new detail to add: I could help him decorate. They had this amazing park there I'd love. We could bring Buttons. It would be great.
"But just think about it?"
I hemmed and hawed, and played at thinking about it, but honestly my mind was already well made up. He sat up quickly and gave me a more serious look.
"Mel, I'm going to show you something now, and it's a secret, and you'd better promise not to tease me about it."
I looked at him with new interest.
"A secret? I'm sure I know all your naughty secrets..." I said with a cheeky smile.
"No, I'm serious though. Promise you won't judge me?"
"Well just how bad is it?"
"It's ...it's kind of bad ...just promise you won't be mean if I show you?"
I was curious now. I sat up as well. What dirty secrets didn't I know about? Didn't we know everything about each other by this point? Was he more of a "bad boy" than I had thought?
"Yes ok, show me."
He pulled out his iPad and started to swipe. Glossy images whizzed by on the screen. I peered over, intrigued. He took a deep breath and then turned the screen around to face me. A Pinterest board. With dozens of colorful pins of home décor. Pages and pages and pages of tasteful shabby chic quilts, Scandinavian style furniture, light fittings, Japanese crockery.
"What's ...what's this?" I asked.
"It's my Pinterest account. This is my 'Home' board. Come and live with me. Come and live with me and we'll make a house that looks like just this."
I burst out laughing.
"That's very, very bad of you!" I giggled, swiping through the pages, barely believing my eyes.
"Well, will you come?" he said again, boyish puppy eyes staring at me.
It was naughty, I know, but something made me rest my hand over his, and trace his fingers downwards, where I was still slick.
"Sure, but you'll have to convince me first," I said and, you know, we both still knew how to play that game.

- THE END -
















MIND GAMES TRILOGY



















Book 1 - Mindfuck


























Book 2 - Mind Games


























Book 3 - Mindgasm


























BAD BOYS AFTER DARK - The Complete Boxed Set





Are you ready for over half a MILLION words of panty-melting bad boys?








With over half a million words of steamy, romantic fiction, and over 1000 five-star reviews across Amazon and Goodreads, this limited edition omnibus will provide over 100 hours of reading!
With this boxed set comes, quite literally, two years of my writing, delivered straight to your reading device for your personal satisfaction only.

What are readers saying?



- "Gabi Moore is an auto read for me. You will need a few things; clean panties, a hot man/vibrator, and blocks of uninterrupted time."




- "A sinfully seductive, sensual, and highly delicious treat. Dark, like your favorite chocolate, slightly sweet, and just as decadent..."




- "The only thing I can think of that's better than curling up with one of Gabi's books is curling up with a bundle of them. There's not a single book in this set that I wouldn't recommend. They're all deliciously dark, steamy, and absolutely riveting. The emotions that these bad boys and their loves stir up stick with a reader long after the last page has been turned."



Bad Boys After Dark - The Complete Boxed Set

* * *















Gabi's Naughty Newsletter





Do you want to be the first to know about my new releases, early sneak peaks, free book offers, sales, cover reveals, exclusive giveaways, and more?

Join my Naughty Newsletter HERE!

Did I mention you get a freebie when signing up?

























