



















Motivated Resumes & LinkedIn Profiles
© 2017 Brian E. Howard. All rights reserved.
No part of this book may be reproduced in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, digital, photocopying, or recording, except for the inclusion in a review, without permission in writing from the publisher.
The external links are being provided as a convenience and for informational purposes only; they do not constitute an endorsement or an approval by WriteLife Publishing and the author of any of the products, services or opinions of the corporation or organization or individual. WriteLife Publishing bears no responsibility for the accuracy, legality or content of the external site or for that of subsequent links. Contact the external site for answers to questions regarding its content.
The information and recommendations in this book are presented in good faith and for informational purposes only. Every effort has been made to ensure the materials presented are accurate and current. All information is supplied on the condition that the reader or any other person receiving this information will perform their own due diligence and make their own determination as to its suitability for any purpose prior to the use of this information. The purpose of this material is to educate. The author, Brian E. Howard, and/or any affiliated companies, shall have neither liability nor responsibility to any person or entity with respect to loss or damage caused, or alleged to have been caused, directly or indirectly, by the information contained in this book.
Published in the United States by WriteLife Publishing
(An imprint of Boutique of Quality Books Publishing Company)
www.writelife.com
Printed in the United States of America
978-1-60808-183-7 (p)
978-1-60808-184-4 (e)
Library of Congress Control Number: 2017942563
Book design by Robin Krauss, www.bookformatters.com
Cover design by Ellis Dixon, ellisdixon.com
Editor: Michelle Booth
LinkedIn, the LinkedIn logo, the IN logo and InMail are registered trademarks of LinkedIn Corporation and its affiliates in the United States and/or other countries. Screenshots contained in this book are used for informational and educational purposes.







Other Books by Brian E. Howard
The Motivated Job Search
The Motivated Networker
Over 50 and Motivated!
The Motivated Job Search Workbook







In Appreciation
I would like to express my appreciation to Natalie Keylon for putting this project in motion. Without her initiative and project management skills, this book would likely still be on the drawing board rather than a reality.
I would also like to express my gratitude to each resume writer who donated their work, time, and insight to the creation of this book. The advice and samples you provided will inspire a lot of job seekers and touch their careers and lives for years to come. You have my deepest appreciation.







Message From the Author
Over the course of my career as an executive recruiter I have viewed thousands of resumes. The majority are terrible! They have a poor appearance, are badly formatted, or the content is utterly unpersuasive (the resume "tells" rather than "sells"). A bad resume reflects poorly upon the job seeker and hurts their chances in landing a job. An impactful resume is imperative to a successful job search!
The same can also be said for many LinkedIn profiles. Most are not complete, optimized (so that you can be discoverable by a LinkedIn word search), or compelling. A poor LinkedIn profile also hurts job seekers' chances of being discovered for career opportunities. It can also leave a less-than-favorable first impression when viewed by a HR recruiter or hiring executive.
This book was written for all career-minded professionals who want to improve the effectiveness of their job search by creating an impactful resume, LinkedIn profile, and other job-search communication and marketing materials. This book contains numerous samples written from some of the most experienced, credentialed, and award-winning resume writers in the industry. Each resume writer was profiled for experience, credentials, and quality of work. They have graciously donated their work for your benefit.
To make this book as instructive and informative for you as possible, each resume writer who participated in this project was provided a questionnaire about a host of resume writing, LinkedIn, and cover letter topics. Their responses formed the basis for "What the Pros Say." Their insight is invaluable.
Many of the resume writers provided detailed responses that were too lengthy for inclusion in the instructional part of this book. However, they are rich with insight and tips! Check out the Appendix, More of What the Pros Say, at the end of the book for additional information.
Brian E. Howard







Table of Contents
Part I: Some Things to Know about Your Job Search
Branding
Understanding the Employer's Mindset
Knowing What an Employer Wants in an Open Position
Matching Experience and "Word Clouds"
Transferable Job Skills and Professional Qualities
The Sum Total
Part II: Impactful Resumes
Do Job Seekers Still Need a Resume AND a LinkedIn Profile?
What Is a Resume?
Time Is of the Essence
Your Resume Is Your Marketing Brochure
Use of Keywords
Resume Formats
The Dateless (Ageless) Resume
Parts of a Resume
Accomplishments
Other Credentials
Use of Recommendations on a Resume
Information NOT to be Included on a Resume
Testing the Impact of Your Resume
QR Codes
Dealing with Employment Gaps on a Resume
Infographic Resumes
Part III: LinkedIn
Use of Keywords
Your LinkedIn Profile - Sections
Introducing LinkedIn Optimization
How Does It Work . . . How Does a HR Recruiter Use LinkedIn to Find Candidates?
The Goal of Optimization
Keyword Location
Keyword Stuffing
Completeness
Connections
Compelling
Put It to the Test
Strategies for Your LinkedIn Profile When You Are Unemployed
Which Strategy Would Be Best for You?
The Open Candidates Feature on LinkedIn
Measuring the Effectiveness of Your LinkedIn Profile
What Do You Do with Your LinkedIn Profile after You Get a New Job?
Keep Your Profile Current
Sample of an Optimized LinkedIn Profile
Part IV: Cover Letters and Other Written Communications
Types of Cover Letters
The Cover Letter Success Formula
Cover Letters and Career Transition Job Seekers
Cover Letters and Recruiters
Marketing Emails - Proactively Marketing Your Professional Credentials
Thank-You Letters
Thank-You Letters When You Are Not Selected for the Job
Some Final Words about Written Communications
Part V: Business Cards
Traditional Business Cards
Networking Business Cards
Resume Business Cards
Infographic Business Cards
Part VI: Sample Resumes and Other Great Resources
Appendix: More of "What the Pros Say"







Part I
Some Things to Know about Your Job Search
There isn't a ruler, a yard stick or a measuring tape in the entire world long enough to compute the strength and capabilities inside you.
— Paul Meyer1
As you begin to think about your resume, LinkedIn profile, cover letters, and other job-search marketing materials, it is important to have a solid grasp of some fundamental elements of your job search and how they will affect the writing and creation of these important materials. This part of the book will help you understand and leverage the power of branding, understanding the employer's mindset, transferable skills, and professional qualities. Understanding these concepts and weaving them into your resume, a LinkedIn profile, and your other job-search marketing materials will increase their persuasiveness and lead to more interviews and job offers. Let's start with branding.
Branding
Always remember: a brand is the most valuable piece of real estate in the world; a corner of someone's mind.
— John Hegarty2
For a job search, your brand is a statement of who you are as a professional. It identifies you and works to differentiate you from other job seekers. It is imperative that you craft a professional brand for use on your resume and LinkedIn profile. A professional brand announces your distinct talents and what you represent to the marketplace. In essence, what do you want to be known for or found for (especially on LinkedIn)?
The process of branding is discovering who you are, what you are, what your unique abilities are, and communicating them through your resume, LinkedIn profile, and other job search marketing materials.
There are numerous benefits of creating an impactful brand, including:
1. You will differentiate yourself from other job seekers, and gain a huge advantage.
2. You create the initial impression the employer has of you.
3. You can convey your value to the employer more quickly.
4. You can match your skills and value proposition to the employer's needs more easily.
5. You can better determine which opportunities to pursue.3
The drawback of not having a professional brand is simple: You become a commodity. There is no perceived differentiation from other job seekers. You cannot command a premium and you have reduced leverage when it comes to compensation. Perhaps worse, employers will determine for themselves what they want to see in you. They will cast you in a light based on their own conclusions, which may not be the message you want to communicate.4 This situation can be hazardous during a job search. Having a succinct brand immediately directs the hiring executive's thinking toward what you can do for them.
Perhaps the biggest benefit of creating a professional brand is the self-awareness of your unique skills and experience, and recognition of how they work together to create an impact. You will project the value of your abilities more clearly, resulting in a job that's a good match for your skill set. Branding can also help you set your sights on what you want your future career to be.
Additionally, when your networking contacts know your brand, they are much more likely to advance it for you through referrals, recommendations, and so on. When the right opportunities come along, you become top of mind (because of your brand).
The professional branding process requires introspection and thoughtful reflection. In some cases, thinking through your branding can be both an emotional and a professionally enlightening event.
Think of it this way: Your goal is to connect with employers both intellectually (you can do the job) and emotionally (you're a good fit). Having a well-crafted, professional brand helps on both levels. You must be perceived as the right candidate; and through branding, you are better able to align yourself to an open job position.
Keep in mind that the effectiveness of your brand is determined by the connection that exists between what the brand claims and what it can actually deliver. In other words, you must be able to prove and quantify your professional brand (through experience and accomplishments). Failing to do so will have disastrous results. Don't oversell your brand and capabilities.
Create a succinct brand. Think of it, in analogous terms, as a tagline or a theme that will be the foundation of your job search.
To help determine your brand, ask yourself some questions:
1. What am I good at or an expert in?
2. What have I been recognized for?
3. What is my reputation with others (subordinates, peers, senior management)?
4. What have been my strong points in past job reviews, including notable and consistent comments (if applicable)?
5. What differentiates me from others with the same job?
6. What professional qualities do I have that make me good at my job?
7. What are the professional achievements I am most proud of?5
The answers to these questions and the thoughts they provoke are essential to forming your brand. Now, synthesize the answers and thoughts into single words or short phrases that capture the concept of your responses. A convenient formula that seems to work for many job seekers is this:
[Job function or title] + [A bridge phrase, e.g., "with experience in," or "specializing in." Or, use of an action verb e.g., "applying," "focusing," etc.] + [reference to products, services, skills, industry, professional qualities, etc.]
For example:

Sales
Award-winning Sales Executive with Experience in Workers' Compensation, Pain Management, Consistently Exceeding Sales Goals.
Operations Management
Operations executive dedicated to improving operational efficiency through effective leadership.
Account Management
Client-focused account manager focused on client satisfaction and retention.
ERISA6 Lawyer
Experienced Attorney Protecting ERISA fiduciaries from the Department of Labor.
A branding statement could also be a few separate descriptive words or phrases:
Process Improvement • Lean Six Sigma7 • Turnaround Specialist
Marketing • Advertising • Public Relations

Your branding statement or branding keywords must appear with prominence on your resume, LinkedIn profile, and other job search marketing materials. It announces to the market what you want to be known for or found for.

What the Pros Say:
In your opinion, is it important to have a brand (either a branding statement or branding words) on a resume?
I think it's essential to have a branding statement. To me, it's your personal selling proposition. It is what will capture the attention of the hiring manager or recruiter in those six to ten seconds they read your resume. Every person is unique, and in order to stand out from others with similar qualifications, you must have your personal brand embedded in the document.
Michelle Robin, NCRW, CPRW
A strong, brief branding statement is crucial for an effective resume: it highlights the job seeker's unique value proposition, and gives the reader an immediate understanding of who the candidate is and what he/she can accomplish.
Nelly Grinfeld, MBA, NCRW, CEIC

Understanding the Employer's Mindset
There are a variety of motivations that prompt an employer in the commercial market to hire. However, the true essence underlying each motivation comes down to two reasons: to make or save the company money.8
Your career experience tells you that the sole reason a job exists in a company is to contribute to the profitability of the company.9 The level of your performance in your job must add value. Depending upon the job, you can help an employer's bottom line by:
1. Making the company money (generating new revenue)—This can be achieved through sales, client retention, product development, and so on. You make money for the company by generating new revenue and keeping the revenue the company has.
2. Saving the company money (productivity improvements)—This is achieved by increasing productivity, increasing or creating operational efficiency, saving time, making others' jobs easier (more efficient or effective), and so on.
Having these concepts in mind when you write a resume, create a LinkedIn profile, and a cover letter (all of your marketing materials) is very important. When your marketing materials speak to these motivations, you will be getting and holding the hiring executive's attention.
There are many ways to generate revenue or save money for a company. Revealing them to an employer establishes or increases your value (ROI—Return on Investment) for hiring you. Here is a short list to get you thinking:
• Your duties and responsibilities from previous positions and how they translate to this position's ROI.
• Implement an improvement that saves time, improves efficiency, and/or streamlines workflow.
• Improve company image and branding.
• Open new sales-distribution channels.
• Improve a current product, or develop a new one.
• Expand business/sales through existing accounts.
• Enhance competitiveness through best practices, innovation, and so on.
• Improve client retention.
• Improve company culture, morale, and/or employee retention.
Whatever value you bring to the table will be directly related to your professional brand, skillset, and value proposition. These must be apparent in all of your job search marketing materials.

What the Pros Say:
What do you have your client think about to give you information to formulate the brand?
Their history of impacts, the things they do differently than their peers, the things they have been applauded for or complimented on. Their influence on sales, profits, efficiency, productivity, and cost-cutting. Their unique experiences, credentials, and pedigree elements.
Cheryl Lynch Simpson, CMRW, ACRW, COPNS

Knowing What an Employer Wants in an Open Position
Since an employer's purpose when hiring is to make or save money, how can you get inside an employer's mind and determine what he or she is looking for in the position (or position types) you want? The answer is simple, but you'll need to do a little research, as follows:
1. Gather Job Postings. Go online and collect some well-written job postings for a job you are qualified for and would enjoy. Websites such as http://www.indeed.com and http://www.simplyhired.com are rich resources.
2. Create Your Own Master Job Description. Call the document your "Master Job Description" (or anything else creative you want, i.e., "My Dream Job"). The purpose of your Master Job Description is to give you a road map inside the thinking of employers so you can better determine what they are looking for in filling a position (or position types).
a. Title. What words do employers use? These titles will likely reflect jobs you target when you search. The key is to use these same words—or very similar—on your resume, business cards, LinkedIn profile, cover letters, in your elevator speech, and so on.
b. Skills, Duties, and Responsibilities. Examine the job postings for skills, duties, and responsibilities that are common or frequently mentioned and note how often they are used.
c. Match. Tie these skills to your experience. The more you use the keywords from the skills and titles in your written and verbal communications (including your resume), the higher your chances are of getting noticed because you make yourself directly relevant to an open job position.10
Once it's done, familiarize yourself with your Master Job Description. Think about it. What would you look for to fill this position if you were the hiring executive? Think both technical skills and transferable and "soft" skills (more on that in a moment). Congratulations—you are thinking like an employer!
With the understanding of how an employer thinks about an opening, relate or match how you have generated or saved money with former employers, while keeping your Master Job Description in mind. This is a crucial step, because you'll be tying an executive's hiring needs to your own experience and accomplishments. As you go along, refer to these insights you've discovered as you create your resume, LinkedIn profile, cover letters, emails, and so on.
Matching Experience and "Word Clouds"
There is a very clever way to match your experience with what an employer is looking for in a position(s). "Word clouds" are images made out of large words interspersed with smaller ones (you may have seen them). Some websites that can create them include www.wordle.net, www.tagcrowd.com, and www.worditout.com. Here's how you use this concept to your advantage:
Take the cursor on your computer and copy the job description electronically, go on one of these sites, and put the copied description into the space provided. Give it a second and "Voila," you have a word cloud. Pay particular attention to the larger words. Those are the words that are mentioned most frequently or the programming has selected as more important. List those words and make sure they appear in your resume, LinkedIn profile, and other communications. For example, let's say you see terms like "customer experience," or "client success" in the word cloud. You read the full description and conclude that these terms mean account management (to you). Therefore, you need to change your terminology on your resume perhaps to match the language employers are using (at least for that employer).
This technique works especially well when you have an actual job description for a position you are pursuing so you can alter your resume to use the terminology of the employer.
Transferable Job Skills and Professional Qualities
Start by doing what's necessary, then what's possible, and suddenly you are doing the impossible.
— St. Francis of Assisi11
Transferable job skills come in two forms. First are the technical skills (expertise or ability) of your profession. If you are an engineer, you know engineering concepts. An accountant has skills related to accounting, and so on. These are your "hard" skills.
Hard skills can be transferable by convincing an employer that your skills can be easily repurposed and still be valuable to the employer. An oversimplified example is an accountant using math skills in a new role.
The second type of transferable job skills used in most professional level positions is "soft" skills. They are in addition to your technical expertise.
Here is a list of some sought-after, soft transferable job skills (not listed in any order of preference):
• Communication Skills (writing, listening, and speaking)—This is the most frequently mentioned skill employers desire.12
• Analytical Ability (problem solving)—This is your ability to view a situation, identify issues, evaluate relevant information, and implement a plan.
• Time Management (prioritizing)—This is your ability to prioritize and devote the appropriate amount of time to a task.
• Innovation (out-of-the-box thinking)—This involves harnessing creativity, reasoning skill, and what you've learned in life to solve problems.
• Collaboration (teamwork)—This means working with others toward a shared goal.13
• Management (people leadership)—This is your ability to gain buy-in or respect from a team, lead by defining goals and methods, and manage and guide a group toward shared goals or production targets.
• Customer Focus (customer service)—This is your understanding that your employer must please and serve customers to be successful.
• Business Understanding (business acumen)—This is your ability to understand the business realities and the influences in the market and how they affect your employer.14
Since these skills are important and sought-after by employers, it is advantageous to mention transferable skills that apply to you on your resume and LinkedIn profile.

What the Pros Say:
What is your resume-writing philosophy about listing or mentioning transferable skills (e.g., communication skills, time management, etc.) on a resume?
I always have a Skills (transferable skills) section listed right after the summary statement. Ideally, the skills should match the skills required for the job being applied for.
Bob Janitz, NCRW

Closely aligned with the concept of transferable job skills are Professional Qualities. These can be viewed as your professional character traits. Here is a non-exclusive list of professional qualities (character traits) sought after by employers:
• Honesty—This is the foundation of every employment relationship. An employer must be able to trust you and respect you as a professional for the employment relationship to last and flourish.15
• Positive Attitude—Make no mistake—this is a big deal. Employers gravitate to people who show enthusiasm, energy, and a positive outlook.16 Displaying a positive attitude will give you a competitive advantage in interviews and is a career management strategy. A positive attitude is that important.
• Interpersonal Relationships—Employers want employees who can get along with other coworkers. They avoid those who "rock the boat" and do not fit the culture.
• Work Ethic—Employers seek employees who put forth their best effort at all times. They seek employees who are motivated and internally driven. They want employees who are persistent and passionate about their jobs.17
• Dependable—Employers seek employees who will show up on time. They want to rest assured you will "be there" for the company. If you are a remote employee, they want to know you are working even though you are out of sight.
• Willingness to Learn—This is your intellectual flexibility, curiosity, and your ability not to get stuck in your own way of thinking. As you well know, markets change. Business changes. Your industry changes. You must be open and pursue opportunities to learn and change.18
• Other transferable skills and professional qualities include: Accountability, accuracy, ambition, assertiveness, autonomy, competitive, consensus building, decision making, enthusiasm, goal oriented, initiative, motivation, organized, presentation skills, quality management/improvement, tactful, working under pressure, among many others.
Just like transferable skills, mentioning professional qualities on your resume, LinkedIn profile, and other communications can be persuasive to a hiring executive. They can differentiate you from other job seekers that fail to include them.

What the Pros Say:
Can you, as a resume writer, create a level of differentiation by mentioning professional qualities on a resume (e.g., work ethic, honesty, etc.)?
Yes. These sorts of details are core to a person's brand—so if it is central to the client's sense of self, then I include, but also ground them with some details if possible to help the reader differentiate this candidate from a sea of others.
Virginia Franco, NCRW, CPRW
My style is usually to include three professional traits at the outset of a resume (methodical, tenacious, and pragmatic being a few of my favorites). This allows me to personalize the resume with traits that the client accurately possesses.
Wendi Weiner, JD, NCRW, CPRW, CCTC, CCM

Some job seekers have difficulty identifying transferable skills and professional qualities because they have not had to think about them for a long time. They've been doing their jobs not thinking of the skills they've been using to succeed. That's normal. There are a couple of ideas that can help expand upon your transferable skills (and perhaps your professional qualities). Think about your last position or two. What skills did you use? Now, think how you can break down those skills into smaller elements. For example, let's say you were in sales. What does that skill really entail? What's really going on there? Plenty!
Research on target industries
Cold calling
Persuasive verbal skills
Presentation skills
Closing
Follow-up
Identifying decision makers
Email marketing
Articulation of value proposition
Overcoming objections
Negotiating
And so much more . . .
By identifying these skills you can open yourself to other opportunities and employers who are searching for job seekers with these skills.
Once you have identified your transferable job skills and professional qualities, there are several things you can do with this valuable information:
• Weave them into your resume and LinkedIn profile.
• Make them a component of your branding message.
• Use them in cover letters and emails.
• Use them to write success stories.
• Use them as a part of your elevator speech.
• Use them in networking conversations.
• Use them in interviews.
The key to using these skills on the resume, LinkedIn profile and other written communications is to convey those skills and your unique professional qualities as valuable and match them to solving an employer's need. For the most impact, use your accomplishments as evidence of your transferable skills and professional qualities. Provide success stories of the skills and qualities in action. Making this connection is crucial when you are changing career paths.
Transferable skills and professional qualities cut across industry lines. For example, an employer will always value an employee with a strong work ethic whether they are an accountant or a zookeeper.
The Sum Total
Here is the magic formula for becoming a sought-after job seeker:
Your Technical Skills (your ability)
+ Your Transferrable Job Skills/Professional Qualities
+ Your Track Record of Success
= A Qualified Candidate!
Predominately, it is your resume and LinkedIn profile that are the marketing tools used to educate an employer that you are a Qualified Candidate. Once you are a Qualified Candidate, you must then differentiate yourself from other qualified candidates.

1 "Unleashing Your Genius," Quotes from the Masters, http://finsecurity.com/finsecurity/quotes/qm121.html (accessed February 4, 2017).
2 "10 Ways You're Building a Fantastic Brand," Design Aglow (blog), February 3, 2015, http://designaglow.com/blogs/design-aglow/16728432-10-ways-youre-building-a-fantastic-brand (accessed May 28, 2015).
3 Whitcomb, Job Search Magic, p. 122.
4 Ibid.
5 Ibid., Chapter 5, "Communicate Your Value Via a Career Brand."
6 Employee Retirement Income Security Act; see "Frequently Asked Questions About Retirement Plans and ERISA," US Department of Labor, http://www.dol.gov/ebsa/faqs/faq_consumer_pension.html (accessed July 8, 2015).
7 A process that resolves problems while reducing costs; see "What is Lean Six Sigma?" Go Lean Six Sigma, https://goleansixsigma.com/what-is-lean-six-sigma/ (accessed July 8, 2015).
8 Whitcomb, Job Search Magic, p. 274.
9 See also, Yate, Knock 'em Dead, p. 17.
10 Ibid., p. 32.
11 "Doing What's Necessary, What's Possible, and What Seems to be Impossible," The Recovery Ranch, http://www.recoveryranch.com/articles/necessary-possible-impossible/ (accessed May 27, 2015).
12 Hansen, Randall S., PhD, and Katharine Hansen, PhD. "What Do Employers Really Want? Top Skills and Values Employers Seek from Job-Seekers," Quintessential Careers, http://www.quintcareers.com/job_skills_values.html (accessed May 27, 2015).
13 Ibid.
14 Grant Tilus, "Top 10 Human Resources Job Skills Employers Want to See," (blog), Rasmussen College, July 29, 2013, http://www.rasmussen.edu/degrees/business/blog/human-resources-job-skills-employers-want-to-see/ (accessed July 10, 2015).
15 Hansen and Hansen, "What Do Employers Really Want?"
16 Victoria Andrew, "The Power of a Positive Attitude," (blog), Kavaliro Employment Agency, May 23, 2013, http://www.kavaliro.com/the-power-of-a-positive-attitude (accessed June 8, 2015).
17 Hansen and Hansen, "What Do Employers Really Want?"
18 Ibid.







Part II
Impactful Resumes
Great works are performed, not by strength, but by perseverance.
—Prince Imlac, character from Samuel Johnson's Rasselas19
During a job search, having an impactful resume is imperative. It sells your abilities, accomplishments, professional abilities, and establishes the match between you and the open position. Properly written and creatively presented, it will differentiate you from other job seekers and create a positive mental impression of you in the mind of the HR recruiter or hiring executive.
Do Job Seekers Need a Resume AND a LinkedIn Profile?
With the worldwide acceptance of LinkedIn, many job seekers ask whether there is still a need for a traditional resume. Has the LinkedIn profile replaced it? The simple answer is no. You must still have a well-written resume in your job-search arsenal. A LinkedIn profile does not replace your need for a resume.
Some writers have pushed the notion that a LinkedIn profile has made the traditional resume obsolete.20 Nothing could be further from the truth. Understand that each serves separate and distinct roles in a job search.
Purpose of a LinkedIn Profile. Discoverability and Confirmation of Information. Your LinkedIn profile is your ever-present online resume. It is your digital presence and footprint. When complete, optimized, and compelling, its function is to get you noticed and discovered by a hiring executive or recruiter. It also functions to confirm and supplement information about your professional background. However, it has limitations. A LinkedIn profile is a one-size-fits-all template. Although the content differs from person to person, the format remains the same. LinkedIn has features that allow for customization such as attaching media, links, Slideshare presentations, and so on. This can heighten the interest of a hiring executive or HR recruiter, if they should take the time to look at them. This is all good. But, the purpose is to get you noticed and create interest; the resume has a different function.
The Tactical Uses of a Resume. A resume is a completely customizable document. It can, and should be, tailored to specific positions and for particular companies. It allows you to present yourself in a creative way apart from the format limitations of a LinkedIn profile. You can create your resume to showcase your achievements, skills, knowledge, and competencies that appeals to one hiring executive offering one position. When done properly, a customized resume can be used more easily by the hiring executive as a guide for the interview. This is a tactical advantage. Your customized resume plays to your strengths because you designed the format and strategically placed the information to differentiate you from other job seekers. You should feel comfortable about how it represents you.
Resumes Still Required. Most employers, either by direct request of the hiring executive or through the HR department, still require job seekers to submit resumes, via online applications or by email, as a required and accepted business practice. If resumes are passé, why are they still a requirement in the application and interview process? The truth is they are not passé. This is not to say that there could be pockets in some industries that are moving away from using resumes. However, for the majority of industries, and for most positions within those industries, the need for a well-written resume lives on.

What the Pros Say:
Do you still need a resume if you have a LinkedIn profile?
The resume is not dead and never will be. When LinkedIn first became relevant in the job market, employers would receive a resume and then seek to verify and clarify details by going to LinkedIn as part of the vetting process. Things have shifted somewhat. This still happens, but more frequently now we find the employer seeking out candidates using LinkedIn first. So, the employer's first introduction to the candidate is their LinkedIn profile. If they like what they see they will contact the candidate and ask to see a resume before inviting them for an interview. The order has changed, but both are still highly essential.
Michelle Dumas, NCRW, CPRW
Yes, because the two documents serve different purposes. A LinkedIn profile is a quick overview of your candidacy but doesn't convey all that you bring to the table. Hence a resume can do a better job of showcasing your career brand and achievements. In addition, there are many details in a resume such as numbers, client names, and the like, which shouldn't be made public on LinkedIn.
Cheryl Lynch Simpson, CMRW, ACRW, COPNS

What Is a Resume?
Let's start by defining what a resume is and is not. A resume is a unique form of written communication designed to quickly gain the attention of the hiring executive, inform them about you, sell you as a qualified candidate, and differentiate you from other job seekers. You have complete control of the appearance and content, and you should feel comfortable about how it represents you.
You are not writing an autobiography! Many job seekers put too much historical information into a resume. It's easy to do. You start writing and remembering and all of a sudden you have a resume that is a blizzard of words. Hiring executives simply will not read resumes like that. It's too much work. A resume must be informative, but it is really a marketing piece. It must be easy on the eyes and have adequate white space. The job market can be tough enough; don't create a self-inflicted obstacle by having a poorly formatted and poorly written resume.
Occasionally, job seekers will use personal pronouns ("I", "we") in their resumes. Don't do this. Although there are some differences of opinion by commentators, it is the prevailing view that a resume should not contain personal pronouns. Who else would you be talking about if not yourself?21
When you write your resume, the rules of proper sentence structure and punctuation are relaxed. However, it is essential that you convey complete thoughts with good use of action verbs.

What the Pros Say:
As a resume writer, what is your definition of a resume?
A resume is a sales pitch, a marketing document, part of a strategic multimedia communication plan, and a brand messaging piece rolled into one that defines a person's unique brand distinguishing it from competitors' through a strategic combination of visual (format, color and word placement), verbal (keywords and power phrases) and emotional attributes (qualitative soft skills and quantitative successes).
Cheryl Minnick, M.Ed., Ed.D, CCMC, NCRW
A resume is a marketing document that is targeted toward a specific audience and presents enough features and benefits to tell the reader that the candidate is a solution to a hiring problem. It is not an obituary of one's career!
Norine Dagliano, BA, NCRW, CFRW/CC

Time Is of the Essence
Most hiring executives generally spend between five and twenty seconds when first looking at a resume. So assume yours will not have much time to make an impression. If you're perceived as valuable to the company, you're in! If not, you're out! An employer must be able to quickly determine your potential value.
How can you make the most of those precious seconds? Showcase your most impactful qualifications and accomplishments on the upper half of the first page of your resume. The title of your resume, branding words/phrases/statement, the first sentence of your summary, and the first bullet point or two of your first showcase section create the biggest impact. By then, time's up! (More on showcase sections in a moment.) If these grab the interest of the employer, you get the next few seconds and perhaps more. This is another reason to use the word cloud technique—keywords and phrases will appear on your resume and "speak" to the hiring executive. Use this technique to capture any buzzwords that employer uses. Titling, branding, and a showcase resume have become important and popular for their ability to keep your resume in the executive's hands even longer. Once you have created initial interest, then the hiring executive will generally look at your current/previous employer, your position/function, length of employment, and successes.

What the Pros Say:
Studies have repeatedly shown that employers spend between five to twenty seconds when first looking at a resume. As a resume writer, how do you create a resume to capitalize on such a brief period of time?
First, it needs to be visually appealing and easy to read: plenty of white space, font size not too small or too large, font enhancements (bold, caps, color etc.). More to the point, the resume should immediately answer the following questions on every employer's mind: Who are you? What do you do? What can you do for me?
This is accomplished by formatting the client's name as the predominate bit of information on the resume, following this with a headline that identifies the client's occupation/occupational focus, and then a branding statement that states what problems the client is best at solving.
Norine Dagliano, BA, NCRW, CFRW/CC
Putting the most compelling elements that substantiate a person's qualifications for the targeted job in the top one-third of the resume will help to pass that initial five- to twenty-second first review. Using a headline, short bullets, list of keywords or brief paragraphs will help to keep the eye moving along this section and, because of that content, persuade the reader to read the entire document with the ultimate goal of having the job seeker called for an interview.
Beate Hait, CPRW, NCRW

Your Resume Is Your Marketing Brochure
Your resume is frequently the first formal presentation of your professional credentials to a hiring executive. Think of it as your marketing brochure. It must have an impressive appearance (easy on the eyes), be well formatted (layout of how and where information is presented), and have persuasive content. Take the time to write a resume that appears professional. In order for your resume to provide that positive first impression, make sure that it:
• Has a clean, professional appearance. Develop a document with plain, simple language. Also be sure that the use of font size, bold print, lines, headings, spacing, bullet points, and so on, is consistent throughout. Any graphics and shading must be readable. Your resume must have a "wow" factor.
• Has a title. This will announce the professional qualifications to follow in the body of the resume.
• Has branding words or a branding statement. Either of these will help present your value proposition.
• Contains accurate contact information. Be sure your contact information is up to date.
• Features a concise, professional summary. This should highlight your background and give information to support your professional value proposition.
• Lists core competencies or qualifications. Showcase your strongest skills, abilities, experience, education, and special knowledge.
• Lists achievements. State what separates you from the pack.
• Is written for easy reading. Keep paragraphs short and use subheadings to break apart information.
• Could include charts, graphs, and pictures. To create distinction and visual appeal, use charts and graphs to show your accomplishments. Pictures that align with your industry, if well used, can be unique and draw the attention of the reader. As the saying goes, "a picture is worth a thousand words."
• Honestly represents your background. It is estimated that "more than 80 percent of resumes contain some stretch of the truth."22 Be honest with your background and achievements. If an embellishment is discovered, you lose your integrity and credibility, and they will be extremely difficult to regain. Your employer won't trust you. And if others find out you embellished, that will make it harder still on your reputation.
It is perfectly acceptable, and encouraged, to write a generic form of your resume. You can modify it for specific opportunities that you pursue. Just remember what form of your resume you use with specific employers!

What the Pros Say:
Should a resume be written or revised for each position a job seeker pursues?
If a job seeker hopes to have a fighting chance—100 percent YES! Employers are looking for experts (specialists) and NOT generalists. The more you can make small customizations to your resume to show that you're the best fit for the company, company culture, the industry, and the position the higher your resume response rate will be from potential employers.
Jessica Hernandez, Certified Social Branding Analyst
Yes, as a gift should be carefully selected, thoughtfully assembled and individually wrapped for each person on your Christmas list. One size does NOT fit all in a world of diversified talent, compartmentalized jobs and ATS [Applicant Tracking Systems].
Cheryl Minnick, M.Ed., Ed.D, CCMC, NCRW

Use of Keywords
Keywords are specific words or phrases that reflect your experiences and abilities, and are frequently buzzwords, or terms-of-art. You are undoubtedly familiar with the keywords of your industry and your abilities. Make sure they appear prominently on your resume. Examples include "P & L" and "ROI" for commerce. Others include "pull-through strategies" for sales and marketing, or are specific to a particular industry (like a professional designation). Your resume must contain certain keywords to get the employer's attention and communicate that you are qualified for a particular position. The importance of keywords on your resume cannot be overstated.
Keywords can include the following:
• Position title
• Industries
• Professional designation
• Skills, knowledge, core competencies
• Industry terms-of-art (and abbreviations)
• Employer names (past or present)
• Licenses, certifications
• Location (city, state)
• Software and technologies you're familiar with
• Education (school names and degrees)
It can be impactful to connect a keyword to an accomplishment, whenever possible. For example, Client Retention—maintained a client retention rate of 94 percent for the last four years.
When pursuing a particular opening, use the word cloud technique to capture buzzwords used by that employer.

What the Pros Say:
The use of keywords is important on a resume. What would you consider are the more important kinds of information that lead to keywords?
If you want a resume that will pass resume scanning programs, attract the hiring manager's attention, and get you interviews, you need to tailor the resume to the specific job you're seeking. You need to closely read the job posting to find key words and phrases in order to match what the employer is seeking with what you've done.
Write your resume to highlight your accomplishments, then weave in some keywords from the job posting while staying honest. State your accomplishments and contributions in order to position yourself to interview effectively.
Nelly Grinfeld, MBA, NCRW, CEIC
Reading job postings and job descriptions will provide a wealth of information on the keywords to include in the resume. O*Net OnLine (www.onetonline.org) offers information on job roles in all industries and is a great tool to research the types of jobs available.
Beate Hait, CPRW, NCRW

Resume Formats
The three fundamental variations of resumes are: Chronological, Functional, and Showcase.
The Chronological format is the most traditionally used resume format. A job seeker's experience in the work world is listed in reverse chronological order. This format emphasizes duties and responsibilities with accomplishments listed under each employer. Jobs, as well as managerial and other responsibilities, are grouped by title and company, with dates of employment. This is a common format frequently used by tenured professionals with consistent work experience in one field or position type.23

What the Pros Say:
What is your opinion regarding the use of a reverse Chronological resume?
It's the best plan 99 percent of the time. It's the easiest to read and the format that most hiring managers and recruiters expect to see.
Amy Adler, MBA, MA, CMRW, CCMC
I always use a chronological format. A client's most recent job and accomplishments usually carry the most weight to the reader.
Bob Janitz, NCRW

The Functional format emphasizes skills and qualifications to strategically sell experience that may align to the needs of the employer. A job seeker's experience is divided into a skill-based section that demonstrates qualifications, training, education, and specific accomplishments, and a reverse chronological listing of employment including company name, title, and dates (toward the end of the resume). This format works well for those with gaps in employment and those whose career has involved several employers.24 Most job seekers should be careful when considering the Functional format since employers strongly favor a Chronological or Showcase resume.

What the Pros Say:
What is your opinion regarding the use of a Functional resume?
Don't do it! The functional resume typically is the kiss of death to a candidate—it's all about what someone "could" do in some context rather than about what the person has done and is likely to do in in their next role. When in doubt, go with the traditional reverse-chronological resume, as it's easily digestible by the candidate's audience, whether that person is a recruiter or a hiring manager.
Amy Adler, MBA, MA, CMRW, CCMC
In ninety-nine percent (99%) of cases it is best to stay away from a functional resume format. Recruiters and hiring managers get confused by this ambiguous format that does not associate your experience with any specific job, so the resume ends up in the trash. It is almost always best to write the resume in reverse chronological format, with the current or most recent position listed first.
Nelly Grinfeld, MBA, NCRW, CEIC

The Showcase resume is a growing trend that has developed over the last several years and combines the best features of the Chronological and Functional formats. For most experienced professionals and executives (whether they have a more diverse employment background or not), this format is worth serious consideration. The concept is to showcase your best professional selling points—qualifications, industry knowledge, and achievements—immediately in the top half or top two-thirds of the resume's first page. Work and education is then listed in reverse chronological order just like a traditional chronological resume. Using this format, you are allowed to be selectively repetitive. Some of your showcase items can appear again in the chronological section of your resume. This way, the hiring executive knows where and when you learned or achieved your showcase qualifications.

What the Pros say:
What is your opinion regarding the use of a Showcase resume? (a.k.a. Combination resume)
This is an extremely successful format if the job seeker is showcasing functions and successes within each employment.
Cheryl Minnick, M.Ed., Ed.D, CCMC, NCRW
To me this is the best of both worlds. It allows the candidate to highlight older experience that may be more relevant, up front in a summary section. Then you still have a professional experience section that shows when you did what. Sometimes I even turn the experience section into a more functional format by listing a skill and then supporting that with an accomplishment underneath each job.
Michelle Robin, NCRW, CPRW

The Dateless Resume
A dateless resume can be any of the resume formats just mentioned, and is void of any dates . . . employment, education, volunteer work, everything. Listing information this way is not recommended because a hiring executive will immediately notice and probably think "Oh my goodness, he [or she] must be ancient!" Raising red flags or emphasizing age biases is not the first impression you want to make. However, there is one viable alternative.
Provide dates going back only fifteen to twenty years, and leave off other dates. This concept can be used with any resume format. You can also group employment beyond your chosen time frame as a subsection to your experience section without dates. There's a risk the hiring executive may still conclude you are a "tenured" professional. But it is a middle ground if you want to omit some dates from your resume.

What the Pros Say:
What is your opinion regarding the use of a Dateless resume?
Fatal mistake. It appears that employment gaps are being hidden.
Bob Janitz, NCRW
Haven't written one in thirty years in the business; cannot imagine that I ever will. This wouldn't be acceptable to 99.99999 percent of employers out there.
Cheryl Lynch Simpson, CMRW, ACRW, COPNS

Parts of a Resume
No matter what form of resume you choose, each has certain parts in common that appear in the same places, or serve the same function. These are:
Identification/Contact Information
This section appears at the top of your resume and includes your name (with notable professional designations), telephone numbers (home and/or cell phone), and email address. Including your LinkedIn profile address is optional. A new trend is omitting your residence address. This is acceptable, but still include city and state. Make sure your name stands out with larger font, bolding of the letters, or another technique.
No photos should appear on your resume (unless it is required in your industry). If they want to know what you look like they can look at your LinkedIn profile.
Email Address
Your email address must be professional. Some advocate that you create an email account tailored for your job search and the email address should be supportive of your branding, i.e., engineeringexpert@xyz.net. Avoid this. Many hiring executives view this "technique" with chagrin.
Make sure your email address does not contain any reference to your age or year of birth, e.g., Johnsmith1961, or shelia57.
There are several professional formats you can use:
• jsmith@xyz.com
• john.smith@xyz.com
• smithj@xyz.com
• john@xyz.com
• johns@xyz.com
• johnsmith@xyz.com
If you need to, add your lucky number, area code, zip code, or other number prior to the @ symbol.
Title
By titling your resume, it announces what the resume is going to describe so the reader doesn't have to scan the entire resume to determine your professional background. Be reasonably specific with your title. For example, "Senior Healthcare Sales Representative," "Casualty Field Claims Professional," "Vice President of Operations."
The title of your resume should align with your LinkedIn profile and the business card type(s) you choose to use.

What the Pros Say:
Is it important to have a title on a resume?
Yes, it provides clarity to the person who is doing the initial resume scan and deciding whether to consider a candidate further. Leaving off a title can also create confusion over which position you're interested in applying for with larger companies.
Jessica Hernandez, Certified Social Branding Analyst
Yes. It is the equivalent to a headline on a newspaper article. Would you ever read an article that was missing a headline?
Virginia Franco, NCRW, CPRW

Branding Statement
Your branding statement should appear under your resume's title. This could be either a statement or a few descriptive words that relate to or support your brand. Some examples include:
Dedicated to improving sales through effective leadership.
Process Improvement • Manufacturing Efficiency • Strategy
Objective Statement
The objective statement has fallen out of favor for seasoned professionals and should not be used except for special circumstances (a significant change in career path, industry sabbaticals, and so on).
If you choose to use an Objective Statement, ensure it clearly states your purpose for pursuing a position with the employer. The content of the resume must support the Objective Statement.
Using an objective statement properly means keeping it short. Avoid such nebulous phrases as:
• "Opportunity for advancement" or "Advance my career"
• "Challenging opportunity"
• "Utilizing my experience"
• "Professional growth"
• "Increase in compensation"
State the benefits you can bring to the employer—not the benefits you want from the employer.

What the Pros Say:
What is your opinion regarding the use of an Objective Statement?
RUN AWAY! Employers couldn't care less about your objective. They naturally assume that your objective is to secure employment with them. Opt for a position title, personal branding statement and career snapshot that show the employer how you can meet a bleeding need and be a benefit to their company.
Your resume is not the place to talk about what you want, it's the place to convince employers that they're going to lose out on all the great success you'll bring with you if they choose someone else.
Jessica Hernandez, Certified Social Branding Analyst

Summary
The summary brings together the experiences of your career into the present. It is a recommended section for seasoned professionals and should be a short paragraph with an overview of your most important job experience, technical or professional proficiencies, traits, and accomplishments.25 It can also be formatted as a series of bullet point statements.
For some tenured job seekers, there is a fine line to walk when writing your summary. You want to communicate your experience without coming across as old. Here you have some judgment calls to make. Let's say you have over twenty-five years of experience. You could summarize that as "over fifteen years of experience." It is a true statement that communicates experience without coming across as older. Or, perhaps you have thirty-five years of experience. You could represent that you have "over twenty years of experience." The choice is ultimately yours. The concept is this: it is permissible to generalize your tenure in the summary section of your resume.
A summary section can have several different names, including:
• Career Description
• Career Summary
• Professional Qualifications
• Profile
• Qualifications
• Summary of Qualifications
The summary could contain some of the following information: level of responsibility, skills and responsibilities, potential contributions (as seen from the employer's perspective), and highlights of top strengths and accomplishments. It emphasizes key information detailed later in the resume. Be sure to mention languages, special degrees, and other noteworthy skills. The summary acts much like an executive summary section of a long document or white paper. A simple three-part formula to help you create an impactful summary is:
1. A statement regarding your function or title, possibly including a reference to tenure.
2. A statement identifying your technical abilities and qualifications. Accomplishments can be included here as well.
3. A statement regarding your transferable job skills and/or professional traits.
For example:
Position: Senior Accountant
Statement regarding function or title: A detail-oriented CPA with over fifteen years of experience.
Statement regarding technical ability or qualifications: Proven ability in financial forecasting and analysis, audit, reconciliation, tax law, and evaluating and consulting with clients regarding business investments and opportunities.
Statement regarding transferable job skills/professional qualities: Conscientious, self-motivated, and service-oriented professional who enjoys client interaction.
Complete Summary: A detailed-oriented CPA with over fifteen years of experience. Proven ability in financial forecasting and analysis, audit, reconciliation, tax law, and evaluating and consulting with clients regarding business investments and opportunities. Conscientious, self-motivated, and service-oriented professional who enjoys client interaction.
After you have this foundation in place, you can add to it as your discretion dictates. An effective summary section should be concise. Many professionals make the mistake of making a summary too long. By using this three-part formula you will be crafting a solid, impactful summary.

What the Pros Say:
As a resume writer, what do you want to achieve with a Summary section?
Besides answering the three burning questions on every employer's mind (Who are you?, What do you do?, What can you do for me?), I view the Summary section much the same as a movie trailer or the blurb on a book jacket. A good Summary will grab attention, pique interest, and create desire by presenting "the coming attractions." Just like a movie trailer, we want the "viewer" to feel "this is one I've got to see" so he/she will set it aside to dive into later.
Norine Dagliano, BA, NCRW, CFRW/CC
This is the most important part of your resume. It should highlight what you are most proud of in your career that is relevant to where you're going, and any common threads of your career.
If someone found the top third of your resume, which contains your header and summary, lying on the ground, they should be able to tell who you are, what is unique about you, and the value you bring to an employer. Not only that, but it should make them look around on the ground for the rest of your resume because they want to read more. That is what I aim to achieve with every summary I write.
Michelle Robin, NCRW, CPRW

Core Competencies
Almost all resumes for experienced professionals and executives should have a Core Competencies section. Although there are likely hundreds of competencies and skills that could be listed, as a rule keep it to no more than three columns of five, totaling fifteen.
Your competencies should fall into one of the following major areas: technical ability (what you are good at), communication skills, leadership, analytical thinking, teamwork, and time management. These tend to be the broad skills most employers seek.26
This section can have other titles, such as:
• Abilities
• Core Strengths and Expertise
• Key Skills
• Skills
• Signature Strengths

What the Pros Say:
Do you find it important, as a resume writer, to list Core Competencies/Skills somewhere on a resume?
It is essential to include Core Competencies/Skills/Areas of Expertise somewhere within the resume since these terms often constitute the search criteria that a company uses in an applicant tracking system to identify candidates for initial consideration. We want that resume to land in the "active candidate pool" file. I often also include a list of those keywords to make it easy for the hiring authority to immediately note these essential skills in the job seeker's resume.
Beate Hait, CPRW, NCRW

Showcase Section(s)
If you elect to use a showcase-style resume, the next section (or two, depending on your circumstances) can be your Showcase section. Although you have a lot of discretion on titling and content, the key is to make this section substantive and impressive. Use lists and bullet points to make the information easier to read.
Possible titles for Showcase section(s) include:
• Achievement Summaries
• High-Impact Contributions
• Notable Performance Highlights
• Distribution or Vendor Partners
• Expertise
• Languages (Foreign or IT)
• Marquee Clients
• Product Knowledge
• Recommendations
• Sales Awards
Employment History
The Employment History section covers work experience for the last fifteen years or so. List employers in reverse chronological order. Work experience beyond fifteen years can be listed at the end with single sentences or as a grouping of employer names.
Begin with details on the most important items: current company/employer's name, your title(s), and dates (in years). List what the company's official name is now, even if it was purchased or merged after you began work there, e.g., "GlobalOutlook (formerly Global SpyGlass)." Many company names or initials could make it hard to figure out what the company is or does. Therefore, use a sentence that encapsulates the company's position, earnings, products, and/or other unique qualifiers. As an example: NAME OF COMPANY: "A worldwide manufacturer of high-end personal-care products with $134M in annual sales."
Most times, be sure to list the company name first, and only once. This reduces the likelihood employers will think you have job-hopped when you have not.
Next, follow the company name with your title. If this title is in-house and hard to understand, include a translation or generic job title. For example, you can substitute "Purchasing Agent" with "Product Specialist/Purchasing Representative" if that makes things easier for those who aren't a part of your industry or company. Providing a functional title educates the hiring executive about your actual function and role. If you held multiple titles with the same employer, mention a date next to each to show promotions or advancement within an organization.
Job Scope Description
For each position, write a four- to six-sentence description of your duties and responsibilities (what you did). This could include information regarding the dimension and scope of the position, function, staff size, geographical reach, budget, reporting relationships, departments, and so on. Here's an example:

Professional Experience
GlobalOutlook (formerly Global SpyGlass), Anytown, Anywhere 20XX-Present
Regional Sales Executive
Promoted to revitalize underperforming Northeast sales territory. Developed new business channels on a regional and national basis. Reestablished relationships with client base. Products included enrollment technology, analytics, and predictive modeling, among others.
This section can have other titles, such as:
• Career Experience
• Employment Background
• Experience
• Professional Experience
• Relevant Experience
• Work Experience
• Career Narrative


What the Pros Say:
When you create the employment history section of a resume, what is your approach? What are you thinking?
I aim to summarize their tenure and the context of their achievements in a brief two- to three-line position description. I reserve the bulk of each position's space for three to six hard-hitting achievements. I place these in order of importance or relevance and keep each bullet to one to two lines if at all possible. The higher the level of position the person is pursuing the more I emphasize their impact on strategic planning versus tactical execution.
Cheryl Lynch Simpson, CMRW, ACRW, COPNS
In the employment history section, rather than simply listing tasks performed, I look to tell the story of how well the job seeker performed the job and in doing so helped the employer save time, save money, make money, be more productive, increase market share, reduce expenses, etc. Including metrics in those statements makes these bullet points stronger.
Beate Hait, CPRW, NCRW

Accomplishments
An accomplishment is a detailed account of success regarding the duties and responsibilities of your job. Make sure your specific successes are crystal clear to the hiring executive.
Accomplishments are vitally important to your job search. It has been said that qualifications often get you an interview, but accomplishments and rapport are what get you the job27. Identify and quantify your accomplishments, and use bullet points for easy reading.
Accomplishments:
• Clearly demonstrate your ability to improve a company's efficiency or bottom line.
• Emphasize positive work outcomes with dates, percentages, numbers, and so on.
• Display why an organization will find you effective.
• Translate your value by showing your performance in similar circumstances.
Accomplishments focus on quantities, improvements, and results from an organization's perspective. How did you make or save the employer money?28 Or how did your actions lead to a beneficial result?29 Highlight accomplishments with $, %, or # as applicable to enhance credibility.
Accomplishments can be a separate Showcase section on your resume. Or, especially for chronological resumes, they can be a subsection to each position you have held.
What Accomplishments Get Employers' Attention?
Remember that employers generally hire with two main goals: to make or save money.30 The more obvious your accomplishments appear to achieve either goal, the more powerful the accomplishment is. The following list of accomplishments can help spark ideas as you contemplate your own (refer back to Understanding the Employer's Mindset):
1. Increased revenues
2. Awards, rankings against your peers, or production numbers
3. Process improvement that saves money or time, increases efficiency, or makes work easier
4. Improved company image, branding
5. Opened new distribution channels for sales
6. Product improvements, product development
7. Expanded business/sales through existing accounts
8. Anything that enhances competitiveness
9. Improved client retention
10. Improved company culture, morale, employee retention
The following is a list of positions. Under each are ideas from which accomplishment statements can be created. Although a particular position type may not apply to you, adopt this mindset when considering your accomplishments.

ACCOUNTING
• Design and implementation of cost controls and quantifiable results
• Optimization of business output through software or other technology
• Application of tax laws
ACCOUNT MANAGEMENT
• Client retention
• Contribution to sales growth (upselling)
• Key account responsibilities
ENGINEERING
• Financial outcomes from new designs or products
• Patents awarded or pending
• Projects managed and financial results
EXECUTIVE-LEVEL MANAGEMENT
• Measurable increases in revenues, profits, EBITDA31, and ROI
• Leadership regarding strategic planning, long-term business development
• Mergers, acquisitions, joint ventures
HEALTH CARE
• Increase in quality of patient care, with detailed results
• Increased impact of outreach services, with their results
• Attainment and maintenance of stringent regulatory requirements
• Reduction in re-admittance
HUMAN RESOURCES
• Success in recruiting personnel
• Employee retention
• Improvements in employee benefits and cost reduction
MANUFACTURING
• Increases in production and worker productivity
• Improvements in safety
• Reductions in operating costs and overhead expenses
RETAIL
• Increases in gross revenues, profit margins, and market impact
• Improvements in inventory turnover, speed to market
• Reductions in inventory, operating, and personnel costs
SALES
• Sales honors, awards, percentages over quota, rankings against peers
• Increases in revenues, profits, and market share
• Sold new national accounts
• Expansion into previously undeveloped territories and markets
TECHNOLOGY
• Development of new technologies and their financial results
• Detailed results of implementation (e.g., revenue increases, cost reductions)
• Patents awarded
• Timely systems conversion, integration


What the Pros Say:
How important is it to quantify accomplishments on a resume?
Very! In today's times, the readers of resumes want to see what differentiates one candidate from another. Job tasks and responsibilities will not vary much. However, the key accomplishments and achievements allow the job seeker to stand out more.
Wendi Weiner, JD, NCRW, CPRW, CCTC, CCM
Absolutely imperative! Without quantified achievements a resume is no more than a list of jobs and cannot position a candidate to compete in a tight job market.
Cheryl Lynch Simpson, CMRW, ACRW, COPNS

Education
Provide educational background starting with your most advanced degree or major, and the university or college name. Abbreviations are fine: BS, BA, MS, MBA, and PhD. Use the same fonts for school and company names. If you do not have a full degree, include those details by mentioning what degree you pursued and the amount of years or semesters attended (or percentage completed, if available). Include your education at the bottom unless you feel there are grounds to move it up or if it is customary in your industry to have it appear early on a resume.

What the Pros Say:
Do you have any unique techniques in writing the Education section?
I will ensure either the degree or the name of the institution stands out—depending on which one is more powerful and/or relevant to the job search. For instance, a degree from Harvard stands out regardless of the focus of study, as does a master's in information systems for someone gunning for a CIO role.
Virginia Franco, NCRW, CPRW
When writing the Education section, the focus can be either on the degree, the major area of study, or the college/university—whichever piece would best support the job seeker's target. If the Education piece is the job seeker's main qualification—such as a recent college graduate or someone who is changing careers and has earned new credentials—the Education section should be listed under the Summary section rather than at the end of the resume.
Beate Hait, CPRW, NCRW

Other Credentials
The following sections can add depth to your resume. You may not need every section below—just those representing strong qualifications for you.

1. Affiliations/Associations
Affiliations and associations can be impactful on a resume by indicating your involvement in your industry and the community. Include groups of which you are a member. An Affiliations section may look like this:
American Marketing Association
Society for Human Resource Management
Health Care Administrators Association
American Red Cross
2. Appointments
Appointments are a list of offices you held (generally in the last five years) and demonstrate involvement in both professional and civic organizations. Include only professional or significant charitable organizations. An Appointments section may look like this:
Chairperson, American Management Association, 20XX-20XX
Paul Harris Fellow, Rotary International, 20XX-20XX
Regional Director—Rapid Response, American Red Cross, 20XX-20XX
3. Awards/Honors
This section reveals achievements, awards, and honors not connected to your career. Include accolades from college activities, professional service organizations, volunteer work, and so on. Examples include:
Team Captain, Central Minnesota University Softball Team
Up and Comer Award, Rotary International
Volunteer of the Year, American Red Cross
4. Languages
The world is getting smaller. Being fluent or proficient in a foreign language can be a significant differentiator, depending on the kind of positions you are pursuing. A Language section generally appears this way:
Fluent in Portuguese
Proficient in Italian
5. Licenses
List all licenses relevant or required in your industry or the job description for your desired position. Don't list a real estate license if you aren't seeking a position in that industry.
6. Professional Training and Designations
Continuing education in your chosen field is important. It's a clear indication to future employers that you stay current and are improving your skills and knowledge. List noteworthy workshops, seminars, and other continuing education you have completed in the last five years. List only those seminars that pertain to the type of position you are looking for. A typical professional training section will look like this:
Dale Carnegie Corporate Strategy—20XX
Managing for Excellence, sponsored by the American Management Association—20XX
Selling!, a five-day program sponsored by Kaufman and Gentry Sales Training—20XX
If you've attended more than five courses, just note the types along with who sponsored them, such as:
Completed sales, management, and computer skills trainings sponsored by the American Management Association—20XX
7. Technical
Understanding technology is becoming indispensable in today's world. Include your proficiencies with technology here. A Technical section generally appears this way:
C++, Cisco UCS, Commvault, VMWare, Windows Servers, Microsoft Active Directory, WordPerfect, PowerPoint, Microsoft Office, Microsoft Outlook, Adobe Acrobat


What the Pros Say:
There is a variety of additional information that can be included on a resume, such as: affiliations/associations, memberships, appointments (appointed positions), non-career related awards and honors, languages, and licenses, among others. How do you treat this information on a resume?
I present this information briefly. It's part of the personal brand, and you never know when you'll run into a hiring manager who was also an Eagle Scout or sits on the board of your nonprofit. A note on nonprofits, volunteerism is becoming increasingly important to put on a resume as companies are more and more concerned with corporate citizenship.
Kimberly Robb Baker, NCRW, CJSS, CMRW
It depends on what it is and how relevant it is to where my client is going in their career. Most often I regulate these types of things to a Volunteerism or Of Note section at the end of a resume. However, there are certain awards that are more impressive and may need to be featured earlier in the resume. I had a client once who was a top 36 under 36, a volunteer of the year, and was accepted into a special mentor program. While some of these were not career related, showing them all together up front made more sense.
Michelle Robin, NCRW, CPRW

Use of Recommendations on a Resume
When properly used, recommendations, testimonials, and endorsements appearing on a resume can be impactful. Due to a resume's limited space, a statement of recommendation must be short, relevant, and direct. Consider putting recommendations in quotes, italics (for effect), or both. Testimonials and endorsements from others are more powerful than what you say about yourself.32 Some recommendations can double as accomplishments (as in the first example).
For the recommendation to be effective, the person providing it must be identified by name and title. Get permission from this individual prior to including their recommendation on your resume.

Examples:
"Increased average profit on special orders by 17 percent, resulting in thousands of dollars in new revenue."
Letter of Appreciation from Elizabeth Jones, VP of Accounting
"Bonnie is a valued member of our team. Her expertise in cost-accounting strategies positively impacted our bottom line."
Elizabeth Jones, VP of Accounting
You can also close a resume with an impactful recommendation:
"Katy was clearly the most client-focused account manager we had on our team!"
Bob Johnson, Vice President of Account Management


What the Pros Say:
What is your opinion about including recommendations on a resume?
Short quips from positive performance reviews, letters of recommendation or appreciation serve brilliantly on resumes as testimonials and are quite successful if used strategically. A testimonial should speak to job tasks of the future job and to the candidate's past accomplishments that would add value to the future company. OR, the testimonial could be from a powerful player in the industry, whose voice holds power (the mayor, a senator, a senior VP).
Cheryl Minnick, M.Ed., Ed.D, CCMC, NCRW
I like to include brief quotes. You can let others say laudatory things about you that would have a false or boastful ring if you stated them in the first person. Brief is the keyword, though. Most recommendations are long-winded. Quote selectively from them so they can be consumed and understood quickly.
Kimberly Robb Baker, NCRW, CJSS, CMRW

Information NOT to be Included on a Resume
• Never put "References Upon Request" on a resume. It is naturally assumed that you will furnish references if asked.
• Never give reasons why you've left any of your previous jobs.
• Never list your career's salary progression on a resume.33
• Avoid putting personal or legally protected characteristics on your resume. This would include age, marital status, length of marriage, ages of children, race, state of health, social security number, height, weight, and so forth.
Testing the Impact of Your Resume
After your resume is complete, see if it makes the initial impression or impact you want. Give your resume to two or three objective colleagues who you can trust. Ideally, you want colleagues from the business world who hire as part of their job. Ask them to take ten to fifteen seconds to look at your resume. What do they remember?
If the "impact" points of your resume are not what you want them to remember, you may need to revise it. On the other hand, if your review group remembers what you want to communicate with your resume, it's ready for use! Have your "quality control" group do the same for your other job-search documents or online profiles.
QR Codes
You can add a QR code to your resume (a QR code is a static-like barcode found on many contemporary advertisements). They can add a unique visual appearance to your resume and be a differentiator. They have faded in popularity, but can be effectively used in some industries (e.g., marketing, advertising, etc.) Generally speaking, QR codes tend to appear on a resume either in the upper right hand corner of the front page or bottom of the second page, but there is no placement rule. Use discretion and make sure the code does not distract from your resume's overall appearance.

What the Pros Say:
What is your opinion about adding a QR code on a resume?
I think they are a bit of a fad. Personally, I have never put one on a resume. I could maybe see a case to put one on for someone in marketing because they want to demonstrate their knowledge of digital marketing. I will say that if you do include one, the site you lead the reader to better be impressive.
Michelle Robin, NCRW, CPRW

Dealing with Employment Gaps on a Resume
Employment gaps on a resume can create anxiety. Fortunately, most employers understand the difficulties of the job market, the negative employment dynamics of a particular industry, or have experienced a gap in employment themselves.
Judgments regarding employment gaps have eased. According to a study conducted by CareerBuilder, 85 percent of hiring executives and human resource professionals are more understanding of employment gaps than they once were.34 While there is an understanding that bad things can happen to good people, there are limits. If your gap is reasonably short and you have been productive in some way using or enhancing your skills, the gap is generally overlooked. But the longer the gap, the more negatively an employer views that gap.
Studies indicate that once your employment gap exceeds six months, your job search can become precipitously more difficult.35 The unstated reasoning is if you have been unemployed for over six months nobody wants to hire you (especially when you have been actively looking for a job).
So, how can you get around this potential judgment and frightening statistic? Take comfort—there are ways:
• On your resume, list your dates of employment in years only, not month and year. It is honest and can cover your gap. However, if asked about actual dates of employment, be forthright with your answer.
• Use a Showcase resume. Do what you can to emphasize your strongest selling points up front on your resume. Hopefully, this will focus the employer on your skills, knowledge, and achievements and not on the employment gap.
• Become a consultant. You obviously have ability, so try to secure some paid opportunities to advise and consult with companies in your areas of expertise. The key is to show that you have remained active and are using your skills.
• Volunteer to offer your services for a worthy cause or association. It may not be complicated work, but it is using your skills in some capacity. Examples: As an accountant, do the bookkeeping for a nonprofit which you are passionate about. As a sales professional, volunteer to do fund-raising.
• Continue your education. This does not necessarily mean getting an MBA (although, clearly, that would be advantageous), but begin working toward a substantive industry designation.
• Be very cautious of the word "sabbatical" on a resume. It is an unusual word to the commercial private business sector. It raises the suspicion of long-term unemployment.
• Depending upon the circumstances, briefly address the employment gap in your cover letter. It could be that you chose not to look for a job, but you must have a very good reason. This information would come under the "Additional Information" section. (See Cover Letters and Other Written Communications.) Keep it brief.
• As a last resort, use the Functional resume format.
• Above all, never sacrifice your integrity.

What the Pros Say:
How do you deal with employment gaps on a resume?
I don't try to hide them or pretend they don't exist, but I also try to not have them jump off the page. Depending on the reason for the gap and how long of a gap, I may employ one of the following strategies:
Only list the beginning and ending years of all jobs (not the month and year).
Place the dates somewhere other than the right margin (possibly near the job title or the company name).
Press the client for details about what he/she was doing during this gap. Maybe I can fill the gap by including that the client was volunteering somewhere or taking a class (or traveling the world).
If the gap was due to something out of the client's control—such as a RIF (reduction in force) — I'd work language into the job description/job scope section for the position the client was in prior to the layoff. (For example, "Led the installation and launch of new customer relationship management platform that minimized need for telephone follow-up and ultimately led to closure of the customer service call center and elimination of my position.")
Norine Dagliano, BA, NCRW, CFRW/CC
That's a big question, and the answer is that "it depends."
In the case of a short-term gap in the candidate's deep history, I usually don't do anything, as most hiring managers will not take these sorts of things into account.
If the gap is short, then I use years of employment rather than months/years.
If the gap is longer, then it might be worthwhile to fill in the gap with something relevant, e.g., full-time school, relevant volunteerism, self-education programs, personal caregiving, and so on, in a single line item.
In any case, the candidate has to own his or her history, which they cannot change at this point. So they have to be prepared with a good story to tell about any gaps in their history.
Amy Adler, MBA, MA, CMRW, CCMC
Be honest. If you were out of work to raise your children or care for an ailing relative, I list it. There may be skills used or developed that are relevant to your career!
Bob Janitz, NCRW

Infographic Resume
An infographic resume is a colorful, high-resolution document that visually presents your background and accomplishments by using pie charts, bar graphs, time lines and other graphics in creative ways. They can be particularly impactful to display notable achievements, high-level recommendations, and patterns of success, among other things.
The impact of an infographic resume comes from the fact that readers are drawn to colorful images. It grabs their attention, which is precisely the differentiation you want in a competitive job market.36 There's a tendency to remember things better when they are presented with images.

What the Pros Say:
For a job seeker, what could be the strategic advantages of using an infographic resume?
1. Candidate can stand out from the thousands of drab, mundane, and generic resumes.
2. Candidate becomes memorable due to being innovative and personally branded.
3. Interviewer catches a glimpse into the personality of the candidate and can determine if there is a culture fit with the organization.
4. Infographic resume tells a story in images, which sends a positive message to the interviewer. Images, when crafted appropriately, trigger an emotional and intellectual reaction. Images are embedded in our brains and when positive stories are told through infographic resumes, positive results can occur.
Tina Kashlak Nicolai, PHR, CPBA, CARW
Lominger Certified (Interview Architect)

An infographic resume can, in limited circumstances, replace the traditional resume. This is most often the case in the creative fields like design, marketing, advertising, digital media, and so on.
However, for most, an infographic resume should be used as a supplement or differentiation tactic in conjunction with a traditional resume. Even then, its use is better suited for some positions (sales, for example) than others.37 With these caveats, an infographic resume can be a persuasive tool in your job-search arsenal.

What the Pros Say:
Can an infographic resume replace the need of a traditional resume?
For industries that are more creative, progressive, and appreciate the innovation of the visual resume, infographic resumes can replace the need of a traditional resume. The other option is to use the infographic resume in lieu of a cover letter and entice the interviewer to ask for a supplemental document listing more detailed achievements.
Some infographic resumes have a comment stating, "Want a traditional resume? Call or email me and I'll send one to you!" This can lead to a better experience for the hiring leaders and the candidate because engagement has occurred.
Generally speaking, conservative companies and traditional organizations are not the place to submit an infographic resume. It's interesting, some people think that infographic resumes are strictly for creative industries, however it's not the industry that determines when to submit an infographic resume, rather it's the company and the culture.
Tina Kashlak Nicolai, PHR, CPBA, CARW
Lominger Certified (Interview Architect)

There are advantages, disadvantages, and considerations for using an infographic resume in a job search. Let's start with a few advantages:
Differentiation. An infographic resume is clearly a differentiation tactic. Although the idea of an infographic resume has been around for a while, they are not widely used and therefore seldom seen by hiring executives in most industries. A well-thought-out, well-prepared, and well-presented infographic resume can make you stand out compared to other job seekers.38
A Networking Tool. Instead of, or used in conjunction with, your traditional resume and business cards, an infographic resume can be shared at networking functions.
One unique approach would be selecting your most persuasive achievements and creating an infographic "handbill." Create a four-inch-by-six-inch infographic handbill and put it on thicker paper or treat it as a large business card. This is truly unique and seldom seen. It will create conversation.39
Insight into Your Thinking and Presentation Skills. One interesting advantage to an infographic resume is it opens the door of insight into how you think and creatively present ideas and concepts. This can be very persuasive if the position(s) you are pursuing require presentation skills.40
Vividly Presents Your Professional Background. Infographic resumes are colorful, high-resolution documents. Unlike your LinkedIn profile (which is an online template) and your resume (which has expected and accepted sections), an infographic resume is a blank canvass. It is a platform to creatively present your professional background and accomplishments. You can present yourself in any way you choose using color and graphics.
Although the advantages of an infographic resume are attractive, there are also disadvantages to consider.
How Will It Be Received by Hiring Executives? This is a serious consideration. An infographic resume is a creative idea and can be very intriguing. It can open your mind to all sorts of creative thoughts on how to present your information. This is especially true once you start viewing examples. However, it is not the right or most impactful strategy for every industry or position.41 Only you can gauge the receptiveness and persuasive influence an infographic resume would have on hiring executives in your job search.
It Must Contain Impactful Information. If an infographic resume does not have persuasive appeal, it will hurt your job search. It can be a distraction on your candidacy for the job or eliminate you from contention for the position.
It Must Look Great! Not just "good." Your final product must have a "holy cow, this is really cool" factor. Otherwise, it will not have the differentiating effect you are looking for. One interesting concept you could explore is creating an "Infographic" section to your traditional resume. This would be a form of a Showcase resume using color and graphics as your Showcase section. Then, traditional resume information would follow.

What the Pros Say:
Are some colors and graphic design concepts more impactful in creating an infographic resume than others?
Crisp lines coupled with contrasting textures and fonts are the key to creating a compelling infographic resume. There is not one color better than another. What makes a difference is how the colors are put together. Some infographics are very powerful with a lot of white space, while others are hugely compelling by using the entire canvas and filling in all of the white space with images, words, arrows, color, etc.
Tina Kashlak Nicolai, PHR, CPBA, CARW
Lominger Certified (Interview Architect)

A few final thoughts. It is highly recommended that you speak to professionals who create these documents. Seek their opinion as to whether you have the caliber of career information and accomplishments to have an impactful infographic resume (with the understanding that they will have the incentive to persuade you to buy their services). Seek out and evaluate examples of other infographic resumes from people with similar backgrounds to yours (if possible). Since creating the document on your own can take countless hours, consider hiring a professional.
If you create an infographic resume (or have one created for you), use it! One easy thing to do is attach it to your LinkedIn profile. Obviously you want to have it to hand out during networking events and as a supplement to interviews. Since you put in the time, effort, thought, and money into this tactic, look for ways to leverage it in your job-search activities.

What the Pros Say:
What is your opinion about the use of an infographic resume?
Infographic resumes are useful in some circles, for example if you are a social media professional. For the most part, I believe they don't work well with the applicant tracking systems recruiters and HR teams have in place to keep track of candidates. However, visuals are very powerful, and if an infographic resume truly adds to your case as a candidate, you might consider linking to it on your resume and/or bringing a printed version to interviews as a discussion tool or leave-behind.
Kimberly Robb Baker, NCRW, CJSS, CMRW
More and more frequently, I am including charts, graphs, graphics, and callout boxes on the traditional resume, to help call attention to and convey key points. In this way, the traditional resume is trending more toward what many may think of as an infographic resume. However, I still provide a graphic-intensive, one-page summary document that I have named an "infographic value profile." The purpose of this document is different than a resume. It is meant as a complement to the resume. I would never advocate its use as a stand-alone substitute for the resume for most industries.
Michelle Dumas, NCRW, CPRW


19 "Quotes on Perseverance," The Samuel Johnson Sound Bite Page, http://www.samueljohnson.com/persever.html (accessed June 2, 2015); "Rasselas: A Word of Caution," The Samuel Johnson Sound Bite Page, http://www.samueljohnson.com/rasselas.html (accessed June 2, 2015).
20 Some of these writers seem to have limited (discernable) experience in the staffing or employment industries, in either an HR or recruiting capacity. They are consultants in the media, marketing, and management arenas, or have a financial interest in promoting the idea that traditional resumes are passé or outdated.
21 Messner, Max, "5 Tips for Better Resume Writing", http://www.dummies.com/careers/find-a-job/resumes/5-tips-for-better-resume-writing/ (accessed February 5,2017), Greenberg, Carrie, "Oops! Common Resume Mistakes," http://www.fastweb.com/career-planning/articles/oops-common-resume-mistakes (accessed February 5, 2017).
22 Bucknell Career Development Center, "Creating an Effective Resume," Bucknell University, http://www.bucknell.edu/documents/CDC/Creating_An_Effective_Resume.pdf (accessed February 19, 2016).
23 Yate, Knock 'em Dead, p. 45-46.
24 Ibid., p. 46.
25 Ibid., p. 47.
26 Ibid., p. 48.
27 Guest Author (Bob Bozorgi), "Qualifications Will Get You an Interview, But They Won't Get You Hired," The Undercover Recruiter (blog), http://theundercoverrecruiter.com/qualifications-will-get-interview-wont-get-hired/ (accessed February 19, 2016).
28 Whitcomb, Job Search Magic, p. 274.
29 See also, Safani, "Tell a Story."
30 Whitcomb, Job Search Magic, p. 274.
31 "Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization"; see Arline, Katherine. "What Is EBITDA?" Business News Daily, February 25, 2015, http://www.businessnewsdaily.com/4461-ebitda-formula-definition.html (accessed February 19, 2016).
32 See also, Matt, "Brag Book."
33 Yate, Knock 'em Dead, p. 48.
34 CareerBuilder, "Employers Share Encouraging Perspectives and Tips for the Unemployed in New CareerBuilder Survey," news release, March 21, 2012, http://www.careerbuilder.com/share/aboutus/pressreleasesdetail.aspx?id=pr684&sd=3/21/2012&ed=12/31/2012&siteid=cbpr&sc_cmp1=cb_pr684_ (accessed May 29, 2015).
35 O'Brien, Matthew. "The Terrifying Reality of Long-Term Unemployment," The Atlantic, April 13, 2013, http://www.theatlantic.com/business/archive/2013/04/the-terrifying-reality-of-long-term-unemployment/274957/ (accessed May 29, 2015).
36 Pamela Skillings, "The Ultimate Infographic Resume Guide," Big Interview (blog), June 18, 2013, http://biginterview.com/blog/2013/06/infographic-resumes.html (accessed February 17, 2016).
37 See also, ibid.
38 Ibid.
39 See also, ibid.
40 Ibid.
41 Ibid.







Part III
LinkedIn
Active participation on LinkedIn is the best way to say, 'Look at me!' without saying 'Look at me!'
— Bobby Darnell42
Please Note: LinkedIn changes its format, features, appearance, and functionality regularly. These changes enhance the LinkedIn experience as well as restrict some of its functionality. This topic on LinkedIn was current at the time of writing.
LinkedIn is the most used and effective professional networking website on the planet, with more than 467 million members in two hundred countries and growing.43 In the United States alone there are more than 128 million members. At present, LinkedIn adds "more than two new members every second."44 "Over 25 million profiles are viewed on LinkedIn daily."45
In today's job market, it is imperative to your job search to have a complete LinkedIn profile. In a recent survey of HR professionals and recruiters, 65 percent cite a lack of skilled candidates in the market as the largest obstacle to hiring.46 Human talent is the lifeblood for every company, but there is a war for talent in the market due to the lack of well-qualified candidates.
Being in a candidate-driven job market is a good environment when you are looking for a job (should you be fortunate enough to be in that environment when searching for a job). But how can you maximize being discovered for open opportunities? Answer: your LinkedIn profile. LinkedIn is the overwhelming resource (87 percent) most frequently used by HR recruiters to identify and evaluate candidates.47 By having a complete and robust LinkedIn profile, you significantly increase your chances of being contacted by a HR recruiter. In fact, "Users with complete profiles are forty times more likely to receive opportunities through LinkedIn."48
Having a complete LinkedIn profile is imperative to your job search.
What makes your profile complete? Generally speaking, your profile is complete when it has the following:
• Your location and industry
• A current position (with a description)
• Two past positions
• Your education
• Your skills (minimum of three)
• A profile photo
• At least fifty connections49
If your profile is incomplete, it won't register as high in searches as those that are more robust.50 It cannot be overemphasized. LinkedIn should be your primary online professional networking and job-search tool.
In many cases, your LinkedIn profile could be the first impression a hiring executive has of you. A strong profile is a must. It gives you credibility.
Before we begin discussions on specific LinkedIn topics, and if you already have a profile, it is recommended that you turn off the network notification function of your profile until you have completed making all changes to your profile. Here's how: Go to your Profile page. Click on the "Me" icon at the top and from the drop down, select "Settings and Privacy."

Then, select the Privacy option.

Scroll down and click on the "Sharing Profile Edits." Turn off your network announcements.

By doing this, your network will not be alerted regarding changes you may be making. You can reactivate the announcements later if you choose.
Use of Keywords
It is estimated that there are more than a billion searches annually on LinkedIn.51 Companies and recruiters search keywords to find candidates (in addition to people who search for a particular company or person).
Let's take a quick review of keywords. As you know, keywords are specific words or phrases that reflect your experiences and abilities, and are frequently buzzwords, or terms-of-art that are applicable to you professionally. Like your resume, your profile must contain certain keywords to get attention and communicate that you are qualified for a particular position.
Keywords can include the following:
• Position title
• Industries
• Professional designation
• Skills, knowledge, core competencies
• Industry terms-of-art (and abbreviations)
• Employer names (past or present)
• Licenses, certifications
• Location (state, city)
• Software and technologies you're familiar with
• Education (school names and degrees)
We will have an extended discussion about the use of keywords when we talk about optimization.
Your LinkedIn Profile - Sections
Before we begin our discussion on building an impactful profile ("optimization"), let's briefly introduce the major components of your profile.
1. Photo
Your photo is important. It shows that you are a real person. Since LinkedIn has a professional focus—and you are looking for a job—it is recommended to have a photo taken at a studio by a professional or, at a minimum, a close-up photograph of you professionally dressed. According to experts, "profiles with a photo are fourteen times more likely to be viewed."52 Moreover, having a photo makes you thirty-six times more likely to receive a message on LinkedIn.53
Here are some Dos and Don'ts when it comes to your LinkedIn photo. Many of these have been cited in a study by PhotoFeeler54, while others should be common sense considering that LinkedIn is a professional networking site.
Do:
Be professionally dressed
The photo should be of your head and shoulders
Look directly into the camera; make eye contact
Smile
Don't:
No sunglasses (clear eyeglasses are fine)
No fish
No pets
No golf course photos
No family portraits
No kids or grandchildren
No shopping mall Glamour Shots
It is highly recommended that your LinkedIn profile photo be professionally taken.
2. Name
Use the name you commonly go by. If your given name is Richard, but you go by Rich, use Rich. It is permissible to put both your given name and the name you use in quotation marks or parentheses. If you have a common name, you may want to add your middle initial.

What the Pros Say:
What is your opinion about the name a client should use on their LinkedIn profile? Should they use their birth name, the name they go by, or their birth name with the name they go by in quotation marks?
Most often, the name they go by. But distinction is important. For example, there are many Kim Bakers, so even though that's the name I go by, I use my full name Kimberly Robb Baker so that there is only one of me on LinkedIn and other online platforms.
Kimberly Robb Baker, NCRW, CJSS, CMRW
I recommend that the name used on a LinkedIn profile should match how the individual is known in the workplace so the profile is easily found when doing a search. For consistency, that form of the name is also the one that should be used on the resume.
Beate Hait, CPRW, NCRW

Professional designations appearing in the name field. There is a difference of opinion among commentators on this topic.55 However, it can be to your advantage to put one (maybe two) notable professional designations behind your name. Designations should be significant to your industry, add to your credibility, or create a competitive advantage in the job market. Using one notable designation could increase the odds of having your profile viewed.

What the Pros Say:
What is your opinion about including one or two professional designations in the last name box of a LinkedIn profile?
For job seekers who have industry-specific designations that align with their job search goals, it is imperative to include them in the name and/or headline sections of their profile, since these two locations are prime real estate on LinkedIn.
Cheryl Lynch Simpson, CMRW, ACRW, COPNS
I recommend listing a law degree (JD), relevant master's, MBA, or doctorate after the last name. You want those professional designations to stand out. They can also be used strategically to position yourself in certain industries. For example, someone may have a JD but may not actively practice law. However, a JD is a very valuable educational tool that can position someone in business consulting or management work. So, definitely stand proud of your educational achievements and don't be afraid to boast about them in your LinkedIn profile.
Wendi Weiner, JD, NCRW, CPRW, CCTC, CCM

3. Headline
Under your name is your Headline area. It is the first thing someone reads about you.

You have 120 character spaces in your headline. Make it impactful (which will increase the number of views you receive) by describing yourself with keywords or short phrases that best describe your function. "What do you want to be known for?"56 Or found for? Avoid superlatives or flamboyant adjectives in your headline (e.g., The Industry's Best Sales Representative on the Planet).
The headline ultimately attracts viewers with the intention that they continue to read your profile and be impressed with your experience, skills, and accomplishments. When we discuss optimization, we will delve much deeper into the strategic use of your headline.

What the Pros Say:
How do you view the Headline section? What is your thinking when you formulate the Headline?
The headline under your name should make it very clear what you do, by using keywords and job titles your target audience will associate with. Make sure you use the keywords, industry phrases, and terms your reader will understand.
Nelly Grinfeld, MBA, NCRW, CEIC
Your headline should act like teaser copy to get people to click on your full profile. I take one of two approaches when writing headlines. One, I go with a lot of keywords that will help my client get found faster. Two, I go with a value statement or personal branding type statement.
Michelle Robin, NCRW, CPRW
The headline section should be keyword rich and convey some sense of who the job seeker is and what they offer, while providing an enticing reason to click through on the profile and read more.
Michelle Dumas, NCRW, CPRW

4. Location and Industry
The Location section appears below your Headline.

LinkedIn lists every significant metropolitan city in the country (more than 280 geographical location phrases at last count). Your location (or one very close) is likely listed.
It is important to put an accurate metropolitan city location on your profile. When employers and recruiters conduct searches, they often look for profiles of individuals who live in a particular city or region. Listing no location or a generic "United States" makes you almost invisible to employers and recruiters who may need a qualified candidate in a particular location.
When selecting a city, use a major metropolitan area instead of a suburb. This increases your odds that a HR recruiter will find you.
Be accurate when choosing an industry specialty. LinkedIn lists 145 industry phrases (at last count), so choose the one that best fits you. Your industry specialty is only viewable to HR recruiters that use advanced platforms of LinkedIn. When employers and recruiters conduct searches, they may look for profiles from particular industries—ones from which they have made successful hires in the past.
Including an industry on your profile has the potential to get you fifteen times the amount of views than those who do not list an industry.57
To access your Location and Industry, click "Me" at the top of the LinkedIn page. From the drop down, select Settings and Privacy. Scroll down and select Name, location, and industry.

5. Contact and Personal Information
LinkedIn allows you to provide contact information. Your Contact and Personal Information is located down the right side of your profile. It looks like this:

Click "show more" and you're in. This is a good place to put your personal email address and your cell phone number.
6. Summary Section
The Summary section is an area where you can write a narrative of your background, experience, and achievements. This is a biographical description of your career, so keep the content professionally relevant and use keywords. It appears directly below your name and location.
To edit or create a Summary, click on the pencil icon in the upper right-hand corner of your profile.

There is a difference of opinion regarding how the content of this section should be presented. Some advocate that it is an opportunity for you to write in the first person and show personality.58 Others contend that it should be written in the third-person narrative. The choice is yours; however, make your decision based on how it will be best perceived by a potential hiring executive for your level of position.
Your Summary section has a significant impact on optimizing your LinkedIn profile and will be discussed at length in the pages that follow.

What the Pros Say:
How do you approach or what strategy do you use when writing the Summary section to a LinkedIn profile? And, how does it differ from the Summary section of a resume?
I tell clients to think of their summary section as an open cover letter. You need to address what your target audience is looking for and have a call to action. You should never dump your resume summary into the summary section of LinkedIn. First off, your resume summary is likely pretty short. Second it's not written in normal conversational language. Your summary on LinkedIn should be written in first person unless you are in a pretty traditional field like finance or are a high-level executive.
Michelle Robin, NCRW, CPRW
We have the ability to do so much more with a LinkedIn profile summary than we ever can with a resume summary! Resume summaries need to be quick snapshots of your career history written specifically for a particular position, industry, and company. LinkedIn summaries can be in a narrative format where you make a connection with your audience, share your story, and target your specific audience.
Jessica Hernandez, Certified Social Branding Analyst

7. Experience
This is reasonably straightforward. Think resume. Use relevant keywords. Remember that your LinkedIn profile and your resume must match in general content. According to LinkedIn, "add[ing] your two most recent work positions . . . can increase your profile views by twelve times."59 Strategic use of the Experience section will be discussed with optimization.

What the Pros Say:
What is your strategy and approach when drafting the Job Experience section?
I try to complement the resume when writing the experience section on LinkedIn. You usually have more room in LinkedIn so it's easy to expand on your accomplishments to add more context. I also use first person in the description of the job to tell the story of the person's career.
Specific advice for those in between jobs is to have what I call a "transition position." This is a current position that lists the type of role you desire (see Robin Green sample resume in my resume portfolio section). The reason to do this is LinkedIn surfaces people that have a current job higher in the search results. It also gives you an additional opportunity to sell yourself and add information you didn't put in your summary.
Michelle Robin, NCRW, CPRW
In the experience section, I believe that the most overlooked component is the job title. There is no rule that says your job title must be written exactly as it is on your resume. For example, if you are a teacher, you can create this job title: Science Teacher - Mentor - Team Leader. By including relevant descriptive keywords and providing more detail, the job title field becomes a great marketing tool for the job seeker.
Nelly Grinfeld, MBA, NCRW, CEIC

8. Education
Your education should align directly with your resume. Start with your highest degree and work backward in reverse chronological order. If you are a tenured job seeker, determine whether you want to include dates. Review the Education section of the Impactful Resumes portion of this book. LinkedIn users "who have an education on their profile receive an average of ten times more profile views than those who don't."60
Additional sections of your profile. LinkedIn has additional sections to further customize your profile. Depending on the HR recruiter or hiring executive, these areas may have an impact on their impression of you. To find these additional sections on your profile, look for a large blue box titled "Add a new profile section" that appears along the right side of your profile.

Click it and you will see an option regarding Background which will allow you to add information regarding your work experience, education, and volunteer experience. You will also see an option where you can add Skills. The last option is Accomplishments. This will give you a drop-down list that includes publications, certifications, courses, projects, honors and awards, patents, test scores, languages, and organizations. We'll discuss some of these additional sections later in this book.
9. Volunteer Experience
Many employers look favorably upon profiles of those who volunteer or are involved in civic causes—it speaks to matching the culture of the company. "In fact, according to LinkedIn, 42 percent of hiring managers surveyed said they view volunteer experience equal to formal work experience."61
10. Skills (and Endorsements)
LinkedIn allows you to list fifty skills. Be reasonably specific and don't use all fifty. You don't want a HR recruiter or hiring executive to view you as a "jack of all trades and a master of none." You may appear desperate if you list too many skills. How many skills are too many? When you feel you are starting to stretch to include a skill, you have likely reached the end. According to LinkedIn, listing five or more skills in your profile will get you up to seventeen times more profile views.62
Endorsements are a nice LinkedIn feature. They add credibility and a compelling nature to your profile as others agree with the skills you have listed (they can add others).
Endorse others. Remember, LinkedIn is a networking mechanism and a two-way street. The more you engage with others, the more they will engage with you.
11. Certifications
Listing certifications can enhance your value as a viable candidate for a position. Frequently a professional certification or designation is a significant differentiator from other job seekers.
12. Honors and Awards
List all notable honors and awards you have received, signaling to an employer that others have recognized you for your performance.
13. Organizations
Listing your memberships in professional associations can have an influence on employers because it reflects that you are in touch with and following the industry. It can also be a source of networking and education.63
14. Ask for Recommendations
Remember that having others say good things about you is better than you promoting yourself.64 "Recommendations are mini testimonials that people give you who have worked with you. You can request them via LinkedIn. It's another way to build credibility [for] you and your work. As appropriate, remember to return the favor when someone gives you a recommendation."65
Many recruiters review recommendations as part of their evaluation protocols. As a minimum goal, get at least three recommendations posted on your profile from former bosses, colleagues, customers, or vendors you've interacted with.
15. Groups
LinkedIn groups are valuable, give you a platform to be an expert in an industry or topic, and help you gain insight and knowledge. "Your profile is five times more likely to be viewed if you join and are active in groups."66
HR recruiters and hiring executives search LinkedIn, and they also interact in LinkedIn groups.67 With more than two million groups on LinkedIn,68 there is no excuse not to join a group relevant to your industry or location. Eighty-one percent of users surveyed were in at least one LinkedIn group,69 meaning hiring executives and recruiters—maybe even the one who will give you your dream job—are likely already members of, and might even be active in, a group. In a survey of LinkedIn users who found a job within three months of focused searching, 82 percent interacted with a group on LinkedIn.70
LinkedIn allows you to join one hundred groups, but only join those pertinent to your background, industry, and location. Determine a group's membership—larger ones offer more exposure. You will need to request membership to join a group.
Once you join a group, it is much easier to relate to people. You have something in common. Common ground is a good thing when starting a networking communication.
16. Other Enhancements
You can also use a variety of media to showcase your skills (video presentations including Slideshare, pictures or screenshots, and text documents). These are optional and not required to get you found by a HR recruiter or hiring executive. However, they can add credibility to your experience on the job. Upload a video if you do public speaking. If you're skilled in graphic design, showcase your portfolio. If you write, add an article or a chapter of your book. Consider adding anything unique or impactful to prove and reinforce your skills, experience, or achievements.
Introducing LinkedIn Optimization
Optimization is taking full advantage of how the LinkedIn algorithms and programming work to be discovered for what you want to be professionally known for or found for. It means effective use of your keywords, putting those keywords in the correct areas of your profile, proper use of repeating those keywords, profile completeness, adequate number of connections, and making your profile compelling. All of these elements, pulled together, optimize your LinkedIn profile for maximum effectiveness. An optimized LinkedIn profile makes you more discoverable and more desirable when a HR recruiter uses LinkedIn to find a professional with your skills and background. Since 87 percent of HR recruiters use LinkedIn to identify and recruit candidates71, having an optimized LinkedIn profile could lead you to your next career opportunity.
How Does It Work . . . How Does a HR Recruiter Use LinkedIn to Find Candidates?
There are numerous ways a HR recruiter can use LinkedIn to locate candidates. To illustrate one method, go to your LinkedIn home page or profile. Along the top, next to the LinkedIn logo, is a Search box with a spyglass.

Put the following words in that space just as written: insurance AND sales. Click the spyglass. Your results will be millions of profiles appearing on the page (and potentially a couple of job openings). The example terms used were overly broad but it gives you a concept of how a recruiter uses LinkedIn by refining search terms (keywords) to identify candidates. The purpose of this section is to teach you how to optimize your LinkedIn profile so you are one of those top candidates!
The Goal of Optimization
Now that you have a general understanding of the functionality of the LinkedIn algorithms and programming, you need to know what you are striving for by optimizing your LinkedIn profile. Your goals, in descending order are: (1) to be listed (ranked) as the number one profile on the first page (the ultimate achievement), (2) to be on the first page, and (3) to be on the first three pages.
These goals can be achieved provided you have adequate career achievements and information and you follow the instructions for optimization. Depending upon your professional circumstances, you may need to evaluate your ranking by limiting it to your city or metropolitan area.
Keyword Location
Where your keywords appear on your profile does matter. The sections listed below are the primary areas where the algorithms and programming look to match keywords.
1. Headline
2. Summary
3. Job title
4. Experience/employment descriptions
5. Skills
There are advanced platforms that can be purchased from LinkedIn that could expand this list, but these are the primary sections where the algorithms and programming match keywords.
Headline
You have 120 character spaces available to you in your headline, which is actually a lot of room. Since we know that this is a section where the algorithms and programming go to match keywords, make sure they appear here.
The headline section provides an excellent opportunity for you to create a branding statement describing yourself. What do you want to be known for or found for?72
A convenient formula that works well for many job seekers is:
[Job function or title] + [A bridge phrase or action verb (e.g., "with experience in," "with expertise in," "specializing in," or "utilizing")] + [keywords: reference to products, services, skills, industry, and so on]

For example:
"Senior Sales Executive with Experience in Workers' Compensation, Pain Management, Leadership."
Or:
"Product Development Professional Applying Behavioral Research to Health Care Technology."
Here are some real examples from LinkedIn profiles:
Sr. Sales Executive Specializing in Executive Leadership, Referenced Based Pricing, Stop Loss
Health Care Leader Skilled in Key Account Growth, Sales, Strategy, Analytics, Problem-solving, and Partnership Optimization.

When choosing keywords for your headline, use those that are skills, knowledge, products, and services you have experience with. Most HR recruiters will use keywords that are skills- or knowledge-based to identify candidates on LinkedIn. Then, during the screening process, they explore and evaluate soft skills (e.g., work ethic, communications skills, etc.). We'll mention your soft skills in just a moment in the Summary section.
This raises an interesting concept that you need to be aware of. As you build your LinkedIn profile, you occasionally need to think like a HR recruiter. What keywords would a HR recruiter or hiring executive use to find a professional like you? More often than not, the keywords you use will align with those used by a HR recruiter. However, that is not always the case. For example, some companies use the title Business Development to mean "sales." Other companies use that same title to mean marketing, branding, public relations, and so on. If you happen to have one of those titles that is not generally accepted or representative of your function, you will want to use terminology on your LinkedIn profile that is more accepted and used by a HR recruiter. The point is to double check your thinking along the way.
Summary
You have two thousand character spaces available to you for your summary73, which is a ton of room. Do not get "long winded" when writing your summary. Your summary is just that . . . a summary of your career, not an autobiography. Think of your summary as the executive summary of a white paper.74
An effective technique is to start your summary by restating your headline, word-for-word, and then expanding upon it to include other keywords that would not fit or were of secondary importance in your headline (perhaps your soft skills). Below are the "banner statements" contained in the Summary of the two Headline profile examples:

Senior Sales Executive Specializing in Executive Leadership, Referenced-Based Pricing, Stop Loss, Self-Funding, Product Distribution
Effective Health Care leader skilled in strategy, key account growth, sales, analytics, partnership optimization, team mentorship, and problem solving.

Remember, LinkedIn is looking to match keywords and tracking the number of times they appear when ranking you against other similar profiles. By restating your headline you create an introductory statement (banner) running along the top of your summary. The HR recruiter does not think twice about it but you have taken advantage of the programming by stating keywords twice between your headline and your introductory banner statement in your summary.
After your introductory banner statement, write one to three (maybe four) paragraphs that summarize your career experience so far. This will include duties, responsibilities, and your keywords. As you write, be aware that this paragraph(s) must read smoothly. A good approach is to write the paragraph(s), then insert keywords as appropriate. It's also a good technique to write your summary paragraph(s)—and other sections—in a Word document and then copy and paste it into the appropriate section. This way misspellings and grammar errors will be caught. This is important. A survey conducted by Jobvite indicated that 72 percent of HR recruiters view typos negatively on social media.75
The next component of your Summary, following your career summary paragraphs, is your career accomplishments. These are your achievements you are most proud of. Start with, "Career Accomplishments Include:", then list your top three or four. If you are not sure whether to include a particular achievement, hedge toward not including it. You want these achievements to be your best ones.
This discussion on accomplishments fits directly into one of the tenets for optimizing your LinkedIn profile—Compelling. The concept of "compelling" will be woven throughout the rest of this discussion as we address other topics and strategies.
Once you have your accomplishments listed in your Summary section, either use the programming on your computer or go to the Internet and copy and paste an icon and place it in front of each of your accomplishments. When choosing an icon, choose something dark, like a bullet-point • or a black diamond ◆. These dark icons draw the eye of HR recruiters and highlight your achievements in their minds. Whatever icon you select, use it consistently throughout your profile. Using different icons makes your profile look jumbled or gaudy. Here are a couple of examples that appear in the Summary section of some profiles:
Career Achievements include:
• Implemented cost-saving strategies throughout a variety of initiatives resulting in a cost savings over $1 million.
Career Achievements include:
• Recipient of 20XX Female Executives Award.
• Developed and executed business development, marketing and sales plan that yielded 30 percent year-over-year growth.
• Marketed and sold new business to large employers, generating 30 percent of the overall company revenue.
• One of six senior managers who re-engineered corporate-wide business practices resulting in savings of more than $13 million.
Finally, at the end of your summary, provide your personal email address and cell phone number. This is a good strategy because people that are not connected to you cannot see your Contact and Personal Information.76 You want to make it as easy as possible for a HR recruiter to contact you. Providing this information at the end of your Summary makes it easy to do so.
Job Title
The Job Title area of your employment background is where LinkedIn looks for matching keywords. You have one hundred character spaces for your title.77 If you have a title that is unique to your company, make sure to also include a more descriptive terminology so the HR recruiter can determine your actual function.
Experience
This is your employment history and it is a section where you should use your keywords heavily. For each employer, write one or two paragraphs describing your duties, responsibilities, product knowledge, distribution, territories, target markets, and so on. Use your keywords. Beneath the paragraph(s), put: "Achievements" or "Accomplishments" then, like you did in your Summary, list the important accomplishments you achieved in that position. This approach informs the HR recruiter of what your duties and responsibilities were and that you were successful in the role.
INCREASED SALES:
• 141 percent in 2016 over prior year
• 197 percent in 2015 over prior year
• 179 percent in 2014 over prior year
Follow this formula for each employment going back fifteen to twenty years. In your Experience section, your career-level accomplishments listed in your Summary will appear again under the employment from which they occurred. This is fine. It is recommended to put your dark icon in front of each accomplishment like you did in your Summary.
Skills
List your keywords as skills, when appropriate. According to LinkedIn, the number of times you are endorsed for a skill has no weight on how many times the algorithms and programming recognize that particular keyword. In other words, having thirty people endorse you for a skill (keyword) does not mean the algorithms sees that keyword appearing thirty times on your profile. We will discuss an advanced technique using your Skills section in a moment.
Keyword Stuffing
Keyword stuffing is abusively overusing your keywords throughout your profile to increase your ranking.78 It's a strategy designed to game the system. Sadly, this is a strategy too often suggested by some LinkedIn profile writers and career coaches. According to discussions with LinkedIn customer service, the algorithms and programming are now designed to detect this strategy and can reduce your ranking.
The better approach (and the one promoted in this book), is to construct a profile using accepted and common-sense optimization strategies that present your professional background and experience in a sincere manner to make the most positive impression possible on the HR recruiter.
This finishes the discussion regarding the first tenet of optimizing your LinkedIn profile regarding keywords. We will now move the discussion to the next tenet of optimization—Completeness.
Completeness
The more complete your LinkedIn profile is, the higher it will rank compared to other profiles. According to LinkedIn, "Only 50.5 percent of people have a 100 percent completed LinkedIn profile."79 Consequently, by having a complete profile you can outrank many other competing profiles.
Profile completeness is important. The LinkedIn algorithms and programming display search results (how you rank compared to other profiles) based on the following:
1. Profile completeness
2. The number of shared connections
3. Connections by degree (1st, 2nd, and so on)
4. Groups in common
Profile completeness is the "trump card" with the LinkedIn algorithms and programming.80 The other factors of ranking do not matter if your profile is not complete. If you need a refresher on what constitutes a complete profile, here are the components:
• Your location (and industry)
• A current position (with a description)
• Two past positions
• Your education
• Your skills (minimum of three)
• A profile photo
• At least fifty connections81
You are already well down the road to completeness as you work on your profile using keywords. However, LinkedIn has additional sections that can be added to your profile beyond those that are most commonly used. They include:
• Volunteering Experience
• Publications
• Certifications (Professional Designations)
• Courses
• Projects
• Honors and Awards
• Patents
• Test Scores
• Language
• Contact and Personal Information
• Organizations (Professional Associations and Affiliations)
• Posts
Volunteering Experience, Organizations
There are a couple of considerations regarding these sections. First, volunteering experience is favorably viewed by employers, but it must be substantive. Standing behind the card table selling brownies at the Cub Scout meeting doesn't count. However, being a volunteer Red Cross first responder does. Second, avoid referencing any organization or cause that could be viewed as controversial. This generally means anything regarding politics, religion, race, and so on. Of course there are exceptions if your career is in politics, religion, and race relations.
Honors and Awards
It is perfectly acceptable to restate your accomplishments and achievements in the Honors and Awards section. This is especially true if the achievement resulted in an award. Repetition of your achievements affirms in the mind of the HR recruiter that you are a well-qualified job seeker.
Language
If you live in the United States and English is your native language, do not list it. It is assumed that you are fluent. This section is used for foreign languages.
Personal Details
Avoid providing any personal information that would be inappropriate for a HR recruiter to ask about in an interview. Marital status and year of birth are two notable ones.
Connections
The more connections you have, the better the probability you will rank higher than other profiles.82 Your ranking is, in part, influenced by how closely connected you are to a HR recruiter (or anyone else looking). The difficult part is you have no idea who could be looking on LinkedIn and how closely connected you are to them.
The best strategy to combat against or take advantage of this connection factor is to increase your connections and join industry-relevant groups. Try to get connected to as many professionally relevant people as possible. These are professionals that can hire you or help you. This includes colleagues and peers at other organizations such as clients, vendors, competitors, and so on. If you want to work for a particular company, seek connections within that company. Strive to get a minimum of five hundred connections (possibly more depending upon your professional circumstances). The more connections you have, the higher the probability that you will be more closely connected to the HR recruiter who is searching on LinkedIn. The closer the connection, the higher you will appear in the ranking of profiles.
You are allowed to join up to one hundred groups on LinkedIn.83 Since your ranking is influenced by the number of common groups you have with a HR recruiter, it is very important to join relevant and well-populated groups.
Fully appreciate that your network has value and is an area of evaluation when a hiring executive or HR recruiter looks at your profile. An evaluation of the number of contacts in and the quality of your network creates a "Network Value Score." By analogy, it's like your credit score when applying for a mortgage. The higher your Network Value Score, the more valuable you become as a quality candidate for the position.
If you are new to LinkedIn or have been inactive, work to get five hundred connections. The number of connections you have appears on your profile until you exceed five hundred. After that, it appears as "500+." You want HR recruiters and hiring executives viewing your profile to conclude that you have a network of professional colleagues. It can add to your professional value as a candidate. If you're staying within your field, some hiring executives will see how many common connections you have—the more the better. Some hiring executives will reach out to these connections and inquire about you. Hence this is another good reason to stay active with your network.
Compelling
A profile is compelling when it intellectually or emotionally moves the HR recruiter to contact you. There are several factors that can make a profile compelling. They include: your knowledge and skills, accomplishments, endorsements, recommendations, the overall appearance and completeness of your profile, and anything else that makes you unique in the eyes of the HR recruiter.
Your profile can be compelling based on your knowledge and skills. You know things or have done things in your career that a HR recruiter is looking for or is impressed by. You have experience and a skillset in need by the HR recruiter. This can range from knowing and having experience with a particular software program to having Profit and Loss (P&L) experience with a large organization. There are thousands if not millions of qualifications a HR recruiter could look for that are knowledge- or skill-based.
Documented accomplishments are clearly compelling. The most influential accomplishments are those that can be quantified with numbers, percentages, dollars signs, savings (in time and money), and the list goes on. Accomplishments can heavily influence a HR recruiter to contact you. Your accomplishments communicate that you are good at what you do.
The number of endorsements you have for a sought-after skill can influence the compelling nature of your profile. If a HR recruiter finds a profile with 99+ endorsements for a sought-after skill or experience, it is a clear indication that the professional could be a qualified candidate.
An advanced technique is to list one professional character trait you possess as a skill. Examples are work ethic, perseverance, honesty, and so on. Then, get as many connections to endorse you for that character trait as possible. Having a professional character trait listed as a skill and an adequate number of endorsements for it is a differentiator from other profiles and will get noticed by a HR recruiter. Endorsements for a sought-after character trait open the door to what kind of person/professional you are as seen through the eyes of others.
Recommendations can also make your profile compelling. Once your profile is identified as a "probable" qualified candidate by a HR recruiter, the number and content of the recommendations can influence the HR recruiter to contact you. As a general rule of thumb, try to get three positive recommendations for each employer going back to at least two to three employers.
And finally, the overall completeness and appearance of your profile can be a compelling factor. There are millions of well-qualified job seekers who fail to appreciate the career-enhancing power of a LinkedIn profile. Potentially life-changing opportunities pass those people by through their failure to have a complete and professionally appearing LinkedIn profile. However, to your benefit, you will have a complete, professional, and compelling profile that will open your career to opportunities that others will not have (or ever know about).
Put It to the Test
After you have revised your profile and optimized it, put it to the test. Get on LinkedIn and run a search for yourself. Put in one keyword or phrase that you are using in your profile along with your title in the Search field at the top of your profile.

You may need to further limit the criteria by location. For example, "Regional Sales Director" AND Telemedicine AND Dallas. How did you rank? Did you appear on the first page? On the first two or three pages? Try another one of your keywords. How did that one work? If you are not coming up on the first three pages, double check to make sure you have all of the elements of a complete profile. Then, look at the profiles that appeared ahead of yours and see if you can make improvements based on what those candidates put on their profiles. Selective borrowing is permitted. Make revisions and try it again. Do what you can to improve your ranking to appear on the first page or the first three pages, if possible.
Understand that regardless of the revisions you make and the optimizing strategies you use, you may only be able to improve your ranking so much. Don't get frustrated. You can only do what you can with the algorithms based on the information in your profile. But, whatever you do, don't go overboard! Your profile must still appear professional and informative. Optimizing is a great strategy and it will improve your ranking, but creating an awkward-looking profile for ranking purposes defeats the ultimate objective . . . impressing a HR recruiter or hiring executive.

What the Pros Say:
In your opinion, what strategies do you use to make a LinkedIn profile compelling or persuasive?
The primary tool for doing so is to make sure the profile is achievement-driven. A profile that is rich in achievements will communicate value to recruiters and hiring managers. In addition, I focus on writing short, impactful content and using the limited formatting elements LinkedIn allows to optimize visual branding.
Cheryl Lynch Simpson, CMRW, ACRW, COPNS
While a resume shows the reader who you are, LinkedIn is an opportunity for the reader to hear your voice. Therefore I work to capture the client's personality relevant to the industry they are targeting.
Virginia Franco, NCRW, CPRW

Strategies for Your LinkedIn Profile When You are Unemployed
If you are unemployed, what do you put on your LinkedIn Profile? Do you announce your availability or would doing so reduce your attractiveness as a candidate? Fortunately, you have several strategic options.
As you consider the options that follow, the primary consideration is this: How would a HR recruiter or hiring executive react to the strategy you use for the level of position you are seeking? After we discuss the strategic options, we'll discuss factors that could influence your decision on which strategic approach to take.
Put an End Date on Your Last Employment. Your first option is to list an end date on your current employment. It's honest and your profile is up-to-date. HR recruiters will draw the conclusion that you are currently unemployed.
Announce Your Unemployment in Your Headline. As you know, the headline is the area immediately below your name. It is acceptable to use your headline as an advertisement of your availability: "Currently Seeking New Opportunities," or "In Transition," among others.
However, there is a more effective approach since the LinkedIn algorithms and programming searches the Headline for keywords. Create your Headline with your keywords and include "Seeking New Opportunities." For example, "Banking Professional Specializing in Commercial Lending, Seeking New Opportunities." This strategy capitalizes on your keywords and announces your availability.
Announce Your Availability as a Statement in Your Summary Section. Another option is to include a statement of your availability early in your Summary section. Your statement could be as simple as "Actively Seeking New Employment."
As you recall, your Summary section is also an area where the LinkedIn programming and algorithms look to match keywords. There is a strategic advantage of adding a sentence or two with keywords about position types, industries, and types of companies that would interest you. For example, "Actively seeking a new opportunity as an account manager in the employee benefits industry." This can help tighten your search but be aware that it can also reduce potential opportunities. After you make this statement, continue with the rest of the Summary in a traditional fashion.
List Your Availability as Your Current Employment. The LinkedIn programming and algorithms look at position titles and position descriptions for matching keywords. So simply putting "Open to Opportunities" as your title does not take advantage of the programming. A better approach is stating an actual title or job function followed by "Seeking New Position." For example, "Sales Operations Professional Specializing in Health Care Seeking New Position." You have one hundred character spaces in the title area which should give you ample room to use this strategy. You could reword your headline and put it here as well.
For the Company Name, you can put "Unemployed." But, that sometimes can carry a negative stigma—though the weight of that stigma has faded in recent years. Instead, consider a more positive approach, such as putting "Exploring a Career Move," "Seeking New Position," or "In Transition" as your current employer.
Your position description provides some unique opportunities. If you resigned from your previous employment, the first sentence of your description could read something like this:

"Currently seeking a new position after voluntarily leaving [Past Employer] in good standing with recommendations."
Or,
"Actively looking for a new job in event planning after resigning my position at [Past Employer] with strong job performance evaluations."
If you were laid off, you could state the description something like this:
"Was subject to a company-wide layoff affecting [XX number employees, the entire marketing department, X number of departments]. Release was not performance-related."

If you were terminated for performance, it's probably best to leave that unspoken and use the position description space for other strategies.
For the rest of the job description space, create the messaging that puts you in the best light. According to LinkedIn, there is now a two-hundred-character minimum and a two-thousand-character maximum in the position description area.84
The content of the position description could be a brief statement of your abilities and knowledge, using keywords. It could function as an abbreviated cover letter. You could also rework your elevator speech (if you use one as part of your overall job search) and put it here. The key consideration is to use the space wisely, not be lengthy, and consider how a HR recruiter would react to what you write. When pulled together, it could look something like this:

Title: Account Manager Seeking Opportunities in Employee Benefits
Company: Exploring A Career Move
Description: Was subject to a company-wide layoff affecting over one hundred employees at [Past Employer]. Release was not performance-related.
Seeking an account management position to benefit an insurance organization with proven skills in client service, ACA compliance, implementation, renewals, and claim resolution. (Then customize the content based on your best judgment.)

Be a Consultant. You can list your current employment as consulting and your title as a consultant. Taking this approach is accepted "code" that you are unemployed but doing consulting projects to stay active and engaged.
The key to this strategy is the use of your keywords. Knowing that the LinkedIn programming and algorithms look at position titles, describe your title using keywords. For example:

"Security Technology Consultant"
Or,
"Workers' Compensation Cost-Containment Consultant"

You can also shorten and manipulate the wording of your headline (you have one hundred character spaces).
For company name, many use their last name or initials followed by "Consulting." You have a lot of latitude for the name of your consulting practice, just be professional in the naming.
Your professional description should contain your keywords, as previously discussed. This will help you when a HR recruiter or hiring executive searches for you.
Do Nothing At All. The final option is do nothing at all and if asked about your profile, go with "I forgot." This is not ideal, but the option is available to you.
Which Strategy Would Be Best for You?
The correct strategy(ies) depends on your unique professional circumstances. You may choose a select combination of approaches.
If you work in an industry where it is common to hire on a project basis, contractor-to-hire, or consulting basis, announcing your availability using these strategies makes sense.
The level of your position or positioning on the corporate organizational chart for the position you are pursuing also has an influence on your strategy. Generally, these "announcement" strategies may be more acceptable to lower- to mid-range sales and management roles rather than true senior management or C-Level positions. The size of the organization you are targeting could be a consideration as well. Smaller, more entrepreneurial organizations may be more receptive to the announcement strategies. Exercise your professional judgment as to whether or which strategy(ies) to use. Your strategy hinges on how you believe a HR recruiter or hiring executive for your desired position could respond.
The Open Candidates Feature on LinkedIn
LinkedIn has a feature where you can signal recruiters that you are open to new opportunities. This feature is called "Open Candidates."
How to Access the Open Candidates Feature. To access this feature, click the "Jobs" option at the top of your LinkedIn profile.

From there you will see "Jobs you may be interested in." Close to that will be a link entitled "Update preferences." Click it.

Scroll down and begin answering the questions about location, experience, industries (LinkedIn may offer suggestions), company size, and availability. When you activate the feature you are also given an Introductory section with three hundred character spaces.
Finally, let recruiters know you're open by activating the feature to "On."
Who Can See Your Open Candidate Profile? Only recruiters who have paid for and use LinkedIn's premium "Recruiter's Platform" (prices begin at around $8,000 per license) can see that you have filled out the Open Candidates questionnaire.85 Your current employer, and its affiliates should not be able to view your Open Candidates profile. However, LinkedIn provides this disclaimer: "We take steps to not show your current company that you're open, but can't guarantee that we can identify every recruiter affiliated with your company."
Naturally, if you are unemployed, there is no risk. Even if you are employed, the risk of discovery is reasonably small. Besides, it is not illegal, immoral, or unethical to be open to a new job that can enhance your career experience. Most employers know that the job market is a free-agency market. Employees, especially today, look to maximize their career experience and that can mean pursuing new jobs when the time is right (this includes your boss and other senior executives of your current and former employers).
Strategies for Using the Open Candidate Feature. For most job seekers, using the Open Candidates feature is a good idea. Recruiters can screen potential candidates not only based on qualifications, but to those that are open to new opportunities. This shortens their work and can place you toward the top of their contact list! According to LinkedIn, "open candidates" are more likely to be contacted by recruiters86. Use the Introductory section of the questionnaire to emphasize skills/background and accomplishments. Remember, you only have three hundred character spaces so you have to be succinct. For example:

"Account management professional seeking a position with a health insurance organization with proven skills in client service, ACA compliance, implementation, renewals, and claim resolution. Promoted three times, 95 percent client retention, recognized with client services award, have client recommendations."

If you are unemployed, there is virtually no reason for not using this feature. The only rare consideration (employed or unemployed) would be perception based on the level of position you are seeking. Would a senior-level hiring executive, board of director, or possibly a retainer-only search firm pause to reach out to you because you are an Open Candidate on LinkedIn? Very unlikely (hopefully), but it is worth a moment of thought.
Measuring the Effectiveness of Your LinkedIn Profile
Having a complete profile, implementing optimization strategies, and making your profile compelling are necessary steps to maximizing the use of your LinkedIn profile in your job search. But the true effectiveness of your profile is the number of views it gets. If you are in a full-blown, active job search utilizing all the tools at your disposal, one measure of success is getting a minimum of twenty profile views a week. This is not a scientific number but rather a minimum threshold number to use as a benchmark for the effectiveness of your LinkedIn profile.
You can track the number of views from your profile page—look for "Who's viewed your profile" that appears on your Profile page.

What Do You Do with Your LinkedIn Profile after You Get a New Job?
Once you land a new job, you have a couple of choices with your LinkedIn profile. First, you can create your Experience section in the same fashion as previously instructed.
There is another approach to consider. Understand the construction of your profile has been focused on you. It has been written to showcase you as a professional with the purpose of a job search. When you get a new job, you may want to shift that focus to your new employer. This is achieved by putting a paragraph in your current employment section that describes the company, its products, services, value proposition, etc. You can often get this information from the company website or company LinkedIn page.
After you insert the company description, follow the same advice as previously instructed with a paragraph about your duties and responsibilities. Remember to list your accomplishments as they occur.
Keep Your Profile Current
Update your information and keep it current so it doesn't appear stale. According to LinkedIn, keeping your positions up to date on your profile makes you eighteen times more likely to be found in searches by recruiters and other members.87
LinkedIn is a dynamic site that changes frequently, adding some features and functionality and taking others away. Be aware of the programming changes and their possible implications for your profile use.
Sample of an Optimized LinkedIn Profile
Once you have implemented all of the optimization strategies, your LinkedIn profile should look similar to the sample profile that follows.








42 Knyszweski, Jerome. "How to Use LinkedIn as a Student—And Nail That Dream Job," LinkedIn Pulse, April 28, 2015, https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/how-use-linkedin-student-nail-dream-job-jerome-knyszewski (accessed May 28, 2015).
43 Smith, Craig. "133 Amazing LinkedIn Statistics." Last updated November 17, 2016, http://expandedramblings.com/index.php/by-the-numbers-a-few-important-linkedin-stats/. (accessed November 28, 2016). See also, Smith, Craig, DMR, "200+ Amazing LinkedIn Stats" (Last Checked/Updated October 2016) http://expandedramblings.com/index.php/by-the-numbers-a-few-important-linkedin-stats/ (downloaded November 28, 2016).
44 "About LinkedIn," LinkedIn Newsroom, https://press.linkedin.com/about-linkedin (accessed May 29, 2015).
45 Geoff, "Top LinkedIn Facts and Stats [Infographic]," (blog), We Are Social Media, July 25, 2014, http://wersm.com/top-linkedin-facts-andstats-infographic/ (accessed May 29, 2015).
46 Jobvite 2016 Recruiter National Survey www.jobvite.com (accessed November 17, 2016).
47 Ibid. See also, Smith, Craig, DMR, "200+ Amazing LinkedIn Stats" (Last Checked/Updated October 2016) http://expandedramblings.com/index.php/by-the-numbers-a-few-important-linkedin-stats/ (downloaded November 28, 2016). This source indicates that 94 percent of recruiters use LinkedIn to vet candidates.
48 Foote, Andy, Why You Should Complete Your LinkedIn Profile, (December 7, 2015). https://www.linkedinsights.com/why-you-shouldcomplete-your-linkedin-profile/ (accessed November 22, 2016).
49 Ibid.
50 Reynolds, Marci. "How to Be Found More Easily in LinkedIn (LinkedIn SEO)," Job-Hunt.org, http://www.job-hunt.org/social-networking/be-found-on-linkedin.shtml (accessed June 4, 2015).
51 Stephanie Frasco, "11 Tips To Help Optimize Your LinkedIn Profile For Maximum Exposure and Engagement," Convert with Content (blog), https://www.convertwithcontent.com/11-tips-optimize-linkedin-profile-maximum-exposure-engagement/ (accessed June 10, 2015).
52 Smith, Jacquelyn. "The Complete Guide To Crafting A Perfect LinkedIn Profile," Business Insider, January 21, 2015, http://www.businessinsider.com/guide-to-perfect-linkedin-profile-2015-1 (accessed June 4, 2015).
53 Smith, Craig, DMR, "200+ Amazing LinkedIn Stats" (Last Checked/Updated October 2016) http://expandedramblings.com/index.php/by-the-numbers-a-few-important-linkedin-stats/ (downloaded November 28, 2016).
54 PhotoFeeler."New Research Study Breaks Down The Perfect Profile Photo, PhotoFeeler, May 13, 2014 https://blog.photofeeler.com/perfect-photo/ (accessed November 7, 2016).
55 Isaacson, Nate. "Professional Designations Are Great But They Are Not A Part of Your Name," LinkedIn Pulse, April 14, 2014, https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/20140414223601-23236063-professional-designations-are-great-but-they-are-not-a-part-of-your-name (accessed July 16, 2015); Hanson, Arik. "Should You Put MBA Behind Your Name on Your LinkedIn Profile?" LinkedIn Pulse, May 29, 2014, https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/20140529131058-18098999-should-you-put-mba-behind-your-name-on-your-linkedin-profile (accessed July 17, 2015).
56 Whitcomb, Job Search Magic, p. 68.
57 "10 Tips for the Perfect LinkedIn Profile," LinkHumans, Slideshare, published July 1, 2014, http://www.slideshare.net/linkedin/10-tips-for-the-perfect-linkedin-profile (accessed November 11, 2015).
58 Smith, Jacquelyn. "Here's What To Say In Your LinkedIn 'Summary' Statement," Business Insider, December 19, 2014, http://www.businessinsider.com/what-to-say-in-your-linkedin-summary-statement-2014-12 (accessed July 9, 2015).
59 Daniel Ayele, "Land Your Dream Job in 2015 with These Data-Proven LinkedIn Tips," LinkedIn Blog, January 29, 2015, http://blog.linkedin.com/2015/01/29/jobseeking-tips/ (accessed June 9, 2015).
60 LinkHumans, "10 Tips." See also, Smith, Craig, DMR, "200+ Amazing LinkedIn Stats" (last Checked/Updated October 2016) http://expandedramblings.com/index.php/by-the-numbers-a-few-important-linkedin-stats/ (downloaded November 28, 2016). This source indicates that 65 percent of job postings on LinkedIn require a bachelor's degree.
61 Dougherty, Lisa. "16 Tips to Optimize Your LinkedIn Profile and Your Personal Brand," LinkedIn Pulse, July 8, 2014, https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/20140708162049-7239647-16-tips-to-optimize-your-linkedin-profile-and-enhance-your-personal-brand (accessed November 11, 2015).
62 Smith, Craig, DMR, "200+ Amazing LinkedIn Stats" (Last Checked/Updated October 2016) http://expandedramblings.com/index.php/by-the-numbers-a-few-important-linkedin-stats/ (downloaded November 28, 2016).
63 Yate, Knock 'em Dead, p. 86.
64 Matt, "Brag Book."
65 Frasco, "11 Tips."
66 LinkHumans, "10 Tips."
67 Lindsey Pollak, "How to Attract Employers' Attention on LinkedIn," LinkedIn Blog, December 2, 2010, http://blog.linkedin.com/2010/12/02/findjobs-on-linkedin/ (accessed June 4, 2015).
68 Arruda, William. "Is LinkedIn Poised To Be The Next Media Giant?" Forbes, March 8, 2015, http://www.forbes.com/sites/williamarruda/2015/03/08/is-linkedin-poised-to-be-the-next-media-giant/ (accessed June 5, 2015).
69 Pamela Vaughan, "81% of LinkedIn Users Belong to a LinkedIn Group [Data]," Hubspot Blogs, August 11, 2011, http://blog.hubspot.com/blog/tabid/6307/bid/22364/81-of-LinkedIn-Users-Belong-to-a-LinkedIn-Group-Data.aspx (accessed June 8, 2015).
70 Shreya Oswal, "7 Smart Habits of Successful Job Seekers [INFOGRAPHIC]," LinkedIn Blog, March 19, 2014, http://blog.linkedin.com/2014/03/19/7-smart-habits-of-successful-job-seekers-infographic/ (accessed June 9, 2015).
71 Jobvite 2016 Recruiter National Survey www.jobvite.com (accessed February 4, 2017).
72 See, Whitcomb, Susan Britton. Job Search Magic: Insider Secrets from America's Career and Life Coach. (Indianapolis, IN: JIST Works, 2006), p. 68.
73 Foote, Andy, Maximum LinkedIn Character Counts for 2016, December 10, 2016 https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/maximum-linkedin-character-counts-2016-andy-foote (accessed November 22, 2016).
74 See, Kolowich, Lindsay, What is a White Paper, June 27, 2014 http://blog.hubspot.com/marketing/what-is-whitepaper-faqs#sm.0000lbm5cb9ke7e11nu1h1l4e63aj (accessed November 22, 2016).
75 Jobvite 2016 Recruiter National Survey www.jobvite.com (accessed November 17, 2016).
76 Pearcemarch, Kyle, SEO for LinkedIn: How to Optimize Your LinkedIn Profile for Search (March 19, 2015) https://www.diygenius.com/how-tooptimize-your-linkedin-profile-for-search/ (accessed November 22, 2016).
77 Foote, Andy, Maximum LinkedIn Character Counts for 2016, December 10, 2016 https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/maximum-linkedin-character-counts-2016-andy-foote (accessed November 22, 2016).
78 See, Practices to Avoid When Optimizing Your Profile For LinkedIn Search. https://www.linkedin.com/help/linkedin/answer/51499/practices-to-avoid-when-optimizing-your-profile-for-linkedin-search?lang=en (accessed November 23, 2016).
79 Foote, Andy, Why You Should Complete Your LinkedIn Profile, (December 7, 2015). https://www.linkedinsights.com/why-you-shouldcomplete-your-linkedin-profile/ (accessed November 22, 2016).
80 Ibid. ("Profile Completeness is a trump card in the search engine.")
81 Ibid.
82 Pearcemarch, Kyle, SEO for LinkedIn: How to Optimize Your LinkedIn Profile for Search (March 19, 2015) https://www.diygenius.com/how-tooptimize-your-linkedin-profile-for-search/ (accessed November 22, 2016).
83 General Limits for LinkedIn Groups, https://www.linkedin.com/help/linkedin/answer/190/general-limits-for-linkedin-groups?lang=en (accessed November 23, 2016).
84 Foote, Andy, Maximum LinkedIn Character Counts for 2016, December 10, 2016 https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/maximum-linkedin-character-counts-2016-andy-foote (accessed November 22, 2016).
85 Uzialko, Adam, LinkedIn's Open Candidates: How to Search for a New Job, Quietly, October 6, 2016, http://www.businessnewsdaily.com/9468-linkedin-open-candidates.html (accessed November 25, 2016).
86 Bell, Karissa, LinkedIn will now help you secretly tell recruiters you want a new job , October 6, 2016, http://mashable.com/2016/10/06/linkedintell-recruiters-you-want-a-new-job.amp (accessed November 7, 2016).
87 Smith, Craig, DMR, "200+ Amazing LinkedIn Stats" (Last Checked/Updated October 2016) http://expandedramblings.com/index.php/by-the-numbers-a-few-important-linkedin-stats/ (downloaded November 28, 2016).







Part IV
Cover Letters and Other Written Communications
Dost thou love life? Then do not squander time, for that is the stuff life is made of.
— Benjamin Franklin88
Some employers focus on a cover letter, while others will bypass it and go straight to the resume. If the resume is strong, some employers will then go back and read the cover letter or cover email. Regardless of how an employer treats the letter, make sure you invest an appropriate amount of time writing a well-thought-out cover letter. A well-written cover letter immediately begins to differentiate you from other job seekers by highlighting strong points in your background and provides a sample of your writing ability. A well-written letter can also serve as a customizable template for different job opportunities.89
Types of Cover Letters
In general, cover letters fall under three categories:
A letter of application is used to match a specific employment position.
A letter of inquiry is written (frequently to HR) when you are exploring whether the employer may have a possible open position within the company.
A marketing letter (or email) is written to quickly grab the hiring executive's attention. The goal of this "attack" strategy is to showcase your qualifications and create enough interest so the hiring executive reads your resume and engages you in conversation. You are proactively marketing yourself directly to a potential hiring executive who could likely hire you for the position you seek.
The Cover Letter Success Formula
The kind of cover letter doesn't matter: getting your cover letter read increases the odds that your resume will be read. Be concise. With your cover letter (as well as all your written communications), proofreading is mandatory. Executives are reading not only for content, but for sentence structure and how you express your thoughts. Spelling or grammar errors broadcast that you don't pay attention to detail, or are careless. Have someone who's unfamiliar with your letter read it. You could also let your writing sit overnight. Some claim that reading it backward helps. And when it comes time to send your letters, don't send the same one to every executive. Having a template is fine, but customize each one. And don't mention salary, compensation, or benefits in a cover letter.
To maximize your effectiveness when writing cover letters, use the following approach, which has proven effective over the course of time:
• Create interest (first sentence)
• Match
• Showcase an accomplishment/qualification
• Provide additional information
• Close
Here's an in-depth look at how to do this:
Create interest
You must quickly get the attention and interest of the employer. Personalizing the letter with their name (found by searching LinkedIn or the company website, or calling the company) will go a long way. Adding a "RE:" line (meaning "regarding") lets the executive know what your letter is about and the position you're interested in. Generating interest increases the time the executive will spend on your letter. All too often, people do the opposite by beginning their letters with something similar to:

I am writing you today regarding any potential need you may have for a director of operations. I believe I have the qualifications you are looking for.

This type of opening sentence is ineffective. Some better examples are:
• Mention a personal or professional referral. Our mutual friend, Peter Huggins, suggested that I reach out to you. Mentioning a common acquaintance is one of the most effective ways to capture a reader 's attention.
• Come out swinging with one of your top achievements. For the last four years I have been ranked as one of my company's top ten sales representatives for overall sales production.
• Identify yourself by a unique or highly sought-after skill or knowledge base. I am a software engineer with a Microsoft Master's Certificate and five CCIEs from Cisco.
• Refer to a statistic. According to the most recent polling, 43 percent of small businesses will explore private healthcare exchanges for their company's health insurance needs, up from 21 percent just a year ago.
• Offer to solve a business problem. If you need to decrease your company's operating expenses by 20 percent, without layoffs, I have a track record of doing just that.
• Ask a relevant business question. Have you found it difficult to increase company revenues during this economic downturn? If so, that is my specialty.
• Mention a recent company event or a news release that is significant. Congratulations on your acquisition of Plate Co., Inc. I understand this could increase your market share significantly.
• Use a quotation. Jeremy Johnson of the American Marketing Association recently found that redefining target markets can increase effectiveness by almost double.
• Cite a relevant industry trend. It is a well-known fact that health care reform is causing a silent exodus of tenured physicians from private practice. I have a track record of recruiting these doctors to onsite clinics.

What the Pros Say:
What technique do you use to quickly capture the attention of the reader of a cover letter?
I don't have any set formula or strategy. Every letter is different. However, some of my favorite openings have been to start the letter with a quote: either a famous quote that encapsulates my client's brand or a quote taken from a referral letter that a peer or former boss has written. I will also often start with a particularly compelling story from the client's past that I know will pique the interest of the reader. Or, another of my favorite openings is to use some compelling piece of research that clearly reflects the most compelling "problem" of the relevant industry, then immediately shift to a focus on how the client is the most qualified person to solve that problem.
Michelle Dumas, NCRW, CPRW

Match
After you have the hiring executive's attention, hold it by briefly identifying your function, which must match one the company already has, even using their exact wording, if possible. Consider using the word cloud technique discussed earlier. "Matching" makes you relevant and encourages the hiring executive to read on. Here are a couple of example phrases:

As an industrial engineer with over fifteen years of manufacturing experience . . .
I am a senior-level account management professional with a specialty in wellness and care management . . .

Depending on your writing style, this matching statement could be placed at the end of the "create interest" paragraph, added as the first sentence of the "showcase" paragraph, or be a short paragraph by itself.
Showcase an accomplishment/qualification
The accomplishment paragraph is even more important after interest is created and you have matched a known company role. Make this paragraph noticeable by using bold lettering (use it sparingly) to focus the executive on key points, but do not repeat your resume. Make your accomplishments relevant by identifying the position's most important requirements, link your qualifications to them, and then show your accomplishments in each or most of the job functions. In other words, tell a prospective employer you can do the job and you have a track record of doing it well. These "showcase" techniques can also help to get your resume read.
If you want to pursue job opportunities as a director of operations (just as an illustration), start with your Master Job Description, combined with research on similar open positions (or a job description from the employer). You may find a job description like this:

Director of Operations
Candidate must have at least ten years' experience managing multisite locations. Individual will have experience with the following: process management systems, personnel management, performance improvement, and emergency response plans.

So, when writing your cover letter, use the exact wording to demonstrate your skills in the listed job requirements. This paragraph of your cover letter could look like this (important portions in bold for clarification):

In the last fifteen years, I have worked as a director of operations for three manufacturers in the plastics industry. During my most recent position at See Through Plastics, LLC, I had success in the following areas:

• Managed four manufacturing facilities in four separate regions of the country. Exceeded production and profit goals for the last five consecutive years.
• Designed and implemented a process management system that resulted in improved production efficiency by 32 percent and increased product output by 20 percent.
• Created a workplace accountability matrix with floor supervisors that decreased absenteeism of workers by 15 percent while improving productivity per worker by 21 percent.
• Worked with company auditor to develop an auditing system that revealed resource and time inefficiencies. Program saved 12 percent on resource orders in the first year and reduced fulfillment time by over 20 percent.
• Worked with safety consulting firm to create and implement a state-of-the-art emergency response plan for catastrophic events and business interruption. Plan has been duplicated by other manufacturers.
To keep your letter concise, only use bulleted items that address the position's most important requirements. In the above example, the job seeker may only use two or three of the five accomplishments.
Occasionally (although rare), there will be unique situations where accomplishments can be less important. This occurs when you may be one of relatively few in your field or area with a certain skill, certification, or knowledge that becomes an important element of your candidacy. Showcase your unique qualification in this paragraph.

What the Pros Say:
What makes a cover letter persuasive or impactful?
Clearly indicating the qualities and talents that the job seeker will bring to the position to benefit the employer—mentioning that additional qualifications will be found in the resume—and having a call to action in the closing paragraph makes a cover letter persuasive and impactful.
Beate Hait, CPRW, NCRW
As with the resume, when writing a letter, you have to understand your audience and write to very clearly and succinctly address their concerns. Additionally, the letter should be personal and let the reader know that you are writing specifically to them, not just sending some template letter that you have sent to one hundred others.
Michelle Dumas, NCRW, CPRW

Provide additional information
In the following paragraphs of the letter, elaborate on your experience, skills, background, and achievements. This is where you have a fair amount of latitude on what you want to showcase. Choose those topics you feel are the most relevant or impressive to the employer. Once again, inform the employer what you did, in addition to how this produced positive results.90

I am a motivated sales professional with a positive track record of opening new territories. At Ins. Company, I took over a three-state, virgin territory with no sales or business contacts. I researched and identified broker-dealers, set appointments, traveled, and made sales presentations. Within the first year, I generated over $1.2M in product and exceeded sales goals by over 300 percent.

Another approach is to add a strong recommendation. This paragraph should be indented and single-spaced. To realize this technique's full impact, identify the person providing the recommendation by name and title. Here's an example:

My supervisor, Susan J. Smith, Director of Operations, Cyban, Inc. states: Sandra has a strong work ethic. She is organized, resourceful, and can work successfully without supervision. She is flexible and will roll up her sleeves to get the job done!

Remember, it is always more influential when others speak well of you than when you promote yourself.91
Another technique you can use in this section is to reveal a professional insight about yourself to personalize the letter. It must be something relevant or important to the employer. This paragraph can start with a phrase such as: "I am passionate about . . . ", "I am professionally rewarded when . . . ", "I continue to be intrigued by . . . ", and so on. For example:

I am passionate about wellness. I get a great deal of satisfaction knowing that the wellness services I promote to clients will have a personal impact on the health and well-being of that employer's employees.

You may choose to add some information about your personal life that could have relevance to the job. Some hiring executives occasionally want to know about you as a person as well as a professional.

I am competitive professionally as well as in my personal life. In fact, I routinely compete in local tennis tournaments . . . successfully I might add!

Use these paragraphs to inform the employer about any other piece of information relevant to your job search, such as relocation.

I will relocate to Portland in the next sixty days as a result of my wife's promotion.

Close
Conclude your letter by using a brief closing statement, followed by your intention to follow up:

Based on my track record of successful operational efficiency, I believe I have the qualifications and accomplishments to make a positive impact on ABC Inc. I look forward to discussing this opportunity with you and I will contact your office next week.

Cover Letters and Career Transition Job Seekers
For job seekers making a transition from one career focus to another or possibly changing industries, consider adding a paragraph informing the employer exactly how your skills translate or are directly transferable to the job opportunity. This explanation of transferability must be succinct. If it isn't, the employer may conclude that you are struggling to draw the analogy between your skills and the job. In that case, you lose. This information about your transferability of skills should be a part of the third or fourth paragraph. For example:
• "There is a strong correlation of my skills as a . . . and your open position for a . . . "
• "My skills and experience as an employee benefits account manager are directly transferable to your need of an internal benefits human resource specialist. (Now explain why) . . . "
Cover Letters and Recruiters
When contacted by a recruiter for a specific opportunity, the following technique can differentiate you from other job seekers since you will be competing against other well-qualified candidates.
Here's the scenario and how to gain a potential edge:
You have been contacted by a recruiter regarding a specific opportunity. You are interested and qualified and the recruiter is willing to submit your credentials to the employer. Ask the recruiter if there is a job description or job posting. If so, get it and read it. In the same conversation or a follow-up call, tell the recruiter that you are going to send a brief cover letter (by email) regarding the position. Most, if not all, recruiters will accept the letter. Ask the recruiter, at his or her discretion, to include the cover letter as a part of your submission to the employer. Here's why: Many recruited candidates don't bother with cover letters because they think a recruiter's involvement makes a cover letter unnecessary. Differentiate yourself from your competition and showcase your accomplishments and qualifications by writing a cover letter (remember the word cloud technique, which could help). Employers will note that you took the time and effort to write the letter, and draw the conclusion that you must be more interested than some of the other candidates who did not. And when the letter gets read, you have differentiated yourself even more.
Marketing Emails—Proactively Marketing Your Professional Credentials
Proactively marketing your professional credentials by email directly to hiring executives is an effective job-search technique that drives straight to the heart of the hidden job market. With reference to the Cover Letter Success Formula, write a compelling email cover letter.
Marketing emails essentially follow the identical formula for content as any other letter with some distinct differences that should be observed to increase effectiveness. These differences include:
Subject Line. Good use of the subject line is vital. It must be short and attention-getting. A poor subject line would read: "Accountant looking for work." A good subject line would read: "#1 Provider Technology Sales Representative."
A very good approach is using your Headline from your LinkedIn profile, and then modifying it as needed using your professional judgment.
Inside Address. This is a communication sent by email, not by the US Postal Service. Do not put an inside address in the email. A date is unnecessary as well.
Attaching a Resume. Here you have to make some decisions. Some companies have servers with robust firewalls that screen out all unfamiliar emails with an attachment. You can either send an attached resume or not. If your email that had a resume attached is returned with an undeliverable kickback, try again without the resume attached. Another consideration is your current employment status. If you are unemployed, it is recommended that you attach a copy of your resume. If you are currently employed, think through whether you want to provide a copy of your resume. You may decide to be selective and send a copy to some companies and not to others.
When it comes to attaching a resume, customize the name of the document. It should at least be your first and last name with a space between them e.g., John Smith.docx. A better approach would be your name plus a branding statement e.g., John Smith Lean Six Sigma. docx. Or, add a position type or function e.g., John Smith Senior Engineer.docx.
Close. Your close should be different due to the "reply" function with emails. It is recommended that you ask the recipient to act in response to the email. An example of a good close would be:

"If you have an interest or a need for a proven account manager with a documented track record of success, please reply or call me."

Telephone Number. Always put your telephone number in your marketing emails. The hiring executive may want to bypass the reply button and speak to you directly. Give them a way to do so.

What the Pros Say:
What advice would you give a job seeker that wants to send a cover letter by email?
Absolutely do it!
• Keep it very brief.
• Don't attach it, put it in the body of the email.
• Address the person by name.
• Do not be vague! Specifically address how your experience can benefit the company.
• Include all your contact information; phone, email, LinkedIn profile URL, professional website—give them ways to find out more about you quickly and easily.
Jessica Hernandez, Certified Social Branding Analyst
I coach my clients to include the cover letter in the body of the email. People are reluctant to open attachments from people they don't know and especially when they arrive with a blank or almost blank message. Including your cover letter in the body of the email, with the resume attached, gives you the chance to establish some trust, credibility, and rapport with the recipient, piquing their interest and making them feel comfortable enough to open the attachment to learn more.
Michelle Dumas, NCRW, CPRW

Thank-You Letters
The primary purposes of thank-you letters are to express your appreciation, reiterate your relevant background, qualifications, and successes, and differentiate you from other job seekers. Most hiring executives appreciate a thank-you correspondence after an interview.92 And "some employers may expect a job interview thank-you card."93 However, it has been said that only 20 percent of all job seekers take the time to write a thank-you note.94 If so, writing a thank-you note can differentiate you from other job seekers. And not sending a thank-you note may reflect negatively on your candidacy.95
An important secondary purpose is to make sure the hiring executive remembers you. In a survey by The Ladders, a combined 76 percent said a thank-you note was "somewhat important" or "very important" to their hiring decision.96 That's three out of every four! Therefore, capitalize on this opportunity to reinforce your skills and accomplishments. Write a thank-you note after every interview. And keep it short. This is a thank-you letter, not an interview transcript.
To maximize the impact of your thank-you letter, use the following approach:
1. Express your appreciation
2. Match
3. Emphasize past achievements
4. Close
Let's look at each step in more detail:
Express your appreciation
Thank the hiring executive for their time. Then, build rapport, depending upon the circumstances. Your first paragraph could look something like this:

I appreciate you taking time to meet with me regarding your implementation consultant position. I enjoyed learning how you derived the concept behind your state-of-the-art system. As we discussed, my knowledge in this area could assist your department with the challenges it will face in the coming months.
Or, perhaps like this:
Thank you for meeting me on Tuesday regarding the regional sales position. I appreciate your time. And, by the way, good luck to your son during tryouts for the starting quarterback position!

Match
Because you were interviewed, you should know what the hiring executive is looking for in the position. Briefly restate and match your qualifications to the need.

During our plant tour last week, I was impressed with your use of robotics in the manufacturing process. I can honestly say I have never seen such an efficient after-market manufacturing plant! With over fifteen years as an industrial engineer from near identical manufacturing environments I am well-suited for the challenges of this position.

Emphasize past achievements
Express your interest in the position, and link two or three job requirements with your accomplishments. For maximum impact, try to make them relevant to company needs, a position's special qualifications, or topics mentioned in the interview. Your paragraph could look something like this:

I am interested in joining your company in an engineering operations capacity. As we discussed, my recent accomplishments include:
• Implemented a manufacturing process improvement system resulting in an $800,000 savings.
• Designed and implemented an inventory auditing system that increased turnaround time by 30 percent and reduced spending by 12 percent.
• Developed and implemented a "Visions" business plan that forecast budgets for a variety of business operations including equipment and technology upgrades, new facility construction, and reduced operating expenses.

Close
Here, express your continued interest and outline your plan to contact the hiring executive. Here's an example of this final paragraph:

What I achieved for Sinc Company, I can do for you. I will follow up with you in ten days, as you requested, to discuss additional steps.


What the Pros Say:
What suggestions would you pass along about writing a post interview thank-you letter?
After an interview is your vital moment to continue selling your unique skills, qualifications, accomplishments, and credentials. Most candidates don't bother sending a thank-you letter, so you will already stand out by actually sending one.
What should you include in the thank-you letter?
1. Address your candidacy: If, during an interview, there was a specific objection raised as to your appropriateness as a candidate, use your thank-you letter to respond to and overcome those concerns.
2. Meet their needs and challenges: If, during an interview, the company communicated their specific needs and challenges, use the thank-you letter to clearly demonstrate how you can meet those needs and eliminate those challenges.
3. Reiterate qualifications: If, during an interview, the company communicated their ideal qualifications for a candidate, use the thank-you letter to outline how you meet and exceed each of those qualifications.
Even if you feel you are repeating yourself by reiterating what was already discussed in the interview, I assure you that there is nothing more effective than repeating those things to the interviewer. Of course most of us would prefer to email a thank-you letter, but I encourage you to mail a handwritten note if you have the chance, for the precise reason that almost nobody does this anymore.
Nelly Grinfeld, MBA, NCRW, CEIC
The thank-you letter is the perfect summary of your interview performance. It's your chance to underscore an important answer or say something more about a subject you feel you didn't quite say enough about the first time around. It's also your opportunity to repeat why you're the right person for the job and what you can do on the job that another candidate cannot.
I also believe strongly that email-only thank-you letters, while convenient, are impersonal. I urge my clients to send handwritten notes or cards as thank yous whenever possible—I can just about guarantee this will make their candidacy stand out.
Cheryl Lynch Simpson, CMRW, ACRW, COPNS

Thank-You Letters When You Are Not Selected for the Job
This letter builds bridges for the future and is a very strong networking technique. It will differentiate you from others and create a favorable impression with the hiring executive. There are two good reasons for doing this. First, it can leave the door open for future opportunities with the company. It is not uncommon for employers to revisit previous candidates when new opportunities become available.
Additionally, since professionals within an industry often run in the same circles of influence, the letter distinguishes you and could lead to other business relationships with the hiring executive. Writing a professional correspondence after a decision not to hire shows the hiring executive your character and professionalism. You don't know where, when, and in what way your paths may cross again. The letter helps ensure the next engagement is positive—be it business or personal.
Some Final Words about Written Communications
As you know, communication is a sought-after skill (written, verbal, and listening).97 Being able to write effectively and persuasively is important in your job search and it will be evaluated. What you write about, how you communicate it, sentence structure, word choice, grammar, punctuation, and proofreading are evaluated against other job seekers. By following the Cover Letter Success Formula and proper thank-you letter writing techniques, you can feel confident that your written communications will differentiate you from other job seekers, grab the attention of the employer, and result in a higher success rate.
Proofread everything and have someone unfamiliar with the documents review them. Using an effective writing formula will be rendered useless if there is spelling, grammatical, or punctuation errors.

88 Franklin, Benjamin [Richard Saunders, Poor Richard, pseud.]. The Way to Wealth. July 7, 1757, American Literature Research and Analysis, http://itech.fgcu.edu/faculty/wohlpart/alra/franklin.htm (accessed May 27, 2015).
89 Claycomb and Dinse, Career Pathways, Part 4.
90 See also, Safani, "Tell a Story."
91 Matt, "Brag Book."
92 Accountemps, "Farewell to the Handwritten Thank-You Note? Survey Reveals Email, Phone Call Are Preferred Methods for Post-Interview Follow-Up," news release, June 14, 2012, http://accountemps.rhi.mediaroom.com/thank-you (accessed July 9, 2015).
93 "Do Employers Expect a Job Interview Thank-You Card?" CVTips, http://www.cvtips.com/interview/do-employers-expect-a-job-interviewthank-you-card.html (accessed July 10, 2015).
94 Helmrich, Brittney. "Thanks! 20 Job Interview Thank You Note Tips," Business News Daily, June 23, 2015, http://www.businessnewsdaily.com/7134-thank-you-note-tips.html (accessed July 9, 2015).
95 "Thank-You Note Etiquette," CareerBuilder, http://www.careerbuilder.com/JobPoster/Resources/page.aspx?pagever=ThankYouNoteEtiquette (accessed July 9, 2015).
96 "Give Thanks or Your Chance For That Job Could be Cooked," TheLadders, http://cdn.theladders.net/static/images/basicSite/PR/pdfs/TheLaddersGiveThanks.pdf (accessed June 5, 2015).
97 Hanson and Hanson, "What Do Employers Really Want?"







Part V
Business Cards
High expectations are the key to everything.
— Sam Walton98
Having a business card during a job search is a necessity. Circumstances will present themselves where providing a resume is awkward or inappropriate.
There are four different approaches to the standard three-and-a-half inch by two-inch business card for a job search: traditional business cards, networking business cards, resume business cards, and infographic business cards (handbill).
To determine the best business card approach for your needs, consider this key factor: Which would be best received by a networking contact or the hiring executive for your level of position?
It's easy to get sidetracked when creating business cards, especially networking, resume, and infographic versions. Resist that urge. Don't overanalyze. Just remember: The messaging behind your brand and the information on your resume and LinkedIn profile must match the message and information on your card.
A solid case can be made for getting two sets of cards to use in different settings: traditional for truly social events, and a networking or resume card for job networking events.
Here are examples for each kind of job search business card:
Traditional Business Cards
This business card is simple in design. It contains only your name, city of residence, (street address is optional), telephone number(s), email address, and LinkedIn profile address. It is used for information exchange purposes only.

Networking Business Cards
Networking business cards contain the same key contact information as a traditional card, except this variety also has a title and a concise statement regarding your career focus and unique value proposition or brand. Remember to keep the messaging consistent between your networking card, your resume, your LinkedIn profile, and so on. With some variations, the theme of these job-seeking tools must align.

Resume Business Cards
A resume business card takes the networking card one step further. Here you may expand descriptive information on the front of the card, and put key qualifications and accomplishments on the back. Focus on your top two or three strong achievements (or qualities), instead of responsibilities or titles.
This next point is optional, but leave a little white space at the bottom of the back of the card, allowing the recipient room to jot a note about you. Hopefully the note will read, "Need to call."


It's fine to mix and match the concepts of the three forms of business cards. For example, you may determine that it would be best received by your target audience that the front of the card has a traditional look. But, on the back, you may choose to include a branding statement and a couple of achievements. That's fine. Exercise your best business judgment.

What the Pros Say:
As a resume writer, have you ever given advice to a job seeker about the design or use of a job-search business card? If so, what was your advice?
I have given advice on this. I recommend clients incorporate a personal branding statement, and not just say what they do. You want to be memorable. This was not a client of mine, but I met a woman who was a marketing executive. She had mini-business cards that were very simple, her name, Strategic Marketing Executive, phone and email (personally I would have added her LinkedIn URL) on one side. The other side of the card had a tag line, like Dynamic Leader, and each card had a different line. When she passed out cards in a group interview it became a talking point and people were comparing what each card said.
Michelle Robin, NCRW, CPRW
I suggest to my clients that their business card design should match the formatting, color, and tone of their resume and other career communications tools whenever possible. I also suggest using a networking title on the front of the card and including a short WhyBuyROI on the reverse side. This succinctly summarizes for the reader why a company should hire the person and what impact their tenure has made for past employers.
Cheryl Lynch Simpson, CMRW, ACRW, COPNS
A business card or a double-sized card (folded to the typical size) is easy to carry and hand to someone as part of a job seeker's networking and self-marketing process. It would include the job seeker's name, contact info, the target job, brief bullet points, LinkedIn profile URL, and the URL and/or QR code to access the full resume.
Beate Hait, CPRW, NCRW

Business cards can be printed at most office supply stores and are reasonably inexpensive for a few hundred cards. In addition, many online companies produce business cards inexpensively. And if you're technology savvy, you can print your cards using special paper and a template that is already loaded on most computers.
When creating your job-search business cards, keep the design simple. Use traditional fonts and conservative, business-appropriate color schemes. If you are pursuing jobs in advertising, media marketing, or other creative fields, you have more latitude with design and use of colors.
Infographic Business Card
An infographic business card is a very unique concept. It is not a "business card" in the traditional sense. Instead, it is more of a "networking handbill." In concept, an infographic business card is a colorful, high-resolution document containing persuasive background information and accomplishments presented through pie charts and bar graphs of creative design.
An infographic business card was briefly addressed in the Infographic Resume section of the book. It is larger than the standard three-and-a-half inch by two-inch business card. Although there is no rule, a four-by-six-inch card is a good size or starting point.
The infographic business card is ideal for networking events, especially for association gatherings and conventions. Printed on business-card grade paper, with colorful graphics, it is a clear differentiator. If not too large, it can still easily slip into an inside jacket pocket or portfolio of a networking contact or hiring executive.
If this infographic card idea appeals to you, it is highly recommended that you use the services of a professional with experience creating infographic resumes, as this experience translates well to infographic cards. Remember, networking cards, resume cards, and infographic cards do not replace your resume. They are designed as job-search marketing pieces. Always have these cards handy, regardless of which version or versions you decide to use. Who knows who you could meet, and if they'll contribute to your search? You never can tell.

98 Bergdahl, Michael. What I Learned From Sam Walton: How to Compete and Thrive in a Wal-Mart World. (Hoboken, New Jersey: John Wiley & Sons, 2004), p. 39.







Part VI
Sample Resumes and Other Great Resources
In the sections that follow, you are given the unique opportunity to view resumes and cover letters from some of the most experienced, credentialed, and award-winning resume writers in the country! They are the same pros that have been giving you advice throughout this book. They were selectively chosen and profiled for their experience, professional credentials, and quality of work. There was an attempt to provide you with writers that were geographically dispersed.
The resume writers have graciously donated their work. They did not receive any compensation to be included in this book. This book is unlike any other resume book they have participated in because it provides them with a platform to display their portfolio of work to you.
If you choose to have your resume professionally written, please consider contacting the writers in this book whose work appeals to you or perhaps are located closest to you.
Understand that resume writing is an art form. It takes time and focused concentration. What you may see may not completely align with the instructional section of this book. However, each sample resume was written with a specific job, strategy, or goal in mind. You have the wonderful advantage of having the education of the instructional part of this book. With the resume samples that follow, you can blend and create your own unique resume or decide that a professionally prepared resume is the way to go.
Each writer was given an introductory page followed by samples of their work. The introductory page provides information about the writer and contact information. They were asked to provide a diverse sampling of resumes and cover letters from different professional levels and different industries. They have attempted do so with the understanding that many specialize with certain levels and industries. All of the resumes have been fictionalized.
To further increase the use of this book, many of the resumes have been posted on themotivatedjobsearch.com website under the Resumes tab. There you can view the resumes in their original electronic form (with colors). The Resumes tab is password protected. The password is: BEMOTIVATED

Virginia Franco, NCRW, CPRW
Virginia Franco Resumes

Virginia Franco, NCRW, CPRW
Virginia Franco Resumes
100% Customized Resumes for Today's Readers that Garner Interviews in 60 Days
www.virginiafrancoresumes.com
VAFrancoResumes@gmail.com
704-771-8572
Virginia Franco is a Nationally Certified Resume Writer with several industry credentials, holds a master's in social work and a bachelor's in journalism.
She founded the Charlotte, NC-based Virginia Franco Resumes several years ago when recognizing her years of corporate communications and freelance web, newspaper and magazine writing offered her a unique understanding of how people read online, in print and when in a rush.
Virginia helps clients all over the world to get interviews in 60 days with career documents including resumes, cover letters and LinkedIn profiles that appeal to 21st century online, skim readers.
She shares her writing and job search insight regularly as a member of the Forbes Coaches Council and with readers of Ivy Exec, Business2Community.com, MedReps, Career Metis and BusinessGists 24/7 Business News.
















Michelle Dumas, NCRW, CPRW
Distinctive Career Services, LLC

Michelle Dumas, Founder and CEO
Distinctive Career Services, LLC
www.distinctiveweb.com
michelle@distinctivecareerservices.com
Office - 800-644-9494
Direct - 603-397-0222
Text - 603-928-7357
With more than 20 years of experience, Michelle Dumas is a widely recognized and sought out leader and international award-winning expert in the fields of professional resume writing and career marketing. Michelle's genuine caring, natural intuitiveness, and relaxed interpersonal style have been credited in helping her clients feel comfortable in opening up and sharing the details of their lives, their careers, and their dreams—details that are absolutely essential to the work of developing a resume and other career marketing documents. At the same time, her intense focus and goal orientation, strong strategic thinking abilities, and commitment to excellence in everything she does has made her work with executives and aspiring executives a natural fit for her talents.
Founded in 1996, Michelle's company Distinctive Career Services, LLC (www.distinctiveweb.com and www.executiveresumewriting.services) is one of the longest-standing leaders in the industry, an Internet pioneer respected for unmatched expertise, quality, and commitment to their clients' success.
Michelle has earned multiple certifications and credentials in the fields of resume writing, personal branding, and career coaching, and her impeccable and creative resumes have won numerous awards. She is a published author as well as a contributor to well over a dozen books on resume writing. Michelle is also very active in her industry through professional associations, providing volunteer training and mentoring, advisory services for one of the industry's most highly regarded certification programs, and serving on the Executive Board for the industry's largest nonprofit association for resume writers.






























Norine Dagliano, BA, NCRW, CFRW/CC
ekm Inspirations

Norine Dagliano, BA, NCRW, CFRW/CC
ekm Inspirations
www.ekminspirations.com
www.linkedin.com/in/norinedagliano
norine@ekminspirations.com
Office - 301-766-2032
For more than 30 years, job seekers and professionals in career transition have relied on Norine Dagliano for expert advice, practical insight, inspiration, and support to help them get paid what they deserve doing work that they love.
Self-employed and operating as ekm Inspirations (in recognition of her children — her three greatest inspirations), Norine has continually honed her skills through ongoing training, which has earned her credentials as a Nationally Certified Résumé Writer (less than 50 professionals world-wide hold this credential) and Certified Federal Résumé Writer/Career Coach.
Taking a custom approach to each and every project, she excels in designing strategic and branded résumés and cover letters that capture attention, create desire, and move employers to reach out and connect. Through a personal approach, that includes an in-depth consultation and DISC Behavioral Style Assessment, Norine crafts documents that reflect each job seeker's unique personality and value proposition.
With a broad spectrum of knowledge and experience pertaining to hundreds of occupations and industries, as well as a vast network of colleagues she can tap for additional insight, Norine assists job seekers — from blue-collar and entry-level to executive — in distinguishing themselves from their competition. Her ideal clients recognize that an investment in professionally written documents is an investment in their careers.









Nelly Grinfeld, MBA, NCRW, CEIC
Top of the Stack Resume

Nelly Grinfeld
Top of the Stack Resume
www.topofthestackresume.com
writer@topofthestackresume.com
Office - 513-328-8019
Nelly Grinfeld is a Nationally Certified Resume Writer whose 10+ years' experience is grounded in her Human Resources background and MBA education. With an insider's view of what hiring managers are looking for, Nelly knows the right questions to ask; she is able to highlight each client's strengths and accomplishments while meeting industry-specific demands. Her dedication to continuing education in the ever-changing arena of career marketing allows Nelly to consistently write concise, keyword-rich, attention-grabbing resumes and LinkedIn profiles that produce results for professionals at all levels.
As head writer and owner of Top of the Stack Resume, Nelly partners with motivated professionals to create powerful career documents that consistently land at the top of the stack and result in more interviews. Nelly provides a personalized service to clients in a variety of industries to bring out their strengths and expertly show their unique value to their next employer.













Beate Hait, CPRW, NCRW
Resumes Plus

Beate Hait, Owner
Résumés Plus
508-429-1813
www.resumesplus.net
bea@resumesplus.net
Beate (Bea) Hait has been writing resumes for individuals in all industries and from entry level to executive since 1992. Bea is skilled at highlighting qualifications and accomplishments and puts them in a format that improves the chances of the candidate being called for an interview. Writing LinkedIn profiles and targeted cover letters—either for one particular job or for the general job target that the client can then customize for various postings—are additional services provided.
Having earned the credentials CPRW (Certified Professional Resume Writer) and NCRW (Nationally Certified Resume Writer) by completing a series of tests to demonstrate excellence in resume writing, Bea is one of only a handful of resume writers nationwide—and the only one in Massachusetts—to earn both credentials. By regularly attending professional resume writers' conferences sponsored by the National Resume Writers' Association (NRWA), Bea hones her skills and keeps current with career search process changes, such as the use of applicant tracking systems.
Based in the Boston, Massachusetts area, Bea works with clients in person or virtually by email and telephone. To date, her most long-distance client resided in Mongolia, and the consultation was done using Skype. Two measures indicate the effectiveness of the resumes she writes: the large number of referrals from satisfied clients and repeat clientele when the client is ready for an update to pursue that next career step.












Michelle Robin, NCRW, CPRW
Brand Your Career

Michelle Robin, NCRW, CPRW
Chief Career Brand Officer, Brand Your Career
www.brandyourcareer.com
info@brandyoucareer.com
773-531-3457
www.linkedin.com/in/michellerobin
twitter.com/brandyourcareer
Does this sound like you?
✓ Marketing or sales is in your DNA and you're currently at a director-level or higher role.
✓ You realize you're too close to your career to look at it objectively.
✓ You're a superstar when it comes to selling or promoting your company's products, but don't feel comfortable promoting yourself.
If you're ready to take charge and be the CEO of You, Inc., then Michelle Robin is your executive career consultant.
Passionate about direct marketing and helping people find jobs, Michelle has translated her extensive B-to-B marketing background into a career focused on her true love: creating powerful career marketing campaigns that lead to interviews at her clients' target organizations. As Chief Career Brand Officer at Brand Your Career, she primarily works with executive-level sales and marketing professionals across the U.S., and helps them discover their personal brand and fast track their job search.
Michelle was a recipient of the first-ever ROAR (Recognizing Outstanding Achievement in Résumés) award and is a dual-certified resume writer (NCRW and CPRW).
After working with Michelle you'll:
✓ Get your phone to ring with calls from your ideal employer.
✓ Increase your LinkedIn profile views.
✓ Shorten your job search by a minimum of 3 weeks.
✓ Have a strong career portfolio with a bulletproof search strategy.
✓ Feel you can command the salary you deserve.





















Cheryl Minnick, M.Ed., Ed.D, CCMC, NCRW
University of Montana - Academic Enrichment

Cheryl Minnick, M.Ed., Ed.D, CCMC, NCRW
University of Montana
406-243-4614
cminnick@mso.umt.edu
Passionate, lively and engaging, Dr. Cheryl Minnick is career counselor/internship coordinator at the University of Montana with nearly 30 years' experience in higher education, 20 of those in the area of career counseling. She holds both a masters and doctorate with specialization in career counseling. Trained by top industry experts, she is one of less than 50 Nationally Certified Résumé Writers in the country. Cheryl is a guest instructor with Career Thought Leaders, a think tank for the now, new, and next in careers; teaches webinars for the Career Academy; and sits on the NRWA Certification Board for resume writing certification. Over a three-year period, she partnered with the Montana Department of Labor to train employment professionals statewide on best practices in resume creation, cover letter writing, and applicant tracking systems.
Cheryl is a certified Academies Career Management Coach whose career advice has been featured on AOLJobs, Voice America radio, CareerSparx and Resume Writer's Digest . . . who has published career development research in the Journal of Academic Administration in Higher Education and The New Accountant . . . and, whose resumes and cover letters are published in books including, "Modernize Your Resume: Get Noticed—Get Hired;" "Designing the Perfect Résumé," "How to Pop your Résumé," Gallery of Best Cover Letters," "The Twitter Job Search Guide" and "101 Job Seeking Tips for Recent College Grads." If not on campus working with students, she can be found helping mid-level to senior managers through her boutique career consulting business, The Paper Trail. Cheryl has successfully helped hundreds of students and professionals successfully navigate careers and achieve professional success.









Jessica Holbrook Hernandez, Certified Social Branding Analyst President/CEO of Great Resumes Fast

Jessica Holbrook Hernandez
President/CEO of Great Resumes Fast
www.greatresumesfast.com 1.800.991.5187
www.linkedin.com/in/jessicaholbrook
www.twitter.com/greatresume
www.facebook.com/GreatResumesFastLLC
I started Great Resumes Fast more than 7 years ago with the mission of using my 12+ years of human resources, recruiting, and hiring experience to create interview-winning resumes for job seekers who really didn't know what a resume should look or "sound" like. My desire—and the heart of my business—is for everyone here to use his or her expertise and experience within the "hiring sphere" to assist job seekers who do not have the time, experience, or expertise to create interview-worthy resumes.
We operate on the principle of The Golden Rule (Luke 6:31) and always strive to treat our clients the way we would like to be treated.
I hand-select exceptionally talented, credentialed, and ambitious writers who are laser-focused on putting client needs first and creating unique resumes, cover letters and LinkedIn profiles that make our clients outshine their competition. Our exclusive resume consultation and collaboration process is the secret behind our success—and the reason we can guarantee our clients interviews within 60 days or less.
Our success has earned us a 5-star rating from three independent resume writer-review websites, much praise from our highly satisfied clients (check out my LinkedIn recommendations) and 10+ independent "Best Resume Writer" awards.
In addition to 12+ years of experience as a hiring manager, recruiter, and human resources manager directing the hiring and talent acquisition of thousands of job seekers, I employ writers with similar experience and documented credentials.
A nationally recognized resume expert, Jessica Holbrook Hernandez is President/CEO of Great Resumes Fast and a former human resources manager and recruiter. Leveraging more than ten years' experience directing hiring practices for Fortune 500 companies, Jessica has developed proprietary, innovative, and success-proven resume development and personal branding strategies that generate powerful results for the clients of Great Resumes Fast. As a global resume authority and trusted media source, Jessica has been featured and quoted numerous times throughout CNN.com, Monster.com, Job Talk America radio, SmartBrief, International Business Times, and more. Jessica also has her Bachelor of Science degree in Communications/Public Relations from the University of North Florida.























Cheryl Lynch Simpson,
CMRW, ACRW, COPNS

Cheryl Lynch Simpson
ExecutiveResumeRescue.com
info@executiveresumerescue.com
614.891.9043
Cheryl Lynch Simpson is a Career, Job Search, and LinkedIn Coach and 30-year veteran of the career management industry. As a 21-time global award-winning Master Resume Writer, she specializes in serving mid-career to senior executives in more than 30 different industries. Cheryl blends expertise in job search strategies with her proprietary job search program and elite career branding to hone in on her client's WhyBuyROI - the reason employers should hire them and the quantifiable impact their hire has had on employers in their past. Known for her skill in visual branding, she has earned multiple Toast of the Resume Industry (TORI) awards for her stunning resume designs and innovative layouts.



















Amy L. Adler
MBA, MA, CMRW, CCMC

Amy L. Adler, MBA, MA, CMRW, CCMC
www.linkedin.com/in/amyladler
fivestrengths.com
everydayresumes.com
twitter.com/AmyLAdler
(801) 810-5627
As an executive resume writer and career coach, Amy L. Adler, MBA, MA, CMRW, CCMC has the privilege of meeting the most amazing people every day and telling their stories. Each new executive with whom she works has contributed something amazing, but often they don't see it, so she translates what is in their heads into language that hiring executives understand, appreciate, and act on. Thus, she works one-on-one with demanding executive job seekers to uncover, deconstruct, and rebuild their career histories into powerful demonstrations of talents, accomplishments, and professional branding. She captures executive job seekers' career histories using their unique career goals as the lens to focus their talents and expertise, ensuring the hiring executives learn exactly what they need to know, via their executive resume, LinkedIn profile, cover letter, and strategic career coaching.
A Certified Master Resume Writer, Amy has written hundreds of resumes for C-level executives and professionals around the world. Amy has won two TORI Awards for Best Executive Resume and has been nominated the TORI's Best Career Re-Entry Resume, plus she has been invited to serve as a TORI judge. She holds an MBA from Boston College, a Master of Arts from New York University, and a Bachelor of Arts from Franklin and Marshall College. Amy can be reached via the Five Strengths Career Transition Experts website at http://fivestrengths.com or by calling (801) 810-5627.






Kimberly Robb Baker
NCRW, CJSS, CMRW

Kimberly Robb Baker
This Little Brand
twitter.com/thislittlebrand
linkedin.com/in/kimberlyrobbbaker
facebook.com/kimmohiuddin
movinonupresumes.com/samples
kim@movingonupresumes.com
Kimberly Robb Baker, career story coach and writer, uses the process of resume writing to help her clients define their unique value. Together, they review work and life experience and identify trends to uncover brand qualities that are a perfect match for their next role. The deep exploration helps them define, internalize, and embody that value whether they are in an interview or in line at the store.
Ms. Baker's visually appealing, highly branded resumes, cover letters, and LinkedIn profiles instantly communicate how each client can contribute in their new environment. Executives, entrepreneurs, and rising stars reach out to have her tell their career stories. While Ms. Baker is a multi-credentialed and multi-award-winning resume writer, former certification chair of the National Resume Writers' Association, and trusted resource to the media, she is most proud of one accomplishment: more than 70% of her business is with repeat and referred clients.
You can connect with Ms. Baker at ThisLittleBrand.com.









Wendi Weiner
JD, NCRW, CPRW, CCTC, CCM

Wendi Weiner
The Writing Guru
www.linkedin.com/in/thewritingguru
www.facebook.com/thewritingguru
twitter.com/writing_guru
(888) 285-9982
Wendi Weiner, creatively known as The Writing Guru, is an accomplished attorney, former college writing professor, 4X certified executive resume writer and career transition coach, and global career expert. She is a member of the prestigious Forbes Coaches Council and a board member for The National Resume Writers' Association.
Wendi has been featured for her top-notch expertise in national radio broadcasts, Forbes, The Huffington Post, Fortune, Business News Daily, Monster, Careerealism, and CareerBuilder. She is the owner of The Writing Guru, a top-ranked resume service firm based in Miami, Florida, with national and international clientele served in more than 30 industries. Wendi is also a dedicated philanthropist and active leader for the Jewish Federation of Broward County.









Bob Janitz, NCRW

Bob Janitz
www.linkedin.com/in/bobjanitz
jganitz@yahoo.com
www.janitz.com
817.253.6533
Bob Janitz is a Nationally Certified Résumé Writer accredited by The National Résumé Writer's Association (The NRWA) in the Dallas-Fort Worth, Texas Metroplex. He has 23 years of experience creating custom documents for entry-level to executive job seekers in sales, marketing, finance, legal, information technology, education, project management, operations, product management, and healthcare.
Bob wrote his first resume in 1993, while employed by Procter & Gamble. The resume was for a co-worker who got the interview, landed the job, and started advertising Bob to others in the Company.
In 2008, Bob joined The National Résumé Writers' Association and became a full-time resume writer. Through education in The NRWA and experience, he achieved the Nationally Certified Résumé Writer status in 2014. In 2014, Bob was the President of The NRWA.





Tina Kashlak Nicolai, PHR, CPBA, CARW
Lominger Certified (Interview Architect)

Resume Writers' Ink
tina@resumewritersink.com
407-578-1697
Resume Writers' Ink was founded in 2010 by Tina Kashlak Nicolai. She offers her clients a strategic, trifecta approach by combining her unique background weaving together pragmatic client results with creative marketing.
Tina's trifecta approach comes from having a tenured career as a:
• Hiring leader for several Fortune 100 companies (including Disney World)
• Full cycle recruiter (20+ years and currently working in talent acquisition)
• Journalist and Marketing expertise
Resume Writers' Ink, LLC is known for it's distinct ability to write classic, contemporary, and creative (infographic) resumes for executives and professionals. Tina's clients seek her out for her expertise in writing for:
C-suite Executives, Sr. Executives, IT Professionals, Engineers, Project Managers and career-focused professionals (all industries)
Additionally, Tina is sought out on an ongoing basis by leading industry career journalists and media where she contributes best practices, tips, and advice in major media streams, including but not limited to:
Business Insider Careers
Forbes Careers
Careers in Government (blogger)
International radio groups
Monster Careers
She's been featured in numerous book publications as well as sought out for keynote speaking and career motivation talks.
Tina took her start-up business from unknown to making Forbes' "TOP 75 BEST CAREER WEBSITES" competition in 2012. She achieved this distinction during Forbes' inaugural year and named again in FORBES 2013 list of Best Career Websites. FORBES retired the BEST CAREER WEBSITE list after two years.
Tina holds two degrees from Duquesne University in Pittsburgh, PA; BA Journalism and BA Media Communications. Additionally, she is certified in:
• Certified Behavioral Coach, CPBA
• Lominger/Korn Ferry Certification
• Certified Advanced Resume Writer, CARW
• PHR SHRM
In her spare time, Tina enjoys competing in triathlons, caring for lost and stray pets, geocaching, and scuba diving. She and her husband reside in Orlando, Florida.














Appendix
More of "What the Pros Say" Resumes
As a resume writer, what is your definition of a resume?

A resume is a future-oriented personal marketing document that should be written to convey that you understand the employers' needs, have the proven ability to meet them, and that you will do so in a way that produces a higher return on the employer's investment in hiring you (ROI) than your competitors will.
Michelle Dumas, NCRW, CPRW
A resume is a written communication of your brand, value proposition, experience, and accomplishments. It doesn't just tell readers what you've done, it tells them what to think about what you've done and why it's relevant in their environment.
Kimberly Robb Baker, NCRW, CJSS, CMRW

When you begin composing a resume (blank computer screen), what thoughts or writing philosophies are in your mind?

When I begin on a new resume, there are two main things that I try to keep in mind and these are the first facts that I capture on paper, because it is from these that the rest of the document flows. First, what is the focus of the resume? Understanding the focus helps me to understand who the audience is for the resume. To be truly effective, a resume should be written to show how the candidate will solve the needs and problems of the audience. Without a clear understanding of the focus and audience for a resume, I am unable to write another word. I write this at the very top of the page to keep me on track as I write.
My second concern is related to discovering and capturing the client's "unique value proposition" or "personal brand." Most clients have no clue what it is that truly differentiates them and makes them uniquely valuable in the workplace. I help them uncover and identify this through the process of writing their resume. To do this, I begin the body of the resume by looking for the storyline. I jot down notes about the challenges they have faced in each position, the actions they have taken, they key results they generated, and the overall lasting impact on each employing organization that the client produced. Through this process, I begin to see threads of similarities in my client's accomplishments. Themes begin to emerge. These themes almost always point to and provide clues about the client's personal brand.
Michelle Dumas, NCRW, CPRW
As I begin composing a resume, I think about the experience the job seeker brings to the table and which elements/keywords of that experience support the target for the next phase in the job seeker's work life—be it a progression in the same career, initial entrance or reentry to the workforce, or a career change.
Beate Hait, CPRW, CRW

In your opinion, is it important to have a brand (either a branding statement or branding words) on a resume? Please briefly explain.

It is critical to have a (portable) brand statement with keywords and proof points artfully strung together with active verbs to bring credibility and life to the brand message. Whether those proof points are within a one-line branding statement, three- to five-line branding summary, bulleted quantified accomplishments (years in the industry, awards won, sales goals, etc.) or testimonials (tidbits from letters of recommendation or client commentaries) all written with a problem-solution-results oriented focus. I do this by weaving together keywords / key messages and supporting them with proof points all tailored and targeted toward a specific job or industry.
Cheryl Minnick, M.Ed., Ed.D, CCMC, NCRW
Personal branding is an often overlooked but very critical piece of your resume. It's the key to showing the employer how you're different from other similar candidates and how you'll be a benefit to the organization.
Jessica Hernandez, Certified Social Branding Analyst

Provided that you advocate for branding on a resume, what do you have your client think about to give you information to formulate the brand?

I have them take two assessments, StrengthsFinder 2.0 and the Fascination Advantage by Sally Hogshead. This gives me, and my client, insight into their innate strengths, what they do best, and some insight on how others perceive them. Once I have this information we talk about each strength and find examples when they've used that strength in their career. We also develop an anthem, which is a tagline for your personality. This comes from the Fascination Advantage assessment. Once I have the anthem I make sure that I pull out achievements in the resume that demonstrate this. The actual anthem may or may not show up in the actual resume.
Michelle Robin, NCRW, CPRW
I provide my clients with a brief questionnaire prior to our information-gathering consultation; their answers will help me to establish an agenda for the consultation. The following questions provide me with some insight about the reoccurring themes in the client's career and how to position him/her (formulate a brand):
1. How do you want to be perceived by your target audience?
2. What problems are you best at solving?
3. What words do your peers, staff, and external partners use to describe you?
4. If there were only 3 things you could share with an employer about your knowledge, skills, abilities, talents and background, what would they be?
5. What do you believe sets you apart from other professionals with similar skills and background?
Norine Dagliano, BA, NCRW, CFRW/CC
I have my clients brainstorm how they're similar to other candidates with the same experience/expertise and also how they're different than those same candidates. The differences usually represent their values and passions and are what will set them apart from their competition.
Jessica Hernandez, Certified Social Branding Analyst
I ask my clients many questions that help me uncover and formulate their brand, but the questions that are most helpful to me are those designed to help draw out their "story." I ask them to explain to me why they were hired or promoted into each position. What were the problems, challenges, or goals that they were brought in to help solve, overcome, or achieve? Then I ask them about their lasting impact on each employing organization. How was that company better off for having had you as an employee?
The themes that emerge from exploring the "story" of my client's career often help me identify their brand.
A second line of questioning helps me to focus in on how the client is the "same" (What are the baseline qualifications that you have, that most of your peers and competitors for this type of job also have?) and "different" (Now explain to me the qualifications you have that are different from most of your peers?). I often get some very brand-revealing answers with these questions.
Michelle Dumas, NCRW, CPRW

What is your resume writing philosophy about listing or mentioning transferable skills (e.g., communication skills, time management, etc.) on a resume?

Transferable skills and the branding message should align, and should further align with the job or industry. Listing skills (hard skills—financial analysis, not soft skills—time management) gives recruiters a taste of what the client offers and provides a "hook" to stimulate interest and garner an interview. It's the charge of a resume writer to help clients (students) develop brand messaging, to infuse their resume (and interviews) with excitement, energy, potential, and possibility so as to "hook" the recruiter. A random skills list that does not speak to the job or industry is useless.
Cheryl Minnick, M.Ed., Ed.D, CCMC, NCRW
Transferable skills are important, but to make sure they're relevant, you might need to explain to the reader what they mean to them. So, a person with a customer service background going into sales has transferable "communications" skills, but they are much more relevant if they're framed in relation to negotiating, needs assessments, and presentations.
Kimberly Robb Baker, NCRW, CJSS, CMRW
Such skills are very important in almost any job. However, we must be careful in that we don't fill the resume with "fluff"—things anybody could say. Anyone can say that they have good communication skills—back it up with a concrete example of communicating with teams, presenting to clients, leading meetings, etc. Anyone can say they are a hard worker—give a specific example of when you went above and beyond to achieve a positive result—did you deliver a project ahead of schedule? Did you take on an extra responsibility and excel at it? Quantify when possible.
Nelly Grinfeld, MBA, NCRW, CEIC
While it's vital to do this, it is critical that it be done in a way that caters to both human and non-human (database) readers. Some hiring executives might like to see a listing of skills, for example, but computers are programmed to place a higher value on keywords used in sentences, so I try to do both. That way whoever reads the resume will be more likely to find what they are looking for where they expect to find it.
Cheryl Lynch Simpson, CMRW, ACRW, COPNS

Can you, as a resume writer, create a level of differentiation by mentioning professional qualities on a resume (e.g., work ethic, honesty, etc.)?

Yes, but mostly by showing rather than telling. Just saying that someone has a great work ethic, for example, is a fairly worthless and unprovable statement. But if I instead include a brief story about how this person stayed all night at work during a hurricane to ensure a critical IT system didn't fail, I don't have to say they have a strong work ethic because it will be self-evident. Using over-utilized adjectives in a resume isn't a powerful approach to communicating someone's brand. I believe it's necessary to craft powerful language and/or leverage unique stories and achievements to help the reader come to the conclusion you want them to reach.
Cheryl Lynch Simpson, CMRW, ACRW, COPNS
Yes, within limits. Any professional quality on a resume should be substantiated by a parallel work experience. I often use quotes from others on a resume to convey these kinds of soft skills. Those types of statements just have more credibility when they come from someone else.
Kimberly Robb Baker, NCRW, CJSS, CMRW
Brand differentiation can be created by noting professional qualities (industry hard and soft skills) as a sales pitch in headlines, taglines, branding statements, branding summaries and bullets. However, persuasive brand differentiation messages should be simple and brief, yet convey critical information. Let's be honest, the goal of a resume is to get through an Applicant Tracking System with a score high enough to get noticed, read and remembered in the 6.25 seconds it takes a recruiter to make a yes/no decision about a resume.
Cheryl Minnick, M.Ed., Ed.D, CCMC, NCRW

Do you still need a resume if you have a LinkedIn profile?

Yes, definitely. Your LinkedIn profile is your online persona, and it's not customized for the position you are applying for. Plus, your profile should not just be a resume dump. It needs to complement your resume. Therefore you need a resume to present yourself to an employer in a targeted fashion. And in an interview, at least an in-person one, the interviewer is not going to be reading off a screen. It seems very impersonal.
Michelle Robin, NCRW, CPRW
Yes, a LinkedIn profile has not eliminated the need for a resume. The #1 reason a job seeker needs a resume is that most—if not all—companies still require submission of a resume as the first step in the hiring process.
Beate Hait, CPRW, NCRW
Yes, you do—resumes are the currency by which human resources departments differentiate and evaluate potential candidates. Your LinkedIn profile is where they'll go once they've decided that your candidacy is worth researching further. Both are complementary but equally vital to your job search.
Jessica Hernandez, Certified Social Branding Analyst

Studies have repeatedly shown that employers spend between five to twenty seconds when first looking at a resume. As a resume writer, how do you create a resume to capitalize on such a brief period of time?

I focus the majority of my attention to crafting a headline and summary for the resume that will make someone take notice. The top third of your resume is crucial to get readers to read on. When I speak on resume writing, I ask my audience to picture the top third of their resume lying on the ground. Would someone picking it up be able to tell who you are, what type of position you want, and the value you uniquely bring to the table? Then would that person be looking for the rest of your resume?
Michelle Robin, NCRW, CPRW
I use the top 1/3 of the first page to capture the reader's attention, keep their interest, and visually set the job seeker apart from the competition. This includes a header, a strong branding statement, and a short summary paragraph that spells out talent, skill, and experience to catch interest.
I pack the rest of the resume with strong accomplishment statements and front-load them with impressive, relevant, quantifiable information.
Nelly Grinfeld, MBA, NCRW, CEIC
Ask yourself what a hiring manager in your market would want to know in order to call you in for an interview. Make sure that information is on the top half of the first page. That means that if you have experience or a degree that otherwise wouldn't be revealed until the second page, find a way to mention it in your opening profile or in a list of career highlights.
Kimberly Robb Baker, NCRW, CJSS, CMRW
Using color, as in a border line or table to separate sections, has been said to add three to four seconds to the time a reader spends on a resume. Bold text, used appropriately, also makes a difference.
Bob Janitz, NCRW

Should a resume be written or revised for each position a job seeker pursues?

A resume needs to be targeted for the desired position so the hiring person doesn't have to guess why this resume was presented. Especially in that top one-third of the resume, every element needs to support the job goal and convey the talents and value the person would bring to the table in that role.
If a job seeker does not have a clear target job direction in mind, I will advise that person to do some research, find the types of jobs that would be appealing, and share those job postings with me. Only then will I be able to craft an effective resume. I need to have a target in mind in order to be able to hit that target!
Beate Hait, CPRW, NCRW
Ideally—yes. Since we don't live in an ideal world, I realize it is often not feasible for job seekers to revise their resume for each submission they make. For this reason, some job seekers may benefit from two resume versions, if their job-search goals have two different paths. For all job seekers, I suggest that the best place to customize their candidacy is in the cover letter. The cover letter gives an opportunity to spell out exactly how they are qualified for this job, and to show genuine interest in, and suitability for, this specific job.
Nelly Grinfeld, MBA, NCRW, CEIC

The use of keywords is important on a resume. What would you consider are the more important kinds of information that lead to keywords?

I am an expert in resume writing. My client is an expert in his or her industry and profession. I listen carefully to the words and jargon my clients use in describing their work, as these are often the keywords and key phrases I will need to use in the resume. I also do a lot of research on the Internet, reading industry-specific websites and very frequently reading job announcements. The words and phrases used in job announcements are almost always important, and in my final check of a resume, I always read through it to make sure I have used as many of the keywords as possible within the body of the resume. A separate keyword section isn't necessary. You just need to make sure they are used, as naturally as possible, in the resume text.
Michelle Dumas, NCRW, CPRW
You don't want to just have a list of keywords in a core competencies section to game the ATS. You need to incorporate the words into your resume. For example, cross-functional team is a popular term. Instead of just listing that somewhere on your resume, put it into context. Something like, "Led cross-functional team across 3 departments to implement new ERP system with little to no downtime at point of transition," gets the term in there and shows your impact.
Michelle Robin, NCRW, CPRW
The job description's "required qualification" and "preferred qualification", as well as "education" sections will have the key qualification that your resume should attend to. When reading a job posting, if a key skill is repeated in the required, preferred and introductory section, it's probably pretty important.
Cheryl Minnick, M.Ed., Ed.D, CCMC, NCRW

What is your opinion regarding the use of a reverse Chronological resume?

Standard resumes are reverse chronological and I use them 95 percent of the time for my clients as they paint a great picture of the job seeker's career history.
Wendi Weiner, JD, NCRW, CPRW, CCTC, CCM
It does serve the majority of job seekers and it is what recruiters and hiring managers want to see. The disadvantage is it will highlight any gaps in employment or short-term jobs.
Michelle Robin, NCRW, CPRW
The typical format for a resume is a reverse chronological style since that shows a person's most recent experience first, and a potential employer will expect to see a trail of increasing responsibility with each job/position culminating with the highest level achieved to that point. If that describes a person's career trajectory and supports the target for the next job, the reverse chronological style is the one to use. It is also the style that most employers prefer to see.
Beate Hait, CPRW, NCRW

What is your opinion regarding the use of a Functional resume?

Never use it. Functional resumes are most often viewed as hiding gaps in employment.
Bob Janitz, NCRW
It is rare that I use this format. However in the case when someone is coming back to the workforce after a long period of time, it does a great job of highlighting relevant skills and accomplishments. I do warn anyone using this format though that they will not be finding a job through traditional methods. The functional format lends itself best to finding jobs through your network. You need to be all on board with that idea before going forward with this format.
Michelle Robin, NCRW, CPRW

What is your opinion regarding the use of a Dateless resume?

Stay away from a resume that eliminates all dates. Recruiters and HR gatekeepers are trained to weed out these resumes as they represent red flags or indicate the candidate is trying to hide issues.
Jessica Hernandez, Certified Social Branding Analyst
I can think of only two clients in the past twenty years for whom I created a dateless resume. In one case the client had dramatic gaps in her work history due to following her military spouse as he moved from place to place. In the other, she was returning to the workforce after nearly twenty years away while raising her family. In both cases, the resume was highly effective and successful for the client. But, I would not advocate this approach unless the circumstances truly called for it.
Michelle Dumas, NCRW, CPRW
You're going to have a hard time using a dateless resume because people want to know how current your experience is. This is especially true if you are targeting a large corporation who is more traditional in their hiring methods. A resume without dates will get thrown out.
Michelle Robin, NCRW, CPRW

Is it important to have a title on a resume?

It is important. It immediately tells the reader who you are.
Bob Janitz, NCRW
Titles are absolutely important! The person reading the resume has to know why it is in their hands.
Kimberly Robb Baker, NCRW, CJSS, CMRW
Yes. I believe a title takes the place of a traditional objective statement on a resume. When you have the title you're targeting at the top of your resume, it serves two purposes. One, it helps with keywords and two, it's easy to see at a quick glance what you're aiming to do.
Michelle Robin, NCRW, CPRW

What is your opinion regarding the use of an Objective Statement?

They died out with the dinosaurs. Nobody cares what a candidate "wants," they care what a candidate can "do."
Cheryl Minnick, M.Ed., Ed.D, CCMC, NCRW
Résumés are about the employers' needs and how you as a job seeker can meet them. Objectives are about your needs and desires as a job seeker. That is an important difference to understand. I don't remember the last time I wrote an objective statement on a resume. It has really been that long.
Michelle Dumas, NCRW, CPRW
I never use an objective statement on my resumes, even for recent grads. A traditional objective statement is all about the candidate's wants, not the employer's needs. These days employers don't care what the candidate wants. They want to know what the candidate can do for them. Sometimes on a young professional's resume I'll put the word "target" in front of the title they are aiming to get. That is subtle and short enough to get the point across.
Michelle Robin, NCRW, CPRW

As a resume writer, what do you want to achieve with a Summary section?

Profiles are critical—they are above the fold, they anchor the resume, and they entice the reader. The best, most effective profiles provide an easy-to-read overview of your brand, your value, and your impact and provide proof of your performance by summarizing your accomplishments and results that will have the greatest meaning and value for your target.
Michelle Dumas, NCRW, CPRW
I want to give the employer a brief snapshot of how my client can add value, be a benefit and solve the biggest problems the company is facing. Ultimately, employers are looking for someone who can meet a particular need. The job seeker's job is to know what that need is and then make the connection between their experience/expertise and how it can meet the need of the employer.
Jessica Hernandez, Certified Social Branding Analyst
My goal is to create a unique and digestible set of data points that specifically reflect the candidate. In fact, if the recruiter or hiring manager reads only the first third of the first page, they will have all the high-level information they need about the candidate's capability, history, and potential.
Amy Adler, MBA, MA, CMRW, CCMC

How do you go about formulating a Summary paragraph or Summary statements?

To decide what to include in the Summary section, I look at job postings to determine what an employer is looking for in a candidate for a specific position. I then review my notes on the job seeker's performance record, education, training and also soft skills, since these are often mentioned in job postings, and select those elements that pertain to both the job seeker and the employer's search criteria.
Beate Hait, CPRW, NCRW
I summarize the candidate's value for the job in three to five lines as tightly as possible, getting to the core of what he offers the employer for the particular job for which they are applying. I review the job posting, company mission statement, any employee's LinkedIn profile at that company (hopefully, the same job) and complete a Google search of the company to find news articles and get a fuller understanding of what the company does, what the job "is" and what the "pain points" might be.
Cheryl Minnick, M.Ed., Ed.D, CCMC, NCRW
Summary statements should be brief, pithy, and branded. Avoid paragraphs of more than two to three lines. Consider organizing the summary by category or with a short list of accomplishments that each represent a core component of your value in the market.
Kimberly Robb Baker, NCRW, CJSS, CMRW

Do you find it important, as a resume writer, to list Core Competencies/Skills somewhere on a resume?

Yes, it's a place that's easy to scan for key competencies and is best placed right where the eye will naturally fall. These core skills can also be matching keywords to gain a greater score in an Applicant Tracking System.
Cheryl Minnick, M.Ed., Ed.D, CCMC, NCRW
These skills can be highlighted specifically in a list, but they should naturally appear in the descriptions of the individual's accomplishments.
Amy L. Adler, MBA, MA, CMRW, CCMC
I always list these immediately after the summary statement.
Bob Janitz, NCRW

When you create the employment history section of a resume, what is your approach? What are you thinking?

The best résumés are a reflection of a person, NOT just a collection of words on a piece of paper. Instead they tell a memorable story that illustrates the unique promise of value that you bring to the workplace. Your resume is not about job duties and responsibilities. Instead, it should be strategically and thoughtfully written to promote you as a solution to an employer's needs and to prove your ability to deliver ROI.
Probably, the single most important thing I do when writing the body of the resume is to focus on CAR statements. Remember that an achievement has three parts—the challenge faced, the actions you took, and the results of your action (CAR). Overall, readers will be most interested in your results, and these should be the focus of the document, but all three parts are important. The reader needs to know about your challenges to place your achievements in context. What challenges have you faced? What did you do to meet these challenges? How did this benefit your employers? The final piece of this equation is the strategic impact. The big picture of how the client had a lasting impact on the organization. I write the narrative of the resume to succinctly tell the "story" behind each position, demonstrating to the reader that the client has the ability to solve problems, fulfill goals, and meet challenges.
Michelle Dumas, NCRW, CPRW
I cut down the person's responsibilities to the absolute bare minimum. And what is in there for the scope of the job, I try to frame as much like an accomplishment as I can. I like to use data points to illustrate things like budget, revenue and direct reports. I am on a personal mission to remove the words "responsible for" from everyone's resume. No one cares what you were responsible for. They want to know what you can do for them.
Michelle Robin, NCRW, CPRW
The employment history should include the candidate's relevant experience. If the work history is longer than ten to fifteen years, I create a section called "early work experience" and briefly list older positions there.
Nelly Grinfeld, MBA, NCRW, CEIC

There are commentators that state you need only to emphasize the last fifteen years of experience (since it is the most recent and relevant) on a resume. What is your opinion?

This depends on the job seeker and the job search goals. If the older experience is relevant to what the job seeker wants to do next, then by all means include it and describe it briefly.
Nelly Grinfeld, MBA, NCRW, CEIC
That's usually true. When making that decision, ask yourself if there is anything of value in the earlier history. I almost always include a brief paragraph about early career, usually without dates. It's a part of branding a candidate. Most people are strongly influenced by their first professional experiences, and that influence is a part of what defines someone's professional brand.
Kimberly Robb Baker, NCRW, CJSS, CMRW

How important is it to quantify accomplishments on a resume? Please briefly explain.

Metrics are undeniable proof of success. Metrics in the context of challenges, actions, and results compel the hiring manager to understand the job seeker's ability to interpret and act on difficult situations.
Amy L. Adler, MBA, MA, CMRW, CCMC
A common misconception is that resumes should describe what you do in your current job and what you did in your past jobs. Actually, the most effective resumes are written from a future perspective. A resume should be full of achievements and accomplishments, and just copying a list of your job duties does not tell the reader what you actually achieved.
The strongest accomplishment statements are quantified, meaning they are measured and expressed numerically. Include measurable results in your resume; include numbers as often as possible.
Don't just say you tutored students; say how many and by how much their grades improved. Don't say you were successful; tell us exactly what results you achieved. Don't just say "increased"; tell us by what percentage. The reader will imply that you can produce similar results for them.
Nelly Grinfeld, MBA, NCRW, CEIC
Just telling the reader that my client has achievements isn't very effective unless they are presented in terms of the results and benefits they have produced for past employers. I always try to think in terms of the "so what" of the achievement. What did my client improve, save, increase, enhance, etc.? What impact did the work the client did have on the companies? I work hard to communicate the impact and ROI of my client's performance. Whenever I can, I use numbers to illustrate results (dollar figures, percentages, raw numbers, etc.), but even when I am unable to quantify achievements, the emphasis is still placed on the results and benefits of the client's work.
Michelle Dumas, NCRW, CPRW

Should a resume be written in the first person?

A resume is usually written in implied first person (first person with no personal pronouns). Some executive recruiters are used to seeing third person in the summary portion, making it more akin to an executive bio. Either is okay. Just be consistent.
Kimberly Robb Baker, NCRW, CJSS, CMRW
The resume should be written in implied first person, without using the word I. Also, omit a, the, an. Instead of saying "I led a team of 6 employees . . . " say "Led team of six . . . "—short, concise, to the point.
Nelly Grinfeld, MBA, NCRW, CEIC

Do you have any unique techniques in writing the Education section?

Often, I will use a "Focus" to match a keyword in the job posting or to illustrate to the recruiter an area of additional or focused study. For instance, "Master of Education in Educational Counseling, Supervision and Leadership (Career Counseling focus). If a job calls for a master's degree, yet the candidate has not completed the degree, I might use: Master of Business Administration in progress (54 of 60 credits completed).
Cheryl Minnick, M.Ed., Ed.D, CCMC, NCRW
There is a variety of additional information that can be included on a resume, such as: affiliations/associations, memberships, appointments (appointed positions), non-career related awards and honors, languages, and licenses, among others. How do you treat this information on a resume?
If the additional information is relevant and supports the focus of the resume, I include it. If not, I exclude it. However, if I exclude it, I will often create an "addendum" document that the client can include with the resume, or use as a leave-behind at interviews, if he or she thinks it is especially relevant for a specific position.
Michelle Dumas, NCRW, CPRW
Additional information such as those mentioned above can be listed either in its own section or included in the Summary section; it all depends on how relevant that information is to the target position and the space available in the resume. If it would serve the job seeker best to highlight certain information under a separate heading, that would be the best course of action. However, if that separate section happens to be on a new page as the only item on that page, then it's best to rethink that strategy and reformat the resume.
Beate Hait, CPRW, NCRW
If the client provides this data, it supports the job seeker's brand, and there is space for it, then I will include it. Often these kinds of information elements will help document someone's leadership skills, readiness for management roles, or career brand.
Cheryl Lynch Simpson, CMRW, ACRW, COPNS

What is your opinion about including recommendations on a resume?

I think it makes your resume stand out by using one to three quotes on a resume. It saves the recruiter time from having to go to LinkedIn to read them, or can entice a recruiter to go to LinkedIn to read more. Also, I believe it's stronger to have someone else say how great you are vs. you saying how great you are.
Michelle Robin, NCRW, CPRW
A short, impressive quote sometimes has its place on a resume; it validates the candidate, and shows the reader an "outsider's" perspective on the candidate. However, a recommendation should not be used instead of strong accomplishment statements.
Nelly Grinfeld, MBA, NCRW, CEIC
Including "pull quotes" from letters of reference or from performance reviews is a great strategy to use so others can "sing the praises of the job seeker" before the potential employer even asks for a reference. Including a link to the job seeker's LinkedIn profile—especially if that profile contains several impressive recommendations—is also a good strategy.
Beate Hait, CPRW, NCRW

What is your opinion about adding a QR code on a resume?

For a brief period of time we were using these a lot. But we also used tracking so we could tell how often the code was scanned, and the answer was: almost never. Accordingly, we don't often include them anymore unless we have a good reason to do so.
Michelle Dumas, NCRW, CPRW
For social media resumes, great—they will disappear in an ATS. The key is really what does the QR Code point the recruiter to, and why is that information not on the resume? Is it a video, a website?
Cheryl Minnick, M.Ed., Ed.D, CCMC, NCRW
Depending on what a QR code links to would determine the advisability of including that on a resume. Does it link to a website that shows the job seeker's portfolio of work, the person's LinkedIn profile or just to a website that displays the resume?
Beate Hait, CPRW, NCRW

How do you deal with employment gaps on a resume?

One strategy to minimize attention to gaps in employment is to move the dates closer to other text rather than drawing attention to dates if they are right-aligned on the page. Depending on the job seeker's circumstances, one could also briefly note what the job seeker did during the "gap" years (i.e., attending to a family member with health challenges; a sabbatical year; time devoted to professional development; stay-at-home parent). In anticipation of the question, the circumstance could also be briefly explained in the accompanying cover letter.
Beate Hait, CPRW, NCRW
Most often it's just using full years instead of the month and the year. However, when a client has a more significant gap, it depends on the reason for the gap. If they took some years off to take care of small kids, I may have a single line about that, and focus on what the person did volunteer-wise during that time.
Luckily, these days a gap is not so much an automatic red flag. Employers are more understanding. Just be honest about it. Some people even appreciate the risk you took to go out on your own for a while. I think as long as you can show you weren't stagnate and kept up with technology a gap is not a detrimental thing.
Michelle Robin, NCRW, CPRW
I have used "Personal Travel Sabbatical," and make sure to include a travel section; or I will use "Educational Sabbatical" and insert a certification or training that covers the gap; or insert a volunteer position (especially for stay-at-home parents returning to the workforce) that explains the time gap, "Teacher Assistant-Volunteer, Roosevelt Elementary School."
Cheryl Minnick, M.Ed., Ed.D, CCMC, NCRW

What is your opinion or philosophy regarding the use of color on a resume?

For most job seekers, their next career move will most likely come from a recommendation or via a networking opportunity—not through a blind online application. For this reason, it is best to create two resume versions: a "plain" version you will use to apply online, and a "fancy" version (with color, design elements, and any appropriate graphical representations) that you will use to network with. Remember that a resume with color, graphics, and fancy fonts should only be used to network with.
Nelly Grinfeld, MBA, NCRW, CEIC
My thoughts on using color on résumés has evolved over the past few years, especially now that résumés are almost always electronically submitted and viewed on screen. We are living in a culture of distraction in which we are constantly bombarded with content and information. Like it or not, people's attention spans are getting shorter. Color, when used in very selective, strategic ways, especially when you combine it with charts, graphs, and graphics that help to quickly convey complex information in easy-to-read and grasp ways, can be highly effective.
Five years ago I almost never used color because it was so unusual to see on a resume that it seemed almost jarring and flashy, in a not very flattering way. Almost like you were raising your hand and shouting "look at me, look at me" while jumping up and down. Today, I use touches of color on almost every resume, although I still tend to use muted color schemes and apply them in subtle and sophisticated ways. At the same time, I still provide my client with the same resume in a grayscale, for those situations when they think a more traditional approach would be better. But fewer of my clients are using the grayscale version. They all prefer the color.
Michelle Dumas, NCRW, CPRW

When you visually look over a resume, what are you looking at or looking for that confirms in your mind that you have written "a good one?"

I want to bring that candidate in for an interview. I can imagine meeting them and smiling. It is visually balanced with plenty of white space. I like to put the document at about 50 percent and just look at the visual balance.
Kimberly Robb Baker, NCRW, CJSS, CMRW
If the key points can be attained with a ten-second read and viewed on an iPhone—I feel it is good to go.
Virginia Franco, NCRW, CPRW

What is your opinion about the use of an infographic resume?

I think an infographic resume is best suited to job seekers in creative fields such as the arts, graphic design, visual merchandising, social media, marketing/advertising, publishing, or photography.
Beate Hait, CPRW, NCRW
I'm all for it, if it makes sense for the candidate. Someone in a traditional industry, like financial services, may get thrown out for having an infographic resume. If you do use one, you need to make sure it is clear and tells the right story. If people can't figure out the graphic, or it takes too long to connect the dots, so to speak, you're better off with a traditional resume.
Michelle Robin, NCRW, CPRW

Infographic Resume
As an infographic resume writer, when you start creating a resume for a job seeker, what are you thinking?

All clients go through a behavior-based scientific profile analysis plus a personal branding assessment. These help me understand who my client is in terms of leadership strengths and also what their brand represents. Once I have this information, I start to think about my client in images. Once I capture these images, I extract the key "must haves" and incorporate them into the document. Show personal branding/personality, metrics of some sort, languages, results, etc., recommendations from others, employment footprint, photo or caricature, and overall marketing message. I think of my client having a giant billboard on the highway and car driving by at 70 mph with a few seconds to be wowed! Every detail is meticulously thought through and each word is carefully selected. Telling a story in images is an art and when coupled with key ingredients, a powerful message is conveyed. I also think about appealing the document to both pragmatic and creative interviewers. There must be information/images for both the right and left brain.
Tina Kashlak Nicolai, PHR, CPBA, CARW
Lominger Certified (Interview Architect)

Can a CEO submit an infographic resume?

Sure . . . if he/she is trying to make a splash with an open and innovative culture. In the case of a CEO submitting a portfolio, I recommend an introduction document, an infographic, traditional line item resume, and a biography. There are also individual nuances that can be added to the CEO portfolio, but these are the basic must haves.
Tina Kashlak Nicolai, PHR, CPBA, CARW
Lominger Certified (Interview Architect)

LinkedIn
What is your opinion about the name a client should use on their LinkedIn profile? Should they use their birth name, the name they go by, or their birth name with the name they go by in quotation marks?

I recommend the name they go by in professional circles and by which their colleagues will recognize them. This should be the name they use on their resume, as well. If they wish, their birth name can be included in the summary section.
Michelle Dumas, NCRW, CPRW
LinkedIn is not a legal document, nor is your resume for that matter, so you are not required to use your legal name. I recommend clients use the name they preferred to be called as long as that coincides with what most people know them as. However, if you have a common name like Chris that can be shortened from a variety of other names, I would suggest you put your full name in quotes in the name field. They can also put a line in the summary that says "also known as" or "common misspellings" and list it there. That helps when people are searching.
Michelle Robin, NCRW, CPRW

What is your opinion about including one or two professional designations in the last name box of a LinkedIn profile?

If they are supportive of my client's career focus and goals, we include them. Like everything, I justify my choice by thinking strategically and thoughtfully about my client's career goals.
Michelle Dumas, NCRW, CPRW

How do you view the Headline section? What is your thinking when you formulate the Headline?

Be specific and use keywords that directly reflect the position you're pursuing. If you do not include specific keywords it will default to you current job title. Separate these keywords with symbols. For example:
Executive Resume Writer | C-Level Resume Writer | LinkedIn Profile Writer
Or you could create a one-line personal branding statement that clearly articulates what you do:
"I create visually engaging and interview-winning executive resumes and LinkedIn profiles for busy top-tier executives."
Jessica Hernandez, Certified Social Branding Analyst
120 characters matter. Make the most of them. Your headline should not be your job tile. Instead, it should be similar to your resume branding statement to serve as a pitch to your own personal news story.
Wendi Weiner, JD, NCRW, CPRW, CCTC, CCM
I view the headline section as a short version of the client's WhyBuyROI. If the client is unemployed, then I use the headline to showcase a key result or two. If the client is employed and looking for work passively, I use the headline to underscore their current role and achievements. For job seekers in active search mode I try to weave in industry-specific keywords along with the client's #1 preferred geographic location.
Cheryl Lynch Simpson, CMRW, ACRW, COPNS

What is your strategy regarding the use and location of keywords in a LinkedIn profile?

Relevant keywords should be found throughout all sections of your LinkedIn profile—in the headline, summary, skills, education, memberships, etc. Headline and summary are the most vital places for this. Recruiters search for keywords to find candidates on LinkedIn, so the more your profile is populated with keywords, the better your chances of being found by recruiters.
Nelly Grinfeld, MBA, NCRW, CEIC
Keywords definitely matter. I recommend utilizing them creatively and weaving them throughout the summary and headline as those are what stand out the most and are scanned by the human eye first. Consider having your own core skills section within the confines of your LinkedIn profile in the summary section.
Wendi Weiner, JD, NCRW, CPRW, CCTC, CCM
We go to great lengths to make sure the client's profile is keyword rich. While this is true of the entire profile, and I don't have any technical validation for this next statement, I've found that the keywords in the summary section, headline statement, job title fields, and the most recent one or two job description fields seem to be weighted more heavily.
Michelle Dumas, NCRW, CPRW

How do you approach or what strategy do you use when writing the Summary section to a LinkedIn profile? And, how does it differ from the Summary section of a resume?

In the summary section you have 2,000 characters to create a compelling story that demonstrates your value and sells your unique expertise. Instead of having one huge block of text, consider breaking up the information into a sub-headline, short paragraphs, and perhaps a keyword list at the end.
Your summary section should be engaging and original: Take the opportunity to showcase who you are as a professional and what makes you interesting, memorable, and extraordinary.
It should be written in the first person: LinkedIn is a place to communicate with others. When you write the summary in the first person, visitors to your profile will easily imagine what it would be like to have a conversation with you.
It should be angled toward the specific people you care about the most: Before writing a single word, you must determine who you are talking to. Recruiters? Hiring managers? Potential clients? What will this audience want to know about you? How will you capture their attention?
It should be clear on what you want the reader to do next: You must spell out to the reader what you're looking to accomplish, and what you'd like for them to do next. Give them a call to action. Even if you're a stealth job seeker, you can still be pretty clear on what you'd like to happen next, without outing yourself.
Nelly Grinfeld, MBA, NCRW, CEIC
The original purpose of LinkedIn is to cultivate connections and relationships, and to aid in networking. While the LinkedIn summary needs to have messaging and branding that is consistent with the resume, I rewrite the summary to be more personal and conversational in tone. The summary section for the LinkedIn profile is often written to reveal a bit more of the client's "story" in a more personal way than the summary section of the resume.
Michelle Dumas, NCRW, CPRW

What is your strategy and approach when drafting the Job Experience section?

Unlike a lot of LinkedIn profile writers, I believe this section should be brief based on research done into how recruiters and hiring managers read profiles. As a result, I present a one- to two-sentence overview of each role followed by their strongest achievement. I also include a brief skills section to insert relevant keywords.
Cheryl Lynch Simpson, CMRW, ACRW, COPNS
It is important that the details (job titles, companies, dates, etc.) are consistent with the resume and it is also important that the overall message and the story that we focus on is consistent with the storyline, brand, and message of the resume. It is just as important that the LinkedIn profile tells a compelling and enticing story of challenges faced, actions taken, results produced, and strategic impact, as it is in the resume. However, I usually rewrite the resume text for the LinkedIn profile, to tell the story in a more conversational tone. Sometimes I will also remove whole numbers from quantified accomplishments or tone down the story of a company in turmoil, to make it more appropriate for a wider audience. For example, telling the story of a company that was in chaos and failing, then "saved" by my client could be insulting to others who were involved in that situation. While the chaos and failure may be the absolute truth, less controversial language is called for on LinkedIn.
Michelle Dumas, NCRW, CPRW

Cover Letters
Do you employ a formula or strategy when crafting a cover letter for a client? If so, what?

I have no formula. As with everything I do, my letter-writing strategies are very tailored to the unique needs of my client. However, I will note here one of the biggest mistakes that I see job seekers make, and even other resume writers: not understanding and tailoring the letter to the audience. There are many different situations in which you might need a cover letter during your job search. For example, introducing yourself to a recruiting firm, reaching out to people in your network, responding to job announcements, or asking for an informational interview. In each of these cases, the focus of the letter and the points emphasized will be slightly different, to address the concerns of the audience. There is no such thing as one letter that is appropriate for every audience. I often write a portfolio of letters for my clients, to make sure they have a good model to use as a starting point for every situation they may encounter.
Michelle Dumas, NCRW, CPRW
A great cover letter must be short, it must address an actual person, it must be explicit in what you're applying for and why you want the job, and it must briefly summarize the value you will bring to the organization. It must help the reader connect the dots by using three to five bullet points to outline exactly how you are the best fit for the position.
Nelly Grinfeld, MBA, NCRW, CEIC
A cover letter needs to be short and to the point and yet be a customized self-marketing document for a specific position. Usually three paragraphs will suffice: intro, why the person qualifies for this position and call to action.
Beate Hait, CPRW, NCRW
First, I make sure that the cover letter presents my client's WhyBuyROI in a way that aligns with the content of the other documents I am creating for them. Second, I also align the letter with their primary job-search strategies. That is, if they plan to pursue jobs via job boards I'll write a different kind of letter than if they plan to do a lot of networking or company targeting. Third, I try to identify brand assets the client has that I can leverage in some way—testimonials about their work, articles they've written, awards they've won, unique achievements, and so on. Selecting one or two of these elements to showcase in a short cover letter can help their candidacy to stand out.
Cheryl Lynch Simpson, CMRW, ACRW, COPNS
The shorter the cover letter the better! I write an e-note style cover letter as my take on the traditional cover letter is that it's now obsolete. Think about a brief email you'd write to the employer that states your interest in the position and how/why you're a great fit. The points you use to address your fit for a role should be tied to the needs of the organization. Brief + Why + Need = the perfect e-note.
Jessica Hernandez, Certified Social Branding Analyst

What technique do you use to quickly capture the attention of the reader of a cover letter?

I front load key skills—example: a lawyer who worked for an Am Law 100 firm or graduated from a top-five law school should advise that from the outset of the cover letter to capture the reader's attention. It is all about the art of persuasion when it comes to crafting a cover letter and selecting which key traits or accomplishments stand out.
Wendi Weiner, JD, NCRW, CPRW, CCTC, CCM
You must include a customized cover letter about who you are and what unique, relevant contribution you would bring to that company. Don't send a generic cover letter: make it customized, interesting, and relevant, but keep it brief. A good cover letter is your opportunity to show genuine interest and to prove that you are qualified for the job.
Nelly Grinfeld, MBA, NCRW, CEIC
Open the letter by promising a benefit, identifying a need, illustrating industry/company insight, sharing an accomplishment or revealing your passions. Then go on to explain that this is why you are writing and expressing your interest in company Y/position X.
Norine Dagliano, BA, NCRW, CFRW/CC

What makes a cover letter persuasive or impactful?

When you speak directly to the pains of an organization and how you have solved similar pains in the past, that is what will be persuasive.
Michelle Robin, NCRW, CPRW
Statistics show that only 30 percent of cover letters are read. You want a cover letter that is not cookie cutter and instead impacts the reader by making him/her say, "Wow! This is someone who has the skills and really wants the job!"
Wendi Weiner, JD, NCRW, CPRW, CCTC, CCM

What tricks-of-the-trade do you use when writing a cover letter?

First, cover letters are trending shorter these days, so it's imperative to say more with fewer words. This can be accomplished through succinct writing that gets to the point through the use of clear language and action verbs. Second, I try to write in my client's voice. I use their language and phrasing whenever possible so the letter sounds like them rather than me (trying to sound like them). Third, I allow the client's brand and achievements to speak for themselves by getting out of their way. I view a cover letter as a brief summary of a client's career and as such this very short document must quickly hone in on what sets the client's experience apart from that of other candidates. Above all, the letter must convey why this person should be interviewed or hired rather than the next person.
Cheryl Lynch Simpson, CMRW, ACRW, COPNS

What suggestions would you pass along about writing a post-interview thank-you letter?

It's best to write a post-interview thank-you letter (or email) as soon as possible after the interview. Write one for each person on the interview team, noting an impression from the day or a follow-up comment to what was discussed, and express your continued interest in the position. Writing a short thank-you note to the receptionist would also make a great impression, since the receptionist is likely to mention the job seeker's thoughtfulness to the hiring authority.
Beate Hait, CPRW, NCRW




