





 







Politically Incorrect Guideto
 







Politically Incorrect Guide"toKevin R. C. Gutzman, J.D., Ph.D.


To Lorie, 
Who makes all things new again, 
and everything seem possible.
 







CONTENTSIntroduction Xi  Chapter 1: What Made the Constitution: Revolution and Confederation 1  The trouble begins ..."If this be treason, make the most of it"Jefferson stakes out America's rightsJefferson's view of the British Empire: A federation of independent statesGunsmoke-and fear of domestic tyrannyA state is a state is a. . .countryChapter 2: Federalism vs. Nationalism at the Philadelphia Convention 15  A constitution for the "United States"Reforming the ConfederationA vision of national government: The Virginia PlanMonarchists and nationalists and federalists-oh my!Chapter 3: Selling the Constitution 29  A rocky roadFederalists battle Republicans over the Bill of RightsIt all comes down to VirginiaBut what about The Federalist?The question of sovereignty: Never really explainedWho ratified the Constitution: "The American people" or the sovereign states?Chapter 4: Judges: Power-Hungry from the Beginning 49  Judging the judgesThe Court's first stepsThe Eleventh Amendment: Protecting the states from the Supreme CourtFinally, a Bill of Rights!
The Washington factorThe trouble with FranceWashington crusades for a whiskey taxJay's Treaty sparks controversyBreaking the law is ... against the lawThe Federalists' secret weapon: JudgesJefferson and Madison argue for states' rightsChapter 5: The Imperial Judiciary: It Started with Marshall 75  High crimes and misdemeanors aboundImpeaching Justice ChaseThe Supreme Court's march through Georgia (and Virginia)Madison's banking flip-flops"The wolf by the ear"The Dartmouth reviewThe "great Lama of the mountains" vs. MarshallMarshall finds the elastic in the Commerce ClauseMarshall nullifies the Declaration of IndependenceState sovereignty? Never heard of itMarshall finally gets one rightChapter 6: Undoing Marshall-and Undoing the Union 105  "The object and end of all government"Taney tackles the Commerce and Contracts ClausesThe War for Southern IndependenceAll men are (not really) born free and equalDred Scott v. SandfordChapter 7: The War for Southern Independence as a Constitutional Crisis 121  Taney examines "the very definition of tyranny"The Emancipation ProclamationThe "reconstruction" of the Constitution
Chapter 8: The Pro-Segregation Supreme Court 139  "Instrumentalities of the state"? Sounds like socialism to meSegregation is in the eye of the beholderSupreme logic: A corporation is like a freed slaveIt depends on your definition of "is"The income tax was unconstitutionalChapter 9: The Court vs. FDR 155  Uncle Sam wants YOU!Can you put that protest on hold until after the war?The political platform of the Supreme Court: Pro-war, pro-child laborThe Supreme Court vs. the Roosevelt DemocratsChapter 10: The Grand Wizard's Imperial Court 167  "Updating" the framersHow the Constitution got "incorporated" rather than interpretedHow the Ku Klux Klan separated church from stateThe Supreme Court vs. ChristianityChapter 11: The Court on Pornography, Crime, and Race 185  The "inarticulate roars" of the CourtFreedom of pornographyThe Supremes and criminal lawCruel and unusual punishmentBrown v. Board of Education and its offspringThe civil rights legislation of the 1960sChapter 12: The Court's Brave New World: 201  From Affirmative Action to SodomyAffirmative actionSex discrimination and the Fourteenth AmendmentThe Supreme Court and "privacy"The Supreme Court's electoral interventions
Conclusion 219  AppendicesThe Articles of Confederation 223  The Declaration of Independence 229  The Constitution of the United States 231  Acknowledgments 241  Notes 243  Index 245  
 







INTRODUCTIONew subjects in American life are so thoroughly mystified, so completely surrounded by a myth of incomprehensibility, as the 
United States Constitution. From its earliest days, its exponentschiefly lawyers and judges, but with a helping of other politicians, journalists, and authors of various kinds thrown in-have trained the people 
at large to believe that only the few, the specially trained "elite," can 
understand it. If court rulings "interpreting" the Constitution defy common sense, well, that must be because common sense is so ... common.In introductory lessons about America's federal government, students 
are introduced to the ideas of "republicanism," "limited government," 
and "federalism." Republicanism refers to a system in which policymakers are chosen through popular elections. Limited government and federalism are simply two sides of the same coin. They are different ways of 
understanding a system in which the states came first, delegated some 
carefully enumerated powers to a central government, and retained the 
rest for themselves.But in what sense is our federal government limited? What remains of 
the idea that power over almost all significant issues is retained by the 
states? Why is it, in other words, that issues such as homosexual sodomy, 
abortion, and affirmative action-not to mention prayer in schools and 
the outcome of the 2000 presidential election in Florida-are decided by federal judges? What ever happened to republicanism, limited government, and federalism?
In recent decades, numerous judges-and particularly the Platonic 
guardians on the Supreme Court-have undertaken to use the Constitution as a blank check allowing them to write into American law their own 
ideas of "the evolving standards of decency that mark the progress of a 
maturing society," as Chief Justice Earl Warren put it in Trop v. Dulles 
(1958). Note the allusion to Darwin's theory of evolution here: if the 
judges' conceptions of decency differ from those of all their predecessors, 
then today's judges must be superior to their predecessors, because they 
have "evolved" within their "maturing" society. And of course, if the 
judges' ideas differ from those of the majority of the electorate, that only 
shows how much further the judges have evolved and how superior they 
really are.This is not to say that every federal judge, or every judge on the 
Supreme Court, fancies himself a Platonic guardian. But it is to say that 
judges face few constraints on foisting their own views on the people as 
"constitutional law." Yet for a judge today disinclined to legislate "constitutional law," the obstacles to self-restraint are formidable. First, he 
will have to deal with the criticism, and, if he is consistent, eventually 
with the derision of the media, of politicians, and of legal academics. Second, and perhaps more important, he will have to escape from the mode 
of thought inculcated in him by his legal education.For a century now, instruction in American law schools has focused 
on the "case method." Prospective lawyers do not study the continental, 
English, and colonial antecedents of the federal Constitution. Neither do 
they read the records of the Philadelphia Convention of 1787, where the 
Constitution was written, or the ratification debates that led to its implementation. Instead, they imbibe the latest opinions on constitutional matters from the courts, and particularly from the Supreme Court. Those opinions, and not the Constitution's text as understood by the people 
when they ratified it, are what law schools teach as "constitutional law."
This "law" is the product, to a large degree, of the political preferences 
(refracted through the constitutional "theories") of judges and lawyers. It 
has almost nothing to do with history or with the original understanding 
of particular provisions. Thus, asked by a student why his constitutional 
law class would not be reading any of The Federalist, a famous constitutional law professor at an elite law school responded that The Federalist 
had nothing to do with constitutional law. The sad thing is that the professor was right, because today's "constitutional law" is not constitutional 
at all.Even "originalist" judges' application of the Constitution to real cases, 
as we will see, is far removed from Thomas Jefferson's test of the Constitution's meaning: "the true sense in which it was adopted by the States, 
that in which it was advocated by its friends." Jeffersonian judges have 
seldom dominated the Supreme Court-certainly not in the last threequarters of a century.This book's goal is to explain how the Constitution was understood in 
the first place and then to chronicle the federal courts' history of dealing 
with it. It will show how we went from the Constitution's republican federal government, with its very limited powers, to an unrepublican judgeocracy with limitless powers. The approach is historical-to see the 
Constitution as we should see it, in its original context, as it was originally understood, and to chart, over the course of two centuries, how we 
got from there to here. Perhaps more than anything else, The Politically 
Incorrect GuideTM to the Constitution provides further illustration of the 
old adage that "absolute power corrupts absolutely."
 








Chapter One










WHAT MADE THE CONSTITUTION: 
REVOLUTION AND 
CONFEDERATIONby do we have a federal constitution, anyway? Before we 
can understand the Constitution's meaning, we have to have 
an idea of its purpose. There were twenty-six British 
colonies in the New World when the American Revolution began. They 
had distinct histories, and they had been founded for distinct purposes, 
at distinct times, by distinct groups of people.The British government essentially displayed an attitude of "benign 
neglect" toward the American colonies, including the thirteen that ultimately joined together in 1775 to fight for their rights. It did not, for the 
most part, legislate regarding their internal affairs, and it did not tax them 
internally.Each of the colonies had its own government, including a governor and 
an assembly with a representative element. The colonists grew accustomed to considering their colonial governments as analogous to the 
British government in England: the British had their king, House of Lords, 
and House of Commons (made up of elected members), while Virginia, 
for example, had its appointed governor, its Council, and its House of 
Burgesses (the first elective assembly in the New World).Colonial charters, which described how the government of a particular 
colony worked, often included guarantees to the colonists of their rights. 
Thus, Virginia's charter said that King James I's colonists there would have all the rights of his subjects in England. When one governor of colonial 
Virginia left office, a new one, with a new commission, replaced him. 
These commissions often included new guarantees of the colonists' English rights. People in Virginia-the first, largest, and most populous 
colony-sanguinely enjoyed their ongoing status as Englishmen.
Guess what?-40 The American 
colonists fought to 
rid themselves of 
an intrusive 
government they 
couldn't control. 
(Does that remind 
you of nine 
unelected oracles 
in robes?)-sW The Articles of 
Confederation were 
not designed to 
create a new 
nation, but to 
protect the rights 
of the states that 
were joined as the 
United States.
The trouble begins ...Well, not entirely as Englishmen: they had no representation in Parliament and after the middle of the seventeenth century could not export 
goods from Virginia without transshipment through England. This regulation of commerce, as it was called in those days, seemed a small price 
to pay for inclusion in the British Empire-which benefited colonists and 
denizens of the home islands alike.None of this is to suggest, however, that there was never conflict 
between the colonies and England over events in the New World. There 
certainly was. In the 1750s, Virginians bridled at the attempt of one of 
their governors to charge them for land patents in the Pistole Fee Controversy. The elected House of Burgesses insisted to the royally appointed 
governor that he had no authority to tax the colonists and that this new 
fee amounted to a tax. In the end, the governor backed down.The real theoretical difficulty arose in the 1760s when Britain won the 
Seven Years' War (1756-1763), which in America was called the French 
and Indian War (1754-1763). This first world war had begun with a skirmish started by a young Virginia militia major named George Washington. Victory in the war proved a mixed blessing for Great Britain.On one hand, the British had seized much of France's colonial empire, 
including Canada. On the other, they had done so chiefly through the 
invention of modern deficit finance, which allowed them to buy the latest warships in numbers the French (who had far more men and natural 
resources than Britain) could not match.
So, in the end, Britain had acquired a greater empire and a huge debt. 
While people throughout the Empire (including in the thirteen American 
colonies) celebrated their victory, the question arose: what was to be done 
about the debt?The period 1763-1775 was marked by repeated British efforts to get 
some money, any money, out of the colonists to help service the new 
imperial debt. While the colonists had willingly provided men and 
money, along with various supplies, to the war effort, they proved unwilling to be taxed directly. As the New York Assembly put it in a 1764 petition to the British House of Commons, New Yorkers had been willing to 
provide money when asked to do so, and even to provide more than had 
been requested, but they would not accept being taxed by a legislaturethe British Parliament-in which they were not represented.At first, arguments against Parliament's taxing the colonies were presented in a conciliatory way. After all, the colonists were British and enthusiastically patriotic. It was only yesterday that they had won the 
first world war against Britain's most powerful rival. They were persuaded that the unwritten British constitution was the world's finest. 
They had defeated papist France, with its absolute monarchy, because 
they were free-and, many believed, because God favored their Protestant nation.
Holy Pistole!In 1752, Lieutenant Governor Robert Dinwiddie tried to charge a pistole-a coin valued at a little 
more than one English pound-for signing any land patent. The governor's signature had always 
been required, but no governor had ever tried to charge for it. Virginians were outraged and created the slogan "Liberty, Property, and No Pistole" in protest. Dinwiddie claimed that the pistole 
fee was his prerogative as the king's representative, but the people argued that it was a tax on 
them without the consent of their elected representatives in the General Assembly. Dinwiddie 
said the colonists were "much inflam'd...with republican Principles" and wondered if they were 
becoming a threat to his royal authority because they had been allowed to govern themselves for 
too long.'
But the colonists would not pay taxes to a Parliament they had not 
elected. They protested, they boycotted, they bullied representatives of 
the Crown, and they organized a congress, the Stamp Act Congress, to 
speak formally for them. But the British, for their part, would not respond 
to the Congress. King George III believed that the colonies must be either 
subject to the King-in-Parliament or independent; he would make them 
comply.In the course of the 1760s and 1770s, Britain sent home New York's 
legislature, reorganized Massachusetts's government, closed Boston's 
port, restricted access to trial by jury, and adopted various other laws 
intended to make it easier to tax the colonists. The colonists' response 
was a more and more heartfelt "No!""If this be treason, make the most of it"In Virginia, a young member of the House of Burgesses named Patrick 
Henry offered his colleagues a set of resolutions. He wanted the elected 
representatives of America's most important colony to go on record in 
opposition to the Stamp Act of 1765-a British tax measure-and he 
wanted them to do it in a radical way.Henry's resolutions against the Stamp Act, later known as the Virginia 
Stamp Act Resolves, said that Virginians had always had, from their 
colony's settlement, "all the privileges and immunities" of "the people of 
Great Britain." Virginia's two royal charters of the seventeenth century, 
Henry pointed out, had made that guarantee. Moreover, Virginians had always "enjoyed the right of being thus governed by their own Assembly 
in the article of taxes and internal police."
Henry would have had the Burgesses resolve that "the General Assembly of this colony, together with his Majesty... have ... the only exclusive 
right and power to lay taxes and imposts upon the inhabitants of this 
colony; and that every attempt to vest such power in any other person or 
persons whatever... is illegal, unconstitutional, and unjust, and has a 
manifest tendency to destroy British as well as American freedom." 
Along this same line, he insisted that "his Majesty's liege people, the 
inhabitants of this colony, are not bound to yield obedience to any law or 
ordinance whatever, designed to impose any taxation whatsoever upon 
them, other than the laws or ordinances of the General Assembly aforesaid." His final proposed resolution held that "any person who shall, by 
speaking or writing, assert or maintain that any person or persons, other 
than the General Assembly of this colony, have any right or power to 
impose or lay any taxation on the people here, shall be deemed an enemy 
to his Majesty's colony."This was stern stuff. To be recognized as an 
enemy to the colony opened the door to punishment for treason. Clearly, Patrick Henrywho would dominate Virginia politics for 
decades to come-believed that Virginians' 
chief right was the right to govern themselves 
through their General Assembly. Yet his was 
still a minority position in America, even 
among Virginia's political elite.What a 
Patriot Said"Let those flatter who 
fear, it is not an 
American art."Thomas Jefferson, 
A Summary View of the 
Rights of British AmericaReflecting most colonists' hope for reconciliation, the Stamp Act Congress of 1765 
adopted far more restrained language. Led by 
Pennsylvania's conservative statesman John Dickinson, the Congress 
began by saying that the congressmen (from nine of the colonies) loved the king and his family. Next, they said that the colonists had all the 
duties of Englishmen. Only then did they get around to insisting that they 
had the rights of Englishmen. After explaining that they insisted on traditional English rights, including the right to be taxed only by their own 
representatives, this first American congress closed by saying that the 
resolves had been adopted out of duty, to call to the king's attention a 
budding threat to the British constitution.
In the wake of colonial boycotts, intimidation of stamp agents, and formal protests, the British repealed the Stamp Act in 1766. They then 
passed a new law, the Declaratory Act, in which they claimed authority 
to legislate for the colonies "in all cases whatsoever."Britain's Parliament here followed the line of thinking laid out by the 
all-time leading British legal scholar, Sir William Blackstone. In his fourvolume 1765 book, Commentaries on the Laws of England, Blackstone 
explained a concept called "sovereignty."In every society, Blackstone wrote, there must be a sovereign. It could 
be an individual, a committee, an assembly, or any other type of organization, but there had to be one. That sovereign had ultimate authorityits decisions were final. It had to be unitary-its power could not be 
shared or limited in any way. And in the British Empire, that sovereign 
was Parliament.In the Declaratory Act, then, Parliament did not claim anything new. 
In England, if you favored liberty, you favored parliamentary sovereignty. 
The historical alternative, after all, had been royal sovereignty, and 
Britain's constitution had resolved against it.Jefferson stakes out Americas rightsIn 1774, a Virginia planter named Thomas Jefferson spelled out the 
colonists' position in very fiery language. It followed a decade of contention between Parliament and the colonists, a decade marked by increasingly ham-fisted British measures like the Coercive Acts against 
Massachusetts and increasingly pugnacious responses by a growing 
American opposition.
Jefferson's pamphlet came to be known as A Summary View of the 
Rights of British America. Building on a tradition of insistence on local 
self-government peculiar to Virginia, and borrowing especially from his 
mentor in constitutional matters, Richard Bland, Jefferson flung the 
gauntlet at King George's feet.You, King George, he said, are merely a functionary put in your office 
for our good, "no more than the chief officer of the people." And if you 
ever ceased to serve our purposes, we would be justified in replacing you. 
"Let those flatter who fear," Jefferson said, "it is not an American art."According to Jefferson's version of colonial history, the colonies in 
North America had been founded by Britons exercising their natural right 
to emigrate. Once they had emigrated to a land still unsettled, they had 
had a right to establish new civil societies. The British Empire, Jefferson 
claimed, could be a happy one if its constituent parts-the various dominions-were kept in balance. Only the king was in a position to 
ensure that that happened. As Jefferson had it, each part of the EmpireConnecticut, Virginia, Great Britain, Jamaica, and so on-had its own 
local legislature. The only political institution they had in common was 
the Crown: their common monarch, George III.
Portrait of a PatriotThomas Jefferson (1743-1826) was the clearest expositor among leading figures 
of the original understanding of the Constitution. Jefferson did not participate 
in drafting or ratifying the Constitution, except insofar as he influenced James 
Madison to agree to work for a bill of rights in the first Congress. Yet his 1791 memorandum to President George Washington regarding the constitutionality of the Bank Bill laid out the most cogent of 
arguments in favor of a respectful (opponents say "strict") construction of constitutional language, 
and his 1798 Kentucky Resolutions summarized the state sovereignty version of the Constitution in 
its most powerful form. Jefferson's 1801 electoral triumph swept his Republicans into power for a 
quarter-century and more, on the basis, he said, of the state sovereignty position!
In case the legislature of one part of the Empire should try to coerce 
another part of the Empire into surrendering some of its rights, Jefferson 
said, it was incumbent upon King George to intervene. He could veto Parliament's legislation if it violated colonists' rights, and Jefferson seemed 
to be threatening the king to act on the colonists' behalf.Jefferson's view of the British Empire: 
A federation of independent statesJefferson's vision of the British Empire in 1774 featured a strong federal 
element; that is, to his way of thinking there was no national government 
ruling the whole Empire, but instead provincial assemblies in each of the 
king's dominions. In reference to the British Parliament's suspension of 
New York's assembly, Jefferson referred to the latter as a "free and independent legislature" and equated it in that sense to Parliament.And what was Parliament? According to Jefferson, it was "a body of 
men foreign to our constitutions, and unacknowledged by our laws." 
George III maintained a common foreign and defense policy for the 
Empire. But in matters of local import, the people, through their elected 
assemblies, should rule themselves.In common with other educated men of the eighteenth century, Jefferson was well versed in the classical Greek and Latin authors. For him, as 
for the Greeks, freedom was local self-government. He closed his Summary View with the claim that "the god who gave us life gave us liberty 
at the same time; the hand of force may destroy, but cannot disjoin them." George III should "interpose ... to establish fraternal love and harmony 
thro' the whole empire."
How did the king respond? He never accepted the American colonists' 
constitutional claims. He subscribed instead to the theory described by 
Blackstone in 1765: Parliament was sovereign throughout the Empire, 
which meant that its authority could not be limited or divided. The 
colonists might insist that Britain's constitution did not grant Parliament 
the power to tax them or deprive them of the right to trial by jury, but the 
king held that Parliament could legislate for everyone in the British 
Empire "in all cases whatsoever." Parliamentary sovereignty left no room 
for an assertion of individual or colonial rights.Gunsmoke-and fear of domestic tyrannyThe fighting began at Lexington, Massachusetts, on April 19, 1775. Still, 
only a minority of colonists thought of independence as desirable. It was 
a daunting prospect: a declaration of independence meant war, which the 
colonists might well lose.Even if they won, the colonists would have a victorious army and a 
conquering general, which had always been a formula for military dictatorship as a precursor to monarchy. And leaving the British Empire 
would mean being outside the protective tariff wall behind which the 
British economy had developed, instead of inside it, where the colonies 
had become so prosperous.Early in 1776, however, Thomas Paine published his pamphlet Common Sense. He moved the majority of his fellow colonists from the Loyalist and undecided columns into the Patriot camp.On May 15, 1776, Virginia's ruling revolutionary convention, the May 
Convention, adopted three resolutions:1. Virginia must have a declaration of rights.
2. Virginia must have a republican constitution.3. Virginia must seek federal relations with such other colonies 
as wanted them and alliances with whichever foreign powers 
would enter into them.The delegates then ran a Continental Union flag up the flagpole at the 
old Virginia capitol in Williamsburg. As James Madison wrote that night, 
Virginia had established its independence!But alone. And, as Benjamin Franklin famously put it in another context, the Patriots must all hang together, or they would surely all hang 
separately. So the Virginia Convention (Virginia's ruling body in the Revolution's early days, as the last royal governor had fled the colony) 
instructed Virginia's representatives in the Second Continental Congress 
to secure a declaration of American independence.A state is a state is a ... countryThe Congress was, as Massachusetts's John Adams put it, a meeting place 
of ambassadors. In fact, the word congress had always denoted assemblies of the representatives of sovereigns-as in the case of the Congress 
of Westphalia in the seventeenth century. It made sense, then, when Virginia's Richard Henry Lee stood up to move, in language given to him by 
the Virginia Convention, that Congress should declare "that these United 
Colonies are, and of right ought to be, free and independent states, that 
they are absolved from all allegiance to the British Crown, and that all 
political connection between them and the state of Great Britain is, and 
ought to be, totally dissolved."Like the word congress, the word state had a meaning in the eighteenth 
century that may be lost on us today. For a Virginia congressman to say 
that Virginia was a state was to put it on par not with Brittany in France 
or Yorkshire in England, but with France and England. Congress responded by appointing a committee to draft a declaration of independence.
The chairman of the committee, John Adams, had long been the leading spokesman (a tireless pest, really) for independence. As Adams 
admired A Summary View of the Rights of British America, he asked 
Thomas Jefferson to write the first draft of the Declaration. Adams and 
Ben Franklin made slight alterations to it before the committee presented 
it to the whole Congress.And what did the Declaration declare? 
That the colonies were independent states. 
Politicians and historians have made a habit 
of fixating on the second paragraph of the 
Declaration, which includes a restatement of 
Richard Bland's account of the origin and 
just powers of government (including the 
statement "We hold these truths to be selfevident..."). They say that America was 
founded on that. But it wasn't.In instructing Richard Henry Lee and his 
colleagues to secure a declaration of independence, the Virginia Convention did not tell them to concoct a new theory of government. (The same 
held true for the other states' representatives.) The first three sections of 
the Declaration-which explained why King George III's stewardship had 
been found wanting-had no legal effect. That portion of the Declaration 
was what lawyers call "hortatory" language: like a statutory preamble, it 
was the predicate for the effective section-the one that proclaimed the 
states independent.In the Declaration's culminating fourth section, Congress declared the 
colonies to be "free and independent states" and claimed for them the 
right to do everything that free countries could do. They were the sovereign equivalents of Russia, Sweden, and Spain. (Okay, maybe San Marino and Monaco, but you get the idea.) As the war progressed, they continued to behave as if they were. They guarded their sovereignty carefully, 
never giving to Congress authority that they might be unable to reclaim.
The Old Dominion Paves 
the WayVirginia established its independence on 
May 15, 1776-long before the Declaration 
of American Independence.
In 1777, Congress sent out to the states for their ratification the Articles of Confederation, America's first federal constitution. It began by saying, "Articles of Perpetual Union between the states of..." and listed the 
states, from north to south. Article I said, in full, "The Stile [sic] of this 
Confederacy shall be `The United States of America.'" Article II added, 
"Each state retains its sovereignty, freedom, and independence, and every 
power, jurisdiction, and right, which is not by this Confederation 
expressly delegated to the United States, in Congress assembled."This language is, under the circumstances, entirely unsurprising. It 
would have been surprising if they had said anything else. The United 
States were states, and they had joined together. The fact that their union 
had no set end date, in part because the length of the war could not be 
foreseen, was denoted by calling it "perpetual." (In those days treaties 
between European states often purported to be "perpetual." This did not 
mean that neither side could bring a treaty agreement to an end, but that 
there was no built-in sunset provision.) The express reservation of each 
state's undelegated powers was a hedge against arrogation of power by the Confederation. After all, the new Congress under the Articles was to 
have an army, so it might well be tempted to intrude on the states' prerogatives. It was for this reason that Article II noted that sovereigntyindivisible final authority-remained in the states.
What a Patriot Said"America was conquered, and her settlements made, and firmly established, at the 
expence of individuals, and not of the British public. Their own blood was spilt 
in acquiring lands for their settlement, their own fortunes expended in making 
that settlement effectual; for themselves they fought, for themselves they conquered, and for themselves alone they have right to hold."Thomas Jefferson, A Summary View of the Rights of British America
According to Article III of the Confederation, the thirteen states entered 
into this formal relationship "for their common defense, the security of their 
liberties, and their mutual and general welfare." In keeping with the federal 
(not national) nature of the new government, Article V provided that each 
state's congressional delegation would have one vote. This provision would 
not have made sense if the thirteen states had been one nation, or if their 
people had been one people. As they were thirteen distinct states, each 
equally sovereign, however, it made sense for them each to carry equal 
weight in the federal councils. (Here again, we must recall that the word 
state in the eighteenth century connoted a sovereign entity on the order of 
Spain or France, not a province like Andalusia or Dauphine.)Articles VI and VII bound the states to wage war and carry on diplomacy only through the Confederation. Article VIII said that the expenses 
of the war would be paid out of a common treasury into which the states 
would contribute on the schedule Congress set, but it left to the states the 
task of deciding what taxation scheme to employ to raise their contributions. As the colonists had insisted that Great Britain allow the states sovereignty over taxes, it was incumbent on them to practice what they 
preached in their own confederation.Article IX established procedures for resolving boundary disputes and 
other matters that might easily have brought the states to blows. It also 
provided that the Congress could not take major steps such as coining 
money, borrowing money, appointing a commander in chief, and making 
war unless nine states agreed to do so. Not majority rule but a supermajority was required for doing any of those things.Article XIII, finally, required the consent of all the states to any 
amendment of the Articles. Again, while the constitution of a national government could, presumably, be amended by a national majority, a federal constitution, such as the Articles of Confederation created, required 
the agreement of all the constituent parts-all the states. This last article 
also included the Congress's thanks to "the Great Governor of the World" 
(no, not the UN) for the states' ratification. It said that it was effective on 
the "ninth day of July in the Year of our Lord One Thousand Seven Hundred and Seventy-Eight."
To anyone familiar with the form of the dispute between the colonists 
and the mother country over the previous decade, the various elements 
of the Articles of Confederation described above cannot be surprising. 
The colonists had insisted for years that their colonial legislatures alone, 
not the British Parliament, could tax them. When Parliament had insisted 
that it alone was sovereign, and that sovereignty was ultimate power, the 
colonies had responded by locating sovereignty in their colonial legislatures. The colonists saw themselves as defending their traditional English rights. They believed that to defend their traditional rights from an 
overweening British Parliament it was necessary for the colonies to 
declare themselves "free and independent states." Now, in order to formalize the military alliance that was fighting the Revolution, they opted 
not to merge their thirteen societies into one, but to cooperate so much 
as seemed necessary to win the war.
 








Chapter Two










FEDERALISM VS. NATIONALISM AT 
THE PHILADELPHIA CONVENTIONhile the Revolution absorbed much of the attention of the 
Continental Congresses, and later the Confederation Congress, other issues demanded attention as well during the 
1770s and 1780s. Among those was the pressing need to provide some 
type of governance for the larger colonies' western lands.The boundary of English settlement at the end of the French and 
Indian War in 1763 was, essentially, the peaks of the Appalachian Mountains. In fact, King George III issued a proclamation that year banning his 
subjects from settling beyond those peaks. He did not want further difficulties with the Indians who had sided with the French during the war.For many wealthy colonists, this royal decree came as a great shock. 
From John Hancock in Massachusetts to Ben Franklin and the Morrises 
in the middle states, from George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, Patrick 
Henry, and George Mason in Virginia to the Laurenses in South Carolina, 
many wealthy people owned land claims beyond the Appalachians. And 
the king had made those claims worthless.Thus one of the first things the elite class did upon independence was 
resuscitate its land titles-or at least, its purported land titles. As it 
turned out, the colonies' inland claims often overlapped, and so did the 
titles the great men thought they owned.Guess what?-.' In the Treaty of 
Paris ending the 
Revolution, King 
George III 
recognized the 
independence not of 
a single American 
nation, but of 
thirteen "states' 
(eighteenth-centuryspeak for "nations").-sue The delegates 
rejected attempts by 
monarchists and 
nationalists in the 
Philadelphia 
Convention of 1787 
to create a national 
(rather than a 
federal) government.
So far as Virginia was concerned, what we now call the Midwest 
belonged to it. In fact, colonial Virginia included not just today's Virginia, 
but also West Virginia, Kentucky, Ohio, Michigan, Indiana, Illinois, Wisconsin, and part of Minnesota. Augusta County, the western county that 
took in that vast expanse, was the biggest county in history.When Congress sent the Articles of Confederation to the states for their 
ratification in 1777, twelve ratified. But Maryland held out. Why? Marylanders said that they would never agree to join in a permanent confederation with Virginia so long as it maintained its enormous western land 
claims.Congress periodically attempted to resolve the title disputes and the 
boundary issues. However, Virginia congressmen, including George 
Mason, James Madison, and James Monroe, responded that there was 
nothing in the Articles of Confederation giving Congress authority to say 
anything about anyone's land titles in Virginia-or about the extent of Virginia's western claims. That being the case, they said, they would not 
even discuss the matter in Congress.Once again, the history of the Revolution demonstrates that the revolutionaries understood their states to be sovereign, their "nations" to 
be ... their states. If America as a whole had been a nation, and if the Confederation Congress had been a national legislature, such questions 
should have been resolved by a majority vote. But sovereignty lay in the 
states. That was the first principle of American government.A constitution for the "United States"Even before the Articles finally went into effect in 1781, numerous figures in politics and the military were agitating for a further strengthening of the federal center. These people took the name "Federalists." Their 
efforts ultimately resulted in adoption of the federal Constitution of 1788.
Why did the Federalists want a strengthened federation? Mostly 
because they thought the Revolutionary War had exposed the shortcomings of the Continental and Confederation Congresses. The Continental 
Army and the various state military units seemed perpetually short of 
men, money, and supplies. The Federalists leapt to the (false) conclusion 
that if the thirteen newborn states had had a difficult time in obtaining 
credit from European monarchies and bankers to fight a war against the 
greatest power in the world, it must have been because the Articles of 
Confederation were inadequate!The Federalists invented a litany of complaints about the state and federal governments of the revolutionary decade. They are familiar to students of history today, because historians-who tend almost 
unanimously to side with the Federalists in this dispute-have been 
echoing them ever since.A Book You're Not 
Supposed to ReadCollective Action under the Articles of Confederation by Keith L. Dougherty; New York: 
Cambridge University Press, 2001.If states were slow to pay their requisitions, then, it must have been 
because they were selfish and unpatriotic. Federalists claimed that only 
a stronger government could solve the "problem" of a government that 
just barely had enough money and coercive power to do what it was 
intended to do and did not have the 
resources to do much of anything else. 
(What a wonderful problem!)But the Federalist version leaves out 
some important facts. For instance, the total 
amount of voluntary state contributions supposedly owed to the Confederation by the 
states in 1788 exceeded the amount of gold 
and silver (that is, money) in the entire 
United States! And political scientist Keith L. Dougherty has demonstrated that the states actually contributed more to the war effort than any 
rational choice model would predict.
Federalists in the Continental and Confederation Congresses repeatedly attempted to get the states to cede more power to Congress. In each 
case, they were unsuccessful: Americans from New Hampshire to Georgia simply refused. They did not want to trade one distant, unaccountable authority in the British Parliament for another in a more powerful 
American Congress. Especially heroic on this score was little Rhode 
Island, which refused to ratify a tariff amendment when all twelve other 
states did. Virginia responded by repealing its ratification, and for Federalists, that was the last straw.The campaign for a stronger federal government grew-even when 
King George III admitted defeat. But he admitted defeat to the "sovereign 
and independent states." As Article I of the Treaty of Paris put it, "His 
Britannic Majesty acknowledges the said United States, viz., New Hampshire, Massachusetts Bay, Rhode Island and Providence Plantations, Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, 
Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia, to be free, sovereign and independent States; that he treats with them as such, and for 
himself, his heirs and successors, relinquishes all claims to the Government, propriety and territorial rights of the same, and every part thereof." 
Note that King George was required by the terms of the treaty not to admit 
that "America" was independent or that "the United States" was independent, but that the thirteen named states were independent.Interestingly, in Article V, the American commissioners undertook on 
behalf of Congress to implore the states to restore confiscated rights and 
property to Loyalists. This provision, which never bore the fruit the 
British hoped for, recognized the constitutional situation of the American states-independent not only of Great Britain, but also of each other. 
Article VII said that there would be a "perpetual" peace between Great 
Britain and the United States-which meant that the treaty did not have 
a fixed expiration date.
Reforming the ConfederationIn 1785, the states of Maryland and Virginia appointed delegates to a conference to meet at George Washington's home, Mount Vernon, on the 
Potomac River. Their task was to negotiate an arrangement for sharing the 
river-establishing each state's navigation and taxing rights. The conference failed-Virginia's delegates didn't show-but a new meeting was set 
for the following year at Annapolis. This time, the goal was a reform of 
the Confederation.When only five states sent delegates to the Annapolis Convention of 
1786, leading figures like Alexander Hamilton of New York and James 
Madison of Virginia called for a new convention to take place the following summer in Philadelphia.Why would a new convention meet in 1787? The Federalists told the 
state governments that its purpose would be to propose amendments to 
the Articles of Confederation. Rhode Island, which had no interest in strengthening the Confederation, did not send a delegation. New York, 
where Governor George Clinton and the majority of the legislature were 
skeptical of the Federalists, sent a moderately pro-reform three-man delegation. (Nationalist Alexander Hamilton received an appointment, but 
his friend and political ally John Jay missed out.)
Portrait of a PatriotAlexander Hamilton (1757-1804), a native of Nevis, was among the most significant figures in American constitutional history. His monarchist musings in 
the Philadelphia Convention (in which he represented New York) did not have 
much effect on the shape of the Constitution. In support of ratification, he organized the series of 
newspaper essays that ultimately came to be known as The Federalist, which formed the nub of the 
Federalist case in New York, writing more than half the essays. In time, the series would form the 
backbone of nationalist interpretation of the Constitution. As secretary of the treasury under Washington, Hamilton enunciated the clearest argument ever made for a liberal (loose) construction of 
the Constitution. He was killed by a political enemy, Vice President Aaron Burr, in an 1804 duel.'
In Virginia, which agreed to send a delegation to help propose amendments, Richard Henry Lee and Patrick Henry-long the dominant voices 
in the all-powerful General Assembly-stayed home. Lee confided that 
he did not think the convention likely to do 
work he approved; Henry, more prone to 
offer up a memorable line, later said he 
"smelt a rat."Why? There was a little history behind it. 
Congress had been receptive, in 
1785-1786, when John Jay assured it that he 
could negotiate an agreement with Spain that 
would grant the states valuable trade concessions in the Caribbean. All he needed to offer 
in return, he said, was an American commitment to forgo use of the Mississippi River (which then belonged to Spain) 
for twenty-five years. Under the Articles of Confederation, nine states 
needed to agree to any treaty, but Congress authorized Jay to negotiate the 
agreement anyway, despite the objections of the five southern states.According to James Madison, this move by Congress converted Patrick 
Henry from "the Champion of the federal cause" to a lukewarm advocate 
at best. If Mississippi navigation rights were actually surrendered, Madison said, Henry would become an outright opponent.The year 1787 also saw the Confederation Congress adopt its most significant legislative initiative, the Northwest Ordinance. In that law, Congress provided that states could be carved out of Virginia's former 
trans-Ohio River territory (what we now call the Midwest). Among other things, it said in Section 13 that once they had been organized, the new 
states would be admitted to the Union on an equal footing with the original states. The federal principle-the principle of state equality-would 
guide their incorporation into the United States.
Legal LatinismsSenate: from the Latin senatus, the great 
national council of the Roman people. 
The federal government and most of the 
states have legislative bodies so named!
A vision of national government: The Virginia PlanJames Madison spent several months researching the history of confederations before the Philadelphia Convention met. He found much to 
encourage his desire for a stronger federation. He decided, in fact, to push 
for the abandonment of America's federal experiment.Madison, a veteran of many legislative battles in Virginia and in Congress, encouraged his fellow Virginia delegates-Governor Edmund Randolph, George Washington, and George Mason among them-to arrive in 
Philadelphia several days early. If the Old Dominion presented its plan 
at the beginning of the convention, he thought, that blueprint would 
guide the convention's deliberations.Thus, when the Philadelphia Convention opened, its first acts were to 
install George Washington as president of the convention, to vote to close 
the doors so that the public would not know what was being discussed, 
and to take up the constitutional proposals on which the Virginians had 
agreed. Those provisions came to be called the Virginia Plan.The Virginia Plan was the outline of a national government. It would 
have substituted a central government with all the power national officials could want for the federal government of the Confederation. This 
was a type of government to which the people were known to be aversewhich explains why the Philadelphia Convention operated in secret, and 
why its minutes, like James Madison's famous notes, were kept secret for 
decades after the event.Fortunately for us, there were delegates to the Convention who kept 
notes of what was said up to the point of their departure. Most notable are those of New York delegate Robert Yates, one-time chief justice of the 
Empire State. He tells us that Virginia's governor, Edmund Randolph, 
explained the Virginia proposals' rationale with three resolutions:
1. Resolved, That a union of the States merely federal, will not 
accomplish the objects proposed by the articles of the confederation, namely, common defence, security of liberty, and general welfare. 2. Resolved, That no treaty or treaties among any 
of the States as sovereign, will accomplish or secure their common defence, liberty, or welfare. 3. Resolved, That a national 
government ought to be established, consisting of a supreme 
judicial, legislative, and executive.As Yates explains matters, another delegate objected at that point that 
the goal of the Convention was to propose amendments to the Confederation, not to create a national government. If it adopted the first two resolutions, then, the Convention would be at an end. When asked what the 
third resolution meant by the word "supreme," the answer was that the 
states should yield when they conflicted with the federal government. 
Six states voted for that resolution, which was thus temporarily adopted. 
Over the following days, the Convention adopted resolutions about a 
"national" legislature and a "national" executive. The limit of the Convention's nationalism in its early days was reached when James Wilson 
of Pennsylvania proposed multi-state districts for the Senate and the Convention rejected his proposal.Monarchists and nationalists and federalists-oh my!It may be useful to note at this point that there were three parties in the 
Convention. The first was a monarchist party, the chief exemplar of 
which was New York's Alexander Hamilton. The monarchists were intent 
on wiping the states from the map and substituting one unitary govern ment for the entire continent. In the Convention, Hamilton made a 
famous speech in which he avowed his admiration for the British constitution and said that while the American people were not prepared to 
assimilate their government to the British model so closely as he could 
wish, he owed it to himself to speak frankly. He called for a president 
with a life term, senators with life terms, and appointment of governors 
by the president-all in the manner of Great Britain. Hamilton here displayed two of his outstanding characteristics: candor and intellectual 
brilliance. Many delegates, we are told, thought very highly of Hamilton's 
learned disquisition, although none joined him in his characteristic nearsuicidal frankness.
Portrait of a PatriotGeorge Mason (1725-1792) was one of the towering figures in American constitutional history. His Virginia Declaration of Rights (1776), the first American bill 
of rights, provided a template-and in many cases language-for the other 
states', the federal, the French, the UN, and numerous other bills of rights. Mason played an 
extremely significant role in the Philadelphia Convention that wrote the Constitution, including 
helping to defeat efforts to draft a national-in lieu of a federal-constitution and insisting that the 
assent of nine states be required for ratification. He also proposed that the House of Representatives 
initiate all money bills, that Congress be able to ban slave importation, that export taxes be banned, 
that lawmakers not be able to hop into plush positions in other branches, and that the House 
resolve electoral college deadlocks. Mason played a key role in devising the procedure for overriding 
presidential vetoes, and his refusal to sign the Constitution, coupled with his resounding insistence 
that it not be ratified until a bill of rights was added, helped spur Federalists to pledge to submit a 
bill of rights to the states in the first Congress.The second party consisted of nationalists, people who-without 
ever avowing admiration for the monarchical form-wanted to push centralization as far as reasonably could be hoped. These people hoped 
to establish a centralized government largely dominated by their own 
states. Most prominent among these was Virginia's James Madison, long 
Hamilton's coadjutor in the Federalist cause, whose work the Virginia 
Plan chiefly was. In the wake of the Convention, Madison would be 
greatly dismayed by the discrepancy between what he had wanted and 
what the Convention had yielded. He repeatedly acted in positions of 
high public trust over the next four decades to bring the federal regime 
into consonance with his proposals-even to the extent of arguing that 
the Constitution meant what the Convention had squarely decided that 
it should not mean. We will return to the topic of Madison's peculiar role 
in American constitutional history again and again.
Finally, there was a cohort in the Convention of members insistent 
on proposing a reinforcement of the central government while maintaining the primary place of the states in the American polity-a truly federal, rather than national, government. They would have their way in the 
short run. In time, however, "constitutional law" would undo their victory almost completely.Early in the Convention, the committee of the whole house very narrowly agreed to create a national government with a national executive, 
a national legislative, and a national judicial branch. It also agreed that 
the national legislature ought to be empowered to legislate in all cases to 
which the separate states might be incompetent and all areas in which 
the harmony of the states might be interrupted by separate state legislation. In addition, it decided that the national legislature should have a 
veto over state laws it considered contrary to the articles of union. At this 
early stage in the convention, the committee of the whole also decided 
that the national judiciary should have power to decide all cases affecting the "national peace and harmony."How do we know these things? We can extract them from the record of 
deliberations provided by two of the delegates, Maryland's Luther Martin-who first provided the three-party classification of the delegates 
given above-and New York's Robert Yates. In addition, we have the journal of the Convention. As the Philadelphia Convention early on decided to 
create a national government with an overwhelmingly powerful national 
legislature and a very strong national judiciary, and as by the end of the Convention it had produced a federal constitution without either of those features, we are on firm ground in concluding that the change was no accident.
The Constitution as finally referred to Congress by the Convention featured a federal legislative body, or Congress, without either the sweeping 
legislative authority or the veto over state laws earlier proposed by the 
advocates of a national government (and 
supported, through the summer, by the theoretical monarchists). We know that this 
decision was a carefully considered one 
because delegate James Madison of Virginia 
repeatedly implored the other delegates to 
restore the congressional veto of state laws, 
only to see his arguments repeatedly 
rejected.Rather than wiping the states off the map, 
the Convention made their continued existence essential to the selection of members 
of Congress. First, members of the House of 
Representatives would be elected by voters eligible to vote for members 
of the relevant state legislatures. No state, no representatives. And as for 
senators, they would not be selected by the president (as Hamilton, following the model of the British House of Lords, would have preferred) or 
by the lower house of Congress (as Madison and the Virginia nationalists 
proposed), but were to be chosen by the state legislatures.Madison was very unhappy that the new Congress, like the old ones, 
would be federal, not national. He confided to Thomas Jefferson on October 24, 1787, that he feared the ongoing state role in federal policymaking meant that the new government would be too responsive to the 
people's whims. This new government would be inadequate to nationalist aims, just as the old one had been. (Madison had also broached the 
idea that Congress should be empowered to sic the U.S. Navy on states 
that did not comply with national commands. The Convention rejected 
that idea too.)
Legal LatinismsVeto: Latin for "I forbid." A refusal by the 
president or a governor to sign into law a 
bill that has been passed by a legislature. 
Unlike the British royal veto, American 
vetoes can be overridden by supermajority vote.
There were other provisions displeasing to the monarchist-nationalist 
coalition as well. Instead of saying "Congress may legislate as it will" or 
"Congress may legislate in any area to which it considers the states 
incompetent," the final Constitution carefully hedged congressional 
power.In Article I, Section 8 the draft Constitution included a list of congressional powers. Virtually all of them were related to foreign affairs and 
trade. They were also few and provided little wiggle room for expansion. 
And in the course of the ratification dispute of 1787-1788, Federalists 
from north to south promised to take a tightly constricted view of constitutional interpretation.The judiciary article of the Constitution also lived up to the hopes of 
the delegates favoring a federal over a national structure. Instead of giving 
federal courts power to hear any cases Congress wanted them to hear (that 
is, cases "affecting the national peace and harmony"), as the HamiltonMadison, monarchist-nationalist coalition had proposed, the Convention 
restricted federal courts' jurisdiction in two ways. First, the Constitution 
did not require that there be any federal trial courts at all. In fact, Madison would promise in the ratification debate in Virginia that the new government would try to get along without them. Only if that experiment 
failed, he said, would federal trial courts be created.The Constitution also provided a list of the kinds of cases Congress 
might authorize federal courts to decide-which meant, as lawyers 
understood things in those days, that Congress could not authorize federal courts to decide any other kinds of cases. Instead of a national 
judiciary, in other words-one with power to hear any case that came to 
hand-Article III created a federal judiciary and left most judicial power 
in the state governments.
Portrait of a PatriotJames Madison (1751-1836) played a major role in assembling the Philadelphia 
Convention but had a checkered constitutional record thereafter. In the Convention, Madison attempted to create a national, instead of federal, government with military power to attack states that did not comply with federal mandates, a Congress 
with unlimited legislative powers and a veto on state legislation, and courts with unlimited jurisdiction. He soon knuckled under to Virginian pressure for amendments, but he intentionally provided 
amendments without serious effect. As a congressman, he enunciated a strict constructionist reading 
of the Constitution in 1791, but he flip-flopped on congressional authority to charter banks in 1816. 
His Bonus Bill Veto Message (1817) sounded like the Madison of 1791, as did his criticism of Marshall's 
McCulloch v. Maryland decision, but his confused response to nullification was both disingenuous 
and destructive. Madison was as unpredictable an oracle as the Pythia at ancient Delphi.Not coincidentally, the various contentious issues roiling the American 
political waters today-flag burning, abortion, state government recognition of religion (say through public prayer), and homosexual marriageare not among those the federal courts were given power to decide by the 
federal Constitution written in Philadelphia. Had the Hamilton-Madison 
axis had its way, the federal courts' purview would have been greater. But 
the point is that the Hamilton-Madison axis did not prevail, and the Constitution the people ultimately ratified gives the federal courts no scope to 
interfere in or rule on these issues. Nor did the Federalists, when they 
advocated ratifying the Constitution, pretend otherwise.This might surprise those "educated" in modern "constitutional law." 
But it should not surprise anyone familiar with the factors leading to the American Revolution. After all, the people who advocated, in the 1760s 
and 1770s, a national authority to bind the states "in all cases whatsoever" were called Tories or monarchists, and they lost.
The Patriots, on the other hand, had argued for home rule, for the right 
of the individual states to govern themselves through their elected representatives. They had won the Revolution. And then they won in Philadelphia. But, alas, the fight was not over.
 








Chapter Three










SELLING THE CONSTITUTIONhe arguments that were made for ratifying the Constitution are 
yet another subject most law students aren't taught. But these 
arguments are vital to the so-called original understanding-the 
real meaning-of the Constitution.By law, Congress had to send any amendment to the Articles of Confederation to the states to be ratified. So even though the Philadelphia 
Convention was proposing more than an amendment, it sent the proposed new constitution to Congress, which forwarded it to the states for 
their consideration.A rocky roadEven before the Philadelphia Convention ended, many delegates returned 
to their states to organize opposition to the proposed constitution. They 
were bolstered when three prominent delegates, who had stayed to the 
end of the Convention on September 17, 1787, refused to sign the Convention's final product: the unamended Constitution.Among these non-signers was Virginia's governor, Edmund Randolph, 
who had presented the Virginia Plan at the beginning of the Convention. 
Randolph had many criticisms of the new Constitution, including that 
Congress's powers were not well enough defined, that the boundary between state and federal authority was not clearly demarcated, that the 
federal courts' jurisdiction had not been sufficiently circumscribed, and 
that there was no bill of rights in the Constitution guarding traditional 
rights of Englishmen against federal infringement. (Many states had their 
own bills of rights.)
Guess what?-.' Virginia's state 
constitution of 
1776 was the 
first American 
constitution (and 
the first written 
constitution adopted 
by the people's 
representatives in 
the history of the 
world).-sW There was nothing 
in the Declaration 
of Independence, 
the Articles of 
Confederation, or 
the ratification 
process of the 
federal Constitution 
that created a 
national (rather 
than a federal) 
government.
Randolph's fellow Virginia delegate George Mason also refused to sign 
the Constitution, and for similar reasons. Mason had argued that the Constitution should ban the importation of slaves immediately and that a 
congressional super-majority should be required for passage of any tariff 
law; otherwise, he said, the northern majority in Congress would abuse 
the South to favor the North's interests-as it had tried to do in changing 
John Jay's negotiating instructions with Spain in 1786. A deal between 
New England and Deep South delegates on these issues defeated Mason's 
positions-to the everlasting detriment of the country.Of more concern to Mason, however, was the omission of a bill of 
rights. Mason was the chief author of Virginia's state constitution of 
1776-the first American constitution and, more significant, the first 
written constitution adopted by the people's representatives in the history of the world. As chairman of the committee that drafted that constitution, Mason had also played the leading role in drafting the 1776 
Virginia Declaration of Rights, which-in the manner of the English Glorious Revolution of 1688-set traditional rights of Englishmen in stone 
before the new republican constitution based on them was adopted. 
Mason, a self-described "man of 1688," insisted that basic rights had to 
be protected first.When he raised the issue of a bill of rights in Philadelphia, however, 
Mason was rebuffed. A bill of rights was unnecessary, his fellow delegates 
insisted. This new government would have only the powers the Constitution gave it. As the Constitution was not going to give Congress power 
to infringe on the freedoms of speech, the press, or petition, the right to 
keep and bear arms, or any of the other English-descended rights Amer icans had always taken for granted, it would have no such power. There 
was no need, then, to provide against it.
Mason was not persuaded. As Madison wrote, he left Philadelphia in 
a very ill humor.Federalists battle Republicans over the Bill of RightsAdvocates of ratification took the name "Federalists," while their 
opponents-particularly in Virginia-called themselves "Republicans." 
Federalists called Republicans "Anti-Federalists," however, and historians, never slow to take sides, have been nearly unanimous in calling 
Republican opponents of ratification "Anti-Federalists."The chief issue in dispute in the ratification campaign was whether 
the proposed constitution would be consistent with the state-centered 
constitutionalism that the Patriots had fought for during the Revolution. 
Federalists insisted it would, while Republicans feared it would not.Framers vs. RatifiersWe hear a lot about the "framers" of the Constitution. But who were they? The framers were the 
people who wrote the Constitution; what they did had no legal effect at all. The ratifiers, on the 
other hand, were the people who put the Constitution into effect; it was their act that made it 
binding, and their understanding that is significant. Just as today we don't care what some congressman's legal counsel thought when writing a legal provision, but look instead at the congressman's own understanding of and intent regarding it, so when it comes to the Constitution, what 
matters is not what the draftsmen thought they were doing, but what the people with legal 
power to put it into effect thought they were doing.
What a 
Patriot Said"Is the relinquishment 
of the trial by jury and 
the liberty of the press necessary for your 
liberty? Will the abandonment of your 
most sacred rights tend to the security of 
your liberty? Liberty, the greatest of all 
earthly blessings-give us that precious 
jewel, and you may take every thing else! ... 
Guard with jealous attention the public 
liberty. Suspect every one who approaches 
that jewel."Patrick Henry, speech to the 
Virginia Convention, Richmond, 
Virginia, June 5,1788The most influential argument in favor of 
ratification was made by Pennsylvania's 
James Wilson in a speech at the Pennsylvania 
State House on October 6, 1787. Wilson, a 
prominent Philadelphia Convention delegate 
and future Supreme Court justice, had been a 
nationalist at the Convention, but his version 
of the Constitution on that October day was 
thoroughly federal (or, in the language of the 
day, "foederal").Wilson said opponents of the proposed 
constitution were not doing it justice, reminding the delegates that an important distinction 
needed to be made between state governments and the federal government. The people had invested their state representatives 
with "every right and authority" that the people themselves did not explicitly reserve. 
"But in delegating foederal powers," Wilson 
said, congressional authority comes "not from 
tacit implication, but from the positive grant." As a result, in the state systems, "everything which is not reserved, is given: but in the latter [the 
federal government], the reverse of the proposition prevails, and every 
thing which is not given, is reserved. The distinction being recognized, 
will furnish an answer to those who think the omission of a bill of rights, 
a defect in the proposed constitution: for it would have been superfluous 
and absurd, to have stipulated with a foederal body of our own creation, 
that we should enjoy those privileges, of which we are not divested either 
by the intention or the act that has brought that body into existence."In other words, it was ridiculous for the Constitution to guarantee 
rights that Congress had no power to violate, and the federal government had only those limited and expressly stated powers granted it by the Constitution. Wilson went further and said that including a bill of rights 
might be dangerous, because if such a bill said that Congress could not 
infringe the freedom of the press, it would imply that Congress might 
have had implicit power to do so, and that it might have the power to 
restrict other unenumerated rights.
Turning to the claim that the Constitution was intended to "annihilate" 
the state governments, Wilson said this was impossible, given that state 
legislatures were to choose the senators, the people of the several states 
were to elect the representatives, and electors selected in a fashion chosen by each state legislature were to choose the president.Other Federalists affirmed Wilson's analysis. In Massachusetts, 
William Cushing-another future Supreme Court justice-said much the 
same (that the federal government would have only the powers it was 
"expressly granted" through the Constitution) in a speech written for his 
state's ratification convention. In South Carolina, ratification opponents worried that 
the proposed constitution might threaten the 
institution of slavery. But General Charles 
Cotesworth Pinckney, a Philadelphia Convention delegate and future Federalist presidential nominee, assured his fellow 
Carolinians that "it is admitted, on all 
hands, that the general government has no 
powers but what are expressly granted by 
the constitution, and that all rights not 
expressed were reserved by the several 
states."Pennsylvania and South Carolina Federalists achieved crushing victories in those states' 
ratification conventions. In Massachusetts, Federalists needed to persuade popular governor John Hancock to support 
ratification. To do so, they promised that they would ask the first federal Congress to amend the Constitution to include a bill of rights. (Even with that 
concession, Massachusetts approved the Constitution by only a narrow margin.)
Federalists and 
Anti-FederalistsThe Federalists generally were not federalist, but nationalist.Anti-Federalists (they were actually federalist, and they called themselves Republicans) were not opposed to strengthening 
the federal government; they merely 
wanted to amend the Constitution before 
ratifying it.
The pivotal state, however, was the largest, most populous state: Virginia. Virginia had provided far more than its share of leaders to the Revolution, the Philadelphia Convention had been presided over by George 
Washington, and James Madison had provided the template for much of 
the Convention's discussion. Once the Convention finished its work, Virginians Edmund Randolph and George Mason became the initial leaders 
of the Anti-Federalist campaign.If Virginia (which still included West Virginia and Kentucky) did not 
ratify the Constitution, the new Union would be cut in half. Perhaps more 
important, a Republican victory in Virginia would prevent George Washington from serving as the first president-and the Constitution's executive branch had been drafted with him in mind, as the one chief executive 
the states would trust. Such was Washington's prestige that it was 
assumed that once he had set the standard for proper republican presidential behavior, it would bind all his successors.It all comes down to VirginiaThe stakes in Virginia's summer 1788 Richmond Ratification Convention 
approached the stratosphere. A Republican victory would mean the 
defeat of the Constitution, as North Carolina and Rhode Island already 
had gone on record in opposition and New York stood poised to follow 
the Old Dominion's example.Unlike those of other states, Virginia's political elite split right down 
the middle on ratification. George Mason, former congressional president 
Richard Henry Lee, future U.S. president James Monroe, and the domi nant figure in the General Assembly, Patrick Henry, led the opponents; 
George Washington, James Madison, and veteran lawyer, judge, and 
politician Edmund Pendleton, along with Madison's lieutenant George 
Nicholas, favored ratification.
The Republicans, led by Mason, argued that the Constitution's grants 
of power to the new federal Congress and judiciary were too ill defined 
(and thus that the new institutions were apt to claim more authority than 
the people intended) and that any new constitution required a bill of 
rights. The Federalists argued the reverse.Governor Edmund Randolph-who had supported the Virginia Plan 
and then opposed the Convention draft-announced early in the Richmond debates that while he considered the Constitution imperfect, and 
that it needed to be amended before it was approved, he no longer 
believed that option to be available. Eight of the nine states whose assent 
was needed to put the Constitution into effect had already ratified. The 
issue now, he insisted, was whether Virginia would be part of the Union. 
He, for one, said yes.Patrick Henry mocked Randolph's newfound support of ratification 
and implied at one point that Randolph's motives were impure (and it 
seems that Randolph sent a second to Henry's camp to sound him out 
regarding a duel).What a Patriot Said"We have laid our new Government upon a broad Foundation, and have endeavoured to provide the most effectual Securities for the essential Rights of human 
nature."George Mason on the Virginia Constitution and Declaration of Rights of 1776, in a 
personal letter, October 2, 1778
Surprisingly, Randolph (whom George 
Mason now called "Young Arnold" after 
Revolutionary War traitor Benedict Arnold) 
became the chief spokesman for ratification. 
He was chosen for the same reason he had 
been selected to present the Virginia Plan in 
Philadelphia: he was tall, handsome, and 
articulate, the very picture of a Virginia blue 
blood. The Randolphs were Virginia's leading family, including in their numbers 
Thomas Jefferson and John Marshall, while 
the brains behind the ratification operation, 
James Madison, was short, sickly, and-in 
debate-often inaudible. Randolph's explication of the text carried great weight.The other delegates listened intently, then, when Governor Randolph 
explained that the new federal government need not be feared so much 
as Henry wanted it to be. No powers were being granted to the new Congress by implication, Randolph held. The new government would have 
only the powers it was "expressly delegated."Federalists realized, however, that they had not persuaded a clear 
majority of delegates. Like their fellows in the Massachusetts Convention, 
they sought to persuade the unpersuaded with expedients they would not 
otherwise have adopted. They suggested, for instance, that Virginia could 
expressly state that it was approving the Constitution with the understanding that the rights of conscience and of the press were reserved free 
of federal interference. Moreover, they said, Virginia could reserve a right 
to reclaim its delegated authority if the federal government exceeded that 
which was given it through the Constitution. These positions would be 
included in Virginia's instrument of ratification, which established the 
terms by which the state approved the Constitution.Federalists Who Lived Up 
to Their NameLeading Federalists in several states 
(New York, Pennsylvania, Massachusetts, 
South Carolina, and Virginia) insisted that 
the new government would have only 
the powers "expressly delegated" to iteven though they might have preferred 
otherwise.
As the Federalists explained matters, the Constitution amounted to a 
compact, and Virginia was a party to it. In George Nicholas's words, "If 
thirteen individuals are about to make a contract, and one agrees to it, but 
at the same time declares that he understands its meaning, signification 
and intent to be, what the words of the contract plainly and obviously 
denote; that it is not to be construed so as to impose any supplementary 
condition upon him, and that he is to be exonerated from it, whensoever 
any such imposition shall be attempted-I ask whether in this case, these 
conditions on which he assented to it, would not be binding on the other 
twelve? In like manner these conditions will be binding on Congress. 
They can exercise no power that is not expressly granted them." (Emphasis added)James Madison, too clever by half, wrote to a friend to say that this was 
all verbiage, that it would not really change anything. To Madison's mind, 
it was, in modern language, a lie: "The plan meditated by the friends [of] 
the Constitution," Madison said, "is to preface the ratification with some 
plain & general truths that can not affect the validity of the Act," along 
with proposed subsequent amendments. Were the rubes persuaded? Randolph privately said that five votes had been added to the Federalist column by his and Nicholas's explanation of the Constitution. In the end, 
the Richmond Convention ratified by a ten-vote margin-precisely the 
one Randolph counted. Madison conceded later that the RandolphNicholas explanation had been decisive.Very soon, Virginia's instrument of ratification would be elevated by 
Virginia's moderate Federalists and Republicans into the first article of 
the Jeffersonian faith.But what about The Federalist?So you might well ask, if you learned about the Constitution in college, 
or by reading the opinions of Supreme Court justices (Chief Justice John Marshall and Associate Justice Joseph Story were early proponents), or if 
you read some self-styled conservatives (who should know better) whose 
journalism or books treat The Federalist as political scripture.
The short answer is that The Federalist did not have much to do with 
the ratification of the Constitution in New York or anywhere else. Far 
from shaping the ratification debate throughout the United States, the 
arguments outlined in the Publius essays were unknown to virtually 
everyone outside the range of the New York papers. Virginia was the 
tenth state to ratify the Constitution, and its ratification convention was 
already meeting when the final Federalist essay first appeared in a New 
York newspaper. And the essays were not instantly reprinted in other 
states.Did The Federalist at least provide the necessary boost for New York 
to ratify the Constitution?Actually, no. When New York's convention met in Poughkeepsie in 
late 1788, ten states had already ratified. The question facing the Empire 
State, then, was whether it wanted to join Rhode Island and North Carolina in remaining outside the newly reconstituted Union. Besides that 
grim prospect, Republicans, led by Governor George Clinton, had to consider the possibility-bruited by Alexander Hamilton and others-that 
New York City would secede from New York State and ratify the Constitution on its own. It was on that basis, not out of love for the vision of the 
country presented by Alexander Hamilton, John Jay, and The Federalist, 
that New York held its collective nose and ratified the Constitution by a 
vote of thirty to twenty-seven.The Federalist does merit consideration, however, because the 
monarchist-nationalist authorial coalition that produced it-Hamilton, 
Madison, and Jay-would play a central role in implementing the new 
Constitution once it was ratified. And what one finds in their collaboration is great confusion about the document produced by the Philadelphia 
Convention. At times, the three august revolutionaries describe the con templated new government as federal, but at 
others, they make it "national." In some 
places they concede that the states would 
retain their central role in American politics 
under the new Constitution, but at others 
they read the grants of power to the new 
government very broadly.
As we have already seen, Hamilton 
frankly avowed his monarchism in the Philadelphia Convention, while 
Madison was just as clear in his desire to see the Confederation replaced 
by a national government. John Jay, let us add, found this company perfectly comfortable. Hamilton, in fact, wanted Jay as a New York delegate 
to the Convention, but Governor Clinton and the majority of the New 
York legislature regarded Hamilton, Jay, and the Federalist project with 
suspicion. Clinton and his supporters guessed, rightly, that the Hamiltonian Federalists had more in mind than modestly augmenting the power 
of the Confederation Congress.Reading The Federalist, one can arrive at either of two conclusions 
regarding its authors: either they were very confused, or they were 
attempting to obfuscate. In Madison's case, in particular, there is just cause 
for arriving at either conclusion. For example, his justifications of the 
structure of the Senate in Federalist 62 and 63 directly contradict his more 
candid-and keenly negative-appraisal of that body in private correspondence with Jefferson, while his confusion about federalism in number 39 
is consistent with his repeatedly self-contradictory musings on the same 
subject in "Notes on Nullification" and other anti-nullification writings 
forty years later.Hamilton, on the other hand, did not have a reputation for tergiversation because he did not deserve one. His was the opposite failing: boundless loquacity, which often amounted to imprudent logorrhea. And if he 
was confused in some of his Federalist explications it was because he was honestly confused in his thinking. John Jay was always more diplomatic 
than Hamilton, but he also "never told a lie."
A Book You're Not 
Supposed to ReadThe Authority of Publius by Albert Furtwan- 
gler; Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press, 
1984.
The question of sovereignty: Never really explainedLet us consider some of what The Federalist had to say about the nature 
of the proposed government. In number 9, Hamilton writes, "The proposed constitution, so far from implying an abolition of the state governments, makes them constituent parts of the national sovereignty, by 
allowing them a direct representation in the senate, and leaves in their 
possession certain exclusive and very important portions of sovereign 
power." Here we have a characteristic Hamiltonian muddle. Where had 
a "national sovereignty" come from? The states had been sovereign ever 
since establishing their independence (May 15, 1776, for Virginia; July 4, 
1776, for the rest). Surely, then, their delegation of certain powers to a 
new federal government did not remake the states into components of a nation, any more than the European Union's assumption of some powers 
formerly exercised by its sovereign members made Germany, France, 
Italy, and the rest parts of a sovereign European nation. Creating a federation made a federation, not a nation. The states would remain sovereign 
under the federal Constitution, just as George Nicholas and Edmund Randolph would soon explain to the Virginia Ratification Convention.
Portrait of a PatriotJohn Jay (1745-1829) played a leading role in the Revolution, both within New 
York and as a New York member (and sometime president) of the Confederation 
Congress. He and Alexander Hamilton led the Federalist Party in securing the 
Constitution's ratification in New York's ratification convention, partly through their series of newspaper essays, The Federalist. Jay served as the first chief justice of the United States, and during his 
tenure on the Supreme Court he negotiated Jay's Treaty with Britain. He next served as governor of 
New York under the state constitution of which he had been chief draftsman in 1777. His signal 
achievement as governor was signing into law New York's gradual emancipation act, which eventually brought slavery to an end in the Empire State.
In Federalist 23, Hamilton admits that "the circumstances of our country are such, as to demand a compound instead of a simple; a confederate instead of a sole government." He thus admits the distinction between 
a federal and a national government. He goes on to say, however, "The 
government of the union must be empowered to pass all laws in relation 
to its powers. The local governments must possess all the authorities connected with the administration of justice between citizens of the same 
state." As Virginia philosopher-statesman John Taylor of Caroline noted, 
if sovereignty lies with the states (or with the people of those states), then 
the states (or their citizens) will have authority over the federal government, but if the federal government is sovereign, it will in the end have 
power over all the states (and the people of those states). (Taylor, it bears 
noting, made this point in 1823-long before its truth had been fulsomely 
verified by history.)This point bears reiteration in regard to Federalist 28. There, Hamilton 
says, "In a confederacy the people, without exaggeration, may be said to 
be entirely the masters of their own fate. Power being almost always the 
rival of power; the General Government will at all times stand ready to 
check the usurpations of the state governments; and these will have the 
same disposition toward the General Government. The people, by throwing themselves into either scale, will infallibly make it preponderate. If 
their rights are invaded by either, they can make use of the other, as the 
instrument of redress."In the same essay, Hamilton adds:
The state governments will in all possible contingencies afford 
complete security against invasions of the public liberty by the 
national authority. Projects of usurpation cannot be masked 
under pretences so likely to escape the penetration of select 
bodies of men as of the people at large. The Legislatures will 
have better means of information. They can discover the danger at a distance; and possessing all the organs of civil power 
and the confidence of the people, they can at once adopt a regular plan of opposition, in which they can combine all the 
resources of the community. They can readily communicate 
with each other in the different states; and unite their common 
forces for the protection of their common liberty.Hamilton concludes that essay by saying, "If the federal army should 
be able to quell the resistance in one state, the distant states would have 
it in their power to make head with fresh forces.... The people ... are in 
a situation, through the medium of their state governments, to take measures for their own defence with all the celerity, regularity and system of 
independent nations." Here, Hamilton holds out the prospect of state 
resistance to dangerous federal policy as "the last ditch" of free people's 
resistance to a runaway federal government. He cannot resist, however, 
referring to the federal government as "national," which calls the reader's 
attention back to his earlier statements about sovereignty-and leaves the 
ground muddled. If the federal government possesses national sovereignty, on what basis can the non-sovereign states ever resist it? Clearly, 
Hamilton/Publius's teaching is self-contradictory: insofar as he says that 
the federal government is national and sovereign, it is inconsistent both 
with what he says about the states' role in the new Union and with what 
leading figures in the ratification debate, such as Charles Cotesworth 
Pinckney of South Carolina, Edmund Randolph of Virginia, George Nicholas of Virginia, James Wilson of Pennsylvania, and William Cushing of Massachusetts, taught.
In Federalist 31, Hamilton says, "The State governments, by their original constitutions, are invested with complete sovereignty." In number 
32, he concedes that the states, after the ratification of the Constitution, 
will "retain [the taxing] authority in the most absolute and unqualified 
sense; and that an attempt on the part of the national government to 
abridge them in the exercise of it, would be a violent assumption of 
power unwarranted by any article or clause of its Constitution." Under 
the new constitution, he adds, the state governments would retain "all 
the rights of sovereignty which they before had and which were not by 
that act exclusively delegated to the United States."A Book You're Not 
Supposed to ReadNew Views of the Constitution of the United 
States by John Taylor of Caroline, edited and 
introduced by Kevin R. C. Gutzman; Leesburg, VA: Alethes Press, 2007.In number 33, interestingly, Hamilton wrote that the final paragraph 
of Article I, Section 8 of the Constitutiongiving the government of the United States 
power to "make all Laws which shall be 
necessary and proper for carrying into Execution the ... Powers vested by the constitu- 
tion"-was merely a "tautology or 
redundancy." It did not imply that the federal government had any greater powers 
than those specifically stated.How, then, did Hamilton imagine the 
Congress and the state legislatures cooperating in areas in which their 
jurisdiction overlapped-as it did in regard to taxation? In Federalist 34 
he cites the Roman Republic, in which two separate legislative bodies 
each possessed the power to annul the acts of the other. Just as we have 
become accustomed, in other words, to the necessity of the federal House 
and Senate cooperating before either of them can enact its will, so Hamilton said that in the federal system, the state and federal legislatures would each be able to act in its own sphere irrespective of the acts of the 
other.
Hamilton hits upon this solution again in number 36: "As neither the 
federal nor state governments, in the objects of taxation, can control the 
other, each will have an obvious and sensible interest in reciprocal forbearance." The Congress and the state legislatures will each have a 
sphere, and within that sphere, each will act as it sees fit. John Taylor, on 
this point, agreed with Hamilton, writing that the federal and state legislatures "are co-ordinate, co-equal, and independent, neither being controllable by the other." One could deduce from this, then, that sovereignty 
did not lie in either the state governments or the federal government, but 
in the people of the several states-though Hamilton missed this logical 
implication.The thinking behind Hamilton's statements that the federal government and the state governments were each to have some sovereignty can 
be explained by his preference for the British model of government. In Britain, then as now, Parliament, not the 
people, was sovereign. As Sir William 
Blackstone had explained in 1765, final 
authority in all matters lay in Parliament. 
For Hamilton, final authority lay with the 
federal government in some issues and with 
the state governments in others. He never 
seems to have understood the theoretical 
change worked by the American Revolution, 
which substituted popular sovereignty (authority in the people) for governmental sovereignty (authority in the government). This helps to 
account, also, for the divergence between what he said in The Federalist 
and what other Federalists more influential in the ratification contest 
were saying at the same time.
Portrait of a PatriotEdmund Randolph (1753-1813) played leading roles in both the Philadelphia 
Convention and the Virginia Ratification Convention of 1788. Despite presenting 
the Virginia Plan (which was largely the work of James Madison) at the Philadelphia Convention's outset, Randolph came by the Convention's end to insist that a federal, not a 
national, constitution was what was needed, and he refused to sign the document. In Richmond, 
Randolph laid out a states-rights, federalist (not nationalist) version of the Constitution for his fellow delegates, insisting that Virginia would be as one of thirteen parties to a compact in the newly 
invigorated federal Union. His reassurances explain Virginia's narrow decision to ratify the Constitution. The first U.S. attorney general, Randolph sided with Jefferson in the cabinet's Bank Bill debate 
in 1791.
Who ratified the Constitution: 
"The American people" or the sovereign states?On this issue of nationalism versus federalism, James Madison's contributions to The Federalist are similarly perplexing. In Federalist 39, in 
particular, he decides that the proposed government is to be neither 
national nor federal, but an amalgam. This is, alas, an impossibilityunless, like Hamilton, one assumes that "sovereignty" means "authority 
in a given area."On the issue of most moment-the procedure by which the Constitution 
would be enacted-Madison says, "The constitution is to be founded on 
the assent and ratification of the people of America, given by deputies 
elected for the special purpose, not as individuals composing one entire 
nation; but as composing the distinct and independent States to which they 
respectively belong. It is to be the assent and ratification of the several 
States, derived from the supreme authority in each State, the authority of the people themselves. The act therefore establishing the Constitution, will 
not be a national but a federal act." (Madison's emphasis)
A Book You're Not 
Supposed to ReadThe Anti-Federalists: Selected Writings and 
Speeches, edited by Bruce Frohnen with 
foreword by Joseph Sobran; Washington, DC: 
Regnery, 1999.
What does it mean that ratification was to be a federal, not a national, 
act-the act of "independent states," not of a nation? As Madison goes on 
to explain, "Were the people regarded in the transaction as forming one 
nation, the will of the majority of the whole people of the United States, 
would bind the minority; in the same manner as the majority in each 
State must bind the minority." So, "Each State in ratifying the Constitution, is considered as a sovereign body independent of all others, and 
only to be bound by its own voluntary act. In this relation then the new 
Constitution will, if established, be a federal and not a national Constitution. "Madison would have done well to leave off here. He goes on to state, 
however, that the Congress will have one house apportioned by state and 
another apportioned by population, which makes it, he says, partly 
national and partly federal. He then notes that presidential elections are 
to be through an electoral college whose apportionment is partly national 
and partly federal, and makes several other confused and confusing statements of the same kind.There was nothing in the Declaration of Independence, in the Articles 
of Confederation, or in the ratification process of the federal Constitution 
to enable an American people to create a national government. If the 
states really were states, they would have had to cease to be so at some 
time to have made themselves into a nation. When did they do that? 
When did an "American people" ever assent to or ratify anything?All of this talk about the Constitution making a "nation" must have 
been very distasteful to the population of New York, good Patriots who 
had vindicated their state's sovereignty in the Revolution. No wonder 
they did not flock to support Hamilton's vision. Instead, two-thirds of the 
delegates they elected to the state ratification convention opposed the 
Constitution. It was only New York City's threat of secession, coupled with the real prospect of independence from the other twelve states, that 
pushed an extremely hesitant New York into ratifying the unamended 
Constitution.
 








Chapter Four










JUDGES: POWER-HUNGRY 
FROM THE BEGINNINGhat does the Constitution say about the courts? Not much. 
In describing the federal judiciary, Article III of the Constitution says, "The judicial Power of the United States shall 
be vested in one supreme Court, and in such inferior Courts as the Congress may from time to time ordain and establish." Article III also lists 
several types of jurisdiction that Congress may choose to grant to inferior 
federal courts and describes the Supreme Court's original jurisdiction. In 
addition, it grants federal judges "good behavior" tenure.In the Judiciary Act of 1789, the first federal Congress established the 
three-tiered federal court system-with a supreme court at its apex, intermediate appellate courts, and federal district courts to conduct trialswith which Americans have had to contend ever since. This system 
violated James Madison's pledge during the ratification debates that the 
federal government would first try to get along without any federal trial 
courts (leaving trials of federal issues entirely to the state courts). But it 
proved uncontroversial in the first Congress, which was dominated by 
Federalists of various stripes. (Virginia's two senators were alone in that 
body in having opposed ratification of the unamended Constitution.)Besides giving the federal judiciary a skeleton, the Judiciary Act 
included two other sections ultimately destined for great significance. 
In Section 25, the Act said that questions of federal law (including constitutional law) could be appealed from state supreme courts to the 
federal Supreme Court. The constitutionality of this provision, dubious 
then as now, would be hotly debated within a generation, and it would 
be controversial repeatedly in American history.
Guess what?-.' The concept of 
state sovereigntyso dear to the 
delegates at the 
Philadelphia 
Convention-was 
effectively 
dismissed by 
judges only six 
years later.-sW The omnipotence 
of today's Supreme 
Court would have 
surprised and 
horrified the 
founders-even 
the Federalists.-4W At least two 
states considered 
secession because 
of the Alien and 
Sedition Acts of 
1798.
The Judiciary Act had another important provision. It concerned suits 
where federal courts were involved as neutral arbiters because the plaintiffs hailed from different states. Congress decided that the law of the state 
where the federal court sat would be the governing law. The congressmen 
wanted to prevent federal courts from devising a federal common law; 
the presumption was that state law should be applicable in everyday disputes. The creators of the federal government once again erred on the side 
of federalism, leaving matters to state governments rather than transferring decision-making authority to the federal government.Judging the judgesPresident George Washington considered three criteria in appointing the 
first men to the Supreme Court: prospective appointees must be eminent 
in their states, they must have favored ratification of the Constitution, and 
they must, taken together, be of diverse geographic backgrounds. He had 
a chief justiceship and five associate justiceships to staff, and he made 
good on his intention to fill them with able Federalists.The first chief justice, John Jay of New York, was a surprising choice 
for that post even to Washington himself. According to Jay family lore, 
Washington offered Jay any position he wanted in the new government. 
Washington wanted and expected Jay to take the senior cabinet position, 
secretary of state. Instead, Jay chose the top judicial appointment. As in 
New York during the Revolution, when he had opted for the top judicial 
post rather than the governorship, Jay believed that his judicial experience fitted that job uniquely well. As the chief negotiator of the Treaty of 
Paris, a former president of Congress (where he achieved such influence that a leading historian of the period, John 
Kaminski, recently called him a "prime minister" in that post), the chief author of his 
state's first republican constitution, and a 
coauthor of The Federalist, Jay was a fine 
choice for chief justice.
Jay's associates on the high court also 
brought outstanding qualifications as statesmen of a kind not seen in Supreme Court 
appointees today. Justices John Rutledge, James 
Iredell, William Cushing, and James Wilson had played eminent roles in 
writing the Constitution, ratifying it, or both. They were joined by John 
Blair of Virginia, who had experience in that state's high courts and in the 
Philadelphia Convention, and later replacements included William Paterson and Oliver Ellsworth, who had first been prominent in the Philadelphia Convention and then cooperated in writing the Judiciary Act of 1789.The Court's first stepsThe first significant constitutional case decided by the Supreme Court 
concerned the extent of federal power. In Ware v. Hylton (1796), the Court 
upheld the terms of the Treaty of Paris, which had ended the Revolutionary War. Thanks to John Jay's brilliant diplomacy, the Treaty of Paris had 
brought the Revolution to a spectacularly successful conclusion, with the 
United States gaining a western boundary not at the Appalachians-the 
boundary of American settlement at the time-but at the Mississippi. Borders, however, weren't at issue in the case; the issue was how to handle 
debts owed to the British. Specifically at issue was a Virginia law of 1777 
intended to prevent British creditors from collecting on Virginia debtors.As was his custom, the Virginians' attorney, John Marshall, had no 
compunction in taking a case even though he had a substantial personal interest in the outcome-in this case, an interest adverse to his clients': 
he was an investor in Virginia lands formerly owned by prominent Loyalists. Marshall argued that Virginia had acquired the status of an independent nation during the war, that independent nations had the right to 
confiscate enemies' property, and that Virginia had thus been perfectly 
within its rights to bar recovery of the debts in question. So far as the law 
was concerned, "the defendant owed nothing to the plaintiff" at the time 
of the Treaty of Paris in 1783. The Supreme Court disagreed. Justice 
Samuel Chase held that the Supremacy Clause of Article VI, which says 
that the federal government's treaties are the supreme law of the land, 
resuscitated the debt at issue.
What a 
Patriot Said"A bill of rights is what 
the people are entitled 
to against every government."Thomas Jefferson
Another 1796 case, Hylton v. United States, concerned the constitutionality of a federal carriage tax. The Constitution provided that direct 
taxes (taxes levied directly on the consumer 
or owner, in contrast to indirect taxes, like 
tariffs, which are imposed on the importer) 
must be apportioned equally among the 
states. Carriages were far more common in 
some states (notably Virginia, where many 
Tidewater planters owned carriages) than in 
others (particularly in Connecticut, where 
only two carriages fell under the tax). The 
Supreme Court held that the carriage tax 
was not a direct tax, that it therefore did not 
have to be apportioned equally among the 
states, and that it thus was constitutional.In Ware v. Hylton the Court had nullified a state statute. In Hylton v. 
United States it refrained from nullifying a federal statute, but in the 
process gave Congress greater discretion in levying taxes than the ratifiers 
had intended.Hamilton Splits the 
DifferenceAccording to Alexander Hamilton, there is 
a difference between "necessary" and 
"absolutely necessary." (This is a very 
important point. Really.)
The limits on the Court's power to review statutes for constitutionality were at issue in the 1798 case of Calder v. Bull. The specifics of the 
case are not so important (it involved whether the Connecticut legislature could grant a new hearing in a probate proceeding, enforcing a will). 
But the opinions written by Justices Samuel Chase and James Iredell are 
of great interest. In those early days of the Supreme Court, justices customarily delivered opinions seriatim (that is, each for himself) rather than 
joining in a common decision. Here, Chase's statements about natural 
law, and thus about the limitations on legislative power, drew a stinging 
rebuke from Iredell.Chase began by saying that while the federal government's powers 
were strictly defined, the state governments retained all the power delegated to them by the people and not denied by the federal Constitution. 
A former Republican turned Federalist, he then went further. State legislatures, he wrote, were not (as Parliament was under the British conception of sovereignty) "absolute and without controul," even when the 
constitution of the state did not expressly limit their authority. Rather, he 
said, "There are certain vital principles in our free republican governments which will determine and overrule an apparent and flagrant abuse 
of legislative power; as to authorize manifest injustice by positive law; or 
to take away that security for personal liberty, or private property, for the 
protection whereof government was established. An act of the legislature 
(for I cannot call it a law), contrary to the great first principles of the 
social compact, cannot be considered a rightful exercise of legislative 
authority. "In other words, according to Chase, state statutes that violated the 
"principles" of "free republican government" were not law at all. Such 
statutes, he wrote, were against "the general principles of law and reason." Chase's opinion thus set the stage for federal judges to substitute 
their individual understandings of the "principles" of "free republican government" for the judgments of state legislatures. The legislature might 
legislate, Chase said, but not all its statutes could qualify as "law."
This has become, over time, the majority opinion of the Supreme 
Court. But Justice Iredell leveled a blistering response to Chase's advocacy of judicial imperialism. The guard against untrammeled legislative 
power, Iredell insisted, was not natural law, but the system of written 
state and federal constitutions. "If any act of congress, or of the legislature of a state, violates ... constitutional provisions, it is unquestionably 
void; though, I admit, that as the authority to declare it void is of a delicate and awful nature, the court will never resort to that authority, but in 
a clear and urgent case."If Congress or a state legislature should pass a statute consistent with 
the power it had been granted, Iredell continued, no court may declare it 
void (that is, strike it down as "unconstitutional") "merely because it is, 
in their judgment, contrary to the principles of natural justice."Iredell warned, "The ideas of natural justice are regulated by no fixed 
standard; the ablest and purest men have differed upon the subject." And 
if legislative power can be abused, "such is the tendency of every human 
institution," but the American system offers a constitutional corrective: 
legislative elections.The Eleventh Amendment: 
Protecting the states from the Supreme CourtSurely the most controversial Supreme Court decision of the 1790s was 
in the 1793 case of Chisholm v. Georgia. In this case the Court claimed 
jurisdiction over a sovereign state, in apparent violation of Article III of 
the Constitution.The case involved a claim that Georgia owed money to the estate of a 
dead South Carolinian for supplies provided during the Revolutionary War. Georgia refused to submit to the federal court adjudicating the case, 
insisting through its counsel (who refused to say anything more) that it 
enjoyed sovereign immunity as a state; it could not be sued without consenting to be sued.
The Supreme Court issued a default judgment against Georgia because 
it had failed to appear. In their opinions, Chief Justice John Jay and Justice James Wilson denied that Georgia was sovereign in its relations with 
the Union. The United States Constitution, they held, was the creation of 
one American people. Justice Iredell, however, denied that the federal 
court had jurisdiction over the case at all. Georgia did not allow such 
suits in its own courts, and that meant that federal courts had no authority to hear such a case. Justice John Blair countered that when the states 
ratified the Constitution, they agreed to be amenable to such suits in federal courts. And Justice William Cushing affirmed that in giving the federal courts jurisdiction over suits between states, the Constitution 
assumed that states might be defendants in federal courts.Justice Wilson went further. He mocked "the haughty notions of state 
independence, state sovereignty and state supremacy." The American 
people, he said, could subject the states to federal jurisdiction if they 
chose to do so. The language of the Constitution's preamble referred to 
the desires "to establish justice" and "to ensure domestic tranquility," 
which gave federal courts power to resolve such disputes.Jay's opinion offered what one historian has called "a bit of handtailored history," which made Jay responsible for the "lamentable standards of American judicial historiography."' Jay said that when the 
Crown's authority ceased in America, thirteen sovereignties succeeded, 
but that the Americans thought of themselves "in a national point of view 
as one people." The preamble to the Constitution showed that it represented the sovereignty of a single people. If one citizen might sue all the 
shareholders of a corporation, and if one state might sue another, why would an individual's suit against a state be any different? The grant of 
jurisdiction under consideration, said Jay, should be construed liberally, 
because it was remedial. Such a reading, he concluded, would be both 
wise and useful.
It would not, however, be what the Federalists had argued when the 
Constitution was being debated. They had said then that federal courts 
could hear such suits only when they were initiated by the states. Alexander Hamilton, in fact, had said that suits against states would prove 
impractical because of the difficulty of executing judgments against them. Leading Federalist spokesmen like Edmund Randolph had 
said that the federal courts' jurisdiction would 
be read narrowly.Virginia had refused to submit to a suit 
when summoned to do so in 1792 in the case 
of Grayson, et a]. v. Virginia. Massachusetts 
soon joined Virginia and Georgia on the list of 
affected states. In response, Congress proposed, and the states instantly ratified, the Eleventh Amendment, which 
explicitly denies federal courts jurisdiction over lawsuits initiated 
"against one of the United States by citizens of another state, or by citizens or subjects of any foreign state."Modern judges and legal academics often argue that the Eleventh 
Amendment is a narrow exception to Congress's broad power to create 
federal courts. But we know from the amendment's history that its purpose was exactly the opposite: to limit the federal courts' jurisdiction to 
the strict confines of Article III.These early Supreme Court decisions, and the clamorous response to 
Chisholm, must be read in the context of the political disputes of the 
1790s. At issue was just how much authority had been granted to the federal government through the Constitution.A Book You're Not 
Supposed to ReadReclaiming the American Revolution: The 
Kentucky and Virginia Resolutions and Their 
Legacy by William J. Watkins, Jr.; New York: 
Palgrave Macmillan, 2004.
Finally, a Bill of Rights!Republican opponents of ratification had not been persuaded by the Federalists' promises that the powers of federal congresses and courts would 
extend only to areas expressly mentioned by the Constitution. In the end, 
following the lead of Massachusetts Federalists, those in several other 
states (notably New York and Virginia) vowed to seek amendments to the 
Constitution in the first federal Congress.When Congress met, James Madison overcame his colleagues' hesitance to spend time on so "insignificant" a task, and Congress referred 
twelve proposed amendments (which ultimately became Amendments 
I-X and XXVII) to the states for ratification. The first ten of them, known 
as the Bill of Rights, were all about limiting the authority of the federal 
government.Madison, still a nationalist, had described the proposed amendments 
as "safe, if not necessary, and politic, if not obligatory."' He had an 
amendment of his own-which would have given federal courts power 
to supervise state governments when it came to speech, the press, and 
religion-but it was so unpopular that it wasn't even sent to the states. 
Americans were looking to limit federal power, not expand it.Of the first ten amendments actually adopted, by far the most important was the tenth. It made explicit what Edmund Randolph, James Wilson, Charles Cotesworth Pinckney, and other Federalists had promised 
was already implicit: "The powers not delegated to the United States by 
the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the states, are reserved to the 
states respectively, or to the people." This could be understood only as a 
limitation on federal authority.The same goes for what became the First Amendment, which says that 
"Congress shall make no law" impairing the freedom of speech, the press, 
or assembly; guarantees the right to petition; and establishes the right to 
the free exercise of one's religion. The entire thrust of Republican argument was about restricting the power of the federal government. And 
the Bill of Rights is framed, in the First and Tenth Amendments, with 
both specific and sweeping restrictions on the power of Congress.
The Washington factorDuring the long, hot summer of 1787, as the Constitution was being written in Philadelphia, George Washington loomed large over the debates. 
He was the presiding officer at the Convention, but he did not often 
speak. Nevertheless, the understanding that he would serve as the first 
president of the United States guided the constitutional design of the 
executive branch. The delegates trusted him to behave-as he had during the Revolution and since-as a dedicated republican.Partly at James Madison's recommendation, Washington made his former Continental Army aide-de-camp Alexander Hamilton the first secretary of the treasury. This brilliant admirer of the British constitution also 
admired the British financial system established earlier in the century by 
eminent Whig politician Robert Walpole. Hamilton proposed to replicate 
it, so far as was possible, in America.Others, wary of Walpole's example and suspicious of Hamilton's 
republican bona fides, sniffed out monarchist plotting and determined to 
stop it. Some of these people, influenced by anti-Walpole British writers, 
resolved to oppose the new government in its early days, whatever it did. 
John Taylor of Caroline, for example, said that the course of a government 
is established at its beginnings, so the federal government's every move 
had to be eyed suspiciously. If it were allowed to set out on a career of 
exercising powers not expressly granted by the Constitution, it would 
eventually careen further and further from the pure republicanism of the 
Revolution.Secretary Hamilton, like Washington, had suffered hardship, cold, and 
hunger at Valley Forge. Like his chief, he had seen the Continental Army constantly short of men and money. There must be a stronger federal government, he believed, so that in the event of future wars-and there 
would be future wars-government credit would be good. Then men and 
supplies would be plentiful. No American soldier would ever freeze to 
death in his winter quarters again. The United States would be able to 
defend themselves even in the absence of a French king willing to go 
bankrupt on their behalf.
As treasury secretary, then, Hamilton proposed a number of measures 
to solidify the financial structure. He had the first Congress assume 
responsibility for the debts incurred by the states in fighting the Revolution and persuaded Congress to fund a portion of the debt. The Virginia 
House of Delegates, under the leadership of Patrick Henry-the Old 
Dominion's foremost revolutionary figure and undisputed master of the 
all-powerful General Assembly-adopted a formal resolution decrying 
this assumption and funding of the states' debts as unconstitutional. Joining Henry was Henry Lee, who had helped lead the Federalists against 
him in the Richmond Ratification Convention. The federal government, 
they said, had not been expressly granted power to undertake any such 
measures, and so they were unconstitutional. Not only was the General 
Assembly suspicious of the federal government, but it was also prepared 
to resist it. (These were the same men, after all, who had made war on 
England less than a decade earlier on very similar grounds.) Hamilton, 
however, cut a deal with the Virginians, placing the federal capital 
between their state and Maryland in exchange for Virginia's accepting his 
debt assumption program.Thomas Jefferson, as America's diplomat to France, had been absent 
during the writing and ratification of the Constitution, but he was a leading Republican voice on his return. In 1791, he joined James Madison 
(Virginia's leading Federalist, after Washington) in opposing another of 
Hamilton's financial measures. This one was intended to create an American version of the Bank of England to manage the government's debt.
But in the U.S. House of Representatives, to Hamilton's surprise, Madison classified the bill as unconstitutional. He noted that nothing in Article I, Section 8-where Congress's powers are enumerated-gave 
Congress power to create any kind of corporation, including a bank.Congress nevertheless passed the bill incorporating a bank. President 
Washington then asked his cabinet-which included Edmund Randolph, 
Hamilton, and Jefferson-whether they thought Madison was right about 
the bill being unconstitutional. Jefferson responded with a classic affirmation of what the Constitution actually says and means.The underlying principle of the Constitution, Jefferson wrote, is that 
"the powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor 
prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States respectively, or to 
the people." This is the language of the Tenth Amendment, whichalthough not yet ratified-had already been passed out of Congress.How did one know if a power had been delegated to Congress by the 
Constitution? Jefferson looked at the list of Congress's powers in Article 
I, Section 8. There was nothing there about chartering corporations, let 
alone banks, so Congress had no such power. This meant, Jefferson said, 
that the power to charter banks remained in the state legislatures, where 
it had been before the Constitution was adopted.Jefferson then turned to the so-called elastic clause, the Necessary and 
Proper Clause at the end of Article I, Section 8. It says that Congress has 
the power "to make all Laws which shall be necessary and proper for carrying into Execution the foregoing Powers [the previously enumerated 
powers of Congress], and all other Powers vested by this Constitution in 
the Government of the United States, or in any Department or Officer 
thereof." Supporters of the bank argued that under this clause Congress 
could charter a national bank. Jefferson countered that chartering a bank 
was not "necessary" to carry out any of Congress's enumerated powers, 
and thus was not permitted by the Necessary and Proper Clause. Attorney General Edmund Randolph concurred with Jefferson.
What a Patriot 
Said"I wish it were possible to 
obtain a single amendment 
to our constitution. I would be willing to 
depend on that alone for the reduction of the 
administration of our government to the genuine principles of its constitution; I mean an 
additional article, taking from the federal government the power of borrowing."Thomas Jefferson, in a letter to 
John Taylor, November 26,1798Hamilton, in rebuttal to Jefferson, made the classic argument for conceding to Congress nearly untrammeled discretion under the Constitution. 
Hamilton argued that clauses within Article I, Section 8 granted Congress 
powers related to the economy (such as the power to regulate trade with 
foreign countries, the power to regulate trade among the states, the power 
to regulate trade with the Indian tribes, the power to coin money, and so 
on). These clauses, taken together, reflected a mandate to Congress to 
supervise the national economy. Only it could decide how to do so. The 
Necessary and Proper Clause, according to Hamilton, granted Congress 
discretion in this regard. Contrary to Jefferson's argument, Hamilton stated 
that "necessary" did not really mean necessary, but that it might mean "helpful," 
"useful," or "convenient"-or, one supposes, "desired." There was nothing in the 
Constitution prohibiting Congress from 
chartering a corporation, Hamilton noted. 
Where the ends were constitutional and 
the means not prohibited, the means were 
constitutional.Note the distinction between Jefferson's 
approach and Hamilton's. Jefferson started 
with the assumption that Congress has 
only those powers that are expressly delegated to it. (This was also what such leading Federalists as James Wilson, Edmund 
Randolph, and Charles Cotesworth Pinckney argued in 1787-1788.) Hamilton, on 
the other hand, started with the assumption that Congress was analogous 
to the British Parliament in having all powers the Constitution did not 
expressly deny it. This suited Hamilton's desire that the United States 
copy the British system (which he regarded as the most successful in the world), but it was a model of congressional authority that the Philadelphia 
Convention had rejected when it rejected the nationalist Virginia Plan. 
Moreover, it was directly at odds not only with the Tenth Amendment 
(and later, the Eleventh Amendment), but with much of what Hamilton 
had written in his confused contributions to The Federalist. Washington, 
a nationalist, eventually followed Hamilton's advice by signing the bank 
bill.
The trouble with FranceWhen the French Revolution began in 1789, Washington and many (but 
not all) Americans responded with cautious optimism. When Washington's friend the Marquis de La Fayette sent him the key to the Bastille, he 
put it on his mantle at Mt. Vernon-where it remains today.In time, however, the Revolution took a most unsavory turn (as Gouverneur Morris, on site in Paris as American minister to the French court, 
had predicted from the start). The king was deposed, then killed, as was 
his queen. France eventually became involved in a series of first defensive, then aggressive wars, and the kingdom's traditional Catholicism was 
replaced by a new pagan religion of "Reason."As France became embroiled in a world war against Britain (and other 
leading European powers), Hamilton, as treasury secretary, wanted to stay 
out of the mess entirely. America was far too weak to determine the outcome and could only hurt itself by becoming involved. Besides that, taking France's side would mean an interruption of trade with England-still 
America's chief trading partner. As federal tax revenue came mainly from 
tariffs (taxes on imports), interruption of foreign trade threatened the new 
government's financial future-and thus all Hamilton's plans for American credit.Secretary of State Thomas Jefferson made two main points regarding 
America's stance: first, America had since 1778 been under treaty obliga tion to come to France's assistance if it were attacked. France had lived 
up to its side of the mutual defense treaty during the American Revolution, and if the United States did not reciprocate, France would have 
every moral and-under the law of nations-legal right to exact retribution militarily.
Hamilton said that the treaty in question had been between the United 
States and Louis XVI, who had been deposed in 1792. Thus, America was 
under no moral or legal obligation to assist France; in his view, the treaty 
had lapsed. Jefferson responded that it was for France to choose its form 
of government. True, we had entered into the treaty with the French 
monarch, but he had been the country's chief executive; if the French had 
chosen to replace their monarchy with a republic, how could the Americans criticize them for that?Washington finally, in effect, opted for Hamilton's position. He issued 
a public proclamation that any American citizen who aided either side 
in the war would be prosecuted. For Jefferson, Madison, John Taylor of 
Caroline, and their Republican followers, the president's proclamation 
was an executive branch usurpation: the president was to execute policy, 
not make it. Madison wrote that this was only the latest attempt of the 
Federalists to assimilate the American constitution to the British one. In 
Britain, unlike in America, it was up to the king to declare war, to conclude treaties, and otherwise to make foreign policy. Madison went further and accused Hamilton (and pro-British Federalists) of being 
monarchist.Republican clubs existed across the United States. Republicans celebrated partisan holidays-the Fourth of July was associated with Republican leader Jefferson-and they held dinners and parades in support of 
their party and of republican France. Partisan tension marked life within 
all the states and also among them.With that in mind, in 1794 two northern U.S. senators, New York's 
Rufus King (later a Federalist presidential nominee) and Connecticut's Oliver Ellsworth (later chief justice of the United States), buttonholed Virginia's John Taylor of Caroline and tried to convince him that the political divide between North and South was irreparable, and that they 
should broker a permanent scission of the Union. Taylor rejected the idea, 
saying that if Hamilton's financial program were repealed, inter-sectional 
grievances would end. But the idea of dividing the Union stayed in Taylor's mind, as we'll see.
Washington crusades for a whiskey taxThe year 1794 also witnessed the Whiskey Rebellion. In adopting Secretary Hamilton's financial proposals, the first Congress had imposed excise 
taxes on carriages and whiskey. It seems that the latter was a kind of "sin 
tax," but many Americans did not consider whiskey an optional component of their lives. Farmers in western districts who grew wheat could eat 
only so much of it, and transporting wheat to market on crude western 
roads was often impracticable. So they converted it to whiskey.The excise, then, fell hardest on those least able to afford it: farmers in 
remote districts. Hamilton, however, saw the rebellion as a wonderful 
opportunity. By assuming the states' debts and paying the federal government's debt obligations on time, he hoped to convince foreigners that the 
United States government was a good credit risk. Using armed force to 
collect the whiskey excise could only improve America's credit rating.Washington followed Hamilton's advice, called out the militia of four 
states, got on his horse, and became the only sitting president ever to lead 
an army in person when he rode out toward the rebels. The rebellion dissolved as the army approached, but the point had been made. Republicans now believed the Federalists would stop at nothing to impose their 
views. Hamilton had avowed his monarchist sympathies in Philadelphia 
in 1787. Republicans looked at the Federalist record-a "monarchist" financial system, sympathy for European monarchies against republican 
France, a monarchist reading of the federal Constitution, using the army 
to enforce federal law-and decided it all fit neatly together as a monarchist plot. (And as far as Hamilton goes they were right; in private conversation with Vice President John Adams and Secretary of State Thomas 
Jefferson, Hamilton had affirmed his belief in monarchy. And John 
Adams, for his part, had told Virginia's senators that the government must 
soon be replaced with a monarchy.)
As the political divisions deepened, Republicans saw themselves as 
defenders of the Constitution against Federalist usurpers.Jay's Treaty sparks controversyRepublicans had another source of contention when, in 1795, Chief Justice John Jay brought home from England a treaty subsequently known 
by his name. Jay's Treaty purported to resolve some of America's outstanding issues with Great Britain-including the resolution of debt owed 
to Britain and settlement of the Canadian border-while increasing trade 
with the British Empire, even if at the price of restricting American cotton exports. The opposition took the treaty as a sell-out of American 
interests. The chief justice was a known Anglophile, a Federalist from 
New York, and a personal and political friend of Hamilton's. Jay, on the 
other hand, knew the treaty would be unpopular-it may have cost him 
the presidency-but believed it to be in America's interests, most especially because it voided the danger of war with Britain.Opposition to the treaty centered in the House, where Madison had by 
this point come to the head of a unified Republican opposition. Although 
the Senate, at Washington's request, ultimately ratified the treaty, Madison held that the treaty could be effectively negated if the House refused 
to appropriate money to implement it.
Today, it's no surprise that many liberal professors take the Republicans' opposition to funding Jay's Treaty as proof that the Republicans 
weren't concerned with the "original understanding" of the Constitution. 
Why? Because the Constitution, they say, vests the Senate with the exclusive role in adopting treaties.No Aliens AllowedThe Alien Enemies Act authorized the 
president to apprehend and deport resident aliens if their home countries were 
at war with the United States. Enacted 
July 6,1798, with no expiration date, it 
remains in effect today.But, in fact, Madison's argument that the Jay Treaty could be defeated 
by the House's refusal to fund it was perfectly consistent with what Madison, the architect of the Constitution, had said during the ratification 
process. "It is true that this branch [of the Congress, referring to the 
House]," he said, "is not of necessity to be consulted in the forming of 
Treaties. But as its approbation and cooperation often may be necessary 
in carrying treaties into full effect; and as the 
support of the Government and of the plans 
of the President & Senate in general must be 
drawn from the purse which they hold, the 
sentiments of this body cannot fail to have 
very great weight, even when the body itself 
may have no constitutional authority."' 
Madison's Republicans suffered a narrow 
defeat, anyway, when the House voted to 
fund implementation of the treaty.This ratcheted up the political fervor in 
the country. The treaty meant that the 
United States would have a closer trade relationship with Britain than it had since the Revolution. The Republicans 
were furious. What, they asked, about our mutual defense treaty with 
France? What about the fact that Britain impressed American sailors 
(albeit who might have been British-born) into the Royal Navy? From the 
Republicans' perspective, not to mention France's, the Federalists were ignoring America's moral and legal obligation to its fellow republic in 
favor of monarchical Britain.
Breaking the law is ... against the lawWashington's retirement in 1796 and John Adams's election as the next 
president exacerbated the political rift in the country. Party divisions 
among Americans were fierce. Republican mobs threatened Federalists 
and even, according to Abigail Adams, the president himself.Federalists (who fancied themselves "loyal Americans") worried about 
the large number of immigrants joining the Republicans. So they 
reformed the nation's immigration laws. Under the Naturalization Act, it 
would now take fourteen years of residency before an immigrant could 
become a citizen.In 1798, an undeclared naval war with France began to protect American shipping from the French navy (which was trying to disrupt trade 
with Britain). Federalists in Congress levied new taxes to fund expansion 
of the army and navy. The Federalists also enacted the Alien Enemies 
Act, which authorized the president to apprehend and deport resident 
aliens if their home countries were at war with the United States. The 
Alien Friends Act authorized him to deport any resident alien considered 
"dangerous to the peace and safety of the United States." The Federalists 
also implemented the Sedition Act, signed into law by President Adams 
on July 14, 1798 (surely not by coincidence), which stifled dissent among 
Americans.By this time James Madison had retired from Congress, and Jefferson 
remained in the government essentially as a figurehead. Jefferson and 
other leading Virginia Republicans, including John Taylor of Caroline, 
insisted that these Federalist laws were unconstitutional.
The Republicans had three objections to the Alien Friends Act: as "dangerous" aliens could be identified only through their associations, utterances, or publications, the act violated the First Amendment. Even aliens, 
they said, could claim the rights of free speech, freedom of the press, and 
free assembly-rights that Congress was prohibited from infringing.Not so, said the Federalists. Foreigners had no claim to constitutional 
rights, and Congress was perfectly entitled to ask them to leave at any 
time. Republicans answered that the Constitution explicitly left it to the 
states to regulate immigration until 1808, so the statute was unconstitutional. They also insisted that the act violated the principle of the separation of powers by giving the president responsibilities properly 
confided to the judicial branch.Of more concern to Republicans, however, was the Sedition Act. 
While the Alien Enemies Act applied to foreigners from hostile countries and the Alien Friends Act applied to foreigners from non-hostile 
countries, the Sedition Act was aimed at American citizens. Republicans 
said that the Sedition Act violated the Tenth Amendment, because no 
power to enact such a law was mentioned in the Constitution. Some portions of the Sedition Act were statements of 
the obvious: one section made it a crime to 
thwart federal law.What was controversial, however, was the 
Sedition Act's ban on saying or publishing 
anything that portrayed the governmentincluding all its agents except, in a hilarious 
exception, the vice president (Thomas 
Jefferson)-in a bad light. Among those punished by fine, imprisonment, or both for violating the Sedition Act were editors of major 
Republican newspapers and a Republican 
congressman.Don't Trust JudgesFederal judges very happily sought out 
people to prosecute for their political 
opinions under the Sedition Act of 1798 
(signed into law by monarchist-bet you 
didn't know that either-President John 
Adams).
Republicans insisted that these four acts were unconstitutional, but 
Federalists disagreed. The First Amendment, Federalists noted, did not 
say that Congress must allow people to say or print whatever they wanted 
to, but that their freedoms of speech and press could not be "abridged" 
by Congress. That meant that the preexisting limits on the freedom of 
speech-such as that one could not defraud a purchaser or commit perjury in court-continued to be in effect. In 
English common law, they said, sedition was 
illegal, so a federal statute banning sedition 
did not "abridge" freedom of speech. And 
because the Sedition Act made truth a 
defense, as common-law sedition prohibitions 
had not done, far from abridging freedom of 
speech, Federalists argued, the Sedition Act 
broadened it.The Federalists' secret weapon: 
JudgesWhat a 
Patriot Said"On every question of 
construction let us 
carry ourselves back to the time when the 
Constitution was adopted, recollect the 
spirit manifested in the debates, and 
instead of trying what meaning can be 
squeezed out of the text, or invented 
against it, conform to the probable one 
which was passed."Thomas JeffersonFederal judges in the period 1798-1801 were 
all Federalists. From the beginning, they had 
been chosen for their eminence-and because 
they were Federalists. Washington had enunciated those tests at the beginning of his administration, and while he 
later appointed former Republican opponents of ratification (and would 
have appointed more, had they accepted the jobs), he left office having 
filled the federal courts entirely with members of his party. All fell somewhere along the monarchist-nationalist continuum, which, ironically, 
had been repudiated at the Constitutional Convention in favor of a republican, state-centered model. So the Constitution was, arguably, in the 
hands of its enemies.
These men, then, enthusiastically supported the Sedition Act. And far 
from worrying about "checks and balances," federal judges believed-as 
John Jay once told Washington-that their chief obligation was to secure 
the success of Washington's and then Adams's administration.Given that Congress had passed the Sedition Act, the president had 
signed it, and federal judges had enforced it, where could Republicans 
look for succor? From Monticello, Thomas Jefferson answered, "To the 
states." (He had been persuaded of this by John Taylor of Caroline.) In 
Jefferson's words, the states represented "the last ditch" of Republican 
resistance to the "reign of witches."In early June 1798, Jefferson wrote Taylor a letter. Taylor, apparently, 
was now flirting with secession. Jefferson told him that the political problems of the 1790s would not be solved by Virginia and North Carolina 
leaving the United States to form a separate confederation. It was part of 
man's nature, Jefferson said, to be fractious, and so a union of Carolinians and Virginians must soon be divided between a Carolina party and a 
Virginia party; in the end, he said, each state would be left to itself.Besides, Jefferson argued, the American people had been deluded into 
supporting the Federalists. Once the tax bills for the recent military 
buildup arrived, they would see the error of their ways and cast the Federalists out for good. Taylor was unpersuaded. He told Jefferson that a 
mere change of parties would not solve the problem, because the problem was human nature: men always wanted more power. A southern aristocracy ruling the country would be as bad as a northern one. Instead, 
Taylor's answer was to amend the Constitution extensively to prohibit 
federal overreaching.Jefferson and Madison argue for states' rightsVirginia Republican leaders, meanwhile, met at Monticello and decided 
that Virginia and Kentucky, two Republican-controlled states, would adopt resolutions in their state legislatures spelling out their objections 
to the Alien and Sedition Acts.
Kentucky's Resolutions of 1798, drafted secretly by Jefferson to avoid 
prosecution under the Sedition Act, argued for state-centered constitutionalism. The Constitution had been ratified-and thus the federal government had been created-by the states for their own purposes. They 
had retained all powers not delegated by them to the federal government 
through the Constitution. When the federal government undertook to 
exceed the bounds of its authority, its acts were "unauthoritative, void, 
and of no force."The states were sovereign and "to this 
compact [of the Constitution] each state 
acceded as a state, and is an integral party." 
Who, then, was to decide when the federal 
government adopted unconstitutional policies? Surely not the federal government, 
"since that would have made its discretion, 
and not the Constitution, the measure of its 
powers; but ... as in all other cases of compact among parties having no common judge, 
each party has an equal right to judge for itself, as well of infractions as of 
the mode and measure of redress." When it came right down to it, the 
states, which had created the federal government, still bore ultimate 
responsibility for ensuring that their monster did not oppress their people.The Sedition Act, Jefferson said, was objectionable on two constitutional grounds. First, and most important, it violated the Tenth Amendment principle: that powers not expressly delegated to the federal 
government through the Constitution were reserved to the states or to the 
people. Second, it violated the First Amendment's prohibition on congressional infringement of the rights of free speech and press. It was, 
therefore, null and void.Time to Rebel?Thomas Jefferson and James Madison said 
in 1798 that a state must resist federal 
enforcement of an unconstitutional and 
dangerous policy.
In Virginia, James Madison drafted the resolutions adopted by the 
House of Delegates. He argued that when the federal government persisted in an unconstitutional and dangerous policy, as with the Alien and 
Sedition Acts, the states "have the right, and are in duty bound, to interpose" to prevent their enforcement within their "respective" territories.The two Republican legislatures asked other states to join them in propounding the principles laid out in the Virginia and Kentucky Resolutions. 
No other southern state did so (though North Carolina considered it). But 
ten states north of Virginia issued their own refutations of the Resolutions.On what grounds? In general, they argued that the Sedition Act was a 
good law that should have been adopted sooner, and that interpreting the 
federal Constitution was a task for the federal courts, not for the states.Kentucky responded in 1799 with a second set of resolutions, these 
two conceived by Jefferson. Kentucky's legislature said that Kentucky 
loved the Union "for the purposes for which it was created," and insisted 
that it would be among the last states to secede. (This was an implied 
threat, because while Republican leaders had privately discussed the possibility of secession, only one, Virginia congressman William Branch 
Giles, had advocated it in public. So this was the first official mention of 
secession in the context of the Alien and Sedition Acts.) But when the 
federal government propounded unconstitutional and dangerous laws, it 
was the duty of the states to nullify those laws.James Madison, too, wrote a sequel to his Resolutions. His Report of 
1800 did far more than simply defend the Virginia Resolutions of 1798. 
It objected to the entire direction of Federalist policy in the 1790s. Madison's most significant argument concerned the use of the word state. Federalists had objected to the idea that the states had created the federal 
government. The Philadelphia Convention, Federalist legislatures rightly 
noted, was not a state organ, nor were the ratification conventions parts 
of the state governments. Clearly, then, the states had not created the federal government.
Madison noted that the word state had three common significations: 
it could be used to refer to the territory of a state (as in "I'd like to go to 
the state of North Carolina"); it could be used to refer to a state government (as in "The state of Georgia was a party to Chisholm v. Georgia"); or 
it could refer to the sovereign people of a state (as in "The state of Virginia ratified the Constitution"). Federalists were reading the word state 
purely as referring to state government. The Virginia Resolutions used the 
word state to refer to the sovereign people of Virginia. In saying that the 
Union was a union of states, Republicans understood that the Union was 
a union of sovereign peoples: the people of Delaware, the people of North 
Carolina, the people of Maryland, the people of Rhode Island, and so on.Most history and legal textbooks say that Jefferson and Madison 
invented the idea of state sovereignty. But as we've seen, they only argued 
for what the founders had already understood to be true about the sovereign states from the beginning, even if some of the founders (the nationalist and monarchist wings) wanted to change that understanding.In the end, what Thomas Jefferson had predicted to John Taylor of Caroline proved to be true, or at least partly true. The Republicans won the 
election of 1800, and the Federalists lost control of Congress and the 
executive branch forever. The Sedition Act expired at the end of John 
Adams's term. Jefferson hoped that this sweeping victory-Republican 
vindication-meant that constitutional squabbles would now come to an 
end.
 








Chapter Five










THE IMPERIAL JUDICIARY: 
IT STARTED WITH MARSHALLefferson's victory was supposed to inaugurate a new era of strict 
constitutional interpretation, putting an end to presidential, congressional, and judicial usurpations of power. It certainly wrought 
a radical change in the programs and policies of the federal government. Shortly after his inauguration, Congress repealed all internal taxes, 
so that the only sources of federal revenue would be tariffs and sales of 
federally owned land. It also slashed the military budget dramatically. 
Unlike modern "budget-cutting" politicians who claim to "slash" government spending while merely reducing its rate of growth by a point or two, 
Jefferson's Republicans ultimately eliminated all seagoing vessels from 
the navy and cut the army's manpower by nearly 95 percent.The loathed Sedition Act expired on the last day of John Adams's 
administration, and Jefferson not only pardoned everyone convicted 
under it, but also returned the fines they had paid. (No historian has ever 
thought to question whether Jefferson had constitutional authority to 
refund fines paid by felons.)Republicans also acted to rein in the federal judiciary. The last Federalist Congress had passed the Judiciary Act of 1801, expanding and reorganizing the judicial branch. Republicans hooted that the act was a 
nakedly partisan attempt to pack the courts with Federalists just as the 
people were throwing them from elected office.Guess what?-.' Supreme Court chief 
justice John 
Marshall had the 
nerve to tell one of 
the framers of the 
Constitution that he 
had been flat-out 
wrong!-40 Based on Marshall's 
flawed reasoning in 
McCulloch v 
Maryland, President 
Andrew Jackson 
almost invaded 
South Carolina.-.' The phrase "high 
crimes and 
misdemeanors" 
refers to the holders 
of high offices-a 
fact that Marshall's 
Federalist cronies 
conveniently 
ignored.
One myth about this act, popularized by Republican propagandists at 
the time and echoed by professional historians even now, is that John 
Adams filled all the new posts established by the Judiciary Act with dedicated Federalists. In fact, Adams did not; some were not Federalists at 
all. But the run of professional historians and legal scholars, as this book 
should make apparent, rarely do their 
homework.In any event, the Jeffersonian Republican Congress not only repealed the Judiciary Act of 1801, but, on April 23, 1802, 
it also passed a law proroguing the 
Supreme Court for fourteen months to 
ensure that before it returned to session, 
the Judiciary Act would be fully repealed. 
Federalists responded by talking among themselves about New England 
secession. But they were let down by the Supreme Court, which, when it 
returned, accepted the repeal's constitutionality.Still, the reckoning between the Republican Congress and the Federalist judiciary had only just begun. The main battle centered on Congress's attempt to impeach and remove two federal judges.High crimes and misdemeanors aboundUnited States district court judge John Pickering of New Hampshire 
appeared to be conducting his duties while severely intoxicated. Under 
the Judiciary Act of 1801, circuit judges could step in when a district 
judge was incapacitated (or, in this case, inebriated). As it had been 
repealed, however, Pickering had to do his duty himself.Some of Pickering's friends tried to defend him by saying he was 
insane-not drunk. Other Federalists counseled him not to resign his office, and so he didn't. Jefferson referred the matter to the House in early 
1803, but the Senate trial did not begin until March 1804.
A Book You're Not 
Supposed to ReadImpeachment: The Constitutional Problems 
by Raoul Berger; Cambridge, MA: Harvard 
University Press, 1973.
The Constitution provides in Article II, Section 4 that "the President, 
Vice President and all civil Officers of the United States, shall be removed 
from Office on Impeachment for, and Conviction of, Treason, Bribery, or 
other high Crimes and Misdemeanors."The phrase "high crimes and misdemeanors" was borrowed, like much 
else in the Constitution, from English precedents. It had a precise legal 
meaning when the Constitution was ratified: it covered not only "high 
crimes" and petty corruption, but also disability, including physical, 
mental, or psychological impairment. No one has ever claimed, however, 
that politicians were legal scholars, and most of the senators accepted 
Pickering's lawyer's argument that insanity was neither a high crime nor 
a high misdemeanor. Still, they removed Pickering from office anyway.While the Pickering matter was pending before Congress, the Federalist Supreme Court under Chief Justice John Marshall rebuked the Jefferson administration in the landmark decision of Marbury v. Madison. This 
case affirmed that federal courts could review congressional legislation 
(and gratuitously lecture elected officials).William Marbury had been nominated by John Adams for a very minor 
judicial post in the District of Columbia. The Senate had confirmed his 
appointment. President Adams had signed his commission. Then secretary of state and soon to be chief justice John Marshall had failed to 
deliver it to him. Thus, Marbury could not enter into his office.Because the case focused on Marshall's own incompetence as secretary of state, presumably he should have recused himself, but he did not.Marshall's Republican successor as secretary of state was none other 
than James Madison, and he had no intention of delivering Marbury's 
commission. Marbury responded by suing Madison in the Supreme 
Court.
Despite what most legal scholars will tell you, "judicial review" was 
uncontroversial before Marbury v. Madison. During the ratification of the 
Constitution, Federalists had said federal courts would have the power 
of judicial review, and Republicans (specifically Patrick Henry) said they 
hoped they would use it. Besides, both lower-level federal courts and the 
Supreme Court had at least implicitly exercised this power before. The 
repute granted Marbury rests more on Marshall's ringing claim on behalf 
of the powers of the Supreme Court-which he took directly from 
Alexander Hamilton's Federalist 78-than on judicial review's novelty.Of more importance was the political element of Marshall's decision. 
In the federal system, we have two kinds of courts: courts of general jurisdiction (state courts) and courts of limited jurisdiction (federal courts). 
Before a federal court involves itself in a case, it must decide whether that 
case falls under its constitutional jurisdiction.Marshall, however, did not begin with this question (or with the question of whether there was a federal law requiring Madison to give Marbury 
his commission). Instead, he asked, "Does Mr. Marbury have a right to his 
commission?" To ask the question, Marshall knew, was to affirm it. And 
Marshall duly argued that to deny Marbury his commission was to wrong 
him gravely. Nevertheless, the Court's authority to issue a writ of mandamus (forcing Madison to deliver the commission) rested in the judiciary 
Act of 1789, which, Marshall said, was itself unconstitutional because it 
granted the Court jurisdiction beyond what the Constitution permitted. 
Therefore, the relevant portion of the Judiciary Act was null and void.This was the first time the Court had declared a congressional act 
unconstitutional, and some have argued that Marshall's motivation was 
more political than anything else: he wanted to say that Marbury was 
right, but was fearful of a direct confrontation with Jefferson and Madison (because how, if it came down to it, could he force them to give the 
commission to Marbury?).
Chief Justice Marshall Touts The FederalistMarshall never referred directly to the ratification debates in his opinions. He preferred to rely on 
The Federalist. But The Federalist's nationalist explanations of the Constitution were rejected at 
the Philadelphia Convention and during the ratification debates.The real precedent established by Marbury v. Madison was not for judicial review, but for the presumed right of the Court to lecture elected officials even when the Court had no jurisdiction over the question at hand.Impeaching Justice ChaseNext on the congressional docket was justice Samuel Chase. Republicans 
accused Chase, an ardent Federalist, of abusing his office in the interest 
of partisan politics. One notorious and illustrative case was the Sedition 
Act prosecution of James Callender, a journalist who had written scurrilous attacks on President John Adams. As one of the articles of impeachment against him put it, Chase, the presiding judge, showed "an indecent 
solicitude ... for the conviction of the accused ... highly disgraceful to the 
character of a judge, as it was subversive." (Emphasis added) As Raoul 
Berger, the greatest of American legal historians, put it, Chase's behavior 
in the Callender trial went against his judicial oath-which said, in part, 
"I will faithfully and impartially discharge and perform all the duties 
incumbent on me."Chase was far from impartial. He had "selected the victim, announced 
his intention to punish him for his `atrocious and profligate' libel, procured his presentment by the grand jury, refused to excuse jurors who confessed their bias against the accused, at every step identified himself 
with the prosecution, and [taken] every means to disconcert, discredit, 
and disable counsel for the defense."
Chase's behavior in this and other cases had made him notorious in 
Republican circles. The House of Representatives believed that Chase's 
behavior warranted his removal from office and impeached him (making 
Chase the only Supreme Court justice ever impeached). It was proven 
beyond any doubt that Chase had conducted himself in a prejudiced, partisan way that made him unfit to serve as a judge, trial or appellate. But, 
in one of the great, reverberating mistakes in the history of American law, 
the Senate acquitted him.Why?His counsel argued that Chase had never committed "treason, bribery, 
or other high crimes and misdemeanors." Without an indictable criminal 
offense by Chase, his counsel argued, the Senate could not remove him 
from office. The Senate accepted this argument. But the argument is 
wrong.Legal LatinismsMandamus: Latin for "we command." A 
type of writ that a court can issue to 
compel performance of a mandatory duty 
when the right, the duty, and the absence 
of an alternative remedy are all clear.In the English law tradition that shaped the Constitution, a "high 
crime" or "high misdemeanor" was different from an indictable "crime" 
or "misdemeanor." "High" was a category of misbehavior associated with 
high office and with political misbehavior.Thus, in 1757, Sir William Blackstonewhose Commentaries on the Laws of England formed the bedrock of American legal 
education in the late eighteenth centurywrote that "the first and principal [high misdemeanor] is the mal-administration of such 
high officers, as are in the public trust and 
employment. This is usually punished by 
the method of parliamentary impeachment." 
As Berger notes, maladministration did not imply an indictable offense. In fact, among "high crimes and misdemeanors," as a historian of English law has pointed out, were cases in 
which "judges mislead their sovereign by unconstitutional opinions" as 
well as "attempts to subvert the fundamental laws, and introduce arbitrary power"-purely political offenses that would not be tried before an 
ordinary court.
Chase had certainly committed high crimes and misdemeanors, if not 
indictable offenses, by these standards. The Chase verdict forced Jefferson to conclude that impeachment was a farce and was no check at all on 
judicial misbehavior. At the end of his life, Jefferson wrote that "they [federal judges] consider themselves secure for life; they sculk from responsibility to public opinion, the only remaining hold on them .... A 
judiciary independent of a king or executive alone, is a good thing; but 
independence of the will of the nation is a solecism, at least in a republican government."The Chase acquittal set the precedent that a federal judge may disobey 
his oath (because it is not an indictable criminal offense) by ignoring or 
effectively rewriting a statute or the Constitution, and nothing will come 
of it.The Marshall Court soon took advantage of the Chase verdict.The Supreme Court's march through Georgia 
(and Virginia)In Article I, Section 10 the Constitution protects contracts from any state 
tampering: "No State shall pass any... Law impairing the Obligation of 
Contracts." This is the so-called Contracts Clause. The original motivation behind the clause was to prevent states from adopting "stay laws" 
(as they sometimes had during the Revolutionary period) that prohibited 
lenders from collecting debts for stated periods of time. A provision similar to the Contracts Clause was included in the Northwest Ordinance of 1787, stating that "in the just preservation of rights and property, it is 
understood and declared, that no law ought ever to be made or have force 
in the said territory, that shall, in any manner whatever, interfere with or 
affect private contracts, or engagements, bona fide, and without fraud previously formed."
The first time the Supreme Court considered a case under the Contracts Clause was in Fletcher v. Peck (1810). This case arose out of the 
notorious Yazoo Scandal, one of the great public swindles in the history 
of the world. In that case, a group of land investors had bribed all but one 
member of the Georgia legislature to sell them an enormous area of public land-most of what is now the states of Alabama and Mississippivirtually for nothing. The sale was completed in 1795 as a grant of land 
to a private company, but then repealed-and the bribed legislators cast 
out-in 1796. John Peck bought his title to some of that land in 1800, then 
sold it in 1803 to Robert Fletcher. Fletcher next sued Peck for the purchase price, saying that his supposed title had been negated by the legislative repeal of the original sale, and thus was worthless.Chief Justice Marshall, for the Court, decided that the nub of the issue 
was whether a legislature's grant of public land qualified as a contract 
under the Contracts Clause. He and his fellow justices decided that it did. 
So the Supreme Court ruled the state law-Georgia's repeal of the 1795 
land grant-unconstitutional and void, which in practical terms meant 
that, according to the Supreme Court, the people had no democratic remedy to correct the bribed action of a corrupt legislature!Not only was Marshall's equivalence of grants and contracts dubious, 
but he also skipped over a crucial point, which was whether Georgia ever 
had a contractual "obligation," given that the land grant was the result of 
bribery, in the first place. As the Northwest Ordinance's contracts clause 
illustrates, the obligation of contracts was understood to be dependent on 
the absence of fraud (as well as coercion). This legal understanding was 
universal. But Marshall ignored it, with dire results.
The revolutionary-one might say anti-constitutional-nature of the 
Fletcher decision should not be overlooked. The Constitutional Convention had denied Congress the power to veto the acts of state legislatures. 
The Convention certainly did not mean such power to be assumed by the 
Court instead. During the entire debate on ratification in Virginia, where 
extremely able men teased out the meanings-and potential dangerslurking unsuspected in each clause of the proposed Constitution, no one 
ever said, "And the least responsible institution of the federal government 
is to have a veto power over the everyday enactments of each of the state 
legislatures." Had anyone suspected that it did, he certainly would have 
pointed it out. No one intended to grant federal courts such authority.Marshall had two incentives to rule as he did in the Fletcher case, one 
personal and one institutional. From a personal point of view, he was 
himself a substantial investor in unsettled lands, and so he might be 
expected to favor people who claimed to have received state grants. Institutionally, Marshall saw in the Georgia lands case an opportunity to buttress the position of the judicial branch in the federal system-and to 
help make national what had been intended as a federal constitution.In Marbury v. Madison, Marshall had staked out the Supreme Court's 
authoritative claim to the power to review congressional enactments for 
constitutionality. In Fletcher v. Peck, he grabbed at the chance to claim what ultimately would prove to be a far more significant right: that of federal courts to supervise enactments of state legislatures. If in Marbury he 
had exceeded the limits of his authority by lecturing the president on the 
merits of a case that he admitted the Supreme Court had no constitutional 
power to decide, in Fletcher he and his colleagues, in deciding the case 
incorrectly, forced Georgians to accept the validity of an enormous fraud.
The Supreme Court vs. the ConstitutionJames Madison protested that if Marshall's nationalist decision in McCulloch v. Maryland (1819) 
(which said that Congress's powers were not limited to those "expressly delegated") had been 
foreseen, the Constitution would never have been ratified.
There remained one more element of the triad of federal judicial power 
yet to be established: the federal courts' power to supervise the performance of state judiciaries. An opportunity presented itself in the 1816 case 
of Martin v. Hunter's Lessee. The case centered on whether Virginia laws 
that had allowed for the confiscation of Loyalist property during the Revolutionary War were rendered obsolete by treaties negotiated between the 
United States and Britain that protected Loyalist property. The Virginia 
Court of Appeals, Virginia's highest court, had ruled that these treaties 
did not conflict with or overrule the Virginia laws.In Fletcher v. Peck, Marshall had written an outlandish opinion in 
order to protect the interests of land speculators generally. In Martin, 
most of the land titles at issue belonged to a company whose major shareholders included Marshall himself and his brother. (Marshall had a history of looking out for his brother's interests. After the Republican 
Congress's 1801 Judiciary Act, Marshall had tried and failed to get his fellow justices to join him in saving his brother's federal judicial post.)The Supreme Court took the case from the Virginia Court of Appeals 
under Section 25 of the Judiciary Act of 1789, which said that the federal 
Supreme Court could hear appeals of federal questions from the states' 
top courts. The Supreme Court, in asking the Virginia court to send the 
record of the case for review, used peremptory language of a type a superior uses with an inferior, and Virginia's high court responded by saying, 
"The court is unanimously of opinion that the appellate power of the 
Supreme Court of the United States does not extend to this court, under 
a sound construction of the Constitution of the United States." In short, it would not forward the record of the case, so the Supreme Court would 
have nothing to review.
Marshall recused himself, so the Supreme Court's opinion came from 
Justice Joseph Story, a Marshall ally. Justice Story wrote that there must 
be one superintending authority to ensure that the law was applied in the 
same way throughout the Union. He reasoned that Article III of the Constitution established that states could be brought before federal courts in 
some cases, so there could be no valid objection to Section 25 of the Judiciary Act on that ground.This argument had been made by the justices in Chisholm v. Georgia, 
and the people had instantly corrected it by adopting the Eleventh 
Amendment. The federal courts were thus limited to the types of jurisdiction listed in Article III, which did not include appeals from state supreme 
courts. The Virginians argued that while the Constitution provided that it 
was "the supreme law of the land," it also required that state judges take 
an oath to uphold it. In other words, state judges were to enforce the Constitution themselves without the supervision of a federal court.It would have been odd, indeed, to come to any other conclusion. At 
the Philadelphia Convention, remember, the Virginia delegation first proposed, in its nationalist Virginia Plan, that Congress have a power to veto 
state laws it judged unconstitutional. This was one of the numerous 
nationalist features of the Virginia Plan that the Convention ultimately 
omitted from the finished Constitution. The Convention opted for a federal government with limited powers instead of a national government 
with unlimited powers. It rejected Hamilton's idea that the president 
should appoint state governors and U.S. senators. It rejected Madison's 
idea that the Congress should have a general legislative power. It rejected 
the idea that the federal courts should have a general jurisdiction. And it 
rejected the congressional veto.How strange, then, that anyone should read the federal Constitution, 
with its list of powers of Congress and list of types of jurisdiction federal courts could be given, as giving federal courts a veto over state judiciaries. The same logic applies to this case as applied to Fletcher v. Peck's 
claim that federal courts were supposed to superintend the behavior of 
state legislatures. In short, the Marshall Court, not the Virginia judiciary, 
was violating the Constitution. The result was not only that the Virginia 
courts were overruled, and the relevant Virginia laws were voided, but 
that the Supreme Court seized the power to supervise state courts, an 
entirely unconstitutional usurpation of power.
The Constitution created a federal system in which state governments, 
through elections, were held responsible by 
the people of the states. The constitutional 
model is a decentralized one of the type 
envisioned by Thomas Jefferson when he 
wrote A Summary View of the Rights of 
British America.What judicial usurpation did to this 
model was to replace the authority of 
elected state governments with the authority 
of a few lawyers, appointed by a president to 
positions of lifetime tenure without any 
check on their power. Does that sound like 
the model of government approved by the 
ratifiers of the Constitution?But if you studied constitutional law in 
school, you'll know that the Marshall Court is treated with veneration, 
based on the idea that the "law" is the body of Supreme Court decisions, 
rather than the Constitution itself (as understood by the ratification conventions). Fletcher and Martin-and our acceptance of those decisionshave given federal judges ultimate authority over wide swaths of our political life that the men who adopted the Constitution on our behalf 
never intended them to have.
Supreme Logic: 
Fraud Is a ContractAccording to John Marshall in Fletcher v. 
Peck (1810), a fraudulent land purchase 
was a "contract"-and was thus subject to 
the protection of the Contracts Clause. 
"Coincidentally," Marshall was a substantial land investor.
Madison's banking flip-flopsBy the end of the War of 1812, the United States government had run up 
a substantial amount of debt. To help manage it, President James Madison asked Congress in 1816 to charter the second Bank of the United 
States-which was ironic, as he had been the leading opponent of the 
constitutionality of the first Bank of the United States in 1791. He had 
then regarded congressional legislation to charter a bank as an unconstitutional threat to American liberties and a telltale sign that Hamilton and 
Washington wanted to overthrow the federal government. Only a politician could perform so breathtaking an about-face without feeling even 
slightly inconsistent, and Madison was up to the task.The second bank charter echoed the first in giving the federal government a 20 percent share in the bank. With that in mind, House Republicans, led by Kentucky's Henry Clay and South Carolina's John C. 
Calhoun, sponsored the Bonus Bill. They would take the "bonus"-their 
name for the federal government's profit as a bank shareholder-and 
spend it on "internal improvements." These were what we now call 
"infrastructure": a network of roads, bridges, and fortifications, as well 
as the clearing of some major harbors and rivers. Madison and Jefferson 
had each asked Congress in their State of the Union messages to appropriate money for these purposes. When the Bonus Bill reached his desk, 
however, Madison-in his last major act as president-vetoed it.In his Bonus Bill Veto Message in 1817, Madison explained his veto in 
terms virtually identical to those he had used in opposing Hamilton's 
bank charter bill in 1791: the Constitution's list of powers of Congress was exhaustive, the Bonus Bill's appropriations were for purposes not 
enumerated in the Constitution, and therefore the Bonus Bill was unconstitutional. He had to veto it.
It was true that he had called on Congress to adopt measures like this, 
but he had been careful, Madison pointed out, to note that Congress could 
make up for any deficiency in its authority by initiating the process of 
amending the Constitution. If it wanted to adopt measures such as the 
Bonus Bill, that avenue still lay open. Madison said that, as written, the 
Bonus Bill violated the basic tenets of Republican constitutionalism, as 
had Hamilton's bank bill. The second bank bill, though nearly identical 
in content to the first, did not raise similar constitutional concerns, he 
said, because of the precedent established by Hamilton's bank.Madison said that he had made a good-faith argument against the first 
bank bill's constitutionality in 1791, but he had lost. Not only had Congress and President Washington considered the bill constitutional, but so 
had a succession of other Congresses and presidents-else they would 
have acted to repeal it. In Madison's estimation, the constitutionality of 
congressional legislation chartering banks had become a dead issue.Madison's argument boiled down to this: If Congress undertook to 
exercise authority reserved to the states (the Bonus Bill), that was unconstitutional. If, however, the president signed Congress's bill exercising 
state powers (Hamilton's bank bill) and a string of Congresses and presidents joined in the exercise of those powers, what had been powers 
reserved to the states became powers delegated to the federal government. 
What Jefferson had called, in the context of King George III and the Declaration of Independence, "a long train of abuses and usurpations, pursuing invariably the same Object" now operated to transfer power from 
the states, where the people had intended to leave the power, to the federal government, to which they had meant to deny it! Small wonder, 
then, that John C. Calhoun and Henry Clay did not understand the constitutionalism of James Madison.
To some Virginia Republicans, Madison's odd constitutional course as 
president came as no surprise. In 1808, John Taylor of Caroline, John Randolph of Roanoke, and other disaffected Republicans who thought Jefferson had strayed from Republican principles-and that Madison was 
worse-lit upon James Monroe as their standard-bearer. We need a man 
of principle to oppose the Machiavellians in power, they said. To contrast 
themselves to the seemingly nationalist Madison and his supporters, 
these men called themselves "Old Republicans." It was a group that former president Thomas Jefferson himself sometimes supported. For example, as historians rarely note, Jefferson opposed Madison's bank bill.Most Old Republicans were in the South. But Republicans in other 
parts of the country sometimes joined forces with the Old Republicans to 
oppose Madison. Many of them, in fact, opposed Madison's bank, and as 
soon as it was adopted, some states passed measures intended to exclude 
it from their territory. Ohio was a notorious example. A more prominent 
one, by the vagaries of fate, was Maryland.Maryland decided that it would keep the Bank of the United States 
from opening a branch in its territory by imposing a stiff fee on it. The 1818 Maryland banking law said that any bank established "without 
authority from the state" must issue only notes of certain denominations, 
and then only printed on stamped paper, unless the bank chose to pay an 
annual fee of $15,000. The Baltimore branch of the Bank of the United 
States failed to comply with these requirements, and so Maryland sued 
its cashier (branch manager), James William McCulloch.
Portrait of a JusticeJohn Marshall (1755-1835), the Great Chief Justice, was the fourth chief justice 
of the United States. Before accepting that post, he had been a Federalist delegate to the Richmond Ratification Convention, a congressman, a diplomat, and 
secretary of state. His handiwork as chief justice included writing the defeated (and, by the end of 
his tenure, defunct) Federalist Party's constitutional views into American constitutional law in cases 
such as Fletcher v. Peck, McCulloch v. Maryland, and Gibbons v. Ogden. More than any other man, 
Marshall was responsible for converting the nationalists' defeat in the Philadelphia Convention into 
a long-run total victory.
The main issue presented to the Supreme Court in the case of McCulloch v. Maryland was the constitutionality of the Maryland law. Lurking 
behind that was the question of whether the Bank of the United States 
had been constitutionally chartered by Congress.Everyone recognized the import of the case: according to Justice Joseph 
Story, when oral arguments were held, "the hall was full almost to suffocation, and many went away for want of room." Spectators got their money's 
worth, as the issues were debated with great skill by Daniel Webster-the 
nineteenth century's leading Supreme Court advocate-and William 
Pinkney on behalf of the Bank of the United States and by Maryland attorney general Luther Martin, who had been a prominent Philadelphia Convention delegate thirty-two years earlier, for his state.Webster reiterated Alexander Hamilton's 1791 constitutional justification of the first bank bill: Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution does not 
provide an exhaustive list of congressional powers, but only a suggestive 
one. As several of the powers listed in Section 8 relate to the economy, 
Congress can be understood to have a general supervisory power over the 
economy. Congress might well decide that chartering a bank was useful 
in superintending the economy. Because the Constitution does not 
expressly prohibit Congress from chartering a bank, Congress is free to do 
so. Webster reasoned that nearly thirty years' unbroken acceptance of the 
constitutionality of such legislation had settled the question.Marshall, in his opinion for a unanimous Supreme Court, wrote that 
Maryland had argued that the Constitution had been ratified by the states 
for express, limited purposes, and not only had Congress's chartering a bank not been among those purposes, but the Tenth Amendment had 
been added to the Constitution to underscore that the "powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the 
states, are reserved to the states respectively, or to the people."
However, Marshall rejected this notion. He wrote that while the Articles of Confederation had specified that Congress had only the powers it 
was "expressly delegated," the Constitution included no such language, 
so no such principle applied to it. This was an extraordinary argument, 
given that Marshall himself and other Federalists like Charles Pinckney, 
James Wilson, William Cushing, Edmund Randolph, and George Nicholas 
had assured their ratification convention colleagues that this very principle of limited federal power-in Randolph's words, that the federal government would have only the powers it was "expressly delegated"-was 
implicit in the unamended Constitution even before the Tenth Amendment was adopted.Being right, however, does not guarantee a victory in court, as anyone 
who has been so unfortunate as to find himself before a judge can attest. 
In his opinion for the Court, Marshall "corrected" Martin's interpretation 
of the Constitution. It had not been created by the states, he insisted, but 
by one American people. Martin, said Marshall, simply did not understand the framers' intent!The American people who created the Constitution, Marshall went on, 
had given the federal government certain powers, and the federal government must be supreme within its sphere-both as a logical matter and as the 
Supremacy Clause of Article VI expressly states. Thus, when Congress exercised one of its constitutional powers, a state could not interfere with it.Was chartering a bank among Congress's constitutional powers? At this 
point, Marshall, like Webster, borrowed from Hamilton: the proper ends 
of congressional legislation are hinted at by the enumerated powers in 
Article I, Section 8; the means Congress adopts to achieve those ends 
(including management of the "national" economy) must be those that are "necessary" in the Webster/Hamilton sense of being "useful"; and the 
limitations on congressional discretion listed in the Constitution (for 
example, that Congress may not adopt an ex post facto law) are the only 
binding ones there are.
From the grave, the practically defunct Federalist Party and its late 
chieftain, Alexander Hamilton, had had their way. Despite its defeat in 
1787, the Philadelphia Convention's monarchist-nationalist coalition had 
been handed an epochal victory in 1819.Little did it matter that Marshall's "interpretation," if it may be called 
that, set the Tenth Amendment at naught, still less that it contradicted 
what the Federalists of 1787-1791, including (at least by implication) 
young John Marshall, had promised. As the Supreme Court had the final 
word in the matter, the clear contradiction between the process used to 
ratify the Constitution-its consideration by each of the sovereign states 
and ratification by each of them separately, on behalf of itself and only 
itself-and Marshall's assertion that "one American people" had adopted 
the Constitution also was not susceptible to correction. The Constitution 
was going to be read by the Supreme Court as the product of one American people, and the powers it gave the Congress were going to be the discretionary powers of a national legislature, 
not the enumerated powers of a federal legislature. In short, the Philadelphia Convention, the ratification process, the Tenth 
Amendment, and the political defeat of the 
Federalist Party (so thorough that the party 
ceased to exist) were all undone by the Marshall Court.Almost as an afterthought, Marshall wrote 
in McCulloch that Maryland could not tax 
the Bank of the United States. In creating a federal government, surely the American people had not intended that 
its powers could be overridden by an individual state government. "The 
power to tax is the power to destroy," and so the state of Marylandwhich could not thwart federal measures-had no power to tax the bank.
Legal LatinismsEx post facto law: A law passed after the 
commission of an act to change the act's 
legal consequences. Generally, the term 
refers to retroactive criminalization or 
heightening of a criminal penalty.
Critics soon pointed out that Marshall's 
argument proved too much. If the people 
had created the federal government, whose 
instrumentalities a state therefore could not 
destroy, they had also created the state governments, so could the federal government 
interfere with them? The argument applied 
either way, logically-but not in the mind of 
John Marshall. Like Thomas Hutchinson, 
the last royal governor of Massachusetts, 
Marshall insisted that there must be an indivisible sovereign in every community, and that meant that all conflicts 
between states and the federal government must be decided in favor of 
the federal government. The Revolution had substituted the federal government for the Crown, as Marshall read things, and the states were still 
subordinate.Marshall lamented in his correspondence that the bank decision drew 
down a powerful storm of criticism. When the Richmond Enquirer ran 
series of anti-McCulloch editorials, first by a Virginia appellate court 
judge, then by the Court of Appeals' chief judge himself, Marshall-like 
historians since him-accused his critics of preferring the Articles of Confederation to the Constitution, the same (disingenuous) argument he had 
used against Luther Martin.Seemingly everyone had something to say about the decision. James 
Madison, for one, who had justified the second Bank of the United States 
on far different-though equally pernicious-constitutional grounds, wrote of McCulloch that if people had known in 1788 that the Constitution would 
be read as giving Congress such extensive discretionary powers, Virginia 
would never have ratified it. He was, as we have seen, absolutely right 
about that: George Nicholas and Edmund Randolph had assured the Richmond Convention that Virginia was to be one of thirteen parties to the Constitution, not somehow an organic part of "one American people."
Madison's Flip-FlopsIn 1791, James Madison said Alexander 
Hamilton's proposed national bank was 
unconstitutional. But in 1816 Madison 
asked Congress to charter one!
Thomas Jefferson, for his part, found Marshall's decision highly vexing. Jefferson had long regarded Marshall as the greatest threat to federal republicanism, and he said that despite Federalism's decisive 
defeats at the polls, "we find the judiciary on every occasion, still driving us into consolidation." To Jefferson's mind, the branches of the federal government were coordinate and independent; the judiciary was 
not the final arbiter. That status belonged to the sovereign people of 
each state.The year after McCulloch was decided, Jefferson wrote, "The judiciary 
of the United States is the subtle corps of sappers and miners constantly 
working under ground to undermine the foundations of our confederated 
republic. They are construing our constitution from a co-ordination of a 
general and special government to a general and supreme one alone." Jefferson's guiding principle was to favor local government. But it was an 
argument he was losing: the failure of the Chase impeachment had demonstrated to the judges that they could do as they liked, and they were."The wolf by the ear"Marshall's opinion in McCulloch v. Maryland granting Congress powers 
limited only by its own will provoked a fiery response in part because it 
came as Congress was wracked by a dispute over slavery in the territory 
of Missouri. Missouri, a section of the Louisiana Purchase, applied for 
admission to the Union in 1819. The application included a draft state 
constitution, which provided that slavery should continue in the territory.
To the surprise of the political class generally, a New York Republican 
congressman named James Tallmadge, Jr. proposed that Congress amend 
the Missouri bill to phase slavery out of existence in the new state. His 
proposal would have stopped importation of slaves into Missouri, and it 
would have freed all slaves born after Missouri's admission to the Union 
as soon as they reached age twenty-five. The Missouri Crisis, which 
would divide Congress for two years, had begun.To a Republican congressman of his acquaintance, former president 
Jefferson wrote that the Missouri dispute had struck him "like a firebell 
in the night," filling him with terror. "I considered it at once as the knell 
of the Union." He lamented that a geographical line had been established, 
with proponents of one principle on one side and advocates of a contrary 
one on the other. Could anything be done to end this division? Taking a 
metaphor from an ancient Greek proverb, he said, "We have the wolf by 
the ear, and we can neither hold him, nor safely let him go. Justice is in 
one scale, and self-preservation in the other."To understand Jefferson's metaphor, we need to know two things: first, 
that so far as late eighteenth-century philosophers of whom Jefferson was 
enamored were concerned, self-preservation was the highest goal of society. Only it could outweigh justice. Second, Jefferson's notion that ending slavery would mean loosing a ravenous wolf reflected his fear that 
emancipation would lead to race war. He had expressed this fear as early 
as the 1780s. It gained added strength from the memory of the Haitian 
Revolution of 1791-1804, which had resulted in the death or exile of 
every white person from Haiti. Jefferson expected American emancipation to have similar results in the South.Jefferson opposed Tallmadge's Missouri proposals on several grounds. 
First, he, like James Madison and others, believed that the slaves-and 
certainly the slaveholders in his own state of Virginia-would be better 
off if slavery were diffused across the whole continent instead of confined 
to the Southeast.
Second, he disliked Tallmadge's plan because it contradicted his conception of the Union. Perhaps Congress could exclude slavery from the 
territory of Missouri, but it could not impose conditions on the territory 
that would remain binding once it became a state. At that point, Missouri 
would have attained equal footing with the other states-just as the 
Northwest Ordinance had provided regarding the former trans-Ohio Virginia territory we now call the Midwest-and would be free, as other 
states were free, to make its own policy regarding slavery. If a northern 
majority in Congress could impose its will on a state despite that state's 
clear rights, what was to prevent the Yankees in Congress from doing the 
same to the older southern states?The Dartmouth reviewThe year 1819 also saw Marshall's Supreme Court issue another momentous decision. This one, in the case of Dartmouth College v. Woodward, 
calls to mind his legerdemain in Fletcher v. Peck nearly a decade before. 
Dartmouth College, like Harvard, Princeton, Columbia, and other colonial colleges, operated under a royal charter as a charitable institution. It 
had been given its charter in order to perform the public service of educating New Hampshire youth, mainly-like Yale, William and Mary, and 
other colleges-for the ministry, and to educate Indians.With the Revolution of 1776, Dartmouth found itself insulated from 
virtually any outside influence. When the Jeffersonian Revolution of 1800 
finally worked itself out in the state politics of New Hampshire, Republicans saw Dartmouth College as ripe for reorganization. No longer, said 
the Jeffersonian Republicans ascendant in that state, should their state 
college be a bastion of privilege-a Federalist Party enclave untouchable 
by the new legislative majority. Therefore, the state legislature adopted 
legislation reorganizing Dartmouth.
Dartmouth College, in response, claimed the protection of the Contracts Clause of Article I, Section 10 of the Constitution for the terms of 
its original charter. The case went to the Supreme Court, and Chief Justice Marshall blithely accepted the college's argument that its charter 
amounted to a contract, the "obligation" of which could not be 
"impaired" by state legislation.The Contacts Clause, however, had never been meant to cover college 
charters, and presumably a college chartered for the public's purposes 
could have its charter amended by the public. As so often before, Marshall 
might have been wrong, but his decision had lasting significance. It 
explains why Harvard, Yale, Penn, Dartmouth, Columbia, and Princetoncolleges established during colonial times and supported during that era 
with public money-came to be "private" in the early nineteenth century. 
Just as Fletcher was calculated to protect the interests of land speculators 
(such as Chief Justice Marshall), so Dartmouth College benefited the old 
Federalist elites who wanted to shield their colleges from Republican legislatures. Jefferson and the Republicans were, naturally, outraged, and the 
decision was unpopular, but there was no appeal from the Supreme 
Court.The "great Lama of the mountains" vs. MarshallIn 1821, the Supreme Court decided the case of Cohens v. Virginia. The issue 
at hand was the effect of the Eleventh Amendment. The Supreme Court, predictably, ruled that the Eleventh Amendment banned only the initiation of 
suits against states in federal court, and as this suit was only being appealed 
to federal court against a state, the Eleventh Amendment did not apply.Here, once again, we see that Marshall consistently read limitations on 
federal power as narrowly as possible. The Eleventh Amendment plainly 
does not have the limitations Marshall put upon it; it was meant to limit the federal courts to the role specified for them in Article III. If Marshall 
had read the amendment that way, he would have found Section 25 of 
the Judiciary Act of 1789-which gave the Supreme Court jurisdiction 
over certain appeals from state supreme courts-unconstitutional.
Interestingly, in an 1824 case, Osborn v. Bank of the United States, 
Marshall held that while the Eleventh Amendment banned the initiation 
of suits against states in federal courts, it did not protect employees of 
states from being sued in federal court for implementing state policies! 
With Cohens and Osborn, he had given the Eleventh Amendment as narrow a reading as possible; this was consistent with his general pattern of 
hostility toward limitations on federal power.Marshall derisively called Jefferson "the great Lama of the mountains," 
but Jefferson recognized that the Supreme Court had become a threat to 
America's constitutional government. He worried that the Court had eliminated all checks on its power by misreading the clear meanings of Article III and the Eleventh Amendment. Even an unbroken string of 
Republican electoral victories had not changed the direction of the Court; 
in fact, these victories seemed to make Marshall more determined to 
write Hamiltonian principles into legal precedent.Jefferson and Marshall were separated by differences over the very 
nature of law. For Jefferson, law was the framework of rules by which the 
people agreed to be governed; a judge's role was simply to apply the clear 
meaning and original understanding of the Constitution (or other legal 
document). But Marshall and his allies, like justice Joseph Story, believed 
that law required judges who could see beyond the written law to the 
"natural law" that was superior to it. Jefferson's vision was republican; 
Marshall's was aristocratic or clerical. As Justice Iredell pointed out in 
Calder v. Bull, no two men agreed about the particulars of the "natural 
law"; instead, they tended to use "natural law" as a justification for leg islating their own policy preferences. It is unsurprising, then, that Marshall and Story's "natural law" always led to a pro-Federalist outcome. 
Perhaps surprisingly, Marshall's vision of judging-the Federalist 
vision-continues to dominate lawyers' and judges' thinking about the 
judicial role even today.
Marshall finds the elastic in the Commerce ClauseOne of the next great cases to come before the Court was Gibbons v. 
Ogden (1824). Gibbons concerned the most famous inventor of the age, 
Robert Fulton, who was widely credited with inventing the steamship. It 
would be hard to exaggerate the significance of his invention, which revolutionized trade within the United States. The question was: what 
reward should the inventor receive?The New York legislature had granted Fulton and his business partner, 
prominent Republican politician and diplomat Robert Livingston, a 
thirty-year monopoly of "navigation of all the waters within the jurisdiction of that State, with boats moved by fire and steam." The issue, Marshall decided, was whether Congress's Commerce Clause power-"The 
Congress shall have power... to regulate Commerce with foreign Nations, 
and among the several States, and with the Indian Tribes"-belonged 
only to it, or whether states could also regulate "commerce," as in excluding certain ships from state waters.Before he turned to that, however, Marshall had to define "commerce." 
Neutral readers of his opinion would have found much in his Gibbons definition of "commerce" to remind them of his Dartmouth College definition of "contract" and his McCulloch definition of "necessary." It turned 
out that the interstate "commerce" that Congress was empowered by the 
Commerce Clause to regulate included not only what my dictionary defines as commercial (that is, large-scale exchange or buying and selling 
involving transportation), but also transportation undertaken for transportation's sake. In support of his definition, Marshall pointed to the longstanding habit of Congress to adopt laws affecting interstate navigation; 
the fact that Congress had done so over a long period of time proved that 
it had a constitutional power to do so, he said. (Recall that he had made a 
similar argument about the constitutionality of the second Bank of the 
United States in McCulloch v. Maryland-and contrast Thomas Jefferson's 
statement at the outset of the Revolution that no matter how long the 
British oppressed the colonists, they would never acquire a right to 
oppress them by having done it repeatedly.) Thus, the transportation 
monopoly at issue in Gibbons was "commerce," said the Court, and therefore Congress could regulate it.
This odd definition, like those in McCulloch and Dartmouth College, 
would have enormous ramifications down the road. In time, Congress 
would claim, and the Supreme Court would agree, that it could regulate 
virtually anything on the ground that it even remotely affected interstate 
commerce. Marshall almost certainly would have welcomed that development.But back to the steamboat monopoly. Having defined "commerce" in 
such a way as to include mere interstate transportation, Marshall had to 
decide whether Congress's power to regulate it was infringed by a New 
York statute affecting it. He decided that it was-that is, that New York's 
grant of a monopoly of steamboat transportation to Livingston and Fulton ran afoul of the Commerce Clause.How could that be? Surely New York's legislation did not annul the 
congressional power to regulate interstate commerce, or even limit it. 
Marshall avoided saying that Congress's power to regulate interstate commerce was exclusive-that the Article I, Section 8 grant negated state 
power to act in that area. But Marshall did assert that Thomas Gibbons operating a competing ferry service licensed by Congress in 1793-could 
not be barred from New York waters under the terms of the Commerce 
Clause.
Marshall nullifies the Declaration of IndependenceIn 1831 and 1832, Marshall issued a pair of opinions-in the cases of 
Cherokee Nation v. Georgia and Worcester v. Georgia-that had even 
deeper ramifications. Marshall famously sided with the Cherokee against 
the state of Georgia by saying that the Indians' treaty rights must be 
respected by the state. (In response, President Andrew Jackson is supposed to have said, "John Marshall has made his decision, now let him 
enforce it.") Marshall's decisions in these cases are famous, but what is 
never noted is the significance of his reasoning.Marshall went on at great length about the Indians' society in North 
America before the white man's arrival. The colonists had conquered 
them and taken their land, he said; their moral right had given way before 
the colonists' martial might. Sadly, they possessed only a slight remnant 
of their original empire.Marshall, in this analysis, denied the entire Jeffersonian theory of 
American colonial history that underlay A Summary View of the Rights of 
British America and, through it, the Declaration of Independence. If the 
Indians in North America were not isolated bands of migratory Stone Age 
people, but settled civilizations, then-as Sir William Blackstone wrote in 
his Commentaries on the Laws of England-their law remained in effect 
until the king replaced it, and so the colonists did not have all the rights 
of Englishmen when they first arrived here. This meant that the Declaration of Independence was based on an inaccurate account of the colonies' 
relationship to the king, who had not had to concede any of the rights of 
Englishmen to the colonists. From Marshall's point of view, a rejection of the Jeffersonian version of the past buttressed opinions like the one in 
Dartmouth College-in which a royal charter took precedence (as the 
rights of the Indians took precedence) over state legislation. It also might 
be said to have justified Marshall in reasoning from general legal theories 
instead of directly from the Constitution and the constitutional understanding of the state ratification conventions.
State sovereignty? Never heard of itThe logic of Marshall's legal thinking nearly led to war in the early 1830s, 
when it was applied to the issue of tariffs.In 1828, Congress had passed and President John Quincy Adams had 
signed into law the Tariff of Abominations, which raised the standard tariff rate to 50 percent. At a time when much of America was agricultural 
and many goods were only available from abroad, a 50 percent tax on all 
imports struck many as outrageous. The South Carolina legislature 
responded by issuing its Exposition and Protest, in which it went on 
record saying that each state had the right to interpose to prevent the 
enforcement of federal policy within its borders if the federal government 
adopted a policy that was unconstitutional and dangerous.Matters worsened during the Nullification Crisis of 1832-1833. South 
Carolina responded to the Tariff of 1832 by electing a popular convention, which nullified the tariff.President Andrew Jackson prepared to invade South Carolina. South 
Carolina's government and private citizens throughout the state prepared 
the militia to resist. Virginia's governor secretly planned to take South 
Carolina's side in case Jackson tried to march through Virginia to get at 
the Palmetto State. And Jackson issued a Nullification Proclamation 
denying the constitutionality of both nullification and secession. Nullification, he insisted, was treason. Repeating Marshall's arguments from 
McCulloch v. Maryland, Jackson argued that the United States had been created by one American people, not by separate states. Just as Jefferson 
had expected, the one thing that the Supreme Court and the executive 
could agree on was that federal power was supreme.
Senator Henry Clay stepped in to arrange a compromise. Tariffs were 
reduced-slowly. Senator John C. Calhoun of South Carolina would not 
be hanged for treason (for supporting his state). Jackson would not repent. 
The South Carolina Convention met again, repealed the nullification 
ordinance, nullified the statute empowering Jackson to put down nullification by force, and declared victory.Marshall finally gets one rightA Bill of Rights to Protect 
the Sovereign StatesEven John Marshall conceded, in Barron v. 
Baltimore (1833), that the Bill of Rights did 
not affect the powers of the states, but 
only those of the federal government.This was the context of Marshall's last significant constitutional decision, 
Barron v. Baltimore (1833). The city of Baltimore, Maryland, had, in the 
course of making city improvements, altered 
the flow of water into the Chesapeake Bay, 
which in turn led to a buildup of silt around 
the wharf of John Barron. Barron said the 
value of his wharf had been so damaged that 
it amounted to a government seizure of his 
property for which he ought to be compensated by the city under the Takings Clause of 
the Fifth Amendment ("... nor shall private 
property be taken for public use without just 
compensation").Marshall described the issue as one of 
"great importance, but not of much difficulty." The Fifth Amendment, like the rest of the Bill of Rights, had been 
adopted as a limitation on the federal government alone. The movement 
to affix amendments to the Constitution arose out of fears that the new 
government was too powerful, and the amendments' purpose was to hedge that power. Thus, if Barron wanted Baltimore to be forced to compensate him for its injury to his property, he would have to seek his remedy in a state, not a federal, court.
In the end, then, Marshall decided a constitutional case correctly. This 
outcome calls to mind the old saying about the stopped clock.
 








Chapter Six










UNDOING MARSHALLAND UNDOING THE UNIONven before John Marshall left office feet first in 1835, the winds 
of change were already buffeting the Supreme Court. First, a succession of Republican presidencies undercut his sway within the 
Court itself. Finally, Andrew Jackson's election in 1829 brought to power 
a man with a completely novel understanding of the federal system.In 1832 Jackson vetoed a bill to recharter the second Bank of the 
United States. In his Bank Bill Veto Message, Jackson said that the McCulloch v. Maryland decision had not decided the issue of the 1816 bank 
charter's constitutionality. It might be that the Supreme Court thought so, 
he said, but he was sworn to uphold the Constitution as he understood 
it, not as the Supreme Court told him it was. As he adhered to the Jeffersonian view of congressional authority, he based his veto in part on the 
recharter bill's unconstitutionality.Jackson also decried what he called the tendency of government to rain 
its blessings solely on the rich. In the manner of Jeffersonians before him 
and the Democrats he led, Jackson viewed banking as little more than a 
mechanism by which bankers could print money for their own benefit. 
The congressional requirement that federal tax revenues be deposited 
solely in the Bank of the United States ensured that the bank would make 
a profit. This profit would be realized as a transfer of money from the populace at large to a few wealthy, well-connected shareholders, some of 
whom (gasp!) were British.
Guess what?-.' Chief Justice Roger 
B. Taney was one 
of the ablest in the 
history of the 
Court-and also 
one of the most 
disastrously 
political.-40 Anti-slavery had 
been divisive from 
the beginningand it was only the 
constitutional 
protections for 
slavery that 
brought and kept 
some Southern 
states into the 
Union.
In the early nineteenth century, corporate charters were special privileges. Businessmen could not simply pay a nominal fee and fill out a 
short form to incorporate their companies, as they can today. Instead, 
they had to secure special legislation granting them the privileges of the 
corporate form: limited liability of shareholders and immortality of the 
corporation. Jackson was right, then, to see incorporation as a special 
privilege to which average men had virtually no access.Not only did Jackson veto the bank recharter, but he also ordered his 
secretary of the treasury, Louis McLane, to remove the federal deposits 
from the Bank of the United States. McLane, mindful of the law requiring him to deposit the funds in the Bank, refused. Jackson fired him. It 
took Jackson a while and another short-lived secretary to come upon 
someone willing to ignore plain statutory requirements at the president's 
behest, but he finally lit upon the person of Roger B. Taney.Jackson would reward Taney for his subservience by appointing him 
to replace John Marshall as chief justice of the United States. Serving in 
the post from 1836 to 1864, Taney would ultimately become the most 
controversial chief justice in American history. He also is generally 
regarded as among the ablest. Among his accomplishments was the elimination, at least by implication, of some of the Marshall Court's more 
absurd pronouncements."The object and end of all government"The difference between Taney and Marshall is most clearly to be found 
in the 1837 case of Charles River Bridge v. Warren Bridge. That case 
involved the Massachusetts legislature's powers and the Constitution's 
Contracts Clause. Under a 1785 grant, the legislature had given the 
Charles River Bridge Company a charter to build a bridge connecting Boston to towns to its north, along with the power to collect tolls. In 
1828, it authorized the Warren Bridge Company to build a new bridge 
nearby and collect the tolls necessary to pay for the construction; once 
the construction costs had been covered, the bridge was to revert to the 
Commonwealth and tolls would cease to be collected.
Daniel Webster, who had represented Dartmouth College in the Marshall Court's signal Contracts Clause/charters case, argued that the Contracts Clause forbade the Massachusetts legislature's 1828 action. He said 
that this amounted to a repeal of the Charles River Bridge Company's 
charter, as it would become impossible for the Charles River Bridge Company to collect any tolls once a free bridge stood close by.For the majority, Taney ruled against Webster and the Charles River 
Bridge Company. Writing in dissent, justice Joseph Story argued that the 
1785 grant to the Charles River Bridge Company should be construed 
"liberally"-inferring an implicit promise that nothing would be done to 
eliminate the value of the charter, such as chartering another company to 
build a free bridge nearby. In private correspondence, Story lamented the 
passing of the old Federalist order on the Court, saying that he was certain his old friend Chief Justice Marshall would have ruled differently 
from Taney.But in his opinion for the Court, Taney said that disputes about grants 
by the public, when their implications were unclear, must be decided in 
favor of the public. "The object and end of all government is to promote 
the happiness and prosperity of the community by which it is established," he wrote, "and it can never be assumed, that the government 
intended to diminish its power of accomplishing the end for which it was 
created."Technology had advanced rapidly since 1785, and Taney's opinion 
reflected that fact. The country was "continually advancing in numbers 
and wealth," he wrote, so that "new channels of communication are daily 
found necessary, both for travel and trade, and are essential to the comfort, convenience and prosperity of the people.... And when a corporation alleges, that a State has surrendered for seventy years its power 
of improvement and public accommodation, in a great and important line 
of travel ... the community have a right to insist that its abandonment 
ought not to be presumed, in a case in which the deliberate purpose of 
the state to abandon it does not appear." State power, he concluded in 
language evocative of Jackson's Bank Bill Veto Message, should never be 
presumed to have been transferred "to the hands of privileged corporations."
Clearly much had changed since Dartmouth College v. Woodward. 
Note what had not changed, however: Taney and his colleagues did not 
undo the Marshall Court's egregious holding that a charter is a contract 
under the Contracts Clause. They merely read the charter in the Charles 
River Bridge case as not binding the state beyond its bare terms, construed narrowly. Where doubt was found, in other words, they would err 
in favor of the public, but without undoing the Marshall Court holding at 
root. This pattern of non-correction has come to characterize Supreme 
Court decisions revisiting dubious earlier decisions. Very seldom does 
the Supreme Court reverse an earlier holding when it first notices that it 
was simply wrong.Taney tackles the Commerce and Contracts ClausesThis tendency of the Taney Court to respect state legislation the Marshall 
Court would have struck down was also clear in the 1837 case of Briscoe 
v. Bank of Kentucky. Article I, Section 10 of the Constitution prohibits the 
states from, among other things, issuing bills of credit. The question in 
this case was whether that prohibition applied to the Bank of Kentucky, 
a corporation owned by the state of Kentucky. The Court ruled that the 
prohibition did not apply, because the bank was not the state itself and 
the bills of credit were redeemable by the bank, not by the state. This decision allowed state banks to step into the breach left by Jackson's elimination of the Bank of the United States; they could issue notes that were 
the equivalent of paper money.
Also in 1837, in an opinion by justice Philip P. Barbour (a Virginian 
neighbor of James Madison and staunch devotee of Jeffersonian principles), the Court decided in New York v. Miln to rein in Marshall's 
absurdly nationalistic Commerce Clause opinion in the 1824 steamboat 
case Gibbons v. Ogden. As in Charles River Bridge, however, the correction was merely implicit.Miln involved state regulation of the port of New York. That state 
required ship captains to provide authorities with lists of the passengers 
on their ships, post bond for indigent passengers, and remove certain 
indigent aliens. The defendants protested that this violated the Commerce Clause. Justice Barbour, however, for the Court said that the New 
York law was merely a police law, and insisted that a state could as well 
protect itself against "the moral pestilence of paupers, vagabonds, and 
possibly convicts" as against "the physical pestilence" of sick people. A 
concurring justice pointed out that state commercial regulations had previously been ruled unconstitutional (in the Gibbons steamboat case) 
only when they conflicted with federal ones. Justice Story dissented, citing Gibbons to argue that Congress had exclusive power over regulating 
commerce. No one joined Story's dissent.
Portrait of a JusticeRoger Taney (1777-1864) reined in the Marshall Court's constitutional nationalism in a series of decisions from the 1830s through the 1860s. He also braved 
the arbitrary government of Abraham Lincoln in cases such as Ex parte Merryman. His name is most associated, however, with the invention of "substantive due process" (the last 
refuge of judicial scoundrels) in Dred Scott v. Sandford-a blatantly partisan, rigged decision by the 
Court's Democratic majority. It should not surprise that Taney sank to such partisanship, because his 
appointment to the Court had been owing to his willingness as treasury secretary to follow Andrew 
Jackson's order illegally to remove the federal deposits from the second Bank of the United States.
The premier Taney-era Commerce Clause case was 1851's Cooley v. 
Board of Wardens. At issue was a Pennsylvania statute requiring every 
ship entering or leaving the port of Philadelphia to hire a local pilot. 
Aaron Cooley, who owned two ships named in the case, claimed that the 
law violated the Commerce Clause.The Court ruled in favor of the state, noting that Congress had explicitly recognized state pilot regulations in one of its own statutes. Striking 
down this regulation as unconstitutional, the Court said, would mean 
striking down an untold number of other state regulations. And it noted 
that Congress had rarely intervened in this area. The Taney Court's moderate approach to the Commerce Clause's meaning for state legislative 
power has been retained, essentially, ever since.Lest one conclude that Taney and his associates always favored states' 
rights, however, consider the 1843 case of Bronson v. Kinzie. Arthur Bronson attempted to foreclose on a property owned by his debtor, John 
Kinzie. He ran afoul of two 1841 Illinois statutes restricting the coercive 
power of creditors.Bronson claimed that as the Illinois laws were retroactive, and as his 
contract with Kinzie had been entered into before 1841, the laws violated 
the Contracts Clause. Taney sided with Bronson, as he clearly should 
have, as these were exactly the kinds of circumstances to which the Contracts Clause had been intended to apply. (Remember those stay laws 
adopted by state legislatures during the American Revolution?)States' rights did not mean to Taney-as they did not mean to Jefferson, 
Madison, or Taylor-that states were free under the Constitution to do 
whatever they wanted to do. In fact, the Constitution does prohibit certain 
kinds of state behavior, and judges were obliged to enforce these prohibi tions, as Taney and his mainly Democratic colleagues did in Bronson v. 
Kinzie. Illinois had adopted legislation reducing creditors' rights (that is, 
impairing the obligation of a contract), and the Supreme Court held it to 
be unconstitutional. As we shall see, faced with similar legislation a century later, Taney's successors would not be so quick to live up to their oath 
to uphold the Constitution and to do equal justice to rich and poor.
The War for Southern IndependenceTaney's term as chief justice is dominated in historical memory by the 
legal disputes leading up to and arising out of the war of 1861-1865. 
Before we can discuss those issues, we must first deal with the question 
of what to call the war.Nearly as soon as shots were fired, people in the Union began calling 
it the "Civil War." This term is clearly misleading. A civil war is a war for 
control of a single government, like the civil wars of seventeenth-century 
England, twentieth-century Russia, and twentieth-century Spain. The 
English Civil War, between monarchists and supporters of the legal 
claims of Parliament, was for control of the English government, and 
whichever side lost would necessarily be ruled by the other. The same 
goes for the Russian Civil War between the Reds and the Whites and for 
the Spanish Civil War between Francisco Franco's forces and the Republicans.In the American war of 1861-1865, the Confederate states had no 
desire to rule New York or Indiana. They wanted to separate from them, 
to achieve independence. The Union, for its part, wanted to subjugate the 
Confederacy, to force the seceded states to accept northern rule. In that 
sense, the war was analogous to the war of 1775-1783, in which the 
Americans had no desire to rule people in Yorkshire or Glasgow, while 
the British wanted to subjugate the Americans. No one, I think, would 
call the American Revolution a civil war.
What of "War of the Rebellion," which in some senses became the official Union name for the war? This title assumes the validity of the northern constitutional position of the day, which was that the Union of 1788 
was not really a union of states but an amalgamation, a consolidation, and 
so the southern war effort was a rebellion-a war against legitimate 
authority. Yet, as we have seen, there was no point at which Virginia, for 
example, agreed to join in a consolidation, to be amalgamated into one 
American mass. Rather, the delegates to the Richmond Ratification Convention of 1788 were told that their state would remain one of thirteen 
parties to a confederation, and that it could reclaim all its old powers if 
the federal government should pervert those powers to Virginia's injury. 
Doing so, then, was not a rebellion, but part of the constitutional system 
that the 1788 convention in Richmond had agreed to accept. So "War of 
the Rebellion" does not fit either.On the other hand, many southerners, such as former Confederate vice 
president Alexander Stephens of Georgia, have called it the War Between 
the States. In some sense, it is true that the war was between the states, 
and yet the war effort was waged on each side mainly by a federal government: the Union in the North, the Confederacy in the South. Thus, 
that name, too, seems inaccurate. The most descriptive nonpartisan name 
of the war I have seen is the War for Southern Independence. That was 
the issue. (I suppose one might call it the War against Southern Independence with equal validity, but no one ever does.)Taney's tenure on the Supreme Court is remembered mainly for its 
relationship to the crisis leading up to, and for the Court's behavior during, the War for Southern Independence.All men are (not really) born free and equalSlavery had been an issue of legal controversy from the very beginning 
of the country. For example, in his original draft of Virginia's May 1776 Declaration of Rights George Mason asserted that all men are born equally 
free and independent. But this was inadequate, because the Virginia 
draftsmen recognized that they had to confront the existence of slavery. 
So they amended that first American declaration of rights to say that all 
men are born free and equal, and, when they enter into a state of society, 
government has to protect their rights. Black slaves' exclusion from the 
process of making the new republican society left the new government 
without any responsibility to protect their rights. Thomas Jefferson and 
his Virginian peers viewed the blacks in their midst not as "African 
Americans," but as captive Africans, a foreign people.
Northern states felt freer to act against slavery because they faced fewer 
social and economic complications from it. Thus Massachusetts's 1780 
constitution, which today is the world's oldest constitution, said that all men were born 
free and equal. Massachusetts courts in the 
1780s declared slavery unconstitutional in 
the Bay State on that basis. Generally, the 
farther north a state was, the more at ease it 
felt in acting against slavery immediately.When the Philadelphia Convention of 
1787 got around to discussing slavery, opinion was divided. Delegates from northern 
states like Gouverneur Morris lamented the existence of slavery in the 
United States in the harshest terms and did not want it protected in the 
new constitution.George Mason argued in favor of ending the importation of slaves 
immediately. He too argued that slavery was a moral blight, and said that 
nothing good could come from importing more slaves.From the Deep South states of Georgia and South Carolina came a completely different kind of argument. The Palmetto State's leading revolutionary politician, future Supreme Court chief justice John Rutledge, insisted on protection for slavery. He wanted to leave individual states 
able to continue to import slaves at their discretion, and he wanted states 
into which slaves escaped to be required by the new constitution to 
return them to their masters. Without significant protection for slavery, 
he thundered, South Carolina would never ratify any new federal charter. His South Carolina colleagues, as well as all the Georgians, agreed.
It Wasn't a Civil WarThe war of 1861-1865 was not a civil war, 
because the southern states did not want 
to rule the North.
The Deep South's delegates were a minority, yet they proved adept at 
political maneuver. Virginia's Mason, representing the export-producing 
southern states, held that Congress should not be given a power to levy 
tariffs-taxes on imports-by mere majority vote, and New Englanders, 
whose states were home to the great shipping companies that stood to 
benefit from differential duties on domestically and foreign-owned ships, 
disagreed.Finally, Connecticut's Roger Sherman approached Rutledge with a 
deal: support the right of a bare congressional majority to levy tariffs, he 
said, and we will go with you on importing slaves for twenty more years. 
Rutledge happily agreed. To boot, the Constitution gave Rutledge the 
Fugitive Slave Clause on which he had insisted; it also counted each 
slave as three-fifths of a person for purposes of apportioning the House 
of Representatives, which also affected apportionment of the electoral 
college, which gave slaveholders more say in choosing all appointed officials. Thus the Constitution was full of pro-slavery provisions.As the Philadelphia Convention met, the old Confederation Congress 
was adopting the Northwest Ordinance to establish how the Northwest 
Territory could enter the Union as several states. Among the provisions 
of the Northwest Ordinance was one "forever" prohibiting slavery from 
the Territory.Opponents of slavery in Taney's day pointed to the Northwest Ordinance's geographic restriction of slavery as evidence that the men who 
guided the Revolution and the federation of 1788 opposed slavery in the 
abstract, on moral grounds. This idea is given the lie by the correspon dence of Virginia congressman William Grayson (then president of Congress). The night Congress passed the Northwest Ordinance, Grayson 
wrote a letter boasting that it was a wonderful development for Virginia, 
because it guaranteed that the Northwest would never be able to compete 
with Virginia tobacco production. In other words, he saw the banning of 
slavery in the Northwest Ordinance as an economic benefit to the South, 
not a moral victory for slavery's opponents.
In 1789, in the first Congress under the new Constitution, a proposal 
was made in the House to tax the importation of slaves. South Carolina 
congressman Aedanus Burke countered that any such tax would mean 
the end of the Union, as South Carolina would sooner secede than see 
such a tax implemented. Moreover, as we have already seen, leaders of 
the 1790s Jeffersonian opposition like Virginia's John Taylor of Caroline 
warned that one implication of the Hamiltonian reading of congressional 
powers behind adoption of the carriage tax, one ground on which that tax 
must be opposed, was that a mere majority in Congress could tax property in slaves. Slavery was a touchy subject, then, from the beginning.The Jeffersonian revolution of 1800 put an end to this fear until 1819. 
But fear that Congress might act against slavery, reawakened by the Missouri Controversy, underlay South Carolina's growing opposition to the 
tariffs favored by the New England states in the 1820s. In addition, 
because tariffs hit the agricultural South harder than the industrial North, 
South Carolinians could see tariffs as a partisan measure threatening their 
slave-based agricultural economy.The matter reached a crescendo in the 1840s and 1850s over the issue 
of the United States' westward expansion. In 1836 Texas had declared and 
won its independence from Mexico. Texas wanted to be annexed by the 
United States, but Democrats in control of the federal government in 
Washington refused. The Democrats feared inflaming anti-slavery feeling 
by adding so enormous a slave territory to the Union. President John Tyler, 
however, finally did annex Texas in 1845, through some constitutional legerdemain: when the Senate refused to ratify an annexation treaty with 
the Lone Star Republic, he persuaded Congress to accept Texas into the 
Union by concurrent resolution-the mechanism long used to elevate 
American territories to statehood.
As the Mexicans had warned, the Mexican War (1846-1848) soon followed. Its 
importance for us here is that even before 
the war had been won, Pennsylvania congressman David Wilmot proposed legislation barring slavery from any territory 
wrested from Mexico. Congress could not 
decide whether to accept Wilmot's idea. 
South Carolinian John C. Calhoun had seen 
this coming and had opposed the Mexican 
War because he feared that disputes over slavery in the new territories 
would destroy the Union.Henry Clay managed to paper over the differences for a moment. The 
Compromise of 1850 (the year Calhoun died) immediately admitted California to the Union as a free state, but also included a new fugitive slave 
law, which gave teeth to the Constitution's Fugitive Slave Clause.Northern opposition to implementation of the Constitution's Fugitive 
Slave Clause had already been growing. In 1843 Vermont and Massachusetts had adopted laws nullifying the 1793 Fugitive Slave Act, and they 
adopted similar measures against the Fugitive Slave Act of 1850. In 1854, 
the Wisconsin Supreme Court followed suit in In re Booth. The same 
political interests that had opposed South Carolina's nullification of an 
arguably unconstitutional protective tariff now supported nullification of 
the Fugitive Slave Clause of the Constitution itself.Throw into the mix the ongoing tension in Congress over settlement of 
the western territories and you have a powder keg of sectional hostility. 
Presidential ambition made it more likely that the powder keg would be lit.Legal LatinismsObiter dictum: Language in a judicial 
opinion utterly unnecessary for the decision of the case.
In 1854, Illinois senator Stephen Douglas proposed the KansasNebraska Act. It negated the Missouri Compromise's exclusion of slavery 
from most of the Louisiana Purchase territory and substituted what Douglas called "popular sovereignty." Douglas, a Democrat who needed 
Southern support, adopted the Jeffersonian principle of home rule: the 
people in Kansas and Nebraska should decide the slavery issue for themselves.President Franklin Pierce (a great-uncle of Barbara Bush) signed the 
Kansas-Nebraska Act into law. Pierce was from New Hampshire, but the 
act was immediately unpopular in the North and was responsible for the 
founding in 1854 of today's Republican Party.Originally, the Republican Party was a single-issue party opposed to 
slavery's expansion. In 1856 it nominated a virtual political unknown, 
John C. Fremont, for president. The Democrats countered with James 
Buchanan, who had been governor of Pennsylvania, a senator, a cabinet 
member, and a minister to Britain. Buchanan won-narrowly.Dred Scott v. SandfordThis, then, was the political milieu in which the most significant of Chief 
Justice Taney's rulings, in political terms, would be made. From 
Buchanan's point of view, as from the intensely partisan Taney's, something 
had to be done about the slavery issue. Republicans had made no pretense 
of appealing to the entire country; they were frankly anti-Southern, they 
had nominated a nobody for president against an extremely qualified 
Democrat-and they had almost won. Buchanan and Taney feared the 
Republicans might destroy the Democratic Party and the Union.President-elect Buchanan and Chief Justice Taney engaged in extensive correspondence about the issue. Taney thought he had a solution. If 
the pending case of Dred Scott v. Sandford were decided in the "right" 
way, it could resolve the issue once and for all. Besides agreeing that this must happen, Buchanan and Taney also lobbied the other Democrats on 
the Supreme Court extensively to secure this outcome. They succeeded, 
but the results were devastating.
Dred Scott was a slave. He had been taken into free territory by his 
master and then returned to his home state of Missouri. He sued in federal court to establish that he was a free man because of his sojourn in 
free territory. Under Missouri case law, Scott was entitled to his freedom. 
In the context of the growing turmoil over slavery, however, the top Missouri court reversed the lower court's ruling freeing Scott.Scott brought his appeal under the federal courts' diversity of citizenship jurisdiction. That is, he claimed that he was a citizen of one state, 
his owner (by now living in New York) a citizen of another, and so the 
federal courts were empowered to hear the dispute between them. The 
Supreme Court ultimately denied that Scott's assertions about citizenship 
were true.Why? Because Scott was black. According to Taney, there had been a 
consensus in the country at the time of the Constitution's adoption that 
black people had "no rights that a white man is bound to respect," and 
thus the makers of the Constitution had not intended to allow blacks to 
become citizens of the United States. They could be citizens of particular states, he said, but not of the United States. Thus, Scott was not entitled to bring a federal appeal under the federal courts' diversity 
jurisdiction.Now, if Taney had simply, at the beginning, denied that the case fell 
under the federal courts' jurisdiction, that would have been that. Since 
they have only limited jurisdiction, federal courts typically begin by asking whether they have jurisdiction over a particular case, then close the 
books if they don't. But Taney's primary interest was to make a political 
point and help the Democratic Party, so although he had already concluded that the Court had no jurisdiction, he took up other issues surrounding the case.
Taney wrote that Scott remained a slave because Congress had no 
power to exclude slavery from federal territory. Slaves were property protected by the Constitution, and to prohibit citizens from taking them into 
federal territory was a violation of the Fifth Amendment's prohibition of 
deprivation of property without due process of law. The provision of the 
Missouri Compromise purporting to exclude slavery from the remaining 
portion of the Louisiana Purchase north of Missouri's southern border 
was therefore unconstitutional.Taney also pointed out that the status of a person like Scott in Missouri 
was entirely a matter of Missouri law. If Missouri considered him to be a 
slave, a slave he was. This was not a federal issue.For some reason, Buchanan and Taney expected this decision to quiet 
the roiling waters of American slavery politics. Among other things, Dred 
Scott had declared the Republicans' platform-"no slavery in the territo- 
ries"-unconstitutional. So, they thought, there would be no further Fremont scares for hyper-qualified Democratic presidential nominees like 
Buchanan.In dissent, however, justice Benjamin Curtis had a field day with 
Taney's opinion (which, it should be noted, did not command a majority 
among his colleagues in all its particulars). Among other things, he said, 
"When a strict interpretation of the Constitution, according to the fixed 
rules which govern the interpretation of laws, is abandoned, and the theoretical opinions of individuals are allowed to control its meaning, we 
have no longer a Constitution; we are under the government of individual men, who for the time being have power to declare what the Constitution is, according to their own views of what it ought to mean."Does Justice Curtis's lament in dissent that the Court is not relying on 
"a strict interpretation of the Constitution, according to the fixed rules 
which govern the interpretation of laws" sound familiar?Before 1857 passed into the history books, Dred Scott was joined by 
two other notable events in sparking northern anti-Democratic outrage. First, President Buchanan reneged on his pledge to give Douglas's popular sovereignty formula a fair trial in Kansas. Instead, he threw his weight 
behind the Lecompton Constitution, which pro-slavery forces had 
adopted through a transparently corrupt process. As a result, Douglasthe leading Democrat in the Senate-broke with Buchanan.
Second, South Carolina congressman Preston Brooks used a cane to 
beat Massachusetts senator Charles Sumner silly on the Senate floor, for 
the crime of viciously mocking South Carolina senator Andrew Butler. 
Northern newspapers, clergymen, and others responded with outrage, 
while Brooks received a supply of fresh canes from across the Southincluding one from students at the University of Virginia inscribed "Hit 
Him Again!"One legacy of Dred Scott v. Sandford was that after 1857, virtually any 
Republican candidate was sure to beat Buchanan for president in 1860which would almost certainly mean the dissolution of the Union. Republicans, despite their advantages, opted not to nominate one of their 
established statesmen, but chose instead someone nearly as obscure as 
their 1856 candidate had been: Abraham Lincoln.
 








Chapter Seven










THE WAR FOR SOUTHERN 
INDEPENDENCE AS A 
CONSTITUTIONAL CRISIShe Republican platform of 1860 was anathema to Southerners. 
It called for a high protective tariff, it opposed the Dred Scott 
decision, and it implicitly raised the question of how federalism 
could survive a federal administration hostile to the South.As a politician in the 1850s, Lincoln had said excluding slavery from 
the United States' western territories was the first step to abolishing it 
everywhere. Further, he said that the deportation of all blacks from the 
United States would be a "glorious consummation."Southerners feared that a Republican president would circulate antislavery literature among southern slaves, refuse to enforce the Fugitive 
Slave Law, bar slavery from the territories, and generally make their situation very dangerous. Not a single southern state had voted for Lincoln, 
and between his election in 1860 and his inauguration in 1861, the seven 
Deep South states seceded from the Union.The seceding states justified their actions chiefly on the basis that the 
northern states were unwilling to comply with the Constitution-and thus 
were a threat to slavery in the South. South Carolina, following Calhoun's 
teaching and the example of 1832's Nullification Convention, seceded 
through exactly the same type of convention as had ratified the Constitution in the first place. In the spirit of the Declaration of Independence, the people had decided that the federal government was not protecting their 
rights, and so they were reclaiming their powers from it.
Guess what?-.' Republicans argued 
that secession was 
impossible-but 
then set conditions 
(ratifying the 
Fourteenth Amendment) before allowing the Southern 
states back into a 
Union they allegedly 
had never left!-sW The Fourteenth 
Amendment was 
never constitutionally 
proposed to the states 
by Congress and 
never constitutionally 
ratified by the states, 
and yet today it 
stands as one of the 
most significant parts 
of the American legal 
system.
Other Deep South states seceded in different ways, including referendum and legislative enactment. Some, such as Virginia, convened secession conventions and decided, for the moment, not to secede.Then, shortly after his inauguration, Lincoln declared a blockade of 
southern ports. Under the law of nations, only a country could be blockaded, which raises the question of whether Lincoln was implicitly recognizing the Confederacy's independence. He next called for volunteers to 
invade the states of the Deep South and force them back into the Union. 
At that point, Virginia's secession convention reconvened and opted to 
secede, as did Arkansas, Tennessee, and North Carolina.Initially, many northerners conceded the validity of secession. In fact, 
some abolitionists had been calling for northern secession for years. In 
Congress, several congressmen from northern states proposed amendments to limit the right of secession, de facto conceding that the right of 
secession already existed. And, logically, it had to exist, because without 
such a right, the American colonies/states could not have seceded from 
the British Empire.The Federalists always insisted during the ratification debates-knowing 
they had to in order to win approval for the Constitution-that the states 
were individual parties to a federal compact. Spelling out the logic of the 
compact, three states-Virginia, Maryland, and Rhode Island-explicitly 
reserved (in the act of ratifying the Constitution) their right to secede from 
the Union. And one can easily deduce a right to secession from the language of the Tenth Amendment: because the Constitution does not prohibit secession, that power, like all the other "powers not delegated to the 
United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the states," is 
"reserved to the states."Yet, in his inaugural address, Abraham Lincoln called secession an 
impossibility. Representative Otis S. Ferry of Connecticut must have been surprised at this, as he had only weeks before proposed an amendment 
to the Constitution forbidding secession without the consent of Congress, 
the president, and the other states. Still, Lincoln said that states could not 
secede.
In response to opponents of his war measures, Lincoln suspended the 
writ of habeas corpus-the ancient English protection against arbitrary 
arrest and imprisonment. Article I of the Constitution empowers Congress 
to suspend access to the writ in times of emergency, but Lincoln acted as 
both legislator and executive (as he had when he called for volunteers for 
a war Congress had not yet agreed to fund). In Federalist 47 James Madison had written that "the accumulation of all powers, legislative, executive, and judiciary, in the same hands, whether of one, a few, or many, 
and whether hereditary, self-appointed, or elective, may justly be pronounced the very definition of tyranny."Lincoln used the arbitrary power he had thus granted himself to muzzle opposition, whether in the form of critical newspapers, Democratic 
politicians, or potentially unfriendly state legislatures, in numerous 
ways. In Maryland, this took the form of imprisoning state legislators who 
disagreed with him. In one particularly notorious case, Ex parte Val- 
landigham, a prominent Ohio politician, Clement Vallandigham, was 
expelled from the United States-banished to the Confederacy-because 
of his criticism of Lincoln's conduct.Vallandigham's precise words were that the "present war is a wicked, 
cruel, and unnecessary war, one not waged for the preservation of the 
Union, but for the purpose of crushing out liberty and to erect a despotism." He was arrested by a military commission despite the fact that he 
was not a member of the armed forces and not in a war zone, and he 
asked the nearest Supreme Court justice for a writ of habeas corpus. He 
was rebuffed, because to grant such a request would be to "embarrass or 
thwart" President Lincoln.
Taney examines "the very definition of tyranny"Chief Justice Taney became involved in the habeas corpus controversy in 
Ex parte Merryman (1861). The case centered on Lieutenant John Merryman, who served in the Maryland cavalry and allegedly sympathized 
with secessionists in his home state. As part of the Lincoln administration's crackdown on dissent, he was arrested.Chief Justice Taney issued a writ of habeas corpus and tried to have it 
served, but the generals involved in the case said that the public interest 
required that Merryman be kept under arrest. Taney tried to force the 
issue. He ruled that Merryman should be released and he denounced the 
president's exercise, through his generals, of arbitrary authority and 
unconstitutional power. Only Congress could suspend the writ of habeas 
corpus, he thundered, not the president. (Indeed, the power to suspend 
the writ is in Article I, the legislative article, of the Constitution. It would 
make no sense for the executive to be able to suspend the writ, which is 
a protection against arbitrariness in the executive branch.)Lincoln's DoublespeakLincoln's blockade of southern ports introduced an interesting constitutional question: according 
to the law of nations, blockades were allowed only between warring countries. Lincoln insisted 
that the Confederacy was not a country, but a rebel region-so was he violating international law 
or recognizing Confederate independence? Neither outcome would have been very good for him, 
so the Supreme Court handily rescued him in 1862 by deciding that the Confederacy was a foreign 
country in regard to blockades, but a rebellious region in all other respects!
Taney noted of Lincoln that, in suspending the writ, he had exercised 
legislative power, and in arresting and punishing Merryman without due 
process, he had exercised judicial power. Merryman could as easily have 
been brought to trial before a federal court in Baltimore. As Taney saw 
things, "if the authority which the constitution has confided to the judicial department and judicial officers, may thus, upon any pretext or 
under any circumstances, be usurped by the military power, at its discretion, the people of the United States are no longer living under a government of laws but every citizen holds life, liberty and property at the will 
and pleasure of the army officer in whose military district he may happen to be found." But he could not enforce his ruling, he said, in the face 
of a military force "too strong for me to overcome."The Chicago Tribune and the New York Tribune both criticized Taney 
as a foolish old man. The latter wrote that he "takes sides with traitors" 
and hoped that Taney would not have to be arrested. The Washington 
Evening Star opined that Taney had been correct as to the law, but had 
ignored the state of things. The law, it seems, was very inconvenient to 
the Republican administration. And no one, apparently, could enforce 
the law. When the House of Representatives asked for information on 
people who were being held without access to habeas corpus, Lincoln 
simply refused.Taney, of course, was a Maryland Democrat, opposed to the Lincoln 
administration. Privately, the chief justice hoped that North and South 
would negotiate "a peaceful separation with free institutions in each section" instead of "the union of all the present states under a military government & a reign of terror." But whatever his personal opinions, no one 
has ever been able persuasively to argue that Taney was not upholding 
the Constitution or that Lincoln was not violating it.Lincoln responded to Taney's order by explaining to Congress that he 
had empowered generals throughout the country to suspend the writ of 
habeas corpus as necessary. He asked, "Are all the laws, but one to go unexecuted, and the government itself go to pieces, lest that one be violated?" His implicit answer was "no," and so he would decide from time 
to time which particular laws to ignore and which constitutional provisions to violate in his quest to subjugate the Confederacy.
In taking this approach, Lincoln established what would become an 
enduring pattern of presidential behavior. What made Chief Justice Taney 
different from most of his wartime successors on the Supreme Court was 
his determination to enforce constitutional limitations on wartime executive power.Lincoln also early proclaimed a blockade of southern ports. This step 
involved some difficulty, both constitutional and diplomatic. Diplomatically, the law of nations of the day allowed blockades only between warring countries, and yet Lincoln insisted that the southern Confederacy 
was not a country, but a rebel region. So was Lincoln violating international law, or was he recognizing Confederate independence? Not to 
worry: in the Prize Cases (1862), the Supreme Court held that the Confederacy was a foreign country when it came to blockades, but a rebellious region for all other purposes! Here the Supreme Court effectively 
abdicated its role of (as John Marshall put it) declaring "what the law is" 
in favor of John Jay's theory that the judges should work toward the success of the administration.Constitutionally, Lincoln here once again was acting as Chief Legislator. No one argued that declaring blockades was not a legislative function. 
But then, no branch of the federal government was determined to hold 
Lincoln to the law (although a minority of four justices did say in the 
Prize Cases that the blockade had not been legal until Congress made it 
so).Republicans, angry with Taney over Dred Scott and Merryman and not 
particularly interested in the rule of law, discussed abolishing the 
Supreme Court and establishing a new one. In 1862 they expanded 
the Court to ten members. Between 1860 and 1863, three Taney allies on the Court departed (one resigned and two died). When Taney died in 
1864, the Supreme Court effectively became Lincoln's Court.
Before he died Taney had drafted memoranda showing that federal 
conscription and the federal government's issuance of paper money were 
both unconstitutional (neither power is listed in the Constitution). But he 
never had the opportunity to act on his memoranda.The Emancipation ProclamationOf course, the most astounding constitutional innovation Lincoln made 
was his Emancipation Proclamation of 1863. By that act, which he justified on the basis of his war powers as president, Lincoln abolished 
slavery-but only in those portions of the Confederacy not occupied by 
the Union.Patrick Henry had predicted in the Richmond Ratification Convention 
of 1788 that a president would someday invade Virginia, burn down delegates' houses, declare it a military necessity, and free the slaves. Even 
now, more than 140 years since it actually came to pass as Henry predicted, this prognostication is treated as demagogic scare-mongering in 
most accounts of the Richmond Convention and most biographies of 
Henry and James Madison.Indeed, it was an outlandish claim. Who would have thought that an 
American president would do such a thing? After all, Lincoln had no constitutional warrant for it whatsoever-only what he called his "inherent 
powers," a term broad enough to cover almost any wartime behavior. The 
Court never ruled on the constitutionality of the Emancipation Proclamation, and the issue became moot after the ratification of the Thirteenth 
Amendment, which the southern states (except Mississippi) were coerced 
into "ratifying" at the end of the war.The sum of Lincoln's constitutionalism seems to have been "whatever 
I favor is constitutional." He waged a war to prove the impossibility of secession, yet he supported secession in 1863 when he recognized the 
western-pro-Union-counties of Virginia as the new state of West Virginia. He did the latter despite the Constitution, which requires a state's 
consent before a new state can be formed from its territory.
In an essay on the Confederacy, journalist H. L. Mencken noted that it 
was the South that was fighting for "government of the people, by the 
people, for the people." He could have added that the southern states had 
a higher regard for the Constitution than did the president who forcibly 
returned them to the Union.The "reconstruction" of the ConstitutionAfter the war, the North occupied the southern states with the intent of 
"reconstructing" them on a submissive line. Lincoln hoped to incorporate the southern states into his remade United States as quickly as possible. So as the Federal armies brought wide swaths of the Confederacy 
under Union control, he favored leniency in allowing former Confederate officers to vote and hold office. He tried to persuade southerners of 
his conciliatory intentions by running on a Union (not a Republican) 
ticket in 1864 with Tennessee Democrat Andrew Johnson as his running 
mate.Lincoln's assassination at the end of the war made Johnson president. 
Johnson immediately antagonized the Republican Congress (which didn't 
like him anyway) by pardoning high-ranking and wealthy Confederates. 
He vetoed the Civil Rights Act of 1866 as a violation of states' rights (on 
the grounds that contracts, real estate transactions, and access to courts 
had always been within states' rights to regulate, and nothing had happened to change that).Republicans in Congress responded with the Fourteenth Amendment. Here 
we have a budding revolution in American constitutional government-if 
indeed it can still be called that. The Fourteenth Amendment was ulti mately "ratified" in 1868, according to the official version. In reality, as 
eminent constitutional historian Professor Forrest McDonald has demonstrated, the Fourteenth Amendment was never ratified at all.
Under Article V of the Constitution, 
three-fourths of the states must ratify any 
constitutional amendment. It is taken for 
granted, of course, that the states would be 
acting free from coercion. If Iran suddenly 
conquered the United States and compelled 
three-fourths of the states to adopt an 
amendment making Muslim sharia law the 
law of the land, that amendment would, of 
course, be invalid. But something very similar to this outlandish scenario happened 
with the Fourteenth Amendment.The northern Republicans who dominated Congress refused to seat southern congressmen on the grounds that 
the southern states had not been properly "reconstructed" yet (and had 
elected Democrats). By seceding from the Union, the Republicans argued, 
the southern states had ceased to exist as states. President Johnson countered that excluding southerners from Congress meant that there was no 
valid Congress at all. If Lincoln was right that secession was impossible, 
then the southern states did not secede because they could not secede; an 
amendment proposed by a Congress representing twenty-five states could 
therefore not constitutionally be ratified to bind the thirty-six-state 
Union. Besides that, Nevada and West Virginia, admitted to the Union 
during the war, had not been constitutionally admitted as states.The Senate vote on the Fourteenth Amendment was thirty-three votes 
in favor to eleven opposed, with five abstentions (and one senator who 
voted nay didn't have his vote counted because he was ejected from the 
chamber on a majority vote of the Senate-an expulsion that should have required a two-thirds vote). The four senators from West Virginia and 
Nevada voted aye. If one subtracts these four dubious votes and adds 
twenty-two nay votes from the excluded southern states, the Fourteenth 
Amendment did not even have majority support in the Senate.
Legal LatinismsHabeas corpus: Latin for "you have the 
body." The primary function of a writ of 
habeas corpus is to release someone from 
unlawful imprisonment. It directs the person holding a prisoner to either justify the 
detention to a court or release him.
As the amendment wended its way toward "ratification," three northern states that had ratified it rescinded their ratifications. In the South, 
every state except Tennessee at first voted not to ratify, then changed their 
votes under congressional threat. Only Mississippi held out.In Tennessee, when opponents of the Fourteenth Amendment 
absented themselves from the state house-in order to deny proponents 
a quorum-two absent members were arrested. They secured a court 
order that they be released pursuant to a writ of habeas corpus, but the 
House ignored the writ, held them in a cloakroom, overruled the House 
Speaker's decision that they were not present, and voted to ratify the 
amendment.In Oregon, the Republicans had a clear majority in the Senate but only 
a narrow one in the state's House of Representatives. Two Republican representatives whose elections had been challenged were seated, and they 
accounted for the margin of ratification. Their seats were later awarded 
to Democrats, and ratification was rescinded.By the time the first southern states took up the matter, five northern 
states had "ratified." Texas led the way among southern states: the Texas 
Senate voted no by twenty-seven to one, and the House joined in by seventy to five. Two weeks later, Georgia's Senate voted no unanimously; its 
House had only two aye votes. Florida, Arkansas, and the Carolinas 
joined in by similar-or even greater-margins. (In Florida, both houses 
were unanimous in rejecting the amendment.)California's governor refused to call a special session to consider the 
matter. Virginia, Alabama, Mississippi, Louisiana, Kentucky, and 
Delaware all added their votes to the nay column. Maryland followed 
next. Ohio and New Jersey would soon rescind their ratifications.
In March 1867, Congress used the Reconstruction Act to extort ratification of the Fourteenth Amendment. State ratification of the Fourteenth 
Amendment, Congress declared, must precede readmission of the states 
to the Union; until that had been achieved, there were "no legal state governments" in the South. Oddly, this pronouncement applied even to the 
six former Confederate states whose votes had counted toward ratification of the Thirteenth Amendment. It also overturned Lincoln's entire 
rationale for the war-that the southern states had never actually 
seceded, because they could not do so. Congress now said that they had 
seceded, which meant that the "civil war" had really been a war of conquest against a foreign country (the Confederacy), and Congress could 
now set the terms by which the Confederacy's states could be forcibly 
returned to the Union.Meanwhile, in Ex parte Milligan (1866), the Supreme Court greatly 
restricted the ability of the executive branch to enforce its will in 
wartime. Lambdin P. Milligan had been charged with conspiring to seize 
federal munitions and to free Confederate prisoners. Justice David Davis, 
for the unanimous Court, said that the Constitution was not suspended 
in wartime, but applied "equally in time of war and peace." Thus trials 
before military commissions such as Milligan had received in Indianawell behind Union lines, well away from the war zone-fell afoul of the 
Constitution's requirements that suspects be indicted before trial and that 
they be tried publicly before juries so long as civilian courts were functioning.The relevance of this decision to the ratification of the Fourteenth 
Amendment lies in its recognition that the chief executive is not empowered by the Constitution to extort whatever he wants from the citizenry 
or the states. Just calling a state a military district (as the southern states 
were designated by the federal government) did not give Republicans 
carte blanche to dub the Constitution "amended." President Johnson, for 
his part, called Congress's action-forcing southern approval of the Fourteenth Amendment by putting congressional representation at riskan unconstitutional bill of attainder (declaring someone guilty without a 
trial) against the nine million people living in the southern states. It was 
more than that. As Wisconsin senator James Doolittle put it, "The people 
of the South have rejected the constitutional amendment," so the North 
would "march upon them and force them to 
adopt it at the point of the bayonet." They 
would remain under military dictatorship, 
Doolittle said, "until they do adopt it."
Milligan asked the Supreme Court to 
block Congress's political blackmail, and the 
Court replied that before any court issued a 
ruling, "the rights in danger... must be 
rights of persons or property, not merely 
political rights, which do not belong to the 
jurisdiction of a court."And so the Fourteenth Amendment was 
"ratified." As Forrest McDonald puts it, 
"Despairing of stopping the congressional juggernaut, ruled by military 
commanders who removed governors and judges at will, and swept by 
rumors that Congress intended to confiscate and redistribute their property (as some Radicals indeed did), the southern states began to capitulate."Arkansas voted to ratify the amendment by April 6, 1868-although it 
still had not been recognized by Congress as having a valid government 
under the 1867 act. Next came Florida, which decided, in its own words, 
"as dictated by the Acts of Congress as conditions precedent to admission," to ratify on June 9. Congress recognized that the Florida legislature 
had ratified the amendment with language different from the congressionally proposed version. But when it noticed that New York, Pennsylvania, 
Michigan, and Wisconsin had done the same, Congress decided to accept Florida's ratification as valid and ignore the sometimes marked differences among the versions the states had approved!
The South Was RightThe southern states had every right to 
secede in 1860-1861. In fact, Virginia, 
Maryland, and Rhode Island had ratified 
the Constitution on the explicit understanding that they could withdraw 
from it.
Congress next decided, on June 25, 1868, that the remaining southern 
states would be entitled to statehood once they ratified the amendment. 
But, of course, only a state can ratify an amendment. Soon enough, North 
Carolina, South Carolina, Louisiana, and Alabama had "ratified." Secretary of State William H. Seward then proclaimed that the amendment had 
been ratified.Thus, the Fourteenth Amendment was never constitutionally proposed to the states by Congress and never constitutionally ratified by the 
states, and yet today it stands (after the Constitution's structural provisions) as the most significant part of the American legal system. As we 
will see, when Americans think of, for example, their First Amendment 
rights, the supposed rights they have in mind are almost always actually 
their Fourteenth Amendment Due Process Clause rights-rights that 
come from an unratified amendment.A case concerning the constitutionality of the Republican rump Congress's Reconstruction methods made its way to the Supreme Court in 
1869. That case, Ex parte McCardle, arose from the military arrest of a 
Vicksburg, Mississippi, newspaper editor. William McCardle had dared 
criticize the Reconstruction Acts as unconstitutional, which was not 
allowed in occupied Mississippi. He requested a writ of habeas corpus of 
a federal court in Mississippi, which rejected his request, so he turned to 
the Supreme Court. Congress, fearing that its unconstitutional treatment 
of the South might well be struck down, at least in this particular, passed 
a law removing the Supreme Court's power to hear such appeals.On the same day, in Texas v. White, the Court declared that the Constitution "looks to an indestructible Union, composed of indestructible 
states," and ruled that in fact Texas had never seceded, and that Texans 
had been wrong to think otherwise. The ruling was five to three, with the 
majority decision issued by Chief Justice Salmon P. Chase, a former Lincoln cabinet member (who arguably should have recused himself) 
whose logic was less than convincing. Its constitutional basis was in Article IV's statement that "the United States shall guarantee to every State 
in this Union a Republican Form of Government." Allegedly this proved 
that the Constitution supposed "an indestructible Union." The Latin 
phrase for such decisions is ipse dixit: asserted but not proved. Chase's 
decision nevertheless had the force of law.
The following year, the states ratified the 
Fifteenth Amendment, which eliminated 
restrictions of the right to vote based on 
"race, color, or previous condition of servitude." One little-noticed but important 
aspect of the Fifteenth Amendment is that it 
effectively overturned Section 2 of the Fourteenth Amendment. That section penalized 
states by reducing their congressional representation if they denied people the right to 
vote. The Fourteenth Amendment, then, did not ban all discrimination, 
a distinction that will be important later.The Court's first pass at interpreting the Fourteenth Amendment came 
in the Slaughterhouse Cases of 1873. The issue before the Court was the 
extent to which the Fourteenth Amendment had remade American federalism; its decision was "not much."The appellants in the case were white butchers from the area around 
New Orleans, Louisiana. As Ronald M. Labbe and Jonathan Lurie make 
clear in The Slaughterhouse Cases: Regulation, Reconstruction, and the 
Fourteenth Amendment, the Court faced a stark choice: bring virtually 
every area of state lawmaking under the supervision of federal courts, or 
not. The justices decided not to.The butchers claimed that a state law confining butchering to one location in the New Orleans region affected them in four negative ways:Legal LatinismsDe facto: Latin for "in fact, indeed, actually." Used to characterize something or 
someone present in fact, but illegal or 
illegitimate.
1. It created an involuntary servitude in violation of the Thirteenth Amendment.2. It deprived them of "privileges or immunities of citizens of 
the United States" in violation of Section 1 of the Fourteenth 
Amendment.3. It denied them the equal protection of the laws in violation of 
Section 1 of the Fourteenth Amendment.4. It deprived them of property without due process of law 
despite Section 1 of the Fourteenth Amendment.The Court easily rejected the idea that the butchers' plight resembled 
slavery, so the state law itself did not violate the Thirteenth Amendment. 
But when it came to allegedly violating the butchers' "privileges or 
immunities of citizens of the United States," the Court noted that the 
Fourteenth Amendment retained a distinction between state and federal 
citizenship, and thus deduced that not all rights enjoyed by Americans 
were rights they had as citizens of the United States; some areas of law 
were still provinces of the several states. The Court recognized that to call 
a right "federal" would mean that the power of the federal courts over the 
states would expand. Surprisingly, the Court limited its supervisory 
power.Here, the Court was helped by circuit court justice Bushrod Washington's decision in Corfield v. Coryell (1823). Washington had said (and here 
he did not innovate in any way) that the rights of state citizenship 
included "protection by the government, with the right to acquire and 
possess property of every kind, and to pursue and obtain happiness and 
safety, subject, nevertheless, to such restraints as the [state] government 
may prescribe for the general good."In Slaughterhouse, the Court asked, "Was it the purpose of the Fourteenth Amendment, by the simple declaration that no State should make or enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges and immunities of 
citizens of the United States [emphasis in the original], to transfer the 
security and protection of all the civil rights which we have mentioned, 
from the States to the Federal government? Such a construction ... would 
constitute this court a perpetual censor upon all legislation of the States."
In general, legal academics despise the Slaughterhouse decision 
because they do think the federal courts should be "a perpetual censor 
upon all legislation of the States." The Supreme Court of 1873, however, 
was more restrained. The specifically federal rights covered by the Fourteenth Amendment's category of "privileges or immunities of citizens of 
the United States," it decreed, were few. The Court identified the right to 
travel to the federal capital, the right to seek federal government protection, the right to work for the federal government, the right to use American ports, the right to federal protection when traveling on the high seas, 
and other rights of a similar nature as rights of federal citizenship.It also rejected the idea that the Fourteenth Amendment's Due Process 
Clause (which gave federal courts the power to enforce due process 
requirements against the states) applied to the butchers' claim. The Court 
noted that the Due Process Clause was intended to protect the freedmen 
in former slave states against arbitrary action by state governments, 
adding, "We doubt very much whether any action of a State not directed 
by way of discrimination against the negroes as a class, or on account of 
their race, will ever be held to come within the purview of this provision. 
It is so clearly a provision for that race and that emergency, that a strong 
case would be necessary for its application to any other."The justices who dissented from the Court's majority ruling said that 
the Privileges or Immunities Clause was supposed to apply to all the 
rights of citizens of free governments, and one dissenting justice said that 
the butchers had indeed been deprived of property without due process. 
Though the dissenters lost the day, their time would come, as future Courts gladly used the Fourteenth Amendment to claim a capacious 
national judicial authority.
Three years later, in Munn v. Illinois (1876), the Court upheld an Illinois law establishing maximum storage rates in grain warehouses in 
Chicago and certain other places as consistent with the Fourteenth 
Amendment's Due Process Clause. The Court said that while the Due 
Process Clause protected private property, the warehouses in question 
ceased to be strictly private when they were "devote[d] ... to a use in 
which the public has an interest."Soon, however, the public's interest would be determined less often by 
elected state legislatures and more often by unelected federal judges.
 








Chapter Eight










THE PRO-SEGREGATION 
SUPREME COURThe Supreme Court of the 1870s took a surprisingly Jacksonian 
view of the Constitution. It had announced in Texas v. White 
(1869) that the Union was permanent, as Jackson had insisted in 
nullification days, and it then refused in the Slaughterhouse Cases of 
1873 to use the new Fourteenth Amendment to expand the Court's power 
radically.But the Court did enforce the amendment. In Strauder v. West Virginia 
(1879), the Court confronted a case in which a black man had been found 
guilty by an all-white jury (only whites were allowed to sit on juries in 
West Virginia) of murdering his wife with a hatchet. The accused, Taylor 
Strauder, was clearly guilty, but he appealed the verdict under the Equal 
Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, claiming that the clause 
entitled him to a jury that included black jurors.The Court said that the real question was not whether a defendant had 
a right to a jury that included members of his race, but whether members 
of his race could be excluded from the jury pool.The Fourteenth Amendment's purpose, the Court said, was "securing 
to a race recently emancipated, a race that through many generations had 
been held in slavery, all the civil rights that the superior race enjoy." In 
other words, it said, blacks had under the Fourteenth Amendment "the 
right to exemption from unfriendly legislation against them distinctively as colored-exemption from legal discriminations, implying inferiority 
in civil society, lessening the security of their enjoyment of the rights 
which others enjoy."
Guess what?-40 The Fourteenth 
Amendment was 
meant to apply 
only to newly freed 
blacks, not to other 
categories of 
people, but the 
Supreme Court 
quickly expanded 
it to cover noncitizen residents 
and even 
corporations.- The Supreme 
Court's first 
segregation 
decision held that 
Louisiana could not 
bar segregation.-sue The Supreme Court 
ruled that the 
income tax was 
unconstitutional.
The West Virginia statute concerning all-white juries was therefore in 
violation of the Fourteenth Amendment and was struck down. The Fourteenth Amendment's purpose was to prevent "discrimination because of 
race or color"; it did not apply to qualifications based on sex, property, 
citizenship, age, or educational attainments, which might legitimately be 
applied to potential jurors."Instrumentalities of the state"? 
Sounds like socialism to meThe Court remained loyal to the view of the Fourteenth Amendment 
established in Slaughterhouse and Strauder in its most significant 
nineteenth-century decision about it: the Civil Rights Cases of 1883. The 
cases concerned the Civil Rights Act of 1875: "an Act to protect all citizens in their civil and legal rights."The act would have taken many areas of public policy reserved by the 
Constitution's framers and ratifiers exclusively to the states and given 
supreme authority over them to the federal government. Among other 
things, the act extended to "all persons within the jurisdiction of the 
United States" protection of their purported right of access to "inns, public conveyances .... theaters, and other places of public amusement." 
And it was on these grounds that the act was contested: does Congress 
have constitutional authority to make laws about private decisions 
regarding access to hotels, theaters, and the women's car on a train? Congress claimed that its power to adopt the Civil Rights Act flowed from the 
Fourteenth Amendment.But the Court held that the Fourteenth Amendment did not give Congress such sweeping powers. The Court ruled that the Fourteenth Amend ment banned "State action of a particular character," not the private 
actions of hotel owners or theater operators. The Fourteenth Amendment 
did not give Congress the power to force individuals or businesses to 
allow equal access to their private property. ("The prohibitions of the 
amendment," the Court majority said, "are against State laws and acts 
done under State authority.") Nor could the act be justified under the 
Thirteenth Amendment, because private decisions denying people access 
to inns, railroad cars, or theaters did not amount to slavery.
As Section 1 of the Fourteenth Amendment says that "No State shall" 
deprive anyone of the privileges or immunities of U.S. citizens, "nor shall 
any State deprive anyone of life, liberty, or property, without due process 
of law; nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws," there can be little doubt that the Court was right: the 
Fourteenth Amendment was designed to prevent state governments from 
discriminating against blacks, not empower Congress to open private 
facilities to them.The Court did not stop with mere textual analysis, although that was 
convincing enough. Instead, as in the Slaughterhouse Cases, it asked 
what would happen to the federal system if it ruled the other way. Such 
a holding, it said, would grant enormous new powers to Congress and 
would be "repugnant to the Tenth Amendment of the Constitution."This ruling seems self-evidently true, but the majority of history professors, law professors, and judges won't tell you that. They'll all refer 
you to the dissenting opinion entered by justice John Marshall Harlan.Harlan argued that the Court's majority opinion was merely "a subtle 
and ingenious verbal criticism." Private decisions denying people access 
to public accommodations were "badges of slavery and servitude," he said, 
and thus could be banned by Congress under the Thirteenth Amendment.Turning to the Fourteenth Amendment, Harlan said that its extension 
of state citizenship to blacks guaranteed them "exemption from race discrimination in respect of any civil right belonging to citizens of the white race in the same State." Even if the Fourteenth Amendment did not 
extend to completely private acts, Harlan continued, all the private organ- 
izations-"railroad corporations, keepers of inns, and managers of places 
of public amusement"-amounted to "agents or instrumentalities of the 
State ... because they [we]re amenable to governmental regulation."
Consider that claim again: Harlan reasoned that anyone "amenable to 
governmental regulation" was, because the government could regulate 
him, an "agent or instrumentality of" the state government. Is there any 
area of life in which twenty-first-century Americans are not subjected to 
"governmental regulation"? If not, they are all "instrumentalities of the 
State" in everything they do, by Harlan's reasoning.Harlan's opinion was, thank goodness, a minority opinion at the time. 
But it would not remain so.Segregation is in the eye of the beholderThe Court's evident interest in limiting the postwar amendments' effect 
on the federal system also manifested itself in a case not well known 
today. In Hall v. DeCuir (1877), its first segregation decision, the Court 
said that states could not bar segregation in passenger ships on the Mississippi River. Think about that: the Supreme Court's first segregation 
decision held that Louisiana could not bar segregation. As the ships in 
the case traveled between Mississippi and Louisiana, the commerce was 
interstate-thus, the Court said, under Congress's exclusive control. 
Therefore, a state could not require a ship to offer integrated facilities to 
any of its passengers, even those who traveled solely within one state. A 
concurring justice defended what later would be dubbed the "separate 
but equal" doctrine upholding local racial custom against state legislation.The Supreme Court revisited the question of disparate treatment of the 
races in the famous 1896 case Plessy V. Ferguson. That case involved seg regation in railroad cars, a practice that had 
come to be nearly universal in the former 
Confederate states.
Homer Plessy, a black man, entered a segregated railroad car with the intention of 
challenging the 1890 Louisiana state law 
requiring segregation of such cars. He 
claimed that exclusion on the basis of his 
race deprived him of the equal protection of 
the laws guaranteed by Section 1 of the Fourteenth Amendment. The 
Court disagreed."The object of the amendment," the Court said, "was undoubtedly to 
enforce the absolute equality of the two races before the law, but in the 
nature of things it could not have been intended to abolish distinctions 
based upon color, or to enforce social, as distinguished from political 
equality, or a commingling of the two races upon terms unsatisfactory to 
either. "Note the distinction the Court here made: legal or "political" equality 
was not the same as "social" equality. It continued:Laws permitting, and even requiring, their separation ... do not 
necessarily imply the inferiority of either race to the other, and 
have been generally... recognized as within the competency 
of the state legislatures in the exercise of their police power. 
The most common instance of this is connected with the establishment of separate schools for white and colored children, 
which has been held to be a valid exercise of the legislative 
power even by courts of States where the political rights of the 
colored race have been longest and most earnestly enforced.In plain English, the Court was saying that equality before the law, 
which the Equal Protection Clause required states to respect, was not a generalized equality. It did not include social equality. Segregation of the 
races by legislation was permissible, as was demonstrated by the fact that 
even in Boston, Massachusetts-the most pro-black jurisdiction in the 
country-public schools were segregated. The Fourteenth Amendment 
must be understood as having a limited reach, in other words, because 
everyone knows that public schools can be segregated without violating it.
Separate but Equal?"All animals are equal, but some animals 
are more equal than others."George Orwell, Animal Farm
Having made this distinction, the Court then asserted its right to judge 
the Louisiana segregation statute by a "reasonableness" standard. You 
may wonder where in the Constitution the Court is given the power to 
judge state statutes on the basis of "reasonableness." The answer is "nowhere." But the 
Court claimed to find it in the Due Process 
Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.The Court proclaimed that if it deemed a 
state law "unreasonable," it would "strike it 
down." In other words, the Court was 
assuming a veto power over "unreasonable" 
state laws. One might have thought that the 
question of "reasonableness" belonged to 
elected state legislatures and the people who 
elected them. It was one of the ratifiers' fundamental principles that Americans should 
resolve disputes about what is reasonable through elections. They did not 
expect judges to take over the role of King George. But the Court assumed 
that government by judiciary is preferable to government by legislators, 
a breathtaking arrogation of power by an institution that owes its existence to a Constitution ratified by state ratification conventions.In its "reasonableness" review in Plessy v. Ferguson, moreover, the 
Court delivered itself of one of the great "constitutional" howlers of all 
time. Louisiana's segregation law was reasonable, it concluded, because 
the Louisiana legislature was free to consider "established usages, cus toms and traditions of the people, and ... the promotion of their comfort ... and the preservation of the public peace and good order." If blacks 
believed segregation was an insult and an attempt to enforce white superiority, "it is not by reason of anything found in the act, but solely because 
the coloured race chooses to put that construction upon it."
Doesn't Sound 
Reasonable to MeBy the Court's "reasonableness" standard, 
segregation is reasonable-and so is the 
rule of judges rather than elected officials.
Elsewhere in its opinion, the majority noted that Congress had segregated the public schools in the District of Columbia without objection. 
This policy shed light on the proper understanding of the Equal Protection Clause.Once again in dissent, justice John Marshall Harlan issued a ringing 
objection. "The Constitution of the United States does not, I think, permit any public authority to know the race of those entitled to be protected 
in the enjoyment of [civil rights, common to all citizens]," he insisted. He 
decried the disjunction between the majority's statement that the stigma 
associated with segregation was only in black people's minds and the 
reality that laws like the Louisiana railroad segregation statute had been 
adopted "not so much to exclude white persons from railroad cars occupied by blacks, as to exclude colored people from coaches occupied by 
or assigned to white persons." He then asked, perhaps rhetorically, why 
a state entitled to segregate railroad cars might not as easily segregate various other areas of life.Justice Harlan noted that everyone would agree that Chinese people 
might properly be segregated, but they were different from blacks. This 
offhand observation did not reflect a generalized Supreme Court hostility to Asians, however, as had been demonstrated by the Court's decision 
in Yick Wo v. Hopkins (1886). In that case, the Court-taking an approach 
very similar to the one it had taken in Strauder-vindicated the claim of 
a Chinese resident of California.Yick Wo involved San Francisco city ordinances regulating the laundry 
business. San Francisco allowed city supervisors to determine (allegedly for 
reasons of safety) what wooden buildings could be used as laundries. By the time Yick Wo took the matter to court, the supervisors had denied all of the 
approximately two hundred applications by Chinese to run laundries, but 
had granted all but one of approximately eighty applications by nonChinese. Yick Wo was already running a laundry business and refused to 
pay a fine for not abiding by the city supervisors' regulations. So he was 
thrown in jail, as were other Chinese laundry owners, and subsequently 
petitioned for a writ of habeas corpus.
In its opinion, the Court said that the protection of the Fourteenth 
Amendment was not confined to citizens of the United States (many of 
the Chinese in San Francisco, including Yick Wo, were not citizens), that 
enforcement of the ordinance was blatantly discriminatory, and that the 
Court had the right to strike down such abuses of power by local authorities. The Court then ordered Yick Wo and his fellow laundry men 
released from prison.Supreme logic: A corporation is like a freed slaveIn that same year of 1886 the Court also heard arguments in Santa Clara 
County v. Southern Pacific Railroad Co. The historic decision in this case 
actually happened before the ruling. The chief justice announced that the 
Court didn't need to hear an argument about whether a corporation was 
a "person" entitled to the protection of the Equal Protection Clause. The 
justices, he said, had already agreed that it was!In reality, of course, the Fourteenth Amendment had nothing to do 
with corporations. It was directed particularly at freed slaves, but the late 
nineteenth-century Court favored corporations and used the Fourteenth 
Amendment to create the outcome it wanted.This predilection received one of its classic expressions in Allgeyer v. 
Louisiana (1897). At issue in Allgeyer was a Louisiana statute that regulated insurance companies selling marine insurance in the state. In applying the Fourteenth Amendment's Due Process Clause ("nor shall any State deprive any person of life, liberty, or property, without due process 
of law"), justice Rufus W. Peckham announced:
The liberty mentioned in [the Fourteenth Amendment] means 
not only the right of the citizen to be free from the mere physical restraint of his person, as by incarceration, but the term is 
deemed to embrace the right of the citizen to be free in the 
enjoyment of all his faculties; to be free to use them in all lawful ways; to live and work where he will; to earn his livelihood 
by any lawful calling; to pursue any livelihood or avocation, 
and for that purpose to enter into all contracts which may be 
proper, necessary and essential to his carrying out to a successful conclusion the purposes above mentioned.As Supreme Court expert David P. Currie put it, "This, of course, is not 
what was provided in Magna Charta, from which the due process clause 
had been derived, but Peckham did not pause to justify his momentous 
and latitudinous interpretation; and thus liberty of contract found its way 
into the Constitution by bald fiat." Indeed, and apparently whatever "liberty" meant under the Fourteenth Amendment, it did not include the 
right of a freely elected legislature to enact laws for the public benefit 
under the terms of the state's constitution.What practical effect did this "bald fiat" have in the case at hand? The 
Fourteenth Amendment's Due Process Clause was meant to ensure that 
defendants were guaranteed "due process of law." Now it was being misappropriated by the Court so the justices could sit in judgment on state statutes.It depends on your definition of "is"When President Bill Clinton said in his grand jury testimony, "It depends 
on what the meaning of the word `is' is," he could have been trying out 
for a seat on the Supreme Court. The Court has always had its own artful way with words, defining travel as commerce, charters as contracts, "necessary" as not really necessary, and so on. When it comes to "due 
process," the Court created the idea of "types" of due process. There are 
"procedural due process" and "substantive due process," which really 
amounts to a distinction between due process as it is meant in the Fourteenth Amendment and due process as an excuse for judicial usurpation. 
(The Court used the Fifth Amendment's Due Process Clause the same way 
in Dred Scott v. Sandford when it ruled that the clause required Congress 
to allow slavery in federal territories.)
For four decades, the Supreme Court used "due process" to create a 
laissez-faire principle of "liberty of contract" in American "constitutional" law. One might contend that laissez-faire is a good principle, but 
the goodness of laissez-faire is not the issue. The question is whether 
Americans are to be governed by their elected officials or by unelected 
judges who enforce whatever "principles" happen to appeal to them at 
any given time.Once the Court had undertaken to legislate in the name of "due 
process," it could not be expected to forever confine itself to policing the 
economy in the interests of laissez-faire. Power tends to corrupt, after all, 
and Supreme Court justices love power as much as anyone and have no 
lack of confidence in their own economic and moral insights.Congress not only acquiesced in the Supreme Court's usurpation of 
power, but also actively encouraged its expansion (as part of the general 
campaign to expand the powers of the federal government). At the end of 
the nineteenth century, Congress began creating administrative agencies 
with legislative, executive, and judicial powers, and it practically begged 
the courts to assume legislative functions.In 1887 Congress created the Interstate Commerce Commission. This 
agency, which would be responsible to no one, was to enforce an act 
requiring that railroad rates be "reasonable and just." Members of the 
five-man commission could hear complaints, audit railroads' accounts, and compel testimony. Its power to issue "cease and desist" orders to violators gave it what amounted to the power to set rates.
Did the Constitution give Congress the power to create such agencies? 
Certainly not. But respect for-even understanding of-such basic constitutional principles as the separation of powers had virtually vanished 
since the disputes over the Neutrality Proclamation of 1793 and the Alien 
Friends Act of 1798.In 1890 Congress adopted the Sherman Antitrust Act. It hardly 
amounted to "law" at all; it was merely a license to federal courts to concoct anti-big business rules. In fact, the language of the act does not even 
provide clear rules for avoiding violation of it. As Professor Thomas J. 
DiLorenzo has pointed out, the act was pushed by farmers who didn't 
want to have to compete with "giant wheat farms" (what they called 
"land monopolies") and by other groups that wanted to regulate railroad 
rates. The interests behind the act help to explain its incoherent and even 
nonsensical nature. The real purpose of the act was to allow politicians 
to claim they were fighting for the average Joe while they doled out benefits to organizations with political clout-small farmers' associations, 
inefficient sugar producers, inefficient petroleum producers, and otherswho were failing to compete with successful businesses that were growing rapidly and lowering prices.TR and Taft Go Trust-BustingThe Sherman Antitrust Act was utilized most vigorously in the early 1900s by Presidents Theodore 
Roosevelt and William Taft, who crusaded against such "trusts" as the Northern Securities Company, Standard Oil, and the American Tobacco Company-often with deleterious results.
The Sherman Act banned attempted monopolies or combinations of 
companies "in restraint of trade." But in the course of a decade, the Court 
differed over how the act should be enforced. In U.S. v. E.C. Knight Co. 
(1895), the Court allowed a corporation to acquire 98 percent of the 
American sugar industry's manufacturing sector. According to the Court, 
the Sherman Act did not cover purely intrastate activities such as refining.Justice John Marshall Harlan dissented, and just nine years later he 
won a majority to his dissenting approach. The 1904 case Northern Securities Co. v. United States turned on the question of whether a company's 
ownership of three railroads amounted to an "unreasonable restraint of 
trade." By a five to four vote, the Court said yes.Not only is "reasonableness" an inconsistent non-standard for businesses trying to keep within the "law," but what exactly are the grounds 
for handing federal judges authority to define "reasonable" business practices? To win an appointment to a federal court takes three qualifications: 
first, a law degree; second, the favor of a president; and third, the consent 
of the Senate. None of these three qualifications is any guarantee of business expertise.In fact, in the Sherman Act, Congress unconstitutionally delegated its 
legislative powers to the courts. It also gave the courts de facto power to 
violate the Fifth Amendment due process rights of business owners. They 
could now be penalized for "violating" vague and indefinite laws regarding "reasonable" business practices. Nevertheless, the Court accepted the 
delegation, and so the Sherman Act is still on the books.The income tax was unconstitutionalIn 1895, the Court considered whether the income tax statute of 1894 was 
constitutional. The law levied a tax of 2 percent on all annual incomes over $4,000. Like the Sherman Act, the income tax had been adopted in 
a spasm of class-based animus.
The Supreme Court, however, ruled in Pollock v. Farmers' Loan and 
Trust Co. (known as the Income Tax Case) (1895) that Congress had no 
constitutional authority to impose such a 
tax. The Court split violently over the 
Income Tax Case. In his concurring opinion, 
Justice Stephen J. Field warned, "The present assault upon capital is but the beginning. 
It will be but the stepping-stone to others, 
larger and more sweeping, till our political 
contests will become a war of the poor 
against the rich; a war constantly growing in 
intensity and bitterness." While the majority 
was right that the income tax was unconstitutional because it was a direct tax not 
apportioned equally among the states, 
Field's argument was more philosophical, 
even political, than legal. Soon enough, the 
Court would follow Field's lead in assuming the role of defender of capital against state-level legislative majorities. This itself was unconstitutional, given the Constitution's division of powers between the state and 
federal governments.In Lochner v. New York (1905), the Court went much further. In 1895, 
New York State had passed legislation to regulate working conditions in 
bakeries (among other things, bakery employees were limited to ten-hour 
work days and sixty-hour work weeks). Joseph Lochner, a baker who had 
been fined for overworking his employees, called the legislation unreasonable and invoked the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.Block That Trust!Since its inception in 1922, the National 
Football League has been exempt from 
the Sherman Antitrust Act. The NFL is 
allowed to operate its franchises (i.e., the 
teams) not as individual businesses but as 
a single entity, with each team getting an 
equal share of NFL-generated revenue.
The Court perhaps predictably agreed with Lochner that the statute violated the Due Process Clause. Justice Rufus W. Peckham, author of the 
Court majority's opinion in Allgeyer v. Louisiana, believed that the Fourteenth Amendment established a generalized liberty of contract-including the right to labor unlimited hours per week in a hot, stuffy bakery. The 
issue, then, was, "Is this a fair, reasonable, and appropriate exercise of the 
police power of the state, or is it an unreasonable, unnecessary, and arbitrary interference with the right of the individual to his personal liberty, 
or to enter into those contracts in relation to labor which may seem to him 
appropriate or necessary for the support of himself and his family?"Justice Peckham's answer to this question for the Court was, "The 
employee may desire to earn the extra money which would arise from his 
working more than the prescribed time, but this statute forbids the 
employer from permitting the employee to earn it."We may (I do) believe the statute at issue in Lochner, and other legislation like it, to have been unwise. We also may consider it no coincidence that one of the majority justices in this case was the son of a bakery 
owner. Still, that does not change the fact that the Constitution left legislation in this area entirely to the states. The Fourteenth Amendment's 
Due Process Clause was not intended to give a majority of Supreme Court 
justices veto power over all laws they did not like. Peckham's insistence 
that "this is not a question of substituting the judgment of the court for 
that of the legislature" shows that he recognized the obvious objection to 
the Court's ruling, but he proceeded to substitute the Court's judgment 
for the legislature's anyway.In 1908 (Adair v. United States) and 1915 (Coppage v. Kansas), the 
Court invoked "liberty of contract" so that employers could prohibit 
workers from joining labor unions, despite state laws to the contrary. The 
Court also pointed to "liberty of contract" to knock down minimum-wage 
legislation for women and children in Adkins v. Children's Hospital 
(1923). Congress had passed the legislation for the District of Columbia (for which Congress acts as a sort of state government). The Court held 
that because the Nineteenth Amendment now guaranteed women the 
vote, special legal protections for women were no longer necessary.
The Court even become involved in theater ticket prices in Tyson tr 
Bro.-United Theatre Ticket Offices v. Banton (1927), in which it invoked 
"liberty of contract" to strike down a state statute on theater ticket pricing.States had regulated economic activity since colonial days in ways that 
the Court now deemed "unconstitutional." Legislatures that ratified the 
Fourteenth Amendment did not intend for the Supreme Court to sit in 
judgment on theater ticket prices. Nor did they intend to surrender their 
Tenth Amendment rights to govern themselves. Yet here was the 
Supreme Court using its own "liberty of contract" doctrine to judge the 
economic regulations of the states.In the twentieth century, the Court's appetite for such power would 
only grow.
 








Chapter Nine










THE COURT VS. FDRupreme Court justices soon found another way to justify imposing their personal preferences on "constitutional law": they 
reached for trendy sociological studies and gave them equal or 
greater weight than the actual words of the Constitution.Perhaps the most famous example of this in the early twentieth century was in the case of Muller v. Oregon (1908). The question was whether 
Oregon could limit women's working hours (in order to protect their 
health). The counsel for Oregon was future Supreme Court justice Louis 
D. Brandeis, who presented a wide-ranging brief John Marshall would 
have loved. He argued that there was a correlation between the hours 
women worked and their health, which justified Oregon's legislation 
restricting the number of hours women could work. The remarkable thing 
about Brandeis's brief was that it was nearly devoid of citations to precedent, or of any legal argument at all; its argument was sociological, not 
constitutional or legal. And yet the Court was persuaded. Even though it 
had struck down New York's law restricting working hours for bakers, it 
upheld Oregon's law limiting working hours for women. Brandeis took 
advantage of the fact that the Court had lost all sense of the distinction 
between a court's function and a legislature's, and that it would rule in 
favor of whichever policy prescription it thought best.Guess what?-40 The Supreme Court 
used foreign law to 
decide that the 
federal government could 
conscript men into 
the military.- Americas 
constitutional 
traditions impeded 
the socialist 
doctrines that 
swept most other 
countries in the 
1930s.- Before FDR 
threatened the 
Supreme Court, it 
generally ruled 
against the state's 
economic 
legislation.
In 1917 the Court upheld legislation on maximum working hours for 
manufacturing employees in Bunting v. Oregon. Oregon's counsel presented another sociological brief, this one showing that employees' health 
was affected by the hours they worked. The Court, mesmerized by this 
data, upheld the legislation by a narrow majority.The Court's holdings in Muller and Bunting did conflict with the general "liberty of contract" trend. They can be understood as representing 
an older and more significant tendency of the Supreme Court, however: 
the tendency to act as the nation's supreme legislative chamber, overruling state legislatures and Congress. What was new was the growing conviction among politicians, journalists, lawyers, and academics that the 
Court was right to impose its will because the Constitution itself was outmoded and in need of replacement.This trend gained strength when Woodrow Wilson was elected president in 1912. Wilson, a political scientist, had long argued that America 
should move away from the Constitution's federal, three-branch system 
to something closer to the British model. The Constitution, Wilson said, 
was simply too inefficient; such cumbersome mechanisms as bicameralism and the 
presidential veto too often thwarted the popular will, to the detriment of the American 
public.Wilson believed the president should be 
the tribune of the people, largely unrestrained by the Constitution's limits on presidential authority. And the manifest trend of 
the twentieth century, supported by intellectuals and populist nationalists, was the consolidation of the power of the federal 
government at the expense of state sover eignty. In 1913 the Constitution was amended so that U.S. senators were 
elected directly by the people (rather than by the state legislatures), and 
Congress was given the power to levy income taxes. The First World War 
exacerbated this centralizing trend.
American Law, Anyone?The Supreme Court's 1918 decision that 
federal conscription is constitutional was 
explicitly based on contemporary practice 
in the German Empire, Austrian Empire, 
Russian Empire, Turkish Empire, British 
Empire, Japanese Empire.... Do you see a 
theme?
Uncle Sam wants YOU!The Court reflected the nationalistic, centralizing approach in the Selective Draft Law Cases (1918). When Lincoln enacted a military draft in 
1863 it had led to riots, and Chief Justice Taney drafted an opinion (never 
delivered; there was no case before the Court) denying that such legislation was constitutional. Taney reasoned that the Constitution did not give 
Congress the authority to draft men into service. Instead, it said it could 
raise and regulate armies, and it gave the federal government authority 
over the states' militias in certain circumstances. As the Continental and 
Confederation Congresses had raised armies by requisitions on the states 
and through economic inducements, Taney reasoned, that was the extent 
of Congress's power to "raise" armies.The defendants in 1918 made arguments similar to Taney's. They also 
made reference to the Thirteenth Amendment, which had been ratified 
since Taney's death and which said that only convicts could be subjected 
to involuntary servitude. The Court would have nothing of this.Chief Justice Edward D. White's decision for the Court leaped over the 
Constitution to argue that because foreign governments conscripted soldiers, this power was obviously one of the attributes of a national government; in other words, the Court argued that anything the Kaiser could do 
to his subjects, or the Commissars to theirs, the United States government 
could do to Americans. So much for "interpreting" the Constitution, and 
so much for the Constitution as a compact of sovereign states with powers protected by the Tenth Amendment. White said that citizenship entailed the "supreme and noble duty of contributing to the defense of 
the rights and honor of the nation," which is language not found in the 
Constitution.
Can you put that protest on hold until after the war?In another case related to the war, the Court supported the executive 
branch in Schenck v. United States (1919). Schenck involved the circulation by antiwar activists, including the general secretary of the Socialist Party, of pamphlets encouraging resistance to the draft. Here, Justice 
Oliver Wendell Holmes, the supposed avatar of freedom of speech, let 
forth the following enlightened blast: "When a nation is at war many 
things that might be said in time of peace are such a hindrance to its effort 
that their utterance will not be endured so long as men fight and ... no 
Court could regard them as protected by constitutional right."In other words, the Sedition Act of 1918, which banned saying anything to obstruct the war effort or bring the 
government into ill repute, was valid and constitutional. Apparently there is no constitutional right to protest against a war during a 
time of war, although you are free to protest 
the war once the war is over.Holmes, writing for a unanimous Court, 
said that Charles Schenck should be punished 
because his behavior was analogous to "shouting `fire' in a theatre and 
causing a panic." The First Amendment would have protected him "in 
many places and in ordinary times," but not just then.The next year, in Abrams v. United States, the Court, using the precedent of Schenck, upheld the conviction of Jacob Abrams, who was prosecuted for passing out leaflets urging munitions workers to go on strike, 
a violation of the Espionage Act of 1917. But this time Holmes dissented. He argued that there had been a clear and 
present danger in 1918, but not in 1919. "It is 
only the present danger of immediate evil or 
an intent to bring it about that warrants Congress in setting a limit to the expression of 
opinion where private rights are not concerned." But by what authority did Holmes 
set this standard? Surely not the First Amendment, which says that "Congress shall make 
no law... abridging the freedom of speech, or 
of the press."
A Book You're Not 
Supposed to ReadThe Military Draft: Selected Readings on 
Conscription, Martin Anderson, ed.; Stanford: Hoover Institution Press, 1982.
What a 
Justice Said"If the provisions of 
the Constitution be 
not upheld when they pinch as well as 
when they comfort, they may as well be 
abandoned."Justice Charles Evans HughesThe political platform of the Supreme Court: 
Pro-war, pro-child laborIf the Court supported the war effort and the Wilson administration's efforts 
to squelch dissent, it also continued to support economic freedom-this 
time despite constitutional allocation of power to Congress. In Hammer v. 
Dagenhart, also known as the Child Labor Case (1918), the Court intervened when Congress attempted to restrict child labor. The legislation prohibited interstate commerce by businesses that employed children; 
Congress invoked the Commerce Clause to justify it. The law was protested 
by a father of two teenaged North Carolina mill hands. He and other opponents of the law argued that it hurt poor families, and that only states, not 
the federal government, had the right to regulate labor.The Court struck down the law, saying that Congress could not prohibit interstate commerce in legitimate products. The Court majority conceded that in the past it had allowed Congress to use the commerce 
power to ban interstate travel for purposes of prostitution and to regulate 
the purity of food and drugs, but here it drew the line. Textiles were not 
human bodies or impure drugs. Note that the distinctions the Court made here had no basis whatsoever in the Constitution. Still, regulation of labor 
remained within the states' exclusive legislative ambit, and when Congress tried again to regulate child labor through its new powers of direct 
taxation, the Court again rejected the attempt in 1922s Child Labor Tax 
Case.
The Supreme Court's habitual elevation of its own legislative preferences over the Constitution was highlighted in Pierce v. Society of Sisters 
of the Holy Names of Jesus and Mary (1925). The case involved a 1922 
Oregon initiative that required nearly all children between the ages of 
eight and sixteen to attend public schools. The district court held the law 
invalid on the basis of the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment, and, on appeal, the Supreme Court agreed. The Court announced 
that the "liberty" recognized by the Due Process Clause extended to the 
right to send one's children to a non-public school, and so the Oregon 
enactment was invalid. But what this "right" had to do with "due process" 
(the Due Process Clause bars states from depriving anyone of life, liberty, 
or property without due process of law) remained a mystery. The Supreme 
Court's ruling in this case is still regarded as a binding precedent.The Supreme Court vs. the Roosevelt DemocratsWhile federal judges adhered to the doctrine of freedom of contract, alas, 
the other two branches of the federal government did not. Instead, by first 
constricting the money supply, then adopting enormously counterproductive tariffs, the Federal Reserve and the Republican Congress of the 
1920s launched the country into the Great Depression.By the time President Herbert Hoover came up for reelection in 1932, 
he was just as doomed to defeat as James Buchanan had been in 1860. His 
Democratic opponent, New York's Franklin Roosevelt, ran on a traditional free-trade, limited-government, Democratic platform. And he 
defeated Hoover overwhelmingly.
Almost immediately upon taking office, however, Roosevelt performed 
the greatest about-face in American political history: he instigated an 
enormous assertion of federal authority over the economy. The problem, 
as he and his lieutenants saw things, was that the American economy was 
too free. What were needed were some political geniuses in Washington 
to determine prices, quantities of output, working conditions, wages, 
bank schedules, and any other factors of economic life that came to mind, 
just as in the Soviet Union and Mussolini's fascist Italy. American intellectuals trumpeted the great accomplishments of fascists and communists 
abroad. Walter Duranty of the New York Times even won a Pulitzer Prize 
for laudatory reporting from the Soviet Union-while intentionally concealing Communist mass murder. Why shouldn't the United States share 
the pleasures of a centrally planned economy?The Supreme Court had its first notable confrontation with the rapid 
growth of government (which was occurring at both the state and federal 
levels) in 1934. In Home Building tr Loan Association v. Blaisdell, the 
Court, perhaps for the only time in history, considered the validity of a 
state law that actually violated the federal Constitution. The law granted Minnesota courts the power to exempt property from foreclosure for a 
temporary "emergency" period of time, "and in no event beyond May 1, 
1935." The Home Building and Loan Association called this law a violation of the Contracts Clause in Article I, Section 10 of the Constitution.
What a Justice Said"Emergency does not create power. Emergency does not increase granted power or remove or 
diminish the restrictions imposed upon power granted or reserved. The Constitution was adopted 
in a period of grave emergency. Its grants of power to the federal government and its limitations 
of the power of the States were determined in the light of emergency, and they are not altered by 
emergency."Justice Charles Evans Hughes
The Contracts Clause had been written with a case precisely like this 
in mind. It was meant to protect creditors and their ability to collect debts 
by prohibiting states from interfering with the obligation of contracts. 
And yet the Supreme Court upheld the law! Why? Because, in the words 
of Chief Justice Charles Evans Hughes, the law was "of a character appropriate to the emergency and allowed upon 
what are said to be reasonable conditions." 
Although the Constitution has no "emergency" clause attached to the Contracts Clause 
and no definition of "reasonable conditions," 
the Court felt fully justified in amending the 
Constitution, because, after all, what the Court 
said was "law."The Court began to move away from its liberty of contract ideology in Nebbia v. New York (1934) when it said that 
states could regulate milk prices. The Constitution does not actually prohibit such regulation, but the Court had to invent a justification for its ruling because it had previously struck down state economic regulations 
under the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. So the 
Court now took an expansive view of businesses that were "affected with 
a public interest" and thus could be regulated by the state.Yet surely the Supreme Court, so long a friend of "liberty of contract," 
would stand against the New Deal's litany of economic regulations? For 
a moment, and in part, it did.In Schechter Poultry Corp. v. United States (1935), the Court ruled the 
New Deal's National Industrial Recovery Act (NIRA) unconstitutional. 
The case came to the Court as an appeal. Schechter Poultry had been con victed of violating the "code of fair competition" under the act, because 
the corporation had hired people at lower wages and set them to work for 
longer hours than the president had decreed to be legal. Moreover, the 
corporation was accused of selling "an unfit chicken." The corporation's 
defenders argued that, with the unemployment rate hovering around 25 
percent, the corporation was providing people with work at fair market 
wages.
A Book You're Not 
Supposed to ReadThe Politically Incorrect Guide" to American 
History by Thomas Woods; Washington, DC: 
Regnery, 2004.
But the New Deal planners believed not only in raising wages and 
prices, but also in other elements of centralized economic planning. The 
NIRA regulations had come straight from the White House, not from Congress (which had delegated the president this power because of the economic "emergency").The Court found the NIRA void because it delegated excessive power 
to the president. The full extent of the president's powers under this act, 
the Court said, was "virtually unfettered." It was as broad as Congress's 
power under the Commerce Clause. "This," wrote justice Benjamin Cardozo, "is delegation run riot." If the United States was swept somewhat 
less by the rising tide of socialism that appeared in the Soviet Union, 
Germany, and Italy, besides Britain, France, and elsewhere to varying 
degrees in the 1930s, it was because America's constitutional traditions 
impeded it. These traditions did not, however, avert it completely. 
Indeed, in the end, Schechter proved to be an aberration-but not before 
the old guard on the Supreme Court struck down some additional New 
Deal legislation.In U.S. v. Butler (1936), the Court ruled that the New Deal's Agricultural Adjustment Act was unconstitutional, with justices Benjamin Cardozo, Louis Brandeis, and Harlan Fiske Stone dissenting. The Court ruled 
that the price- and production-setting powers claimed by the federal government were reserved to the states, as shown in the Constitution's ratification debates and the Tenth Amendment. One would be hard-pressed 
to name another Supreme Court decision of the twentieth century that so accurately interpreted the Constitution. 
Legal scholars, however, generally sympathize with the New Deal, and so you won't 
find much praise for the Court's decision in 
U.S. v. Butler. To these scholars, it's not the 
Constitution but their own policy preferences that matter.
In Carter v. Carter Coal Company (1936), 
the Court struck down similar legislation 
regulating the coal industry, though this 
time using its faulty "liberty of contract" theory.That same year the Democrats scored overwhelming electoral victories, and FDR called on Congress to help him fight the Supreme Court. 
His strategy was to appoint blatantly partisan justices who would rubberstamp his policies. Purportedly because many of his measures' opponents 
on the Court were more than seventy years old, he asked Congress to 
expand the Court by adding one justice for every sitting justice over seventy.Most historians and legal scholars criticize Roosevelt for his "courtpacking" scheme because they think it violates the Constitution's separation of powers. In other words, they criticize FDR not for trying to pack 
the Court, but for asking Congress to assert authority over it, diminishing 
the Court's significance. But Roosevelt was exactly right to demand congressional oversight of the Court, even if he did so for the wrong reason 
(which was essentially to read the Tenth Amendment out of the Constitution completely).For many, however, this was too radical. There was serious division, 
then, among Democrats over the desirability of the court-packing plan. 
Roosevelt's plan drew united opposition from southern Democrats and 
from Republicans. To borrow a phrase, it withered on the vine.Bet Your Law Professor 
Never Told YouFDR, and most presidents ever after, 
essentially tried to read the Tenth Amendment out of the Constitution.
Meanwhile, a change of heart occurred on the Court. Justices Charles 
Evans Hughes and Owen J. Roberts joined in "the switch in time that 
saved nine" by voting with the three-justice pro-New Deal minority in 
upholding New Deal legislation. The Court's new attitude made its first 
appearance in West Coast Hotel Co. v. Parrish (1937).The case involved a Washington state minimum wage law covering 
women and minors. Elsie Parrish, a maid at the West Coast Hotel, sued 
for the difference between the wages she had been paid and the wages 
she should have been paid under the law, which had been on the books 
since 1932. The hotel argued that the law was unconstitutional. But the 
Supreme Court, overturning its own "liberty of contract" precedents, 
ruled in favor of Parrish.Writing for the majority, Charles Evans Hughes exploded the doctrine 
of liberty of contract. "In each case the violation alleged by those attacking minimum wage regulation for women is deprivation of freedom of 
contract," Hughes wrote. "What is this freedom? The Constitution does 
not speak of freedom of contract. It speaks of liberty and prohibits the 
deprivation of liberty without due process of law.""In prohibiting that deprivation," Hughes said, "the Constitution does 
not recognize an absolute and uncontrolled liberty.... Regulation which 
is reasonable in relation to its subject and is adapted to the interests of 
the community is due process."The Court's decision was correct as a matter of constitutional law-the 
Fourteenth Amendment was not intended to make the Supreme Court 
into a protector of "freedom of contract" against state social legislation. 
Hughes did cloud the Court's opinion with superfluous economic pontifications about the "exploitation of a class of workers." But should anyone be surprised? Supreme Court justices have rarely spared us their 
uninformed opinions.
 








Chapter Ten










THE GRAND WIZARD'S 
IMPERIAL COURTaving given up its brief opposition to the New Deal, the 
Supreme Court now became FDR's rubber stamp. Seeing the 
Court reverse itself and (correctly) uphold the right of states to 
adopt minimum wage laws in West Coast Hotel Co. v. Parrish, Congress 
unconstitutionally adopted similar legislation-with no judicial opposition. (Where the Court formerly had prevented both the states and Congress from doing what the states alone had the right to do, it now allowed 
both the states and Congress to do what the states alone had the right to 
do.)Then, in National Labor Relations Board v. Jones tr Laughlin Steel Corporation (1937), the Court again eliminated its own precedents. Jones and 
Laughlin Steel had tried to prevent its workers from unionizing and fired 
those who did. The federal government intervened on the side of the fired 
workers, invoking the New Deal's pro-union National Labor Relations Act 
(commonly known as the Wagner Act). The steel corporation protested 
that the Wagner Act was unconstitutional-and lower courts agreed. But 
the Supreme Court backtracked from its own precedents and ruled that 
Congress, under the Commerce Clause, could regulate the economy in 
ways previously thought beyond its reach.Helvering v. Davis (1937) was the third case (after Jones & Laughlin and 
Parrish) that represented the Court's "switch in time" that staved off FDR's threat to pack it with his supporters. Helvering concerned the 
Social Security Act of 1935. Businesses, now subject to the Social Security tax, charged that the Social Security Act was unconstitutional, and 
certainly there is no provision in the Constitution for the federal government to run a pension program.
Guess what?-.' The states have the 
right to establish 
religions.- In 1942 the 
Supreme Court 
ruled that a farmer 
couldn't grow 
"surplus" wheat to 
feed his family and 
his livestock.-4W Justice Robert H. 
Jackson wrote in 
1953 of himself 
and his fellow 
justices, We are 
not final because 
we are infallible, 
but we are 
infallible only 
because we are 
final."
The Court's opinion was again larded with the sort of sociological data 
that might have been appropriate for a legislature considering legislation 
but not for a court interpreting the Constitution. What did ruminations 
about an aging population, a decline in charitable donations, declining 
state revenues, and other alleged effects of the Great Depression have to 
do with the Constitution? Precisely nothing, but the Court tried to make 
something out of nothing by ruling that the General Welfare Clause of 
Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution-which restricts Congress's taxation powers to promoting the "general" (as opposed to special interest) 
welfare-was actually a grant of power to Congress. Congress, the Court 
said, could itself determine what taxes (and what spending) promoted the 
"general welfare," thus once again ignoring the Tenth Amendment and 
shifting power from the states to the federal government."Updating" the framersProfessor Bernard Schwartz speaks for most academic analysts of the proFDR Supreme Court when he says, in his book A History of the Supreme 
Court, that the Court was simply "adjust[ing] the intent of the Framers to 
contemporary needs." Thus, the pre-1937 Court's defense of the Constitution against the New Deal's massive expansion of federal power had 
been, he says, "government by judiciary."The Court continued to "adjust [one might say "ignore"] the intent of 
the Framers." In 1941's United States v. Darby, it upheld federal mini mum wage legislation and overruled Hammer v. Dagenhart-the Child 
Labor Case-so that poor families could no longer send their children to 
work (except on family farms and in other family businesses).
In the 1942 case of Wickard v. Filburn, the Court produced a decision 
so absurd as to be beyond parody. The case concerned enforcement of the 
Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938, which restricted the acreage on 
which individual farmers could grow wheat. (Congress's stated goal was 
to prop up Depression farm incomes, not to starve the legions of already 
malnourished unemployed.) Roscoe Filburn, a wheat farmer in Ohio, 
exceeded his allotment by growing wheat 
to feed his family and his livestock. Filburn insisted that as his extra wheat was 
not intended for interstate commerce, 
Congress had no power to regulate it and 
could not punish him for growing his own 
food.The Supreme Court conceded that Filburn's actions had not been "commerce," 
but nevertheless ruled that this was immaterial. According to the Court, Congress could regulate any activity that 
"exerts a substantial economic effect on interstate commerce." "That [his] 
own contribution to the demand for wheat may be trivial by itself is not 
enough to remove him from the scope of federal regulation where, as 
here, his contribution, taken together with that of many others similarly 
situated, is far from trivial."As professor Richard Epstein of the University of Chicago has noted, 
by this measure the Commerce Clause gives Congress power to regulate 
"just about anything." It also makes an absolutely dead letter of the Tenth 
Amendment's reservation of undelegated powers to the states.A Book You're Not 
Supposed to ReadGovernment byludiciary: The Transformation of the Fourteenth Amendment by Raoul 
Berger (second edition); Indianapolis: Liberty 
Fund, 1997.
How the Constitution got "incorporated" 
rather than interpretedIn Darby, the Court had offered up the sage claim that the Tenth Amendment "states but a truism that all is retained which has not been surrendered. There is nothing in the history of its adoption to suggest that it was 
more than declaratory of the relationship between the national and state 
governments as it had been established by the Constitution before the 
Amendment."As we have seen, the second sentence of this statement is true: 
Edmund Randolph and other leading Federalists had vowed during the 
ratification process that Congress would have only the powers it was 
"expressly delegated," and the Tenth Amendment was only a restatement 
of this principle already said to be implicit in the unamended Constitution. But that does not answer the objection that nowhere in the Constitution was Congress "expressly delegated" power to undertake the 
extensive regulation of the economy-and, ultimately, of virtually every 
other conceivable area of human endeavor-that the Supreme Court 
allowed it to undertake after 1937. In other words, just because the Tenth 
Amendment principle that virtually all power was reserved to the states 
was understood before the Tenth Amendment was adopted does not 
mean that the Tenth Amendment principle should never be applied!A typical law school casebook, Donald Kommers, John Finn, and Gary 
Jacobsohn's American Constitutional Law (second edition), follows its 
excerpt from Wickard with the Tenth Amendment snippet from Darby, 
and then asks, "Do you agree?" Of course, without more, an aspiring 
lawyer can only weigh his political preferences; he cannot understand 
that what was under way in Darby, Wickard, and contemporary cases was 
a radically anti-constitutional transformation of the American federal 
system-a virtual judicial coup d'etat.
If the Court was going to get out of the business of limiting state and 
congressional initiative in the economic realm, what was it going to do 
instead? A hint came in the most famous (though, as we shall see, not the 
most revealing) footnote in the Court's history: U.S. v. Carolene Products 
Co. (1938), footnote four. There, in the midst of a majority opinion 
announcing that regulatory statutes would be presumed to be rational 
(thus blunting the old rational-basis test for statutes' constitutionality), 
the Court said that it was not necessary to 
consider whether such a "presumption of 
constitutionality" was appropriate in cases 
involving application of Bill of Rights provisions against the states, cases related to the 
political process, or cases involving "discrete and insular minorities."In other words, having left the business of 
enforcing authentically constitutional limitations on Congress's economic and social 
powers and having overturned its own 
unconstitutional (although largely socially 
desirable) limitations on state economic regulation, the Court had found a new role for itself: enforcer of Bill of Rights 
provisions and protector of "discrete and insular" (meaning, at first, 
mainly racial) minorities.Ironically, the Court's new use of the Bill of Rights was akin to the old 
laissez-faire majority's use of the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth 
Amendment. In the old cases that the Court disavowed beginning in 
1937, it had created a doctrine-"freedom of contract"-found nowhere 
in the Constitution, and it had used that doctrine as justification for invalidating a plethora of state policies the justices disliked.The Layman's View 
Sounds Like the 
Court's View"The layman's constitutional view is that 
what he likes is constitutional and that 
which he doesn't like is unconstitutional."Justice Hugo L. Black
In the new Bill of Rights cases, the Court would invent a concept- 
"incorporation"-unrelated to the Constitution's language and history 
and would use that concept as a justification for invalidating myriad 
types of state social policy.So what is "incorporation"? "Incorporation" was (and is) the Court's 
subterfuge to get around the plain historical fact that the Bill of Rights 
was ratified to limit the powers of the federal government alone. This fact 
had been affirmed by the unanimous Marshall Court decision in Barron 
v. Baltimore (1833).According to proponents of the Incorporation Doctrine, Barron was 
good law until 1868. Then the Fourteenth Amendment was (supposedly) 
ratified. When it said that no state could deprive anyone of life, liberty, 
or property without due process of law, it made the Bill of Rights (or at 
least the Court's favorite Bill of Rights provisions) enforceable by federal 
courts against the states.To paraphrase Justice Robert H. Jackson, the justices are not supreme 
because they are infallible; they are infallible because they are supreme. 
When a majority of them set their minds to enforcement of an Incorporation Doctrine, they can have their way.You might think that if a majority of justices set out to enforce a doctrine, like the Incorporation Doctrine, that is plainly at variance with historical truth, they would be hooted down in legal academia and the legal 
profession generally, and that eventually their mistake would be corrected through the appointment process. Three factors combined to allow 
the Incorporation Doctrine bacillus to work its way through the legal system:1. The nature of contemporary legal education2. The long-lasting ascendancy of the New Deal congressional 
(and intellectual) majority
3. The appeal to the intellectual class of the model of government that the Incorporation Doctrine decisions representLegal education today is much different from what it was in John Marshall's day, or even early in the twentieth century. When Thomas Jefferson and Edmund Randolph, John Marshall and Patrick Henry studied 
law, they did so by reading treatises in what was called the science of law. 
Common-law study was in its nature historical and theoretical, and familiarity with the history of England was essential to it.Now, however, American law students are almost universally subjected to the case method. Their texts are collections of judicial opinions, 
or in a few cases of statutes, with absolutely no historical context. One 
prominent legal academic at a leading law school responded to my 
friend's query why he had not assigned readings from The Federalist to 
his introductory class in constitutional law by saying that The Federalist 
was "irrelevant" to the subject of "constitutional law"-and he was right.In short, if the judges make a particular false assertion about the Constitution in numerous cases, students reading those opinions have no way 
of recognizing that assertion's falsity. They are provided no tools for analyzing judges' claims-only with scads of the opinions incorporating 
those claims. This is one reason why legal training should not be confused with an education.When the pro-New Deal position began its long (one might argue permanent) ascendancy on the Supreme Court, academia and the legal profession generally remained stocked with opponents. Non-liberals were in 
a decided minority among academics, then as now, but adherents to the 
old view on federalism remained numerous. Over time, however, Democrats' reign over Congress-nearly uninterrupted from 1933 to 1994meant that the federal courts came to be stocked with, stacked with, New 
Dealers-in fact if not in name. Even today's "conservatives" like justice Antonin Scalia give little thought to overturning the Incorporation Doctrine, for example, or the three 1937 precedents marking the Court's capitulation to the new political reality.
The centralized model of government that the New Deal embodied 
appeals to the socialist leanings of most intellectuals. Something in the 
typical intellectual finds the idea of the philosopher king-or the philosopher court-appealing. Who needs all those dirty elections, all that 
demeaning electioneering, anyway, when you can get the right result by 
following the Rule of Five: he who has five votes, rules? (The term "Rule 
of Five" comes from the late justice William Brennan, the outstanding 
example of an American judge who promiscuously used his power to 
substitute his preferences for the preferences of the Constitution's ratifiers and the electorate.)With the thin reed of the Fourteenth Amendment's Due Process Clause 
as its support, the Court undertook to redefine American church-state relations, race relations, federal-state relations, the rights of accused criminals, the freedoms of speech and the press, and, in the end, sexual 
mores-even normality. The jumping-off point was a determined (and 
ongoing) attempt to secularize American society, thus bringing more of it 
under the Court's own purview and that of the federal government.
Portrait of a JusticeHugo Black (1886-1971) was the leading proponent of the Incorporation Doctrine by which the Supreme Court in the twentieth century applied various provisions of the federal Bill of Rights against the states-and thus inverted the 
federal system created by the ratifiers of the Constitution and Bill of Rights. Black, a former Ku Klux 
Klansman, also took the lead in writing the twentieth-century Klan's views on church-state relations 
into "constitutional law" in cases such as Everson v. Board of Education and Engel v. Vitale. It is to 
Black that we owe the prominence of Thomas Jefferson's inapt "wall of separation" metaphor in the 
Court's twentieth-century church-state jurisprudence. Black's first purpose on the Court, however, 
was to support Franklin Roosevelt's New Deal, and he joined a new majority that eschewed the 
Supreme Court's traditional (intended) role of checking congressional efforts to legislate beyond its 
enumerated powers.
How the Ku Klux Klan separated church from stateIn deciding the 1940 case of Cantwell v. Connecticut the Court took the 
Free Exercise Clause of the First Amendment ("Congress shall make no 
law... prohibiting the free exercise [of religion]") and turned it upside 
down. The case involved the prosecution of Newton Cantwell, a Jehovah's Witness, for disturbing the peace: he had gone door-to-door on 
behalf of his religion and played an anti-Catholic record in a Catholic 
neighborhood.The purpose of the Free Exercise Clause was to keep the federal government from interfering in religious matters (and laws) in the states. But 
using the Court's handy Incorporation Doctrine and the Fourteenth 
Amendment, the Court ruled that by arresting Cantwell, Connecticut had 
violated his First Amendment rights. The Free Exercise Clause had 
become a vehicle for federal judges' oversight of state policies affecting 
religion!The Court performed a similar feat with the Establishment Clause in Everson V. Board of Education of Ewing Township (1947). Writing for the majority was Justice Hugo Black, once a stridently pro-New Deal senator from 
Alabama who in winning election to the Senate had had the active support 
of his fellow members of the Ku Klux Klan. To its nineteenth-century 
racism, the Klan in the twentieth century had added anti-Catholicism as 
well as anti-Semitism. And the most important issue of the time for antiCatholics was opposing any sort of government support for parochial 
(meaning, in most cases, Catholic) schools.
Black claimed that not only did the First Amendment Establishment 
Clause apply to state and local governments (which it decidedly did not, 
in its original understanding, as some states at the time of ratification had 
established state churches), but that it also erected, in language not found 
in the Constitution, "a wall of separation between church and state."Black reasoned thus:A large proportion of the early settlers of this country came 
here from Europe to escape the bondage of laws which compelled them to support and attend government favored 
churches. The centuries immediately before and contemporaneous with the colonization of America had been filled with 
turmoil, civil strife, and persecutions, generated in large part 
by established sects.These practices of the old world were transplanted to and 
began to thrive in the soil of the new."These practices," Black continued, "became so commonplace as to 
shock the freedom-loving colonials into a feeling of abhorrence." Such 
feelings "found expression in the First Amendment."In support of this claim, Black pointed to the history of revolutionary 
Virginia, which suspended collection of taxes to support the Anglican 
establishment in June 1776 and, at James Madison's instigation, adopted 
Thomas Jefferson's Virginia Statute for Religious Freedom, with its freethinking first section, ten years later. "This Court has previously recognized that the provisions of the First Amendment, in the drafting and 
adoption of which Madison and Jefferson played such leading roles, had 
the same objective and were intended to provide the same protection 
against governmental intrusion on religious liberty as the Virginia statute.""In the words of Thomas Jefferson," he concluded, "the clause against 
establishment of religion by law was intended to erect `a wall of separation between Church and State.'"
As an essay in history, Black's opinion was remarkable for its 
ignorance-which has not stopped it, and especially Jefferson's phrase, 
from being invoked ad nauseum. The First Amendment does not say that 
there shall be no establishments of religion in the states. And in fact, the 
first federal Congress pointedly rejected Madison's proposal to address 
the question of state establishment of religion.The purpose of the First Amendment was to ensure that Congress 
would neither establish a religion for the United States nor interfere in 
the religious policy of individual states-including Massachusetts, Connecticut, and New Hampshire-that retained their colonial religious 
establishments.But what about the "leading role" Justice Black assigned to Thomas Jefferson, author of the "wall of separation" metaphor? As every student 
who passes my History 101 course knows, it 
is a myth. Thomas Jefferson played no role 
in drafting or adopting the Establishment 
Clause. He was neither a member of the first 
Congress that drafted the First Amendment 
and sent it to the states for ratification nor a 
member of the Virginia General Assembly 
that voted to ratify it. And the metaphor of a 
"wall of separation" between church and 
state was coined by President Jefferson in a 
letter written a decade after the First 
Amendment's ratification. Moreover, the letter concerned not the issue of state establishments, but an explanation of why Jefferson did not issue presidential 
declarations of Thanksgiving and fasting, as Presidents Washington and 
Adams had done.And even the broadest reading of the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment cannot be seen as inviting the Supreme Court to supervise the religious policies of states, counties, cities, and school 
boards. Yet the Supreme Court has done this-and done it with the 
approval of dominant liberal opinion.
If Only..."The public welfare demands that constitutional cases must be decided according 
to the terms of the Constitution itself, 
and not according to judges' views of fairness, reasonableness, or justice."Justice Hugo L. Black
Surely the most notorious Court decision building on Everson came in 
the 1962 case of Engel v. Vitale-the School Prayer Case. In this case, the 
Court considered the constitutionality under Everson of a New York policy requiring school districts to have children recite a supposedly innocuous prayer each morning. The prayer said, "Almighty God, we 
acknowledge our dependence upon Thee, and we beg Thy blessings upon 
us, our parents, our teachers, and our country." Jewish, Unitarian, and 
nonbeliever parents of ten students in the New Hyde Park, New York, 
school district challenged this practice as violating the Establishment 
Clause.The Court's resident expert in early American history, former Klansman Hugo Black, wrote for a seven-justice majority. "There can be no 
doubt," he solemnly scribbled, "that New York's state prayer program 
officially establishes the religious beliefs embodied in the Regents' 
prayer." This, apparently, was an Establishment Clause-as-applied-to-thestates-by-the-Incorporation-Doctrine no-no.How could that be? What, exactly, were the "religious beliefs" reflected 
by this anodyne prayer? Apparently that there was a god and that the students were dependent upon it.A traditional Christian might have objected to the prayer on the 
grounds that it did not invoke the name of the Trinity. Black's objection 
was rooted in his peculiar understanding of the First Amendment's history. But even if one assumed (as Black incorrectly did) that Thomas Jefferson's personal views somehow informed the Establishment Clause, 
shouldn't we remember that Jefferson had written, with editorial help 
from John Adams and Benjamin Franklin, that all men were "endowed 
by their creator with certain unalienable rights"? If that reference to 
God-and President Jefferson's references to God in his annual messages to Congress-did not offend his sensibilities, why would he have been 
offended by the New Hyde Park prayer?
Engel v. Vitale's ban on prayer in public schools provoked widespread 
outrage. As well it should. It was essentially a judicial coup de main that 
amended the Constitution without troubling to go through the arduous 
process of amending it the constitutional way (as specified by Article V). 
The amendment process was made difficult in order to protect the states 
from federal innovation. Back then, however, no one assumed that 
Supreme Court justices would simply ignore the Constitution-or that 
Congress would let them get away with it. But the justices do, and Congress does, and thus justice Black's handiwork continues to shape our 
public schools, which now bear the imprint of an anti-Catholic Klansman 
who advanced the cause of left-liberal secularists.The Supreme Court vs. ChristianityHaving spat the constitutional bit out of its mouth, the Court raced further and further from the Constitution on issues of church and state. In 
1971, the Court announced the "Lemon test" for judging state laws 
regarding religion (from Lemon v. Kurtzman, a 1971 case that barred 
Pennsylvania from reimbursing non-public schools-mostly Catholic 
parochial schools-for some of their educational expenses). In order to 
pass constitutional muster, the Court said, the challenged state law must 
have a secular purpose, it must have a primary effect that neither 
advances nor inhibits religion, and it must not foster excessive churchstate entanglement.How the Supreme Court found the Lemon test within the language of 
the Establishment Clause barring Congress from making laws "respecting 
an establishment of religion" is not a mystery: it didn't. And the same 
holds true for finding some alleged justification in the Fourteenth 
Amendment's Due Process Clause for enforcing this test against the states. The Supreme Court was not only unconstitutionally making law, but was 
also making law that the ratifiers of the Bill of Rights and the Fourteenth 
Amendment would have rejected.
Chief Justice Warren Burger said that America needed the Lemon test 
becauseTo have States or communities divide on the issues presented 
by state aid to parochial schools would tend to confuse and 
obscure other issues of great urgency. We have an expanding 
array of vexing issues, local and national, domestic and international, to debate and divide on. It conflicts with our whole 
history and tradition to permit questions of the Religion 
Clauses to assume such importance in our legislatures and in 
our elections that they could divert attention from the myriad 
issues and problems that confront every level of government.With this in mind, "the Constitution's authors sought to protect religious worship from the pervasive power of government."To paraphrase: "Common citizens, as represented in state legislatures, 
are not bright enough to walk and chew gum simultaneously. Fortunately, 
I, Warren Burger, lead a committee of well-connected lawyers established 
for the purpose of determining which issues should be plucked from the 
state legislatures and decided in the way the intellectual elite prefers. 
Whenever anyone points out that the Constitution does not actually 
address such matters, except insofar as the Tenth Amendment says that 
powers not delegated to the federal government are reserved to the states, 
we tell them that the Constitution is actually extremely complicated, and 
that only three years of law school and appointment to a judicial post can 
prepare one to interpret it."As we shall see, Chief Justice Burger applied a mixture of condescension and historical ignorance to a huge array of questions. Like his immediate predecessor, Earl Warren, he understood the Court as a permanent constitutional convention, a nine-man committee to decide issues purposely left to the states.
One response to Engel v. Vitale was Alabama's 1981 statute authorizing a period of silence "for meditation or voluntary prayer." The legislature hoped to make the law palatable to the Court by leaving out the 
state-mandated prayer decreed unconstitutional in Engel.At trial in the federal district court, Judge Brevard Hand correctly 
pointed out that "the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment to the 
United States Constitution does not prohibit the state from establishing 
a religion." He then dismissed the plaintiffs' claims against Alabama's 
statute. The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed him, and the case found 
itself in the Supreme Court.Justice John Paul Stevens called it unsurprising that Hand had been 
reversed. Turning to the Lemon test rather than to the Constitution, 
Stevens found no difficulty in declaring the Alabama law "unconstitu- 
tional"-meaning "inconsistent with Supreme Court precedent." No surprise there. The interesting element of the Court's performance in this 
case, Wallace v. Jaffree (1985), lay in the dissent filed by Justice William 
Rehnquist.What Part of This Didn't Justice Black 
and the Court Understand?"I believe the Court has no power to add to or subtract from the procedures set forth by the founders.... I shall not at any time surrender my 
belief that the document itself should be our guide, not our own concept 
of what is fair, decent, and right."Justice Hugo L. Black
Rehnquist had been appointed to the Supreme Court by President 
Richard Nixon, whose 1968 presidential campaign took aim at the 
Supreme Court. And Rehnquist took dead aim at Hugo Black's Everson 
decision: "It is impossible," Rehnquist wrote, "to build sound constitutional doctrine upon a mistaken understanding of constitutional history, 
but unfortunately the Establishment Clause has been expressly freighted 
with Jefferson's misleading [`wall of separation'] metaphor for nearly forty 
years." After noting that Jefferson had had no role in writing or ratifying 
the Bill of Rights, including the Establishment Clause, Rehnquist concluded that Jefferson "would seem to any detached observer as a less than 
ideal source of contemporary history as to the meaning of the Religion 
Clauses of the First Amendment."Rehnquist went on to describe the First Amendment's course through 
the first federal Congress, noting, among other facts, that James Madison's 
original draft had said, "The civil rights of none shall be abridged on 
account of religious belief or worship, nor shall any national religion be 
established, nor shall the full and equal rights of conscience be in any 
manner, or on any pretext, infringed." When another congressman pro posed changing this to "[N]o religion shall be established by law, nor 
shall the equal rights of conscience be infringed," he was met with the 
objection that this might tend "to abolish religion altogether" in the public sphere, and his proposal was rejected.
There Are "Absolutes"-and There Is 
the Court's Absolute Power"It is my belief that there are 'absolutes' in our Bill of Rights, and that they 
were put there on purpose by men who knew what the words meant and 
meant their prohibitions to be 'absolutes.'"Justice Hugo L. Black
Madison then said that his intention was to provide "that Congress 
should not establish a religion, and enforce the legal observation of it by 
law, nor compel men to worship God in any manner contrary to their conscience." His proposal, he further explained, responded to ratification 
opponents' claims that the new government would establish a national 
church.When a congressman from Connecticut, which still had an established 
church (and would for nearly thirty more years), objected that the proposal might interfere with his state's religion policy, Madison answered 
that it would not. In the wake of this discussion, the House passed the 
current language. It also rejected Madison's proposed amendment giving 
federal courts power to enforce certain individual rights against state 
governments-which is why the Incorporation Doctrine had to be 
invented by twentieth-century federal judges bent on overturning perfectly constitutional state laws in this area.Note that, as Rehnquist pointed out, James Madison did not advocate 
making the Virginia Statute for Religious Freedom the federal government's policy. Had he made such a proposal, congressmen desiring to 
protect their states' established churches against federal intervention 
would have defeated him. His role, rather, was to seek a compromise provision preventing Congress from establishing a federal church. So Judge 
Hand was entirely correct in opining that the Establishment Clause did 
not bar Alabama from establishing a religion: it had been crafted partly 
to prevent Congress from interfering with states' establishments.The issue, of course, in Wallace v. jaffree was not whether Alabama 
should establish a state church. It was whether the people of Alabama should decide their state's religious policies (as per the Constitution) or 
whether federal judges should decide and dictate their own policy preferences to the people of Alabama, despite the Constitution.
The Court's excesses have never been reversed. Everson, Engel, Lemon, 
and Wallace remain what lawyers call "good law"-the precedents courts 
follow in lieu of the Constitution. They cannot plead ignorance in doing 
so, for Rehnquist's dissent is right there in the casebooks law students 
study in law school.On the basis of this line of cases, the Court has struck down science 
curricula the justices disliked [Edwards v. Aguillard (1987)1; banned the 
centuries-old tradition of having invocations at school commencement 
ceremonies [Lee v. Weisman (1992)]; held a city's display of a nativity 
scene unconstitutional, but its display of a menorah constitutional 
[County of Allegheny v. ACLU (1989)]; negated a Texas statute exempting 
religious publications from taxation [Texas Monthly, Inc. v. Bullock 
(1989)]; and struck down a Massachusetts law banning the sale of alcoholic beverages within five hundred feet of a church or school if the 
church or school objected [Larkin v. Grendel's Den (1982)].Need it be said that none of the statutes had anything to do with establishing a national church? The joined decisions about menorahs and nativity scenes seem to demonstrate that the Court majority really just dislikes 
Christianity-any religion is okay, so long as it is not Christianity.The Court also found that the Nebraska legislature's practice of having 
a chaplain say prayers was somehow permissible under Lemon. There 
was, the pompous Chief Justice Warren Burger counseled in Marsh v. 
Chambers (1983), "no real threat," posed by the chaplain, "while this 
Court sits."The arrogance of that line-that the Supreme Court exists to protect 
Nebraskans from decisions their elected officials make about religious 
observances-says all that needs to be said.
 








Chapter Eleven










THE COURT ON PORNOGRAPHY, 
CRIME, AND RACEhe First Amendment guarantees that "Congress shall make no 
law... abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press." But 
legal academics have used this perfectly clear language as an 
excuse to concoct "freedom of expression," another of those elastic judicial concepts that swallow the clear intent of the Constitution.In 1943, at the height of American involvement in World War II, the 
Court said in West Virginia State Board of Education v. Barnette that children could not be compelled to salute the flag and say the Pledge of Allegiance because that would violate their freedom of thought. "If there is 
any fixed star in our constitutional constellation," wrote justice Robert 
H. Jackson, "it is that no official, high or petty, can prescribe what shall 
be orthodox in politics, nationalism, religion, or other matters of opinion 
or force citizens to confess by word or act their faith therein."What historical evidence did he cite in support of his claim, which, 
incidentally, reversed the Court's decision in a virtually identical case, 
Minersville School District v. Gobitis (1940), handed down only three 
years earlier? To ask the question is to answer it: none at all. Nor did he 
feel the lack: Jackson pointed to no specific clause of the First Amendment to justify his ruling and did not even bother with the pretence of 
dragging in the Incorporation Doctrine.Guess what?-40 The First 
Amendment 
protects freedom of 
speech and pressnot freedom of 
armbands, freedom 
of flag burning, or 
freedom of Internet 
pornography.-sW The Fourteenth 
Amendment did not 
ban the Pledge of 
Allegiance or racial 
segregation, but left 
those matters to the 
states.-.' The Court's decision 
in Brown v Board 
of Education 
allowed it to 
assume the moral 
high ground but 
had no basis in the 
Constitution.
The "inarticulate roars" of the CourtIn time, and using similar extra-constitutional logic, the Court would 
hold in a succession of cases that "freedom of expression" was included 
in the First Amendment. It therefore invalidated, in Tinker v. Des Moines 
(1969), a school dress code prohibition of armbands (which were going 
to be worn as a political protest). And it enforced its invented right of 
"freedom of expression" in Texas v. Johnson (1989), also known as the 
Flag-burning Case. In that case, a Communist had stolen an American 
flag, taken it to the site of the 1984 Republican National Convention, and 
burned it.Justice William Brennan, for the majority, conceded, "The First 
Amendment literally forbids the abridgement only of `speech.' " He then 
added, "We have long recognized that its protection does not end at the 
spoken or written word." (Translation: "This Court long ago embarked on 
a career of striking down state statutes regulating not only speech and the 
press, but also other kinds of conduct we deem 'expressive.'") Brennan 
dismissed Texas's argument that its statute-which banned flag burning 
as a breach of the peace and as the destruction of a sacred object-was 
valid. Forty-eight other states had similar statutes.What the Court should have recognized was the simple fact that the 
First Amendment left these issues to the states. But neither Chief Justice 
Rehnquist in his dissent nor any other justice offered the correct, originalist arguments. Rehnquist did not argue that the Incorporation Doctrine 
was wrong or even that burning a flag is not speaking. He instead argued 
that burning a flag was no more expressive than "an inarticulate grunt or 
roar." But if inarticulate roars could be banned, we wouldn't be reading 
many Supreme Court opinions.Louisiana briefly considered responding to the Court's decision in the 
Flag-burning Case by making it legal to beat up flag-burners. Perhaps 
such violence is covered by "freedom of expression." In the end, Louisiana didn't go ahead with the idea: state legislatures often are more 
restrained in their behavior than the Court is.
Freedom of pornographyIf the American people wanted the broadcast media covered under the 
First Amendment clause that protects "freedom of the press," they could 
bring the Constitution into line with modern technology through a constitutional amendment. It is not a self-evident truth that "the press" 
(newspapers, magazines, book publishers) is identical to broadcast media, 
or that the ratifiers intended, in preventing Congress from abridging freedom of "the press," to prevent state legislatures or local governments 
from banning cable companies from broadcasting nudity, sex acts, and 
other indecent material. Nevertheless, in Wilkinson v. Jones (1987) the 
Court protected such "speech" carried by cable companies. Had the First 
Amendment been interpreted as written, cable TV would not be protected by it-and, of course, the amendment would not cover actions by 
state and local governments.Portrait of a JusticeEarl Warren (1891-1974) is second in significance only to John Marshall in the 
annals of chief justices. Like Marshall, Warren paid notably little attention to 
the people's understanding in adopting particular legal provisions, but preferred 
instead to write his own political and social views into "constitutional law." Across a broad range of 
legal subjects-from racial segregation to state legislatures' apportionment, from criminal procedure 
to speech and press regulation, from criminal penalties to church-state relations, from obscenity to 
federalism-Warren left the law markedly different than he had found it. America still suffers as a 
result.
In addition, the Court has delivered itself of a string of decisions about 
pornography, which today-thanks to the invention of photography, 
movies, videos and DVDs, and the Internet-is of a completely different 
nature from anything known in 1791 or 1868. Yet rather than leaving the 
regulation of pornography to the states and local governments, which can 
respond to these changes as the people see fit, the Court has decided that 
it is the sole judge of the legality-and even the morality-of prurient 
material.The starting point in this line of cases was justice Brennan's decision 
in Roth v. United States (1957). The test for obscenity (sexual material the 
Court would allow Congress and the states to regulate) was "whether to 
the average person, applying contemporary community standards, the 
dominant theme of the material taken as a whole appeals to prurient 
interest." Here, in one of Brennan's earliest opinions, we find a characteristic sleight of hand: his words cannot mean what they say. After all, 
if the issue was community standards, why should state and local statutes 
governing obscenity be reviewed by the Committee of Nine Lawyers in 
Washington, D.C.?In Stanley v. Georgia (1969), a Court majority overturned a conviction 
for possession of obscene materials on the grounds that "if the First 
Amendment means anything, it means that a State has no business telling 
a man, sitting alone in his own house, what books he may read or what 
films he may watch."The Court held that "mere private possession of obscene material" 
could not be criminalized. The Court did not say, however, which clause 
of the Constitution protected "private possession of obscene material." 
Surely it was not freedom of speech or freedom of the press or the Due 
Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. So what was it? There was 
nothing in the opinion that one might call "legal reasoning," only a 
naked-if you'll pardon the word-assertion of judicial power.
Soon enough, in Miller v. California (1973), Chief Justice Warren 
Burger announced new guidelines for permissible regulation of such 
material. "Obscene material," Burger wrote for the majority, "is unprotected by the First Amendment," and in order to classify particular films 
as "obscene," the justices instituted regular Court viewings of pornographic material. Works that could be regulated, they said, must "depict 
or describe sexual conduct," which must be "specifically defined by the 
applicable state law." Proscription must "be limited to works which, 
taken as a whole, appeal to the prurient interest in sex, which portray sexual conduct in a patently offensive way, and which, taken as a whole, do 
not have serious literary, artistic, political, or scientific value."Here, as in concocting his three-part Lemon test for violation of the 
Establishment Clause, Burger undertook to spare the mere mortals in the 
legislatures the task of defining these offenses. And who would apply this 
definition? Why, the Nine Great Personages in Washington, D.C., of 
course! A law degree and a judicial appointment make one a great expert 
in "serious literary, artistic, political, or scientific value," so why should 
we have elections anyway?In City of Erie v. Pap's A.M. (2000), which involved a city ordinance 
aimed at establishments featuring nude dancing, the Court majority held 
that "nude dancing of the type at issue here ... falls ... within the outer 
ambit of the First Amendment's protection." In other words, the Court 
said that the First Amendment Speech Clause, through the Fourteenth 
Amendment's Due Process Clause, extended protection (though not 
absolute protection) against state regulation to nude dancers and their 
employers.The Supreme Court has also decided, in a string of cases, that the public 
has a First Amendment right to attend criminal trials. Somehow, in other 
words, the Press Clause extends not only to the right to publish, but to a fancied right to attend. Thus, in Globe Newspaper Company v. Superior Court for the County of Norfolk (1982), Justice 
Brennan-(n)ever on the lookout for the 
interests of crime victims-somehow 
managed to concede that a state might 
have an interest in excluding the press 
and general public from a trial when a 
minor was testifying as the victim of a sex 
crime. Yet, nevertheless, he claimed that 
the First Amendment overruled such an 
interest. But, you say, the First Amendment restricts only Congress. Ah, 
yes, but of course the First Amendment is now incorporated into the 
Fourteenth Amendment's Due Process Clause, so the Massachusetts 
statute protecting minors who are testifying in sex crime cases is void. 
Uh-huh.
The Supremes and criminal lawThe federal courts have been equally assertive in legislating criminal law. 
The most notorious and influential case was Miranda v. Arizona (1966), 
in which a five-justice majority established the rule that a suspect may 
not be questioned without first being informed of his rights. Chief Justice 
Earl Warren noted that a suspect in custody might be expected to feel 
compelled to answer, and implicitly claimed that this was to be avoided. 
Why it would be a bad thing for a suspect to offer up a voluntary confession was unclear then, and it remains unclear now-although, like most 
such precedents, it has proven impossible to undo.Chief Justice William Rehnquist railed against Miranda for his first 
three decades on the Court, then joined in upholding it at the very end of 
his career. As conservative legal commentator Robert Bork once put it, 
long-standing acceptance of a precedent can lead to the rise of so many 
expectations on its basis as to rule out its rejection. Lost both to the lib erals who supported Miranda in the first place and to the conservatives 
who uphold it now is that it marked yet another instance in which the 
federal government, through the courts, unconstitutionally arrogated 
power reserved to the states.
A Book You're Not 
Supposed to ReadDisaster by Decree: The Supreme Court Decisions on Race and the Schools by Lino 
Graglia; Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press, 
1976.
In Gideon v. Wainwright (1963) and Douglas v. California (1963), the 
Court imposed upon the states a new requirement that all indigent criminal defendants be given trial and appellate counsel at the public's 
expense. Supposedly, this requirement flowed from the Due Process 
Clause-which, apparently, no one had understood correctly in its first 
ninety-five years.In Mapp v. Ohio (1961), Justice Tom C. Clark (Ramsey's father and a 
graduate of my law school) held that state courts, like federal courts, must 
exclude the fruit of illegal searches. Thus, the public was to pay the price 
for police errors and/or misbehavior, and criminals were to benefit. Clark 
sanctimoniously noted, "If the Government becomes a lawbreaker, it 
breeds contempt for law" without asking what the government became if 
it let criminals off on technicalities. He also declined to consider what 
the federal judiciary became if it cloaked its own procedural preferences 
in the garb of "constitutional requirements."Cruel and unusual punishmentThe Supreme Court of the 1950s and 1960s often gave the impression that 
it had found a new Constitution only marginally related to the old one. 
The Warren Court of 1954-1969 was the great age of judicial legislation, 
when American constitutional law was remade in the image of the liberal intellectual. The federal courts have been in the business for many 
decades now of remaking the American law of criminal punishment. On 
what basis?In 1992, Justice Sandra Day O'Connor, a Republican appointee who 
had absorbed the Warren Court legacy, wrote in Hudson v. McMillian that the Court needed to apply not the law, but the "evolving standards of 
decency that mark the progress of a maturing society." In other words, if 
the Court's majority opinion differed from the opinion of the elected 
rubes in state governments, then the Court's "standards of decency" had 
simply "evolved" beyond theirs. The Court's "advanced" standards 
needed to be applied, which in the area of criminal law usually meant 
forcing the states to treat criminals more leniently.
This language of "standards of decency" reverberates most often in the 
Court's decisions involving the Eighth Amendment's Cruel and Unusual 
Punishment Clause, especially when the cases touch on capital punishment. (It has also been applied to prison smoking regulations and rules 
depriving prisoners of television or pornographic magazines.)Legal LatinismsStare decisis: The policy of courts to 
stand by precedent and not to disturb a 
settled point.Probably the most outrageous trend in the capital punishment area was 
the determination by Justices William Brennan, Thurgood Marshall, and 
Harry Blackmun in their last decades on the Court that capital punishment always violated the Eighth Amendment ban on cruel and unusual 
punishments. These three based this determination on the idea of evolving standards 
of decency-and, predictably, they did not 
think that Americans at large were nearly so 
advanced down the evolutionary trail as 
they were. Critics pointed out that the Fifth 
and Fourteenth Amendment bans on depriving anyone of "life, liberty, or property 
without due process of law" clearly contemplated capital punishment with due process 
of law, but Brennan, in particular, insisted that he saw a better way. No 
one has ever illustrated the drawbacks of lifetime tenure as well as Brennan, whose entire career represented a constant affront to the average 
American citizen and his elected representatives.
For a brief period in the 1970s, Brennan and company succeeded in 
banning capital punishment altogether.Brown v. Board of Education and its offspringThe main reason the Court has been able to assert its moral superiority 
over us lesser mortals is its decision in Brown v. Board of Education 
(1954). It is a historical fact that the Fourteenth Amendment's Equal Protection Clause was not intended to end segregation in public schools. But 
because the Court ruled that it did, and because the end of segregation is 
seen as a good thing, the Court covered itself in glory for legislating from 
the bench.Intellectuals at large loved the decision. They also knew that such a 
momentous constitutional amendment, which is what the ruling really 
was, could never have been won through the constitutional amendment 
process. How far superior to mere politics, then, was government by judiciary!But how did Brown come to be, and what did it actually accomplish?The Court's first anti-school segregation decision was 1938's Missouri 
ex rel. Gaines v. Canada. The Court ruled that Missouri had to provide 
its black citizens who wanted to attend law school the same opportunities it did its white ones. Arguably, this was simply an application of 
Plessy's "separate but equal" doctrine.The next notable race discrimination case was Shelley v. Kraemer 
(1948). At issue was a restrictive covenant, an agreement among neighbors that none of them would sell his house to a non-white. The legal 
issue, according to the Court, was whether the state court system in Missouri could be involved in enforcing such an agreement.Consider what was really going on in the case: the Court was intervening to consider the validity of a private contract freely entered into among neighbors. Clearly, the Fourteenth Amendment's injunction that no state 
could deny any person the equal protection of the laws was not at issue; 
the law involved was simply the law of private contracts. Such agreements are made all the time, and courts-without looking into the 
motives underlying them-enforce them as a matter of course. So, for 
example, if someone writes in his will that he will leave more of his property to his sons than to his daughters or more to his Baptist grandchildren 
than to his Lutheran ones, courts simply do not care.
In Shelley, however, the Court ruled that if a state enforced a private 
agreement discriminating against non-whites, as the restrictive covenants 
did, it would violate the Fourteenth Amendment. And while no state 
action had been involved in making these covenants, the state courts 
were implicated because they enforced them-which supposedly violated the Fourteenth Amendment.If anyone took this reading of the matter seriously, provisions in wills 
favoring people or institutions by race, sex, religion, ethnic background, 
national origin, or any of a score of other suspect classifications would be 
unenforceable; so would donations to scholarship funds directed to particular sex, racial, ethnic, or religious groups. But the Court majority intended 
its reasoning to be applied solely to restrictive covenants. In short, the justices had decided that they did not like restrictive covenants, and the Equal 
Protection Clause offered them plausible-if legally fatuous-grounds for 
invalidating them. So they did.Desegregation in the South was already under way by 1948, as various 
cities considered integrating police forces and sporting events, cities in 
the upper South started electing blacks to political positions, and the segregation of public transportation was up for debate. At the same time, 
lawyers from the National Association for the Advancement of Colored 
People (NAACP) systematically attacked segregation through the courts.In 1950, the Supreme Court decided in Sweatt v. Painter that Texas 
could not require black law students to attend a different state law school from white students. No matter how many resources were poured into 
the black school, the justices reasoned, it would never be on par, in terms 
of prestige, alumni influence, or history, with the University of Texas 
School of Law in Austin. When it came to legal education, "separate but 
equal" was impossible, and so separation was unconstitutional.
By this point, as the late Georgia governor and U.S. senator Herman 
Talmadge conceded, white politicians in the South could see the handwriting on the wall. Yet they rushed to spend money on upgrading facilities in black primary and secondary schools in an attempt to render them 
truly "separate but equal."Too late. In 1954, with Brown v. Board of Education, the Court served 
up what justice Robert H. Jackson admitted was new law for a new day: 
segregation of the races in public schools would be unconstitutional ever 
after. The Court based its holding on "modern authority," in Warren's 
words, in the field of psychology: specifically, on Kenneth Clark's doll 
experiments.Clark had shown northern and southern black children a white doll 
and a black doll and asked them to identify which one they preferred. 
Many black children from segregated schools chose the white doll. Clark 
testified that he had demonstrated that "a fundamental effect of segregation is basic confusion in individuals and their concepts about themselves," adding that the black kids had "been definitely harmed in the 
development of their personalities."On examination, however, Clark's own data showed that black kids 
from unsegregated environments were more likely to prefer the white 
dolls than those from segregated environments. If the experiment proved 
anything, in other words (which seems doubtful), it was that segregation 
improved children's "concepts about themselves."In any event, it should go without saying that neither the ratifiers of 
the Constitution nor the ratifiers of the Fourteenth Amendment imagined 
that the Supreme Court should analyze doll tests to decide how states must organize their school systems. If the doll tests were relevant to anyone, perhaps they were relevant to teachers, principals, school boards, 
and maybe even city, county, and state legislators. But the Supreme 
Court? Why? Where is the "doll test" in the Constitution?
On the same day the Court issued its opinion in Brown v. Board of 
Education, it decided in Bolling v. Sharpe that the Fifth Amendment's 
Due Process Clause banned segregation of public schools in the District 
of Columbia. This was hardly a tenable reading of the Fifth Amendment, 
which had been drafted chiefly by James Madison (owner of more than 
one hundred slaves) and ratified by the states, a majority of which still 
had legal slavery. Nor was it any more tenable under the Fourteenth 
Amendment. The Congress that wrote the Fourteenth Amendment had 
itself established segregated schools in Washington, D.C.And, of course, the Brown ruling violated the Court's own precedent 
of Plessy v. Ferguson, which said that segregation was constitutional. No amendment had changed the Constitution since. The South, predictably, 
was outraged by Brown. The growing support for desegregation among 
white southerners fell away. Senator Harry Flood Byrd of Virginia-scion 
of one of the South's great seventeenth-century families and never a racial 
bomb-thrower-promised "massive resistance" to desegregation.
Portrait of a JusticeWilliam Brennan (1906-1990) played a leading role in the revolutionary Warren Court of the 1950s and 1960s and then, with the liberal bloc's decline in the 
Burger and early Rehnquist years, became the Court's chief liberal spokesman. 
His approach to judging was captured in his Rule of Five: with five votes, he could do anything. He 
led the majority that wrote the failed Equal Rights Amendment into "constitutional law," banned 
capital punishment for a number of years, forced children to submit to school busing for racial balance, restricted legislatures' discretion in punishing criminals, drove Christianity from the public 
square, and generally made McGovernism the country's ruling legal philosophy. Brennan was to the 
twentieth century what John Marshall was to the nineteenth: the judge who won for a roundly 
rejected political impulse a lasting victory in the courts.
Had segregationists known what was going on behind closed doors at 
the Supreme Court, they would have been even more outraged. One justice had asked his law clerk to research the question of whether the Fourteenth Amendment had been intended to ban racial segregation in 
schools. The clerk, despite his own predilections, had answered no, and 
his research was shared among the justices. Some of the nation's leading 
historians advised the NAACP the same way.But in his opinion for the Court, Chief Justice Earl Warren said that the 
Court could not be bound by the understanding of 1868. In short, the 
Court could not be bound by the Constitution or the clear original understanding of its amendments. Nor did the Court have to show the slightest respect to the laws made by freely elected legislatures in the states. In 
fact, the Court was bound by nothing at all but the personal policy preferences of nine justices.How, exactly, could this judicial ukase be enforced? Did school districts across the country, not just the South (the case was Brown v. Board 
of Education of Topeka, Kansas, after all), have to desegregate overnight? 
The Court said that the parties should come back the next year to talk 
about it.So Brown v. Board of Education was really a multi-part decision. The ruling in 1954 was only Part I. In Brown v. Board of Education (II) (1955), the 
Court said that schools must be desegregated "with all deliberate speed." 
Meanwhile, resistance was building. In the end, some southern localities 
closed their public schools-for years-rather than have black and white students attend school together; whites in some areas, meanwhile, were provided state-supported private schooling while their black neighbors were left with 
few or no educational options. The issue of desegregation now dominated 
southern politics
President Dwight Eisenhower thought that Brown was incorrect, but 
he did not say so in public. He essentially kept his hands off the schools 
issue, although his administration was involved in ongoing litigation concerning other forms of segregation. In 1958, however, when the governor 
of Arkansas sent in the National Guard rather than allow Little Rock's 
Central High School to admit a handful of black students, Eisenhower 
intervened by sending in U.S. Army paratroopers.Here the Supreme Court saw its opening. In an opinion in Cooper v. 
Aaron (1958) signed by all the justices, the Court declared that it was the 
final decider of all questions constitutional. It denied that state governors 
and legislators had anything to say about segregated schools. Calling on 
Chief Justice John Marshall's claim of 
judicial supremacy in Marbury v. Madison (1803), the Court insisted that the 
Supremacy Clause of the Constitution 
made not only the Constitution, but also 
the Court's "constitutional law," "the 
supreme law of the land." State executive 
and legislative attempts to circumvent 
Supreme Court decisions, the Court said, 
were attempts to circumvent the Constitution itself.With the strong wind of the Brown decision at its back, the Court would 
soon undertake a wide-ranging revolution in American law and government. In time, it would become accustomed to deciding any question it 
found interesting, despite the absence of constitutional authority to do so. 
Its critics would have to answer the question, "If you disapprove of the 
Court's reasoning in this case, does that mean you don't accept Brown?"A Book You're Not 
Supposed to ReadA Time to Lose: Representing Kansas in 
Brown v. Board of Education by Paul E. Wilson; Lawrence, KS: University Press of 
Kansas, 1995.
The Court's frustration with Brown's results did not end in 1958. In 
fact, between 1954 and 1964, Brown had almost no effect on Deep South 
enrollment patterns. It was only the Civil Rights Act of 1964, with its 
assignment of limitless federal resources to enforcement of the Fifteenth 
Amendment, and the Voting Rights Act of 1965, that forced southern 
Democrats to appeal for black votes, that ended racial segregation in 
southern education.The civil rights legislation of the 1960sOne issue that had arisen repeatedly during the debate over the Civil Rights 
Act of 1964-which, thanks to Democratic opposition, was the longest 
debate in the history of Congress-concerned the act's constitutionality. 
After all, the Supreme Court had ruled in the Civil Rights Cases of 1883 that 
the nearly identical Civil Rights Act of 1875 was an unconstitutional 
attempt by Congress to regulate matters reserved exclusively to the states.By any fair reading, the Civil Rights Cases were correctly decided. But, 
as justices had made clear in handing down the Brown (I) decision in 
1954, they did not intend to be bound by history-that is, by the people's 
intention when they ratified the Fourteenth Amendment. Instead, the 
Court was in the business of giving America "new law for a new day."By the end of 1964, then, the Court hurriedly decided the cases of 
Heart of Atlanta Motel, Inc. v. United States and Katzenbach v. McClung. 
In the former case, the motel's owner invoked his private property rights. 
He said that the Civil Rights Act of 1964 could not compel him to open 
his motel to blacks, because that would be a violation of his Thirteenth 
Amendment rights; if Congress could tell him how to run his motel, he 
was being forced into a state of involuntary servitude. He also denied that 
renting a hotel room was "interstate commerce," and thus subject to congressional regulation under the Commerce Clause.
The Court, however, held that the Civil Rights Act, which banned 
racial discrimination in public accommodations, was a valid exercise of 
Congress's Commerce Clause powers, even if regulating interstate commerce had not been the intent of the act. In his opinion for the Court, Justice Tom Clark said that Congress's powers under the Commerce Clause 
were "plenary"-i.e., virtually unlimited. This was a momentous curtailment of traditional property rights.In Katzenbach, the Court upheld the Civil Rights Act as applied to 
restaurants, again using the Commerce Clause (specifically citing the 
Wickard v. Filburn decision, which said that wheat grown for private use 
could be regulated as "interstate commerce").The Court's lesson for Congress was that it, like the Court, could do 
whatever it wanted to do under the guise of regulating commerce. Far 
from being the protector of the Constitution, the Supreme Court has been 
a relentless agent of an ever more powerful and unrestrained federal government.
 








Chapter Twelve










THE COURT'S BRAVE NEW WORLD: 
FROM AFFIRMATIVE ACTION 
TO SODOMYn 1968, the Court decided that "all deliberate speed" was not desegregating the public schools quite fast enough for its liking. In Green 
v. County School Board of New Kent County (1968), the Court ruled 
that public schools must achieve racial balance immediately. Many 
school districts had offered parents a choice of two schools for their children, and most parents had preferred to send their children to schools 
near their homes, with the result being that most black parents sent their 
children to predominantly black schools and most white parents sent 
their children to predominantly white schools. Not getting the results it 
wanted, the Court ruled that voluntary desegregation plans that failed to 
create substantially integrated schools were unacceptable.So the Court set new standards. Where Brown v. Board of Education 
had prohibited assigning students to schools on the basis of their race, 
the Court now insisted on it. So in "implementing" Brown the Court actually inverted it, and demanded that school administrators and judges 
racially divide students to integrate the schools. Since neighborhoods, 
and thus neighborhood schools, tended to be racially identifiable, busing 
students-even the youngest students-among neighborhoods became a 
"constitutional" requirement.Thus, a racialist assumption-that black students would never receive 
an equal education so long as they went to school only with other black children-yielded racialist assignment. In 
1973's Keyes v. School District No. 1, Denver, 
Colorado, the same set of postulates was 
applied by the Court to public schools in 
Denver, Colorado-a jurisdiction that had 
never had formal racial segregation. Soon, 
Boston, Massachusetts, was rent by turmoil 
over forced busing of students. Busing 
became a national political issue in many 
localities where schools had never been segregated, as parents were outraged that their 
children were being bused across town in a judicially mandated social 
experiment.
Guess what?-40 In order to forcibly 
integrate the 
public schools, the 
Supreme Court 
effectively 
overturned its 
landmark antisegregation ruling 
in Brown v Board 
of Education.-sW The Fourteenth 
Amendment did 
not ban sex 
discrimination.-40 The Bill of Rights, 
according to the 
Supreme Court, 
contains 
"emanations from 
penumbras" that 
guarantee a right 
to contraception 
and abortion.
In Boston, opposition to busing plans was led by a black mother. 
Across the country, people of all races came to agree that they did not 
want six-year-olds to ride buses for as much as three hours a day as part 
of the Supreme Court's "constitutional" "remedy." Wealthy liberals (like 
Senator Ted Kennedy of Massachusetts) became notorious for their 
hypocrisy in supporting the Court in this line of cases while sending their 
own children to private schools. One federal judge responsible for an 
enormous busing plan explained his own apparent hypocrisy in sending 
his children to private schools by saying, "When I'm on the bench, I'm a 
judge, and when I'm at home, I'm a father."Here we see why formulation of policy was left by the Founding 
Fathers mainly to the state governments (and also why, within the federal government, Congress, not the Court, is supposed to be the legislative branch). Under no circumstances would this idiocy have been 
spawned by the republican system of elections. Yet, as since John Marshall's day, life tenure (and wealth) insulated federal judges. They could 
not be held to account by the electorate, nor did they necessarily feel the 
full effects of their own actions.Legal LatinismsWrit of certiorari: A writ issued from a 
superior to an inferior court, requesting a 
certified record of a case. The Supreme 
Court uses writs of certiorari to choose 
its cases.
Many cities' court-enforced integration plans have been allowed to 
lapse in recent years, but this line of precedents has not been overruledand many Americans still suffer under it. Perhaps its extreme manifestation came in St. Louis, where a federal judge ordered an enormous 
statewide tax increase to finance construction of a palatial high school 
intended to spur white enrollment in an essentially black school. King 
George III's authority in America never rivaled that of a contemporary 
federal judge.Affirmative actionLyndon Johnson, who signed the Civil Rights Act of 1964, also instituted 
the policy of "affirmative action"-a practice that has come to be called 
"benign race discrimination." "Affirmative action" first meant finding 
blacks who might not have applied to a school or for a job because of low 
expectations rather than lack of ability. But when it did not appear that 
segregation had created an enormous cohort of black street sweepers who 
were really frustrated potential brain surgeons, the definition of affirmative action began to mutate.At Least He's Honest"At the constitutional level where we 
work, 90 percent of any decision is emotional. The rational part of us supplies the 
reasons for supporting our predilections."Justice William 0. DouglasThe Supreme Court got into the affirmative action business in Griggs v. 
Duke Power Co. (1971). The Court ruled that 
the Duke Power Company, in requiring a 
high school diploma and high aptitude test 
scores for employment and promotion, was 
being racially discriminatory, because proportionately fewer blacks did well on these 
tests or had diplomas. The Court decided 
that company employment standards nationwide had to be "reasonably related" to the 
relevant jobs; companies could not rely on 
broad educational qualifications in making hiring decisions. Having no intent to discriminate was no defense; it was 
the balance of racial statistics that mattered. Soon enough, businesses 
throughout the country responded by hiring and promoting staff on a 
racial basis. The non-discrimination policy enacted by Congress in 1964 
had become, in the hands of lawyers and federal judges, a virtual mandate 
to discriminate.
Quotas also appealed to university administrators as convenient mechanisms for demonstrating that they too were on board the Supreme 
Court's Civil Rights Express. A flash point in what would become the 
extended controversy over quotas, goals, timetables, and other measures 
of "benign" discrimination (discrimination against whites and, later, 
against men) was the 1978 decision in University of California Board of 
Regents v. Bakke.Bakke by the Numbers
When Allen Bakke first applied to the University of California Medical School in 1973, the school reserved 16 percent of its admissions for 
minorities. Bakke was denied admission even though his qualifications 
were better than those of all the minority candidates admitted under the 
16 percent quota. In fact, as the Supreme Court conceded (in a footnote), 
the qualifications of the minority students were pitifully poor.Would you want your heart surgery performed by a doctor who had 
scored in the bottom third on the Medical College Admission Test 
(MCAT)? Note that the MCAT percentiles listed in the box at left are average scores of the admittees, which means that some of them scored lower 
than the bottom third or even below the eighteenth percentile on portions 
of the MCAT.The Court's decision was nonsensical: four justices would have upheld 
the University of California's program as consistent with the Equal Protection Clause, four would have torpedoed it completely, and the ninthJustice Lewis Powell, who would make a career of decisions like 
this-voted to force the school to admit Bakke while also stating that 
schools could give particular races and ethnic groups special privileges 
to augment "educational diversity." These privileges, however, had to be 
"on the margins." A forthright quota could not be used.Of course, given the enormous disparity between the qualifications of 
most students admitted to the school and those of the preferred minority 
applicants, marginal "affirmative action" would have admitted few, if 
any, specially privileged minority students at all.In Hopwood v. Texas (1996), a case similar to Bakke, a circuit court of 
appeals struck down the race-based admissions policy of the University 
of Texas School of Law. The court stated that the University of Texas 
could not use racial discrimination now "to make up for past racial 
wrongs."The Supreme Court let that case stand, but then in Gratz v. Bollinger 
(2003), it ruled that while the University of Michigan could no longer give blanket preference to members of certain preferred minority groups, 
its law school could discriminate in the way outlined by Justice Powell 
in Bakke-which presumably made Hopwood a dead letter.
Way back in the 1950s, with Brown, the Court had announced non-discrimination as "new law for a new day." But when the legislators on the 
bench didn't like the results of non-discrimination, they told state governments that it was acceptable to discriminate against academically 
high-achieving racial groups (usually Asians and non-Hispanic whites) 
in favor of underachievers (blacks, Hispanics, Eskimos, Aleuts, and Indians). Some kinds of race discrimination were better than others.Do you think the ratifiers would agree? To ask the question is to answer 
it.Sex discrimination and the Fourteenth AmendmentThe Fourteenth Amendment has nothing at all to say about sex discrimination, and while it was a matter of public debate at the time (the late 
1860s and the 1870s) whether women should be granted the rights guaranteed to black men, Congress omitted language from the Fifteenth 
Amendment guaranteeing women the right to vote. A hundred years later, 
however, the Court was ready to break new legislative ground.So in the 1973 case of Frontiero v. Richardson, Justice William Brennan offered up an opinion effectively declaring sex discrimination on par 
with race discrimination. He won three other justices' votes for that opinion, falling one short of a majority. If he had won, the Court would have 
(yet again and unconstitutionally) passed into law a constitutional 
amendment. As it was, the public was already discussing an Equal Rights 
Amendment to the Constitution, which Congress had sent to the states 
for their ratification. If Brennan's opinion had been the majority opinion, 
it would have rendered the public debate pointless. And in the end, it would have overturned the result of the 
states' consideration of the amendmentwhich was to reject it.
If Justice Brennan did not win that one, 
he did win in 1976s Craig v. Boren, in 
which the Court invalidated a provision of 
Oklahoma law setting the male drinking age 
at twenty-one and the female drinking age at 
eighteen. Justice Brennan sounded every bit 
the 1970s feminist in his "reasoning." He 
used the word "gender" instead of "sex" and 
invoked the (constitutional?) idea that legislators should seek "more `germane' bases of classification." He then 
turned to evidence showing that boys eighteen to twenty were more than 
eleven times as likely as those twenty-one or older to be arrested for 
"alcohol-related driving offenses," which he described as an "unpersuasive" justification for such "gender" discrimination.How wonderful for the people of Oklahoma, then, that justice Brennan 
was going to substitute his elevated expertise for that of the local, elected 
legislators who had determined that a 1,111 percent higher likelihood of 
alcohol-related offenses was substantial! Need it be added that Brennan's 
diktat about men and equal protection had no relationship whatsoever to 
the Supreme Court's own previous definition of the Equal Protection 
Clause's purpose: protecting recently freed slaves from their masters?Having invented the idea that sexual classifications fall under the Equal 
Protection Clause, the Court has since felt itself entitled to strike down various other state statutes distinguishing males from females. In 1982's Mississippi University for Women v. Hogan the Court struck down the school's 
"sexist" admissions policies. The Court ruled that it caused impermissible 
hardship to a male applicant who lived in Columbus, Mississippi (where the school is located), to have to travel to 
Jackson or Hattiesburg, where he could 
find state-supported nursing schools that 
allowed men to enroll.
Translation: We Can Do 
Whatever We Want"We who have the final word can speak 
softly or angrily. We can seek to challenge 
and annoy, as we need not stay docile and 
quiet."Justice William 0. Douglas
Notoriously, in United States v. Virginia (1996), the Court disallowed the allmale admissions policy of the Virginia 
Military Institute (VMI). The hallowed 
Virginia school objected that admitting 
women would change the school's purpose, lower the physical fitness 
standards the school required, and force it to segregate its traditionally 
shared housing (essentially a barracks). The Court swept these concerns 
aside as insignificant. In short, perhaps the people of Virginia had 
believed for a century and a half that the all-male education offered by 
VMI was worth public support, but a majority of the Supreme Court came 
to a different legislative conclusion. The Court used the fig leaf of the 
Equal Protection Clause as justification to substitute its judgment for the 
Virginia General Assembly's.The Supreme Court and "privacy"Nothing since Brown and its "civil rights" interventions has won the 
Court more plaudits from the liberal intelligentsia than inventing and 
developing a "right to privacy." Under this rubric, found nowhere in the 
Constitution-but allegedly hiding there-the courts have created a right 
to marital contraception, a generalized right to contraception, a right to 
abortion, and a right to homosexual sodomy; they have even created a 
right not to have a state constitutional provision banning officials from 
conferring special privileges upon homosexuals. (No, that is not a typo.)The Court first turned to this matter in Griswold v. Connecticut (1965). 
In that case, a physician had been convicted of violating Connecticut's ban on prescribing or using contraceptives. He appealed, claiming that 
the Connecticut law violated the Fourteenth Amendment's Due Process 
Clause. As the Connecticut law had nothing to do with protecting the 
rights of freed slaves (which was what the Fourteenth Amendment covered), it was only through the magic of the Supreme Court that this logic 
could be even remotely tenable.
A Book You're Not 
Supposed to ReadThe Southern Essays of Richard Weaver by 
Richard Weaver (particularly the essay "Life 
without Discrimination"); Indianapolis: Liberty Press, 1987.
Justice William 0. Douglas should have produced guffaws when, for 
the majority, he announced, "We do not sit as a super-legislature to determine the wisdom, need, and propriety of laws that touch economic problems, business affairs, or social conditions." 
Exceptions, though, inevitably had to be 
made. As Justice Douglas noted, "This law, 
however, operates directly on an intimate 
relation of husband and wife." It was not 
clear why the Supreme Court was the proper 
institution to pass upon the desirability of 
state laws operating "directly on an intimate 
relation of husband and wife." That role for 
the Court never came up during the drafting 
and ratification of the Constitution.But according to the Court, the Due 
Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment enshrined a right for married couples 
to use condoms. Perhaps the Constitution 
did not actually say so, but "the specific guarantees in the Bill of Rights 
[as purportedly made applicable against the states by the Due Process 
Clause] have penumbras, formed by emanations from those guarantees 
that help give them life and substance. Various guarantees create zones 
of privacy."Even among academics devoted to the existence of a "right" to contraception, Douglas's "reasoning" here is considered entirely laughable. Mere mention of the "emanations of penumbras" will draw titters in most 
legal forums. But, as in the sex discrimination cases, lack of justification 
has not led to the unraveling of the precedent. Far from it: the Court has 
built upon Griswold and continues to do so.
Isn't This a Job for 
Legislatures?"We must never lose sight of the fact that 
the law has a moral foundation, and we 
must never fail to ask ourselves not only 
what the law is, but what the law should 
be."Justice Anthony Kennedy
In Eisenstadt v. Baird (1972), the Court extended the newly minted 
contraception right to unmarried couples. Next, in 1973, it decided that 
there exists a "constitutional" right to procure an abortion. Purchase of 
this service, and its provision by strangers, is a component of "privacy," 
which is a general right enforceable by the federal courts against the 
states.With its decision to that effect in Roe v. Wade, the Court undid the 
abortion regulations of all fifty states. Academics and liberal intellectuals helped sell this idea to the public by taking up the word fetus (Latin 
for "very young one") to refer to unborn 
babies (eventually defined by the Court's 
precedents as "babies whose heads have not 
cleared the birth canal completely"). As the 
Fourteenth Amendment was self-evidently 
about protecting the civil rights-including 
the right to life-of former slaves, it took the 
"reasoning" of a Supreme Court justice to 
turn it around and use it to establish a right 
to end the lives of unborn children.It seemed likely to many observers that 
the Court was going to backtrack on its controversial Roe decision when 
it undertook to decide 1992's Planned Parenthood v. Casey. A series of 
appointments to the Court by presidents forthrightly opposed to Roeand opposed to "judicial activism" generally-gave the Court an opportunity to recant.But it was not to be. The Court not only failed to overturn Roe, but it 
also delivered a breathtakingly silly statement of constitutional philoso phy: where the Court "calls the contending sides of a national controversy to end their national division by accepting a common mandate 
rooted in the Constitution," its decision has a special "dimension." The 
Court claimed to have done this only twice: in Brown and in Roe. This 
conveniently overlooked the Court's pro-slavery Dred Scott decision, 
which settled-until it was reversed by an enormous war and the Thirteenth, Fourteenth, Fifteenth Amendments-a "national controversy" by 
repealing the Missouri Compromise and declaring that blacks could not 
be citizens.
Legal LatinismsDe jure: Fully compliant with the law. It's 
often, in common parlance, contrasted 
with de facto, meaning existing in fact, 
but not necessarily in law.
The Court ignored this unfortunate history and said it could not 
reverse its decision of a controversial case. "So to overrule under fire in 
the absence of the most compelling reason to reexamine a watershed 
decision would subvert the Court's legitimacy beyond any serious question."Justice Sandra Day O'Connor added that Roe had been "in conformance with the Constitution." What part of the Constitution? Why, the 
Due Process Clause, of course. The one that guaranteed the recently freed 
slaves that they would not be punished without a hearing, the right to 
counsel, the right to call witnesses, the right to cross-examine, and so on.You can be forgiven for asking, in Professor Lino Graglia's words, 
whether the right to an abortion was included in the word "due" or in the 
word "process."O'Connor opined that the Court was the chief expositor of America's 
constitutional "ideals," and that continued enforcement of unconstitutional "constitutional" decisions such as Roe was a necessary attribute of 
the "rule of law." Of course, it really is just the opposite. The Court has 
overturned the right of the people of the states to govern themselves, overturned the Tenth Amendment, and thus overturned the Constitution-and 
called it the "rule of law."One of O'Connor's fellows in this exercise, justice Anthony Kennedy, 
delivered himself of this pearl: "At the heart of liberty is the right to define one's own concept of existence, of 
meaning, of the universe, and of the mystery of human life." These are among the 
many rights not enumerated in the Constitution, and best left, as the Constitution 
leaves them, to the determination of the 
people and the states, not to an unaccountable Supreme Court majority of five 
justices.
Not stopping at contraception and abortion, the Court used the Griswold precedent to establish a right to engage in 
homosexual sodomy. In Bowers v. Hardwick (1986), the Court ruled with four dissents (including the "evolving standards 
of decency" trio of Brennan, Thurgood Marshall, and Roe author Harry 
Blackmun) that there was no fundamental right to engage in homosexual 
sodomy. In light of the long-standing tradition in the English-speaking 
world of punishing such sodomy severely (including by castration, burning at the stake, and-if Thomas Jefferson had had his way-boring holes 
in noses), the Court could hardly have ruled to the contrary. Except that 
four justices would have, and one of the majority justices, Lewis Powell, 
later said that he regretted his vote.Of course, the American people have never amended the Constitution 
to create a right to homosexual sodomy. But the Supreme Court soon did 
that for them. The Court simply decided there should be such a right, 
and, as usual, trotted out the Fourteenth Amendment's Due Process 
Clause to overturn state laws, its own previous ruling (which somehow 
it couldn't do with Roe), and the tradition of English common law.Romer v. Evans (1996) involved a state constitutional amendment. 
Approved by the people of Colorado, the amendment stated: "Neither the state of Colorado, through any of its branches or departments, nor any of 
its agencies, political subdivisions, municipalities or school districts, 
shall enact, adopt or enforce any statute, regulation, ordinance or policy 
whereby homosexual, lesbian or bisexual orientation, conduct, practices 
or relationships shall constitute or otherwise be the basis of, or entitle any 
person or class of persons to have or claim any minority status, quota 
preferences, protected status or claim of discrimination. This Section of 
the Constitution shall be in all respects self-executing." In other words, 
self-identified homosexuals were to be denied any special minority privileges.
Books You're Not 
Supposed to ReadThe New Color Line: How Quotas and Privilege Destroy Democracy by Paul Craig 
Roberts and Lawrence M. Stratton; Washington, DC: Regnery, 1997.Civil Rights: Rhetoric or Reality? by Thomas 
Sowell; New York: William Morrow, 1984.Preferential Policies: An International Perspective by Thomas Sowell; New York: 
William Morrow, 1990.
No Wonder It's Not in 
the Constitution!"We deal with a right of privacy older 
than the Bill of Rights-older than our 
political parties, older than our school 
system."Justice William 0. Douglas, 
in Griswold v. Connecticut 
(1965)The Supreme Court, however, overturned the right of the people of 
Colorado to govern themselves, and said that of course the Constitution 
meant that state officials must be left free to 
provide special privileges for self-identified 
homosexuals. The Equal Protection Clause 
of the Fourteenth Amendment meant, 
according to Justice Anthony Kennedy, that 
homosexuals could not be denied the opportunity to seek special privileges from state 
and local governments. Kennedy said that 
this policy of disallowing special privileges 
could only be explained by "animus toward 
the class that it affects." Here, the Court 
majority ruled invalid the commonly held 
position that homosexuality is about conduct, not identity. Kennedy silently rejected 
the idea-clearly reflected in the Colorado 
amendment-that engaging in sodomy was at issue, not the disposition 
to do so. The Court, in other words, once again used the Fourteenth 
Amendment grab-bag as a source of limitless judicial power to disallow 
state policies with which it disagreed.
As Justice Antonin Scalia noted in dissent, what the Court had done 
was to say "that opposition to homosexuality is as reprehensible as racial 
or religious bias." Here, as in Roe, the Court simply preempted a legitimate political debate; as in virtually every instance since 1937, it took the 
side of the leftward-most of the contending forces against the traditional 
(and coincidentally the Christian) position.Is this republican government?Predictably, the Court followed its 
Romer thinking in Lawrence v. Texas 
(2003), which declared a constitutional 
right to homosexual sodomy. The intellectual class, in support of the Court's 
Lawrence legislation (and let us call it 
"legislation," because it was absolutely 
not founded on any constitutional provision or on any traditional conception of 
the role of judges and the function of a written federal constitution), 
hooted down critics who asked why, if private homosexual sodomy was 
constitutionally protected, bestiality, incest, and group sex were not. 
Intellectuals hooted down people who asked that question, but they did 
not answer the question.The Supreme Court's electoral interventionsThe First Amendment Speech and Press Clauses, as John Marshall noted 
in Barron v. Baltimore (1833), originally operated as limitations on the 
federal government. Their chief purpose, Republicans noted in the dispute over the Alien and Sedition Acts of 1798, was to guarantee that there 
could be robust political debate.In recent years, however, the Court has moved in the opposite direction, so that the First Amendment works as a wedge, allowing pornogra phers to operate their establishments in spite of the preferences of local 
citizens as reflected by the policies of state and local governments.
A Book You're Not 
Supposed to ReadMen in Black: How the Supreme Court Is 
Destroying America by Mark Levin; Washington, DC: Regnery, 2005.
At the same time, however, under the guise of "campaign finance 
reform," Congress is allowed by the Supreme Court to restrict political 
discussion in a way that mirrors the Sedition Act in its benefits to incumbents. Among other things, the legislation upheld by the Court in 
McConnell v. Federal Election Commission (2003) bans issue advertising 
in favor of particular candidates within sixty days of an election. Such 
advertising is one of the most powerful tools for overcoming incumbents' 
advantage in personal familiarity to voters (what journalists call "name 
ID"), and it is impossible to see how restricting political speech can possibly be constitutional. Congress's Bipartisan Campaign Act of 2002 
(known as the McCain-Feingold Bill) restricted political advertising-that 
is, the press-in various other ways as well.What originally had been a guarantee that Congress would not regulate political speech or the political press thus has come to be treated by 
the Supreme Court as allowing exactly that kind of regulation, on the grounds that money-the expenditure of which is what is restricted-is 
property, not speech. And some have argued that Congress should be 
allowed greater latitude in regulating political expenditures (in order, 
they say, to limit the power of special interests).
Portrait of a JusticeWilliam Rehnquist (1924-2005) was for years the leading proponent of originalist jurisprudence on the twentieth-century Supreme Court. By the end of his 
tenure, however, he was prone to bow before Court precedent, such as in 
upholding the Miranda decision, even though he had long noted that originalism mandated the 
opposite result. He presided at the impeachment trial of Bill Clinton before the Senate, generally to 
positive evaluations, and he did carry the day in favor of federalism and against a broad (even 
untethered) reading of Congress's Commerce Clause power. Resounding originalist opinions such as 
his dissent in Wallace v. Jaffree (1985) (wherein he exploded the Court's modern church-state 
jurisprudence) were his most lasting contribution.
This formulation is absurd, of course. The actual effect of the law is 
not only to protect incumbent politicians but also to protect the incumbent media (and the incumbent corporations that own them), who are free 
to editorialize, while restricting the right of people who want to purchase 
air time or advertising space in print.More egregious than the Court's unfounded decisions in restricting 
political speech (McConnell being only the most important) was its performance in Bush v. Gore (2000).In the 2000 presidential election, Florida's Division of Elections first 
announced that Governor George Bush of Texas had defeated Vice President Albert Gore, Jr. As the margin was small-fewer than two thousand 
votes-Florida law required a machine recount. The recount yielded a 
smaller margin, but the same result: Bush 
would receive Florida's electoral votes.When the flurry of suits that demanded 
recounts or the stoppage of recounts reached 
the Supreme Court, it responded in a "per 
curiam" opinion-one, that is, from the 
whole Court. The Court solemnly intoned, 
"None are more conscious of the vital limits 
on judicial authority than are the members 
of this Court." That was a laugh, but the 
problem in Florida was that its own state 
supreme court was interpreting the state 
constitution as the U.S. Supreme Court usually interprets the federal Constitution-however it pleased, openly dis regarding the laws governing elections in Florida to allow perpetual 
recounts until the preferred outcome (a Gore victory) could be arranged.
Legal Logic and 
Affirmative ActionDoes anyone outside the Supreme Court 
really think the ratifiers of the Constitution imagined the Court setting employment policies for the nation's businesses?
The proper remedy to the Florida Supreme Court's overreaching lay 
with the Florida legislature. The legislature was fully empowered by Article II, Section 1 of the federal Constitution to establish the manner of the 
Florida electors' allocation between Bush and Gore. The popular votes 
had been counted and recounted and recounted in selected counties, 
always yielding the same result, and the secretary of state, under the state 
constitution, had a deadline for certifying the vote tallies. If counties 
failed to submit their votes by the deadline, she was constitutionally 
empowered to ignore them. Thus, however one cut it, the issue was 
clearly decided. Bush was the electoral choice of the state of Florida, 
under the electoral laws of the state, and the Florida legislature was the 
constitutional authority-not the Florida Supreme Court-to decide 
which electors were going to Washington.Nevertheless, the Supreme Court couldn't restrain itself from commenting on Florida's electoral processes, implicitly disapproving the 
state's method of counting votes, and expressing the Court's concern that 
"equal protection" be respected in any recount process (though, as 
punch-card ballots are not racially or sexually identifiable, it was not 
clear what "equal protection" could amount to beyond an anodyne counsel of "play fair"). Only Chief Justice Rehnquist (with two associates) 
pointed out that the Constitution gives state legislatures the power to 
assign the states' electoral votes.Surprisingly, while his reasoning did not attract a majority, Rehnquist's 
vote carried the day. George Bush received Florida's electoral votes, as 
the Florida legislature intended. The fiasco of the Supreme Court intervening to settle this dispute could only have been made worse by its 
doing what the dissenters wanted: returning the matter to a nakedly partisan, Democrat-dominated state supreme court. The Court declined to do so by a margin of one vote. That was a one-vote majority in favor of 
the Constitution over the judicial clique that thinks the law is what it says 
it is.
 







CONCLUSIONhat, then, can be done to right two centuries' nearly uninterrupted misapplication of the federal Constitution? How 
might the promises made by Federalists such as James Wilson and Edmund Randolph in the ratification process of 1787-1788 be 
made to bear fruit? Specifically, how can we stop the Supreme Court from 
acting as the supreme legislator of the United States?The prospects are dim. One serious obstacle to reform is the Seventeenth Amendment, which substituted popular election of senators for 
their original election by state legislatures. This stripped the state governments of their sole significant check on federal overreaching. Also, the 
modern case method of instructing prospective lawyers in constitutional 
law, which consists simply of discussing judicial opinions about the Constitution, makes it highly unlikely that American attorneys as a class will 
ever come to understand that the account of the Constitution judges peddle has little connection to the ratifiers' understanding. Lawyers, then, 
will not soon know that the Constitution of the judges is not the one the 
people voted for.The intellectual class, by and large, has no problem with this. The 
party line is that Supreme Court rulings are raw exercises of power 
whether judges purport to be bound by the original understanding or not, so why not admit it? This idea is promoted in academia, the liberal 
media, and elite opinion generally. These circles treat references to originalist understandings of the Constitution as either disingenuous or irrelevant. The New York Times, the Washington Post, and, nowadays, most 
people assess Supreme Court rulings according to their policy preferences, along the lines of "I dislike this policy, so it's 'unconstitutional'" 
(or the reverse).
What constitutional law is supposed to be is the application of the 
Constitution's plain meaning to bind judges, presidents, and congressesall wielders of federal power. If we want to return to Thomas Jefferson's 
vision of the Republic, if we want the Constitution enforced in the way 
it was explained to the people at the time of its ratification, then we have 
to overcome the received wisdom about what constitutional law is. I hope 
The Politically Incorrect GuideTM to the Constitution is one small step in 
that direction.There are other steps we can take as well. The main problem with the 
Supreme Court's rulings over the last seventy years is that they have 
allowed Congress to do too much and state governments to do too little. 
In other words, the Supreme Court has ignored the Constitution's division of powers between the state and federal governments. The solution, 
then, is to provide the states with a new check on federal interference and 
overreaching.One idea is to create a constitutional council of the fifty states. The 
council could consist either of the fifty state chief justices or of fifty members elected to represent the states. The council would be given power to 
review the federal courts' constitutional decisions. This council could 
help restore the republican federal government of very limited powers we 
started off with and undo the unrepublican judgeocracy of limitless powers we have now.
When the Philadelphia Convention of 1787 adjourned from writing the 
Constitution, a woman was waiting at the door. She asked delegate Benjamin Franklin what they had wrought, and he said a constitution for "a 
republic, if you can keep it." To the extent that we have not kept the Constitution that Franklin helped to write, it is time we took it back.
 







THE ARTICLES OF CONFEDERATIONAgreed to by Congress November 
15, 1777; ratified and in force, March 
1, 1781.PreambleTo all to whom these Presents 
shall come, we the undersigned Delegates of the States affixed to our 
Names send greeting.Articles of Confederation and perpetual Union between the States of 
New Hampshire, Massachusetts bay, 
Rhode Island and Providence Plantations, Connecticut, New York, New 
Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, South 
Carolina and Georgia.Article I. The Stile of this Confederacy shall be "The United States of 
America."Article II. Each state retains its 
sovereignty, freedom, and independence, and every power, jurisdiction, 
and right, which is not by this Confederation expressly delegated to the 
United States, in Congress assembled.Article III. The said States hereby 
severally enter into a firm league of 
friendship with each other, for their 
common defense, the security of their 
liberties, and their mutual and general 
welfare, binding themselves to assist 
each other, against all force offered to, 
or attacks made upon them, or any of 
them, on account of religion, sovereignty, trade, or any other pretense 
whatever.Article IV. The better to secure 
and perpetuate mutual friendship and 
intercourse among the people of the 
different States in this Union, the free 
inhabitants of each of these States, 
paupers, vagabonds, and fugitivesfrom justice excepted, shall be entitled 
to all privileges and immunities of 
free citizens in the several States; and 
the people of each State shall free 
ingress and regress to and from any 
other State, and shall enjoy therein all 
the privileges of trade and commerce, 
subject to the same duties, impositions, and restrictions as the inhabitants thereof respectively, provided 
that such restrictions shall not extend 
so far as to prevent the removal of 
property imported into any State, to 
any other State, of which the owner is 
an inhabitant; provided also that no 
imposition, duties or restriction shall 
be laid by any State, on the property of 
the United States, or either of them.If any person guilty of, or charged 
with, treason, felony, or other high 
misdemeanor in any State, shall flee 
from justice, and be found in any of 
the United States, he shall, upon 
demand of the Governor or executive 
power of the State from which he fled, 
be delivered up and removed to the 
State having jurisdiction of his 
offense.Full faith and credit shall be given 
in each of these States to the records, 
acts, and judicial proceedings of the 
courts and magistrates of every other 
State.Article V. For the most convenient 
management of the general interests of 
the United States, delegates shall be 
annually appointed in such manner as 
the legislatures of each State shall 
direct, to meet in Congress on the first 
Monday in November, in every year, 
with a power reserved to each State to 
recall its delegates, or any of them, at 
any time within the year, and to send 
others in their stead for the remainder 
of the year.No State shall be represented in 
Congress by less than two, nor more 
than seven members; and no person 
shall be capable of being a delegate for 
more than three years in any term of 
six years; nor shall any person, being 
a delegate, be capable of holding any 
office under the United States, for 
which he, or another for his benefit, 
receives any salary, fees or emolument 
of any kind.Each State shall maintain its own 
delegates in a meeting of the States, 
and while they act as members of the 
committee of the States.In determining questions in the 
United States in Congress assembled, 
each State shall have one vote.Freedom of speech and debate in 
Congress shall not be impeached or 
questioned in any court or place out of 
Congress, and the members of Congress shall be protected in their persons from arrests or imprisonments, 
during the time of their going to and 
from, and attendance on Congress, 
except for treason, felony, or breach of 
the peace.Article VI. No State, without the 
consent of the United States in Congress assembled, shall send any 
embassy to, or receive any embassy 
from, or enter into any conference, 
agreement, alliance or treaty with any 
King, Prince or State; nor shall any 
person holding any office of profit or 
trust under the United States, or any 
of them, accept any present, emolument, office or title of any kind whatever from any King, Prince or foreign 
State; nor shall the United States in 
Congress assembled, or any of them, 
grant any title of nobility.No two or more States shall enter 
into any treaty, confederation or 
alliance whatever between them, without the consent of the United 
States in Congress assembled, specifying accurately the purposes for which 
the same is to be entered into, and 
how long it shall continue.
No State shall lay any imposts or 
duties, which may interfere with any 
stipulations in treaties, entered into by 
the United States in Congress assembled, with any King, Prince or State, 
in pursuance of any treaties already 
proposed by Congress, to the courts of 
France and Spain.No vessel of war shall be kept up 
in time of peace by any State, except 
such number only, as shall be deemed 
necessary by the United States in Congress assembled, for the defense of 
such State, or its trade; nor shall any 
body of forces be kept up by any State 
in time of peace, except such number 
only, as in the judgement of the 
United States in Congress assembled, 
shall be deemed requisite to garrison 
the forts necessary for the defense of 
such State; but every State shall 
always keep up a well-regulated and 
disciplined militia, sufficiently armed 
and accoutered, and shall provide and 
constantly have ready for use, in public stores, a due number of filed pieces 
and tents, and a proper quantity of 
arms, ammunition and camp 
equipage.No State shall engage in any war 
without the consent of the United 
States in Congress assembled, unless 
such State be actually invaded by enemies, or shall have received certain 
advice of a resolution being formed by 
some nation of Indians to invade such 
State, and the danger is so imminent 
as not to admit of a delay till the 
United States in Congress assembled 
can be consulted; nor shall any State 
grant commissions to any ships or vessels of war, nor letters of marque or 
reprisal, except it be after a declaration of war by the United States in 
Congress assembled, and then only 
against the Kingdom or State and the 
subjects thereof, against which warhas been so declared, and under such 
regulations as shall be established by 
the United States in Congress assembled, unless such State be infested by 
pirates, in which case vessels of war 
may be fitted out for that occasion, 
and kept so long as the danger shall 
continue, or until the United States in 
Congress assembled shall determine 
otherwise.Article VII. When land forces are 
raised by any State for the common 
defense, all officers of or under the 
rank of colonel, shall be appointed by 
the legislature of each State respectively, by whom such forces shall be 
raised, or in such manner as such 
State shall direct, and all vacancies 
shall be filled up by the State which 
first made the appointment.Article VIII. All charges of war, 
and all other expenses that shall be 
incurred for the common defense or 
general welfare, and allowed by the 
United States in Congress assembled, 
shall be defrayed out of a common 
treasury, which shall be supplied by 
the several States in proportion to the 
value of all land within each State, 
granted or surveyed for any person, as 
such land and the buildings and 
improvements thereon shall be estimated according to such mode as the 
United States in Congress assembled, 
shall from time to time direct and 
appoint.The taxes for paying that proportion shall be laid and levied by the 
authority and direction of the legislatures of the several States within the 
time agreed upon by the United States 
in Congress assembled.Article IX. The United States in 
Congress assembled, shall have the 
sole and exclusive right and power of 
determining on peace and war, except 
in the cases mentioned in the sixth 
article-of sending and receiving 
ambassadors-entering into treatiesand alliances, provided that no treaty 
of commerce shall be made whereby 
the legislative power of the respective 
States shall be restrained from imposing such imposts and duties on foreigners, as their own people are 
subjected to, or from prohibiting the 
exportation or importation of any 
species of goods or commodities 
whatsoever-of establishing rules for 
deciding in all cases, what captures on 
land or water shall be legal, and in 
what manner prizes taken by land or 
naval forces in the service of the 
United States shall be divided or 
appropriated-of granting letters of 
marque and reprisal in times of 
peace-appointing courts for the trial 
of piracies and felonies committed on 
the high seas and establishing courts 
for receiving and determining finally 
appeals in all cases of captures, provided that no member of Congress 
shall be appointed a judge of any of 
the said courts.The United States in Congress 
assembled shall also be the last resort 
on appeal in all disputes and differences now subsisting or that hereafter 
may arise between two or more States 
concerning boundary, jurisdiction or 
any other causes whatever; which 
authority shall always be exercised in 
the manner following. Whenever the 
legislative or executive authority or 
lawful agent of any State in controversy with another shall present a 
petition to Congress stating the matter 
in question and praying for a hearing, 
notice thereof shall be given by order 
of Congress to the legislative or executive authority of the other State in 
controversy, and a day assigned for 
the appearance of the parties by their 
lawful agents, who shall then be 
directed to appoint by joint consent, 
commissioners or judges to constitute 
a court for hearing and determining 
the matter in question: but if they cannot agree, Congress shall name three 
persons out of each of the United 
States, and from the list of such per sons each party shall alternately strike 
out one, the petitioners beginning, 
until the number shall be reduced to 
thirteen; and from that number not 
less than seven, nor more than nine 
names as Congress shall direct, shall 
in the presence of Congress be drawn 
out by lot, and the persons whose 
names shall be so drawn or any five of 
them, shall be commissioners or 
judges, to hear and finally determine 
the controversy, so always as a major 
part of the judges who shall hear the 
cause shall agree in the determination: 
and if either party shall neglect to 
attend at the day appointed, without 
showing reasons, which Congress 
shall judge sufficient, or being present 
shall refuse to strike, the Congress 
shall proceed to nominate three persons out of each State, and the secretary of Congress shall strike in behalf 
of such party absent or refusing; and 
the judgement and sentence of the 
court to be appointed, in the manner 
before prescribed, shall be final and 
conclusive; and if any of the parties 
shall refuse to submit to the authority 
of such court, or to appear or defend 
their claim or cause, the court shall 
nevertheless proceed to pronounce 
sentence, or judgement, which shall 
in like manner be final and decisive, 
the judgement or sentence and other 
proceedings being in either case transmitted to Congress, and lodged among 
the acts of Congress for the security of 
the parties concerned: provided that 
every commissioner, before he sits in 
judgement, shall take an oath to be 
administered by one of the judges of 
the supreme or superior court of the 
State, where the cause shall be tried, 
`well and truly to hear and determine 
the matter in question, according to 
the best of his judgement, without 
favor, affection or hope of reward': 
provided also, that no State shall be 
deprived of territory for the benefit of 
the United States.
All controversies concerning the 
private right of soil claimed under different grants of two or more States, 
whose jurisdictions as they may 
respect such lands, and the States 
which passed such grants are 
adjusted, the said grants or either of 
them being at the same time claimed 
to have originated antecedent to such 
settlement of jurisdiction, shall on the 
petition of either party to the Congress 
of the United States, be finally determined as near as may be in the same 
manner as is before prescribed for 
deciding disputes respecting territorial jurisdiction between different 
States.The United States in Congress 
assembled shall also have the sole and 
exclusive right and power of regulating the alloy and value of coin struck 
by their own authority, or by that of 
the respective States-fixing the standards of weights and measures 
throughout the United States-regulating the trade and managing all 
affairs with the Indians, not members 
of any of the States, provided that the 
legislative right of any State within its 
own limits be not infringed or violated-establishing or regulating post 
offices from one State to another, 
throughout all the United States, and 
exacting such postage on the papers 
passing through the same as may be 
requisite to defray the expenses of the 
said office-appointing all officers of 
the land forces, in the service of the 
United States, excepting regimental 
officers-appointing all the officers of 
the naval forces, and commissioning 
all officers whatever in the service of 
the United States-making rules for 
the government and regulation of the 
said land and naval forces, and directing their operations.The United States in Congress 
assembled shall have authority to 
appoint a committee, to sit in the 
recess of Congress, to be denominated 
`A Committee of the States', and to 
consist of one delegate from each 
State; and to appoint such other committees and civil officers as may benecessary for managing the general 
affairs of the United States under their 
direction-to appoint one of their 
members to preside, provided that no 
person be allowed to serve in the office 
of president more than one year in any 
term of three years; to ascertain the 
necessary sums of money to be raised 
for the service of the United States, 
and to appropriate and apply the same 
for defraying the public expenses-to 
borrow money, or emit bills on the 
credit of the United States, transmitting every half-year to the respective 
States an account of the sums of 
money so borrowed or emitted-to 
build and equip a navy-to agree upon 
the number of land forces, and to make 
requisitions from each State for its 
quota, in proportion to the number of 
white inhabitants in such State; which 
requisition shall be binding, and thereupon the legislature of each State shall 
appoint the regimental officers, raise 
the men and cloath, arm and equip 
them in a solid-like manner, at the 
expense of the United States; and the 
officers and men so cloathed, armed 
and equipped shall march to the place 
appointed, and within the time agreed 
on by the United States in Congress 
assembled. But if the United States in 
Congress assembled shall, on consideration of circumstances judge proper 
that any State should not raise men, or 
should raise a smaller number of men 
than the quota thereof, such extra 
number shall be raised, officered, 
cloathed, armed and equipped in the 
same manner as the quota of each 
State, unless the legislature of such 
State shall judge that such extra number cannot be safely spread out in the 
same, in which case they shall raise, 
officer, cloath, arm and equip as many 
of such extra number as they judge can 
be safely spared. And the officers and 
men so cloathed, armed, and 
equipped, shall march to the place 
appointed, and within the time agreed 
on by the United States in Congress 
assembled.
The United States in Congress 
assembled shall never engage in a war, 
nor grant letters of marque or reprisal 
in time of peace, nor enter into any 
treaties or alliances, nor coin money, 
nor regulate the value thereof, nor 
ascertain the sums and expenses necessary for the defense and welfare of 
the United States, or any of them, nor 
emit bills, nor borrow money on the 
credit of the United States, nor appropriate money, nor agree upon the 
number of vessels of war, to be built or 
purchased, or the number of land or 
sea forces to be raised, nor appoint a 
commander in chief of the army or 
navy, unless nine States assent to the 
same: nor shall a question on any 
other point, except for adjourning 
from day to day be determined, unless 
by the votes of the majority of the 
United States in Congress assembled.The Congress of the United States 
shall have power to adjourn to any 
time within the year, and to any place 
within the United States, so that no 
period of adjournment be for a longer 
duration than the space of six months, 
and shall publish the journal of their 
proceedings monthly, except such 
parts thereof relating to treaties, 
alliances or military operations, as in 
their judgement require secrecy; and 
the yeas and nays of the delegates of 
each State on any question shall be 
entered on the journal, when it is 
desired by any delegates of a State, or 
any of them, at his or their request 
shall be furnished with a transcript of 
the said journal, except such parts as 
are above excepted, to lay before the 
legislatures of the several States.Article X. The Committee of the 
States, or any nine of them, shall be 
authorized to execute, in the recess of 
Congress, such of the powers of Congress as the United States in Congress 
assembled, by the consent of the nine 
States, shall from time to time think 
expedient to vest them with; provided 
that no power be delegated to the saidCommittee, for the exercise of which, by 
the Articles of Confederation, the voice 
of nine States in the Congress of the 
United States assembled be requisite.Article XI. Canada acceding to this 
confederation, and adjoining in the 
measures of the United States, shall be 
admitted into, and entitled to all the 
advantages of this Union; but no other 
colony shall be admitted into the 
same, unless such admission be 
agreed to by nine States.Article XII. All bills of credit emitted, monies borrowed, and debts contracted by, or under the authority of 
Congress, before the assembling of the 
United States, in pursuance of the 
present confederation, shall be 
deemed and considered as a charge 
against the United States, for payment 
and satisfaction whereof the said 
United States, and the public faith are 
hereby solemnly pledged.Article XIII. Every State shall 
abide by the determination of the 
United States in Congress assembled, 
on all questions which by this confederation are submitted to them. And 
the Articles of this Confederation shall 
be inviolably observed by every State, 
and the Union shall be perpetual; nor 
shall any alteration at any time hereafter be made in any of them; unless 
such alteration be agreed to in a Congress of the United States, and be 
afterwards confirmed by the legislatures of every State.And Whereas it hath pleased the 
Great Governor of the World to incline 
the hearts of the legislatures we respectively represent in Congress, to approve 
of, and to authorize us to ratify the said 
Articles of Confederation and perpetual 
Union. Know Ye that we the undersigned delegates, by virtue of the power 
and authority to us given for that purpose, do by these presents, in the name 
and in behalf of our respective constituents, fully and entirely ratify andconfirm each and every of the said Articles of Confederation and perpetual 
Union, and all and singular the matters 
and things therein contained: And we 
do further solemnly plight and engage 
the faith of our respective constituents, 
that they shall abide by the determinations of the United States in Congress 
assembled, on all questions, which by 
the said Confederation are submitted to 
them. And that the Articles thereof 
shall be inviolably observed by the 
States we respectively represent, and 
that the Union shall be perpetual.In Witness whereof we have hereunto set our hands in Congress. Done 
at Philadelphia in the State of Pennsylvania the ninth day of July in the 
Year of our Lord One Thousand Seven 
Hundred and Seventy-Eight, and in 
the Third Year of the independence of 
America.On the part and behalf of the State 
of New Hampshire:Josiah BartlettJohn Wentworth Junr. August 8th 
1778On the part and behalf of the State 
of Massachusetts Bay:John HancockSamuel AdamsElbridge GerryFrancis DanaJames LovellSamuel HoltonOn the part and behalf of the State 
of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations:William ElleryHenry MarchandJohn CollinsOn the part and behalf of the State 
of Connecticut:Roger ShermanSamuel HuntingtonOliver WolcottTitus HosmerAndrew Adams
On the part and behalf of the State 
of New York:James DuaneFrancis LewisWm DuerGouv MorrisOn the part and behalf of the State 
of New Jersey, November 26, 1778:Jno WitherspoonNath. ScudderOn the part and behalf of the State 
of Pennsylvania:Robt MorrisDaniel RoberdeauJohn Bayard SmithWilliam ClinganJoseph Reed 22nd July 1778On the part and behalf of the State 
of Delaware:Tho Mckean February 12, 1779John Dickinson May 5th 1779Nicholas Van DykeOn the part and behalf of the State 
of Maryland:John Hanson March 1 1781Daniel CarrollOn the part and behalf of the State 
of Virginia:Richard Henry LeeJohn BanisterThomas AdamsJno HarvieFrancis Lightfoot LeeOn the part and behalf of the State 
of No Carolina:John Penn July 21st 1778Corns HarnettJno WilliamsOn the part and behalf of the State 
of South Carolina:Henry LaurensWilliam Henry DraytonJno MathewsRichd HutsonThos Heyward JunrOn the part and behalf of the State 
of Georgia:Jno Walton 24th July 1778Edwd TelfairEdwd Langworthy
 







THE DECLARATION OF INDEPENDENCEIN CONGRESS, July 4, 1776.The unanimous Declaration of the 
thirteen united States of America,When in the Course of human 
events, it becomes necessary for one 
people to dissolve the political bands 
which have connected them with 
another, and to assume among the 
powers of the earth, the separate and 
equal station to which the Laws of 
Nature and of Nature's God entitle 
them, a decent respect to the opinions 
of mankind requires that they should 
declare the causes which impel them 
to the separation.We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, 
that they are endowed by their Creator 
with certain unalienable Rights, that 
among these are Life, Liberty and the 
pursuit of Happiness.-That to secure 
these rights, Governments are instituted among Men, deriving their just 
powers from the consent of the gov- 
erned,-That whenever any Form of 
Government becomes destructive of 
these ends, it is the Right of the People 
to alter or to abolish it, and to institute 
new Government, laying its foundation on such principles and organizing its powers in such form, as to 
them shall seem most likely to effect 
their Safety and Happiness. Prudence, 
indeed, will dictate that Governments 
long established should not be 
changed for light and transient causes; 
and accordingly all experience hath 
shewn, that mankind are more disposed to suffer, while evils are sufferable, than to right themselves by 
abolishing the forms to which they are 
accustomed. But when a long train of 
abuses and usurpations, pursuing 
invariably the same Object evinces a 
design to reduce them under absolute 
Despotism, it is their right, it is their 
duty, to throw off such Government, 
and to provide new Guards for their 
future security.-Such has been the 
patient sufferance of these Colonies; 
and such is now the necessity whichconstrains them to alter their former 
Systems of Government. The history 
of the present King of Great Britain is 
a history of repeated injuries and 
usurpations, all having in direct object 
the establishment of an absolute 
Tyranny over these States. To prove 
this, let Facts be submitted to a candid 
world.He has refused his Assent to Laws, 
the most wholesome and necessary for 
the public good.He has forbidden his Governors to 
pass Laws of immediate and pressing 
importance, unless suspended in their 
operation till his Assent should be 
obtained; and when so suspended, he 
has utterly neglected to attend to 
them.He has refused to pass other Laws 
for the accommodation of large districts of people, unless those people 
would relinquish the right of Representation in the Legislature, a right 
inestimable to them and formidable to 
tyrants only.He has called together legislative 
bodies at places unusual, uncomfortable, and distant from the depository 
of their public Records, for the sole 
purpose of fatiguing them into compliance with his measures.He has dissolved Representative 
Houses repeatedly, for opposing with 
manly firmness his invasions on the 
rights of the people.He has refused for a long time, 
after such dissolutions, to cause others 
to be elected; whereby the Legislative 
powers, incapable of Annihilation, 
have returned to the People at large 
for their exercise; the State remaining 
in the mean time exposed to all the 
dangers of invasion from without, and 
convulsions within.He has endeavoured to prevent the 
population of these States; for that 
purpose obstructing the Laws for Naturalization of Foreigners; refusing to 
pass others to encourage their migrations hither, and raising the conditions of new Appropriations of Lands.He has obstructed the Administration of Justice, by refusing his Assent 
to Laws for establishing Judiciary 
powers.He has made Judges dependent on 
his Will alone, for the tenure of their 
offices, and the amount and payment 
of their salaries.He has erected a multitude of New 
Offices, and sent hither swarms of 
Officers to harrass our people, and eat 
out their substance.He has kept among us, in times of 
peace, Standing Armies without the 
Consent of our legislatures.He has affected to render the Military independent of and superior to 
the Civil power.He has combined with others to 
subject us to a jurisdiction foreign to 
our constitution, and unacknowledged by our laws; giving his Assent 
to their Acts of pretended Legislation:For Quartering large bodies of 
armed troops among us:For protecting them, by a mock 
Trial, from punishment for any Murders which they should commit on 
the Inhabitants of these States:For cutting off our Trade with all 
parts of the world:For imposing Taxes on us without 
our Consent:For depriving us in many cases, of 
the benefits of Trial by Jury:For transporting us beyond Seas to 
be tried for pretended offencesFor abolishing the free System of 
English Laws in a neighbouring 
Province, establishing therein an Arbitrary government, and enlarging its 
Boundaries so as to render it at once 
an example and fit instrument for 
introducing the same absolute rule 
into these Colonies:For taking away our Charters, abolishing our most valuable Laws, and 
altering fundamentally the Forms of 
our Governments:
For suspending our own Legislatures, and declaring themselves 
invested with power to legislate for us 
in all cases whatsoever.He has abdicated Government 
here, by declaring us out of his Protection and waging War against us.He has plundered our seas, ravaged our Coasts, burnt our towns, and 
destroyed the lives of our people.He is at this time transporting large 
Armies of foreign Mercenaries to compleat the works of death, desolation 
and tyranny, already begun with circumstances of Cruelty & perfidy 
scarcely paralleled in the most barbarous ages, and totally unworthy the 
Head of a civilized nation.He has constrained our fellow Citizens taken Captive on the high Seas 
to bear Arms against their Country, to 
become the executioners of their 
friends and Brethren, or to fall themselves by their Hands.He has excited domestic insurrections amongst us, and has endeavoured to bring on the inhabitants of 
our frontiers, the merciless Indian 
Savages, whose known rule of warfare, is an undistinguished destruction 
of all ages, sexes and conditions.In every stage of these Oppressions 
We have Petitioned for Redress in the 
most humble terms: Our repeated 
Petitions have been answered only by 
repeated injury. A Prince whose character is thus marked by every act 
which may define a Tyrant, is unfit to 
be the ruler of a free people.Nor have We been wanting in 
attentions to our Brittish brethren. We 
have warned them from time to time 
of attempts by their legislature to 
extend an unwarrantable jurisdiction 
over us. We have reminded them of 
the circumstances of our emigration 
and settlement here. We have 
appealed to their native justice and 
magnanimity, and we have conjured 
them by the ties of our common kindred to disavow these usurpations, 
which, would inevitably interrupt our 
connections and correspondence. 
They too have been deaf to the voice 
of justice and of consanguinity. We 
must, therefore, acquiesce in the 
necessity, which denounces our Separation, and hold them, as we hold therest of mankind, Enemies in War, in 
Peace Friends.We, therefore, the Representatives 
of the united States of America, in 
General Congress, Assembled, appealing to the Supreme Judge of the world 
for the rectitude of our intentions, do, 
in the Name, and by Authority of the 
good People of these Colonies, 
solemnly publish and declare, That 
these United Colonies are, and of 
Right ought to be Free and Independent States; that they are Absolved 
from all Allegiance to the British 
Crown, and that all political connection between them and the State of 
Great Britain, is and ought to be totally 
dissolved; and that as Free and Independent States, they have full Power 
to levy War, conclude Peace, contract 
Alliances, establish Commerce, and to 
do all other Acts and Things which 
Independent States may of right do. 
And for the support of this Declaration, with a firm reliance on the protection of divine Providence, we 
mutually pledge to each other our 
Lives, our Fortunes and our sacred 
Honor.GeorgiaButton GwinnettLyman HallGeorge WaltonNorth CarolinaWilliam HooperJoseph HewesJohn PennSouth CarolinaEdward RutledgeThomas Heyward, Jr.Thomas Lynch, Jr.Arthur MiddletonMassachusettsJohn HancockMarylandSamuel ChaseWilliam PacaThomas StoneCharles Carroll of CarrolltonVirginiaGeorge WytheRichard Henry LeeThomas JeffersonBenjamin HarrisonThomas Nelson, Jr.Francis Lightfoot LeeCarter BraxtonPennsylvaniaRobert MorrisBenjamin RushBenjamin FranklinJohn MortonGeorge ClymerJames SmithGeorge TaylorJames WilsonGeorge RossDelawareCaesar RodneyGeorge ReadThomas McKeanNew YorkWilliam FloydPhilip LivingstonFrancis LewisLewis MorrisNew JerseyRichard StocktonJohn WitherspoonFrancis HopkinsonJohn HartAbraham ClarkNew HampshireJosiah BartlettWilliam WhippleMatthew ThorntonMassachusettsSamuel AdamsJohn AdamsRobert Treat PaineElbridge GerryRhode IslandStephen HopkinsWilliam ElleryConnecticutRoger ShermanSamuel HuntingtonWilliam WilliamsOliver Wolcott
 







THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATESWe the People of the United 
States, in Order to form a more perfect 
Union, establish Justice, insure 
domestic Tranquility, provide for the 
common defence, promote the general 
Welfare, and secure the Blessings of 
Liberty to ourselves and our Posterity, 
do ordain and establish this Constitution for the United States of America.ARTICLE ISection 1All legislative Powers herein 
granted shall be vested in a Congress 
of the United States, which shall consist of a Senate and House of Representatives.Section 2The House of Representatives 
shall be composed of Members chosen 
every second Year by the People of the 
several States, and the Electors in each 
State shall have the Qualifications requisite for Electors of the most numerous Branch of the State Legislature.No Person shall be a Representative who shall not have attained to the 
Age of twenty five Years, and been 
seven Years a Citizen of the United 
States, and who shall not, when 
elected, be an Inhabitant of that State 
in which he shall be chosen.Representatives and direct Taxes 
shall be apportioned among the several States which may be included 
within this Union, according to their 
respective Numbers, which shall be 
determined by adding to the whole 
Number of free Persons, including 
those bound to Service for a Term of 
Years, and excluding Indians not 
taxed, three fifths of all other Persons. 
The actual Enumeration shall be made 
within three Years after the first Meeting of the Congress of the United 
States, and within every subsequentTerm of ten Years, in such Manner as 
they shall by Law direct. The Number 
of Representatives shall not exceed 
one for every thirty Thousand, but 
each State shall have at Least one Representative; and until such enumeration shall be made, the State of New 
Hampshire shall be entitled to chuse 
three, Massachusetts eight, Rhode- 
Island and Providence Plantations 
one, Connecticut five, New-York six, 
New Jersey four, Pennsylvania eight, 
Delaware one, Maryland six, Virginia 
ten, North Carolina five, South Carolina five, and Georgia three.When vacancies happen in the 
Representation from any State, the 
Executive Authority thereof shall 
issue Writs of Election to fill such 
Vacancies.The House of Representatives 
shall chuse their Speaker and other 
Officers; and shall have the sole 
Power of Impeachment.Section 3The Senate of the United States 
shall be composed of two Senators 
from each State, chosen by the Legislature thereof for six Years; and each 
Senator shall have one Vote.Immediately after they shall be 
assembled in Consequence of the first 
Election, they shall be divided as 
equally as may be into three Classes. 
The Seats of the Senators of the first 
Class shall be vacated at the Expiration of the second Year, of the second 
Class at the Expiration of the fourth 
Year, and of the third Class at the 
Expiration of the sixth Year, so that 
one third may be chosen every second 
Year; and if Vacancies happen by Resignation, or otherwise, during the 
Recess of the Legislature of any State, 
the Executive thereof may make temporary Appointments until the nextMeeting of the Legislature, which 
shall then fill such Vacancies.No Person shall be a Senator who 
shall not have attained to the Age of 
thirty Years, and been nine Years a 
Citizen of the United States, and who 
shall not, when elected, be an Inhabitant of that State for which he shall be 
chosen.The Vice President of the United 
States shall be President of the Senate, 
but shall have no Vote, unless they be 
equally divided.The Senate shall chuse their other 
Officers, and also a President pro tempore, in the Absence of the Vice President, or when he shall exercise the 
Office of President of the United 
States.The Senate shall have the sole 
Power to try all Impeachments. When 
sitting for that Purpose, they shall be 
on Oath or Affirmation. When the 
President of the United States is tried, 
the Chief justice shall preside: And no 
Person shall be convicted without the 
Concurrence of two thirds of the 
Members present.Judgment in Cases of Impeachment shall not extend further than to 
removal from Office, and disqualification to hold and enjoy any Office of 
honor, Trust or Profit under the 
United States: but the Party convicted 
shall nevertheless be liable and subject to Indictment, Trial, Judgment and 
Punishment, according to Law.Section 4The Times, Places and Manner of 
holding Elections for Senators and 
Representatives, shall be prescribed in 
each State by the Legislature thereof; 
but the Congress may at any time by 
Law make or alter such Regulations, 
except as to the Places of chusing Senators.
The Congress shall assemble at 
least once in every Year, and such 
Meeting shall be on the first Monday 
in December, unless they shall by Law 
appoint a different Day.Section 5Each House shall be the Judge of 
the Elections, Returns and Qualifications of its own Members, and a 
Majority of each shall constitute a 
Quorum to do Business; but a smaller 
Number may adjourn from day to day, 
and may be authorized to compel the 
Attendance of absent Members, in 
such Manner, and under such Penalties as each House may provide.Each House may determine the 
Rules of its Proceedings, punish its 
Members for disorderly Behaviour, 
and, with the Concurrence of two 
thirds, expel a Member.Each House shall keep a Journal of 
its Proceedings, and from time to time 
publish the same, excepting such 
Parts as may in their Judgment require 
Secrecy; and the Yeas and Nays of the 
Members of either House on any question shall, at the Desire of one fifth of 
those Present, be entered on the Journal.Neither House, during the Session 
of Congress, shall, without the Consent of the other, adjourn for more 
than three days, nor to any other Place 
than that in which the two Houses 
shall be sitting.Section 6The Senators and Representatives 
shall receive a Compensation for their 
Services, to be ascertained by Law, 
and paid out of the Treasury of the 
United States. They shall in all Cases, 
except Treason, Felony and Breach of 
the Peace, be privileged from Arrest 
during their Attendance at the Session 
of their respective Houses, and in 
going to and returning from the same; 
and for any Speech or Debate in either 
House, they shall not be questioned in 
any other Place.No Senator or Representative 
shall, during the Time for which hewas elected, be appointed to any civil 
Office under the Authority of the 
United States, which shall have been 
created, or the Emoluments whereof 
shall have been encreased during such 
time; and no Person holding any 
Office under the United States, shall 
be a Member of either House during 
his Continuance in Office.Section 7All Bills for raising Revenue shall 
originate in the House of Representatives; but the Senate may propose or 
concur with Amendments as on other 
Bills.Every Bill which shall have passed 
the House of Representatives and the 
Senate, shall, before it become a Law, 
be presented to the President of the 
United States: If he approve he shall 
sign it, but if not he shall return it, 
with his Objections to that House in 
which it shall have originated, who 
shall enter the Objections at large on 
their Journal, and proceed to reconsider it. If after such Reconsideration 
two thirds of that House shall agree to 
pass the Bill, it shall be sent, together 
with the Objections, to the other 
House, by which it shall likewise be 
reconsidered, and if approved by two 
thirds of that House, it shall become a 
Law. But in all such Cases the Votes of 
both Houses shall be determined by 
yeas and Nays, and the Names of the 
Persons voting for and against the Bill 
shall be entered on the Journal of each 
House respectively. If any Bill shall 
not be returned by the President 
within ten Days (Sundays excepted) 
after it shall have been presented to 
him, the Same shall be a Law, in like 
Manner as if he had signed it, unless 
the Congress by their Adjournment 
prevent its Return, in which Case it 
shall not be a Law.Every Order, Resolution, or Vote to 
which the Concurrence of the Senate 
and House of Representatives may be 
necessary (except on a question of 
Adjournment) shall be presented to 
the President of the United States; andbefore the Same shall take Effect, shall 
be approved by him, or being disapproved by him, shall be repassed by 
two thirds of the Senate and House of 
Representatives, according to the 
Rules and Limitations prescribed in 
the Case of a Bill.Section 8The Congress shall have Power To 
lay and collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts 
and Excises, to pay the Debts and provide for the common Defence and general Welfare of the United States; but 
all Duties, Imposts and Excises shall 
be uniform throughout the United 
States;To borrow Money on the credit of 
the United States;To regulate Commerce with foreign Nations, and among the several 
States, and with the Indian Tribes;To establish an uniform Rule of 
Naturalization, and uniform Laws on 
the subject of Bankruptcies throughout the United States;To coin Money, regulate the Value 
thereof, and of foreign Coin, and fix 
the Standard of Weights and Measures;To provide for the Punishment of 
counterfeiting the Securities and current Coin of the United States;To establish Post Offices and Post 
Roads;To promote the Progress of Science 
and useful Arts, by securing for limited Times to Authors and Inventors 
the exclusive Right to their respective 
Writings and Discoveries;To constitute Tribunals inferior to 
the supreme Court;To define and punish Piracies and 
Felonies committed on the high Seas, 
and Offences against the Law of 
Nations;To declare War, grant Letters of 
Marque and Reprisal, and make Rules 
concerning Captures on Land and 
Water;To raise and support Armies, but 
no Appropriation of Money to that Use shall be for a longer Term than 
two Years;
To provide and maintain a Navy;To make Rules for the Government 
and Regulation of the land and naval 
Forces;To provide for calling forth the 
Militia to execute the Laws of the 
Union, suppress Insurrections and 
repel Invasions;To provide for organizing, arming, 
and disciplining, the Militia, and for 
governing such Part of them as may be 
employed in the Service of the United 
States, reserving to the States respectively, the Appointment of the Officers, and the Authority of training the 
Militia according to the discipline prescribed by Congress;To exercise exclusive Legislation 
in all Cases whatsoever, over such District (not exceeding ten Miles square) 
as may, by Cession of particular 
States, and the Acceptance of Congress, become the Seat of the Government of the United States, and to 
exercise like Authority over all Places 
purchased by the Consent of the Legislature of the State in which the Same 
shall be, for the Erection of Forts, Magazines, Arsenals, dock-Yards, and 
other needful Buildings;-AndTo make all Laws which shall be 
necessary and proper for carrying into 
Execution the foregoing Powers, and 
all other Powers vested by this Constitution in the Government of the 
United States, or in any Department or 
Officer thereof.Section 9The Migration or Importation of 
such Persons as any of the States now 
existing shall think proper to admit, 
shall not be prohibited by the Congress prior to the Year one thousand 
eight hundred and eight, but a Tax or 
duty may be imposed on such Importation, not exceeding ten dollars for 
each Person.The Privilege of the Writ of Habeas 
Corpus shall not be suspended, unlesswhen in Cases of Rebellion or Invasion the public Safety may require it.No Bill of Attainder or ex post 
facto Law shall be passed.No Capitation, or other direct, Tax 
shall be laid, unless in Proportion to 
the Census or enumeration herein 
before directed to be taken.No Tax or Duty shall be laid on 
Articles exported from any State.No Preference shall be given by 
any Regulation of Commerce or Revenue to the Ports of one State over 
those of another; nor shall Vessels 
bound to, or from, one State, be 
obliged to enter, clear, or pay Duties in 
another.No Money shall be drawn from the 
Treasury, but in Consequence of 
Appropriations made by Law; and a 
regular Statement and Account of the 
Receipts and Expenditures of all public Money shall be published from 
time to time.No Title of Nobility shall be 
granted by the United States: And no 
Person holding any Office of Profit or 
Trust under them, shall, without the 
Consent of the Congress, accept of any 
present, Emolument, Office, or Title, 
of any kind whatever, from any King, 
Prince, or foreign State.Section 10No State shall enter into any 
Treaty, Alliance, or Confederation; 
grant Letters of Marque and Reprisal; 
coin Money; emit Bills of Credit; make 
any Thing but gold and silver Coin a 
Tender in Payment of Debts; pass any 
Bill of Attainder, ex post facto Law, or 
Law impairing the Obligation of Contracts, or grant any Title of Nobility.No State shall, without the Consent of the Congress, lay any Imposts 
or Duties on Imports or Exports, 
except what may be absolutely necessary for executing it's inspection 
Laws: and the net Produce of all 
Duties and Imposts, laid by any State 
on Imports or Exports, shall be for the 
Use of the Treasury of the United 
States; and all such Laws shall be subject to the Revision and Controul of 
the Congress.No State shall, without the Consent of Congress, lay any Duty of Tonnage, keep Troops, or Ships of War in 
time of Peace, enter into any Agreement or Compact with another State, 
or with a foreign Power, or engage in 
War, unless actually invaded, or in 
such imminent Danger as will not 
admit of delay.ARTICLE IISection 1The executive Power shall be 
vested in a President of the United 
States of America. He shall hold his 
Office during the Term of four Years, 
and, together with the Vice President, 
chosen for the same Term, be elected, 
as follows:Each State shall appoint, in such 
Manner as the Legislature thereof may 
direct, a Number of Electors, equal to 
the whole Number of Senators and 
Representatives to which the State 
may be entitled in the Congress: but 
no Senator or Representative, or Person holding an Office of Trust or Profit 
under the United States, shall be 
appointed an Elector.The Electors shall meet in their 
respective States, and vote by Ballot 
for two Persons, of whom one at least 
shall not be an Inhabitant of the same 
State with themselves. And they shall 
make a List of all the Persons voted 
for, and of the Number of Votes for 
each; which List they shall sign and 
certify, and transmit sealed to the Seat 
of the Government of the United 
States, directed to the President of the 
Senate. The President of the Senate 
shall, in the Presence of the Senate 
and House of Representatives, open 
all the Certificates, and the Votes shall 
then be counted. The Person having 
the greatest Number of Votes shall be 
the President, if such Number be a 
Majority of the whole Number of Electors appointed; and if there be more 
than one who have such Majority, and have an equal Number of Votes, then 
the House of Representatives shall 
immediately chuse by Ballot one of 
them for President; and if no Person 
have a Majority, then from the five 
highest on the List the said House 
shall in like Manner chuse the President. But in chusing the President, the 
Votes shall be taken by States, the 
Representation from each State having 
one Vote; A quorum for this purpose 
shall consist of a Member or Members 
from two thirds of the States, and a 
Majority of all the States shall be necessary to a Choice. In every Case, after 
the Choice of the President, the Person 
having the greatest Number of Votes of 
the Electors shall be the Vice President. But if there should remain two 
or more who have equal Votes, the 
Senate shall chuse from them by Ballot the Vice President.
The Congress may determine the 
Time of chusing the Electors, and the 
Day on which they shall give their 
Votes; which Day shall be the same 
throughout the United States.No Person except a natural born 
Citizen, or a Citizen of the United 
States, at the time of the Adoption of 
this Constitution, shall be eligible to 
the Office of President; neither shall 
any Person be eligible to that Office 
who shall not have attained to the Age 
of thirty five Years, and been fourteen 
Years a Resident within the United 
States.In Case of the Removal of the President from Office, or of his Death, Resignation, or Inability to discharge the 
Powers and Duties of the said Office, 
the Same shall devolve on the Vice 
President, and the Congress may by 
Law provide for the Case of Removal, 
Death, Resignation or Inability, both of 
the President and Vice President, 
declaring what Officer shall then act 
as President, and such Officer shall 
act accordingly, until the Disability be 
removed, or a President shall be 
elected.The President shall, at stated 
Times, receive for his Services, a Compensation, which shall neither be 
increased nor diminished during the 
Period for which he shall have been 
elected, and he shall not receive 
within that Period any other Emolument from the United States, or any of 
them.Before he enter on the Execution 
of his Office, he shall take the following Oath or Affirmation:-"I do 
solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will 
faithfully execute the Office of President of the United States, and will to 
the best of my Ability, preserve, protect and defend the Constitution of the 
United States."Section 2The President shall be Commander in Chief of the Army and Navy of 
the United States, and of the Militia of 
the several States, when called into 
the actual Service of the United States; 
he may require the Opinion, in writing, of the principal Officer in each of 
the executive Departments, upon any 
Subject relating to the Duties of their 
respective Offices, and he shall have 
Power to grant Reprieves and Pardons 
for Offences against the United States, 
except in Cases of Impeachment.He shall have Power, by and with 
the Advice and Consent of the Senate, 
to make Treaties, provided two thirds 
of the Senators present concur; and he 
shall nominate, and by and with the 
Advice and Consent of the Senate, 
shall appoint Ambassadors, other 
public Ministers and Consuls, Judges 
of the supreme Court, and all other 
Officers of the United States, whose 
Appointments are not herein otherwise provided for, and which shall be 
established by Law: but the Congress 
may by Law vest the Appointment of 
such inferior Officers, as they think 
proper, in the President alone, in the 
Courts of Law, or in the Heads of 
Departments.The President shall have Power to 
fill up all Vacancies that may happen 
during the Recess of the Senate, by 
granting Commissions which shall 
expire at the End of their next Session.Section 3He shall from time to time give to 
the Congress Information of the State 
of the Union, and recommend to their 
Consideration such Measures as he 
shall judge necessary and expedient; 
he may, on extraordinary Occasions, 
convene both Houses, or either of 
them, and in Case of Disagreement 
between them, with Respect to the 
Time of Adjournment, he may adjourn 
them to such Time as he shall think 
proper; he shall receive Ambassadors 
and other public Ministers; he shall 
take Care that the Laws be faithfully 
executed, and shall Commission all 
the Officers of the United States.Section 4The President, Vice President and 
all civil Officers of the United States, 
shall be removed from Office on 
Impeachment for, and Conviction of, 
Treason, Bribery, or other high Crimes 
and Misdemeanors.Article IIISection 1The judicial Power of the United 
States shall be vested in one supreme 
Court, and in such inferior Courts as 
the Congress may from time to time 
ordain and establish. The Judges, both 
of the supreme and inferior Courts, 
shall hold their Offices during good 
Behaviour, and shall, at stated Times, 
receive for their Services a Compensation, which shall not be diminished 
during their Continuance in Office.Section 2The judicial Power shall extend to 
all Cases, in Law and Equity, arising 
under this Constitution, the Laws of 
the United States, and Treaties made, 
or which shall be made, under their 
Authority;-to all Cases affecting 
Ambassadors, other public Ministers and Consuls;-to all Cases of admiralty and maritime Jurisdiction;-to 
Controversies to which the United 
States shall be a Party; to Controversies between two or more States;between a State and Citizens of 
another State;-between Citizens of 
different States;-between Citizens of 
the same State claiming Lands under 
Grants of different States, and between 
a State, or the Citizens thereof, and 
foreign States, Citizens or Subjects.
In all Cases affecting Ambassadors, 
other public Ministers and Consuls, 
and those in which a State shall be 
Party, the supreme Court shall have 
original Jurisdiction. In all the other 
Cases before mentioned, the supreme 
Court shall have appellate Jurisdiction, both as to Law and Fact, with 
such Exceptions, and under such Regulations as the Congress shall make.The Trial of all Crimes, except in 
Cases of Impeachment, shall be by 
Jury; and such Trial shall be held in 
the State where the said Crimes shall 
have been committed; but when not 
committed within any State, the Trial 
shall be at such Place or Places as the 
Congress may by Law have directed.Section 3Treason against the United States, 
shall consist only in levying War 
against them, or in adhering to their 
Enemies, giving them Aid and Comfort. No Person shall be convicted of 
Treason unless on the Testimony of 
two Witnesses to the same overt Act, 
or on Confession in open Court.The Congress shall have Power to 
declare the Punishment of Treason, 
but no Attainder of Treason shall work 
Corruption of Blood, or Forfeiture 
except during the Life of the Person 
attainted.ARTICLE IVSection 1Full Faith and Credit shall be 
given in each State to the public Acts, 
Records, and judicial Proceedings of 
every other State. And the Congressmay by general Laws prescribe the 
Manner in which such Acts, Records 
and Proceedings shall be proved, and 
the Effect thereof.Section 2The Citizens of each State shall be 
entitled to all Privileges and Immunities of Citizens in the several States.A Person charged in any State 
with Treason, Felony, or other Crime, 
who shall flee from Justice, and be 
found in another State, shall on 
Demand of the executive Authority of 
the State from which he fled, be delivered up, to be removed to the State 
having Jurisdiction of the Crime.No Person held to Service or 
Labour in one State, under the Laws 
thereof, escaping into another, shall, 
in Consequence of any Law or Regulation therein, be discharged from such 
Service or Labour, but shall be delivered up on Claim of the Party to 
whom such Service or Labour may be 
due.Section 3New States may be admitted by 
the Congress into this Union; but no 
new State shall be formed or erected 
within the Jurisdiction of any other 
State; nor any State be formed by the 
Junction of two or more States, or 
Parts of States, without the Consent of 
the Legislatures of the States concerned as well as of the Congress.The Congress shall have Power to 
dispose of and make all needful Rules 
and Regulations respecting the Territory or other Property belonging to the 
United States; and nothing in this 
Constitution shall be so construed as 
to Prejudice any Claims of the United 
States, or of any particular State.Section 4The United States shall guarantee 
to every State in this Union a Republican Form of Government, and shall 
protect each of them against Invasion; 
and on Application of the Legislature, 
or of the Executive (when the Legislature cannot be convened), against 
domestic Violence.ARTICLE VThe Congress, whenever two 
thirds of both Houses shall deem it 
necessary, shall propose Amendments 
to this Constitution, or, on the Application of the Legislatures of two thirds 
of the several States, shall call a Convention for proposing Amendments, 
which, in either Case, shall be valid to 
all Intents and Purposes, as Part of this 
Constitution, when ratified by the Legislatures of three fourths of the several 
States, or by Conventions in three 
fourths thereof, as the one or the other 
Mode of Ratification may be proposed 
by the Congress; Provided that no 
Amendment which may be made 
prior to the Year One thousand eight 
hundred and eight shall in any Manner affect the first and fourth Clauses 
in the Ninth Section of the first Article; and that no State, without its Consent, shall be deprived of its equal 
Suffrage in the Senate.ARTICLE VIAll Debts contracted and Engagements entered into, before the Adoption of this Constitution, shall be as 
valid against the United States under 
this Constitution, as under the Confederation.This Constitution, and the Laws of 
the United States which shall be made 
in Pursuance thereof; and all Treaties 
made, or which shall be made, under 
the Authority of the United States, 
shall be the supreme Law of the Land; 
and the Judges in every State shall be 
bound thereby, any Thing in the Constitution or Laws of any State to the 
Contrary notwithstanding.The Senators and Representatives 
before mentioned, and the Members of 
the several State Legislatures, and all 
executive and judicial Officers, both 
of the United States and of the several 
States, shall be bound by Oath or 
Affirmation, to support this Constitution; but no religious Test shall ever be 
required as a Qualification to any Office or public Trust under the 
United States.
Congress shall make no law 
respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise 
thereof; or abridging the freedom of 
speech, or of the press; or the right of 
the people peaceably to assemble, andto petition the Government for a 
redress of grievances.ARTICLE VIIThe Ratification of the Conventions of nine States, shall be sufficient 
for the Establishment of this Constitution between the States so ratifying 
the Same.The Word, "the," being interlined 
between the seventh and eighth Lines 
of the first Page, the Word "Thirty" 
being partly written on an Erazure in 
the fifteenth Line of the first Page, The 
Words "is tried" being interlined 
between the thirty second and thirty 
third Lines of the first Page and the 
Word "the" being interlined between 
the forty third and forty fourth Lines 
of the second Page.Attest William Jackson SecretaryDone in Convention by the Unanimous Consent of the States present the 
Seventeenth Day of September in the 
Year of our Lord one thousand seven 
hundred and Eighty seven and of the 
Independence of the United States of 
America the Twelfth In witness 
whereof We have hereunto subscribed 
our Names,G. WashingtonPresidt and deputy from VirginiaDelawareGeo: ReadGunning Bedford junJohn DickinsonRichard BassettJaco: BroomMarylandJames McHenryDan of St Thos. JeniferDanl. CarrollVirginiaJohn BlairJames Madison Jr.North CarolinaWm. BlountRichd. Dobbs SpaightHu WilliamsonSouth CarolinaJ. RutledgeCharles Cotesworth PinckneyCharles PinckneyPierce ButlerGeorgiaWilliam FewAbr BaldwinNew HampshireJohn LangdonNicholas GilmanMassachusettsNathaniel GorhamRufus KingConnecticutWm. Saml. JohnsonRoger ShermanNew YorkAlexander HamiltonNew JerseyWil: LivingstonDavid BrearleyWm. PatersonJona: DaytonPennsylvaniaB FranklinThomas MifflinRobt. MorrisGeo. ClymerThos. FitzSimonsJared IngersollJames WilsonGouv MorrisAMENDMENT IAMENDMENT IIA well regulated Militia, being 
necessary to the security of a free 
State, the right of the people to keep 
and bear Arms, shall not be infringed.AMENDMENT IIINo Soldier shall, in time of peace 
be quartered in any house, without the 
consent of the Owner, nor in time of 
war, but in a manner to be prescribed 
by law.AMENDMENT IVThe right of the people to be 
secure in their persons, houses, 
papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches and seizures, shall not 
be violated, and no Warrants shall 
issue, but upon probable cause, supported by Oath or affirmation, and 
particularly describing the place to be 
searched, and the persons or things to 
be seized.AMENDMENT VNo person shall be held to answer 
for a capital, or otherwise infamous 
crime, unless on a presentment or 
indictment of a Grand Jury, except in 
cases arising in the land or naval 
forces, or in the Militia, when in 
actual service in time of War or public 
danger; nor shall any person be subject for the same offence to be twice 
put in jeopardy of life or limb; nor 
shall be compelled in any criminal 
case to be a witness against himself, 
nor be deprived of life, liberty, or 
property, without due process of law; 
nor shall private property be taken for 
public use, without just compensation.AMENDMENT VIIn all criminal prosecutions, the 
accused shall enjoy the right to a 
speedy and public trial, by an impartial jury of the State and district wherein the crime shall have been 
committed, which district shall have 
been previously ascertained by law, 
and to be informed of the nature and 
cause of the accusation; to be confronted with the witnesses against 
him; to have compulsory process for 
obtaining witnesses in his favor, and 
to have the Assistance of Counsel for 
his defence.
AMENDMENT VIIIn Suits at common law, where the 
value in controversy shall exceed 
twenty dollars, the right of trial by 
jury shall be preserved, and no fact 
tried by a jury, shall be otherwise reexamined in any Court of the United 
States, than according to the rules of 
the common law.AMENDMENT VIIIExcessive bail shall not be 
required, nor excessive fines imposed, 
nor cruel and unusual punishments 
inflicted.AMENDMENT IXThe enumeration in the Constitution, of certain rights, shall not be construed to deny or disparage others 
retained by the people.AMENDMENT XThe powers not delegated to the 
United States by the Constitution, nor 
prohibited by it to the States, are 
reserved to the States respectively, or 
to the people.AMENDMENT XIPassed by Congress March 4, 1794. 
Ratified February 7, 1795.The Judicial power of the United 
States shall not be construed to extend 
to any suit in law or equity, commenced or prosecuted against one of 
the United States by Citizens of 
another State, or by Citizens or Subjects of any Foreign State.AMENDMENT XIIPassed by Congress December 9, 
1803. Ratified June 15, 1804.The Electors shall meet in their 
respective states and vote by ballot for 
President and Vice-President, one of 
whom, at least, shall not be an inhabitant of the same state with themselves; they shall name in their ballots 
the person voted for as President, and 
in distinct ballots the person voted for 
as Vice-President, and they shall make 
distinct lists of all persons voted for as 
President, and of all persons voted for 
as Vice-President, and of the number 
of votes for each, which lists they 
shall sign and certify, and transmit 
sealed to the seat of the government of 
the United States, directed to the President of the Senate;-the President of 
the Senate shall, in the presence of the 
Senate and House of Representatives, 
open all the certificates and the votes 
shall then be counted;-The person 
having the greatest number of votes 
for President, shall be the President, if 
such number be a majority of the 
whole number of Electors appointed; 
and if no person have such majority, 
then from the persons having the 
highest numbers not exceeding three 
on the list of those voted for as President, the House of Representatives 
shall choose immediately, by ballot, 
the President. But in choosing the 
President, the votes shall be taken by 
states, the representation from each 
state having one vote; a quorum for 
this purpose shall consist of a member 
or members from two-thirds of the 
states, and a majority of all the states 
shall be necessary to a choice. [And if 
the House of Representatives shall not 
choose a President whenever the right 
of choice shall devolve upon them, 
before the fourth day of March next 
following, then the Vice-President 
shall act as President, as in case of the 
death or other constitutional disability 
of the President.] The person having 
the greatest number of votes as VicePresident, shall be the Vice-President,if such number be a majority of the 
whole number of Electors appointed, 
and if no person have a majority, then 
from the two highest numbers on the 
list, the Senate shall choose the VicePresident; a quorum for the purpose 
shall consist of two-thirds of the 
whole number of Senators, and a 
majority of the whole number shall be 
necessary to a choice. But no person 
constitutionally ineligible to the office 
of President shall be eligible to that of 
Vice-President of the United States.AMENDMENT XIIIPassed by Congress January 31, 
1865. Ratified December 6, 1865.Section 1Neither slavery nor involuntary 
servitude, except as a punishment for 
crime whereof the party shall have 
been duly convicted, shall exist 
within the United States, or any place 
subject to their jurisdiction.Section 2Congress shall have power to 
enforce this article by appropriate legislation.AMENDMENT XIVPassed by Congress June 13, 1866. 
Ratified July 9, 1868.Section 1All persons born or naturalized in 
the United States, and subject to the 
jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the 
United States and of the State wherein 
they reside. No State shall make or 
enforce any law which shall abridge 
the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States; nor shall 
any State deprive any person of life, 
liberty, or property, without due 
process of law; nor deny to any person 
within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws.Section 2Representatives shall be apportioned among the several States 
according to their respective numbers, 
counting the whole number of persons 
in each State, excluding Indians not taxed. But when the right to vote at 
any election for the choice of electors 
for President and Vice-President of the 
United States, Representatives in Congress, the Executive and Judicial officers of a State, or the members of the 
Legislature thereof, is denied to any of 
the male inhabitants of such State, 
being twenty-one years of age, and citizens of the United States, or in any 
way abridged, except for participation 
in rebellion, or other crime, the basis 
of representation therein shall be 
reduced in the proportion which the 
number of such male citizens shall 
bear to the whole number of male citizens twenty-one years of age in such 
State.
Section 3No person shall be a Senator or 
Representative in Congress, or elector 
of President and Vice-President, or 
hold any office, civil or military, 
under the United States, or under any 
State, who, having previously taken 
an oath, as a member of Congress, or 
as an officer of the United States, or as 
a member of any State legislature, or 
as an executive or judicial officer of 
any State, to support the Constitution 
of the United States, shall have 
engaged in insurrection or rebellion 
against the same, or given aid or comfort to the enemies thereof. But Congress may by a vote of two-thirds of 
each House, remove such disability.Section 4The validity of the public debt of 
the United States, authorized by law, 
including debts incurred for payment 
of pensions and bounties for services 
in suppressing insurrection or rebellion, shall not be questioned. But neither the United States nor any State 
shall assume or pay any debt or obligation incurred in aid of insurrection 
or rebellion against the United States, 
or any claim for the loss or emancipation of any slave; but all such debts, 
obligations and claims shall be held 
illegal and void.Section 5The Congress shall have the power 
to enforce, by appropriate legislation, 
the provisions of this article.AMENDMENT XVPassed by Congress February 26, 
1869. Ratified February 3, 1870.Section 1The right of citizens of the United 
States to vote shall not be denied or 
abridged by the United States or by 
any State on account of race, color, or 
previous condition of servitude.Section 2The Congress shall have the power 
to enforce this article by appropriate 
legislation.AMENDMENT XVIPassed by Congress July 2, 1909. 
Ratified February 3, 1913.The Congress shall have power to 
lay and collect taxes on incomes, from 
whatever source derived, without 
apportionment among the several 
States, and without regard to any census or enumeration.AMENDMENT XVIIPassed by Congress May 13, 1912. 
Ratified April 8, 1913.The Senate of the United States 
shall be composed of two Senators 
from each State, elected by the people 
thereof, for six years; and each Senator shall have one vote. The electors in 
each State shall have the qualifications requisite for electors of the most 
numerous branch of the State legislatures.When vacancies happen in the 
representation of any State in the Senate, the executive authority of such 
State shall issue writs of election to 
fill such vacancies: Provided, That the 
legislature of any State may empower 
the executive thereof to make temporary appointments until the people fill 
the vacancies by election as the legislature may direct.This amendment shall not be so 
construed as to affect the election or 
term of any Senator chosen before it 
becomes valid as part of the Constitution.AMENDMENT XVIIIPassed by Congress December 18, 
1917. Ratified January 16, 1919.Section 1After one year from the ratification 
of this article the manufacture, sale, or 
transportation of intoxicating liquors 
within, the importation thereof into, 
or the exportation thereof from the 
United States and all territory subject 
to the jurisdiction thereof for beverage 
purposes is hereby prohibited.Section 2The Congress and the several 
States shall have concurrent power to 
enforce this article by appropriate legislation.Section 3This article shall be inoperative 
unless it shall have been ratified as an 
amendment to the Constitution by the 
legislatures of the several States, as 
provided in the Constitution, within 
seven years from the date of the submission hereof to the States by the 
Congress.AMENDMENT XIXPassed by Congress June 4, 1919. 
Ratified August 18, 1920.The right of citizens of the United 
States to vote shall not be denied or 
abridged by the United States or by 
any State on account of sex.Congress shall have power to 
enforce this article by appropriate legislation.AMENDMENT XXPassed by Congress March 2, 1932. 
Ratified January 23, 1933.Section 1The terms of the President and the 
Vice President shall end at noon on 
the 20th day of January, and the terms 
of Senators and Representatives at noon on the 3d day of January, of the 
years in which such terms would have 
ended if this article had not been ratified; and the terns of their successors 
shall then begin.
Section 2The Congress shall assemble at 
least once in every year, and such 
meeting shall begin at noon on the 3d 
day of January, unless they shall by 
law appoint a different day.Section 3If, at the time fixed for the beginning of the term of the President, the 
President elect shall have died, the 
Vice President elect shall become 
President. If a President shall not have 
been chosen before the time fixed for 
the beginning of his term, or if the 
President elect shall have failed to 
qualify, then the Vice President elect 
shall act as President until a President 
shall have qualified; and the Congress 
may by law provide for the case 
wherein neither a President elect nor 
a Vice President shall have qualified, 
declaring who shall then act as President, or the manner in which one who 
is to act shall be selected, and such 
person shall act accordingly until a 
President or Vice President shall have 
qualified.Section 4The Congress may by law provide 
for the case of the death of any of the 
persons from whom the House of Representatives may choose a President 
whenever the right of choice shall 
have devolved upon them, and for the 
case of the death of any of the persons 
from whom the Senate may choose a 
Vice President whenever the right of 
choice shall have devolved upon 
them.Section 5Sections 1 and 2 shall take effect 
on the 15th day of October following 
the ratification of this article.Section 6This article shall be inoperative 
unless it shall have been ratified as an 
amendment to the Constitution by thelegislatures of three-fourths of the several States within seven years from the 
date of its submission.AMENDMENT XXIPassed by Congress February 20, 
1933. Ratified December 5, 1933.Section 1The eighteenth article of amendment to the Constitution of the United 
States is hereby repealed.Section 2The transportation or importation 
into any State, Territory, or Possession 
of the United States for delivery or use 
therein of intoxicating liquors, in violation of the laws thereof, is hereby 
prohibited.Section 3This article shall be inoperative 
unless it shall have been ratified as an 
amendment to the Constitution by 
conventions in the several States, as 
provided in the Constitution, within 
seven years from the date of the submission hereof to the States by the 
Congress.AMENDMENT XXIIPassed by Congress March 21, 
1947. Ratified February 27, 1951.Section 1No person shall be elected to the 
office of the President more than 
twice, and no person who has held the 
office of President, or acted as President, for more than two years of a 
term to which some other person was 
elected President shall be elected to 
the office of President more than once. 
But this Article shall not apply to any 
person holding the office of President 
when this Article was proposed by 
Congress, and shall not prevent any 
person who may be holding the office 
of President, or acting as President, 
during the term within which this 
Article becomes operative from holding the office of President or acting as 
President during the remainder of 
such term.Section 2This article shall be inoperative 
unless it shall have been ratified as an 
amendment to the Constitution by the 
legislatures of three-fourths of the several States within seven years from the 
date of its submission to the States by 
the Congress.AMENDMENT XXIIIPassed by Congress June 16, 1960. 
Ratified March 29, 1961.Section 1The District constituting the seat 
of Government of the United States 
shall appoint in such manner as Congress may direct:A number of electors of President 
and Vice President equal to the whole 
number of Senators and Representatives in Congress to which the District 
would be entitled if it were a State, 
but in no event more than the least 
populous State; they shall be in addition to those appointed by the States, 
but they shall be considered, for the 
purposes of the election of President 
and Vice President, to be electors 
appointed by a State; and they shall 
meet in the District and perform such 
duties as provided by the twelfth article of amendment.Section 2The Congress shall have power to 
enforce this article by appropriate legislation.AMENDMENT XXIVPassed by Congress August 27, 
1962. Ratified January 23, 1964.Section 1The right of citizens of the United 
States to vote in any primary or other 
election for President or Vice President, for electors for President or Vice 
President, or for Senator or Representative in Congress, shall not be denied 
or abridged by the United States or 
any State by reason of failure to pay 
poll tax or other tax.
Section 2The Congress shall have power to 
enforce this article by appropriate legislation.AMENDMENT XXVPassed by Congress July 6, 1965. 
Ratified February 10, 1967.Section 1In case of the removal of the President from office or of his death or resignation, the Vice President shall 
become President.Section 2Whenever there is a vacancy in the 
office of the Vice President, the President shall nominate a Vice President 
who shall take office upon confirmation by a majority vote of both Houses 
of Congress.Section 3Whenever the President transmits 
to the President pro tempore of the 
Senate and the Speaker of the House 
of Representatives his written declaration that he is unable to discharge the 
powers and duties of his office, and 
until he transmits to them a written 
declaration to the contrary, such powers and duties shall be discharged by 
the Vice President as Acting President. 
Section 4Whenever the Vice President and a 
majority of either the principal officers of the executive departments or of 
such other body as Congress may by 
law provide, transmit to the President 
pro tempore of the Senate and the 
Speaker of the House of Representatives their written declaration that the 
President is unable to discharge the 
powers and duties of his office, the 
Vice President shall immediately 
assume the powers and duties of the 
office as Acting President.Thereafter, when the President 
transmits to the President pro tempore 
of the Senate and the Speaker of the 
House of Representatives his written 
declaration that no inability exists, he 
shall resume the powers and duties of 
his office unless the Vice President 
and a majority of either the principal 
officers of the executive department or 
of such other body as Congress may by 
law provide, transmit within four 
days to the President pro tempore of 
the Senate and the Speaker of the 
House of Representatives their written 
declaration that the President is 
unable to discharge the powers and 
duties of his office. Thereupon Congress shall decide the issue, assembling within forty-eight hours for that 
purpose if not in session. If the Congress, within twenty-one days after 
receipt of the latter written declaration, or, if Congress is not in session,within twenty-one days after Congress 
is required to assemble, determines by 
two-thirds vote of both Houses that 
the President is unable to discharge 
the powers and duties of his office, 
the Vice President shall continue to 
discharge the same as Acting President; otherwise, the President shall 
resume the powers and duties of his 
office.AMENDMENT XXVIPassed by Congress March 23, 
1971. Ratified July 1, 1971.Section 1The right of citizens of the United 
States, who are eighteen years of age 
or older, to vote shall not be denied or 
abridged by the United States or by 
any State on account of age.Section 2The Congress shall have power to 
enforce this article by appropriate legislation.AMENDMENT XXVIIOriginally proposed Sept. 25, 
1789. Ratified May 7, 1992.No law, varying the compensation 
for the services of the Senators and 
Representatives, shall take effect, until 
an election of representatives shall 
have intervened.
 







ACKNOWLEDGMENTSmust thank Mr. Wayne Carpenter, formerly honors government 
teacher of Belton, Texas, High School, for his enthusiasm for his 
subject. Tom Woods of the Ludwig von Mises Institute played a key 
role in this book's conception and its execution, and is generally a "hail 
fellow well met." Lee Cheek, a true friend in academia if ever there was 
such a thing, merits thanks for steadfast encouragement of all my scholarly endeavors.Peter Onuf will perhaps wince to see his name here. Credit, I answer, 
is not the same as blame-and yet, the Virginian Jeffersonian pulse of this 
book owes much to his inspiration.Forrest McDonald and R. Kent Newmyer, senior scholars in no need of 
my gratitude, encouraged me in my work, both personally and through 
their fine crafting of historical narratives. Clyde Wilson, too, has been in 
my corner for years.Lino Graglia, without whom the University of Texas School of Law 
would have been an intellectual wasteland for me, may wonder why he 
needs my praise, but it is rather more in the form of an appreciation than 
a personal encomium.My parents, Chuck and Linda Gutzman, stressed the significance of 
education, books, and general cussedness. Blame them!
Trianna, Marika, and Cyril support their daddy whatever he does. I 
could not do it without them.Lorie, to whom this tome is dedicated, knows that the dedication only 
scratches the surface of what I mean to say.
 







NOTESChapter One: What Made the Constitution: Revolution and Confederation1. Harold B. Gill Jr., "The Model of an American Whig," Colonial 
Williamsburg Journal, Autumn 2002.Chapter Two: Federalism vs. Nationalism at the Philadelphia Convention1. I have relied for information on Philadelphia Convention participants 
on M. E. Bradford, Founding Fathers (Lawrence: University Press of 
Kansas, 1994).2. Black's Law Dictionary, 5th edition (St. Paul, MN: West Publishing 
Company, 1979) has been of great help in compiling the definitions of 
Legal Latinisms throughout this book.Chapter Four: Judges: Power-Hungry from the Beginning1. Julius Goebel, Jr., The Oliver Wendell Holmes Devise History of the 
Supreme Court of the United States, Volume I: Antecedents and Beginnings to 1801 (New York: Macmillan, 1971), 732.2. Letter to John G. Jackson, December 27, 1821.3. The Documentary History of the Ratification of the Constitution: Virginia, ed. John Kaminski, et al. (Madison, WI: State Historical Society of 
Wisconsin, 1993), 808.
Chapter Seven: The War for Southern Independence as a Constitutional Crisis1. Forrest McDonald, "Was the Fourteenth Amendment Constitutionally 
Adopted?" Georgia Journal of Southern Legal History 1, Spring/Summer 
199, 15. This article is the basis of the following discussion of the Fourteenth Amendment's (non-)ratification.
 







INDEX




























