





Table of Contents





Preface


What this book covers


What you need for this book


Who this book is for


Conventions


Reader feedback


Customer support


Downloading the example code


Downloading the color images of this book


Errata


Piracy


Questions






Programming with Data


Understanding data wrangling


Getting and reading data


Cleaning data


Shaping and structuring data


Storing data




The tools for data wrangling


Python


R




Summary




Introduction to Programming in Python


External resources


Logistical overview


Installation requirements


Using other learning resources


Python 2 versus Python 3




Running programs in python


Using text editors to write and manage programs


Writing the hello world program




Using the terminal to run programs


Running the Hello World program




What if it didn't work?




Data types, variables, and the Python shell


Numbers - integers and floats


Why integers? 




Strings


Booleans


The print function


Variables


Adding to a variable


Subtracting from a variable


Multiplication


Division


Naming variables




Arrays (lists, if you ask Python)


Dictionaries 




Compound statements


Compound statement syntax and indentation level


For statements and iterables


If statements


Else and elif clauses




Functions


Passing arguments to a function


Returning values from a function






Making annotations within programs


A programmer's resources


Documentation


Online forums and mailing lists




 Summary




Reading, Exploring, and Modifying Data - Part I


External resources


Logistical overview


Installation requirements


Data


File system setup




Introducing a basic data wrangling work flow


Introducing the JSON file format


Opening and closing a file in Python using file I/O


The open function and file objects


File structure - best practices to store your data


Opening a file




Reading the contents of a file


Modules in Python


Parsing a JSON file using the json module




Exploring the contents of a data file


Extracting the core content of the data


Listing out all of the variables in the data




Modifying a dataset


Extracting data variables from the original dataset


Using a for loop to iterate over the data


Using a nested for loop to iterate over the data variables






Outputting the modified data to a new file


Specifying input and output file names in the Terminal


Specifying the filenames from the Terminal




Summary




Reading, Exploring, and Modifying Data - Part II


Logistical overview


File system setup


Data


Installing pandas




Understanding the CSV format


Introducing the CSV module


Using the CSV module to read CSV data


Using the CSV module to write CSV data


Using the pandas module to read and process data


Counting the total road length in 2011 revisited




Handling non-standard CSV encoding and dialect


Understanding XML


XML versus JSON




Using the XML module to parse XML data


XPath




Summary




Manipulating Text Data - An Introduction to Regular Expressions


Logistical overview


Data


File structure setup




Understanding the need for pattern recognition


Introducting regular expressions


Writing and using a regular expression


Special characters


Matching whitespace


Matching the start of string


Matching the end of a string


Matching a range of characters


Matching any one of several patterns


Matching a sequence instead of just one character


Putting patterns together


Extracting a pattern from a string


The regex split() function


Python regex documentation




Looking for patterns


Quantifying the existence of patterns


Creating a regular expression to match the street address


Counting the number of matches


Verifying the correctness of the matches




Extracting patterns


Outputting the data to a new file




Summary




Cleaning Numerical Data - An Introduction to R and RStudio


Logistical overview


Data


Directory structure


Installing R and RStudio




Introducing R and RStudio


Familiarizing yourself with RStudio


Running R commands


Setting the working directory


Reading data


The R dataframe


R vectors


Indexing R dataframes


Finding the 2011 total in R




Conducting basic outlier detection and removal


Handling NA values


Deleting missing values


Replacing missing values with a constant


Imputation of missing values




Variable names and contents


Summary




Simplifying Data Manipulation with dplyr


Logistical overview


Data


File system setup


Installing the dplyr and tibble packages




Introducing dplyr


Getting started with dplyr


Chaining operations together


Filtering the rows of a dataframe


Summarizing data by category


Rewriting code using dplyr


Summary




Getting Data from the Web


Logistical overview


Filesystem setup


Installing the requests module


Internet connection




Introducing APIs


Using Python to retrieve data from APIs


Using URL parameters to filter the results


Summary




Working with Large Datasets


Logistical overview 


System requirements


Data


File system setup


Installing MongoDB


Planning out your time


Cleaning up




Understanding computer memory


Understanding databases


Introducing MongoDB


Interfacing with MongoDB from Python


Summary



























Practical Data Wrangling
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Expert techniques for transforming your raw data into a valuable source for analytics
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Allan Visochek
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

BIRMINGHAM - MUMBAI






















Practical Data Wrangling


 
Copyright © 2017 Packt Publishing
All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval
               system, or transmitted in any form or by any means, without the prior written permission
               of the publisher, except in the case of brief quotations embedded in critical articles
               or reviews.
            
Every effort has been made in the preparation of this book to ensure the accuracy
               of the information presented. However, the information contained in this book is sold
               without warranty, either express or implied. Neither the author, nor Packt Publishing,
               and its dealers and distributors will be held liable for any damages caused or alleged
               to be caused directly or indirectly by this book.
            
Packt Publishing has endeavored to provide trademark information about all of the
               companies and products mentioned in this book by the appropriate use of capitals.
               However, Packt Publishing cannot guarantee the accuracy of this information.
            
 
First published: November 2017
 
Production reference: 1141117
Published by Packt Publishing Ltd.
Livery Place
35 Livery Street
Birmingham
B3 2PB, UK.
ISBN 978-1-78728-613-9
 
www.packtpub.com











Credits






Author
Allan Visochek


Copy Editors
Tasneem Fatehi
Safis Editing



Reviewer
Adriano Longo

Project Coordinator
Manthan Patel



Commissioning Editor
Amey Varangaonkar

Proofreader
Safis Editing



Acquisition Editor
Malaika Monteiro

Indexer
Pratik Shirodkar



Content Development Editor
Aaryaman Singh

Graphics
Tania Dutta




Technical EditorDinesh Chaudhary
                        

Production Coordinator
Shraddha Falebhai

















About the Author


Allan Visochek is a freelance web developer and data analyst in New Haven, Connecticut. Outside
                  of work, Allan has a deep interest in machine learning and artificial intelligence.
Allan thoroughly enjoys teaching and sharing knowledge. After graduating from the
                  Udacity Data Analyst Nanodegree program, he was contracted to Udacity for several
                  months as a forum mentor and project reviewer, offering guidance to students working
                  on data analysis projects. He has also written technical content for learntoprogram.tv.











About the Reviewer


Adriano Longo is a freelance data analyst based in the Netherlands with a passion for Neo4j's relationship-oriented
               data model.
            
He specializes in querying, processing, and modeling data with Cypher, R, Python,
               and SQL, and worked on climate prediction models at UEA's Climatic Research Unit before
               focusing on analytical solutions for the private sector.
            
Today, Adriano uses Neo4j and linkurious.js to explore the complex web of relationships
               nefarious actors use to obfuscate their abuse of environmental and financial regulations,
               making dirty secrets less transparent, one graph at a time.
            











www.PacktPub.com


For support files and downloads related to your book, please visit www.PacktPub.com. Did you know that Packt offers eBook versions of every book published, with PDF
               and ePub files available? You can upgrade to the eBook version at www.PacktPub.com and as a print book customer, you are entitled to a discount on the eBook copy. Get
               in touch with us at service@packtpub.com for more details. At www.PacktPub.com, you can also read a collection of free technical articles, sign up for a range of
               free newsletters and receive exclusive discounts and offers on Packt books and eBooks.
            

https://www.packtpub.com/mapt
Get the most in-demand software skills with Mapt. Mapt gives you full access to all
               Packt books and video courses, as well as industry-leading tools to help you plan
               your personal development and advance your career.
            











Why subscribe?



Fully searchable across every book published by Packt
Copy and paste, print, and bookmark content
On demand and accessible via a web browser












Customer Feedback


Thanks for purchasing this Packt book. At Packt, quality is at the heart of our editorial
               process. To help us improve, please leave us an honest review on this book's Amazon
               page at https://www.amazon.com/dp/1787286134. If you'd like to join our team of regular reviewers, you can email us at customerreviews@packtpub.com. We award our regular reviewers with free eBooks and videos in exchange for their
               valuable feedback. Help us be relentless in improving our products!
            











Preface


Data rarely comes prepared for its end use. For any particular project, there may
               be too much data, too little data, missing data, erroneous data, poorly structured
               data, or improperly formatted data. This book is about how to gather the data that
               is available and produce an output that is ready to be used. In each of the chapters,
               one or more demonstrations are used to show a new approach to data wrangling.
            











What this book covers


Chapter 1, Programming with Data, discusses the context of data wrangling and offers a high-level overview of the
               rest of the book's content.
            
Section 1: A generalized programming approach to data wrangling
Chapter 2, Introduction to Programming in Python, introduces programming using the Python programming language, which used in most
               of the chapters of the book.
            
Chapter 3, Reading, Exploring, and Modifying Data - Part I, is an overview of the steps for processing a data file and an introduction to JSON
               data.
            
Chapter 4, Reading, Exploring, and Modifying Data - Part II, continues from the previous chapter, extending to the CSV and XML data formats.
            
Chapter 5, Manipulating Text Data - An Introduction to Regular Expressions, is an introduction to regular expressions with the application of extracting street
               names from street addresses.
            
Section 2: A formulated approach to data wrangling
Chapter 6, Cleaning Numerical Data - An Introduction to R and RStudio, introduces R and RStudio with the application of cleaning numerical data.
            
Chapter 7, Simplifying Data Manipulation with dplyr, is an introduction to the dplyr package for R, which can be used to express multiple
               data processing steps elegantly and concisely.
            
Section 3: Advanced methods for retrieving and storing data
Chapter 8, Getting Data from the Web, is an introduction to APIs. This chapter shows how to extract data from APIs using
               Python.
            
Chapter 9, Working with Large Datasets, has an overview of the issues when working with large amounts of data and a very
               brief introduction to MongoDB.
            











What you need for this book


You will need a Python 3 installation on your computer, and you will need to be able
               to execute Python from your operating system's command-line interface. In addition,
               the following external Python modules will be used:
            

pandas (Chapters 4 and 5)
requests (Chapter 8)
PyMongo (Chapter 9)

For Chapter 9, you will need to install MongoDB and set up your own local MongoDB
               server.
               For Chapters 6 and 7, you will need RStudio and Rbase. Additionally, for Chapter 7,
               you will need the dplyr and tibble libraries.
            











Who this book is for


If you are a data scientist, data analyst, or statistician who wants to learn how
               to wrangle your data for analysis in the best possible manner, this book is for you.
               As this book covers both R and Python, some understanding of these will be beneficial.
            











Conventions


In this book, you will find a number of text styles that distinguish between different
               kinds of information. Here are some examples of these styles and an explanation of
               their meaning.
            
Code words in text, database table names, folder names, filenames, file extensions,
               pathnames, dummy URLs, user input, and Twitter handles are shown as follows: "The next lines of code read the link and assign it to the open function."
            
A block of code is set as follows:
fin = open('data/fake_weather_data.csv','r',newline='')reader = csv.reader(fin)for row in reader:    myData.append(row)
When we wish to draw your attention to a particular part of a code block, the relevant
               lines or items are set in bold:
            
new_scf_data = []for old_entry in scf_data["issues"]:    new_entry={}
Any command-line input or output is written as follows:
$ mongoimport --file fake_weather_data.csv
New terms and important words are shown in bold.
            
Words that you see on the screen, for example, in menus or dialog boxes, appear in
               the text like this: "In order to download new modules, we will go to Files | Settings | Project Name | Project Interpreter."
            
Warnings or important notes appear like this.
Tips and tricks appear like this.











Reader feedback


Feedback from our readers is always welcome. Let us know what you think about this
               book-what you liked or disliked. Reader feedback is important for us as it helps us
               develop titles that you will really get the most out of. To send us general feedback,
               simply email feedback@packtpub.com, and mention the book's title in the subject of your message. If there is a topic
               that you have expertise in and you are interested in either writing or contributing
               to a book, see our author guide at www.packtpub.com/authors.
            











Customer support


Now that you are the proud owner of a Packt book, we have a number of things to help
               you to get the most from your purchase.
            











Downloading the example code


You can download the example code files for this book from your account at http://www.packtpub.com. If you purchased this book elsewhere, you can visit http://www.packtpub.com/support and register to have the files emailed directly to you. You can download the code
               files by following these steps:
            

Log in or register to our website using your email address and password.
Hover the mouse pointer on the SUPPORT tab at the top.
               
Click on Code Downloads & Errata.
               
Enter the name of the book in the Search box.
               
Select the book for which you're looking to download the code files.
Choose from the drop-down menu where you purchased this book from.
Click on Code Download.
               

Once the file is downloaded, please make sure that you unzip or extract the folder
               using the latest version of:
            

WinRAR / 7-Zip for Windows
Zipeg / iZip / UnRarX for Mac
7-Zip / PeaZip for Linux

The code bundle for the book is also hosted on GitHub at https://github.com/PacktPublishing/Practical-Data-Wrangling. We also have other code bundles from our rich catalog of books and videos available
                  at https://github.com/PacktPublishing/. Check them out!











Downloading the color images of this book


We also provide you with a PDF file that has color images of the screenshots/diagrams
               used in this book. The color images will help you better understand the changes in
               the output. You can download this file from https://www.packtpub.com/sites/default/files/downloads/PracticalDataWrangling_ColorImages.pdf.
            











Errata


Although we have taken every care to ensure the accuracy of our content, mistakes
               do happen. If you find a mistake in one of our books-maybe a mistake in the text or
               the code-we would be grateful if you could report this to us. By doing so, you can
               save other readers from frustration and help us improve subsequent versions of this
               book. If you find any errata, please report them by visiting http://www.packtpub.com/submit-errata, selecting your book, clicking on the Errata Submission Form link, and entering the details of your errata. Once your errata are verified, your
               submission will be accepted and the errata will be uploaded to our website or added
               to any list of existing errata under the Errata section of that title. To view the
               previously submitted errata, go to https://www.packtpub.com/books/content/support and enter the name of the book in the search field. The required information will
               appear under the Errata section.
            











Piracy


Piracy of copyrighted material on the internet is an ongoing problem across all media.
               At Packt, we take the protection of our copyright and licenses very seriously. If
               you come across any illegal copies of our works in any form on the internet, please
               provide us with the location address or website name immediately so that we can pursue
               a remedy. Please contact us at copyright@packtpub.com with a link to the suspected pirated material. We appreciate your help in protecting
               our authors and our ability to bring you valuable content.
            











Questions


If you have a problem with any aspect of this book, you can contact us at questions@packtpub.com, and we will do our best to address the problem.
            











Programming with Data


It takes a lot of time and effort to deliver data in a format that is ready for its
               end use. Let's use an example of an online gaming site that wants to post the high
               score for each of its games every month. In order to make this data available, the
               site's developers would need to set up a database to keep data on all of the scores.
               In addition, they would need a system to retrieve the top scores every month from
               that database and display it to the end users.
            
For the users of our hypothetical gaming site, getting this month's high scores is
               fairly straightforward. This is because finding out what the high scores are is a
               rather general use case. A lot of people will want that specific data in that specific
               form, so it makes sense to develop a system to deliver the monthly high scores.
            
Unlike the users of our hypothetical gaming site, data programmers have very specialized
               use cases for the data that they work with. A data journalist following politics may
               want to visualize trends in government spending over the last few years. A machine
               learning engineer working in the medical industry may want to develop an algorithm
               to predict a patient's likelihood of returning to the hospital after a visit. A statistician
               working for the board of education may want to investigate the correlation between
               attendance and test scores. In the gaming site example, a data analyst may want to
               investigate how the distribution of scores changes based on the time of the day.
            
A short side note on terminology: 
Data science as an all encompassing term can be a bit elusive. As it is such a new field, the
               definition of a data scientist can change depending on who you ask. To be more general,
               the term data programmer will be used in this book to refer to anyone who will find data wrangling useful
               in their work.
            
Drawing insight from data requires that all the information that is needed is in a
               format that you can work with. Organizations that produce data (for example, governments,
               schools, hospitals, and web applications) can't anticipate the exact information that
               any given data programmer might need for their work. There are too many possible scenarios
               to make it worthwhile. Data is therefore generally made available in its raw format.
               Sometimes this is enough to work with, but usually it is not. Here are some common
               reasons:
            

There may be extra steps involved in getting the data
The information needed may be spread across multiple sources
Datasets may be too large to work with in their original format
There may be far more fields or information in a particular dataset than needed
Datasets may have misspellings, missing fields, mixed formats, incorrect entries,
                  outliers, and so on
               
Datasets may be structured or formatted in a way that is not compatible with a particular application

Due to this, it is often the responsibility of the data programmer to perform the
               following functions:
            

Discover and gather the data that is needed (getting data)
Merge data from different sources if necessary (merging data)
Fix flaws in the data entries (cleaning data)
Extract the necessary data and put it in the proper structure (shaping data)
Store it in the proper format for further use (storing data)

This perspective helps give some context to the relevance and importance of data wrangling.
               Data wrangling is sometimes seen as the grunt work of the data programmer, but it
               is nevertheless an integral part of drawing insights from data. This book will guide
               you through the various skill sets, most common tools, and best practices for data
               wrangling. In the following section, I will break down the tasks involved in data
               wrangling and provide a broad overview of the rest of the book. I will discuss the
               following steps in detail and provide some examples:
            

Getting data
Cleaning data
Merging and shaping data
Storing data

Following the high-level overview, I will briefly discuss Python and R, the tools
               used in this book to conduct data wrangling. 
            











Understanding data wrangling


Data wrangling, broadly speaking, is the process of gathering data in its raw form and molding it
               into a form that is suitable for its end use. Preparing data for its end use can branch
               out into a number of different tasks based on the exact use case. This can make it
               rather hard to pin down exactly what data wrangling entails, and formulate how to
               go about it. Nevertheless, there are a number of common steps in the data wrangling
               process, as outlined in the following subsections. The approach that I will take in this book is to introduce a number of tools and
               practices that are often involved in data wrangling. Each of the chapters will consist
               of one or more exercises and/or projects that will demonstrate the application of
               a particular tool or approach. 
            











Getting and reading data


The first step is to retrieve a dataset and open it with a program capable of manipulating
               the data. The simplest way of retrieving a dataset is to find a data file. Python and R can be used to open, read, modify, and save data stored in static files. In Chapter 3, Reading, Exploring, and Modifying Data - Part I, I will introduce the JSON data format and show how to use Python to read, write
               and modify JSON data. In Chapter 4, Reading, Exploring, and Modifying Data - Part II, I will walk through how to use Python to work with data files in the CSV and XML
                  data formats. In Chapter 6, Cleaning Numerical Data - An Introduction to R and Rstudio, I will introduce R and Rstudio, and show how to use R to read and manipulate data. 
Larger data sources are often made available through web interfaces called application programming interfaces (APIs). APIs allow you to retrieve specific bits of data from a larger collection of data.
               Web APIs can be great resources for data that is otherwise hard to get. In Chapter 8, Getting Data from the Web, I discuss APIs in detail and walk through the use of Python to extract data from
               APIs.
            
Another possible source of data is a database. I won't go into detail on the use of databases in this book, though in Chapter 9, Working with Large Datasets, I will show how to interact with a particular database using Python.
            
Databases are collections of data that are organized to optimize the quick retrieval of data.
               They can be particularly useful when we need to work incrementally on very large datasets,
               and of course may be a source of data.
            











Cleaning data


When working with data, you can generally expect to find human errors, missing entries,
               and numerical outliers. These types of errors usually need to be corrected, handled,
               or removed to prepare a dataset for analysis.
            
In Chapter 5, Manipulating Text Data - An Introduction to Regular Expressions, I will demonstrate how to use regular expressions, a tool to identify, extract, and modify patterns in text data. Chapter 5, Manipulating Text Data - An Introduction to Regular Expressions, includes a project to use regular expressions to extract street names.
            
In Chapter 6, Cleaning Numerical Data - An Introduction to R and Rstudio, I will demonstrate how to use RStudio to conduct two common tasks for cleaning numerical
               data: outlier detection and NA handling.
            











Shaping and structuring data


Preparing data for its end use often requires both structuring and organizing the
               data in the correct manner. 
            
To illustrate this, suppose you have a hierarchical dataset of city populations, as
               shown in Figure 01:

Figure 01: Hierarchical structure of the population of cities
If the goal is to create a histogram of city populations, the previous data format
                  would be hard to work with. Not only is the information of the city populations nested
                  within the data structure, but it is nested to varying degrees of depth. For the purposes of creating a histogram, it is better to represent the data as a
                  list of numbers, as shown in Figure 02:


Figure 02: List of populations for histogram visualization
Making structural changes like this for large datasets requires you to build programs
               that can extract the data from one format and put it into another format. Shaping
               data is an important part of data wrangling because it ensures that the data is compatible
               with its intended use. In Chapter 4, Reading, Exploring, and Modifying Data - Part II, I will walk through exercises to convert between data formats.
            
Changing the form of data does not necessarily need to involve changing its structure.
               Changing the form of a dataset can involve filtering the data entries, reducing the data by category, changing the order of
               the rows, and changing the way columns are set up.
            
All of the previously mentioned tasks are features of the dplyr package for R. In
               Chapter 7, Simplifying Data Manipulation with dplyr, I will show how to use dplyr to easily and intuitively manipulate data.
            











Storing data


The last step after manipulating a dataset is to store the data for future use. The
               easiest way to do this is to store the data in a static file. I show how to output
               the data to a static file in Python in Chapters 3, Reading, Exploring, and Modifying Data - Part I and Chapter 4, Reading, Analyzing, Modifying, and Writing Data - Part II. I show how to do this in R in Chapter 6, Cleaning Numerical Data - An Introduction to R and Rstudio.
            
When working with large datasets, it can be helpful to have a system that allows you
               to store and quickly retrieve large amounts of data when needed.
            
In addition to being a potential source of data, databases can be very useful in the
               process of data wrangling as a means of storing data locally. In Chapter 9, Working with Large Datasets, I will briefly demonstrate the use of databases to store data.
            











The tools for data wrangling


The most popular languages used for data wrangling are Python and R. I will use the
               remaining part of this chapter to introduce Python and R, and briefly discuss the
               differences between them.
            











Python


Python is a generalized programming language used for everything from web development (Django
               and Flask) to game development, and for scientific and numerical computation. See
               Python.org/about/apps/.
            
Python is really useful for data wrangling and scientific computing in general because
               it emphasizes simplicity, readability, and modularity.
            
To see this, take a look at a Python implementation of the hello world program, which
               prints the words Hello World!:
            
Print("Hello World!")
To do the same thing in Java, another popular programming language, we need something
               a bit more verbose:
            
System.out.println("Hello World!");
While this may not seem like a huge difference, extra research and consultation of
               documentation can add up, adding time to the data wrangling process.
            
Python also has built-in data structures that are relatively flexible in the way that they handle data.
            
Data structures are abstractions that help organize the data in a program for easy manipulation.
               We will explore the various data structures in Python and R in Chapter 2, Introduction to Programming in Python.
            
This contributes to Python's relative ease of use, particularly when working with
               data on a low level.
            
Finally, because of Python's modularity and popularity within the scientific community,
               there are a number of packages built around Python that can be quite useful to us in data wrangling.
            
Packages/modules/libraries are extensions of a language, or prewritten code in that language--typically built
               by individual users and the open source community--that add on functionality that
               is not built into the language. They can be imported in a program to include new tools. We will be leveraging packages throughout the book,
               both in R and Python, to extract, read, clean, shape, and store data.
            











R


R is both a programming language and an environment built specifically for statistical
               computing. This definition has been taken from the R website, r-project.org/about.html:
            
The term 'environment' is intended to characterize [R] as a fully planned and coherent
               system, rather than an incremental accretion of very specific and inflexible tools,
               as is frequently the case with other data analysis software.
            
In other words, one of the major differences between R and Python is that some of
               the most common functionalities for working with data--data handling and storage,
               visualization, statistical computation, and so on--come built in. A good example of
               this is linear modeling, a basic statistical method for modelling numerical data.
            
In R, linear modeling is a built-in functionality that is made very intuitive and
               straightforward, as we will see in Chapter 5, Manipulating Text Data - An Introduction to Regular Expressions. There are a number of ways to do linear modeling in Python, but they all require
               using external libraries and often doing extra work to get the data in the right format.
            
R also has a built-in data structure called a dataframe that can make manipulation
               of tabular data more intuitive. 
            
The big takeaway here is that there are benefits and trade-offs to both languages.
                  In general, being able to use the right tool for the job can save an immense amount
                  of time spent on data wrangling. It is therefore quite useful as a data programmer
                  to have a good working knowledge of each language and know when to use one or the
                  other. 











Summary


This chapter has provided an overall context for the purpose, subject matter, and
               programming languages in this book. In summary, data wrangling is important because
               data in its original raw format is rarely prepared for its end use to begin with.
               Data wrangling involves getting and reading data, cleaning data, merging and shaping data, and storing data. In this book, data wrangling will be conducted using the R and Python
               programming languages.
            
In the next chapter, I will dive into Python, with an introduction to Python programming. I will introduce basic
               principals of programming and features of the Python language that will be used throughout
               the rest of the book. If you are already familiar with Python, you may want to skip
               ahead or skim through the following chapter.
            
In Chapter 3, Reading, Exploring, and Modifying Data - Part I, and Chapter 4, Reading, Exploring, and Modifying Data - Part II, I will take a generalized programming approach to data wrangling. Chapter 3, Reading, Exploring, and Modifying Data - Part I, and Chapter 4, Reading, Exploring, and Modifying Data - Part II, will discuss how to use Python programming to read, write, and manipulate data using
               Python.
            











Introduction to Programming in Python


Programming is a powerful tool for manipulating data because it gives you the ability
               to build your own custom tools for tackling non standard problems. Much of the content in this book will make use of the Python programming language, so in this chapter,
               I will give a brief introduction to programming in python. The chapter will include
               the following topics:
            

External resources
Logistical overview
Running programs in Python
Data types, variables, and the Python shell
Compound statements
Making comments within programs
A programmer's resources

If you are familiar with Python and general programming principals, you can comfortably skip ahead or skim through this chapter.
            











External resources


Not everything can fit in to this book and some material is subject to change. I've
               made a number of resources available on the internet including the following:
            

Installation instructions and guidelines
Datasets for the exercises in the chapters
Code from the exercises in the chapters
Links to documentation, further reading, and other useful resources

All external resources are available in a shared Google Drive folder at https://goo.gl/8S58ra.
            











Logistical overview


Each of the chapters will begin with a logistical overview, detailing the projects involved in the chapter, installation requirements, the file system setup for the projects and other useful
               details. These initial Logistical Overview sections will help you to get set up to follow along with the chapter.  
            
In this chapter, I will walk through the creation of one Python program called hello_world.py. I will walk through the steps of creating the python program at the beginning of
               the chapter.
            
I will also introduce an interface for executing python commands directly called the
               terminal. Using the terminal, I will demonstrate several elementary programming concepts. 
            
The finished product for the python program, as well as a program containing all of
               the terminal commands is available in the code folder of the external resources at https://goo.gl/8S58ra.
            











Installation requirements


For this chapter, you will need the following:

Atom, an open source text editor created by GitHub
               
The latest version of Python 3

Links to installation instructions, and specific guidelines are made available in
               the Installation document in the external resources. Visit https://goo.gl/8S58ra and navigate to the Installation document. Within the installation document, the Atom and Python 3 installation links
               are under the Chapter 3 header.
            











Using other learning resources


In the Links and Further Reading document in the external resources, I've included links to some additional resources to learn Python. Some are a bit more
               interactive or more comprehensive then what I've provided here. There are plenty of
               great tutorials out there for Python, so if you do choose to go elsewhere for the
               basics, there are a couple of things to keep in mind:
            

The code in this book is written Python 3 and not Python 2. Python 2 and Python 3
                  aren't that different, but if you learn Python 2 first, be prepared for some minor
                  differences.
               
The content of this book will require you to run Python on your local machine, so
                  be sure to familiarize yourself with how to write and run code locally. Many online tutorials will have an interactive environment for you to work with in your browser; however,
                  these tutorials will not cover the process of writing and running code in your own
                  computer.
               












Python 2 versus Python 3


At the time of writing this, Python 2 and Python 3 are both actively used; Python
               2 is still taught in many tutorials, and a large number of forum discussions and blog
               posts on Python refer to Python 2. All this can make it confusing for beginners to
               decide which version to learn first. The reason for the confusion is that the adoption
               rate of Python 3 was relatively slow so Python 2 has been maintained longer than planned.
               However, Python 2 is set to be discontinued in 2020, which means that the core team
               that develops Python will no longer make updates to Python 2.
            
As Python 2 is on its way out, I will use Python 3 for this book. Despite a small
               number of strong opinions either way, Python 3 really isn't all that different. There
               are some minor syntactical and functional differences, but it's easy to learn them
               if you find yourself needing to use Python 2. (I've included some links in the reference
               material about these differences.)
            











Running programs in python


A programming language is a set of syntactical rules to express instructions to the computer. These instructions
               are written in a computer program, a set of code that is stored in a static file in the file system of a computer.
            
In this section, you will make a simple program that prints the words Hello World! to the output. Completing this exercise will give you an introduction to the process
               of creating and running programs in Python.
            











Using text editors to write and manage programs


Like any other practice, programming requires a certain set of tools.
The first of these is the text editor. Text editors for programming are not like ordinary word processors, which will often
               apply formatting to text and sometimes force users to save with certain file extensions.
               Programs need to be saved in a raw format in order to run properly. This can be done
               with plain text editors such as Notepad in Windows and gedit in Linux; however, there
               are a few reasons to use a specialized text editor to program:
            

Code and data tend to be spread across multiple directories, so keeping things organized
                  is an important part of programming. Specialized text editors will often include an
                  interface to open, close, move around, and rename files in a particular directory.
               
Programs have rigid syntax, so it can be hard to navigate, read, and write programs,
                     and easy to make mistakes if there is nothing to reinforce that syntax. Specialized
                     text editors will highlight the syntax of the programming language. They will also
                     often include shortcuts to fill in common words and syntactical elements.












Writing the hello world program


In the following steps, you will build your first python program:

 Create an empty folder somewhere in your file system called chapter2. Once you have created the chapter2 folder, open up Atom and add the folder to the file tree by selecting File | Add Project Folder as follows:
               



Navigate to the chapter2 folder that you just created and click OK.
               
You should see the chapter2 folder in the file tree, which is usually on the left panel. If the tree is not there,
                  you may need to show it by selecting View | Toggle Tree View:
               



Within the chapter2 folder, create a new file called hello_world.py by right-clicking on the chapter2 folder from the file tree and selecting New File:
               


In general, you can use the file tree panel as a direct interface to create, delete, open, move and manage
               files and folders within the base directory.
            

Open hello_world.py by clicking on the file in the file tree. A blank text editing tab should open up
                  for the file. Type the following text:
               

print("Hello World!")

Finally, save the file by selecting File | Save:
               


That's it! You've created your first program in Python! The next step is to execute
               the program.
            











Using the terminal to run programs


The Terminal is an interface that allows the user to write instructions directly to
               the OS. You can use the Terminal to run the Python program that you just created.
               When running programs in the Terminal, the Terminal will display status and debugging
               messages produced by the program, which can be very useful.
            
Each operating system has its own version of the Terminal. To get started, open up
               the Terminal program for your operating system. In most distributions of Linux it
               is called Terminal, in Windows it is called Command Prompt, and in macOS it is called shell. Many of the commands also differ between operating systems; however, the commands
               that we will use in this book will be mostly the same irrespective of operating system.
               You should see a prompt in the upper left-hand corner that looks something like this:
            

The first thing that you need to do to run your program is to navigate in the Terminal
               to the directory containing your program. Terminal commands take place within a specific
               folder in the computer's filesystem. Windows, Mac, and Linux all use the cd command, which stands for change directory and can be used to change the working directory. To change to the directory containing
               your hello_world.py file, you can use the following command:
            
$ cd <relative/path/to/directory>
A couple of things to note here:
When you see angle brackets in a Terminal command or a line of code, this often indicates
               a placeholder for something that is specific to your system or configuration. In the
               place of <relative/path/to/directory>, you will need to type the relative path to the folder containing your program (the hello_world.py file that you just created).
            
The $ symbol indicates that the command should be entered into the Terminal and should not
               be copied with the rest of the command. Not all Terminal programs use a dollar symbol
               to indicate a prompt, so don't worry if yours doesn't look exactly like this.
            
The relative path to the directory refers to the exact sequence of folders leading
               from the current directory to the destination directory. The current directory is
               often listed at the beginning of each prompt. I the current directory is not listed
               at the beginning of the prompt, you can find it by using the pwd command in Linux and Mac.
            
The following command is used in Linux and Mac in order to show the current working
               directory:
            
$ pwd
The following is the command used in Windows to show the current working directory:
$ cd
In the relative path, each subsequent folder is separated by a forward slash (/) in Linux and Mac, and a backward slash (\) in Windows. The following is what it looks like on my computer to find the current
               directory, change to my chapter2 folder, and then verify that I am in the correct location:
            

If it is easier, you can also do this incrementally by changing folders one directory
               at a time. If you accidentally move to the wrong directory, you can use .. to move up one directory in the filesystem:
            
$ cd .. 
This command will change the working directory to the parent folder of the previous
               working directory. Another useful command for navigating files is the ls command in Mac and Linux, and the dir command in Windows. This command will list all of the files and folders in the current
               directory.
            
In Mac and Linux, the following command is used to list the contents of the current directory:
            
$ ls
In Windows the following command is used to list the contents of the current directory:
$ dir











Running the Hello World program


In the following steps, I will walk through how to run a program using the terminal.
1. In your Terminal program, go ahead and change the working directory to the directory containing your hello_world.py program:
            
$ cd <relative/path/to/directory>
2. Verify that you are in the correct directory by using the appropriate command for
               your operating system. Once you have verified that you are in the correct directory,
               run the program by entering either of the following, depending on your setup:
            
$ python hello_world.py $ python3 hello_world.py
Some operating systems will include a Python2 installation as Python and a Python3 installation as python3. There may be additional variations of the python command that are used by default.
               See the installation instructions in the external resources for more details.
            

Once you run the program, you should see printed out in your Terminal the words Hello World!. If you did, congratulations! You successfully ran your first program in Python:
               


This is what running the Hello World program looks like on my machine. Yours might
               be slightly different, so use the previous instructions, and not this, as a reference
               to run your program.
            











What if it didn't work?


What if this didn't work? The first thing that you can do is to check over your syntax
               and see if you got something wrong. Step backward through your process to see where
               you might have made a mistake. You can look over the code that I have provided, both
               in the book and the external resources, but you shouldn't limit yourself to that.
               As a programmer, the internet is your best friend. If there is an error message, you
               can search for the error message and see if any forum threads come up. Chances are
               that somebody had the same problem you did. You can also see the notes at the end
               of this chapter about using documentation and online forums.
            
Debugging programs gets easier as you become more experienced, but making mistakes
               (and consequently receiving errors) is always a big part of programming no matter
               how experienced. It is very important to be comfortable investigating problems that come up, especially
               while starting out.
            











Data types, variables, and the Python shell


In the next few sections, I will use a tool called the Python shell, which will help
               you get more comfortable using Python. The Python shell is a tool that allows the
               user to enter in Python commands, which get run instantaneously. This makes the Python
               shell a great place to quickly and easily experiment with small bits of code or new
               functionality in Python.
            
There is no easy way of saving the code that is entered in the Python shell, so it
               is best to use it only for experimentation.
            
You can run the Python shell from a Terminal. To do this, open a Terminal and, from
               any directory, enter one of the following depending on your configuration:
            
$ Python$ python3
You should see a new command prompt within the Terminal that looks something like
               this:
            

In Python, a single instruction is called a simple statement. For now, each individual line of code represents a simple statement. The Python
               shell will accept one line of code at a time. The following is an example of a simple
               statement that adds two numbers:
            
>> 1+1
Notice the >> at the beginning of our command. The >> symbol indicates that the line of code should be entered into the Python shell. The >> symbol should not be copied over with the rest of the code. You can run this statement
               by typing it into the shell and pressing Enter.
            
The Python shell will print out the result of every statement that you write. When
               you write the previous statement in your Python shell and press Enter, you should see the result of 2 printed just preceding it. The number 2 is an example of a value in Python. Values are like the nouns of programming languages.
               The + symbol is an example of an operator. Operators are like the verbs of programming languages,
               and they express what you would like to do with a value.
            











Numbers - integers and floats


More specifically, the number 2 is an example of a value with an int data type or an integer value. An integer value can be any positive number, negative
               number, or zero without a trailing decimal point. A float value is any number with
               a trailing decimal point. To create a float value, you can simply write a decimal
               point after the number such as 1. or 1.5.
            











Why integers? 


It may seem peculiar at first to distinguish between int and float as fundamentally different data types. The first reason to make the distinction is
               that computers store these numbers differently and, for the sake of computer programming,
               there are a couple of scenarios in which it makes more sense for a programming language
               to use one or the other. For example, as we will see later in this chapter, using
               a float to index an array will cause an error and thus prevent the program from running.
            
If you find yourself using Python 2, you may notice that the interpreter treats arithmetic
               differently for integers than it does for floats, rounding the results, which can
               lead to some unexpected errors.
            
You can add, divide, and multiply in a single statement, using the same rules you
               would expect in a scientific calculator. The order of operations is as follows:
            

Expressions inside parentheses.
Exponents.
Division.
Multiplication.
Addition and subtraction.

The following commands are some examples of arithmetic in Python:
>> 2 * 3>> 4 + 5 / 6>> (4 + 5) / 6>> ( ( 1 * 2 ) / 3 / 4 ) + 5 - (6 / 5)
Exponents in Python are denoted using two consecutive multiplication ** symbols. Careful not to use the ^ symbol for exponentiation in Python. The following is an example of arithmetic in
               python:
            
>> 3 ** 2
Implicit conversion: You might have noticed that all of the previous operations use integers, but sometimes
               yield floats as results. This is because the Python interpreter changes the data type
               of the values just before the operation so that you get a result that makes intuitive
               sense. This is called implicit conversion and it is one of the things that makes Python so easy to use and beginner friendly.
               However, implicit conversion doesn't always happen, so it is important to keep track
               of the data types that you are using throughout your program.
            











Strings


A value with a string data type is simply a collection of characters. You've already
               seen a string data type in use from the hello world program that you created earlier, namely, Hello World!. String values are created in Python by writing the contents of a string inside quotation
               marks:
            
>> "your string here"
Two or more strings can be merged together or concatenated using the + operator:
            
>> "string 1 " + "string 2"
Python does not distinguish between single quotes and double quotes; however, the
               opening quotes must be the same as the closing quotes ("This will not work').
            
I will cover string operations in detail in Chapter 5, Manipulating Text Data - An Introduction to Regular Expressions.
            











Booleans


The Boolean data type has two, and only two, possible values, namely, True and False. In Python, you can produce a Boolean value by writing either True or False, starting with a capital T or F respectively:
            
>> True>> False
Boolean values can be combined using bitwise operators:

The and operator yields True if the value on the left and the value on the right are both True
The or operator yields True if at least one of the items on the left or right is True

The following are some examples using bitwise operators:
            
>> True and True>> True and False>> True or False>> False or False
Logical operators can be used to produce Boolean values from other data types by comparing
               values:
            

The == operator yields True if the values on either side are equal
               
The > operator yields True if value to the left is greater than the value to the right
               
The < operator yields True if the value to the right is greater than the value to the left
               

The following are some examples using logical operators:
>> 1 == 2>> 1 == 1>> 1 < 2>> 1 < 0>> 1 > 2>> 2 > 1>> "abc" == "abc">> "abc" == "cba"
Boolean values are good to make decisions within computer programs. You will see this
               when I introduce if statements later in the chapter. They are also good to store simple yes/no data entries, such
               as whether a particular individual lives in New York or whether a transaction has
               been completed.
            











The print function


I've been taking it for granted so far that the Python shell automatically prints
               the result of any statement that is entered. However, if you want to see the result
               of a particular operation inside a Python program, you will need to explicitly print
               it using the print() function. To use the print() function, you can type print() with the value that you would like to print inside parentheses.
            
Here are some examples using the print() function:
            
or example:>> print(0)>> print(1+1)>> print('abc')>> print("abc" == "cba")
The syntax used with the print function may seem a bit strange right now, but it will
               become more clear when I introduce functions later in the chapter. 
            
There are two areas that the print() function comes in handy. The first of these is to test and debug programs. In order
               to see whether your program is working properly, or why it is not working properly,
               it is helpful to look inside the program while it is running. You can do this by placing print() functions in the program where you want to investigate what is happening. To give a really basic
               example, if a program that outputs a number produces the wrong number, one approach
               is to print the number at various stages of the program to identify where things go
               wrong. 
            
The second use of print() functions is to track the progress or status of a program. Processing large datasets
               can often take a really long time, so it can be helpful to have some sense of how
               far along the program is and how long it might take to finish. For example, when processing
               a large dataset row by row, it can be helpful to print out the fraction of rows that
               have been processed.
            











Variables


In order to make effective programs, you will need to store values that you can access
               and modify across multiple lines of code. In Python, you can store a value using a variable.
               A variable is a sequence of characters that is made to represent some value in the
               program. To create a variable, you can use the assignment (=) operator. The assignment operator takes the value to the right and assigns it to
               the variable name on the left. The following statements will create a variable called myVariable and print it out:
            
>> myVariable = 1>> print(myVariable)
It can be easy when starting out to confuse the assignment = operator with the logical equal "==" operator. Make a mental note that a single = is the assignment operator and a double '==' is the logical equal operator.
            
After a variable is created, using the name of a variable in a statement is the same
               as using the value that the variable contains. The following are some examples of
               statements that use variables:
            
>> myVariable = 4>> print(myVariable+2)>> myVariable = "abc"+"cba">> print(myVariable+"abc")>> myVariable = True>> print(myVariable and True)
Dynamic typing: In many languages, the value assigned to a variable needs to have a specific data
               type that is specified when the variable is created. However, this is not the case
               in Python. A value with any data type can be assigned to any variable. This is referred
               to as dynamic typing.
            
You can also change a variable relative to its own value. This is sometimes called incrementing (in the case of addition) or decrementing (in the case of subtraction):
            
>> myVariable = 0>> myVariable = myVariable + 5>> print(myVariable)
There is a shorthand for changing a variable based on its own value that can be used
               for addition, subtraction, multiplication and division. The following examples demonstrate
               how changing the value of a variable can be expressed more concisely. First, the following
               creates a variable and sets it to 0:
            
>> myVariable = 0.











Adding to a variable


To increase the value of a variable, you can use the += symbol as follows:
            
>> myVariable += 5.>> print(myVariable)
The value of myVariable is now 5.
            











Subtracting from a variable


To subtract from a variable, you can use the -= symbol as follows:
            
>> myVariable -= 2.>> print(myVariable)
The value of myVariable is now 3.
            











Multiplication


To multiply a variable by a value, you can use the *= symbol as follows:
            
>> myVariable *= 6.>> print(myVariable)
The value of myVariable is now 18.
            











Division


To divide a variable by a value, you can use the /= symbol as follows:
>> myVariable /= 3.>> print(myVariable)
The value of myVariable is now 6. 
            











Naming variables


Using the right name for a variable is important. There are some conventions and some
               syntactical rules to name variables properly. Variables have to be one word, they
               have to start with a letter or underscore, and all remaining characters must be a
               letter, a number, or an underscore. If these rules are not followed, the program will
               produce an error.
            
There are two best practices to take into account when choosing a variable name. First,
               the variable name should reflect its function in the program. This makes it easier
               to keep track of how the program functions. Second, if the variable name consists
               of several words, these should be separated using either camel case or snail case
               to make it easier to read.
            
In camel case, the first word starts with a lowercase letter, while all the following
               words start with an uppercase letter. In snail case, each word is lowercase and is
               separated by an underscore. It is best practice to use either one or the other for
               a given program and stick with it, though this can get tricky, especially if multiple
               people are working on the same project.
            
Variables are a key part of what makes programming an effective means of expression.
               Storing and labeling data can make it easier to reference and keep track of, but it
               also makes it possible to build more sophisticated operations. This will become clear
               when I introduce compound statements later in this chapter.
            











Arrays (lists, if you ask Python)


An array is an ordered collection of values. Each item in an array is called an element. In Python, there can be an indefinite number of elements in an array. Python has
               a special name for its implementation of arrays, called a list. With regard to Python, I will use both words to refer to the same thing.
            
The following syntax can be used to create an array:
<arrayName>=[<element1>,<element2>,<element3>,...]
Inside square brackets, each element in the array is listed, separated by commas:
>> myArray = ["foo","bar","sup?","yo!"]>> print(myArray)
The elements of an array can be accessed by their relative position, or index, in
               the array. To access an element of an array, you can use the following syntax:
            
>> <arrayName>[<index>]
For example:
>> print(myArray[0])>> thirdElement = myArray[2]>> print(thirdElement)
You may have noticed that the index of the third element of the array is 2, and not 3. This is because indexing starts with zero in Python and many other languages. This
               can be a bit confusing when starting out. When indexing arrays, be sure to access
               the nth element of an array using the number, n-1. Also notice that the index of the
               array has an integer data type. If you try to access an array with a float value,
               it will cause an error even if it represents an integer number (that is, 1.0).
            
You can also set the value of a particular element of an array by assigning a value
               to its index. The following line will set the first element of myArray to the string, I'm a new value:
            
>> myArray[0] = "I'm a new value">> print myArray[0]
You can only access or set a value of an array if the index belongs to the array.
               The following two lines will generate an error, because the array only has four elements,
               so its maximum index is three (for the fourth element):
            
>> myArray[6]>> myArray[4]
Arrays are useful to represent grouped collections of data like a row in a spreadsheet.
               By keeping track of a set of data items in an ordered list, it is possible to easily
               store and retrieve items from a grouped collection of data.
            











Dictionaries 


A dictionary, like an array, is a collection of items; however, the items in a dictionary are
               referenced by strings called keys, rather than their order in a list. Another way to think of a dictionary is as a
               collection of key-value pairs, where the keys are used to retrieve the values.
            
To create a dictionary, use the following syntax where <key1>, <key2> are strings and value1, value2 are any values:
            
{<key1>:<value1>,<key2>:<value2>,<key3>:<value3>}
Notice that a dictionary has curly brackets whereas an array has square brackets.
The following line will create a dictionary called d with two key-value pairs:
            
>> d = {"some_number": 1, "sup?": "yo!"}>> print(d)
You can access a specific value of a dictionary using the following syntax:
<dictionary name>[<key>]
For example:
>> print(d["sup?"])>> print(d["some_number"])
You can also set the value of a key by assigning a value to that key, as the following
               demonstrates:
            
>> d["some_number"] = 5>> print(d["some_number"])
If you assign a value to a key that does not yet exist in a particular dictionary,
               the key will be added to the dictionary:
            
>> d["new_key"] = "I'm a new value">> print(d["new_key"])
On an intuitive level, the big advantage of Python dictionaries comes from the ability
               to store and reference items by key. It is easier to remember a name than a number.
               If, for example, you are working with a spreadsheet that has 100 columns, it is much
               more convenient to retrieve an entry by its column header than its position.
            











Compound statements


So far, each line of code that you have written gets executed exactly once and immediately
               after it is written. Compound statements are Python structures that allow you to control
               when and how certain pieces of code get executed. Compound statements significantly
               increase your expressiveness as a programmer. In other words, they allow you to do
               more with less code. Before introducing a few compound statements, it will be helpful
               to go over the syntactical structure.
            











Compound statement syntax and indentation level


A compound statement consists of two parts. The first part, the clause header, is a line containing the type of statement and some other information specific to
               the statement. The clause header always starts with the type of clause and ends with
               a colon. The following is the syntax of a clause header:
            
<clause type> <clause body>:
(Note that this figure and the next two are just to demonstrate the syntactical structure
                  and do not represent functional code).
The second part is called the suite in the documentation, but it is also called a code block, which is the term I will use in this book. The code block is a series of additional
               statements that are controlled by the compound statement. Each statement belonging
               to the code block should have four additional spaces before, as compared to the clause
               header. The additional four spaces are called a level of indentation:
            
<clause header>:    <I'm a line of code in the code block...>    <another line in the code block...>    <yet another line of code, also in the code block...><I'm a line of code, but I'm not in the code block...>
Tabs versus spaces: Formally, a level of indentation refers to the exact number of
               tabs and spaces that come before a particular statement. The Python interpreter will
               recognize any number of tabs and/or spaces as an indentation level so long as all
               the statements in a code block share the same number and order of tabs and spaces.
               Of course, it is never a good idea to mix tabs and spaces as this can get confusing
               fast. However, some programmers do prefer to use tabs rather than spaces to indicate
               indentation level. In this book, I will strictly use four spaces for each indentation
               level as that is the default for the Atom text editor.
            
There can be additional compound statements within the code block of another compound
               statement, so there are usually multiple levels of indentation used in a Python program:
            
<Clause header>:    <I'm a line of code in the code block...>    <another line in the code block...>    <yet another line of code, also in the code block...>    <Clause Header #2>:        <code block #2><I'm a line of code, but I'm not in the code block...>
In the previous example, Clause header #2 and code block #2 represent a compound statement that is placed within the first compound statement.
            
The Atom text editor, and many others like it, makes it quite easy to keep track of
               the indentation level when working with Python (.py) files. When the Tab key is pressed, the cursor will snap forward to a number of spaces that is a multiple
               of four. When the Backspace key is pressed, the cursor will go back four spaces. (Note that for this to work,
               the file has to be named with a .py extension.)
            
An easy way to experiment with this is by making a file called tabs.py in your chapter2 folder and pressing Tab, spacebar, and Backspace multiple times. Note that the formatting will not work until the file is saved as
               a .py file. Here is an example of using tabs and spaces in a Python file:
            

I will be using a text editor to write the remainder of the examples. If you are following
               along with the code, I recommend that you write the following examples in the text
               editor and run it from the terminal, as you did in the beginning of the chapter.
            











For statements and iterables


A for statement is a compound statement that allows you to run a code block repeatedly a
               fixed number of times. For loops go hand in hand with Python structures called iterables. An iterable contains or references a sequence of items in a fixed order. Both arrays
               and strings are examples of iterables in Python.
            
The clause header of a for statement contains a variable name and an iterable, and
               follows the following syntax:
            
for <variable name> in <iterable>:    <code block>
Each time the code block of a for statement is run, Python will create the variable
               named in the clause header and assign to it the value of the next item in the iterable.
               The for statement ends when there are no more items left in the iterable. In this
               way, it is possible to perform the same operation for each item in an iterable.
            
To give a concrete example, the following program will create an array called colors and print out each color in the array one by one:
            
colors = ['red','orange','blue']for color in colors:    print(color) 
This is the equivalent of writing the following:
colors = ['red','orange','blue']color = colors[0]print colorcolor = colors[1]print colorcolor = colors[2] 
It is easy to see why this is useful. If you need to perform an operation on each
               element of an array that has 1,000 entries, a for loop can save you at least 2,000 lines of code. Repetitive code takes more time to
               write, but it also makes your program harder to read, harder to update, and more prone
               to error.
            
Most of the tasks that clean and modify data involve performing some kind operation
               on each of the entries in a dataset. Making effective use of for statements is therefore
               a key part of data wrangling.
            











If statements


An if statement is a compound statement that allows you to run a block of code conditionally.
               This means that if a certain condition is met, the code will run; otherwise, it will
               not. If statements have the following syntax:
            
if <booleanValue>:    <code block>
The Boolean value in the clause header is the condition of the if statement. If the
               Boolean value is True, then the code block is run. If the Boolean value is False, then the code block is not run. In the following example, the program will print
               "Nice Weather!" if the value of the isSunny variable is True:
            
isSunny = Trueif isSunny:    print("Nice Weather!")
In the next example, the value of isSunny is changed to False, so nothing will happen:
            
isSunny = Falseif isSunny:>    print("Nice Weather!")











Else and elif clauses


The combination of a single clause header and a code block is called a clause. Some compound statements, including the if statement, are able to have multiple clauses.
            
The elif clause (short for else if) follows directly after the initial if clause. If the condition of the if clause is not met, the elif clause will check to see whether a second condition is met, and conditionally run
               another block of code. The following program uses an elif clause to check whether it is cloudy when it is not sunny:
            
isSunny = FalseisCloudy = Trueif isSunny:    print('Nice Weather!')elif isCloudy:    print('Might Rain Soon!')
An if statement must start with an if clause, but there can be an indefinite number of elif clauses chained one after the other. If the condition of the if clause is met, the first block of code will run. If the condition of the next elif clause is met, the second code block will run. If the condition of the next elif clause is met, the second code block will run, and so on.
            
The following example demonstrates how this is composed syntactically:
if <first condition>:    <first code block>elif <second condition>:    <second code block>elif <third condition>:    <third code block>....
 An else clause can be written at the end of an if statement. If none of the conditions for
               any of the previous clauses are met, the code block of the else clause will run. The
               following program will print out Not much going on with the weather right now, because the conditions for all of the previous clauses in the if statement are false:
            
isSunny=FalseisCloudy=FalseisRaining=Falseif isSunny:    print("Nice Weather!")elif isCloudy:    print("Might rain soon!")elif isRaining:        print("I should bring my umbrella!")else:    print("Not much going on with the weather right now...")   

               Try experimenting with different combinations of true and false for the Boolean variables
               that are created at the beginning of the previous program.
            











Functions


A function is a labeled block of code that can be used at any point throughout the
               program. A function in Python follows the following syntax:
            
def <nameOfFunction>(<parameters>):    <code block>
Notice the parentheses following the name of the function. Inside the parentheses,
               it is possible to specify certain variables called parameters or arguments. I will get back to this shortly, but for now, you can ignore the <parameters> bit as it is optional. The following program creates a simple function that will print
               the words Nice Weather! to the Terminal:
            
def reactToTheWeather():    print("Nice Weather!")
If you run the previous example, you will notice that nothing in particular happens.
               This is because the code block of a function is only executed if and when you tell
               the program to do so. When the code block of a function is used by the program, it
               is called executing or calling the function. To call a function, simply write the
               name of the function, followed by an open and closed parentheses. In the following
               example, I've modified the nice_weather program to call the reactToTheWeather function three times:
            
def reactToTheWeather():    print("Nice Weather!")reactToTheWeather()reactToTheWeather()reactToTheWeather()
After running the previous program, you should now see the words Nice Weather! printed to the Terminal three times:
            

It is possible, and often quite useful, to write compound statements within other
               compound statements. In the following example, I have placed an if statement inside
               the reactToTheWeather function:
            
def reactToTheWeather():    isSunny = True    if isSunny:        print("Nice Weather!")reactToTheWeather()











Passing arguments to a function


If you look at the previous example, you might notice that the if statement inside
               the function doesn't really do much. According to the function, the value of the isSunny variable is always True. Ideally, the reactToTheWeather function should be able to change its behavior based on some outside information,
               specifically whether or not it is sunny.
            
When calling a function, it is possible to pass in values called arguments or parameters from
               outside the function. The names of the arguments that should be made available to
               the function are written using the following syntax:
            
def <function name>(<argument1>,<argument2>,<argument3>):    <code block><function name>(<value1>,<value2>,<value3>)
When the function is called, the values for each of the arguments are written inside
               the parentheses, separated by commas. The arguments are then made available to the
               code block of a function as variables with the names specified in the clause header.
            
The following is an example to demonstrate how this works in practice. In the following
               example, the reactToTheWeather function is changed to accept one argument called isSunny. When the reactToTheWeather function is called, the value for the isSunny argument is passed in. When the code block runs, the isSunny variable takes on the value that was passed in when the function was called:
            
def reactToTheWeather(isSunny):    if isSunny:        print("Nice Weather!")    else:        print("No sun today!")reactToTheWeather(True)reactToTheWeather(False)











Returning values from a function


In addition to passing in information when a function is executed, it is also possible
               to retain information afterward using the return statement. A return statement is simply the word, return, followed by the value to be returned, and is written at the end of the code block:
            
def myFunction():    <some code>    return <return value>    
The return value is captured outside of the function by assigning the function call
               to a variable. In the following example, I've modified the code slightly to print
               the reaction to the weather outside of the function:
            
def reactToTheWeather(isSunny):    if isSunny:        return "Nice Weather!"    else:        return "No sun today!"reaction1 = reactToTheWeather(True)print(reaction1)reaction2 = reactToTheWeather(True)print(reaction1)











Making annotations within programs


A comment or annotation is a piece of text inside a program that has no effect on the program. Comments are
               used to make notes about the code itself for those reading it. A comment is made simply
               by writing some text after the # character:
            
# I'm a comment, I have no impact on the function of the program# but provide useful information about the code.# This code prints the words 'Hello World!' to the output...print('Hello World!')
Annotations are useful for two reasons. First, annotations can help others understand
               what your code does and how it functions. However, even if you don't need to collaborate
               or share your work, annotations are very helpful in helping you mentally organize
               your own work. This is especially useful if you end up needing to reuse a piece of
               code weeks or months after writing it.
            











A programmer's resources


The art of programming is the art of constantly learning. Every new framework, paradigm,
               and programming challenge can present a need to learn something new. While there's
               no one formula for how to keep up to date with trends and tackle new problems, two
               resources in particular will be instrumental to being an effective programmer.
            











Documentation


Whenever starting out with a new language or package, the first thing to look for
               is the documentation. Good documentation usually contains information on how to get
               started, examples and use cases, and most importantly, references that will tell you
               how to use the language/package/tool. You can often find the documentation you are looking for by searching <name of language or package> documentation. Documentation is often the first line of defense in learning how to do what you
               want with a certain programming tool. The documentation for Python, for example, can
               be found at https://docs.Python.org.
            











Online forums and mailing lists


Programmers can be quite generous in offering help and support to others starting
               out; however, be sure to be polite and respectful. When debugging an error, trying
               to figure out how to go about doing something: or trying to understand how a particular
               feature works, online forums can be quite helpful.
            
A good example of an online forum is Stack Overflow, where users can post questions to a large community of developers of varying levels
               of experience. In addition, the developers of a given package will often have a mailing list where they will offer help to users trying to use the package. This is
               a good place to go if, for example, it is unclear from the documentation how to do
               exactly what you want.
            
A general rule of thumb when looking for help from others is that if you are being
               inefficient with other people's time, you probably aren't using your own time that
               well either. Before seeking help, it's good practice to do what you can to try to
               understand and solve the problem on your own. Make sure you look through your code
               thoroughly to see if you can identify an error; if it's not too hard, consult the
               documentation to look for your solution and search for previous posts that may answer
               your question. When looking for help, be as specific as possible about the problem
               you are trying to solve or the question that you have, and follow the guidelines of
               whatever forum or mailing list you are using (they are probably similar to what I've
               mentioned earlier).
            











 Summary


In this chapter, we went through the basics of Python programming, but we've also started to cover
               conceptually some of the fundamentals to create, store, and work with data. If you've
               made it this far, give yourself a pat on the back. You've successfully created your
               first program and learned the syntax of the Python programming language.
            
In the next chapter, you will take some of these principals to the next level to continue
               your data wrangling journey. I will talk first about modules, which allow you to add
               previously written code with additional functionality to our program. You will use
               modules to read from and write to different files, or conduct file I/O. I will cover
               the usage of for statements to iterate through the entries of a dataset, and basic methods to analyze and modify
               the data. Finally, I will cover functions that allow us to create blocks of code that
               we can run several times.
            











Reading, Exploring, and Modifying Data - Part I


Even if you are new to programming, opening, modifying and saving files within programs
               should be a relatively familiar process. You have likely opened and edited a document
               with a word processor or entered data into an Excel spread sheet.
            
Like a computer program, a dataset can be represented using a text file with a specific
                  syntactical structure. The text in a data file specifies both the information contained
                  in the data and the structure in which that information is placed. In a sense, writing
                  a program to process data files is a similar to the process of editing a document
                  or a spreadsheet. First, the content of a file is opened, observed, and modified,
                  and then the result is saved.
Another general strategy to store and retrieve digital data is to use a database. Databases are organized collections of
               data that allow for efficient storage, retrieval, and modification. I will revisit databases in Chapter 9, Working with Large Datasets.
The major difference between processing a data file in Python and editing a spreadsheet
                  in Excel is that programming tools give you much more fine tuned control over the
                  way in which the information is processed. In this way, programming gives you the
                  flexibility to build custom tools for specific tasks as you need them.
Approaches to programming range from highly specific to highly expressive. In the context of data wrangling, this means that data processing tasks that are
               relatively unusual or complicated may require a more customized set of programming
               instructions (highly specific). Here are just a few examples of tasks that may require a more specific approach:

Processing significantly large amounts of data
Processing data in a hierarchical format
Processing obscure data formats
Restructuring data or converting between formats
Extracting information from a body of text or data without well defined structure

By contrast, data processing tasks that are relatively routine or simple may be best
               be approached with an existing set of programming tools that can express a sequence
               of actions more concisely (highly expressive). Here are some examples of tasks that may benefit from a more expressive approach:
            

Filtering out data entries based on the values that they contain.
               
Selecting and extracting certain variables
Aggregating the values of particular variables
Creating new variables based off of existing ones
               

A data entry is an individual observation in a dataset, also called a record, document or row.
               A variable, also called an attribute or column refers to a data variable in the dataset.
            
Because data challenges come in all shapes and sizes, it helps to have to have a sense
               for both ends of the spectrum so that you can choose the best tool for the job. I will start in this chapter with a rather low level (specific) overview of the steps involved in processing a data file programmatically. This
                  chapter will include the following sections:

External resources
Logistical overview
Introducing a basic data wrangling work flow
Introducing the JSON file format
Opening and closing a file in Python using file I/O
Reading the contents of a file












External resources


Not everything can fit in to this book and some material is subject to change. I've
               made a number of resources available on the internet including the following:
            

Installation instructions and guidelines
Datasets for the exercises in the chapters
Code from the exercises in the chapters
Links to documentation, further reading, and other useful resources

All external resources are available in a shared google drive folder at https://goo.gl/8S58ra.
            











Logistical overview


In this chapter, I will do a demonstration of a single program called process_data.py. The process_data.py program will read a JSON file containing the data for this chapter, extract some
               of the variables from the data and output a new dataset to an output JSON file.
            
At the end of the chapter, I will demonstrate an alternative version of process_data.py called process_data2.py that allows for external specification of the input and output filenames.
            
The finished product for all of the code is available in the code folder of the external
               resources. All external resources are available at the following link: https://goo.gl/8S58ra.
            











Installation requirements


For this chapter, you will need the following:

Atom, an open source text editor created by GitHub
               
The latest version of Python 3

Links and guidelines for all of the installation requirements are made available in
               the Installation a part of the reference material. Visit https://goo.gl/8S58ra and find the Atom and Python 3 headlines for installation links and instructions.
            











Data


In this chapter, I will be using a dataset from Seeclickfix, a platform to report non-emergency issues to local governments. The dataset contains
               a series of data entries that represent issue reports that were made using the Seeclickfix
               platform. The dataset for this chapter is available for download from the data folder of the external resources.
            











File system setup


To follow along with the demonstrations in this chapter, you should create a project
               folder to contain the Python scripts called ch3. The ch3 folder should contain the code for this chapter, along with a folder to contain the
               data, called data. The data folder should contain the scf_data.json file used in this chapter. The following outlines the directory structure used:
            
ch3--> process_data.py--> process_data2.py--> data/----> scf_data.json











Introducing a basic data wrangling work flow


This chapter is about understanding the components of a program that processes data.
               As mentioned in the introduction, the approach taken here will be to process data
               on a basic level. A particular emphasis is placed on opening, reading and writing
               data in this chapter. Later chapters will focus more on exploration and modification
               of data.
            
The following is a basic work flow for data wrangling that applies to processing data
               files. Data wrangling is not necessarily a linear process, but these steps will help
               to give a frame of reference for the range of tools and approaches that will be demonstrated
               in this chapter and throughout the rest of the book.
            

Open the file containing the input data from within the program:
                  
                  
In order for a program to gain access to the data in a particular file, the program
                        first needs to interact with the computer's file system to open the file. This is
                        referred to as file I/O and Python has built-in support to make this process relatively
                        simple.
                     




Read the data into the program:
                  
                  
Once the file is open, the next step is to read the raw text in the data file into
                        the program's memory and convert the data to a programmatic data structure. Steps
                        1 and 2 are often combined though it is helpful to think of them separately regardless.
                     




Explore the contents of the file:
                  
                  
It is usually necessary to do some exploration of the data in order to know what needs
                        to be cleaned, extracted, or changed and how to do this. This is also sometimes called
                        auditing the data.
                     




Modify the contents of the file:
                  
                  
The data should be cleaned, processed, and/or shaped so that the output is ready for
                        its end use.
                     




Output the modified data to a new file:
                  
                  
The processed data should output to a new file to store for further analysis or data
                        wrangling.
                     














Introducing the JSON file format


If you have worked with an Excel spreadsheet, you are already familiar with one type
               of data file. A spreadsheet is an example of data with a tabular format. In a tabular dataset, the entries are arranged as a series of rows and columns,
               where each column represents a data variable and each row represents a data entry.
               In Chapter 4, Reading, Exploring, and Modifying Data - Part II, you will work with CSV files, a form of tabular data.
            
The dataset for this chapter uses the JSON file format. JSON is an example of a hierarchical data format. Hierarchical data is more free-form than tabular data, though usually
                  a JSON dataset will contain a series of data entries with a fixed structure.
JSON has two structures that have the same form as the Python dictionary and the Python
               array. The first of these structures is a collection of key value pairs, while the
               other is a collection of ordered values. Each of the values can be either an individual
               data element or an additional nested structure. This allows for an indefinitely nested
               set of structures and data elements. The following is a section of the JSON dataset
               used with this chapter:
            

You can see from the screenshot that JSON is not only structurally similar to python
               but also syntactically quite similar. Because the structure of JSON corresponds to
               Python dictionaries and lists, it is simple and intuitive to represent a JSON file
               in Python. In the remainder of the chapter, I will walk through some basic steps for
               opening, reading and processing JSON data in python.
            











Opening and closing a file in Python using file I/O


In order to gain access to a file, a computer program needs to interact with the operating system; the process is called file I/O. File I/O is the way in which a programming language is able to open, read from,
                  write to, and close files. (The I/O here stands for input/output, because the program takes input from certain
                  files and writes output to other files.)
While it is not always necessary to explicitly open a file, it is important to conceptually
               separate the process of opening a file from the process of reading the contents of
               a file. This is because it is often necessary to read the contents of a file incrementally
               or specify particular parameters when the file is opened.
            
In the following subsection, I will show to use python to open a file.











The open function and file objects


To open a file, you can use Python's built-in open() function:
            
file = open("<relative/path/to/file>", "<permission>")
The variable named file in the previous example is what the documentation calls a file object. A file object doesn't actually contain the contents of the file, rather it is used to access
               the file's location in memory and give the program permission to operate on the file.
               The file object is generally used as a parameter to other functions that read the data.
            
The first parameter of the open() function is a string containing the relative path from the directory in which the
               program is run to the file containing your data.
            
The second parameter is the permission, which is a string designating the level of
               permission that is granted to the program for working with a file. I will use two
               permissions in this book for file I/O:
            

The read permission, designated by the r character, allows the program to read, but not to modify the contents of the file
               
The write permission, designated by the w character, allows the program to write to the file and automatically erases the contents
                  of any file that already exists with the specified file path
               

There's a good reason not to use the 'w' permission unless you really intend to write to a particular file. Typically, in
               file browsers, there are precautions to make sure you do not lose data accidentally.
               If you are about to delete a file, a dialogue might come up to confirm, or the file
               might be moved temporarily to a trash bin folder before being permanently deleted.
               When opening a file with the 'w' permission, Python will mercilessly overwrite any file that already exists with the
               file path specified. As such, it is always a good idea to double-check that you are
               opening your data to read with the 'r' position and back up your input and output data.
            











File structure - best practices to store your data


The file structure for this chapter was outlined in the logistics section, but I will
               go over it again here in order to make a few points. It is convenient to keep all
               of your data and code in the same folder so that you can easily keep track of where
               everything is for a particular project. I like to go a step further and put all of
               the data in another folder within the project folder. The following is the directory
               structure I will be using in this chapter:
            

There is a practical reason for the separate data folder beyond mental organization.
               In Atom and many other text editors, accidentally opening a data file that is too
               large can crash the text editor. Keeping the data files in an entirely separate directory
               helps you avoid accidentally clicking on and opening a data file instead of a code
               file.
            

The exact directory structure that you choose for a given project should vary depending
                  on the specifics of the project. For example, I will sometimes subdivide my data folder
                  when working with multiple different data sources. I also sometimes include an additional
                  directory for my code when I use several code files in the same project.
               

You may also hear of something called version control (that is, Git). Version control
               is a method to keep track of changes to a code base. I won't be using version control
               in this book, but if you do find yourself needing to use version control for a data
               wrangling project, note that it is important not to include large data files in the
               tracking. Keeping all of the data files in a separate location makes.
            











Opening a file


In this subsection, you will perform the following:

Create and organize a project folder for data wrangling.
Place your data in the project folder.
Write a program to open and close a data file.

In later sections, you will build on this program to read and process the data. The
               following steps will guide you through the process of setting up your file system
               and opening the data file.
            

Open Atom. If you have another text editor that you prefer, you may use that one.
                  Create a project folder called ch3 and add the project folder to the file tree. Inside the ch3 folder, create a file called process_data.py. Additionally, inside the ch3 folder, add an additional folder called data:
               



If you haven't already, download the scf_data.json file from the data folder of the reference material and place the data in your data folder:
               



In your process_data.py file, use the open() function to open scf_data.JSON with read ('r') permission:
               

inFile = open("data/scf_data.json",'r')
Note that if you are using Windows, there is an important difference to keep in mind
                  when writing relative path strings in Python. Windows uses the backslash \ character to separate folder names in a file path, while macOS and Linux use the
                  forward slash / character. However, a backslash character in Python is used for another purpose,
                  so in Windows you will need to write two backslashes \\ in order to separate folders. The following is the Windows version:
inFile = open("data\\scf_data.json",'r')
I will be using the macOS/Linux version to create file paths in future programs, so be sure to change this
               if you are using Windows.
            

It is good practice to explicitly close the file when you are done using it. You can
                  do this using the file object's close() function:
               

inFile = open("data/scf_data.json",'r')inFile.close()

Next, I'm going to jump ahead a bit, just to prove that the previous example does
                  something useful. In the following continuation of process_data.py, you will use the read() function of the file object to read and print the raw contents of the data file:
               

inFile = open("data/scf_data.json",'r')print(inFile.read())inFile.close()

Go ahead and run the previous file. You should see the raw data from the file printed
                  to the output:
               













Reading the contents of a file


A data file, like Python code, is simply a collection of text that follows a set of
                  syntactical rules. In order for a Python program to make use of the data in the data
                  file, it has to be converted to a data structure that can be processed programmatically.
Reading a file typically refers to the process a program uses to collect raw data, while
                  converting data from a raw text format to a data structure is called parsing the data. The term reading a file can also refer to both collecting and parsing data. Usually, there are tools that
                  take care of reading and parsing the data for you. In order to parse the JSON data
                  in this chapter, I will be using Python's built-in json module. As mentioned previously, the structure of Python dictionaries and arrays correspond
               to the structures of JSON data, so representing JSON data in Python is quite intuitive.
            











Modules in Python


A Python module is a set of already made code that can be included in a program to add on extra functionality.
            
Built-in modules are modules that come with most Python installations. They are generally available
               without any additional installation or setup.
            
Other modules, called external modules, are built and maintained by businesses and by the open source community and can be
               installed separately. I will be using a few external modules in later chapters.
            
A module is included in a particular program using an import statement as follows:
            
import <name_of_module>
If the module is a built-in module (or an external module that has been installed
               properly), the import statement will load in all of the code for the named module. Otherwise, the statement
               will produce an error, because it will not be able to find the named module.
            
It is best practice to write import statements at the beginning of a program before any other code. Putting import statements at the beginning of your code helps yourself and others figure out what
               tools are required to run your code. Additionally, if your code attempts to use a
               module before it is imported, the program will produce an error. Putting import statements at the beginning of the program helps you avoid this mistake.
            











Parsing a JSON file using the json module


The next step is to use json module to read and parse the data in the scf_data.json file. The following instructions describe how to use the json module:
            

In the process_data.py file, open the json module using an import statement as follows. Not surprisingly, the name used to import the module is json.

a built-in module or an import jsoninFile = open("data/input_data.json",'r')print(inFile.read())inFile.close()

The load() function of the json module reads and parses the data in a JSON file. Use the json.load() function to load the contents of the file object and assign the result to a variable called scf_data. In the following continuation of , the scf_data variable contains the parsed data from the JSON file. Note that the call to json.load() should be placed between the opening and closing of the input file:
               

import jsoninFile = open("data/input_data.json",'r')scf_data = json.load(inFile)print(inFile.read())inFile.close()
The syntax used to call the load function of the json module ('json.load()') is sometimes a bit confusing for beginners. This syntax has to do with a programming
               structure called objects. An object is a Python structure consisting of a collection of functions and variables.
               Objects are both a way of organizing code conceptually and of avoiding conflicts in
               variable and function names.
               In this book, I will not create any objects directly. However, functions and properties
               of objects will be used frequently, so it is helpful to be familiar with the syntax
               to use objects.
               In this case, load() is a function that belongs to the JSON object, which is created when the json module is imported. As the load() function belongs to the JSON object, the load is called by writing json.load().
            

Next, instead of printing the raw data, print the scf_data variable containing the parsed JSON data as is done in the following continuation
                  of process_data.py:
               

import jsoninFile = open("data/input_data.json",'r')scf_data = json.load(inFile)print(scf_data)inFile.close()

Go ahead and run the program. You should see the parsed JSON data printed to the output:


In the Terminal output, the appearance of the parsed data may not look that different
                  from that of the raw data. However, the two are quite different. In the raw format,
                  the data is simply represented as a Python string. In the parsed format, however,
                  the data is represented as a collection of nested Python dictionaries and Python lists.
                  This means that it is possible to manipulate the data programmatically.











Exploring the contents of a data file


Before writing code to process a dataset, you first need to know some information
               about the contents of the dataset. This is slightly different from exploratory data
               analysis, in which the goal is to draw insight from the data.
            
The details of your initial exploration generally depend on what you already know about a particular dataset and what you ultimately intend to do with the data. That being said, there are a few
               questions that are usually helpful to ask:
            

How is the data structured?

If the dataset is tabular, the answer to this question is rather simple. However,
                        for a hierarchical dataset, there may be a relatively loose structure of the data.
                     


What are the data variables?
For each available variable, what is the data type and what is the range of possible
                  values?
               
Are there any errors, missing values, or outliers in the data that can be corrected?

It is not always necessary to do this exploration programmatically. However, often
               files are too big or messy to look at in a regular text editor or in Excel.
            











Extracting the core content of the data


The core content of a dataset is usually a series of data entries with identical properties.
               As mentioned previously, tabular data sources have a more predictable structure, so
               this step isn't really necessary for something like a CSV file.
            
Hierarchical data sources, on the other hand, will often include metadata with information
               about the dataset along with the data itself. There may also be variations in the
               structure of individual data entries, but for now all data entries will have the same
               variables.
            
Metadata can be useful, but in order to make use of the data, you will usually need
               to separate the core content of the dataset and put it in a more basic format. In
               the following steps, you will explore the structure of the data and find the core
               content:
            

As mentioned previously, in the Python representation of JSON data, every level of
                  data is either a dictionary or a Python list. A good place to start is to see whether
                  the data is a dictionary or a list at the base level. First, comment out the existing
                  print function, as this is no longer needed. Next, use Python's built-in type() function to determine the type of data. Print out the result of the type function:
               

import json######### OPEN AND READ THE DATA FILE ###########inFile = open("data/input_data.json","r")scf_data = json.load(inFile)# print(scf_data)inFile.close()############ DATA EXPLORATION #############dataType = str(type(scf_data))print("type of data: " + dataType)
You should see an output that prints the type of the data inside angle brackets:

Note that in the previous example, I combined (or concatenated) the print value with a description string. This is a useful technique to indicate
               which value is being printed. This is particularly useful when you have a lot of print functions in a particular program.
            

The data at the base level takes the form of a dictionary, so the next step is to
                  see which keys are in the dictionary. This can tell you a bit about how the data is
                  organized. You can use the keys function of the dictionary object in order to print out the dictionary keys:
               

############ DATA EXPLORATION #############dataType = str(type(scf_data)) print("type of data: " + dataType) print("dictionary keys: " + str(scf_data.keys()))
You should see three keys printed to the output: metadata, issues, and errors. The metadata key is rather self-explanatory; the corresponding value of the metadata
               key is information about the data rather than the data itself. In this case, the errors
               key refers to any errors that occurred in the process of retrieving the data. (This
               has to do with APIs, a topic I will discuss in detail in Chapter 8, Getting Data from the Web.)
            

As this dataset contains civic issue reports, it makes sense to assume that the issues key refers to the core data. To be sure, as shown in the following continuation of process_data.py, print out the type of the value of the issues key to see if it is a list:
               

...print("dictionary keys: " + str(scf_data.keys())) issues_data_type = str(type(scf_data["issues"]))print("data type of the 'issues' value: " + issues_data_type )
You should see now that the value of the issuesl. key is indeed a Python list:
            


Finding a list structure in a JSON dataset does not guarantee that it contains the
                  core data; however, it is a good indication, particularly if it is a long list. To
                  check whether the issues list contains the data, print out the first element of the list:
               

...print("data type of the 'issues' value: " + issues_data_type ) print("first element of 'issues' list:")print(scf_data["issues"][0])
The result that is printed is a Python dictionary with key value pairs for each data
               variable:
            

This makes sense; it indicates that the issues list is a list of data entries represented by Python dictionaries. At this point,
               you've explored the structure of the dataset and found the core data.
            
When working with future datasets, keep in mind that there is no one formula to navigate
                  the structure of hierarchical data. Sometimes, the data source will offer documentation,
                  and other times you may need to improvise.
Now that you have located the core content of the dataset, the next step is to take
               a look at some of the details. It is helpful if there is some documentation provided
               with a dataset to describe the names and types of variables in the dataset. Often
               however this is not the case.
            
In the next subsection, I will walk through some steps to display the contents of
                  a data entry in an easy to read format. This will help you to observe what data variables
                  are available and which variables might be of interest to you.











Listing out all of the variables in the data


While working with a dataset, it is good practice to keep organized notes for your own reference. Within the ch1 project folder, make a new subfolder called notes. In the notes subfolder, make a new file called data_variables.txt.
            
I'm going to use Python's built-in pprint (Pretty Print) module in order to show the data variables a bit more cleanly. The
               documentation for the pprint module is available at https://docs.Python.org/3.6/library/pprint.html.
            
The following continuation of process_data.py the first data entry is printed using the pprint module with a format that is easily readable:
            
...# print(scf_data["issues"][0])pp = pprint.PrettyPrinter(indent=4)print("first data entry:")pp.pprint(scf_data["issues"][0])
At this point, you can comment out all of the previous print functions from your initial
               exploration as these are no longer needed. After running the code in the previous
               example, you should see a Pretty Printed result:
            

Go ahead and copy the result from your Terminal and paste it to your notes. Copying
               from and pasting to Terminals is sometimes a bit of a headache or not possible so
               you can alternatively take a screenshot.
            
At this point, you should be prepared to process the dataset and make some changes.
               In the next section, I will walk through some steps to extract certain data variables
               from the original dataset and create a new output with only the selected variables.
            











Modifying a dataset


Looking over the data variables available in your notes, you should be able to get
               a sense of what information is available in each data entry and what information might
               be useful to you. Once you have observed the contents of a dataset, modification of the data is naturally
                  what comes next. Here are some examples of changes that you might make:

Extracting particular data variables
Merging data sources
Converting between formats
Restructuring the data
Removing outliers
Correcting errors

In this exercise, I'm just going to extract some data variables from the original
               dataset, specifically the following:
            

address
created_at
description
lng
lat
rating












Extracting data variables from the original dataset


In the following steps, you will iterate through the data entries of the original
               dataset using a for loop. For each of the individual entries, you will collect the
               previously mentioned variables into a new data entry and place the new data entries
               in to an array.
            
As is done in the following continuation of process_data.py, create an empty array called new_scf_data. This is the array where you will place the modified data entries. Copy the previously
               listed data variables into an array of strings called variables. These strings will be used as keys to access the values from the original data entries:
            
...# pp.pprint(scf_data["issues"][0])############ DATA MODIFICATION #############new_scf_data = []variables = ["address","created_at","description","lng","lat","rating"]











Using a for loop to iterate over the data


Since data usually consists of a sequence of entries, the natural way to apply programmatic
               operations on each entry is to use a for loop.
            
After the new_scf_data array is created, create a for loop. The for loop should iterate over each of the data entries in the original
                  dataset. In the body of the for loop, create a new Python dictionary called new_entry. The new_entry dictionary will contain the extracted variables from the entry of the original dataset.
                  The following continuation of process_data.py demonstrates how this is done:
############ DATA MODIFICATION #############new_scf_data = []for old_entry in scf_data["issues"]:    new_entry={}











Using a nested for loop to iterate over the data variables


Each of the data variables should be extracted from the old entry and placed in the
               new entry. This can be done using a nested for loop, an additional for loop inside the base for loop. You can use a nested for loop to
               iterate over each of the data variables in the variables array.
            
Within the base for loop, create a new nested for loop that iterates over the elements
               in the variables array. In the nested for loop, write a statement that sets the value of each variable
               in the new array to the value of the variable in the old array:
            
...for old_entry in issues:    new_entry = {}    for variable in variables:       new_entry[variable] = old_entry[variable]
It may be helpful to print out content at this point just to make sure that the loop
               is set up properly. This is optional, but if you would like to test the code, you can add a print function after the nested for loop to verify that each of the variables
               are added to the new data entry. This is demonstrated in the following continuation
               of process_data.py:
            

...for old_entry in issues:    new_entry = {}    for variable in variables:       new_entry[variable] = old_entry[variable]    print(new_entry)
At this stage, with the print function from the previous example included, the following is the output on my system:
               


5. Finally, place each new entry into the new_scf_data array using the Python list append() method as follows:
            
...for old_entry in issues:    new_entry = {}    for variable in variables:       new_entry[variable] = old_entry[variable]    # print(new_entry)    new_scf_data.append(new_entry)
The append function is called by writing .append() directly after the name of a Python list as follows:
<array_variable>.append(<value>)
Calling the append function places the value that is passed in at the end of the array.
So far process_data.py creates a Python list containing the new data entries with the extracted data variables,
               however the new data disappears after the program is finished running. In order to
               preserve the data for future use, you will need to output a file containing the revised
               dataset. In the next section, I will walk through the steps for outputting data from
               python to a JSON file.
            











Outputting the modified data to a new file


A new file can be created by opening a file with write permission. If named file does
               not exist, it will be created so long as the directory specified in the file path
               exists.
            
As is done in the following continuation of process_data.py, open a new output file in the data folder called scf_output_data.json with write permission.
            
In general, when you open a file with write permission, remember to be careful not
               to accidentally overwrite an existing file by using the name of a file you do not
               want to erase. Additionally remember to use double backslashes instead of forward
               slashes for file paths if you are using Windows
            
...for issue in issues:    new_issue = {}    for variable in variables: ##       new_issue[variable] = issue[variable] ##    new_data.append(new_issue)### OUTPUTTING THE NEW DATA TO A NEW FILE ###outfile = open("data/scf_output_data.json","w")outfile.close()
You can use the json.dump() method to write your data to the output file. The json.dump() method takes as arguments the file object for the output file as well as a Python dictionary or list to be written to
               the output file. In this case, I'm going to add the indent argument to the json.dump() function, which makes the result more human readable:
            
...outfile = open("data/my_output_data.json","w")json.dump(new_data, outfile, indent=4)outfile.close()
Note that, in practice, the pretty option is only necessary if you intend to read the file in a text editor.
If the program works correctly, it should produce an output file called scf_output_data.json in the data folder. The output file should contain the new JSON data. As this particular output
               file isn't that big, you can open the file in Atom to verify that the output is correct:
            












Specifying input and output file names in the Terminal


So far, you have specified the file names directly inside the program. Alternatively,
               it is possible to write your program so that you can specify the names of the input
               and output files in the Terminal when the program is run. This is particularly useful
               if you need to run the same program several times with different input datasets and
               collect several different output files.
            
The sys module allows you to access an array of strings that correspond to the parameters
               entered in the Terminal when a program is run. To get a sense for how this works,
               you can use create a basic program as follows to import the sys module and print out the parameter array:
            
import sysprint(sys.argv)
You can specify parameters to the program after the initial Python command separated
               by spaces, as follows:
            
$Python(3) json_code.py arg1 arg2 asdf fdsa
When running the preceding command, you will see that the parameters that you specified
               become the elements of the argv array that is printed out:
            

All that is needed now is to replace the names of the input and output files with
               elements from the argv array. In the following steps, I have copied the contents of process_data.py to a new program called process_data2.py which will be modified so that the input and output filenames can be specified in
               the terminal when the program is run.
            











Specifying the filenames from the Terminal



Import the sys module:
               

import jsonimport sysinFile = open("data/input_data.json",'r')scf_data = json.load(inFile)...

Change the input filename to sys.argv[1] and output filename to sys.argv[2]:
               

import jsonimport sysinFile = open(sys.argv[1],'r')scf_data = json.load(inFile)......outfile = open(sys.argv[2],"w")json.dump(new_data, outfile, indent=4)outfile.close()

Run the program followed by the input file and output file paths. This is for Windows:

$ python process_data.py data\\scf_data1.json data\\scf_output_data2.json
This is for macOS and Linux:
            
$ python process_data.py data/scf_data1.json data/scf_output_data2.json











Summary


This chapter was a basic overview of the steps involved in programmatically processing
               data files. To recap, I first introduced file I/O and demonstrated how the Python
               programming language interacts with the computer's filesystem. Then, I showed how
               a Python file object is used with the json module to read and parse a JSON files. Following this, I walked through a basic demonstration
                  to show how you might go about exploring the contents of a data file. Once all of
                  this was covered, I showed how to conduct some basic data modification steps. Finally,
                  I showed how to write data to an output file.
A particular emphasis in this chapter was placed on the process of opening, parsing
               data and writing the result to the output. Using some frameworks like R and Pandas opening reading and writing files is more straight forward. Future chapters will
               focus more on the exploration and modification steps and much less on the specifics
               of inputting and outputting data. Understanding how to interact with files programmatically
               however is helpful when you need to be specific about the way data is opened, parsed or written.
            
The next chapter will a continuation and extension of the content in this chapter
               with additional opportunities to practice processing data in python. In the next chapter,
               I will extend the workflow developed in this chapter to CSV and XML, two additional
               file formats that are popular for the storing of data.
            











Reading, Exploring, and Modifying Data - Part II


In the previous chapter, you learned how to apply Python programming to the task of
               processing data from external files. This chapter will build on the skills covered
               in the previous chapter with an introduction to the XML and CSV data formats. In addition
               to python's built-in tools for handling CSV and XML files, I will also cover pandas,
               which is a popular framework for working with tabular data. This chapter will include
               the following sections:
            

Logistical overview 
Understanding the CSV format
Introducing the csv module 
               
Using the csv module to read and process CSV data
               
Using the csv module to write CSV data
               
Using the pandas module to read and process data
               
Handling non-standard CSV encoding and dialect
Understanding XML
Using the xml.etree.ElementTree module to parse XML data
               












Logistical overview


In this chapter, I will demonstrate four projects, using four programs respectively.
               These are as follows:
            

csv_intro.py: An introduction to Python's built-in csv module
               
pandas_intro.py: An introduction to the pandas module
               
json_to_csv.py: An exercise in working with CSV data
               
xml_to_json.py: An introduction to the xml.etree.ElementTree module and an exercise in working with XML data
               

The finished product for each of these projects can be obtained from the code folder
               in the external resources. All of the external resources are available in one folder at the following link: https://goo.gl/8S58ra.
            











File system setup


To follow along with the exercises, you should create a project folder called ch4 to contain all of the code and data. There are a number of different programs, input
               datasets, and output datasets involved in the projects and exercises in this chapter.
               To keep things organized, I've created an additional folder to contain the code for
               the chapter. I've also fragmented the data folder to separate the input data from
               the output data. Lastly, I've created a folder to store my notes on the file structure
               and contents. The following is the file structure that I will be using:
            
ch4/-->code/---->csv_intro.py---->pandas_intro.py---->json_to_csv.py---->xml_to_json.py-->data/---->input_data/------>scf_extract.json------>roads_by_country.csv------>wikipedia.xml---->output_data/---->notes/------>roads_by_country.txt------>wikipedia.txt
If you use a different file structure, keep in mind that the file paths in your program
               may differ from those used in the book.
            











Data


For this chapter, I will be using three datasets. The first of these, scf_extract.json, is the output from the Chapter 3, Reading, Exploring, and Modifying Data - Part I, exercise. The second, artificial_roads_by_region.csv, is a fabricated dataset containing the total road length of all of the roads in
               different made-up regions. The third dataset is an XML file containing the search
               results for Wikipedia articles about data wrangling. This data was obtained from the
               Wikipedia search API--details are provided along with the dataset. All datasets can
               be retrieved from the data folder in the external resources at https://goo.gl/v4dLc3. The data should be placed in the data/input_data folder of this chapter's project directory.











Installing pandas


As mentioned previously, I will do a brief introduction to pandas in this chapter.
               Pandas is a popular framework for working with tabular data. To follow along with
               the demonstration, you will need to install the pandas module. I've included links to installation instructions in the Installation document in the external resources.
            











Understanding the CSV format


CSV, which stands for comma-separated value, is a file format used to store tabular data. As you may have guessed, a CSV file
               consists of text values that are separated by commas.
            
In a CSV file, each data entry is represented by a single line. (Another way of thinking
               about this is that each line is separated by a newline '\n' character, though newline characters are invisible in most text editors.)
            
By convention, the first row in a CSV file contains the column headers, or the names attributed to each column. In each subsequent row, the position of
               each value corresponds to the data variable to which that value belongs. In other
               words, the first value in a row corresponds to the first column header, the second
               value in a row corresponds to the second column header, and so on. The following example
               demonstrates the syntax of a CSV file:
            
<header1>, <header2>, <header3>, <header4>, <header5><value1>, <value2>, <value3>, <value4>, <value5><value1>, <value2>, <value3>, <value4>, <value5><value1>, <value2>, <value3>, <value4>, <value5><value1>, <value2>, <value3>, <value4>, <value5>
You can think of the CSV format as the most basic version of a spreadsheet. In fact,
               most spreadsheet programs can open and edit CSV files. Of course, there are spreadsheet
               features (like formulas) that can't be represented in a CSV file. It is often useful,
               however, to process data that originates from a spreadsheet program like Excel. This
               can be done by saving or exporting in CSV format.
            
There are two ways to process CSV data in Python. The first of these is to use Python's
               built-in CSV module. The second is to use an external module called pandas. In the following exercises, I will introduce both methods as both may be handy depending
               on the use case.
            











Introducing the CSV module


The csv module is designed to process CSV data in an iterative manner. Rather than reading
               the data and then processing it, the csv module is designed to simultaneously read and process the data line by line.
            
This makes sense from an efficiency perspective. It takes less memory and less time
               to read and operate on the data entry by entry than it does to read the data as whole.
               For this reason, the csv module is well suited to process very large data files that are too big to read into
               memory.
            
Additionally, because the csv module is built-in, it will work with any Python installation, making it transferable.
               This is worth mentioning because it is a slight advantage of the csv module over the pandas module.
            
In the following exercise, I will demonstrate how to use the csv module to read and process data. 
            











Using the CSV module to read CSV data


In this first demonstration, you will read the artificial_roads_by_region.csv file and get an estimate of the total length of roads as of 2011.
            
The first step to using the CSV module is to import the module, as shown in the following
               example:
            
import csv
The next step, similar to the process use in Chapter 3, Reading, Exploring, and Modifying Data - Part I, is to open the file containing the data. Recall that for this chapter, the code is
               one directory up from the base directory. This means that in the path to the data,
               you will first need to go back one directory using ../ in macOS and Linux or ..\\ in Windows. In the following demonstration, I've created a Python script called csv_intro.py in which the open() function is used to open artificial_roads_by_region.csv with read permission:
            
import csv## open the file containing the datafin = open("../data/input_data/artificial_roads_by_region.csv","r",newline="")
You may have noticed that a new parameter, newline="", was added to the open() function. This reflects a best practice described in the documentation at https://docs.python.org/3/library/csv.html#id3.
            
In Chapter 3, Reading, Exploring, and Modifying Data - Part I, when reading in JSON data, the json module was used with the file object to read all of the data at once. Similarly,
               the csv module uses a file object to read data, but it does not read all of the data at once.
               Instead the csv.DictReader() function takes as a parameter a file object and returns a reader object which reads and parses CSV data line by line.
            
The following continuation of csv_intro.py, demonstrates how to create a reader object:
            
import csv## open the file containing the datafin = open("../data/input_data/artificial_roads_by_region.csv","r",newline="")## create a csv reader using the file object, 'fin'reader = csv.DictReader(fin)
A CSV reader is what is called a Python iterable, which is an object that works like an array when used with a for loop. When using
               the csv module, a CSV file is read and parsed by iterating over the corresponding reader object using a for loop. This is done using a for loop as the following example demonstrates:
            
for row in <reader>:    <do something with row...>
The Dict in the DictReader stands for dictionary. Behind the scenes, the reader object parses each line one by one into a Python dictionary, where the keys correspond
                  to the column headers and the values correspond to the row values.
The csv module also has a more basic reader that parses the data row by row into arrays,
                  but the dictionary reader is more appropriate for this project.
To retrieve the column headers from the reader object, you can use the reader.fieldnames value. In the following continuation of csv_intro.py, the column headers of the CSV file are printed to the output:
            
....reader = csv.DictReader(fin)## print the column headersprint("column headers:")print(reader.fieldnames)fin.close()
When running csv_intro.py, you should see the column headers printed to the output as follows:
            

Go ahead and copy the headers into your notes for the project. These can be used to
               access the individual fields from each row.
            
Next, you can create a for loop to read the data. A good first step when using the
               CSV module is to print out the first ten rows or so. This can help you identify the
               type of data in each column if it is not clear, and in particular, the way in which
               NA values (values that are missing or not available) are represented. In order to count the total road length in 2011, you will need to recognize and skip
                  over NA values. In the following continuation of csv_intro.py, the reader.line_num property is used to check the line number and print the first 10 lines:
....print(reader.fieldnames)total_roads=0## iterate over the rows in the CSV fileprint("first 10 values of the 2011 column:")for row in reader:    ## print out the first 10 values of 2011    if reader.line_num <= 11:        print(row["2011"])fin.close()
At this stage, running csv_intro.py should produce the following output:
            

There are two things to notice from the output. First, the numbers are formatted as
               strings with trailing decimal points. It is not clear from the output that the numbers
               are strings, though numbers are always encoded as character sequences in CSV files. You could verify this by printing the data type instead of the value using type(row["2011"]). You will need to convert the number strings to float types in Python in order to
               add the values.
            
The second thing to notice is that the NA values take the form of empty strings. This means that when adding values, empty strings, which represent NA values should
                  be skipped.
After creating a loop to read and parse CSV data, one possible (though not so elegant)
               approach to processing the data is to create a nested array to store the data, as
               follows:

myData = [[<value1>],[<value2>],[<value3>],
    [<value1>],[<value2>],[<value3>],
    [<value1>],[<value2>],[<value3>],
    ....
]

               This can work, but it doesn't take advantage of the efficiency of the CSV module.
               It is usually better to do any analysis or processing inside the loop used to read
               the data. This makes the code simpler and more efficient.
            
The goal of this project is to count up the total roads length as of 2011. As many of the data entries are missing, this will be a very rough estimate. In Chapter 6, Cleaning Numerical Data - An Introduction to R and Rstudio, I will show how to use R to clean numerical data and get a slightly better estimate.
                  For now, this will be done by simply adding all of the values that are available.
In the following continuation of csv_intro.py, a variable called total_roads is created. In each iteration of the for loop introduced in previous steps, the 2011 value of each row is first checked to see if it is an empty string (if it is an NA value). If the value is not an empty string, it is converted from a
               string data type to a float data type and then added to total_roads variable. In this way, the total length of road is aggregated across all of the regions.
            
....print(reader.fieldnames)total_roads=0## iterate over the rows in the CSV fileprint("first 10 values of the 2011 column:")for row in reader:    ## print out the first 10 values of 2011    if reader.line_num <= 11:        print(row["2011"])    if row["2011"] != "":        total_roads+=float(row["2011"])print("total length of roads as of 2011:")print(total_roads)fin.close()
At this stage, running csv_intro.py should produce the following output:
            

This demonstrates the process for using the csv module to read data. In the next section, I will demonstrate how to use the csv module to write data to a csv file.
            











Using the CSV module to write CSV data


In this next demonstration, you will read the output data from the previous chapter
               and convert it to CSV format.
            
To start off with, I will create a file called json_to_csv.py which will make use of both the csv module and the json module. In the json_to_csv.py file, I will start by importing both the csv module and the json module and reading the JSON data from the scf_extract.json file into a Python list:
            
import csvimport json## read in the input json datafin = open("../data/input_data/scf_extract.json","r")json_data = json.load(fin)fin.close()
Writing CSV data using the csv module is a bit like reading data with the CSV module in reverse. When opening a
                  file with write permission, you can use the corresponding file object to create a writer object. This is done using the csv.writer() function. The writerow() function of the writer object will take an array of values and write it to a row in the output file. 
Recall that the extracted data entries from the previous chapter took the form of
               an array of dictionaries. To demonstrate this visually, the following is the structure
               of the data:
            
[    {<key1>:<value1>,<key2>,<value2>,...},    {<key1>:<value1>,<key2>,<value2>,...}    {<key1>:<value1>,<key2>,<value2>,...}    ...]
Converting scf_extract.py to CSV format will involve changing each data entry into a Python list, where the
               values are in a fixed order. Python dictionaries and JSON key value pairs are not
               necessarily in a fixed order. In order to keep the values in a fixed order that corresponds
               to the column headers, the approach used here will be to create an array of the column
               headers. For each data entry, the array of column headers can be used to extract each
               value in order and place it in an array of values.
            
First, in the following continuation of csv_to_json.py, the keys of the first data entry (which correspond to the data variables in the
               dataset) are placed into a Python list. This Python list will be used as the reference
               of the column headers of the output file:
            
....json_data = json.load(fin)fin.close()## get an array of data variables to ## use as column headerskeys = json_data[0].keys()
Next, an output file is opened with write permission and the corresponding file object
               is used to create a writer object. The writer.writerow() function is used to write the first row (containing the column headers) to the output
               file:
            
....keys = json_data[0].keys()## open an output file with write permission## and create a writer objectfout = open("../data/output_data/scf_extract.csv","w")writer = csv.writer(fout)writer.writerow(keys)fout.close()
The last step will be to iterate over each of the entries in the json_data variable. Each data entry from the original dataset should be converted from dictionary
                  to a Python list, and written to the output CSV file.
In the following continuation of json_to_csv.py, a for loop is created to iterate over the entries in the JSON dataset. In a nested
                  for loop, each of the data variables are extracted one by one and placed in a fixed
                  order into a Python list. The resulting Python list is then written to a row in the
                  output CSV file:
....writer.writerow(keys)## iterate over the json data extracting## the data variables into an ordered list## write each data entry to the output filefor entry in json_data:    row=[]    for key in keys:        row.append(entry[key])    writer.writerow(row)fout.close()
That's it for the CSV module! If you are interested in learning more, I've made a
               link to the documentation for the csv module available in the Links and Further Reading document of the external resources. 
            
The next section will be an introduction to the pandas module which uses a different approach for processing tabular data. In the next section,
               I will revisit the task of counting the total road length as of 2011 in order to demonstrate
               some of the differences. 
            











Using the pandas module to read and process data


Pandas is a set of tools for easy manipulation and analysis of tabular data. Among
               these tools is an object for representing and manipulating tabular data called a dataframe. With a dataframe, it is possible to express row-wise and column-wise operations
               to be performed on the data. Pandas can simplify the process of working with data considerably, requiring fewer
                  lines of code and making the process more intuitive.











Counting the total road length in 2011 revisited


In this next demonstration, you will approach the same problem of enumerating the
               road length--this time using pandas. To start off with, create a file called pandas_intro.py that import the pandas module as follows:
            
import pandas
Reading CSV data using the pandas module is quite simple. Pandas combines the process of opening a file with the process
               of reading and parsing the data. To read a CSV file using the pandas module, you can use the pandas.read_csv() function. The pandas.read_csv() function takes as input the path to a file and returns a pandas dataframe. In the
               following continuation of pandas_intro.py, the pandas.read_csv() function is used to read the data from artificial_roads_by_region.csv into a pandas dataframe called roads_by_country:
            
import pandas## read the csv file into a pandas dataframeroads = pandas.read_csv("../data/input_data/artificial_roads_by_region.csv")
In the next step, I will add a couple lines to pandas_intro.py to print the column headers of the dataframe using the Python list() function. The list() function converts an item to a Python list. When used with a pandas dataframe, the
               list() function returns a Python list with the column headers of the dataframe.
            
import pandas## read the csv file into a pandas dataframeroads = pandas.read_csv("../data/input_data/artificial_roads_by_region.csv")## print out the column headersprint("column headers:")print(list(roads))
In pandas, columns can be indexed using the column names, similar to the way dictionaries
               are indexed using keys. In the following continuation of pandas_intro.py, the 2011 column is selected from the dataframe and printed. An individual column selected
               from pandas dataframe is a slightly different object called a pandas series that functions similarly to a dataframe:
            
....# print(list(roads))## extract roads from 2011roads_2011 = roads['2011']print(roads_2011)
Printing a pandas dataframe or series just prints the beginning and end of each column
               so that it won't flood your terminal. The following is the output on my machine from
               running pandas_intro.py as this stage:
            

You may have noticed that several of the values printed to the output are of the type
               NA. This is because pandas automatically detects an empty string and assigns its own
               datatype for an NA value. You do not need to remove NA values for this project as
               pandas will simply skip over them automatically.
            
Converting between datatypes in pandas can be done using the dataframe.astype() or series.as_type() function. The functions take as input a string that indicates the data type to be
               converted to. Recall that in the previous exercise the 2011 column was originally
               a string datatype, and needed to be converted to a float datatype. In the following
               continuation of pandas_intro.py, the values of the roads_2011 series are converted from a string data type to a float data type:
            
# print(roads_2011)## convert the data type from string to floatroads_2011_2 = roads_2011.astype('float')
Once the data is converted, the last step is to add all of the values in the roads_2011_2 column. The dataframe.sum() function, of the series.sum() function can be used to add the values of a pandas dataframe or pandas series respectively. Both skip over NA values automatically. In the following continuation of pandas_intro.py, the sum of the values in the 2011 column is calculated:
            
....roads_2011_2 = roads_2011.astype('float')## find the sum of the values from 2011total_2011 = roads_2011_2.sum()print("total length of roads as of 2011:")print(total_2011)
At this stage, running pandas_intro.csv should produce the following output:
            

Pandas also makes it possible to select multiple columns at once using an array of
               column names. In the following continuation of pandas_intro.py, a new dataframe is created that just contains every column except for the non-numerical
               column with the region name:
            
....# print(total_2011)## create a list of columns to extractcolumns = ["2011","2010","2009","2008","2007","2006","2005","2004","2003","2002","2001","2000"]## extract the numerical data variablesroads_num = roads[columns]
Alternatively, the previous step could be expressed more concisely, using the dataframe.drop() function, which drops a particular set of columns or rows. Here is a more concise
                  way of removing the region name column:
## the more concise wayroads_num = roads.drop("region name",axis=1)
Finally, the dataframe.sum() function can be used to add multiple columns at once. In the following continuation
               of pandas_intro.py, the total for every year is found simultaneously.
            
.....roads_num = roads.drop("region name",axis=1)# ## sum along the vertical axis for all columnstotal_by_year=roads_num.sum(0)print("total road length by year:")print(total_by_year)
Note that a parameter was passed to the dataframe.sum() function in order to specify that the sum should take place along the vertical axis.
Running pandas_intro.py at this point should print out a series of summed columns:
            

That's it for pandas! The way the pandas module works in Python is a bit analogous to the way tabular data is represented
                  and processed in R. This will become clearer when I introduce R in Chapter 6, Cleaning Numerical Data - An Introduction to R and Rstudio. Because much of the functionality of the pandas module is similar to R, I have just done a brief coverage here. For more on pandas, I've made a link to the pandas documentation available in the
               Links and Further Reading document of the external resources.
            











Handling non-standard CSV encoding and dialect



Most CSV data now is encoded using the standard Unicode formats that are used by default
                  in Python. Occasionally however, you may come across a data file with an older or
                  more obscure encoding format. In order to properly read and process data with a non-standard
                  encoding, you will need to specify the encoding in the call to open() function that creates the file object. The pandas.read_csv() function also allows for the specification of non-standard encoding. I've made a
                  link to the encoding formats accepted by Python in the Links and Further Reading document in the external resources.
               
There also may be variations in the delimiter, the character used to separate values, the newline character used to indicate the end of a line, and a few other formatting attributes. These
                  variations are collectively referred to as the CSV dialect. Both the pandas.read_csv() function and the csv.reader() have parameters that allow you to specify variations in the formatting attributes
                  of the CSV file you are reading from or writing to. I've made links to the documentation
                  for both available in the Links and Further Reading document of the external resources.
               












Understanding XML


XML, like JSON, is a hierarchical data format that allows a nested data structure. If
               you have worked with HTML before, you might be familiar with the general structure
               and syntax of XML, which HTML is based on.
            
An XML dataset consists of a nested tree of elements where each element may contain text with a particular value, another element or a
               collection of additional elements. Each element in the tree may also contain any number
               of attributes which describe the element.
            
Each element is represented by an opening tag and a closing tag. An opening tag indicates the beginning of an XML element. It is written by writing
               the name of the tag inside angle brackets. The following is what an XML opening tag looks
               like:
            
<tagname>
A closing tag follows the opening tag and indicates the end of an element. It is written
               by specifying the name of a tag inside angle brackets with a / before the name. The following is what an XML closing tag looks like:
            
</tagname>
In other parts of the book, angle brackets are used as a placeholder for some value
                  or parameter. In the previous examples, and when displaying XML in general, the angle brackets are
               meant literally, as they are a part of the XML syntax. 
            
The attributes of an element are written inside the opening tag. An attribute is specified
               with the attribute name follow by an = symbol followed by the value of the attribute inside " characters. The following is what the opening tag of an element with attributes looks
               like:
            
 <tagname attribute1="value1" attribute2="value2">
Finally, the nested elements within an XML element are written between the opening
               and closing tags of the parent element. To make this human readable, the nested elements
               are typically written on separate lines with additional levels of indentation.
            
The following is an example of what a typical XML document might look like:
<XMLdocument>    <metadata>        <timecreated>            5:00 AM        </timecreated>    </metadata>    <dataformats>        <dataformat type='hierarchical'>            JSON        </dataformat>        <dataformat type='hierarchical'>            XML        </dataformat>        <dataformat type='tabular'>            CSV        </dataformat>    <dataformats></XMLdocument>











XML versus JSON


XML and JSON can both be used for representing hierarchical data; however, JSON has
               become increasingly popular as a means of storing and distributing data. A big reason
               for this is that JSON is more compatible with JavaScript, a programming language critical
               for web development. That said, a number of current and legacy data sources are available
               only in XML, so it can be useful to know how to work with XML.
            
In the following section, I will do a brief introduction of the Python xml.etree.ElementTree module which can be used to process XML data. 
            











Using the XML module to parse XML data


In this next section, I will walk through some of the steps for using Python to parse and process XML data
                  in a basic project to convert a dataset from XML to JSON.
In Python, XML is represented using a tree-like structure and parsed using the xml.etree.ElementTree module. Navigating this tree is a bit more sophisticated than navigating the structure
               of JSON data because the structure of XML does not fit as neatly into python data
               structures. 
            
The first step to processing XML data is to read the XML data into Python's tree-like
               XML representation with the xml.etree.ElementTree module, using the following steps:
            

Import the xml.etree.ElementTree module.
               
Open the file containing the XML data.
Use the ElementTree.parse() function to create an ElementTree object.
               
Use the .getroot function of the ElementTree object to return an element object representing the root of the element tree.
               

The result is a representation of the XML data in python that you can navigate starting
               with the root element, or the element at the base of the XML tree. In the following demonstration, I've
               created a Python script called xml_to_json.py, which opens the XML dataset for this chapter, parses the data, and navigates to
               the root element:
            
import jsonfrom xml.etree import ElementTreefin = open("../data/input_data/wikipedia.xml","r")tree = ElementTree.parse(fin)root = tree.getroot()fin.close()
The root variable at the end of the previous example is an element object. Specifically, it is the element object representing the element at the base of the
               tree. 
            
An element object is Python's representation of an XML element, similar to the way a dictionaries
                  and Python lists are Python's representation of JSON structures. With element objects, it is possible to navigate the XML tree by accessing a particular element's
                  attributes, internal text, or child elements.
Once you have obtained an element object that represents the root element, the next step is to navigate from the document
               root to the part of the XML that contains the data you are looking for. As with JSON
               data, XML data sources often have good documentation to describe the structure and
               contents of a dataset. However, if documentation is not available for a particular
               dataset, it may be helpful to conduct a quick exploration of the dataset in order
               to find how the data is structured.
            
The element.getchildren() function of the element object can be used to retrieve an array of element objects that are the child elements of a particular element. In the the next few
               steps, I will continuously use element.getchildren() to search through the XML and display the contents of the XML data at various levels.
               This exploration will be similar to the exploration used in the previous chapter to
               navigate JSON data. The goal is to find the core content of the dataset within all
               of the metadata.
            
In the following continuation of xml_to_json.py, the element.getchildren() function is used to retrieve the child elements of the root element. The child elements
               are then printed to the output:
            
....root = tree.getroot()## search through the element tree ## for a long list of elementsdata = root.getchildren()print(data)fin.close()
Running xml_to_json.csv at this stage should produce the following output:
            

In the printout, it is possible to see the tag name of each element in the list of
               child elements. It is possible to expand to one of the child elements by selecting
               it's index from the Python list of child elements. The result is an element object representing the selected child element. The following demonstrates how you
               might expand to the child elements of the second child element of the root element:
            
data = root.getchildren()[1].getchildren()
This can be a rather primitive but effective way of navigating the contents of an
               XML file if the file is too big to open in a text editor.
            
After a few iterations of searching through the children, the following continuation
               of xml_to_json.py produces a relatively long list of elements that likely contain the relevant data:
            
....## search through the element tree ## for a long list of elementsdata = root.getchildren()[1].getchildren()[1].getchildren()print(data)fin.close()
At this stage, running xml_to_json.csv should print out a list of element objects as follows:
            

There are two more features of element objects which can be useful in navigating and parsing XML data. The first is the
               element.tag value of an element object, which is a string containing the tag of the element. The second is the element.attrib value of an element object, which is a dictionary in which the keys correspond to the attribute names
               and the values correspond to the attribute values.
            
At this stage of xml_to_json.py, the data variable contains a list of element objects corresponding to a list of data entries in the XML data. In the following
               continuation of xml_to_json.py, the tag name and attributes of the first element are printed to the output.
            
....data = root.getchildren()[1].getchildren()[1].getchildren()# print(data)print("item_tag:")print(data[0].tag)print("item_attributes:")print(data[0].attrib)fin.close()
Running xml_to_json.py at this stage shows that the .attrib value of each element is a dictionary in which the keys correspond to the data variables
               and the dictionary values correspond to the data values. This means converting to
               JSON will just involve retrieving the .attrib value of each element and placing the result into an array. The resulting array can
               be written to an output JSON file using the json module.
            
In the following continuation of xml_to_json.py, an array called json_data is created. A for loop iterates over each of the element objects and retrieves the .attrib value of each placing each of the resulting dictionaries in the json_data array. The json_data array is then written to a JSON file called wikipedia.json.
            
....# print(data[0].attrib)## iterate over the xml data converting## each entry to json formatjson_data=[]for entry in data:     json_data.append(entry.attrib)## output the new data to a json filefout = open("../data/output_data/wikipedia.json","w")json.dump(json_data,fout,indent=4)fin.close()fout.close()
Running xml_to_json.csv should now produce a JSON version of the data in the output_data folder!
            
This has been a basic introduction to working with XML data. To read more about the
               xml.etree.ElementTree module and working with XML in Python, I have made a link available in the Links and Further Reading document in the external resources.
            











XPath


XPath is a language for efficiently searching through and navigating XML data, which may
               be useful for some projects that require heavy use of XML data. XPath makes it possible
               to select elements in an XML tree using path-like expressions. The Python xml.etree.ElementTree module includes partial support for XPath.
            
I won't cover XPath in this book, but I've included some links to useful resources
               on XPath in the Links and Further Reading document in the external resources. 
            











Summary


In summary this chapter was an introduction to the XML and CSV data formats. In Python,
               CSV data can be processed using the Python csv module or using the pandas module depending on personal preference and the nature of the task. The csv module can also be used to write output CSV data. (While it was not covered here,
               it is also possible to use the pandas module to output data in CSV and JSON formats.)
               Finally, XML data can be parsed using the Python xml.etree.ElementTree module.
            
In the next chapter, you will have the chance to work on a much more applied project--extracting
               street names from addresses. In the next chapter, I will introduce regular expressions, a tool for matching and extracting patterns in text data. 
            











Manipulating Text Data - An Introduction to Regular Expressions


Previous chapters have dealt with data manipulation of data on a macroscopic level, without much emphasis on the values in each data entry. In other words, the
               content up until this point has focused with processing datasets as a whole.
            
In these next two chapters, I will discuss data wrangling on a more microscopic level, placing emphasis on the individual values of the dataset. This chapter will
               be about working with text data. In this chapter, I will introduce and discuss the
               use of regular expressions to recognize patterns in strings. After a brief introduction of regular expressions,
               I will demonstrate a specific application of regular expressions in a project to extract
               street names from a dataset containing addresses.
            
This chapter will include the following sections:

Logistical overview
Understanding the need for pattern recognition
Introducing regular expressions
Looking for patterns
Quantifying the existence of patterns
Extracting patterns












Logistical overview


Three Python scripts will be used for the demonstrations in this chapter. The first of these scripts, regex_intro.py, will be a program to introduce and demonstrate the use of regular expressions in
                  Python. The second, explore_addresses.py, will be a simple program to explore the dataset and look for patterns. The third, extract_street_names.py, will be a program to extract the street names from the original dataset and output
                  a revised dataset with a column for street names. The finished product for each of
                  these files is available in the code folder of the reference material. All of the reference material can be found at the following link: https://goo.gl/8S58ra.
            











Data


For the exercise in this chapter, you will be working with another dataset containing Seeclickfix issue reports. This time, I've put the dataset in the CSV format and extracted just
               a few fields from the data. I've also limited the entries to the continental US in
               order to make the address formats a bit more consistent.
            
The dataset used with this chapter, called scf_adress_data.csv, is available in the data document of the external resources.
            











File structure setup


For this chapter, you should create a project folder called ch5 that contains the code for the chapter. There should be a data folder in the project folder to contain the data for the chapter. You may copy and
               paste the data from the source into the data file:
            
ch5/regex_intro.pyexplore_addresses.pyextract_street_names.py--data/----scf_address_data.csv











Understanding the need for pattern recognition


The simplest way to process the values of text fields to treat them as categorical variables. In a categorical variable, the data entries take on a fixed number of
               values. To illustrate working with categorical variables, consider a categorical field,
               such as the US states. If the state of Connecticut, for instance, were to appear in
               a large enough number of data entries, you might expect to see certain characteristic
               misspellings, such as the following:
            

Conecticut
Conneticut
Connetict

An easy way to fix all of the misspellings might be to iterate through each of the
               data entries and check against a list of common misspellings as is done in the following
               demonstration. Note that the following code sample is just for demonstration purposes and doesn't
                  belong to a particular file:
            
misspellings = ["Conecticut", "Conneticut", "Connectict"]for ind in range(len(data)):     if data[ind]["state"] in misspellings:        data[ind]["state"] = "Connecticut
In the previous demonstration, incorrect text fields are corrected based on their
               exact value. It is often the case, however, that you will need to analyze and change
               text fields on a more structural level. Working with addresses is a good example of
               such a task. No two addresses are alike, but addresses generally fall under a certain
               structure.
            
Specifically, in the US, proper addresses are written as follows:
<house number> <street name> <city>, <state> <zipcode>
Text fields that contain structured information, such as addresses, are, in a way,
               like their own data type. Such text fields are represented in Python on an atomic
               level as a single string, but they may contain several pieces of information. Working
               with text fields such as addresses requires a new programming tool called regular expressions, which can search for patterns within strings.
            











Introducting regular expressions


A regular expression, or regex for short, is simply a sequence of characters that specifies a certain search pattern.
               Regular expressions have been around for quite a while and are a field of computer
               science in and of themselves.
            
In Python, regular expression operations are handled using Python's built in re module. In this section, I will walk through the basics of creating regular expressions
               and using them to  You can implement a regular expression with the following steps:
            

Specify a pattern string.
               
Compile the pattern string to a regular expression object.
               
Use the regular expression object to search a string for the pattern.
               
Optional: Extract the matched pattern from the string.












Writing and using a regular expression


The first step to creating a regular expression in Python is to import the re module:
            
import re
Python regular expressions are expressed using pattern strings, which are strings
               that specify the desired search pattern. In its simplest form, a pattern string can
               consist only of letters, numbers, and spaces. The following pattern string expresses
               a search query for an exact sequence of characters. You can think of each character
               as an individual pattern. In later examples, I will discuss more sophisticated patterns:
            
import repattern_string = "this is the pattern"
The next step is to process the pattern string into an object that Python can use in order to search for the pattern. This is done using the compile() method of the re module. The compile() method takes the pattern string as an argument and returns a regex object:
import repattern_string = "this is the pattern"regex = re.compile(pattern_string)
Once you have a regex object, you can use it to search within a search string for the pattern specified in the pattern string. A search string is just the name
                  for the string in which you are looking for a pattern. To search for the pattern,
                  you can use the search() method of the regex object as follows:
            
import repattern_string = "this is the pattern"regex = re.compile(pattern_string)match = regex.search("this is the pattern")
If the pattern specified in the pattern string is in the search string, the search() method will return a match object. Otherwise, it returns the None data type, which is an empty value. 
            
Since Python interprets True and False values rather loosely, the result of the search function can be used like a Boolean value in an if statement, which can be rather convenient:
            
....match = regex.search("this is the pattern")if match:    print("this was a match!")
The search string this is the pattern should produce a match, because it matches exactly the pattern specified in the pattern
               string. The search function will produce a match if the pattern is found at any point
               in the search string as the following demonstrates:
....match = regex.search("this is the pattern")if match:    print("this was a match!")if regex.search("*** this is the pattern ***"):    print("this was not a match!")if not regex.search("this is not the pattern"):    print("this was not a match!")











Special characters


Regular expressions depend on the use of certain special characters in order to express patterns. Due to this, the following characters should not be
               used directly unless they are used for their intended purpose: 
            
. ^ $ * + ? {} () [] | \
If you do need to use any of the previously mentioned characters in a pattern string
               to search for that character, you can write the character preceded by a backslash
               \ character. This is called escaping characters. Here's an example:
            
pattern string = "c\*b"## matches "c*b"
If you need to search for the backslash character itself, you use two backslash characters,
               as follows:
            
pattern string = "c\\b"## matches "c\b"











Matching whitespace


Using \s at any point in the pattern string matches a whitespace character. This is more general
               then the space character, as it applies to tabs and newline characters:
            
....a_space_b = re.compile("a\sb")if a_space_b.search("a b"):    print("'a b' is a match!")if a_space_b.search("1234 a b 1234"):    print("'1234 a b 1234' is a match")if a_space_b.search("ab"):    print("'1234 a b 1234' is a match")











Matching the start of string


If the ^ character is used at the beginning of the pattern string, the regular expression
               will only produce a match if the pattern is found at the beginning of the search string:
            
....a_at_start = re.compile("^a")if a_at_start.search("a"):    print("'a' is a match")if a_at_start.search("a 1234"):    print("'a 1234' is a match")if a_at_start.search("1234 a"):    print("'1234 a' is a match")











Matching the end of a string


Similarly, if the $ symbol is used at the end of the pattern string, the regular expression will only produce a match if the pattern appears at the end of the search string:
            
....a_at_end = re.compile("a$")if a_at_end.search("a"):    print("'a' is a match")if a_at_end.search("a 1234"):    print("'a 1234' is a match")if a_at_end.search("1234 a"):    print("'1234 a' is a match")











Matching a range of characters


It is possible to match a range of characters instead of just one. This can add some
               flexibility to the pattern:
            

[A-Z] matches all capital letters
[a-z] matches all lowercase letters
               
[0-9] matches all digits
               

....lower_case_letter = re.compile("[a-z]")if lower_case_letter.search("a"):    print("'a' is a match")if lower_case_letter.search("B"):    print("'B' is a match")if lower_case_letter.search("123 A B 2"):    print("'123 A B 2' is a match")digit = re.compile("[0-9]")if digit.search("1"):    print("'a' is a match")if digit.search("342"):    print("'a' is a match")if digit.search("asdf abcd"):    print("'a' is a match")











Matching any one of several patterns


If there is a fixed number of patterns that would constitute a match, they can be
               combined using the following syntax:
            
(<pattern1>|<pattern2>|<pattern3>)
The following a_or_b regular expression will match any string where there is either an a character or
               a b character:
            
....a_or_b = re.compile("(a|b)")if a_or_b.search("a"):    print("'a' is a match")if a_or_b.search("b"):    print("'b' is a match")if a_or_b.search("c"):    print("'c' is a match")











Matching a sequence instead of just one character


If the + character comes after another character or pattern, the regular expression will match
               an arbitrarily long sequence of that pattern. This is quite useful, because it makes
               it easy to express something like a word or number that can be of arbitrary length.
            











Putting patterns together


More sophisticated patterns can be produced by combining pattern strings one after
               the other. In the following example, I've created a regular expression that searches
               for a number strictly followed by a word. The pattern string that generates the regular
               expression is composed of the following:
            

A pattern string that matches a sequence of digits: [0-9]+
A pattern string that matches a whitespace character: \s
A pattern string that matches a sequence of letters: [a-z]+
A pattern string that matches either the end of the string or a whitespace character:
                  (\s|$)

....number_then_word = re.compile("[0-9]+\s[a-z]+(\s|$)")if number_then_word.search("1234 asdf"):    print("'1234 asdf' is a match")if number_then_word.search("asdf 1234"):    print("'asdf 1234' is a match")if number_then_word.search("1234 1234"):    print("'1234 1234' is a match")











Extracting a pattern from a string


Recall that the search() method returns a match object if it locates the pattern in the search string. If you save the match object
               to a variable, you can use the group() function of the match object to retrieve the first occurrence of the pattern in the
               search string:
            
....match = number_then_word.search("**** 1234 abcd ****")print(match.group())











The regex split() function


Regex objects in Python also have a split() method. The split method splits the search string into an array of substrings. The splits occur at each location along the string where the pattern is identified. The result
               is an array of strings that occur between instances of the pattern. If the pattern
               occurs at the beginning or end of the search string, an empty string is included at
               the beginning or end of the resulting array, respectively:
            
....print(a_or_b.split("123a456b789"))print(a_or_b.split("a1b"))











Python regex documentation


If you are interested, the Python documentation has a more complete coverage of regular
               expressions. It can be found at https://docs.python.org/3.6/library/re.html.
            
I will spend the rest of this chapter discussing the application of regular expressions
               to extract information. In the following sections, you will build a program that,
               given a set of addresses, extracts the street name of each address.
            











Looking for patterns


Creating a good regular expression is a bit of a design process. A regular expression
               that is too rigid may not be able to match all of the potentially correct matches.
               On the other hand, a regular expression that is not specific enough may match a large
               number of strings incorrectly.
            
The key is to look for a well-defined pattern in the data that easily distinguishes
               the correct matches from otherwise incorrect matches. It is usually a helpful first
               step to look through the data itself. This allows you to get an intuitive sense for
               the existence and frequency of certain patterns.
            
The following python script uses pandas to read the dataset into a pandas dataframe,
               extract the address column, and print out a random sample of 100 addresses using the pandas series.sample() function. A random seed of 0 is used in order to make the resulting printout consistent.
               The script is available in the external resources as available in the external resources as explore_addresses.py.
            
import pandas## read data to a dataframeaddresses=pandas.read_csv("data/scf_address_data.csv")## extract address column and print random sample to## outputprint(addresses["address"].sample(100),random_state=0)
Note that I could have just used the default printout of the address column rather
                  than a random sample. It's always a good idea, however, to anticipate that the data
                  might be skewed in some way. It's possible that the first 100 addresses have one format while the other addresses have another format. Randomizing
                  the sample ensures that you are able to get a homogeneous view of the data.
After running the previous program, you should see a number of addresses printed out
               to the Terminal:
            

Looking over the output, it appears that most addresses fall under the pattern that
               is standard for US addresses, with the street number first, then the street name,
               and then the city, state, and zip code.
            
However, not all of the addresses follow this pattern, for example:
Spring St. & Market St.  Greensboro, North Car...
               Pleasant And Main St Malden, Massachusetts
               Corner Of Lima Ave And Cowan
            
It will therefore be important to filter out the entries where the street name cannot
                  be determined by a pattern. 
Of the addresses that do fit the standard format, the simplest case seems to be where
               the street name consists of one word, followed by a street suffix:
            
6836 Mortenview Dr Taylor, MI 48180, USA
               3401 Garland Ave Richmond, Virginia
               8982 Channing Avenue Westminster, California
               230 Quincy Ave Quincy, MA 02169, USA
            
In this case, the address begins with three components that make up the street address:
<street number> <initial street name> <street suffix>
These three components provide an excellent way of pinning down the street name. The
               street number indicates the beginning of the street name. The street suffix both indicates
               the end of the street name and confirms that the identified string refers to a street
               name.
            
A good approach then would be to identify and extract the street address from the
               address. From there, the street name, consisting of the initial street name and the
               street suffix, can be extracted from the street address. 
            











Quantifying the existence of patterns


If you look through the addresses output from the previous step, you may notice that
               not all of them have a street address as outlined earlier.
            
A common deviation from the street address pattern is the addition of an N or S to a street name. Another deviation is initial street names that contain more than
               one word:
            
3649 N Southport Ave
               4022 N Mozart St Irving Park
               260-300 Osceola Ave S St Paul, MN 55102, USA
            
103 & 105 Misty Morning Way Savannah, Georgia
               1656 Mount Eagle Place Alexandria, Virginia
            
Yet another deviation is the omission of street numbers:
West Outer Drive Dearborn, Michigan
               Crown St New Haven, CT, USA
            
Depending on the project, you will usually need to decide how far to go to capture
                  all of the variations in the data. The more complex the pattern, the more work it
                  will take to capture.
Due to this trade-off, it is helpful to quantify how much of the data is captured
                  by a particular pattern. In the next few subsections, I will walk through the process
                  of creating a pattern string to capture the street address. 











Creating a regular expression to match the street address


Recall that in the street address, you are looking for the following pattern:
<street number> <initial street name> <street suffix>
The first part of the pattern string should match the street number. The street number
               is a sequence of digits located at the beginning of the string. For the sake of this
               exercise, I will ignore street addresses that contain letters (such as 10A or 10B)
               or ranges (such as 110-120). The following should be sufficient to capture the street
               address:
            

A ^ symbol to indicate the beginning of the string
               
A [0-9] range to indicate the range of all digits
               
A + symbol following the digit range to indicate an indefinitely long sequence of digits
               
A \s+ symbol to indicate an arbitrary amount of whitespace afterward 
               

To start off with, in the following demonstration. I will create a Python script called
               extract_street_names.py. In extract_street_names.py, first the re module and the csv module are imported. Then a pattern string is created to recognize the street street
               address, starting with the street number:
            
import reimport csv## match street number at the beginning of stringstreet_address_pattern_string = "^[0-9]+"## match space charactersstreet_address_pattern_string += "\s+"
Next, you will add to the pattern string so that it recognizes the initial street
               same. I will consider the initial street name to be one word. As a large number of
               street names contain numbers (that is, 1st st, 2nd ave), the initial street name should be a sequence of characters that are either letters
               or numbers. 
            
This can be done using the either or (|) symbol containing a digit, [0-9], on one side of the | symbol and a letter, [a-z], on the other as the following demonstrates. 
            
([a-z]|[0-9])+\s+
The + symbol is used to allow the initial street name to be arbitrarily long and the \s+ symbol is used to match an arbitrary amount of white space following the initial
                  street name.
You do not need to match capital letters here, because I will later use string.lower() function to convert the search string to lower case when matching the pattern. 
In the following continuation of extract_street_names.py, the street address pattern string is extended to match the initial street name.
            
import reimport csv###### PATTERN STRING FOR MATCHING STREET ADDRESS## match street number at the beginning of stringstreet_address_pattern_string = "^[0-9]+"## match space charactersstreet_address_pattern_string += "\s+"## match the street namestreet_address_pattern_string += "([0-9]|[a-z])+"## match space charactersstreet_address_pattern_string += "\s+"
The last step in creating the pattern string is to match the street suffix. Because
               most street names in the US share a common set of suffixes, the street suffix can
               be used as a way of verifying that the pattern is a street address and not some other
               coincidental pattern. 
            
In order to take advantage of this, the approach I will take is to make the pattern
               more rigid by matching either of a fixed set of street suffixes:
            
"(<suffix1>|<suffix2>|<suffix3>|<suffix4>...)"
Since most streets have street suffixes and most suffixes are rather common, this
               approach should be sufficient to capture a large amount of the data, while verifying
               that the expression matches a street address. In the following continuation of extract_street_names.py, the street address pattern string is further extended to match 
            
....## match the street namestreet_address_pattern_string += "[0-9|a-z]+"## match space charactersstreet_address_pattern_string += "\s+"## match common street suffixes:street_address_pattern_string += "(av|"street_address_pattern_string += "ave|"street_address_pattern_string += "avenue|"street_address_pattern_string += "st|"street_address_pattern_string += "street|"street_address_pattern_string += "dr|"street_address_pattern_string += "rd|"street_address_pattern_string += "drive|"street_address_pattern_string += "road|"street_address_pattern_string += "blvd|"street_address_pattern_string += "boulevard|"street_address_pattern_string += "pl|"street_address_pattern_string += "place)"
There's one last step. It isn't likely, but it is possible that some of the street
               extensions might accidentally pick up on the beginning of a word that starts with
               the same letters; for example, the words start, stem and step all have st at the beginning, and the words drill, drip and drone all start with dr. Since it is relatively simple to rule out this possibility, you can verify that
               the street extension is followed by either a . and space, or the end of the string as is done in the following continuation of extract_street_names.py:
            
....street_address_pattern_string += "boulevard|"street_address_pattern_string += "pl|"street_address_pattern_string += "place)"## match whitespace or end of stringstreet_address_pattern_string += "(\s|$|\.)"
Once this is done, the pattern can be compiled as is done in the following continuation
               of get_street_names.py:
            
......## match whitespace or end of stringstreet_name_pattern_string += "(\s|$|\.)"## compile the patternstreet_address_regex = re.compile(street_address_pattern_string)
At this stage, the street_address_regex regular expression object is capable of matching the street address within a US address string. Now
                  that you've created a regular expression, the next step is to see how it performs
                  when implemented on the data. In the next subsection, you will count the fraction
                  of data entries for which the regular expression produces a match.











Counting the number of matches


In the following continuation of extract_street_names.py, I've opened scf_address_data.csv and added a loop to iterate over the rows in the file. Within the loop, each of the
               addresses are extracted and searched to see if they match the pattern.
            
Notice that when the regular expression is applied, I use the .lower() method to change all capital letters to lowercase. This makes it so that you do not
               have to account for uppercase letters in the pattern string.
            
The script keeps a running count of the total number of matches. At the end of the
               script, the fraction of address strings that match the pattern is printed to the output.
            
....## compile the patternstreet_address_regex = re.compile(street_address_pattern_string)## read and iterate over the datafin = open(with"data/scf_address_data.csv","r")reader = csv.DictReader(fin)match_count=0.for row in reader:    address=row["address"]    ## apply the regular expression    street_address_match = street_address_regex.search(address.lower()):    if street_address_match:        match_count+=1print("percent match:" + str(match_count/reader.line_num))fin.close()
If everything works correctly, running extract_street_names.py should now print out a result of approximately 0.4. This means that about 40% of the data is captured by the pattern. For the purpose
               of this exercise, 40% will be plenty of data, though depending on the application,
               you may require more or less sensitivity.
            











Verifying the correctness of the matches


There is no way of objectively quantifying the extent to which the matches are correct
               without having a better pattern matching tool to begin with. It is a good idea, however,
               to get a qualitative sense of whether the regular expression is working properly.
               This can be done by printing out the identified street addresses. Because the print() function can slow down the program when working with files, it is good practice to
               limit the number of print() function calls. In the following continuation of extract_street_names.py, for addresses that produce a match, the street address is extracted from the address
               string. Using the match_count variable to limit the print() function calls, the first 200 street addresses are printed to the output.
            
....    street_address_match = street_address_regex.search(address.lower()):    if street_address_match:        match_count+=1        street_address = street_address_match.group()        ## print out the matched items        ## as a sanity check to make sure        ## the regular expression is correct        if match_count<200:            print(street_address)....
If all goes well, you should see a series of street addresses consisting strictly
                  of a street number, an initial street name, and a street suffix. Here is the output on my machine:
            

From the result the regular expression appears to be effective at identifying street
               addresses in address strings. The last step is identify and extract the street name
               from the string containing the street address. This is done in the next section.
            











Extracting patterns


There are a few approaches that can be used to extract the street name from the street
               address. The one I will use here is to make a regular expression to recognize just
               the street number. The street number regular expression can be used to split the street
               address string. In the resulting array, the second entry should contain the street
               name. 
            
In the following continuation of extract_street_addresses.py, an additional regular expression is created to match just the street number and
               the following white space. Within the for loop that iterates over the data, the street_number_regex regular expression is used to split the street_address string into two components, the second of which contains the street name:
            
....### JUST THE STREET NUMBER ## match street number at the beginning of stringstreet_number_pattern_string = "^[0-9]+"## match space charactersstreet_number_pattern_string += "\s+"## compile the patternstreet_address_regex = re.compile(street_address_pattern_string)street_number_regex = re.compile(street_number_pattern_string)........        street_address=street_address_match.group()        street_name = street_number_regex.split(street_address)[1]        ## as a sanity check to make sure        ## the regular expression is correct        ## print out the matched items.        if row_count<200:            # print(street_address)            print(street_name)....
Running extract_street_addresses.py at this should produce a printout of reliable street names. In the next step, I will
               output a new file with an additional column containing the newly extracted street
               names.
            











Outputting the data to a new file


The last step is to save the results of applying the regular expression. In the following
               continuation of extract_street_names.py, an output CSV file called scf_street_name_data.csv is opened with write permission. This time, I've use a DictWriter object, which writes dictionaries to the output instead of Python lists:
            
....## read and iterate over the datafin=open("data/scf_address_data.csv","r",newline="")fout=open("data/scf_street_name_data.csv","w",newline="")reader = csv.DictReader(fin)headers=reader.fieldnamesheaders.append("street_name")writer = csv.DictWriter(fout,fieldnames=headers)........fin.close()fout.close()
Now the program is finally set up to write new data to the output file. 
In this demonstration, only the data entries that produce a street name are written
               to the output file. In the following continuation of extract_street_names.py, for each row where a street name is produced, the street name is added to the data
               entry. The resulting data entry is written as a row to the output CSV file: 
            
....        street_address=street_address_match.group()        street_name = street_number_regex.split(street_address)[1]        ## append the street address to the        ## row and write result to the output        row["street_name"] = street_name        writer.writerow(row)....
That's it! You've extracted the street name from addresses. If all goes well, running
               extract_street_names.py should output a new file with a new column for street names:
            












Summary


In this chapter, you've learned how to implement regular expressions in Python. In
               addition, you've learned a process for identifying  patterns and building appropriate
               pattern strings to recognizing particular patterns. To summarize, the first step to
               approaching a pattern recognition problem is to observe the data and Identify a pattern that can be represented with a regular expression. Once a pattern
                  has been identified, the next step is to build a pattern string to capture the data and verify that the pattern string works well and as expected. Finally, the regular expression
                  should be implemented expression to either clean, extract or filter text data.
This concludes the initial section of the book dealing with a generalized programming
               approach to data wrangling. In the next two chapters, I will take on a more formulated
               approach to data wrangling.
            
In the next chapter, Chapter 6, Cleaning Numerical Data - An Introduction to R and RStudio, I will introduce the R programming language and IDE, and then show how to use R
               to conduct common numerical data cleaning tasks.
            











Cleaning Numerical Data - An Introduction to R and RStudio


The philosophy behind the previous chapters leading up to this point has been to take
               a generalized programming approach to data wrangling. A good grasp of the underlying
               programming techniques involved in manipulating data gives you the ability to tackle
               non-standard problems in data wrangling when they are encountered.
            
However, a large number of tasks can be more concisely and elegantly expressed with
               a language specific to data manipulation. In many cases, the R environment and programming
               language can allow you to express more with less. On top of that, several packages
               built on top of R can make the language even more concise and expressive. In this
               chapter and the next, I will show you how R can be used to take a more formulated
               approach to data wrangling. This chapter will be an introduction to R with the application
               of numerical data cleaning. This chapter will include the following sections:
            

Logistical overview
Introducing R and RStudio
Familiarizing yourself with R and RStudio
Conducting basic outlier detection and removal
Handling NA values
                  
                  
Deleting missing values
Replacing missing values with a constant
Imputation of missing values



Lastly, at the end of the chapter will be a section to list the variable names used
               in the chapter and their contents. 
            











Logistical overview


All of the activities in this chapter will be conducted in a single R script. R scripts
               are files with the .R extension which are analogous to Python scripts. This chapter will make use of the
               RStudio IDE rather than a text editor for editing code, so you will be able to create
               this script from within RStudio (I will explain how to do this later in the chapter).
            
The R script containing the code for this chapter is called r_intro.R and is available in the code folder of the external resources. All external resources are available at the following link: https://goo.gl/8S58ra.











Data


The dataset for Chapter 6 will be the artificial_roads_by_region.csv dataset that was introduced in Chapter 4. It can be downloaded from the data folder of the external resources.
            











Directory structure


To follow along with the exercises in Chapter 6, Cleaning Numerical Data - An Introduction to R and RStudio, create a project folder called ch6. The ch6 folder should have a folder called data, which should contain the  artificial_roads_by_region.csv dataset used with this chapter. The project folder will contain an R script called r_intro.R; however, there is no need to create the file beforehand, since you can create and
               save R scripts from RStudio. The following is the directory structure for this chapter:
            
ch6/--> r_intro.R--> data/----> artificial_roads_by_region.csv











Installing R and RStudio


For this chapter and the next, you will need to install both the RStudio IDE and R
               base. R base is the core R programming language and environment and is needed in order
               to use RStudio.  Installation instructions for both RStudio and R base are available
               in the Installation document of the external resources.
            











Introducing R and RStudio


R is a programming language and environment for statistical computing and graphics.
               R differs from Python in that it is specialized for statistical computing and contains
               a number of features in addition to the programming language. The R project website lists
               the features of R as:
            

An effective data handling and storage facility
A suite of operators for calculations on arrays - in particular, matrices
A large, coherent, integrated collection of intermediate tools for data analysis
Graphical facilities for data analysis and display either onscreen or on hard copy
A well-developed, simple and effective programming language that includes conditionals,
                  loops, user-defined recursive functions, and input and output facilities
               

The most common way of using R is through RStudio, an IDE for interfacing with the R programming language and environment. RStudio
               combines several components to centralize and facilitate the process of working with
               data. These include:
            


A console for executing R commands:




An editor for writing and executing code and viewing data:



A panel to show the variables, dataframes, and functions in the current environment:



A panel to display, among other things, graphs and help information:


In the next section, I will walk through some of the features of R and RStudio.











Familiarizing yourself with RStudio


Compared to RStudio, the Python development process that has been used in previous
                  chapters has been a bit indirect. Code has been written in a text editor to perform
                  a particular function and then executed as a whole through a separate interface.
Writing code in RStudio is more of an iterative process. Code can be run line by line
                  from the editor, and data and variables are stored continuously within the environment. This
                  means that you can conduct analysis, observe the data, and verify the correctness
                  of your code as you go. The following steps can be used to create an R script in RStudio.

To begin with, open the RStudio program:



From RStudio, you can create a new R script by selecting File | New | Rscript. This will create and open a .R file in the text editor:
               



This will open the script for editing. You can save the script to your ch6 folder by selecting File | Save. The name of the script is not that important here, but I will name mine r_intro. Note that RStudio will add the file extension automatically:
               













Running R commands


Commands in R can be entered directly into the console, but they can also be run line
               by line from the editor. To run a line of code from the editor, you can move the cursor
               to that line, and press Ctrl + Enter on your keyboard.
            
Try entering 1+1 in your R script and pressing Ctrl + Enter, with the cursor on that line. The following should be printed in the console:
            












Setting the working directory


Like the terminal, the R environment interacts with the filesystem relative to a particular
               directory. In R, the directory can be set directly in the script using the setwd() function. 
            
It is helpful to set the working directory at the beginning of an R script to the location of the data. For this chapter, the
               working directory should be set to the ch6 project folder. I've added the following line to the beginning of my script - note
               that the path you use should be specific to the way your file system is set up:
            
setwd("~/Documents/book/ch6/ch6/")
In R, the forward slash / character can be used regardless of operating system. After adding a line to set the working directory,
               you can execute the line by moving the cursor to that line and pressing Ctrl + Enter. Alternatively, you can highlight some or all of the text from one or more lines
               and press Ctrl + Enter to execute the code. If the command works, you should see the line printed in the
               console below the editor. You can verify that the working directory is set correctly
               by entering getwd() into the console as follows:
            












Reading data


You can read a CSV dataset into the R environment using the read.csv() function, which accepts a path string to a CSV file and returns an R dataframe. Variable
               assignment in R is done using the <- symbol, which is more or less analogous to the = symbol in Python. After the working directory is properly set, the following line
               will read artificial_roads_by_region.csv and assign the resulting data to an R dataframe called roads:
            
roads <- read.csv("data/artificial_roads_by_region.csv")











The R dataframe


The R dataframe is a built-in data structure that represents tabular data. Once a
               dataframe is created, the columns and initial values of the dataframe can be viewed
               in the Environment tab in the upper left corner of RStudio:

Double-clicking on a dataframe listed in the Environment tab will display a spreadsheet of the data in the editor panel:
            

At this point, I will point out that the column names have been changed from the original
               CSV. Region name has become region.name and 2011 has become X2011. R uses the column header names as variables, so the column names need to be changed
               to proper variables names. It is possible to change the column names that R uses with
               the colnames() function, though I will keep the names that R assigned.
            
In R, the . character is valid as a part of a variable name, so long as it is followed by a letter.
               Variables in R often contain . characters to separate words.
            











R vectors


Vectors in R are analogous to Python lists - they are a data structure that contains
               an ordered list of values. A vector can be created using the following syntax:
            
vector <- c(<element1>, <element2>, <element3>)
Try entering the following in your R console:
> c(1,2,3,4,5,6)
It is also possible to create a vector consisting of a sequence of numbers using the
               following syntax:
            
sequence_of_numbers <- <start_number>:<finish_number>
Try entering the following into your R console:
> 1:5
Vectors can be indexed using integer numbers or other vectors. For example, the following
               creates a vector called my.vector, prints the third value of my.vector, and then prints the first five values of my.vector:
            
my.vector=1:10print(my.vector)print(my.vector[3])print(my.vector[1:5])
Indexing in R starts with 1, so be sure not to get this mixed up with Python indexing,
               which starts at 0.
            











Indexing R dataframes


Individual columns can be selected from a dataframe using the $ symbol. The following selects the data from 2011 from the roads dataframe:
            
roads.2011 = roads$X2011
The resulting value is an R vector containing the values of the selected column. 
Dataframes can also be indexed by row and column using the following syntax:
            
new.dataframe <- original.dataframe[<row_index>,<column index>].
            
To select all rows or all columns, the row_index or column_index can be left blank. For example:
            
the.same.thing <- roads[,]
The rows and columns indices can both be an integer value or a vector of integer values.
               For example:
            
first.three.rows <- roads[1:3,]first.three.columns <- roads[,1:3]
Row and column indices can also be a vector of logical values, as I will demonstrate
               later. Finally, the column index can be a vector of column names. For example:
            
X2011.with.region <- roads[,c("region.name","X2011")] 
In the next section, I'll show you how to use the tools that I've demonstrated so
                  far to perform the task from Chapter 4, Reading, Analyzing, Modifying, and Writing Data - Part II, of finding the 2011 total road length.











Finding the 2011 total in R


Let's revisit the task of finding the 2011 total, this time using R. The first step is to extract the X2011 values. This has already been done in a previous step, which created the roads.2011 vector.
The next step is to find the sum of all of the values in the roads.2011 vector. One easy way is to use the built in R sum() function with a parameter that skips over NA values. I will show how to use the sum() function in this way this section (feel free to skip ahead if you want the short
                  cut). 
First however, I will take a more round about approach to demonstrate the use of indexing.
                  This will involve removing the NA values manually from the roads.2011 vector and then applying the sum() function.
You can create a vector of logical values using the is.na() function. The is.na() function takes as an argument a vector or dataframe and returns a vector or dataframe,
                  respectively, of TRUE or FALSE values indicating whether the value of a position is NA. For example, you can try entering the following into the console:
> is.na(c(1,NA,2,NA,NA,3,4,NA,5))
You can create a vector of logical values corresponding to the NA values of roads.2011 using the is.na() function. The resulting vector can then be used to index and extract the non-NA values
               of the roads.2011 vector.
            
In the following line, a vector called not.na is created. The resulting not.na vector is a vector of logical values in which TRUE corresponds to an index of roads.2011 which is not NA and FALSE corresponds to an index of roads.2011 which is NA. The ! symbol is used to flip the TRUE and FALSE values so that TRUE corresponds to non-NA values.
            
not.na <- !is.na(total.2011)
Using an array of logical values to index a vector or a dataframe will extract all
               of the indices corresponding to a TRUE value. The following line will create a vector of all of the non-NA values in the
               roads.2011 vector:
            
roads.2011.cleaned <- roads.2011[not.na]TRUE and FALSE values so that TRUE corresponds to non-NA values._
Finally, the sum() function can be used to add the values:
            
total.2011<-sum(roads.2011.cleaned)
The more concise way of finding the sum is to set the na.rm of the sum function to TRUE, so that the function will skip over the NA values:
            
total.2011<-sum(roads.2011, na.rm=TRUE)
From the beginning, the following is the sequence of steps that have been used to
               read the data and find the 2011 total:
            
########## reading in data## set the working directory## the working directory here should be changed ## for your setupsetwd("path/to/your/project/folder")## Read in the data, and assign to the roads_by_country## variable. Roads by country is an R Dataframeroads <- read.csv("data/artificial_roads_by_region.csv")## select the 2011 column from the roads dataframeroads.2011 <- roads$X2011########## finding the 2011 total## create a index corresponding to not na valuesnot.na <- !is.na(roads.2011)## index roads.2011 using not naroads.2011.cleaned <- roads.2011[not.na]## print the sum of the available roads in 2011.total.2011<-sum(roads.2011.cleaned)## the more concise waytotal.2011<-sum(roads.2011, na.rm=TRUE)
Finding the sum of a column is a useful exercise in data manipulation; however, it
               may not be enough to get an accurate estimate, particularly if there is a high number
               of missing or erroneous values. (I created this particular dataset, so I can assure
               you that there are a number of missing and erroneous values.) In the following sections,
               I will go over some common techniques to clean numerical data. This will help to get
               more accurate results for the 2011 total, but it will also demonstrate some additional
               features of R and RStudio.
            
Before I get into the numerical data cleaning process, I will warn you that the variable
               names can get confusing, because there are several layers of filtering that take place.
               It is hard to represent all of these layers with a descriptive variable naming convention.
               The dplyr package, which I will introduce in the next chapter, will help considerably to keep
               R code concise and descriptive. For now, you can refer to a list of all of the variable
               names and their content at the end of the chapter. 
            











Conducting basic outlier detection and removal


Outlier detection is a field of study in its own right, and deals with the detection of data that does
               not fit in a particular dataset. Advanced outlier detection techniques can be considered
               a part of data wrangling, but often draw from other fields, such as statistics and
               machine learning. For the purposes of this book, I will conduct a very basic form
               of outlier detection to find values that are too high. Values that are too high might
               be aggregates of the data or might reflect erroneous entries. 
            
In these next few steps, you will use the built-in plotting functionality in R to
               observe the data and look for particularly high values. 
            
The first step is to put the data in a form that can be easily visualized. A simple
               technique to capture the trend in the data by row is to find the means of all of the
               non-NA values in each data entry. This can be done using the rowMeans() function in R.
            
Before using the roawMeans() function, you will need to remove all of the non-numerical features - in this case,
               the region.name column. It is possible to index all of the columns except for one, by including a
               - sign before the index. The following creates a new dataframe without the region.name column:
            
roads.num <- roads[,-1]
The num in the roads.num dataframe stands for numerical because the roads.num dataframe just contains the numerical data.
            
With the first column removed, you can use the rowMeans function to obtain a vector with the mean value of each row. Like the sum() function, the rowMeans() function accepts an  na.rm parameter which will cause the function to ignore NA values. The following returns
               a vector with the mean value across each row:
            
roads.means <- rowMeans( roads.num , na.rm=TRUE )
To get a sense for how the data is distributed, you can plot a histogram of the means
               by using the hist() function as follows:
            
hist(roads.means)
In the lower right-hand corner of RStudio, you should see a histogram that is quite
               skewed towards the left. The following is the output on my computer:
            

There appears to be a small number of values that are far to the right of the central
               distribution. Deciding what should be removed should usually be justified based on
               the particular project and the context of the data.
            
However, since this particular dataset doesn't quite have a context (it was randomly
               generated), I will remove the data that doesn't follow the general trend. The main
               distribution seems to go from zero to about 0 to 2000, so I will remove all of the rows with a mean greater than 2000.
            
To remove the rows whose means are greater than 2000, you can first create an index vector of logical values corresponding to row means
               less than 2000 as follows:
            
roads.keep <- roads.means < 2000
Finally, you can use the logical vector from the previous step to index the original
               roads dataframe. The following removes all of the rows with means greater than 2000:
            
## remove entries with means greater than 2000roads.keep <- roads.means < 2000## remove outliers from the original dataframe roads2<-roads[roads.keep,]## remove outliers from the numerical roads dataframeroads.num2 <- roads.num[roads.keep,]## remove outliers from the vector of means## (we will use this later)roads.means2 <- roads.means[roads.keep]## plot the means with outliers removedhist(roads.means2)
Plotting a histogram of the filtered row means now yields a recognizable normal distribution:

Now that the erroneous values are removed, the next step is to handle the missing
               values.
            











Handling NA values


Sometimes, it is acceptable to have NA values in the dataset. However, for many types of analysis, NA values need to be either removed or replaced. In the case of road length, a better
               estimate of total road length could be generated if the NA values were replaced with best guesses. In the following subsections, I will walk
               through these three approaches to handling NA values:
            

Deletion
Insertion
Imputation












Deleting missing values


The simplest way to handle NA values is to delete any entry that contains an NA value, or a certain number of NA values. When removing entries with NA values, there is a trade-off between the correctness of the data and the completeness
               of the data. Data entries that contain NA values may also contain several useful non-NA values, and and removing too many data
               entries could reduce the dataset to a point where it is no longer useful.
            
For this dataset, it is not that important to have all of the years present; even
               one year is enough to give us a rough idea of how much road length is in the particular
               region at any point over the 12 years. A safe approach for this particular application
               would be to remove all of the rows where all of the values are NA.
            
A quick shortcut to finding the rows for which all values are NA is to use the rowSums() function. The rowSums() function finds the sum of each row, and takes a parameter to ignore NA values. The following finds the sum of the non-NA values in the roads.num2 dataframe:
            
roads.num2.rowsums <- rowSums(roads.num2,na.rm=TRUE)
Because NA values are ignored, in the resulting vector of row sums, a 0 corresponds to either a row with all NA values or a region with no roads. In either case, a 0 value corresponds to a row that is not important and can be filtered out. The following
               creates an index that can be used to filter out all such rows:
            
roads.keep3 <- roads.num2.rowsums > 0
In the following continuation of r_intro.R, the roads.keep3 vector is used to filter out the rows that have either all NA values or 0 roads:
            
roads3 <- roads2[roads.keep2,]roads.num3 <- roads.num2[roads.keep2,]roads.means3 <- roads.means3
Next, I will do a quick demonstration of another approach to NA handling, replacing the values with a constant.
            











Replacing missing values with a constant


Replacing all NA values with a constant is actually rather simple. A dataframe can be indexed using
               another dataframe of logical values of the same dimension. The following will create
               a new dataframe that is a copy of roads3 and replace all of the NA values with 0:
            
roads.replace.na <- roads3roads.replace.na[is.na(roads3)] <- 0
In this chapter, I won't use the dataframe with replaced NA values which was just created, so this is just for demonstration purposes. A more
               effective way to handle NA values, when possible, is to replace the missing value with an estimate based on
               existing data. 
            











Imputation of missing values


A good guess for the missing values is the mean value of the non-NA values in the
               same row (in a particular region), since the total length of road doesn't change all
               that much year to year.
            
In the following continuation of r_intro.R, the row means in indices corresponding to NA values in 2011 are extracted from the roads.means3 vector. The extracted row means are then assigned to the indices of the roads.2011.3 vector which correspond to NA values:
roads.2011.3 <- roads3$X2011roads.2011.3[is.na(roads.2011.3)] <- roads.means3[is.na(roads.2011.3)]print(sum(roads.2011.3))
This results in a much better estimate of the total roads length as of 2011. It is
               possible to go even further however to get a similar estimate for each column.
            
There are a number of ways to approach the task of getting an estimate for each column.
               The approach I will take is to go column by column and replace each of the NA values in that column with the corresponding mean value for the corresponding row. 
            
This can be done with the apply() function, which applies a function to each column. Before using the apply() function, you will need to create the function that is applied to each column. Functions
               in R work similarly to functions in Python, but have a different syntax. The following
               is the syntax for a function in R:
            
my.function <- function(<arguments>){    <code block>    return(result)}
The following is a function called impute() which takes two arguments: a vector that is a column of a dataframe, and a vector
               of equal length that contains the imputation values for each row. The impute function returns the original dataframe column where the NA values have been replaced with the corresponding imputation values: 
            
impute <- function(x,imputations) {    x[is.na(x)] <- imputations[is.na(x)]    return(x)}
The apply() function takes as its first argument a dataframe, and its third argument a function.
               The second argument to the apply() function is a 1 if the function should be applied to each row, or a 2 if the function
               should be applied to each column. After the third argument, all additional arguments
               to the apply() function are passed into the function which is specified in the third argument. The
               apply() function returns a data type called a matrix, so the result will need to be converted back to a dataframe using the data.frame() function.
            
In the following continuation of r_intro.R the apply() function is used to go column by column, run the impute function on each column,
               and return a result with the imputed values: 
            
## apply the impute function to each column with apply()roads.impute.na <- data.frame( apply(roads3,2,impute,imputations=roads.means3))print(colSums(roads.impute.na))
The resulting dataframe--roads.impute.na--is now a dataframe containing imputed values in the place of the NA values. Printing the column sums with the colSums() function should reveal the estimated total road length for each year in the console
               output:
            












Variable names and contents



roads: The R dataframe containing the original data
               
roads.2011: The 2011 column of the roads dataframe
               
not.na: An array of logical that corresponds to the non-NA values of the 2011 column
               
roads.2011.cleaned: The 2011 column from the roads dataframe with the NA values removed
               
total.2011: The sum of the 2011 values
               
roads.num: The roads dataframe without the first column (just the numerical data)
               
roads.means: A vector containing the mean value of each row
               
roads.keep: A vector of logical that is True for rows for which the mean is less than 2000 (non-outliers)
               
roads2: The roads dataframe with outliers removed
               
roads.num2: The roads dataframe with the first column removed (just the numerical data) and
                  the outliers removed
               
roads.means2: The vector of means with outliers removed
               
roads.num2.rowsums: The sum of the values in each row with the outliers removed (where a sum of 0 indicates
                  that all values in the row are NA)
               
roads.keep2: A logical vector used to index the rows for which there is at least one non-NA value
               
roads3: The roads dataframe with outliers removed and the rows with all NA values removed
               
roads.num3: The roads dataframe with the first column removed (just the numerical data) and
                  the outliers removed, and with rows containing all NA values removed
               
roads.means3: The vector of means with outliers removed, and with rows containing all NA values removed
               
roads.replace.na: The roads dataframe with outliers removed, the rows with all NA values removed, and the NA values replaced with 0
               
impute: A function that takes a vector with NA values and a vector with replacement values of the same length, and returns the original
                  vector with the NAs replaced
               
roads.impute.na: The roads dataframe with outliers removed, the rows with all NA values removed, and the NA values replaced with the row mean
               












Summary


In summary, this has been a brief introduction to R, but it just scratches the surface
               of the features of the R language. R is a fully functional programming language, so
               there are quite a few ways to approach any given problem. In the Links and Further
               Reading document of the external resources, I've provided some links that go into
               more depth on the R language. The external resources are available at https://goo.gl/8S58ra.
            
In the next chapter, I will introduce the dplyr package for R. The dplyr documentation refers to dplyr as a "grammar for data manipulation".  The dplyr package can be used to express a number of data manipulation operations in a neat
               and concise manner.
            











Simplifying Data Manipulation with dplyr


Both R and pandas go a step further to make data manipulation a bit more expressive
               than most programming languages. For example, many iterative tasks that would otherwise
               require a for loop (such as selecting a column) can be done using a single line of
               code.
            
However, there are still aspects of data manipulation that could be expressed a bit
               more directly. Recall that in previous chapter, a number of processing steps and variables
               were used to filter the data and find the result. It can be hard to express a large
               number of data manipulation operations in a way that is descriptive and contained.
            
Ideally, it should be possible to express each of the steps for processing data in
               one sequence of code, and in a way that reflects the function of each processing step.
               A number of packages build on the R programming language and environment in order
               to make it more expressive, concise, neat, and consistent. One well developed effort
               to make data processing in R more elegant and intuitive is a collection of packages
               collectively called the tidyverse.
            
At the time of writing this, the tidyverse includes five packages, two of which I
               will be using in this chapter:
            

tibble is just another version of R's dataframe that has a few improvements. In particular,
                  the printout is a bit cleaner.
               
dplyr, as the documentation states, is a grammar for data manipulation. It contains a series
                  of functions that allow you to express data manipulation operations easily and intuitively.
                  The syntax for using dplyr takes some getting used to.
               

The tidyverse also includes a few more packages that may be of use, but I won't cover
               all of them here. Excellent documentation on all of the tidyverse packages is available
               at https://www.tidyverse.org.
            
In this chapter, I will walk through some of the basic functionality of the dplyr package and show how it can be used to manipulate data. This chapter will include
               the following sections:
            

Logistical overview
Introducing dplyr
Getting started with dplyr
Chaining operations together
Filtering the rows of a dataframe
Summarizing data by category
Rewriting code using dplyr












Logistical overview


As in the previous chapter, all exercises will be completed using a single R script
               called dplyr_intro.R. This chapter will include two demonstrations. The first of these is a comparison
               of fuel economy and gas prices. The second demonstration is a rewrite of some of the
               work from Chapter 6 using the dplyr library.
            
The finished product from this chapter, along with all of the exercises from this
               book, is available in the code folder of the external resources. All of the external
               resources in this book can be accessed from the Google Drive folder at the following
               link: https://goo.gl/8S58ra.
            











Data


For the demonstrations in this chapter three datasets will be used. The first of these
               is a dataset of fuel economy data for various vehicle models. The fuel economy dataset
               is made available by the U.S. Department of Energy. The fuel economy dataset has a
               large number of non descriptive data variables, so I've also included a link to the
               description of the data in the external resources.
            
The second dataset used is a dataset of gas prices, made available by the U.S. Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics.
The third dataset is the artificial road length data used in the previous chapters.
               This dataset contains the total amount of road length by year in hypothetical regions
               of a hypothetical country. 
            
All three datasets can be accessed and downloaded from the data folder in the external resources. 
            











File system setup


As with the previous chapter, this chapter only requires a single project folder called
               ch7 with a data folder called data. All datasets for this chapter should be placed in the data folder. The R script for this chapter should be created from within R and saved in
               the ch7 project folder.
            











Installing the dplyr and tibble packages


You can install an R package by entering the install.packages() function into the RStudio console, with the package name as a parameter. To install
               dplyr and tibble, enter the following commands into the console:
            
> install.packages('dplyr')> install.packages('tibble')
That's it! 
Just in case anything changes, I've included installation instructions in the external
               resources as well. 
            











Introducing dplyr


According to the dplyr documentation at http://dplyr.tidyverse.org/, dplyr is a grammar of data manipulation, providing a consistent set of verbs that help you solve the most common data manipulation
                  challenges, as follows:
            

mutate(): Adds new variables that are functions of existing variables
               
select(): Picks variables based on their names
               
filter(): Picks cases based on their values
               
summarize(): Reduces multiple values down to a single summary
               
arrange(): Changes the ordering of the rows
               
group_by(): Allows you to perform any operation by group
               

While each of the verbs corresponds to a particular function in dplyr, a verb can be thought of more generally as particular action that transform the
               data in a certain way.
            
In addition to the verbs listed here, there is also functionality in dplyr that can
               be used to merge (or join) data from different sources though I won't be covering these features here.
            
In the following sections, I will demonstrate each of these functions individually
               through two demonstrations. In the first of these demonstrations, I will use dplyr to process data about fuel economy and gas prices. Ultimately, I will use the process
               data to create visualizations that compare trends in fuel economy to trends in gas
               prices. 
            











Getting started with dplyr


To start off with, I will create an R script called dplyr_intro.R and set up my R environment. First, you should set your working directory to the
               ch7 project folder. Next, you should read the fuel economyhttps://catalog.data.gov/dataset/consumer-price-index-average-price-data
               dataset into a dataframe as follows:
            
setwd("path/to/your/project/folder")vehicles<-read.csv("data/vehicles.csv")
The next step is to import the dplyr and tibble packages. In R, you can import a package using the library() function. The following lines import the dplyr package and the tibble package:
            
library('dplyr')library('tibble')
I will start with the select() function. The select() function allows you to select a certain number of columns from a dataframe and returns another dataframe containing
               only those selected columns. As its first argument, the select() function takes a dataframe. The following arguments to the select() function after the first argument are the names of the columns to be selected from
                  the original dataframe. The result is a dataframe containing only the selected columns.
Though I won't be using them here, dplyr provides a few functions to make it possible to select columns as a function of their
               name or position. These include starts_with(), ends_with(), contains(), matches() and num_range(). These functions can be helpful when working with datasets that contain a large number
               of columns. Details are available in the documentation at http://dplyr.tidyverse.org/reference/select.html.
            
With the fuel economy dataset, one use of the select() function might be to create a dataframe that just contains the product details for
               each car. In the following continuation of dplyr_intro.R, I use the select() function to select the make, model, and year columns from the vehicles dataframe: 
            
vehicles.product <- select(data,make,model,year)print(Vehicles.product)
Running the previous lines should create a dataframe containing just the product information
               and produce a printout of the dataframe as follows:
            

You can make the printout a bit more elegant by converting the result to a tibble object as follows:
            
## the same thing as a tibblevehicles.product.as.tibble <- as_tibble(  select(vehicles,make,model,year))print(vehicles.product.as.tibble)
Printing out the tibble version of the dataframe, as is done in the previous lines, will produce a much cleaner
               result, as follows:
            

Now that the product information for each of the data entries is available, it may
               be helpful to arrange the rows in a particular order. Arranging the order of the rows
               could be particularly helpful if the data will need to be viewed or processed manually.
            
The arrange() function arranges the rows in a particular order by column. The following code will
               arrange the vehicle product data first by make, then by model, and then by year:
            
vehicles.product.arranged <- as.tibble(  arrange(vehicles.product,make,model,year))print(vehicles.product.arranged)
The arranged version of the product data is organized in alphabetical order by make and model,
               and then by year, as follows:
            


So far, I've performed two operations on the original fuel economy data. First, I
                  selected the columns relevant to the vehicle product information. Then I arranged
                  the rows by make, model, and year. Conducting these steps required two separate chunks of code and two separate variables.
                  The following is what the code looks like so far:
               
## select the product info from the carvehicles.product <- as_tibble(  select(vehicles,make,model,year))## arrange the rows of the vehicle product datavehicles.product.arranged <- as.tibble(  arrange(vehicles.product,make,model,year))
This may seem fairly legible, but when there are several consecutive processing steps
                     the code can become quite hard to follow. In the following section, I will introduce a new syntax for chaining operations together
                     to make the larger amounts of code more legible.












Chaining operations together


Part of the expressive power of dplyr comes from its ability to chain data processing operations one after the other. The %>% symbol can be used with dplyr functions to chain together operations. The way it works is that the result of all
                  of the expression before the %>% symbol is used as the first argument of the function that comes after the %>% symbol. In the following demonstration, I use the %>% symbol to put together the select and arrange operations:
            
vehicles.product.arranged <- as_tibble(  vehicles %>% ## start with the original data  select(make,model,year,cylinders) %>% ## select the columns  arrange(make,model,year) ## arrange the rows)
The previous chain of operations starts with the vehicles dataframe containing the original data. The vehicles dataframe is then followed by the %>% symbol, so it is passed as the first argument to the following function, which is
               the select() function. As such, the first argument of the select() function does not need to be specified, because the function comes after the %>% symbol. The select() function then returns a dataframe that becomes the first argument to the arrange() function. The output of the arrange() function is the result of the overall expression. 
In this way, it is possible to express a series of transformations much more cohesively.
               As data processing steps add up, the %>% operator can go a long way to make code more manageable.
            
Another very useful feature dplyr is the ability to filter the rows of a dataframe based on their values. In the following
               section, I will introduce the filter() function of the dplyr package.
            











Filtering the rows of a dataframe


You can filter rows as a function of the content of a row using the filter() function. (Recall from the previous chapters that you used filtering steps to remove
               outliers and NA values.)
            
In the filter() function, each of the arguments following the first is what the documentation refers
               to as a logical predicate. In other words, each of the arguments are assertions that some logical expression
                  should be true.
The logical expressions used for filtering are defined in terms of the column names
                  of the input dataframe.  Here are some possible examples of logical predicates that
                  could be used as arguments to the filter() function:

column.name > 6
column.name == "abc"
!is.na( column.name )

A good application of the filter() function to the fuel economy dataset could be to find data for just one model. There
                  is likely a lot of variation in the fuel economy data from model to model, so we could
                  get a more consistent result by just focusing on one model.
In the following continuation of dplyr_intro.R, all of rows corresponding to the Toyota Camry model are selected from the original dataset using the filter() function. To keep the printout neat, the only the make, model, and year columns are
                  selected for now: 
## filter data to just the toyota camryvehicles.camry <- as.tibble(  car_data %>%   filter(    make == "Toyota",    model=="Camry"  ) %>%  select(make,model,year))print(vehicles.camry)
Printing the filtered data will reveal a list of entries, where the make and model
               are Toyota and Camry respectively:
            

Not surprisingly, there are multiple entries for each make, model, and year; likely due to different sizes, trims, engines, and so on. In order to get a general
               sense of how the fuel economy changes year to year, one possible approach is to find
               the average fuel economy across all of the variations of Camry by year. This isn't a very accurate measure, since it does not account for the number
               of sales of each variation, but it may be enough to see a general trend which is worth
               exploring further.
            
In the next section, I will show how to use the group_by() and summarize() functions together in order to create a new dataframe that summarizes the data by
               group. In particular, the group_by() and summarize() functions used together will allow you to create a new dataframe with the yearly
               average fuel consumption across all of the Toyota Camry variations. 
            











Summarizing data by category


The summarize() function reduces the columns of a dataframe to a summary. The arguments to the summarize() function are expressions which create new variables a function of the rows of other
               columns. Here are a couple examples of possible arguments to the summarize() function:
            

avg.column.1 = mean(column.1) 
               
sum.column.2 = sum(column.2)

The group_by() function causes all of the subsequent operations to be performed by group. The arguments to the group_by() function are the names of columns that the result should be grouped by. When the
               group_by() function is followed by the summarize() function, the summary is applied to each unique group. 
            
The best way to understand the group_by() function is with a demonstration. In the following continuation of dplyr_intro.R, the fuel economy data is grouped by year and summarized by the mean value of barrels08. Additionally, the filter() function is used to  filter the data to include only Toyota Camry models.
            
The barrels08 column is an estimate of the annual fuel consumption. In the external resources I've
                  included a link to the reference for the data variables in the fuel economy dataset.
### find the average fuel consumption by year:camry.fuel_economy.by_year <- as_tibble(  vehicles %>%   group_by(year) %>%  filter(    make=="Toyota",    model=="Camry"  ) %>%  summarize(    avg.annual.consumption = mean(barrels08)  ))print(camry.fuel_economy.by_year)
The result is a dataframe containing two columns. The first of these columns is called year. The year column is the result of the year parameter passed to the group_by() function, which caused the summarize() function to create a summary of the data for each year. Each row of data represents
               an individual year.
            
The second column, avg.annual.consumption, is a result of the expression in the summarize() function, which assigns the mean of the barrels08 column to the avg.annual.consumption variable. Each row in the data corresponds to a single year and contains the mean
               value of barrels08 for all variations in the corresponding year.
            
The following is what the camry.fuel_economy.by_year dataframe looks like when it is printed:
            

In the following continuation of dplyr_intro.R, the plot() function is used in order to visualize the data. The type=l parameter is specified
               in the call to the plot function to indicate that it should be a line plot.
            
plot(camry.fuel_economy.by_year,type='l')
Plotting the data shows an upward trend in annual vehicle fuel consumption from about
               1985 to 1995, and a downward trend in annual vehicle fuel consumption from about 1995
               to the present. This trend is the average across all Toyota Camry variations.
            

Next, let's compare the Camry fuel efficiency to the gas prices in USD over the same
               time period to see if there might be a relationship between fuel economy and gas prices.
               First, at the beginning of the dplyr_intro.R script, the gas_prices.csv dataset is read to an R dataframe as follows:
            
gas_prices <- read.csv("data/gas_prices.csv")
The next task is to get the gas price by year over the same time period as the fuel
               economy data. Because the data is given by year and month, the maximum fuel price
               for each year should be sufficient to show the general trend. The Camry fuel economy
               data begins in 1984, so the gas price data should be filtered so that it is from 1984 to the present. In the following continuation of dplyr_intro.R the group_by() function, the filter() function, and the summarize() function are used to get the maximum gas prices for each year:
            
gas_prices.by_year <- as.tibble(  gas_prices %>%  group_by(year) %>%  select(year,value) %>%  filter(year>=1984) %>%  summarize(    max_price = max(value)  ))
The result is a dataframe with a year column and a max_price column:
            

Finally, the gas_prices.by_year dataframe is visualized using a line plot in the same way that as the fuel economy: 
            
plot(gas_prices.by_year,type='l')
Plotting the gas price data shows an upward trend starting at around 1995; about the time that the average fuel economy of the Toyota Camry started its downward
               trend:
            

This isn't really a significant finding in and of itself because the vehicle fuel
               economy data does not account for sales by model, and because correlation does not
               imply causation. However, the previous demonstration shows the power of dplyr to easily manipulate datasets and draw insight. The dplyr package not only enables you to easily express a number of heavy processing steps,
               but it allows you to do so in a language that is easy to read and comprehend.
            
At this point, you should have everything you need to estimate the total road length
               in 2011 (the exercise from the previous chapter) using code that is more concise and easier
               to follow. In the following section, I will revisit the project one last time using
               the dplyr library. 
            











Rewriting code using dplyr


In the previous chapter, R was used to find the estimate of the total road length
               in 2011. Here are the steps that were completed in the previous chapter, written using dplyr verbs:
            

Filter out the rows with a mean greater than 2000
Filter out the rows in which all values are NA
               
Mutate the 2011 column to create a copy in which the NA values are replaced with the row mean
               
Select the new 2011 column and find the sum of its values
               

At the beginning of dplyr_intro.R, the first step should be to read artificial_roads_by_region.csv to an R dataframe as follows:
            
roads.lengths <- read.csv("data/artificial_roads_by_region.csv")
Next, In the following continuation of dplyr_intro.R, a copy of the original roads length data called roads.length2 is created. The row averages and the row sums of the roads.length2 dataframe are calculated and added as columns to the dataframe. These columns will
               help with the filtering steps.
            
roads.lengths2<-roads.lengthsroads.lengths2$mean_val <- rowMeans(  roads.lengths[,-1],  na.rm = TRUE)roads.lengths2$row_total<-rowSums(  roads.lengths[,-1],  na.rm=TRUE)
Putting all of the steps together using dplyr functions, in the following continuation of dplyr_intro.R, the 2011 road length estimate is calculated:
            
roads.2011.estimate <-   roads.lengths2 %>%    filter(      mean_val<2000,      row_total>0    )%>%    mutate(      X2011.new=ifelse(      is.na(X2011),      mean_val,      X2011    )    ) %>%    select(      X2011.new    )  print(sum(roads.2011.estimate))
The result is 808648.3, the same as in the previous chapter!
            











Summary


In summary, the dplyr package builds on the R language to make an even more expressive and concise language
                  for data manipulation. In this chapter, the estimate for the total road length in
                  2011 is the same as in the previous chapter, but the code used to get there is more concise
                  and easier to follow. This can mean less time spent on navigating numerous processing
                  steps and variable names, and more time spent organizing the data.
This concludes the second section of this book, which dealt with a more formulated
               approach to data wrangling. If you've read up to this point, congratulations! You
               now have a broad understanding of the tools, approaches, and skills involved in manipulating
               data.
            
In the remaining part of the book, I will discuss advanced methods for retrieving
               and storing data. First, large sources of data are often made available through web
               interfaces called APIs. I will discuss how to use APIs to retrieve data in the next chapter.
            
Second, working with large amounts of data is sometimes made easier with the use of
               databases. In Chapter 9, Working with Large Datasets, I will introduce databases and show you how they can be used to store and quickly
               retrieve large amounts of data. 
            











Getting Data from the Web


It is convenient to contain and distribute small amounts of data using static files.
               Files work well for sources of data that are low volume, self contained, and infrequently
               updated. Many sources of data, however, are a part of massive web applications or
               data archives that are updated constantly. Sources, such as Wikipedia and Seeclickfix,
               that store data in large databases will often make their data available through APIs (application programming interfaces) that allow users to retrieve small selections of the data. In fact, the Seeclickfix
               and Wikipedia datasets used in previous chapters were obtained using APIs.
            
In this chapter, I will walk through the steps of using Python to retrieve the data
               from the Seeclickfix API. This chapter will include the following sections:
            

Logistical overview
Introducing APIs
Using Python to retrieve data from APIs
Using URL parameters to filter the results












Logistical overview


In this chapter, I will do a demonstration of the steps used to retrieve Seeclickfix
               data from the Seeclickfix API. While the resulting datasets are not exactly the same
               as those used in the previous chapters, they are quite similar. In this chapter, I
               will demonstrate two Python programs. The first, get_recent_issues.py, is used to access the Seeclickfix API from Python, retrieve data, and output a JSON
               file with the data.
            
The second script, get_scf_date_range.py, is used to retrieve data from the issue reports that occurred on the first day of
               January 2017. The get_scf_date_range.py script will output a CSV file with the data.
            
This chapter will be different from the other chapters in a couple of ways. First,
               because the data for the chapter is retrieved over the internet as a part of the demonstrations,
               there are no input data files that are used with the demonstrations.
            
Second, because APIs are outside of my control, and subject to change, I've made a
               version of this chapter available online that can be updated as needed. The link to
               online version of the chapter is made available in the Links and Further Reading document in the external resources.
            
All of the external resources for this book are available at the following link: https://goo.gl/8S58ra.
            











Filesystem setup


For this chapter, there is no input data, however, there are output data files. For
               this chapter, you should create a project folder containing an output_data folder to contain the output data. The setup that I will use is as follows:
            
chapter8/-->get_recent_issues.py-->get_scf_date_range.py---->output_data/











Installing the requests module


For this chapter, you will need the Python requests module. I've included installation
               instructions for the requests module in the Installation document in the external
               resources. 
            











Internet connection


Another difference between this chapter and the others is that the Python scripts
               used in this chapter retrieve data over the internet. In order for the Python scripts
               to work properly, you will need a stable internet connection while they are running. 
            











Introducing APIs


Most communication over the web is done using http protocol, which specifies a set of request/response protocols for exchanging data
               between a client and a server. The client, which is often a web browser, submits a request for data from the server,
               and the server sends a response. Typically, the response is an HTML web page. The
               response, however, can also be data in some text format.
            
The most popular types of requests are get requests and post requests. In this chapter, I will just cover get requests, which will be used to retrieve data from the API. A get request is a request that asks for data from the server. 
            
An API specifies a URL and a set of variables that can be used to retrieve data using http requests. The following is the URL where the Seeclickfix API is located: https://Seeclickfix.com/api/v2.
            
When you go to the Seeclickfix API URL in a web browser, or to any website for that
               matter, the web browser submits a get request to the URL. If the get request is successful, the web browser will display the response, which is usually
               a web page. When you go to the base URL of the API, you will notice that the result
               is not a web page, but rather a collection of JSON data:
            

The JSON data here isn't that important, but it's worth noting that the response from
               the server is in JSON format. This will make it possible to easily retrieve and process
               the data from the API.
            
In order to retrieve actual data from the API, you will need to be a bit more specific.
               The Seeclickfix API is divided by resource. In addition to data on issue reports,
               the Seeclickfix API also has data relating to geographic regions and users of the
               platform. The reason I know this is that the Seeclickfix API, like most APIs, makes
               documentation available. The documentation describes in detail the API and its usage.
               The Seeclickfix API documentation website is available at http://dev.seeclickfix.com/. 
            
On the right side of the main documentation page is a panel listing more specific
               sections of the documentation, including a section for issues:
            

I would encourage you to look explore the documentation for the Seeclickfix API and
               other APIs to get a sense for how they are set up. For now I will just go straight
               to the page for issues since that is the resource that I am looking for. This brings
               me to http://dev.seeclickfix.com/v2/issues/, where at the top of the page is a URL for listing issue reports:
            

The previous notation means that submitting a get request to the URL will return a list of issues. Recall that navigating to a URL in a browser causes the browser to submit a get request to the server at that URL. In order to test out the URL, try going to https://seeclickfix.com/api/v2/issues in a browser. Doing so should now reveal a JSON dataset containing a list of issues:
            

At this point, it is possible to copy and paste the data into a JSON file, or, in
               most browsers, to save the page as a JSON file directly. In the next section though,
               I will show how Python can be used to retrieve data from the API and store the data
               in a JSON file. Eventually, I will demonstrate how working within Python allows you
               to go a step further to retrieve more custom data selections.
            











Using Python to retrieve data from APIs


The first step is to import the requests module. I will also import the json module, which can be used to output the data retrieved from the API to a JSON file. In the beginning of get_recent_issues.py, the following code imports the requests and json modules:
            
import requestsimport json
The next step is to create a string called base URL. The base URL is the beginning part of the URL, and can be followed by additional
               parameters. For now, the base URL is all you need, but in the next section you will
               build on it in order get data iteratively. In the following continuation of get_recent_issues.py, a string is created containing the base URL for the issues resource of the Seeclickfix API:
            
import requestsimport json## build a base url which is the endpoint to the api## for this script, this is all you needbase_url = "https://seeclickfix.com/api/v2/issues?"
The next step is to replicate the action of the browser. In other words, you will
               need to submit a get request to the URL and store the response. This can be done using the requests.get() function of the requests module, which takes as an argument a URL string and returns a response object containing the information in the response from the server. In the following
               continuation of get_recent_issues.py, the requests module is used to submit a get request to the base URL:
            
....base_url = "https://seeclickfix.com/api/v2/issues?"## submit a get request to the URL and ## collect the response in the response objectresponse = requests.get(base_url)
An http response contains additional information besides the main content. The requests module
               parses the response into its various components. Because the body of this particular
               response is expected to be in JSON format, you can use the response.json() function of a response object to both extract the JSON text, and parse the text into a Python data structure. 
            
At this point, it may be worth doing a bit of exploration of the data in the response,
               though I will simply save the result to a file for now. In the following continuation
               of get_recent_issues.py, the response.json() method is used to extract the response body, which is then saved to a JSON file:
response = requests.get(base_url)## use the json module to write the response data## from the api into a json filefout = open("output_data/scf_recent_issues.json","w")json.dump(response.json(),fout,indent=4)fout.close()
Running get_recent_issues.py should now produce an output JSON file containing the 10 most recent issues reported
               on the Seeclickfix platform:
            

This covers how to get data within Python, but it does not take advantage of the programming
               interface that Python offers. In the next section, I will demonstrate the use of URL
               parameters to retrieve larger and more specific collections of data.
            











Using URL parameters to filter the results


In this section, I will retrieve all of the issue reports from the Seeclickfix API
               that occurred on the first day of January 2017. To start with, I will create a new
               file called get_scf_date_range.py, and import the requests module and the csv as follows:
            
import requestsimport csv
The goal will be to gather all of the issue reports that occur during the first day
               of January 2017 and to store the results in a CSV file. In order to do this, you will
               need to make use of URL parameters. URL parameters are custom values that are added on to the end of a URL to further specify the get request.
            
The Seeclickfix API documentation on the issues resource shows a number of URL parameters that can be used. After looking through
               the Seeclickfix API documentation at http://dev.seeclickfix.com/v2/issues/, you may identify three particular parameters that are of use. The first two of these
               are the after and before parameters: 
            

These parameters can be used to specify that the results should be after January 01,
               2017 and before January 02, 2017. URL parameters are specified after a base URL using
               the following syntax:
            
<url>?<parameter1>=<value1>&<parameter2>=<value2>
In the following continuation of get_scf_date_range.py, the URL parameters are added to the URL string to restrict the results so that they
               only contain data for the first date of January 2017:
            
import requestsimport csvurl = "https://seeclickfix.com/api/v2/issues?"## restrict the result to issues after January 2017url+="after=2017-01-01T00:00:00"## restrict the result to issues before February 2017url+="&before=2017-01-02T00:00:00"
The third parameter that will be of use is the page parameter:
            

The page parameter allows you to get data that is beyond the initial set of results, in the
               following continuation of get_scf_date_range.py, I've added the page parameter to the URL string, but left it blank:
....url+="&before=2017-01-02T00:00:00"## leave the page parameter empty so that it## can be dynamically changedurl+="&page="
Rather than specifying just one page for the page parameter, the strategy I will use is to make a number of repetitive get requests, each containing a subsequent page number. This way, it is possible to get
               multiple pages of the data instead of just one. 
            
However, before conducting the get requests, I will do some initial setup, creating the output file and specifying data
               variables to be extracted. In the following continuation of get_scf_date_range.py, an array of column headers is created. These column headers will also be used as
                  keys to extract the desired data variables from the original data retrieved from the
                  API. A new output file is then opened and used to create a writer object. The column headers are then written to the first row of the output file:
....url+="&page="## create a list of field names that should be extractedfields=["created_at","closed_at","summary","address"]## open the output file and create a writer## write the column headers to the output filefout = open("output_data/scf_date_range_issues.csv","w")writer=csv.writer(fout)writer.writerow(fields)fout.close() 
The next step is to perform the get requests, page by page. To set up this process, in the following continuation of get_scf_date_range.py, I will first create a variable called page to contain the page number, and a variable called data containing the extracted data from the http response:
            
....writer.writerow(fields)## initialize the page and data variablespage=1data=requests.get(base_url+str(page)).json()["issues"]fout.close()
The next bit of code will require a Python tool that hasn't been covered yet in this
                  book, the while loop. A while loop works like a for loop, except it runs continuously until a certain
                  condition is met. The condition is specified in the clause header of the while loop.
                  You can read about while loops in the Python documentation at the following link:

                     https://docs.python.org/3/reference/compound_stmts.html#while
Next, in the following continuation of get_scf_date_range.py, a while loop is created to continuously increase the page number and submit get requests until there is no more data left. If there is data, each data entry is converted
               to an array and written to the output CSV file:
            
....data=requests.get(base_url+str(page)).json()["issues"]## go page by page until there is no datawhile len(data)>0:    ## if there is data, iterate over the    ## data entries, writing the result to the output    for entry in data:        row=[]        for field in fields:            row.append(entry[field])        writer.writerow(row)    ## in each iteration of the loop,    ## increase the page number and get    ## the data for the subsequent page    page+=1    data=requests.get(base_url+str(page)).json()["issues"]fout.close()
Now, running get_scf_date_range.py will produce a CSV dataset containing information on all of the issue reports in
               the first day of 2017:
            












Summary


In summary, APIs are an excellent way of retrieving data that is otherwise hard to
               get, and being able to work with APIs gives you access to a large range of datasets,
               particularly when working from within a programming language such as Python. This chapter was about retrieving data from particularly large data
               sources.
            
The next chapter will be about processing particularly large data files. When processing
               data files that are larger than a certain size, there are a few things to take into
               consideration. In the next (and final) chapter, I discuss how to use databases to
               store large datasets and how to manage memory while processing them.
            











Working with Large Datasets


All of the approaches to data wrangling that have been covered in this book are good
               for processing datasets that are sufficiently small. Once datasets reach a certain
               size, however, a different approach may be required. For even larger collections of
               data, data mining techniques may be more appropriate.
            
In this chapter, I will discuss the approaches to working with datasets that are not
               too big to be processed on a single computer, but are too big to be read into memory
               all at once. I will discuss computer memory and introduce databases as a means of
               storing data. This chapter will include the following sections:

Logistical Overview
Understanding computer memory
Understanding databases
Introducing MongoDB
Interfacing with MongoDB from Python












Logistical overview 


This chapter will include two demonstrations. The first of these will show you how
               to import data into the MongoDB database and how to update the data. This will not
               require any code files, but it will require some setup, which is detailed in the following
               subsections.
            
The second demonstration will show you how to interface with MongoDB from within Python,
               and using a Python script called process_large_data.py. The finished code is available in the code folder of the external resources.
            
All of the external resources are available at the following link: https://goo.gl/8S58ra.
            











System requirements


To follow along with the exercises, you should have at least 25 GB of disk space free.
               If disk space is a limiting factor, you can still follow along using a smaller version
               of the dataset, as I will explain in the next section. 
            











Data


To demonstrate working with large datasets, I've created an artificial dataset, fake_weather_data.csv, containing fake weather data since 1980. The dataset is indeed quite large (4 GB),
               and importing the data into a database will take up even more memory. If you are limited
               by disk space or do not want to wait for the data to be processed, you may alternatively
               use a smaller version of the dataset called fake_weather_data_small.csv along with the demonstrations. If you use the smaller dataset, be sure to change
                  the filename in the demonstrations accordingly. 
The data for this chapter is available in the data folder of the external resources.
            











File system setup


For this chapter, there should be just one project folder containing process_large_data.py, the Python code for the second demonstration. The project folder should also contain
               a data folder containing the Chapter 9 dataset.
            











Installing MongoDB


To follow along with the demonstrations in this chapter, you will need to install
               and set up MongoDB. You will need both the database and the server installed, and
               you will need to have an instance of the server running on your computer.
            
For process_large_data.py, you will also need to install pymongo, a Python module for interfacing with MongoDB.
Links and guidelines for installation are available in the Installation document in the external resources.
            











Planning out your time


Several of the activities in this chapter will take quite some time, so as you follow
               along with the demonstrations, be prepared to do something else while you wait for
               certain processes to complete.
            











Cleaning up


Lastly, if you use the larger dataset, you will end up using a lot of memory on your
               system (20 GB or more). Be sure to delete the data and databases when you are done
               if you would like to free up the disk space. Additionally, in the installation instructions
               for MongoDB I've also included instructions to shut down the MongoDB server when you
               are done. 
            











Understanding computer memory


To make sense of why processing large files requires a new approach, I will briefly
               discuss computer memory and databases here. Feel free to skip ahead if you are familiar
               with how memory and databases work. 
            
In computer hardware, memory is the medium that stores data, programs, and files. The hardware for computer memory
               is split into primary storage, which generally takes the form of RAM (random access memory), and secondary storage, which generally takes the form of a hard drive. Primary storage is used for storing the machine code and the data of active programs,
               while secondary storage is used for storing all data and files not currently in use.
               This division in memory usage reflects a few differences in the hardware used for
               each.
            
The first difference is that RAM (used for primary storage) is cleared when the computer
               is shut down, while data stored on hard drives (used for secondary storage) persists.
               The second difference is that data stored on RAM is much faster to access and modify
               then data stored on a hard disk. The third difference, which follows on from the second,
               is that RAM is more expensive per unit of storage capacity. Because RAM is more expensive,
               it is likely that significantly more data can fit on your computer's hard drive then
               on your computer's active memory. (This may not necessarily be the case for some computers
               which rely on cloud storage.)
            
When a computer program is run, the program lives in the computer's RAM along with all of the data that it uses. When a collection of data is not in use, it lives on the computer's hard drive. Because
               the RAM available to a computer is limited, so is the amount of data that a computer
               program can use at once. Most operating systems don't limit the amount of memory that
               a program can use, so reading too much data will usually cause your computer to crash.
               This is why there is a limit to the amount of data that can be processed at once.
            
Most operating systems have an interface to monitor RAM usage. The following is my
               computer's memory monitor:
            

My computer is fairly old, so I have 4 GB of RAM (that was a lot at the time I bought
                  it). At the time of writing this, 4 GB to 16 GB seems to be the general range for
                  RAM on newer laptops. When I took the previous screenshot of my computer's memory
                  monitor, I was using about 39% of the RAM (taken up by some browser tabs).
The green line (Swap) represents some additional space allocated on the hard drive that can be used in
                  case the RAM gets full. This is a Linux feature that can be helpful, but I won't cover
                  it here since it is specific to Linux. 
The dataset for this chapter is about 4 GB large, so even if I weren't already using
                  39% of the RAM, there wouldn't be enough space to read all of the data. Data takes more memory when used by a program than when it is stored in a static file.
                  This is because it is represented by a data structure and not just by text. 
To demonstrate how a program can use up RAM, I've created a program, available in
                  the external resources, called dont_do_this.py. As the name would suggest, you should not run the program on your computer (or you
                  should do so at your own risk). The dont_do_this.py program reads data line by line and appends each row to a Python list. The Python
                  list called myData grows either until the program completes or until there is no more RAM left available
                  on the computer, causing the computer to crash. The following is the code for dont_do_this.py:
## this may crash your computer,## so use this code for demonstration purposes,## or run at your own risk (without any unsaved work open)import csvmyData=[]fin = open('data/fake_weather_data.csv','r',newline='')reader = csv.reader(fin)for row in reader:    myData.append(row)
When I run dont_do_this.py on my computer, the RAM usage quickly ramps up as the Python program collects more
                  and more of the data. I took the following screenshot of the memory monitor after
                  running the program for about a minute:

If I had left the program running, it would have crashed the computer in another minute
               or so. After cancelling the program, the RAM usage quickly drops back to around 40%,
               as the following screenshot shows:
            

The point here is that data uses memory, and there is a limited amount of it. Rather
               than reading in a whole data file, sufficiently large datasets should be processed line by line so that they does not use all of the computer's
               memory.
            











Understanding databases


In addition to using plenty of memory, large amounts of data can also take a long
               time to process. In some cases, it may make sense to process a large dataset from one input file to another output
               file. Data wrangling, however, is often an iterative process, involving back and forth
               between data analysis and modification. It can be hard to iterate with a large dataset using a Python script. This is where database management systems can be helpful. 
            
A database simply refers to an organized collection of data. In contrast to files, databases
               are typically organized structurally to index each of the documents (another word for data entry) making it faster to retrieve specific documents or
               groups of documents. A database management system is software for interfacing with
               a database to do the following:
            

Retrieve data from a database
Modify data in a database
Write data to a database

Database management systems define a language for analyzing and modifying data that
               does not require you to read all of the data into memory at once, or to write a separate
               program. This can make database management systems an excellent tool for working with
               large datasets. In the next section, I will introduce a database management system
               called MongoDB and do a basic demonstration of some of its features.
            











Introducing MongoDB


MongoDB is what is referred to as a NoSQL database, which refers to a data model that is not tabular, as opposed to relational databases which are tabular. The structure of data in MongoDB is analogous to JSON,
               with each of the documents consisting of key-value pairs.
            
Once you have MongoDB set up on your computer and you have the MongoDB server running,
               you can import your data into a database using the mongoimport terminal command. The mongoimport command will take data from a static file, parse the data, and place the data into
               a database. The documentation for mongoimport is available at the following link: https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/program/mongoimport/.
            
There are a few parameters that need to be specified along with the mongoimport command. The first of these is the name of the input file which should be written
               after the --file parameter. The command should be run in a terminal from the directory containing
               fake_weather_data.csv, so the filename is specified by the following:
            
$ mongoimport --file fake_weather_data.csv
Next, since you are importing data from a CSV file, you will need to specify --type csv in order to indicate a CSV file. In addition, the --headerline parameter should be specified to indicate that the field names to be used are those
               specified in the first line of the CSV file.
            
Lastly, documents in MongoDB are organized under two levels:

MongoDB documents belong to a collection within MongoDB
               
MongoDB collections belong to a database

As such, you will need to specify a name for the database with the --database parameter and a name for the collection with the --collection parameter. I will use weather for the database name and records for the collection name. 
            
The following is the finished command to import the CSV data into MongoDB. Note that
               the import will take some time to complete (possibly a few hours depending on your
               system), so you may want to do something else for a little while while it finishes.
               Also note that you will need plenty of available storage on your hard drive (15 or
               so GB) in order to complete the import:
            
$ mongoimport --file fake_weather_data.csv --type csv --headerline --db weather --collection records
Once the import is finished, the data is stored in the computer's hard drive in a
               database file that can be interfaced using MongoDB. To use MongoDB, you can enter
               a mongo shell from the terminal by entering the following command:
            
$ mongo
Inside the Mongo shell, you can write commands to interact directly with the database.
               To start with, you can use the following command to indicate the database which you
               would like to interact with: 
            
> use weather
After selecting the database, the following will count the number of documents in
               the records collection:
            
> db.records.count()
The following will retrieve and display a single document:
> db.records.findOne()
The following screenshot is the result of running the previous commands in the mongo
               shell on my computer:
            

MongoDB has a powerful language for querying and modifying documents in a collection,
               so I've included a link to the MongoDB documentation in the external resources for further
                  reading. Rather than attempt to cover everything here, I will do a simple demonstration to
               change is_cloudy and is_sunny from integers to logical data types.
            
It is possible to update multiple documents in a collection using the update() function. The first argument to the update() function is a filter that selects which data should be updated. Commands in MongoDB
               are written a bit like Python dictionaries. The simplest filter is one in which a
               particular field has a particular value, and is written as follows:
            
 {<fieldname>:<value>}
In order to select all of the fields where is_sunny is 1, you can use the following as the first argument to the updateMany() function:
            
{ is_sunny : 1 }
The next argument to the update() function is a structure that specifies the update that should take place. This takes
               the following form:
            
{ <update operator> : { <field> : <value> } }
The update operator to set a new value is $set. The second argument, which specifies that the is_sunny field should be set to true, as follows:
            
{ $set : { is_sunny : true } }
A third argument should be passed to the update() function that specifies that the operation should update multiple documents and not
               just one. Putting it all together, the following command will change the values of
               the is_sunny field from 1 to true where the value was 1 to begin with:
            
> db.records.update( { is_sunny : 1}, { $set : { is_sunny : true} }, { multi : true } )
This will also take some time to finish. When it does finish, however, you can verify
               that the value of is_sunny is either 0 or true by running db.records.find(). The following is the output on my computer:
            

If you wanted to, you could easily repeat this step to change 0 to false for the is_cloudy and is_sunny fields. This step isn't really necessary, though, as it will just take more time. After
               you are done with the demonstration, and with any personal exploration, you can remove
               the data from the database by running the following:
            
> db.records.remove({})
While MongoDB is quite powerful, it does not have the full capability of a programming
                  language. In the next section, I will demonstrate how to interface MongoDB with Python
                  to achieve the same result. Using Python to import data to MongoDB gives you the ability
                  to process data as it is placed in the database. 











Interfacing with MongoDB from Python


Python can connect to MongoDB using the pymongo module. To start off with, I will create a file called process_large_data.py and import the pymongo and csv modules. You will need to import both pymongo and MongoClient as I have done in the demonstration:
            
import csvimport pymongofrom pymongo import MongoClient
MongoClient takes care of establishing a connection and interfacing with the database system.
               The following steps in process_large_data.py will create an object assigned to the collection variable, which can be used to insert
               documents into the database:
            
....from pymongo import MongoClient## create a MongoClient object,## used to connect and interface## with mongodbclient = MongoClient()## these two lines create a collection## object which allows you to interface## with a particular collectiondb = client.weathercollection = db["records2"]
The only thing left to do now is to read the data line by line and insert each row
               as a record into the database. This is where the csv module becomes quite useful. Recall that the Python's csv module reads CSV data row by row and not all at once. This means that using the csv module, it is possible to process a CSV dataset without reading the entire dataset
               into memory.
            
In the following continuation of process_large_data.py, a CSV reader is created and used to read the data. In each iteration of the loop,
                  the insert_one() function of the collection object is used to write the next row to a document in the collection:
            
....collection = db["records2"]## read data line by line and ## insert each row as a document ## into the database collectionfin = open("data/fake_weather_data.csv","r",newline="")reader = csv.DictReader(fin)for row in reader:    collection.insert_one(row)fin.close()
Running process_large_data.py should now have the same effect as the mongoimport command did before. Processing the data in Python gives you more control over the
                  control over the data import process. For example, it is now possible to modify the
                  code so that the is_sunny and is_cloudy values are changed to logical before the data is placed in the database. 
            
Once you are finished, you can delete the database by running the following in a mongo
               shell:
            
> use weather> db.records2.remove({})
For further reading on MongoDB, databases, and working with large data files, you can refer
               to the Links and Further Reading document in the external resources at https://goo.gl/8S58ra.
            











Summary


In summary, as datasets become larger and larger, it becomes important to consider
               how to manage memory while processing data, and how to store data to make it easy
               to work with and retrieve. Sufficiently large datasets should be processed entry by
               entry and not as a whole in order to preserve memory. For datasets that will need
               to be accessed frequently, it can be helpful to store and retrieve the data through
               a local database instance. This concludes the third and final section of Practical Data Wrangling! Congratulations!
            
In this book, I've made an effort to cover a wide range of approaches to data wrangling
               in order to give you the flexibility to tackle both standard and non-standard data
               wrangling challenges practically, efficiently, effectively, and with confidence. You
               should now have a broad and powerful set of tools that you can use to manipulate data
               and get the results that you need. 
            
Of course, not everything could fit in this book. As you approach various datasets
               in your work, you will certainly come across challenges that will go beyond the demonstrations
               used in the chapters of this book, and you will continue to learn new tools and approaches
               to meet those challenges. As you continue to learn, my hope is that this book will
               have provided you with a strong starting place, and I hope that you've come away with
               a new sense of your ability to tackle data wrangling challenges. :)
            





