














PSYCHIC EMPATH
5 BOOKS IN 1

Reiki for Beginners, Kundalini, Chakra Healing, Buddhism, Psychic
development, Third eye, Deep Sleep Techniques, Awareness
therapy, Empath, and Yoga Sutras




By
Spiritual Awakening Academy








REIKI HEALING FOR BEGINNERS

Introduction


Chapter 1: Reiki Healing


How does Reiki develop?


Chapter 2:  Reiki Healing Techniques


Karuna Reiki


Benefits of Karuna Reiki


Sekhem or Seichim Reiki


Benefits of Sekhem or Seichim Reiki


Western Reiki


Benefits of Western Reiki


Chapter 3: Benefits of Reiki


Increased Ability to Deal with Negative Energies and Stresses of the World


Ability to Heal Others


Physical Healing


Mental and Emotional Healing


Increased Spirituality


Greater Compassion


Stress Relief


Detoxifies the Body and Mind


Energizing and Rejuvenating


Balance and Harmony


Energy and Balance


Relaxation and Stress Relief


Pain Relief


Better Focus


Natural Detoxification


Improved Sleep


Self-Healing


Emotional Cleansing


Alternate Treatments


Chapter 4: Symbols of Reiki


5 Traditional Reiki Symbols


Power


Harmony


Distance


Master


Completion


How Symbols Are Used


Chapter 5:  Reiki And The Chakras


The Benefits of a Balanced Chakra System


Amazing Benefits of Balanced Chakras:


Negative Energy versus Positive Energy


With Balanced Chakras Comes a Balanced Life


Chapter 6:  Levels of Reiki


3 Levels or Degrees of Reiki


First Degree


Second Degree


Third Degree (Inner Master)


How to Ascend Through Reiki Levels


Chapter 7: Reiki Healing Hand Positions for a Healthier and Better Life


How Reiki Healing Works: The Theory


What Exactly Is Reiki Doing?


What Is the Biofield?


Reiki Compared to Other Treatments


How Reiki Healing Is Done: The Healing Session


Who Should I See?


What Is the Setting?


How Do I Sign Up?


What Is Involved in a Session?


What Is the Experience Like?


What Should I Do During the Session?


How Does the Session End?


How Does Reiki Change You: The Effect


Chapter 8: Power of Positive Thoughts


Chapter 9: Reiki and Meditation


Chapter 10: Reiki and Body Energy


The Energetic Bodies


The 5 Layers of the Human Energy Field


Physical Energy


Etheric


Emotional Energy


Mental Energy


Spiritual Energy


Why Should You Be Concerned About Energy Field?


Chapter 11: Reiki for Yourself and Others


Hand Positions in Reiki


Hand Positions for Each Region in the Body


The Head


Front of the Body


Back of the Body


Legs and Feet


Using Hand Positions for Physical Healing


Teeth and Gums


Warts and Polyps


Balding and Hair Loss


Chapter 12: Affirmations


Healing with Affirmations


Chapter 13: Meditations to Help You Align with Reiki


Meditation to Heal the Auric Field


Meditation to Heal the Karmic Past


Meditation to Awaken the Channels of Light


Chapter 14: Frequently Asked Questions About Reiki


Conclusion









KUNDALINI AWAKENING


Introduction


Chapter 1: Kundalini Basics


Why is it important to learn/practice Kundalini?


The differences between Kundalini and Prana


The relationship between Kundalini and Chi


The health benefits of Kundalini


Different Kundalini exercises and meditations


The effects of Kundalini activation on the body, emotions, and the mind


Chapter 2: The Basics of Meditation


Meditation and Multiple Practices


Prayer


Yoga


Everything Seems to Fall Apart


Physical Symptoms


Emotional Symptoms


Energetic Symptoms


Importance of breathing in meditation and yoga


Chapter 3: The Energy of Prana


The Koshas


The Five Pranas in Yoga


Chapter 4: Psychic Abilities


The different psychic abilities


Telekinesis


Pyrokinesis


Psychic awareness


How to Develop Your Psychic Abilities


Chapter 5: Psychic Skills


Psi Healing


Chapter 6: Clairvoyance & Other Psychic Gifts


Chapter 7: Astral Travel


Travel Methods


Helpful Hints


Chapter 8: How to awaken kundalini


Chapter 9: Terminologies


Conclusion









PSYCHIC EMPATH


Introduction


Chapter 1: Understanding Psychic Empaths


What is an Empath?


History of Psychic Empaths


How Empaths Feel


Common Traits of an Empath


Highly sensitive


They have good luck


They hate conflict


High sensory stimulation


Their instincts about people are on the money


They have imaginary friends


They appear lonely


They have a past life


Communicate with animals


Loving and compassionate


Sleep issues


Good at connecting dots


They have trouble letting go


Soak up other peoples' energies


Highly intuitive


Overwhelmed by relationships


Take long to process emotions


Love nature


Strong senses


Components of Empathy


Getting Others


Creating Others


Utilizing Diversity


Political Awareness


Chapter 2: Understanding Psychic Empaths


History of Psychic Empaths


How Empaths Feel


How Empaths Obtain Information


Chapter 3: Empaths and Spiritual Hypersensitivity


How to Cope With Spiritual Hypersensitivity


There are also several spiritual healing tools that you can use:


Prayer


Water


Mindfulness


Essential Oils


Lavender


Rose


Chamomile


Frankincense


How to Use Essential Oils for Hypersensitivity


Aromatherapy


Oral Application


Topical Application


Chapter 4: The Benefits of Developing Your Intuition and Psychic Abilities


The sensation of pressure disappears


The connection with the spirits


Learning and spirituality


Heightened sensitivity of your physical senses


Intuition


Miles away from negativity


The desire to eat healthier food


Making new friends


Chapter 5: The Psychology behind Empaths


The Shamanic and Mystical Understanding of Being an Empath


How to Find Peace Living as an Empath


Essential Oil Recipes for Anxiety


Lavender Neck Rub


Calming Essential Oil


Anxiety Blend #1


Anxiety Blend #2


Anxiety Blend #3


Chapter 6: The Difference Between Empaths and Highly Sensitive People


Chapter 7: Signs You May Already Have Psychic Abilities


Why do People Ignore their Psychic Abilities?


Signs that you have Psychic Skills:


Chapter 8: How to Develop Your Psychic Abilities for a Better Life


Chapter 9: Exercises to Boost Your Psychic Abilities


Chapter 10: Parenting Empath Children — Tips for Raising an Empath Child


How to support sensitive children


The future of enlightened parenting


Chapter 11: Clairvoyant Healing


Chapter 12: Telepathy


Chapter 13: Aura and Aura reading


What are Auras


Chapter 14: Mediumship


Chapter 15: How to Boost Your Psychic Abilities


Chapter 16: How to Embrace Being an Empath


How to Become an Assertive Empath


Learning How to Set Boundaries


How to Become an Extroverted Empath


Chapter 17: Common Myths That Psychic Empaths Should Never Believe


Conclusion








GUIDED SELF-HEALING MEDITATIONS

Introduction


Chapter One: History Of Meditation


The Basics of Meditation


Benefits of meditation


Meditation Helps to Reduce Stress


Meditation Helps Keep Emotions under Control


Meditation Increases Serotonin Secretion


Meditation Improves the Ability to Focus


Meditation Increases Creativity


Meditation Increases Empathy and the Ability to Connect


Meditation Helps Improve Relationships


Meditation Enhances Memory


Meditation Improves Immunity


Meditation Helps You Overcome Addictions


Meditation Benefits Cardiovascular Health


Meditation Aids Weight Loss


Meditation Helps Manage Headaches


How to establish a Good Meditation Practice?


Benefits of Establishing A Meditation Practice


Without a firm foundation, you will not be consistent


It helps you create a habit


It makes your practice ingrained, almost second-nature activity in your life


Chakra Healing Meditation


Chapter Two: Anxiety


Ways meditation can prevent anxiety in your relationship.


Strained Communication


Toxic Personality


Former Relationship


Gratefulness


Work-Related Stress


It Keeps You Positive


Your Connection


The Five Types of Anxiety Disorders


Social Phobias (Social Anxiety Disorder)


Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD)


Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD)


Panic Disorder


Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder (OCD)


Easy Steps to Help You Overcome Anxiety in your Relationship


Steps for Mindfulness Meditation to Distill Relationship Anxiety


Difficulties in This Meditation


How to Practice Meditation for GAD


Chapter Three: How To Calm The Body


Mindfulness Body Scan Meditation


Breathing Exercises throughout the Day


Chapter Four: How To Calm The Mind


Why You Should Calm Your Mind


How to Calm Your Mind through Meditation


Through Mindfulness


Chapter Five:  Guided Meditation to Manage Panic Attack


Symptoms of panic attacks:


Thunderous heartbeat


Feeling of weakness


Numbness in the fingers and toes


An impending sense of doom


Sweating


Chest pains


Difficulty in breathing


No control


Derealization


Tips for dealing with panic attacks


Knowledge


Be calm


Know what triggers your panic attacks


Mindful breathing


Visualization


Be courageous


Surround yourself with friends


Chapter six: Deep Sleep techniques


Meditation to Overcome Insomnia


Meditation Techniques for Insomnia


Guided Meditation Tips for insomnia


Guided Meditation for Insomnia in Pregnant Women


Guided meditation for Insomnia in children


Conclusion








THIRD EYE AWAKENING

Introduction


Chapter 1: What Is the Third Eye?


Chapter 2: How To Open Your Third Eye


Chapter 3:  Techniques to Awaken the Third Eye Chakra


Activating and Maintaining the Third Eye Function


The First Opening


Learning How To Meditate


Experiences After The Opening Of The Third Eye


Chapter 4: Guided Day Meditations to Awaken the Third Eye


Chapter 5: The Powers of an Open Third Eye


Eight Tips for Effective Energy Meditation


Benefits of Opening Your Third Eye


Chapter 6:  Psychic Abilities


Chapter 7:  Psychic Awareness


Tips to Develop and Strengthen Your Psychic Awareness


Chapter 8: Exercises for Awakening Your Inner Spirit


Chapter 9: Pineal Gland Activation and Chakras


Activation of the Pineal Gland Through Guided Meditation (10-15 Minutes)


Chakras Meaning


Types of Chakras


Sixth Sense - Developing Psychic Awareness


Chapter 10: How to Maintain the Health of Your Third Eye Over Time?


Chapter 11: Common Mistakes People Make Trying to Activate the Third Eye


Conclusion









Text Copyright ©

Spiritual Awakening Academy

All rights reserved. No part of this guide may be reproduced in any form without permission in writing from the publisher except in the case of brief quotations embodied in critical articles or reviews.
Legal & Disclaimer
The information contained in this book and its contents is not designed to replace or take the place of any form of medical or professional advice; and is not meant to replace the need for independent medical, financial, legal or other professional advice or services, as may be required. The content and information in this book has been provided for educational and entertainment purposes only.
The content and information contained in this book has been compiled from sources deemed reliable, and it is accurate to the best of the Author's knowledge, information and belief. However, the Author cannot guarantee its accuracy and validity and cannot be held liable for any errors and/or omissions. Further, changes are periodically made to this book as and when needed. Where appropriate and/or necessary, you must consult a professional (including but not limited to your doctor, attorney, financial advisor or such other professional advisor) before using any of the suggested remedies, techniques, or information in this book.
Upon using the contents and information contained in this book, you agree to hold harmless the Author from and against any damages, costs, and expenses, including any legal fees potentially resulting from the application of any of the information provided by this book. This disclaimer applies to any loss, damages or injury caused by the use and application, whether directly or indirectly, of any 
 advice or information presented, whether for breach of contract, tort, negligence, personal injury, criminal intent, or under any other cause of action.
You agree to accept all risks of using the information presented inside this book.
You agree that by continuing to read this book, where appropriate and/or necessary, you shall consult a professional (including but not limited to your doctor, attorney, or financial advisor or such other advisor as needed) before using any of the suggested remedies, techniques, or information in this book.









REIKI HEALING FOR BEGINNERS


The Ultimate Guide to Learn Mindfulness and Self-Healing Techniques.
Expand Mind Power Through Chakra Meditation, and Overcoming the Daily Stress and Anxiety

By
Spiritual Awakening Academy









Introductio
 n

ion
Reiki healing allows you to connect with the energies of the Universe and use it in a way that encourages the body to heal itself. It can be used to treat aches and pains, overcome allergies and headaches, and even heal chronic or painful diseases. The results depend heavily on your abilities and your mindset, as it is important to be receptive to the Reiki energies for them to result.
Often, the emotional and physical health problems that we struggle with stem from blocked energy channels in the body. Energy channels can be blocked after certain life circumstances or from being neglected. As you learn to encourage the flow of Universal energy through your body, you can promote overall health and wellness. You can stop at learning to heal yourself or you can continue our practice to strengthen your abilities and possibly heal others.
Hopefully, this book has been able to help provide the foundation for Reiki knowledge that you can build upon later. For the time being, however, you should know what you need to put your Reiki skills to work. The only thing left to do is practice! Your abilities will strengthen with time and as you become more aware of the way that the energies of the universe and your body affect you.
The following chapters will discuss the process of Reiki and how you can get started with the great healing powers that come from it. Many people have never heard about Reiki before, but it is actually a powerful energy that is inside all of us. If you are dealing with chakras that are blocked up or energy that is not able to go freely through your body, using Reiki, either in person or over distance, can make all the difference. 
This guidebook is going to spend some time talking about Reiki and the different parts that come with it. We will explore the fundamentals of what Reiki is all about and even how it relates to the chakras. We will also spend some time talking about how to perform Reiki on yourself, the training that a Reiki master has to go through, the benefits of using Reiki, and even some of the most common symbols for this practice. Once you give it a try using the 
 information that is in this guidebook, you will be amazed at how much better you feel, emotionally, physically, and mentally. 
When you are tired of dealing with emotional, mental or physical ailments and you have tried other methods that seem to have bad side effects or will make things worse, it may be time to give Reiki a try. Take some time to read through this guidebook and learn some of the basics of Reiki and how it can help you. 








Chapter 1: Reiki Healin
 g

Reiki is a form of therapy that promotes healing and balance in life.  
The practice of Reiki improves relaxation and reduces stress, both of which are prevalent in society. 
The focus of Reiki is to improve or increase the flow of positive energy through the use of energy that flows from the hands of the practitioner.  
The idea is to improve areas of low or weak energy, which are considered areas of illness, to improve well being.  
The word Reiki originates from the Japanese words for Rei
 , which refers to a "higher power" or "power of the universe", spirituality, or universal power, and Ki
 , which refers to energy or life force.  
These two words combined are defined as a spiritually guided energy, which is the definition of Reiki.
The Origin of Reiki and How the Practice has Developed
The history of Reiki dates to ancient times, though the exact era or time period is unknown.  
In more recent history, between the mid-1800s and early 20th
 century, the practice of Reiki was rediscovered and developed for modern use, as it is applied today.  
Dr. Usai, a Buddhist monk from Japan, studied the ancient practice, discovering its benefits and developing Reiki further to enhance the benefits on a spiritual, mental and physical level.  
In just over a century, Reiki is performed all over the world, from its roots in Japan to many countries across the globe, including western countries.  
While many people may use Western-based medicine and treatments for a variety of illnesses and chronic conditions, many people also look towards Reiki and other forms of healing to strengthen their mind, body, and spirituality through this practice.








How does Reiki develop?


Reiki is developed through training sessions or classes, and a series of attunements.  

There is a total of three levels of study in Reiki, which provides the foundation for understanding its healing energy and how it is applied as a therapy for yourself and others.  
The power of Reiki develops over time, as it helps to clear and heal the mind, allowing a stronger flow of positive energy to transfer from one place or person to another.  
For each level of Reiki, the student develops a deeper understanding and connection with universal energy.  
With each attunement, there is a stronger enhancement of that connection, and while just one attunement can last for an indefinite length of time, some students choose to remain longer for each level, to deepen their experience and energy, either through more practice, additional attunements, or both.  
Some people new to the practice, with little or no Reiki knowledge, may choose to take the first level only, for their own benefit or self-practice.   
For others, the practice of Reiki is much more, and progressing to the third or master level is done with a great deal of passion and commitment.
Different Forms of Reiki
As Reiki developed over centuries, and within recent times, several forms of the practice became popular, and are known by their specific style or name.  
While all forms of Reiki are essentially the same in principle, the 
 style and methods in which it is practiced and treatment options used vary depending on the specific type.  The following types are most commonly known as the following:
Jikiden Reiki
This is the most traditional and original form of Reiki practiced today.  
It's also known as Eastern Reiki, as it is closely related to the way it was initially used when first developed.  
This form has changed has not changed from its initial form and aims to closely follow the original model or techniques used in ancient times.  
People who practice Jikiden Reiki are most interested in remaining with the traditional methods.  
Jikiden is known as the purest form of Reiki, as it has changed the least in comparison to other forms.
There are some distinct principles related to the traditional form of Reiki, known as Jikiden, including the following:
●    
 It promotes the quick or accelerated healing process of surgical procedures and related medical techniques
●    
 The healing process is spiritual, though it does not aim to change nor conflict with the different beliefs of other people.  
In other words, it works regardless of your religion or faith.  The focus is primarily on the level of energy that is channeled, which is universal and available to everyone.
●    
 It aims to promote and heal the psychological side of addiction and related issues that stem from both psychological and physical foundations.  
This may include the alleviation of depression, anxiety, and forms of stress, which can be a recurring condition on their own or related to 
 other conditions, which can also be treated in the same way.
●    
 Another attribute of the goal of Jikiden Reiki is the ability to soothe and comfort without feeling invasive or uncomfortable, and this is also common in all forms of Reiki.  
Hands are often placed over each area to be treated, or lightly touching the area for the same effect.
●    
 This form of Reiki also aims to correct negative habits that are self-destructive, including compulsivity and addiction or repetitive behaviors that cause grief in our lives.  
For example, people prone to substance abuse and gambling would benefit from this form of Reiki
Usui Reiki
Also known as the Western method, this style of Reiki remains close to Master Miao Usui's developments, though it has been revised and changed for common versions of the practice in Western countries.  
Usui worked with the original form of Reiki, making some changes to enhance its ability, which has gone through further changes since. 
Both forms (Jikiden and Usui), as with all Reiki styles, are referred to as a form of spiritual healing through physical means, where the light or energy is transferred or channeled through the hands from one person to the other, for the benefit of healing and other positive effects.  
The Usui form of Reiki focuses on a specific set of principles and benefits as follows:
●    
 There is a great deal of focus on accepting yourself as is and being able to practice and enjoy the benefits of Reiki anywhere at any time.  
While the practice itself involves the transference of universal energy, there is a great deal of importance placed on the individual 
 and their ability to benefit from this process.
●    
 Like Jikiden Reiki, there is a focus on practicing in such a way that the experience is comfortable and brings a soothing sense to your mind and body.
●    
 Usui is used as a way to help those who have passed away to transition or move from the current (or previous) physical existence to an afterlife or spiritual existence.  
●    
 There is a goal to reduce stress, including the tension and pressure that we accumulate daily, often without noticing.  
Once this stress is lifted or calmed, the results are significant, and we feel lighter, and life becomes manageable and easier to face.  Other benefits with the reduction of stress include less anxiety and a sense of fear.
●    
 Also, like the Jikiden method, there is no conflict with other people's faiths or beliefs.  The idea is to heal and comfort everyone, and this is a goal for all forms of Reiki.
●    
 We all hide how we feel at some point, and some of us habitually hide our feelings and emotions like a regular way of dealing with them.  
In Reiki, some of these emotions may rise to the surface, creating an experience that is liberating, though may cause some people to feel vulnerable.  It's important to note that this is a natural effect of Reiki's strength in healing not only the physical but the emotional side as well.
●    
 Usui Reiki aims to help people who have sustained injury and/or surgical procedures to heal quickly and effectively.  
It also gives them the strength to endure the healing process and coping with life following the event. 
●     
 Sleep becomes easier and more qualitative after Reiki 
 treatment.  
Some people report the ability to fall asleep quicker than previously and experience a deeper, more satisfying rest than before.
●    
 This form of Reiki is suitable for all ages and people, which is also the case with other forms of this practice.
Karuna Reiki
This is a form of Reiki that focuses on developing a deep sense of love and spreading it to others through the practice.  
While the first two forms of Reiki focus on the physical healing process, along with the spiritual, Karuna Reiki aims to use more spiritual healing as a way to treat or improve others mentally and psychologically.  
Some people who practice both Usui or Jikiden Reiki and Karuna, find that Karuna is overall stronger and has the potential for healing on a deeper level.  
It builds upon the knowledge and sense of wisdom we already have, which helps us heal and improve faster on all levels (mentally, psychologically, physically, and spiritually).
The main idea is the extension of love and care to yourself and the people around you.  
In doing this, the energy transfer is of a higher level and can promote healing more effectively as a result.  
Many of the goals associated with this form of Reiki focus on emotional healing, and other conditions or issues associated with it:
●    
 Karuna Reiki works to clear the mind of mental clutter and allow for better learning and a stronger understanding of knowledge.  
This can help develop wisdom and promote a clearer understanding 
 of our own thoughts and emotions.
●    
 It provides a sense of relief and comfort for people suffering from loss or grief.  
It allows them to cope while navigating through the stages of grief and processing the various emotions they will experience along this journey.  
There is also some relief from the emotional pain that is experienced from a loss, and through other challenges in life as well.
●    
 There is a focus on fostering a sense of self-acceptance and love and learning to accept the characteristics of ourselves that we find less appealing and ideal. 
Some people are caught up in the negative aspects of what we don't like about our bodies and personalities, that we forget or lose sight of the positive.  Karuna aims to help us accept that we are valuable despite our imperfections (or perceived imperfections), which helps boost self-esteem and a sense of worth.
●    
 Personal goals are a focus of Karuna Reiki, and this works well with the sense of deep healing and emotional strength that is fostered through this practice.  
In accepting who we are and improving our own self-love, we become more capable of achieving our own personal goals, as well as work and professional milestones.
Other benefits of Karuna Reiki include further development of self-reliance and less codependency.  
The overall focus on this form of Reiki is to alleviate and treat a lot of emotional disorders and inconsistencies that we all face from time to time.  
For some people, this can be more challenging to treat than others, though over time, there is a great deal of improvement and 
 confidence as a result.  
Couples looking to improve their relationship and communication skills with one another, as well as with others in their lives, can benefit significantly from Karuna Reiki.  
This practice works well with both Western forms of therapy (therapy and Western medicine) as well as other alternative forms for medicine or wellness.
Sekehem Reiki (also known as Sichim Reiki)
This form of Reiki is based in Egypt and is considered the extension of healing and well being from the Egyptian Goddess Sekhmet. 
The form of energy used or channeled is considered vibrational and full of light, which rejects all forms of negativity and pain that are associated with it.  
The main principle of this form of Reiki is to promote positivity and build a stronger sense of spirituality through the opening of chakras and delivering a strong light or healing power.  
There is a renewed sense of balance and contentment with this treatment, which begins gradually, and increases to an intense level.  
The effects are powerful, and many people report the effects of just one session lasting for more than several days.  
Sekehem or Sichim Reiki is often used with essential oils. 
The treatment focuses on healing, emotionally and mentally, from situations that cause grieving or other stressful scenarios, including marital breakdown, loss of employment and other difficult experiences in life.  
One of the main effects noticed by people who receive this form of Reiki as a treatment is the draining of energy from the negative, and 
 a sense of relief or peace that follows.  
The feelings can be intense, though favorable, and soothing at once.  
The main benefits of this Reiki are as follows:
●    
 A deeper sense of awareness and focus in life.  A sense of purpose is stronger, and this fosters a better sense of confidence as well.
●    
 Promoting connections between other people in our lives and our relationships with them.  Treatment can provide an opportunity to deepen these ties and help us appreciate the positive connections we have with the closest people to us.
●    
 The deep sense of enlightenment and spirituality, including a stronger sense of inner peace and acceptance.
●    
 Stronger and faster healing of the emotional, spiritual, and physical within ourselves.
Karuna Reiki is a powerful way to connect with nature and the universe on a spiritual level while improving our own state of well being in the process.  
The growing intensity and long-lasting effects of this practice create a long-lasting effect that can be transferred to others as it benefits us, either as a practitioner, a client, or a student.
Lightarian Reiki
This form of Reiki both combines and expands the purpose of Usui and Karuna forms, focusing on a deep sense of loving energy with strong self-building goals and healing properties.  
Reiki Masters practice Lightarian Reiki to improve their spiritual level and increase their level beyond, to promote stronger healing abilities by channeling more vibrational forms of energy.  
There are different bands or levels of energy in Reiki, eight in total, which create a path to higher awareness and spirituality.  
The Usui and Karuna forms of Reiki are concentrated with the first two bands, while the remaining six are reached through Lightarian Reiki, to connect with Ascended Masters or a higher sense of being.  
During this process of moving through the different bands of energy, there is a growing sense of empowerment within, which helps create stronger sources of energy during practice on others as well as for yourself personally.
What are the main properties and benefits of Lightarian Reiki? 
The following advantages can be gained through the process of Reiki meditation and self-practice, which is detailed further in this book:
●    
 As you progress through the higher forms of energy, this will benefit clients in your practice.  You'll be giving or channeling a higher form of energy for faster and stronger healing ability.
●    
 Along with helping others, you'll notice a higher sense of personal peace and healing within.  
●     
 Growing sensitivity and awareness for further spiritual development.
All forms of Reiki are powerful and create strong channels of energy for healing and self-betterment in many ways.  
The most popular form of Reiki practiced today is Usui, as his methods are easy to follow and readily practiced throughout North America. 
This form of practice remains mostly traditional, with aspects of Master Usui's enhancements, which were implemented around one hundred years ago.  
If you are interested in exploring other forms of Reiki in practice, a Master or instructor may be able to refer additional resources or materials to study different forms, or depending on their own experience and training; they may be able to offer helpful advice as 
 well.
Chapter 2: 
 Reiki Healing Techniques
Karuna Reiki
Karuna is a word that means any action that helps to diminish other people's suffering. In Sanskrit, Karuna means "compassionate action." The Karuna system of Reiki is a technique developed by William L. Rand when he used the symbols channeled by other Reiki Masters like Kellie-Ray Marine, Pat Courtney, Marla Abraham, and Marcy Miller. Rand found the symbols to be very valuable, but he felt that they still had a lot of potential locked deep within them. He used guided meditation to become attuned with the symbols to unlock their full potential, and he called this new Reiki technique Karuna. 
Karuna Reiki's energy is applied with more focus and also works on all energy bodies simultaneously. People who receive attunement from their Reiki teacher only when they have become qualified Reiki practitioners. They often need to report to their Spirit Guides, Angels, and their Higher Self, and then afterwards they feel their presences at times. 
Benefits of Karuna Reiki 

Non-invasive  
Helps heal unconscious patterns/habits 
Can help with sleeping problems 
Can help easy panic attacks, fatigue, and muscle pain 
Can help with the manifestation of personal goals 
Helps pull out the negative energy, or blockages in your ki flow and helps release pain 
Can also help ease emotional pain 
Does not require you to convert into another religion 
Heals the body on a cellular level 
Helps you deal with past-life issues 
Helps you fix communication problems 
Helps you deal with co-dependency 
Helps mend relationships and makes them better 
Helps you be more mindful and in the moment
Helps you shatter your denial habits 
Helps with self-image problems\ 
Improves learning and promote clarity of the mind 

Sekhem or Seichim Reiki 
Sekhem is an ancient Egyptian word that means "Universal Energy or Power", roughly translate as "Power of Powers". Sekhem in Egyptian hieroglyphs is symbolized by the scepter, and it represents the connection between Heaven and Earth. 
Sekhem healing energy can help accelerate your spiritual growth, but most importantly, it can open communication channels with your "higher self" and with the "All That Is", which can mean different things to different faiths (the Cosmic Universe, the Divine Creator, the Soul of Souls, etc.) There are no other known energy system that can compare with the high vibrational energy of Sekhem, nor does any other energy work at a deeper soul level.  
Sekhem Reiki promotes being more responsible for your life. It also allows you to heal, and it helps your personality and spirituality, so you can find your soul's purpose and unlock your full potential. 
Benefits of Sekhem or Seichim Reiki 

Fast physical, spiritual, and emotional healing 
Quickens the never ending process of spiritual development and enlightenment 
Assists in the manifestation of goals 
Improves your "inner sight" and your ability to sense the energy around you 
Increases your "feeling of being alive" by making you more aware of the present 
Increases your self-awareness and your relationships with others 

Western Reiki   
Almost all of the Reiki practiced in Japan is Westernized Reiki, which is quite ironic considering that Reiki originated from Japan. There was a time when people thought that there were no more any legitimate Reiki practitioners left in Japan. That is why when Reiki was reintroduced into the country, the Japanese people who wished to learn it had to visit North America to get tutelage. However, the successors of Usui-sensei have always been in Japan. 
There are also the surviving students of Chujiro Hayashi, which was one of the prominent students of Mikao Usui. One of his students was Hawayo Takata, who was believed to be the person who introduced Reiki to the Western hemisphere. 
Benefits of Western Reiki 

Promotes acceptance of oneself 
Can help minimize pain and discomfort; can actually be used to aid in natural childbirth 
Can assist a dying person's soul transcend peacefully to the afterlife  
Can aid in being more mindful of one's thoughts and physical feelings 
Can help uncover hidden emotions so they can be easily healed 
Can balance the chakras in the body 
Can be used to complement other medical treatments safely 
No need to convert to other religions 
Non-invasive and gentle healing 
Provides natural pain relief 
Promotes deep relaxation and helps cure sleeping disorders
Promotes wholistic health and well-being 
Is safe for use by pregnant women 
Hastens the recovery from surgery sickness, and eases labor pains 
Can help ease and eliminate stress 









Chapter 3: Benefits of Reik
 i

Increased Ability to Deal with Negative Energies and Stresses of the World
The benefit of Reiki is that it helps relieve the weight of any negative experiences you may have. As you walk through your office building or down the street, you will notice a new recognition for those things that do not serve your purpose. You will understand what things do not serve your purpose in life and which encounters leave you in an undesirable mental state. Then, you can learn to block the energies from things you do not want to experience and avoid those situations that you can, should they not promote the satisfied, energized feeling that you should feel.
Ability to Heal Others
If you decide to progress past the point of Reiki healing for yourself, it is easy to become attuned with the world and direct your energy in a way that corrects the energy flow of others. As you choose people to practice with, it is important to choose those that are opened to the idea of Reiki healing. You may find yourself put off of the practice altogether if you try it on a relative with health problems who does not have an open mind to new age topics like Reiki. Keep in mind that it is not always your failure. Reiki will not work on someone who cannot open their mind and body to the flow of energy.
Physical Healing
Physical healing is one of the benefits of Reiki that people seem to be most skeptical about. They do not understand how something that restores energy can help relieve the symptoms of their physical condition, whether it is a simple headache or a chronic illness. Those who doubt this method have often been healed using a Western form of medicine, which commonly focuses on treating the ailment directly instead of using a full-body approach. 
This is one of the reasons that people turn to alternative or holistic medicine when a more scientific approach has healed them. In many cases, the results have been a complete turnaround. There are even anecdotes of people who have turned to Reiki healing and other 
 alternative medicines and had success in healing cancer, relieving chronic pain, and fighting off severe illness.
Mental and Emotional Healing
People's pain and sickness are not always visible. Many people struggle with anxiety, depression, repressed emotions, and other mental and emotional states. They may not even be aware of their emotional state or what is causing it. Reiki does not always help you heal emotions unless you deal with them; however, it can make you more aware of your emotional state.
This awareness can help you understand your problems. It can also help you tap into the divine nature and understand your purpose in life. As you continue to connect to the energy that exists within everything and all around you, it can help cultivate more positive emotions in your life, including connectedness, love, intimacy, kindness, compassion, and sharing.
Increased Spirituality
The flow of energy that you experience with Reiki can help you notice the interconnectedness between all the life forms of earth. As you connect to all that is living around you, you will feel a greater connection to the divine. You will also feel as if you are part of something greater than what exists in your immediate world. For many people, this creates the feeling of being connected to something great and powerful. It offers reassurance that you are present in the universe and you know that you are loved by and connected to the spiritual beings, both living and non-living that you may encounter through your day.
Greater Compassion
The connectedness that you feel when regularly cleansing and connecting to your internal source of energy can help you find greater compassion for all that exists in the world. You will be more compassionate and empathetic when you encounter others who are in pain, whether emotional or physical. You will also be more tolerant and understanding of others, aware that you cannot possibly understand their specific situation. As you learn this deep compassion for others, you will also learn to be kinder to and have greater compassion for yourself. This can help heal people who 
 struggle with emotional trauma or low self-esteem, as they often struggle with treating themselves as well as they would treat others.
Stress Relief
Stress relief is a major benefit of Reiki, as it is responsible for many of its effects. When you regularly relax and provide yourself with stress relief, it gives your body and mind a much-needed break from the fast-paced world around you. This stress relief can help you sleep better at night and promotes a stronger immune system since your body is getting the support that it needs to be healthy. This can also reduce blood pressure.
Detoxifies the Body and Mind
A major part of the Reiki process is the removal of negative energies and toxins from your body. It cleanses the body and helps you naturally eliminate toxins that may have built up in your organs, digestive system, and bloodstream. You naturally encounter these toxins through your day—they are in some of the foods that you eat and the air that you breathe. Reiki also detoxifies the mind, clearing it of blockages that are stopping you from dealing with emotional trauma. This clearer state of mind and deeper understanding help you on the path to healing.
Energizing and Rejuvenating
Reiki is a very energizing practice. As you tap into your spiritual energy and the connectedness between you and all that is in the universe, you will feel your energy grow. You will feel reinvigorated as the life force flows through your body. Some Reiki experts also say that the rejuvenation from Reiki can postpone that aging process and promote overall vitality.
Balance and Harmony
Reiki is a non-invasive technique of healing that promotes your overall wellbeing by working along with your body's natural ability to heal itself. Reiki does not just promote your overall wellbeing but it also helps re-energize and revitalize your body. It brings about a sense of balance, not only to your physical body but your spiritual and mental aspects of life as well. It is an energy healing system that doesn't provide superficial solutions but helps deal with the primary cause of any troubles in your life. By practicing Reiki, you can easily 
 restore your mental and emotional balance.
Energy and Balance
For your overall wellbeing, it is essential that your body, mind, and soul are in harmony. Reiki allows you to get rid of any blocks of energy within and promotes your overall balance. By using Reiki healing regularly, you can become calmer and at peace. It is a great way to deal with stress. Apart from this, it also improves your cognitive abilities. Once your mind is clear and free from stress, your ability to learn and retain information also enhances. 
Apart from this, it also helps and emotional healing. If you have frequent mood swings, then Reiki can help reverse this process. Strengthening and healing your relationships can also be possible through this. Your ability to love others and receive love from others dramatically improves when you start using Reiki. This helps strengthen your ability to form and maintain relationships. 
Relaxation and Stress Relief 
If you want to let go of unnecessary stress and tension from your body, then Reiki is the answer. While using Reiki healing, you don't consciously have to do anything; you merely need to allow the energy from this healing process to remove any tension from your body and mind. You will start to feel lighter and more relaxed from within. Apart from this, it also increases your awareness of the state of your mind and body. 
Once you are aware of what you feel and how you feel or why you feel the way you feel, it becomes easier to manage your emotions. You get an opportunity to learn to be more attuned to your body's needs and your emotional wellbeing. It helps you assess the inner wisdom and knowledge that exists within you.
Pain Relief
Reiki helps alleviate pain while improving your physical health. By correcting any imbalances of energy in your body, it improves your physical health and enables your body to function optimally. It is a non-invasive healing process and can provide relief from arthritis, migraines, or any other physical ailments. Apart from this, it is also used to alleviate symptoms of asthma, menopause, and insomnia.
Better Focus
Reiki can make you feel centered and grounded. This helps improve your focus and provides mental clarity. Most of us often focus on our past or worrying about the future. Dwelling in thoughts associated with either of these is not going to do you much good in your present. Reiki helps you live in the present moment. It improves your ability to accept things that come your way and work your way through challenging circumstances. Instead of reacting, you can learn to respond.
Natural Detoxification
Reiki enables the natural detoxification of your body and improves the functioning of your immune system. The modern lifestyle is full of stress, which triggers your body's fight or flight response. Reiki shifts your body from the fight or flight mode towards the rest, and it starts to behave and act like it is supposed to. This state doesn't symbolize non-productivity or inactivity. It merely improves your sleep cycle based on the circadian rhythm. It essentially improves your sleep cycle along with the functioning of your digestive system. These two things are essential for your optimal health and vitality. If your body starts functioning healthy, and you get the rest you deserve, your productivity will improve.
Improved Sleep
Perhaps the most obvious outcome of a Reiki session is relaxation. Once your body and mind are both relaxed, your ability to sleep peacefully through the night will improve. Once you get good quality, undisturbed sleep, you will feel more energized in the morning.
Self-Healing
Reiki works along with your body's metabolism and accelerates its ability to heal itself. It helps restore the natural state of your body and encourages it to perform the way supposed to. From your blood pressure to your heart rate, you will notice an improvement in all aspects of your health. Once you start practicing Reiki on yourself, the way you breathe also improves. Most of us are not conscious of the way we breathe. Usually, taking slow and deep breaths is recommended because it helps with better absorption and 
 transportation of oxygen in the body. By becoming conscious of your breathing, you can improve your mental clarity. This is essential because of all the oxygen that boosts your brain and improves your cognitive functions.
Emotional Cleansing
Reiki not only helps improve your physical health but it also helps your spiritual and emotional wellbeing. You needn't necessarily be spiritual to enjoy the benefits of Reiki. However, if you are interested in reconnecting with your spiritual side and improve your emotional health, then Reiki will come in handy. Reiki doesn't just target a specific symptom but it addresses all the aspects related to your overall health. Perhaps this is one of the reasons why it can bring about certain shifts to the flow of energy in your body. Once any energy imbalances removed from your body, your body performs the way it was intended to. This gives you better clarity and increases your ability to stay in the moment. These factors help process your emotions and handle them in a better way. All in all, it helps emotional cleansing.
Alternate Treatments
Reiki is often used as a complementary therapy along with conventional medicines because it promotes relaxation of your body and mind. When you are relaxed, your body's ability to heal itself improves. It also accelerates the healing benefits of any conventional therapy. Reiki helps you sleep better and attain mental peace. Since it is non-invasive and can be administered gently, it works amazingly well with other therapies and medical treatments. Reiki can be provided without physically touching the recipient's body; this works especially well if the recipient is suffering from any severe injuries like burns. 
Another benefit of Reiki is that you can practice Reiki on yourself. You don't have to go to a Reiki practitioner to get Reiki. Once you learn this healing technique, you can start practicing yourself or even provide Reiki for others.







Chapter 4: Symbols of Reiki
As you learn more and more about Reiki, you will come across different symbols. You have likely seen similar ones in other methods, considering you may have seen Kanji in Japanese language. In Reiki healing, there are five traditional symbols. 
Introduced as part of the Reiki system back in 1922, Dr. Mikao Usui envisioned the symbols at the end of his 21-day fast. It has also been said that their origins are much older since they have already been a part of the world while Dr. Usui was still studying what Reiki would become. Since then, the symbols have become essential tools in the world of Reiki healing. 
5 Traditional Reiki Symbols
When you aim to master Reiki, it is important to remember the five symbols that have been deemed traditional. These symbols represent the different aspects of Reiki, as well as how they can help you in your journey. They are seen as the keys that will open the doors to higher levels of awareness. As such, they are considered sacred and holy. In the olden times, they were not shared with the public. Nowadays, the symbols can be seen by everyone. 
As you learn more about these symbols, take note that they do not hold any special powers. They function more as guiding tools for students and masters so that they can focus on the energy that they hold within. They are also part of the Reiki's energy presence. 
Power
The "power" symbol, also known as cho ku rei, represents the increase and decrease of one's power. It is displayed as a coil and believed to be the regulator of the energy when it expands and contracts. Its intention is the light switch. Depending on where it is drawn, the power symbol can show the users its ability to enlighten or illuminate them on a spiritual level. 
Harmony
The "harmony" symbol's intention is purification. Also known as the sei hi ki, it is used as a way towards mental and emotional healing. The harmony symbol is represented as a bird's wing dashing or the wave flowing across the ocean. 
Distance
The "distance" symbol, which is known as hon sha ze sha, represents the intention for timelessness. It is displayed as a tower called a pagoda. Used as a way to send energy across distances, it symbolizes someone's ability to share their qi even when the ones they are sharing it with are not in the same physical plane. 
Master
The "master" symbol, also known as dai ko myo, represents everything about Reiki.  The symbol is displayed as a combination of multiple symbols and shows the users who have ascended their levels to finally become the masters. They share not only what they have learned but also heal when they are initiating attunements. 
Completion
The "completion" symbol, also known as raku, represents the intention for closure. The symbol is displayed as a lightning bolt. As soon as the attunement is done, the users can now reach the completion of their ascending journey when they finally see this symbol. 
How Symbols Are Used
Now that you have learned what the symbols are and what they mean, you have to know how they are used in Reiki.
Power Symbol
For the power symbol, it can serve as a catalyst for various purposes, such as purification and physical cleansing. It is also a useful tool for someone to increase their attention and focus. But most of all, it is commonly used when beginning a Reiki healing session to boost the practitioner's power. A good way to see how the power symbol works is when you are healing injuries. When you manage to cultivate the power symbol, it will be able to alleviate someone's pain and treat all light and major injuries. 
The power symbol can also be used when one has the intention to get rid of negative energy. After all, it symbolizes purification, so you can expect to feel more positive energy when you make good use of the power symbol. This means that relationships, fortunes, and karma can all be purified with the help of the power you will get from 
 the latter.
Harmony Symbol
For the harmony symbol, it can be used as a way for people to recover from traumas and past events that affect them. Practitioners use it when treating addictions and depression and unblocking creative energies.
The harmony symbol can also help you achieve focus and retain information that you are trying to learn from various resources. For instance, if you want to remember all the things that you have read in a book or the Reiki moves without having to refer to too many resources, the harmony symbol is there to help you out. 
As stated earlier, the harmony symbol works when you treat addictions. So, you can kick the old habits and cultivate better ones as this symbol helps you see yourself in a much better light. 
Distance Symbol
Practitioners use the distance symbol to help people go through their personal issues. For example, when a person has an identity issue, it can guide them to be more comfortable with others even when they are not in the same room. It can also be used to bring energy from great distances. Though the receiver and the sender are not in the same physical plane, they can still feel each other through the spiritual plane. 
Nevertheless, take note that the distance symbol must be used correctly in order for it to work. You won't get much out of it if you do not use it properly. 
Master Symbol
For the master symbol, it is used to gain enlightenment. This comes in handy especially when Reiki masters are administering attunement to people who wish to become practitioners and ascend through its levels. Self-healers can also use the symbol to know how they can combine the powers of the other symbols.
The master symbol is considered as an important one among the five traditional Reiki symbols because aside from the benefits described above, it is helpful when you are doing Reiki meditation, strengthening your intrapersonal relationship, improving your 
 immune system, and healing your physical body
Completion Symbol  
Finally, the completion symbol is used to bring closure and rise with the awakened energy. It represents the ascension of a person from being a mere student to becoming a master. They feel a new kind of energy flow within themselves, which is something that they have never experienced in the previous levels. 
You can utilize this symbol when you are about to end your Reiki session. You can draw or visualize the completion symbol and know that you have finally completed what needed to be done throughout the session. 
The symbols are used by putting them on materials that can help the Reiki practitioners remember them while performing healing sessions. For example, someone can print them on posters while others can hang small tags as decorations. This is a way to let everyone know that the symbols are all around them so that they can achieve their goals and purpose with each session. 
Still, do not think the Reiki symbols are used one at a time. You can actually use two or more at a time or even combine the symbols' powers to perform a variety of healing methods that others do not offer. An example of this is when you are sending Reiki for an upcoming event that's important in your life. By mixing up the beneficial symbols, you will be able to feel more focused and enlightened when the time is about to come.
Another example is when you try to heal someone from a distance. They might feel some kind of emotional turmoil or grief, to be specific. You can then combine the symbols' powers by holding an item that gives you a strong connection to the person. You will draw or visualize the symbols so that when you perform the healing process, you can send the Reiki energy and let the person know that you are doing it all with a strong and good intention. 
In this day and age, you can also integrate the symbols in your life by putting them on your technological devices. This way, when something is amiss, you can check your gadget to see the symbols and remember that things will be alright. So, if your day is not going well or you just need a little breather, have a look at the symbols, 
 remember why you are doing what you are doing, and tread on. 
With the traditional Reiki symbols at your disposal, you can use them as you learn to master Reiki.








Chapter 5: 
 Reiki And The Chakras
 

Reiki is chakra work. That is, we work on the seven main energy centers that lie along the spine in the subtle body. Via the crown or crown chakra, we absorb light energy. This energy then flows from top to bottom through one center after another and is transformed in each chakra so that it can be used for our physical level - organs, glands. Finally, at the root center, it unites with the earth energy that we constantly absorb through the soles of our feet.
Chakras are not static points, but moving light wheels - as their name implies (the Sanskrit word chakra means "wheel"). They are dynamic or rotating centers that distribute light energy in all directions, like small suns. The movement is created by the life energy that flows into the respective chakra and brings it to life. When the life force is in flux, the chakras begin to vibrate and bloom. The more life force flows through them, the more beautiful they bloom, and this is visible in our charisma.
"Thou shalt acquire riches in the heavens, not on earth," says the Bible. We do this by working with Reiki and other types of meditation on our charisma. What we achieve in this way remains with us. If it were part of the physical body, it would be lost with death and we would have to start all over again, but this progress is not part of the physical body but is stored in the etheric body.
With the authentic Reiki, we bring about a harmonious development of our energy centers. The chakras, which are not as advanced as others, evolve over time and flourish. You can really visualize this as the blossoming of a flower bud in the sunlight: we are becoming more and more permeable to the light energy and the flow of life energy within us is getting stronger. It all happens in a gentle way. The universal energy activated in the attunements is always harmless and supportive and always depends on the real needs of the recipient. Overstraining or "too much" is thus excluded.
All degrees of authentic Reiki develop all seven chakras, but the emphasis is always on the energy center associated with the corresponding degree. In the first degree, especially the root or base center is activated. We lose our existential fears and get a positive relationship to responsibility and matter. The second degree emphasizes the sacral chakra, the seat of sensuality, sexuality, creativity, and reproduction. Little by little, we recognize our divine potential and live it. In the third degree, above all, the solar network is activated, the seat of our self-confidence and our self-esteem. The fourth degree has a special relation to the heart chakra, the chakra of love. By developing this center, we develop our humanity and can feel, love, cry, laugh, share, empathize and pray. We become love. Doubt and suspicion disappear as well as hairiness and too much disinterestedness. Instead, trust floods the heart. In deep meditation or in Reiki you are connected to the whole of creation, from heart to heart, beyond mind and language.
In the fifth degree, especially the connection between heart and neck is strengthened. Our love becomes more meditative. We feel the desire to share love with each other. With the sixth degree, which especially activates the third eye, our consciousness is increasingly developing in the direction of: "I am love." When the energy in the sixth chakra is awakened, it is experienced as a tremendous expansion, as a possibility, a glimpse to throw cosmic or infinite.
When the energy flows freely in the seventh or crown chakra, we finally arrive home. A waking crown chakra corresponds to the seventh day of creation on which the Creator rests. There is nothing left to do. Only now that we have become masters of ourselves can we really help others. It is also called "Unio Mystica," the mystical union of yin and yang. Only at this highest summit of synthesis is true, lasting fulfillment possible.
However, it's less about knowing about the chakras than about feeling them authentic. Working on the chakras - and this is Reiki - serves to dissolve energy blockages. When in the end all seven chakras have become so active that they merge into a single pillar of light, it is called enlightenment.







The Benefits of a Balanced Chakra System
Throughout our lives we are put into situations that cause us physical trauma or distress, emotional instability, and leave us mentally drained and spiritually stunted. This can put a stop to your life. Feeling this way could also make your push your friends and family away. All of this can lead to a downward spiral where you feel lost, as if you don't know who you are anymore and you don't know why this is happening to you. One of the reasons that you feel like this could be because one or more of your chakras is unbalanced.
When one or more of our chakras is blocked, then energy cannot freely flow through us. Often when a chakra within us is blocked, a part of our life is left blocked as well. This can lead to many unhealthy and bad effects to our minds, bodies, and souls. This is why it's important to unblock and balance your chakra system. Remember that your chakras are like pools of water in your body and they are all connected and flow through each other, so even if only one of your chakras is blocked it will throw all of the chakras out of balance and start affecting you.
Besides feeling happier, healthier and more in tune with yourself and the universe there are many benefits to balancing your chakra system. Each chakra is blocked by a specific thing and each chakra brings something to your life if they are balanced. Here I will describe the overall benefits you will achieve when you have all seven chakras balanced.
Amazing Benefits of Balanced Chakras:

Unblocking your chakras will also release blocked emotional and physical energy. Blocked emotional energy could lead to unresolved feelings of sadness or vulnerability. Unblocking this energy will make you feel happier, more energetic, and less vulnerable.
Blocked chakras can lead to confusion and difficulty with understanding simple tasks and solving problems. Unblocking your chakras will leave you feeling more motivated and confident. You'll be more likely to succeed in all your endeavors and reach your goals.
With unblocked chakras you will feel and look younger, and 
 you will feel healthier than ever before.
You will feel more in touch with your intuition. Blocked chakras can make you doubt yourself and feel negative about your thoughts and feelings. With balanced chakras you will trust your intuition more and no longer doubt yourself.
You will feel a stronger emotional connection in your relationships. Having balanced chakras allows you to be more in touch with your emotions which will let you feel things more deeply. Although you will be more connected with your emotions, you will be in full control so you won't be overwhelmed by them. Having a balanced chakra system is just one step towards fully controlling your emotional state and being able to connect to others' emotions in relationships.
Lying is something we all do. Whether it's to save ourselves from embarrassment or save someone else from being hurt. However, if your chakras are balanced, you will be able to understand the importance of the truth better and you will be able to express the truth easier. You will also be more understanding when hearing the truth from others, even if it is a hard, cold truth.
You will be more comfortable and self-confident. It's no secret that we all feel a little insecure in our own skin. Having a balanced chakra system can fill you with confidence and help you be more comfortable with yourself and even with your own sexuality.
Balancing your chakras can even lead you to have a better memory.
A balanced chakra system can give you more energy and motivation. This can help you with weight loss among other things.

                     
 Balancing your chakras can help you connect to your subconscious mind. This has many benefits on its own, along with feeling more aware.

                     
 Balancing your chakras can help you rid your life of many things that plague us all: stress, anxiety, insomnia, depression, addiction, and so on. Having a balanced chakra 
 system means having a balanced life.

                     
 Having a balanced chakra system will allow you to think more clearly and will even promote creativity.

                    
 You will have more mental toughness. This means that you will be able to withstand more abuse and hurt from the world. The world can be harsh and any number of things can leave us feeling hurt and broken. Having a balanced chakra system will allow you to be able to withstand the world's harsh ways and will leave you feeling more capable to fight against or ignore it.

                    
 With balanced chakras your overall health will improve and your immune system will be more capable of fighting back against illness. When your body is in harmony you are healthy and strong. When your body is disorganized and unbalanced you are left weak and open to illness. If you balance your chakras and your body then you will be healthy and stay healthy.

These are simple benefits that come from a balanced chakra system but they can lead to you feeling like a new person. You will feel like you can do and handle anything life throws at you. There are many things we do in modern times that we weren't meant to do. We weren't meant to sit in an office all day long and work. We aren't supposed to be stressing about a hundred different things all at once. We weren't meant to spend our lives working in order to survive. This is why so many people live with unbalanced chakras. This is why so many people today are sick and tired all the time.
There are so many parts of the modern world that can lead to our chakras being blocked and unbalanced. The modern world is designed to unbalance us. We can fight back by putting ourselves first and focusing on balancing our chakras. Once your chakras are balanced you will be more equipped to handle the things in life that are set to unbalance us.
Negative Energy versus Positive Energy
What exactly unbalances our chakras? The answer is simple; negative energy.
The universe is filled with energy, both negative and positive. 
 Energy from the universe flows into us. The positive energy flows through us freely but the negative energy cannot flow as easily. It is more likely to become stuck inside of us if we do not know how to release it properly. When the negative energy starts to pile up, that is when the natural flow of positive energy is stopped and our chakras are blocked.
The differences between positive energy and negative energy are many. However, the main difference between the two is how each of them enters our bodies. Once again, the universe is filled with energy but our bodies willingly let the positive energy in. We do not willingly let the negative energy into our bodies. The negative energy forces its way into our bodies through certain events.
Negative energy thrives in traumatic experiences, emotional hurt and mental challenges. Things like pain, whether it's physical or emotional, invite negative energy into our bodies. Stress, anxiety, self-doubt, hatred, anger, depression, addiction, loathing, and jealousy are all part of the flow of negative energy. These are the things that invite negative energy into our bodies and the negative energy becomes stuck inside our energy pools if we don't have the tools or knowledge to release it properly.
We are not all born with the ability to properly release negative energy from our bodies. Things like traumatic life experiences are difficult to live through and even more difficult to let go of. Something as simple as being yelled at by your parents for breaking a dish can send negative energy into your body. When we were children, we didn't know how to properly understand and release this negative energy. Chances are that that negative energy is still inside of you. This is how easily our chakras can become blocked by negative energy. The more it builds up, the worse it can be for your health and the harder it will be to release it.
Although this knowledge may seem overwhelming and it may make you feel hopeless, there is still a reason to have hope. We are all born with the ability to take in positive energy from the universe and give positive energy back to the universe. Understanding, identifying, and releasing negative energy is something we need to learn. Identifying the negative energy is always the first step. Now that you know what negative energy is and where it comes from, you are 
 already on your way to learning how to release it properly and unblock your chakras. Once you learn to release the negative energy inside you and your chakras are balanced, you will see that it is not as easy for the negative energy to enter your body as it was before.
With Balanced Chakras Comes a Balanced Life
We all want to feel balanced in life. We want to know that we have a purpose in life or that we are walking the path that is meant for us. Having a balanced life may seem like a far-fetched idea but it's never too far out of our reach. Living a balanced life is all about having balanced chakras.
We are living in a world that we are not supposed to be living in. The modern life of technology and pollution is not the life that was intended for us. It is an unnatural existence. This is why most of us live our lives with unbalanced chakras and unhealthy bodies. Our bodies are more prone to illness and injury when the energy inside us isn't flowing the way it should be.
When you think about it, everything is energy. We are made up of energy, everything is made up of energy. The best way to live life is to be able to tell the good energy from the bad energy and learning to accept the good energy into our bodies while expelling the bad energy.
Our chakras are ponds of energy and they are being fed by a waterfall of positive energy from the universe. All of the ponds are connected. All of our chakras are connected. If one is blocked by negative energy then the natural flow of energy inside us is disrupted and it affects our health. We must not only pay more attention to ourselves but we must pay more attention to all of our chakras.
If we wish to have a healthy and balanced life then our minds, bodies, souls, and chakras must also be in perfect balance.







Chapter 6: 
 Levels of Reiki
Before getting started with Reiki, it is important to know that it comes in different levels or degrees. They can be seen as rankings, much like how an employee can go from a low-level position to a high-level one in their respective field. You can also see them as a way for an individual to upgrade their skills, going from beginner to intermediate until reaching the advanced level. 
3 Levels or Degrees of Reiki
In the world of Reiki, there are three levels or degrees. When one is interested in practicing Reiki, you  will need to climb these levels to master the healing methods. They will especially come in handy when you want to see what goes beyond the current level you are in. Such degrees also represent a person's ability to fully understand Reiki healing. This is a way for the student to become a master in the end. 
First Degree
The first degree or Level 1 of Reiki is a practitioner's initiation. It is open to everyone and has the goal of helping individuals to be comfortable with the Reiki principles. This is where you will learn the ins and outs of the practice, as well as how it works right from the start.
The students who wish to become practitioners in the near future will have their attunement in Level 1. Done by the Reiki masters, the attunement will help them connect to the life energy that surrounds us.
Also, it is known that students going through Level 1 will be given lessons about Reiki's history and methods along with group practice sessions. 
In a way, the first degree encourages practitioners to take the first step towards mastery. 
Second Degree
The second degree or Level 2 allows you to practice Reiki on others while making use of the symbols and slowly expanding or opening more energy channels. This is where the student will begin to apply what they have learned from Level 1 and share their energy to 
 others. They can also understand what the symbols mean and how they can be utilized while practicing Reiki. 
Level 2 helps practitioners learn new techniques of channeling energy, such as the method of being able to draw the symbols and send healing energy to others even when they are in the same room. 
As for the Level 2 attunement, the intensity is quite high since this is where the student will begin to open the central channel. That's why Reiki masters have recommended to wait for at least 21 days up to three months before trying to jump from the first level to the second one. Once the waiting time is over, the students at Level 2 can undertake the attunement process. 
Another thing to take note of the Level 2 attunement is that the Reiki symbols for power, harmony, and  distance are given to a student by the Reiki master to indicate that they are finally being passed onto them. 
It is not common, but it has been said that some Reiki masters even combine the lessons of Level 1 and 2 together. 
Third Degree (Inner Master)
Finally, the third degree or Level 3 of Reiki represents a student's mastery. Known as the Inner Master, the student becomes the teacher at this point. Mostly referred as a Reiki master, this is when they can become the practitioner. 
By reaching Level 3, the student will not only learn more methods but also gain the opportunity to attune others. In this way, the newly-appointed master can pass on what they have learned to help others achieve their goals as well. 
The Level 3 attunement, commonly referred to as the Master Attunement, will have the practitioner open up energy channels on a much deeper level than what was achieved in Levels 1 and 2. To put it in a simpler way, it is where the session will get more intense than usual. Just like in Level 2, one must wait for a while before undertaking the Level 3 attunement. 
With all this being said, it is important to remember that not all of the Reiki masters teach the same way. Even when they are practicing the Usui Reiki method, they may add some moves and guidelines 
 that are not seen in the traditional way. So, make sure to do your research and pick the Reiki master whom you feel will bring you closer to your goals. 
How to Ascend Through Reiki Levels
Unlike other alternative healing methods, ascending through the levels or degrees of Reiki healing has a process. First, when you have learned what you need to know from Level 1, you must go through an attunement process with a certified Reiki master who has already achieved the highest level. Second, you will take courses that will help you achieve the succeeding levels. This means you will study the lessons, practice methods, and understand other essential things that will assist you along the journey. You will also learn the distinctive points of the levels and how vital they are when mastering Reiki and integrating the symbols. 
Once the time passes after your Level 1 attunement, you can undertake the Level 2 attunement. After that, you will become a Reiki master by the time you achieve Level 3. This is where you will tackle your master attunement task and become recognized as a real practitioner. From there, you can help others who would like to achieve the same thing and give them their attunement as well. You can even put up your own practice and become a practitioner like the other Reiki masters across the globe. 
Keep in mind that when you are ascending through the Reiki levels, you need to be patient and observant. You cannot rush through all of them at once. Instead, take your sweet time and let yourself be one with the process. This will also give you a chance to apply what you have learned and practice everything. It will come in handy when you start learning the new healing techniques later. 
Remember that your journey doesn't end even when you become a Reiki master. At Level 3, you will see that it has only begun. More opportunities, pathways, and experiences await you now.








Chapter 7: Reiki Healing Hand Positions for a Healthier and Better Life   
  

How Reiki Healing Works: The Theory
When looked at from the most obvious level, it is clear that Reiki treatment has a direct impact on lowering stress levels and releasing tension from the system. Further than this, it also helps a person move towards a better balance in body, mind and spirit. Even more, it can help the body's own natural healing mechanisms to kick in again and begin to function more effectively.
What Exactly Is Reiki Doing?
So, the question is, how does Reiki lower stress and help enable the body to heal? An exact answer to this question remains to be found. However, there have been increasing levels of research covering the effects of Reiki. There is now evidence showing its effect on lowering heart rate, blood pressure, and stress hormones. It has also been shown to improve immune strength. While we have evidence to show the effects Reiki has, we can only offer broad theories as to what causes these effects and how exactly the healing is occurring.
Reiki affects us on multiple levels and often with immediate results. This suggests that Reiki is a complex process that interacts with many of the body's systems simultaneously. It results in the body shifting from a stressed state, also known as fight-or-flight mode, to one of relaxation, where the body is primed to heal itself-this is referred to as a parasympathetic state. Many scientists suggest that this shift is triggered on a subconscious level in an area referred to as the biofield.
What Is the Biofield?
The biofield refers to an area that surrounds the physical body. 
 Medical science has adopted the term to explain the vibrational energy field that is believed to exist in this space. There is no way of actually studying the biofield as current technology is not yet capable of verifying its existence. Having said this, traditional and indigenous cultures have recognized this biofield of energy for thousands of years, and it has always been believed to be a cornerstone of health and wellbeing. Any disruption to this biofield was seen as a loss in balance and the beginning of an illness. So, just because science has not developed far enough to examine this phenomenon, it does not mean it should be dismissed. The wisdom from indigenous cultures runs much deeper than science, which is a relatively new faculty in terms of human history.
Many healing traditions from indigenous cultures use vibration to restore the necessary balance to the mind and body. We can see evidence of this in practices such as ceremonial drumming, chanting rituals, and humming. There is plenty of science to support the therapeutic benefits of vibration through music and sounds. This has led musicians to purposely construct music that can raise or lower people's energies to the desired level. One song called Weightless was developed by Marconi Union to help relieve stress. The song is said to decrease stress levels by up to 60% once listened to with closed eyes. You can feel the vibrational shift through listening to the song as your body's natural rhythm realigns itself. Some say that Reiki's healing benefits are derived from a similar vibrational mechanism, one which increases the level of coherence in the body and decreases the level of dissonance.
Another theory suggests that a Reiki practitioner's hands hold the power of the energetic vibrations which are transmitted to the recipient. These vibrations are then passed from the practitioner to the client to induce healing. The effect could then cause the client to have a shift in awareness as they recognize the healing power they hold within is the key to their wellbeing, regardless of their current state of health. Reiki could then be seen as helping a person resync back to health, similar to how grandfather clocks in the same room adjust to the rhythm of the main clock or how we, too, become 
 relaxed in the presence of someone who is very peaceful. Reiki can connect the practitioner with a deep, inner peace regardless of how they are feeling at that moment.
Many other therapies aim to restore the biofield's balance. These include yoga, acupuncture, qigong, and shiatsu to name but a few. Reiki is one of the most subtle of these therapies as it uses mainly vibrations rather than physical manipulation or even gentle force. It is also suggested by some that Reiki does not act in the biofield at all but rather another field known as the unified field. Some believe that Reiki is more similar to meditation than other energy therapies.
Reiki Compared to Other Treatments
According to the NCCIH, Reiki is an alternative medicine practice that complements existing practices by using energy that is still to be measured by science. Most energy healing methods presume that humans inhabit a certain type of energy which both runs through us and around us. It is believed that energy therapies such as Healing Touch help to bring equilibrium to these energies.
As mentioned, many Reiki practitioners see Reiki as completely distinct to most energy healing and more akin to meditative practices. Many energy healing methods use specific ways to gain access to a person's biofield to make alterations; Reiki does not try to diagnose problems or purposely alter the energy field. They are more passive in their involvement as the energy finds its path.
Reiki practice by nature is extremely passive. A practitioner's hand does not move for most of the treatment duration. The only time they do is alter placements of the hands. A Reiki practitioner is a neutral party; they do not make an effort to change a person or change their energy field. A Reiki practitioner does not try to harness and use Reiki energy; they simply rest their hands on a person's body. Sometimes, they will rest their hands just above the body, in cases where there is an open wound or burn that needs to 
 be healed.
The energy that arises in a practitioner's hands comes naturally as it responds to the needs of the individual for balance in certain areas. Because of this, every treatment is tailored to meet the specific needs of that person, although the practitioner often uses a similar process for every session.
Reiki is best administered in a complete session; however, it can also be given in a shorter session to tackle certain points of a person's body. In pressing circumstances, even a few minutes of Reiki makes a big difference.
How Reiki Healing Is Done: The Healing Session
Reiki session has no standard or even a set time limit or exact protocol to be adhered to. It is allowed to be performed by anyone who has received the necessary training. This might be someone who is professionally qualified, but it can also be a healthcare provider or a friend or member of your family; it could even be you. There is also no typical setting required for Reiki. Generally, Reiki works best somewhere quiet, but it can be performed anywhere, regardless of what is going on in the vicinity and no matter what is happening to the person receiving it. A few moments of Reiki often brings relaxation to emergencies. It is often administered directly after injuries occur and even during and after surgeries.
Who Should I See?
To give yourself the best experience possible, you must take the time to do some research before choosing a practitioner that you believe you can be comfortable with. You should decide whether you want to receive Reiki from a friend or a professional you do not know. If you have a friend that you feel very comfortable with, it can 
 help improve the bonding experience. However, if you are not naturally comfortable with strangers, you may want to choose a professional for a greater level of experience. Try to meet with your practitioner beforehand to get a feel for the person and to know what to expect from the session.
Look for a practitioner who describes the process to you clearly and details how they plan to structure the session. This will help you know what to expect when going into the session, and it will make you more at ease. Your personal experience of Reiki will be very different from most others, but if you know what to expect before going in, it always helps.
What Is the Setting?
The most beneficial setting is one where it is quiet and where you will not be disturbed. Most professional Reiki practitioners will have a space dedicated to their practice. If they are doing house calls, they will usually have plenty of knowledge of how best to set up an optimal space. Practitioners often play soft music during sessions to promote relaxation through ambient sounds. If you prefer to have no music, however, do not be afraid to let your practitioner know.
The length of sessions can vary widely. For those receiving Reiki in hospitals and nursing homes, sessions tend to only last around twenty minutes. Professional practitioners provide treatments that last up to ninety minutes. Most Reiki treatments are in between the two.
How Do I Sign Up?
Many practitioners will provide clients with intake forms and will conduct a screening interview beforehand to discover the client's health history or if any underlying issues need to be raised. 
 However, because of the nature of Reiki and its origins, many practitioners avoid these types of processes as they are more associated with mainstream medical practices. Reiki is often seen as more informal and less structured than typical medical procedures. Many times, you will need to fill out a consent form.
Next, the entire process will be explained to you and the practitioner will ask if you have any specific needs or requests. It is your job to inform the practitioner if you suffer from any conditions that may affect the session, especially if lying flat on your back or front will be a problem or if there are any places where you are sensitive to touch. In some more formal places, such as hospitals or healthcare environments, a practitioner may have to ask if they are allowed to use their hands on the body.
What Is Involved in a Session?
A full Reiki session requires the recipient to be lying down or upright in a comfortable chair.
Usually, Reiki is performed with soft touches, where the practitioner's hands are placed in multiple locations. These include the head and front and back of a person's belly area. A practitioner should not put their hands in private places, and they should not feel intrusive.
Extra placements on injured parts of the body may be performed as needed, such as on the arm for a surgical scar. The practitioner can also hold their hands just above the affected area if it is sore to the touch, providing the same treatment benefits.
What Is the Experience Like?
The experience of Reiki is very subjective. Sometimes, the changes are very subtle and not initially noticeable to the recipient. 
 However, there seems to be an array of shared experiences many people feel during a Reiki treatment. 
Some people quote a feeling of heat emanating from the practitioner's hands, while others note a refreshingly cool feeling coming from their hands. Some also experience a pulsating effect where the practitioner's hands are placed as waves of energy pulsate and flow through the body.
A lot of people comment on how comforting the experience is. One study reported how recipients regularly felt that they were hovering in an altered state of consciousness while, at the same time, being fully aware of their surroundings and drawn deeply within. Others have reported falling into a deep, meditative state, while some find the experience to be quite dramatic. Some find their first Reiki session to be not very eventful, but they often report feeling good afterward. The usual resulting feeling is one of deep relaxation and an instant release of stress.
Reiki is a compounding practice and even those who do not notice much on their first time, usually get deeper and more profound experiences as they continue their sessions. Aside from the immediate after-effects of Reiki treatment, you may also experience other positive changes in the days afterward. These include better digestion, a more centered feeling as opposed to being reactive, and better and deeper sleep.
What Should I Do During the Session?
Once you have chosen a practitioner that you believe you will feel comfortable with and that has adequate skills and knowledge of Reiki, then there is not much you can do during a session other than to relax and to trust in the practitioner.
If you want to try and improve your Reiki experience however, you can try some of these tips:

Bring some music that you find relaxing to you. 
Go to the bathroom before the session so that you can lie down comfortably without the distraction of feeling the need to go to the toilet.
If you are very sensitive to being touched, it might help if you ask the practitioner beforehand what areas they plan to touch so that you know exactly what will happen during the session.
Tell the practitioner of your requirements before the session starts. If you struggle to lay flat or you have difficulty breathing in certain positions, then let them know and they can work on an alternative. Or if you have had surgery recently and are especially sensitive in an area, let them know so they can avoid causing you pain by touching it. Also, if you happen to be pregnant or are suffering from digestive problems, you may not be able to lie on your stomach. Let them know and they can help. 

As the session goes on, you should begin to feel more relaxed. If you become uncomfortable, however, be sure to adjust your position. If there is anything else you need to improve your comfort, whether it be a blanket or support for your lower back, make sure to let the practitioner know. This process is designed to help you after all, and the practitioner wants to make sure the experience is as pleasant and comfortable as possible for you.
Do not try to force yourself into relaxation during Reiki. Reiki is a passive experience, and you should naturally be relaxed through the session. Feel free to let your mind wander; listen to the music and your breathing as well as the feelings you experience during the session.
How Does the Session End?
Unlike most other treatments, Reiki does not give a diagnosis, so do not expect one. Practitioners may make some standard recommendations to you such as drink more fluids or to listen to your body. 
While most individuals feel refreshed after Reiki, some people note 
 that they feel more tired than usual that evening. This does not mean they reacted badly to the treatment; it is a natural response from the body to be tired after undergoing healing. People often report a rich feeling of calm and clarity after Reiki as well as very good sleep.
What is the Optimum Number of Sessions?
The person you visit might recommend several sessions to you. The traditional number of sessions is four. This tends to give you enough time to evaluate the benefits, if any, you are receiving. You should take the time to discuss how it would be most suitable to arrange the sessions to get the maximum benefits based on your needs and your schedule.
When you are facing a serious illness, most people would suggest a series of four sessions completed in less than one week. They do not necessarily have to be given by the same practitioner.
How Does Reiki Change You: The Effect

Reiki infuses you with love.
  Reiki can profoundly change your life for the better. People often say that Reiki opens you up to the power of the universe's unconditional love. They feel a humbling sense of connection to everyone and everything around us. This power helps eliminate the fear of failure, rejection, and pain. It can even help eliminate the fear of success, which holds many people back without them knowing it. It also helps to eliminate the restrictions and limitations we have unnecessarily attached to ourselves about what we believe we can and cannot do. Reiki can conquer your fears and limitations. It helps us see the love we have for ourselves and others around us. It reminds us of our connection to all things in the universe.

Reiki chooses you.
  It is said that Reiki chooses you. Nobody consciously decides to become a Reiki healer; rather, they are drawn to it by a higher power. Being called to Reiki can be overwhelming at 
 first, but it is a path that leads to contentment and peace in what you do. Many teachers talk about how most Reiki students start by saying they are not sure exactly how they got here, but it seems to be how a journey in Reiki starts for most people.

Before the attunement day.
  The pre-attunement cleansing and healing process can have a big impact on a student's life. Many who have gone through it recommend that students keep a journal for at least a month leading up to the day they are to be attuned. A lot of things that occur may seem insignificant at the time, but they are, in fact, very important. It is only in the weeks after that their value and importance will be clear to see. Looking back at yourself before attunement, you will be able to better understand the difference in how you used to think. Once you make Reiki a part of your regular habit, your views on things change. You have unleashed a talent that was there before but lay undiscovered. Now, you will be able to see life through an entirely new lens.

Becoming free
 . Reiki can open many doors for people on many levels. This includes emotionally, psychologically, and spiritually. You will develop a skill to notice small inconveniences, and you will not give them the power to disturb your feelings. You will have an ability to see through the many insignificant happenings of the everyday grind that bothers most people. You will be able to free yourself from the small problems that we often build up in front of ourselves to hold us back from living to our full and true capability. Once we begin on the path of Reiki, we experience freedom.

Reiki's blessings.
  Reiki has a whole host of blessings that continue to evolve. The most obvious of these is the new perspective we gain on our purpose through a spiritual reawakening. We gain an increased clarity of thought and action that enables us to naturally heal and be healed. The real blessing of Reiki is the knowledge we gain about our natural healing abilities and how to use them. Over time, we gain more experience and develop further wisdom about our life purpose as we go along our spiritual path. Reiki is a tool that enables us to live in this way.

Recognizing the connection to the greatness of spirit.
  Reiki 
 improves your everyday experience for the better. You start feeling more free as you experience the infinite power of the all-knowing. This spirit is what brings life and love to all things.

Chapter 8: Power of Positive Thought
 s

The phrase positive thinking sounds wonderful on the surface. Most people would rather have positive thoughts than negative ones. This phrase is a fluffy one that is usually dismissed in the real world. It doesn't carry the same weight as a phrase like hard working or work ethic. These views are changing.
Research and people are telling us that positive thinking isn't just about being happy, or pasting a smile on your face to everyone to see. Positive thoughts add real value to your everyday life and can help build skills that will last longer than a pasted-on smile.
A positive psychology researcher from the University of North Carolina, Barbara Fredrickson has helped to prove the power of positive thoughts on everyday life. Let's look at what she found and what it means for you.
Let's take a look at what negative thoughts can do to your brain. Imagine this.
Pretend you are walking in the woods. A tiger suddenly appears before you on the path. When you see the tiger, your brain automatically creates a negative emotion. For this example, it is fear.
Researchers have known for a long time that negative responses can cause you to act a certain way. Such as if a tiger crosses your path, you are going to run. Nothing else matters in that moment. Your attention is on the tiger, the fear, and how you plan on getting away.
This means that a negative emotion will narrow the focus of your mind and thoughts. At this moment, you could choose to grab a stick, climb a tree, or pick up a leaf. Your brain ignores these options because they aren't relevant when you have a tiger standing in front of you.
This is a wonderful thing to have if you need to save yourself, but in today's world, you don't have to fear walking up on a tiger in the woods. The bad news is, the brain still has a programmed response to negative emotion, and it will shut out the rest of the world and will 
 limit what you see.
One other example is if you are fighting with someone. The anger and emotions you feel might completely consume you, and you won't be able to think about anything else. If you are stressing out about everything you need to get done today, you might find it hard to focus on what you need to do or how to get started because the length of your list has you paralyzed. You might feel bad because you haven't been eating right or exercising. All you can think about is your willpower and thinking that you are lazy. This is causing you to not have any motivation.
With all of these examples, your brain shuts off to the outside world and just focuses on the emotions of stress, anger, and fear, just like with the tiger. The only thing negative emotions do is prevents your brain from seeing other options that might be around you. This is a survival instinct.
So, what do positive thoughts do to the brain?
Fredrickson created an experiment to see if positive emotions impacted the brain. In this experiment, she divided her subjects into five separate groups and showed them different movie clips.
Two groups were shown clips that created positive emotions. One group was shown things that caused tremendous joy. The other group was shown things that created contentment.
The third group was the control group, and they were shown things that caused no significant emotional change.
The last two groups were shown clips that caused negative emotions. One of the last groups saw images that created fear; the other was shown things to cause anger.
Once they had seen the images, all participants were asked to picture themselves in a place that would cause the same emotions to come up and write down what they would do. They were given a sheet of paper that had 20 fill-ins the blank lines that started with "I would like to..."
The participants that were shown images that caused fear and anger were not able to write down as many responses. The participants that were shown images that caused contentment and joy could 
 write down a lot more actions than even the control group.
This means if you feel positive emotions like love, joy, or contentment, you will see more things that you could do in life. The findings showed that positive emotions could broaden your sense of possibilities and open your mind.
More interesting discoveries came later.
Benefits from positive emotions don't end when the emotion ends. You receive the most benefits from these emotions with an ability to build greater skills that you could use later in life.
Children that run outside, swing in tree branches, and play with friends are developing physical, social, and creative skills by moving athletically, playing and communicating with others, and learning how to explore the world. This happens because the emotions of joy and play are prompting the child to build these skills that will be useful to them later in life.
These skills will last them longer than the actual emotions that initiated the learning. Negative emotions have a different effect since building skills for the future are irrelevant to the brain in a moment when you are faced with immediate danger or a threat.
These thoughts and emotions can greatly impact your life. It is important that you learn more about positive thinking.
Don't misunderstand what is meant by positive thinking. This doesn't mean that you turn a blind eye to the bad things in life. Positive thinking means that you approach unpleasant moments positively and productively. You must believe that only the best will happen.
Thinking positively starts with self-talk. If you don't know what this is, it is the stream of unspoken communication that goes through your mind. These thoughts can be negative or positive. Self-talk can come from reason or logic. It can arise from misconceptions because the lack of information that you have about something.
If your self-talk is mostly negative, then your outlook is going to be pessimistic. If your self-talk is positive, then you will be more optimistic.
Researchers continue to explore all the effects that optimism and positive thinking has on health. Here are some of the benefits:




●


Better coping skill when facing stress or hardships.




●


Improved cardiovascular health and reduced risk of dying from heart disease.




●


Improved physical and psychological well-being.




●


More resistance to getting a cold.




●


Lower stress levels.




●


Lower depression levels.




●


A longer life.




Negative self-talk comes in one of these forms:
Polarizing
You see things as either only good or only bad. There is no middle ground. You feel like you have to be perfect or you are a failure.
Catastrophizing
Your thoughts will go automatically to the worst-case scenario. Your regular coffee shop gets your order wrong, and you think that the rest of your day will be horrible.
Personalizing
If something goes wrong, or something bad happens, you automatically blame yourself. Here's an example, your friend's night out gets canceled. You automatically think it is because no one wants to be around you, so everyone canceled.
Filtering
You increase the negative parts of a situation and ignore the positive ones. For example, you had a great day at work. You got all your work done faster than normal, and your boss compliments you on the quality of work and how fast you got it done. That evening, you can only think about doing more tasks the next day and totally forget the compliments you received from your boss.
No need to fret, it is easy to change your negative thoughts with positive ones. It will take some time and effort. It is just like creating a new habit. Here are a few ways you can get started:




●


Find areas that need to be changed.




If you want to become more optimistic and practice positive thinking, find the places in your life where you are always negative. This might be your commute to work, a relationship, or basically anything. Begin by focusing on just one area.




●


Check yourself.




Every now and then check in with yourself during the day and see what you are thinking about. If you see that your thoughts are negative, figure out a way you can turn them positive.




●


Learn to love humor.




Give yourself permission to laugh and smile, especially if you are going through a hard time. Find humor in everything that happens throughout the day. If you can learn to laugh at life, you will feel less stressed.




●


Start a healthy lifestyle




Start exercising about 30 minutes a few days a week. If you don't have the time to do 30 minutes at one time, break it up into three ten-minutes sets. Exercise creates a positive effect on your mood and can help you reduce stress. Eating a healthy diet can help fuel your body and mind.




●


Surround yourself with positive things.




Be sure the people you spend time with will add positive feelings to your life. They need to be supportive and positive. They need to provide you with helpful feedback and advice. If you surround yourself with negative people, it will increase your stress and negativity.




●


Practice positive self-talk




Try to follow this rule: Never say things that you wouldn't say to a friend. You need to be encouraging and gentle. If negative thoughts do enter your mind, look at them rationally and say a positive affirmation. Think of things that you are thankful for.








Chapter 9: 
 Reiki and Meditation

Meditation is a common practice in Reiki. Many holistic healers and practitioners do include meditation of some kind in their lives. Whether they are yoga instructors, massage therapists, Reiki practitioners, or individuals that are committed to a full body, mind, and spirit wellness will use meditation regularly.  
There are two basic forms of meditation. The first is to completely clear your mind of all thoughts. The second type of meditation is to focus on a specific question, concern, or situation.  
With Reiki meditation, the focus is on Reiki energy rather than any other subject. During a Reiki meditation, you focus on the universal energy as it is within you, around you, and within everything around you. You want to feel connected to that energy to create a feeling of tranquility, connection, and peace.  
Your body will feel revitalized and full of life energy. It is a very rejuvenating type of meditation.  
When you meditate, it is recommended that you find a quiet place where you won't be disturbed. You'll want to set a relaxing atmosphere. Set the lights low, light some candles, maybe burn some incense or diffuse herbal oils. If music helps you relax, play a soothing soundtrack. 
You can sit or lie down for meditation, but if you are prone to falling asleep, sitting up may be the best idea. While it isn't bad to fall asleep during meditation, the goal is to keep a certain focus and connection with the Reiki energy which won't be as strong if you fall asleep.  
To start relaxing your mind, breathe in through your nose to the count of four and then breathe out through your mouth to the count of eight.  
After a few of these deep breaths, you'll want to start focusing on Reiki energy. Start with the energy within yourself, and as you connect to it, feel it expand outward into the universe and into the space and objects around you. You should feel the energy moving through you and around you.  
Keep your focus on that energy for as long as you want to, or as long as you feel called to. If you want to meditate for a certain amount of 
 time, set some kind of timer with a gentle call back sound like a soft bell or gong to let you when you should end the meditation.  
Meditation can take practice. If you are unfamiliar with meditation or new to meditation, you might have to work your way up to longer meditation times. Starting with just five minutes is fairly standard.  
In the beginning, it is easy to get distracted by thoughts and sounds in the room around you, like the heat coming on, the sound of a branch on the window, or thoughts of your day. Over time, with practice, these distractions won't be as prominent.  
However, there are some techniques to help you stay in that meditative mindset. One method to try is when you begin to meditate, set the tip of your tongue to the top of your mouth. If your mind starts to wander, your tongue will fall from the roof of your mouth. Any time you notice this, bring your tongue back to the roof of your mouth and refocus on your meditation.  
The tongue trick is somewhat similar to the Gassho finger technique in which you press your middle fingers together if you begin to experience thoughts that pull you away from your meditation. Starting a meditation with the Gassho technique can also help your mind focus when you move into a Reiki meditation.  
There is a somewhat standard 21-day Reiki meditation program that can help you learn more about Reiki and also help you develop your meditation skills. It is broken down into different segments to cover the 21 days. These 21 days are also symbolic of the time that Dr. Usui spent on top of a mountain in study to reach enlightenment. 








Chapter 10: Reiki and Body Energ
 y

Everything is about energy, which means that healing also ultimately involves energy. In Reiki, energy helps promote healing through enhancing the flow of energy and correcting any disturbances that occur in the "human energy field," also called the aura. This aura permeates the body and surrounds it. When the body experiences the flow of energy, the body will have the capacity to heal by itself.
Energy healing works on the basis that your body is made up of various patterns of energy. When you work directly with body energy, you will influence the mental, physical, and emotional level. Using energy healing in Reiki is seen to be holistic in nature.
This is why it is vital that when your body or mind experiences disturbances, everyone wants to address these levels. However, energy healing doesn't work on its own; rather, it supports other healing methods that we use in daily life. Reiki healing focuses on the energy of which your body, mind, and emotions are made up of.
At the center of the human field are seven primary chakras that are supported by thousands of other smaller meridians and chakras. The seven chakras are placed vertically along your spinal column, and it begins on the pelvic floor. The first one is the Root chakra that is at the level of the pelvic bone, and the one at the top is the crown chakra. Each of the chakras works as its own transmitter as well as the recipient of the energy. When the chakra receives the energy, it will direct it to corresponding organs as well as the endocrine system within the body.
The Energetic Bodies
In addition to the chakra, the human body uses the human energy field to make it work perfectly. The energy field is made up of smaller energetic bodies, which include the mental, spiritual, etheric, emotional, and physical bodies. All these allow you to relate with and experience the environment in different aspects. 
When all the chakras and energy bodies are in harmony and are working well together, you will be full of vitality and have a sense of wellness. On the other hand, when the energy centers are not balanced, you will become sluggish, and you will experience 
 confusion, fatigue, and illness at all times. You need to work with a healing practice that can identify the problem areas. He will do so to release the blockages then create a positive flow of energy in the body so that he can make you heal. Healing can happen immediately, or it can take time. 
The 5 Layers of the Human Energy Field 

Physical Energy 
 

This is the layer that we look at to be the physical part of ourselves. Although we look at the body as a package that consists of the skin, flesh, bones, and organs, they also have energy, similar to the other layers of the body that you can't see, or you cannot sense such as the mind.

Etheric 
 

This word is derived from the word "ether," - which is a layer that sits from one quarter to one half of an inch but not any more than an inch, from the location of the physical body. The practitioners that have sensed this body describe it as a feeling that is gray in color. It is like a spider web, and it can stretch, and it is usually seen as the blueprint of the physical layer. 

Emotional Energy 
 

This is the third layer from the outside. It is at the center of all the five layers that we have looked at. The emotional layer is the layer where fears and feelings reside. It can be very volatile when we have emotions. It comes into play whether you are experiencing both low and high emotions. 

Mental Energy 
 

This is the layer where our ideas and other emotions spring from. It also forms the store from which the belief system gets stored. This is the space where our thoughts are stored then sorted out, and it is where people store their personal truths or any perceptions that are based on experiences.

Spiritual Energy 
 

This is the final layer, where higher awareness and consciousness is stored. It is the layer where our past lives are tied as well as the 
 universal consciousness that is common to all people. 
Why Should You Be Concerned About Energy Field? 
You need to be aware that the personal energy field has a huge impact on the general sense of wellbeing. People are usually aware of how important personal hygiene is. You need to know that the physical body gets dirty when you use it, and it can pick up viruses and bacteria that can lead to disease. If you stop looking after your body, your physical health, as well as a sense of wellbeing, will also suffer. 
Have you ever felt that your state of mind feels "dirty" when your body is dirty as well? This is because everything that you do is connected to the energy, which also means that every part of your life comes with an energy component. Visible dirt is just a part of the bigger problem. Any part of your body is made up of many energy frequencies, most which cannot be seen with the naked eye. However, you need to know that the unseen energy frequencies will affect the energy field as well. 
The major problem that we face is that we have grown up in a society that doesn't acknowledge the unseen energies and how they are important to our lives. In school, we are only taught about the energies that we can see, and how they affect our lives, we aren't taught about what we cannot see. 
For you to understand how it all works, you need to look at all the five layers of the human energy fields. It is a fact that for you to have total body hygiene, you ought to keep all the five layers of body energy clean. When you know the different fields, you will be able to know that the conditions in your body that you think is caused by physical causes might be due to energy imbalance. You don't need to limit yourself at a single part of the body; rather, you need to look at the different layers before you make any conclusion. If you wish to handle the proper healing of the body, you need to do so by working at all the layers of the body.









Chapter 11: Reiki for Yourself and Others
 


Once you are familiar with Reiki healing and have sufficient practice on healing yourself, you can move on and try healing others. Anyone who begins Reiki healing is eager to help others with their newfound skill. In this chapter, you will learn more about how you can give Reiki to other people. You can go your own way when you master all the techniques. You can then trust your instinct and skills to treat someone properly with Reiki. 
Remember to put yourself first. This is not the same as being selfish and is all about self-care. No one is responsible for caring for you but you. Before a healer heals others, they must heal themselves. Keep this in mind. You need to learn how to relax and be good to yourself. Make time in your schedule to practice Reiki on yourself every day; the results will make you eager to continue doing so. The level 1 Reiki class in Reiki training will teach you all about practicing Reiki on yourself. Follow the class structure and make sure you regularly practice Reiki healing on yourself.  
As you keep practicing, you will discover the benefits of conducting Reiki on yourself. It will make you familiar with Reiki healing. Regular Reiki will help to maintain high levels of health in your body and good mental health as well. You will be more open and be a better Reiki channel. You will also be setting your outlook to one that is more open to receiving intuition. Try putting aside some time every morning to practice Reiki before you do anything else. It can be done before you even get out of bed. Also do this before you go to sleep every night. Use all the techniques that have been mentioned. Use meditation as an important tool. Use intention to keep the energy flowing, and hone your intuition to know how you should be moving your hands. Remember that integrity is an important aspect.  
When you move on to healing others, there are a lot of things to keep in mind. The recipient is placing their trust and faith in you; honor their trust and expectation. Do not practice Reiki until you are sure of your skills. Make people as comfortable as possible during the session. If the patient says that they don't want to lie down, give them a place to sit comfortably. Reiki can still be conducted in this position. Take time to communicate and find out what the recipient 
 is expecting from this Reiki session. Ask them about any pains and troubles they have been facing as well. Ask them to wear some comfortable clothing so that they can relax completely during the session.  
You can begin giving hands-on healing to the person when they are properly relaxed and comfortable. Use the various Reiki hand positions to heal them with Reiki. Begin the session by practicing Reiki over the crown chakra. This will help in the energy flow and allow them to enter a deeply relaxing state. Then start treating the chakras in the front. The next stage is to balance out the energy in the body. You can use spiraling as a tool for this. Ask the person to turn over and then begin healing the chakras at the back of the body. Repeat the balancing exercise. Then continue with any specific healing according to whatever illness or pains the recipient has informed you of.  
You can also use distant healing on other people. This can only be done by a Reiki practitioner who has been attuned to level 3 Reiki or the Master level. Distant healing can be carried out by using different techniques like using photographs, surrogates, imagination, intention slips, etc.  

Hand Positions in Reiki
 

Before you begin healing others, get sufficient practice in using your hands for healing yourself. This is one of the first steps to start with. The hand positions will be nearly the same even when you practice Reiki on someone else.  
You will now learn about the hand positions that are derived from the Reiki practiced by Hawayo Takata and her students. There are other hand positions taught by Mikao Usui or Hayashi that you can explore as well. The hand positions will usually be similar to the ones that are commonly used in western Reiki practices. Ultimately, you should begin with any hand positions so that you can use your intuition as a guide. The spirit will guide you in moving your hands where they are really needed.  

Follow these guidelines before you delve into hand positions.  
The Reiki recipient should be made comfortable. Let them lie on their back on a good massage table.  
As the Reiki giver, you should be standing or sitting. Choose a position that is comfortable and will allow you to perform Reiki well.  
There should be enough space around the table for you to walk around it.  
Try keeping your fingers together as you carry out all the Reiki positions.  
When you move from one position to another, do it gently. 
When you work on any organs or chakras, study about them to learn more. 
Keep all the ethical considerations in mind when you practice Reiki on another person.  


Hand Positions for Each Region in the Body
 


The Head 
 

Start at the top or the head. This is the position that you should begin with if the patient suffers from headaches, colds and allergies, toothaches, earaches, etc. It is also where you should concentrate if the person suffers from a lot of stress. It will help to establish balance throughout the body. The hand positions on the head are more important than any other.  
At the eyes and face, keep your hands over the closed eyes of the recipient. Keep your hands on both sides of the nose. Rest your fingers on the cheekbone. Let your thumbs rest together over the third eye. You can also use a tissue to protect the eyes.  
At the top of the head, keep your hands lying over this region. Both your wrists should be touching, and the fingers of each hand should be pointing downward towards the corresponding ears. Try to hover over the crown region and keep your hands away from their hair if you want. Keep your hands here for a while to ensure that the crown chakra is open.  
At the temples, keep your hands rested on either side of the forehead. Your hands should be between their hairline and eyebrows with the fingers resting lightly on the cheekbones. This hand position will help to balance the brain and increase the 
 spiritual connectivity.  
At the ears, keep your hands over each ear. It will help to calm the mind and treat an illness related to the ears.  
Behind their head, you should move your hands under the head. Roll the person's head to the opposite side as you place your hands there one by one. Your fingers should just be touching at the top of their neck while you are holding the medulla oblongata region. 

Front of the Body
 

Now let us move down to the front of the body. This will include the throat and the neck, which act as a transition point between your head and upper body.  
At the throat, use your hands to gently cup the bottom of their throat while letting the tips of your fingers touch. Don't touch the throat but keep your hands around it. This hand position will help you in healing the thyroid and parathyroid issues with Reiki. It can be used for treating the larynx, vocal cords, and lymph nodes as well. Remember that some patients might not be comfortable with your hands around their throat so keep your hands a little further away to accommodate them. 
At the collarbone, keep your hands rested on either side of the neck; your fingers should be pointing towards the center of the chest. You can give Reiki to the thymus region with this hand position. It plays an important role in immunity. 
At the back of the neck or in front of the heart, there is a different position. Keep your left hand under the neck, and the right hand should be placed over the top of the heart. This hand position heals the heart and throat chakra at the same time.  
At the heart, keep your hands in a "T" position. One hand has to be placed horizontally over the patient's breast while the other has to be in between the breasts. This position will help to heal the heart chakra. Any issues with the circulatory system, lungs, and thymus gland will require this hand position. You will be able to increase the flow of loving energy with Reiki with it.  
At the upper abdominal region, keep your hands straight under the chest area. Use this hand position while performing Reiki on the 
 spleen or any digestive organs. It will also treat the solar plexus chakra.  
At the middle abdomen, keep your hands a little further down compared to the previous position under the chest. One hand should be above the navel while the other should be below it. Illness of the pancreas, intestines, and gallbladder will require this hand position. 
At the sacral and lower abdominal region, keep your hands on the lower abdomen. Each hand should be placed in front of the other. Make sure your hands are away from the genital region. The sacral chakra is healed with this hand position. You can also use it while healing the pelvic region, bladder, and any reproductive issues.  

Back of the Body
 

The next hand positions are for the back of the body. The recipient has to turn over for this. If they are in a deep state of rest, give them some time and calmly ask them to change positions. This position will give you easier access to some chakras in the body and helps treat any back issues.  
At the upper shoulders, keep your hands under their neck and on top of each shoulder. It will help to relieve tension in this region and is also helpful to treat the throat chakra.  
At the shoulder blades, move your hands a few inches down and keep them rested on top of the shoulder blades. Use this position while healing the heart chakra or any issues with lungs or heart in the recipient.  
At the waist area, place both your hands. You can use it while treating the solar plexus chakra, kidneys, and adrenal gland.  
At the lower back region, keep your hands rested on the hollow of their back, above the buttock region. Use this position for releasing tension in the lower back and for treating the sacral chakra.  

Legs and Feet
 

Lastly, you have the positions for the legs and feet. Originally, there were no standard positions for this region. You can continue with treating these areas while the person is still lying on their front and their back faces you. You can either sit near their feet or choose to stand, depending on which position is comfortable for you.  
At the knees, use your hands to hold them on either side. You can cup the knee from both sides with your hands and treat patients with any knee pain or injury.  
While treating the ankles, keep each hand on each ankle. This hand position helps balance the energy of both the legs. 
For the soles of the feet, firmly place each hand on the back of each foot. This hand position will have a grounding effect and helps to bring balance to the body.  

Using Hand Positions for Physical Healing
 

Eyes
You can use Reiki to treat any ailments related to the eye like cataracts or glaucoma. Take a paper napkin and cover the eyes with it. Use your fingers to move over the eyes and then to the side of the head. Then move your fingers to the back of the head. For some people, it may take just a few sessions to treat their condition, but others might require months. It is advisable to carry this out for at least fifteen minutes every day to see results.  
Nose
Here I will tell you how you can practice Reiki over the region of the nose. Take a paper napkin and cover the nose with it without blocking the nostrils. Use your hands to move over the nose and then the cheekbones from where you move to the forehead, and lastly, the top of the head. 
Ears
Take your hands and place them over the ears. Put a finger in each ear. Then move the patient to the side and place your hand behind their ear. Do this on the other ear as well after turning them to the other side. The solar plexus, as well as the throat region, should be healed when addressing ailments with the ears. When the session is over, the ears should be cleaned out, and eyes washed.  
Voicebox
You can also use Reiki to heal the voice box and build up the voice. At the place where the throat joins the shoulder, place your hand, and practice healing all over the throat. 

Teeth and Gums
 

Place your hand over both the jaws and move them to cover all the teeth. The gums will also get tightened as the healing starts working. This also addresses any concerns in the mouth or tongue.  
Goiter
The solar plexus and the kidney need to be healed. Use your hands for healing at the location of the goiter near the root of the neck. Digestion needs to be improved, and the heart also has to be treated.  

Warts and Polyps
 

Place your hands over warts or polyps as you use Reiki. With time, they will detach and fall off right from the roots. When polyps are physically cut off, the roots remain and they recur. Reiki healing helps to complete uprooting and removal. 
Migraines
Wrong nutrition is usually the reason for headaches from migraine. This is why you need to heal the kidneys and stomach for this. Also focus on the top, back, and sides of the head along with the throat. 
Balding and Hair Loss  
Proper diet is essential to treat this along with Reiki.  
Asthma
Find the place at the root of the throat where the throat joins the shoulders, and place your hands there. Then move to the underside of the jaws to the cheeks and nose. For a female, you should address healing of the ovaries and for a male, the prostate.  
By now you are familiar with hand positions that are used while performing Reiki on every region of the recipient's body. There are some additional Reiki positions that you can learn as well. Remember to respect the boundaries of the recipient. If they are uncomfortable with any position, switch instantly. Don't try to force them at any point. On sensitive regions like the genitals or breasts, keep the hands hovering above the region and try avoiding any direct contact. Reiki can always be conducted without touching the body, so respect all ethical boundaries.  







Chapter 12: Affirmations
An affirmation is a positive sentence that will affect your conscious and subconscious mind. Repeating an affirmation has the power of helping it manifest. If you visualize and repeat your affirmation continuously, it will help in the manifestation of your desires much faster. Using affirmations with Reiki will make the result more profound. 
Positivity plays a very important role in your life. People probably tell you to stay positive all the time while assuring you that everything will be fine. There is more to this than just words. Positive thoughts and energy can be very powerful. If you focus on the bad things and negative thoughts in your life, this will result in the manifestation of those. 
Thinking and acting positively will therefore help in the manifestation of positive results in your life. I'm not saying that a miracle will happen and you will get an expensive car just by saying you will get it the next day; however, if that car is what you want, use it in your affirmation sentence. When you practice Reiki and repeat this affirmation over time, it will help you get that car. You may be wondering how this is possible. Well, when you focus on that car or just anything else, you know what you want. 
Reiki and meditation will help to change your mindset and life to a much more positive one. This will make it possible to be determined and work singularly until you achieve your goal of buying that car. This is how the manifestation will work in your favor. When you keep lamenting your bad luck or anything negative, your energy and thoughts are focused on those. This drains you of the positive energy required to live your life more productively. Can you understand a little now? 
Negative thoughts can arise at any moment, and they may be very overwhelming at times; however, with the help of Reiki, you can exercise control over these thoughts and turn them into more positive ones. Your negative thoughts should never overpower the positivity in you. For this, you need to maintain balance in your chakras, lead a healthy lifestyle, and practice Reiki regularly. 
Healing with Affirmations
Affirmations are an easy and simple tool for healing. There is no complicated formula, symbol, or technique involved. This is why it is one of the easiest tools to use in your daily life, but it has a profound impact. 
One of the ways to heal with affirmations is to chant. Chanting is a practice that is used all over the world and in various religions. Just repeating certain words with complete faith has a way of harnessing power into them. This is why you should try repeating your affirmation like a chant whenever you get a chance. 
Use the affirmation chant to charge a bottle of water or some crystal that you can carry with you all day. You can also write the affirmation on some paper and place a glass of water over it. This water can be consumed or sprayed around your space when it is charged with the affirmation. 
Another method involves using Reiki more proactively. Write your affirmation on a paper and then practice Reiki over it with your palms. You can either hold the affirmation paper or hover over it with your hands. You can also do this by keeping a bottle of water on the table. Now use your palms to hover over this bottle. Invoke Reiki and the associated symbols as you chant the affirmation. Try visualizing the outcome of your affirmation while you move your hands over the water. This also helps to charge that bottle of water with positive energy, and you can continue consuming it throughout the day. 
Meditating on an affirmation is a healthy and effective practice. Take time out every day to meditate over your desired goal. Sit in a peaceful place and take some calming breaths. Close your eyes and begin chanting the affirmation. Meditate on the outcome that you desire. Visualize it happening. This can be a powerful tool and will strengthen your belief in the possibility of the affirmation manifesting. 
Using crystals is another great alternative to try. Find the appropriate crystal for your purpose and cleanse it before you use it. Crystals absorb energy from each person they come in contact with, and you need to make sure the crystal you use is cleansed for your purpose. Now hold the crystal in your palms and use Reiki to charge it. Focus and use your complete concentration to repeat 
 your affirmation as you hold the crystal. Direct the affirmation into the crystal and manifest the energy from your third-eye chakra. Visualize a white light coming from your chakra and beaming into the crystal. Then imagine the outcome of your affirmation happening. Use this charged crystal and keep it in a sacred space. You can also choose to carry it with you at all times. 
All of the ways given above are just some of the options available to you. You can heal with affirmations in many ways. The affirmation that you create in the first place should be a powerful and meaningful sentence. This does not mean it has to be something complex and long; in fact, it should be a short and clear sentence. Think well about what you want to manifest and then use it as an affirmation. 








Chapter 13: Meditations to Help You Align with Reiki

The following meditations are guided to help you answer your own energy healing needs. Whether you have been attuned to Reiki or not, you can begin to use the principles, pillars, and other tools of Reiki to align better with channeling the energy all around you for healing purposes. You can give yourself all of the healing efforts that you need with these simple instructions and mediations.
For all of these meditation experiences, you will need to find a quiet and comfortable space to help you feel connected to your energy and provide an undisturbed atmosphere of relaxation and relief. You can put on some soothing music and light some incense and candles to create the healing energy all around you.
For some, sitting in a chair or in a cross-legged pose on the floor will be comfortable, while others may want to lie down on a floor mat or other comfortable furniture. Choose the space that allows you to feel the most focused and relaxed.
These three guided meditations are meant to be used on a regular basis to help you treat your own healing needs. Using them only once or twice won't have a lasting benefit and you will need to use them regularly if you are looking for results.
Meditation to Heal the Auric Field
This meditation is designed to help you focus on the auras of the energetic body. You can use it with your own practices or simply follow these guidelines.
In a comfortable position, begin with a Mu-Shin gassho.
Recite the 5 Principles of Reiki in your mind.
Just for today, I will not worry.
Just for today, I will not be angry.
Just for today, I will do my work honestly.
Just for today, I will give thanks for my many blessings.
Just for today, I will be kind to every living thing.
Take many deep breaths, in and out, for a few moments and center yourself.
Close your eyes and continue your breaths.
Through your third eye, look at your auric field and begin to see its color and light. Try not to decide what it should look like; only try to see what it is showing you.
As you start to gain focus on your auric field, allow yourself to discover if there is anything visible that looks unwanted, unnecessary, unhealthy, or destructive to your energy. It could be dark spots, shadowy blocks, people, places, or things. Keep in mind and remember that Reiki allows you to see through your subconscious consciously and so you will want to just let whatever comes up to exist.
When you have identified a mysterious element or several, begin to focus on the palms of your hands and the crown of your head. See light energy coming through the top of your head and traveling through your whole body.
Let the light coming through your crown begin to beam out of the palms of your hands. When you see that light coming through your palms, begin to direct your hands to the areas of your auric field that have any spots that need healing.
Gently place your healing hands over the spot you recognize in your auric field. Send Reiki energy into the spot and stay here until you feel ready to move to the next spot.
Continue to do this until all of your "aura spots" have been removed or cleared.
Reexamine your auric field and make sure that you have released any dark spots or debris (again it could appear as something not described here).
With everything removed, let your hands relax next to you on the 
 floor if you are lying down, or on your lap if you are seated.
Now see the light beaming through your crown as a golden light. See it sparkle and shimmer as it fills your whole body. 
Let this golden light seep out of your skin and envelop all of your auric fields, out to the causal layer.
Spend several breaths allowing this golden light to fill your entire energetic space.
When you are ready, present a Mu-shin gassho, give thanks to the Reiki for guiding you, and release yourself from the meditation.
Drink a glass of clean water and rest for several minutes reflecting on your experience. 
Use this meditation several days a week to kick start your self-healing experience.
Meditation to Heal the Karmic Past
This meditation can be helpful when you are needing to heal deeper emotional wounds and family patterns that keep you locked in unhealthy cycles and habits. You can use this meditation as often as you need to, and it is recommended daily for at least two weeks to help you resolve deeper emotional issues in your life.

Begin your meditation in a lying down position. Use whatever pillows or bolsters you need to support your low back and hips.


Bring your attention to your breathing and offer thanks to your healing with the Reiki principles with a simple gassho. 


Ask for Reiki and Universal life-force energy to guide you on your healing path.


Ask for guidance and assistance from your spirit guides and any other Masters of healing in the Universe.


Close your eyes and release any tension in your body as you inhale and exhale. Spend a few minutes with this.


As you become more relaxed, use your third eye to feel that Reiki energy beaming through your crown and filling your whole body. Let it come to the palms of your hands and the soles of your feet, grounding you and preparing you to heal the past.


Either place your palms on your hips, on either side of your root chakra or set them at the very tops of your thighs, as close to your root chakra as you can get (your root chakra is at the base of your spine).


See the Reiki energy beaming through the layer of your skin, tissue, muscle, and bone, to your red root chakra energy. Spend time visualizing this healing energy connecting to your root.


Allow anything to come up that needs to. You may see flashes of light, images of someone's face, a past memory. You may feel a lot of emotions and may be compelled to cry or feel upset. Try not to avoid the feelings or sensations and just let them rise.



                    
 As you begin to notice what issues are coming up, see the Reiki energy beaming from your palms connecting to those ideas or visuals. Allow the light energy to dissolve the issue from the past, or the karmic wounds that are lifting up out of your root chakra. 



                    
 Allow plenty of time to experience this meditative part. You may see family in your third eye that you knew as a child or an experience you had. You may feel emotions that are 
 not attached to a specific image. However it manifests, let the Reiki energy beam light and love through the palms of the hands and into the root chakra. 



                     
 When you feel like there is nothing else coming up for resolve, allow your hands to relax at your sides and breathe for several moments.  



                    
 If your hands feel guided to another chakra after releasing energy from the root, allow your hands to travel to that area and perform the same actions as you did with the root chakra. Let the Reiki field show you what to heal and continue until you are guided to stop.



                     
 
 Return to your relaxed position and take several breaths.



                     
 When you are ready, release the meditation and give gratitude to Reiki with a gassho.

This can be an intense purging and cleansing experience. Be gentle with yourself and your energy afterward and enjoy some simple pleasures, like a walk, or some soothing music with a cup of tea.
Meditation to Awaken the Channels of Light
The last meditation will offer you a special way to ignite the whole chakra system. This is very beneficial for a spiritual awakening practice and also for balancing your entire system for general health and happiness.







Chapter 14: Frequently Asked Questions About Reiki
There are several questions that are commonly asked about Reiki.  In this chapter, these questions will be answered to help individuals get a clear and accurate knowledge about the Reiki system.
Where does the Reiki energy originate?
Reiki energy is usually perceived as a subtle energy, which is different from other physical energy, such as chemical energy or electricity.  Reiki energy originates from the Higher Power.  The Higher Power is found on a dimension, which is higher than the physical world that people have come to know.
When the Reiki energy is perceived in a precognitive manner, it may seem to come down from up above, entering the top of a Reiki practitioner's head.  Then, it may appear to flow through the practitioner's body and coming out of the hands.  On the other hand, the real source of the Reiki energy is within oneself.  The energy comes from a transcendental part of oneself, which is linked to an inexhaustible healing energy supply.
Is the Reiki system a type of religion?
While Reiki is fundamentally spiritual, it is not considered a religion.  For one, the Reiki system does not demand practitioners to change their spiritual or religious beliefs.  Practitioners have the freedom to preserve what they believe in and make decisions based on the nature of their religious beliefs and practices.
How is a Reiki treatment administered?
In a basic treatment, the Reiki energy flows from a practitioner's hands going to the client.  More often than not, the client is lying on a massage table; however, Reiki treatments can also be administered even if the client prefers to stand or sit.  
During the treatment, the client is fully clothed.  The practitioner directs his or her hands on the client's body, making use of various hand positions.  The practitioner usually places his or her hands around the head, stomach, shoulders, and feet of the client.  The practitioner can also use more specific positions depending on the needs of the client.  
Each position is held for at least 3 to 10 minutes.  Once again, this depends on how much flow of Reiki energy the client needs.  A standard treatment usually takes 45 minutes to 1 ½ hours.
How does a Reiki treatment feel?
The experience or feeling during a Reiki treatment is different from one client to another.  However, all clients of a Reiki treatment will definitely experience a feeling of deep relaxation.  In most cases, clients tend to drift off to sleep during the treatment.  
Most clients who have already experienced a Reiki treatment claimed to have a glowing radiance surrounding and flowing through them.  In addition, a state of well-being and peace is experienced given that the Reiki energy promotes letting go of all fear, anxiety, tension, or other negative feelings.  Others claim to float outside their bodies while some claim to have mystical visions or experiences.
Once the treatment session ends, a client would surely feel refreshed and at the same time have a more balanced and positive outlook.
What does Reiki treat?
Reiki has a positive effect on almost all kinds of negative conditions and illness.  These include minor physical conditions, such as bee stings, stomach aches, flu, and colds and major physical conditions, such as cancer, heart disease, and leukemia among others.  Reiki also has the ability to relieve emotional and mental problems, including anxiety and depression.
Reiki can also reduce or eliminate side effects from regular medical treatments, including post-operative depression and pain and negative effects of chemotherapy.  It can also improve one's healing rate as well as reduce the period of hospital confinement.  
There are numerous cases wherein Reiki treatment has helped.  In fact, some people who have gone through Reiki treatment sessions have claimed complete healing as confirmed from their medical tests before and after they have undergone Reiki treatment.
While Reiki can bring about miracles to some clients, this cannot be vouched.  The true promise of a Reiki treatment is reduction of stress as well as improvement in an individual's psychological and physical condition.
To receive a Reiki treatment, does one need to stop seeing a psychologist or regular doctor?
An individual who wants to experience a Reiki treatment does not need to stop seeing his or her doctor.  This is because Reiki can work in conjunction with regular psychological or medical treatments.  
In fact, most Reiki practitioners would recommend seeing a licensed health care specialist in addition to undergoing Reiki treatment sessions, especially if the client has a psychological or medical condition.
Reiki can work with all other healing forms, including surgery, medications, alternative care methods, and psychological care.
Can anyone learn to do the Reiki?
Given that Reiki is a simple technique, more and more people regardless of age, gender, or nationality, are learning it.  One does not need any prior experience with meditation, healing, or any type of training to learn the Reiki.  This is because it is taught in a non-conventional manner where a teacher transfers the Reiki energy to the student through a process referred to as attunement.  Once the student receives an attunement, he or she already has the ability to do the Reiki.  The student can already place his or her hands to treat oneself or another individual as the healing Reiki energy automatically begins to flow.
Are children allowed to learn the Reiki?
Even children can learn the Reiki as long as they are old enough to understand the concepts of the Reiki system.  It is also 
 recommended for children to receive the Reiki. 
How many levels are there in a Reiki training?
There are four levels in a Reiki training based on the Usui or Tibetan Reiki system.  These include first, second, advanced, and Master levels.
How long will it take for one to learn the Reiki?
More often than not, Reiki centers that offer classes start on a weekend, specifically for beginners.  The class usually takes one or two days.  It is highly recommended to finish at least 6 to seven hours of a Reiki class.  In addition, apart from the attunement, a student is also shown how to give treatments to oneself and to others as well as practice giving treatments during class.
What does Reiki attunement mean?
A Reiki attunement is the process wherein an individual receives the ability to provide Reiki treatments.  During a Reiki class, a Reiki Master administers the attunement and touches the head, shoulders, and hands of the student while making use of one or more breathing techniques.  The attunement energies then flow through the Reiki Master going to the student.  Attunement energies are special energies, which are guided by the Higher Power.  These energies also adjust through the energy pathways of the student, connecting him or her to the Reiki source.
During the attunement, the energetic aspect, which is guided by the Higher Power adjusts itself to become exactly what the student needs.  Some students may have visions of spiritual beings or see colors during the attunement.  Others may feel warmth in their hands.  On the other hand, students undergoing an attunement may simply feel more relaxed without having an inner experience.  In both cases, an attunement works.
Can an individual get more than one attunement?
An attunement lasts a lifetime; as such, when one receives as 
 attunement, it will last his or her whole life.  If one gets an additional attunement for the similar level, it will strengthen and refine the Reiki energy.
What is lineage?

Once an individual receives Reiki, he or she will be part of a succession of teachers, which leads to the founder of the Reiki system.  For instance, if a teacher practices the Usui Reiki, the lineage would lead to Dr. Usui.
What can an individual expect or feel when giving a Reiki treatment?
When a practitioner gives a Reiki treatment, the Reiki energy flows through him or her prior to leaving the hands and flowing to the client.  As such, the practitioner also receives a treatment.  When the Reiki energy flows, the practitioner will feel uplifted and more relaxed.  Some practitioners claim to have spiritual experiences when giving treatment.  Others claim to receive insights about the client's needs, allowing them to heal in a deeper way.
Can a practitioner treat oneself?
Once a practitioner receives the attunement, he or she can treat oneself and others.  This is one of Reiki's unique features as other types of healing or treatment do not allow an individual to treat oneself.
How does sending Reiki to others at a distance work?
During the second level of the Reiki training, a practitioner is given three symbols, which are empowered during the attunement.  One of the three symbols include distant healing.  
Reiki distance healing works by securing a picture of the individual whom the practitioner wants to send Reiki to.  The practitioner may also write the individual's name on a paper; think of the person; or activate the distant symbol to send Reiki regardless of where the individual is located.  There is no difference in the quality of Reiki 
 healing a practitioner provides whether the client is near or hundreds of miles away.  The Reiki energy will go directly to the client and treat him or her.  Some practitioners also send Reiki to world leaders, especially during critical or crisis situations to help them.
Is Reiki treatment safe for pregnant women?
Given that the Reiki energy is guided by the Higher Power, it will know the client's condition and adjust as needed.  Only positive and good things are provided during a Reiki treatment.  As such, many women, even those who are pregnant receive Reiki treatments.  Apart from providing great benefits to pregnant women, Reiki also treats the unborn child.  Reiki is also used during child birth.
Is Reiki treatment safe for babies?
Most babies who have received Reiki treatment love it.  The Reiki energy adjusts to the needs of babies; therefore, parents do not need to worry about the treatment or energy being too strong.
Can Reiki also treat animals and plants?
Most animals that receive Reiki treatment seem to have an innate understanding of the Reiki as well as its benefits.  Plants also have a positive response to Reiki as they grow healthier and stronger.  
Does the Reiki treatment involve any side effects?
While people who receive the Reiki treatment feel uplifted and relaxed after a Reiki treatment, some individuals experience a "healing crisis."  When an individual's vibration heightens, the toxins stored in the body are released into the blood stream, filtered by the kidneys and liver, and removed from the system.  As a result, an individual may feel weak, or experience a stomach ache, or a headache.  More often than not, practitioners recommend that the client experiencing these minor side effects drink more water, get more rest, and eat lighter meals.  A huge part of the Reiki treatment 
 is cleansing the body.
Can Reiki help groups of people during global crises?
One of the unique benefits of Reiki is that it is able encourage groups of people to do positive things even during challenging global situations.  It is able to reduce the suffering of people across the globe.
How can an individual find a Reiki teacher who is right for him or her?
More often than not, Reiki Masters, practitioners, or teachers post advertisements in magazines, health food stores, book stores, and other places.  When an individual finds a Reiki teacher, it is advisable to ask important questions to help in determining whether the said teacher is a good choice.  
Some of the common questions to ask Reiki Masters, practitioners, or teachers include: how long have they been working with Reiki; what training have they undergone; how do they use Reiki personally; what is their lineage; how often do they teaches Reiki; what is covered in their classes; what qualifications are required in their Reiki training; how many hours of class time do they include; how much time is hands-on practice and instructional; what are their fees; does the class include a manual and certificate; and are they open to supporting students to become successful Reiki teachers or practitioners among others.
An individual should be aware of his or her feelings about the answers to his or her questions.  A Reiki Master should be able to respond in a supportive, loving, and empowering manner.  The individual should listen to his or her heart as the Reiki Master answers the questions.
How much is cost for each Reiki treatment?
A Reiki treatment generally costs around $25 to $100.  The rate depends on the area as well as the country.  On the other hand, some practitioners offer Reiki treatments for a donation or even free of charge.
Can an individual make Reiki a source of income?
If an individual puts his or her heart into Reiki, he or she can develop a Reiki practice while conducting classes.  This is a fulfilling way that result in regular income.
Can an individual become "licensed" to practice and teach Reiki?
As of now, there are no licensing programs that any government provides to become a "licensed" Reiki practitioner.  However, there are some Reiki centers that offer licensing programs for Reiki teachers.
Are Reiki treatments covered by insurance?
Some insurance companies cover Reiki treatments although most of them are just starting to recognize Reiki.







Conclusio
 n
Reiki healing allows you to connect with the energies of the Universe and use it in a way that encourages the body to heal itself. It can be used to treat aches and pains, overcome allergies and headaches, and even heal chronic or painful diseases. The results depend heavily on your abilities and your mindset, as it is important to be receptive to the Reiki energies for them to result.
Often, the emotional and physical health problems that we struggle with stem from blocked energy channels in the body. Energy channels can be blocked after certain life circumstances or from being neglected. As you learn to encourage the flow of Universal energy through your body, you can promote overall health and wellness. You can stop at learning to heal yourself or you can continue our practice to strengthen your abilities and possibly heal others.
Hopefully, this book has been able to help provide the foundation for Reiki knowledge that you can build upon later. For the time being, however, you should know what you need to put your Reiki skills to work. The only thing left to do is practice! Your abilities will strengthen with time and as you become more aware of the way that the energies of the universe and your body affect you.
Best of luck!









KUNDALINI AWAKENING


Mind Power Through Chakra Meditation, and Yoga.
Empath healing for Beginners, Psychic Abilities, Intuition, Astral Travel, Mindfulness, Overcome Insomnia, Anxiety & Depression

By
Spiritual Awakening Academy









Introductio
 n

Kundalini awakening journeys are life-changing. Once you start, you will never look at life the same. Even if you were to begin the awakening process and then restrict it and let your Kundalini go dormant again, you could expect to be forever changed. The energy is that
 powerful. Fortunately for you, almost no one looks back after their awakening. The energy is pure, addicting, empowering, and so full of love and joy that it truly is unlike anything you have ever experienced before. 
The best way to get the most out of this book is to ensure that you read it cover to cover first, then use it as a reference guide as needed. "Kundalini Awakening
 " is written with the intention of guiding you through all of the stages of awakening and supporting you in beginning your own daily Kundalini practice that you can use for life. This book is structured in a way that supports you in having all of the knowledge you need to begin your awakening. It is important that you start with the knowledge section first, as this will enable you to understand exactly what it is that you are awakening and what you can expect from the process. Then, you can proceed to move into the actual practices that contribute to the awakening. 
As you go through your Kundalini journey, you may find times where you need more support in your awakening. Natural stages in your cycle may lead to you feeling particularly low on energy, closed, restricted, or otherwise struggling to maintain a healthy, balanced flow. During those times, referring back to this guide can support you in getting back to the basics and clearing out your channels so that you can resume your balanced Kundalini flow. 
Realize that this journey is different for everyone. While the foundations are the same and there are many synchronicities between those who are awakening, you will likely become aware of the fact that some of the information you read or pick up along the way seems irrelevant to you. This is natural. Stay in a state of flow and allow yourself to continue moving through. As you will learn in this book, allowing and accepting are the easiest ways to keep 
 yourself in a state of Kundalini flow. 







Chapter 1: Kundalini Basic
 s
The Kundalini, also known as goddess power
 or serpent power
 , is said to possess immense power. It is located at the base of the spine. The practice of awakening the Kundalini is very much known in India, but it is also being practiced in different parts of the world. The Kundalini is said to look like a coiled serpent at the base of the spine. Once awakened, it becomes a gateway or a key to great psychic powers, and even enlightenment.
Why is it important to learn/practice Kundalini?
It is important to learn and practice Kundalini awakening because it can take you to a higher spiritual level. It is not uncommon for people to suddenly be stuck in a plateau in their spiritual life. It is a state where there seems to be no more progress or development. During this stage, awakening the Kundalini is often one of the best things to do. 
Of course, you do not need to be in a spiritual plateau before you learn and practice to awaken the Kundalini. In fact, this is something that you can do at any time. If you want to go deeper into spirituality, if you want to be able to harness psychic powers, then this is the one for you. However, it should be noted that acquiring psychic powers is not the primary goal of Kundalini awakening. The acquisition of such powers is merely incidental to the process of Kundalini awakening.
The differences between Kundalini and Prana
Some people confuse Kundalini and prana with each other. It should be noted that these two terms are related to each other, but they are not the same. Prana is the pervading energy that exists inside you and all around you. When the Kundalini is awakened, a strong rush of prana surges through the body. Take note that Kundalini and prana 
 are different from each other. 
However, in some sense, it can be said that Kundalini is also prana. This is because of the belief that literally everything is made of prana. However, technically speaking, they are not the same, just as a chakra is different from Prana.
The Kundalini is often awakened by drawing more prana into the location where the Kundalini resides, which is at the base of the spine. Clearly, they are not the same.
 
The relationship between Kundalini and Chi
Chi is another term for prana. Prana is referred to by different terms depending on the culture or location. In China, prana is called as chi. In Greece, it is referred to as pneuma. In ancient Polynesia, prana was called mana. The term prana is a term that is used in India. Still, all these terms refer to the same energy.
The health benefits of Kundalini
The awakening of the Kundalini has been linked to various health benefits. It promotes good health at many levels. It regulates and corrects blood pressure; it is also an effective stress reliever; it can fight and even cure diabetes and other diseases, as well as a host of many other physical benefits. This also involves relief from stomach and liver problems, even issues with kidney stones and gallstones. There are even those who claim that awakening the Kundalini can cure serious diseases like cancer. Indeed, when you experience the power that surges through your body upon awakening of the Kundalini, you will know that indeed, everything is possible. Having clarity of thought is a very common benefit of awakening the Kundalini, as well as increased focus, attention, and mental power.
It is also worth noting that many of these benefits can be enjoyed even without fully awakening your Kundalini. The different practices themselves, as you will learn from this book, can give you tons of health benefits. Of course, if you want to experience the benefits to their fullest potential, then you need to actually awaken your Kundalini.
Different Kundalini exercises and meditations
It should be noted that there is no single exercise or meditation technique that will guarantee the awakening of the Kundalini. The accumulative spiritual practices and spiritual maturity are needed for this to happen. All the practices in this book will help you awaken your Kundalini. However, be reminded that gaining knowledge is not enough. You also need to put that knowledge into actual and continuous practice.
You may wonder why this book is full of mental and meditative techniques. The reason is that the awakening the Kundalini is more of a mental effort and practice. You should expect to engage in long hours of meditation. However, there are also physical exercises that can help you awaken the Kundalini. After all, physical exercises of any kind are a natural way of cleansing the body of negative energies. Depending on your physical fitness, you may engage in a physical activity or exercise of your choice. For starters, you might want to engage in some walking exercises. If you are a feeling fit and healthy, then you can go for a jog or a good run. Needless to say, exercising is also good for the physical body.
The best way to awaken the Kundalini is by doing meditation. As you read this book, you will learn different meditation techniques. Some of these meditation techniques will directly empower and engage your Kundalini, while others may do so indirectly. Still, it is worth noting that all meditation practices help in awakening the Kundalini. Hence, you can rest for sure that no effort will ever be wasted.
The effects of Kundalini activation on the body, emotions, and the mind
As to the emotions, it will make you feel more centered and calm. In fact, even before you reach the stage of awakening, you will already enjoy its positive effects on the emotional level. You will feel less stressed, and you will be more in control of yourself and your emotions. 
With regard to the mind, you will have more mental clarity. You will be able to think and analyze things more clearly. It will give you such clarity that you have never experienced in your life. In fact, it is with such mental clarity that is tantamount to having complete peace of mind.
How Kundalini feels
If your Kundalini is still dormant, then you might not feel it at all. However, the more that you work on your Kundalini, the more that you can feel it, especially when you do the meditation techniques that directly engage the Kundalini. At the moment of the awakening of the Kundalini, you can expect for a powerful rush of energy through your body. 
This happens as the energy is released and the serpentine power shoots up through the other chakras. The feeling is often reported to be warm as energy is usually warm. It is also a pleasurable release. Some even say that it is more pleasurable than having an orgasm. It is, you can say, some form of spiritual bliss. 
How to clear the blockages that prevent Kundalini from rising smoothly
Blockages can prevent the awakening and rising of the Kundalini. In 
 order to avoid this from happening, you need to ensure that there is a free flow of energy through the energy channels meridians. You should also ensure that your chakras are cleansed and aligned.
However, what causes these blockages? There are many causes of blockages. A common cause of this is having too much stress. In the modern world, being stressed has become very common; and this is actually a sad thing, as it means that many people do not enjoy a free flow of energy. If you want to activate your Kundalini, then you need to be sure to manage your stress levels effectively. It should be noted that stress itself is not bad; it is when you fail to manage it properly that it becomes bad for you. There are many other causes that can impede the free flow of energy, such as having bad experiences, emotional breakdown, psychic attacks, and others. When treating blockages, it is important to note the reason or the main cause of the problem. A common mistake is to treat a blockage without attending to what causes it in the first place. Therefore, if a blockage is due to your stress at work, then you need to make some adjustments at work. You cannot just treat the effect or the result without going after the source.
Therefore, removing of any blockages or healing should be done on two levels, physical and spiritual. On the physical level, you may have to make some lifestyle changes.
Chapter 2: The Basics of Meditatio
 n
Meditation is strongly related to mystical experiences and Kundalini syndromes. According to a study, it is more effective than yoga and prayer in creating Kundalini syndromes. It is possible that this is because meditation involves an inner focus, which is not always involved in yoga or prayer. After all, meditation goes beyond a particular religious belief or practice, and it is something that is shared by varying cultures throughout history.
Because regular meditators experience Kundalini more often, it may mean that it is caused by the meditations or because dedicated meditators are predisposed for Kundalini experiences. No matter 
 what the case may be, you will benefit if you regularly meditate. Not only will you train your mind to make it more capable of directing and withstanding energy, you will also receive perks like improved moods, self-control and overall health. 
Mystical traditions assert that meditating upon a deity, a guru, a holy man/woman or a sacred concept will make you acquire their energetic qualities. This can mean gazing at a picture of them, chanting their name or mantra, imagining them, or emotionally connecting to them. There are certain gurus who are said to convey Shaktipat to their disciples by letting them connect to their energy via meditation. 
Transcendental Meditation may activate the Kundalini - some of those who practice TM have experienced the Kundalini syndrome. This involves meditation with a mantra that may be given by the guru. An often-used mantra is "ong namo guru dev namo" which is translated to "I bow to the divine within." This connects your energy to a line of enlightened masters, ensuring that the wisdom you receive is reliable and the energy controlled.  
Meditation and Multiple Practices 
Based on research on meditators and Kundalini experiencers, meditation and multiple transpersonal practices increase the chances of Kundalini awakening.   
It was discovered that the total amount of practice is more important than the frequency, pattern, and social conditions of practicing. This means that it's good if you meditate a lot of times so the effect will accumulate. 
Prayer
Prayer leads to mystical experiences when there are positive emotions like adoration and gratitude. When prayer involves requests or confession of sins, or if it is done out of obligation, mystical experiences occur less frequently.  When praying, include in your intention that you want to be closer to God or to your idea of the Divine. You may ask that this happen specifically via Kundalini 
 awakening, but sometimes it may occur in another form. Catholics or Christians may experience the descent of the Holy Spirit - it is similar to the Kundalini but in a form that their belief systems are already predisposed to accept. 
Yoga
There are many kinds of yoga; some deal specifically with Kundalini activation. Regardless of whether yoga is done for Kundalini or not, Kundalini will more likely be awakened if yoga is practiced contemplatively. In contrast, if yoga is done mechanically and treated only as a means to attain fitness, Kundalini will remain dormant. 
Yoga generally deals with physical exercises (asanas and mudras), chanting (mantras), breath control (pranayama), meditation, concentration, and visualization.  
Some forms of yoga that deal with Kundalini are the following: 

Kundalini yoga/Laya yoga: Kundalini yoga incorporates Hatha yoga, Kriya yoga, visualization and meditation.  
Hatha yoga: There are particular Hatha yoga practices that are said to raise Kundalini such as mula bandha, jalandhara bandha, kechari mudra, kumbhaka, and mula bandha. 
Kriya yoga: Kriya yoga involves self-study, self-discipline, and devotions.  
Sahaja yoga: Sahaja yoga teaches Kundalini activation methods to enable a person to achieve self-realization. 

Yoga is considered as a structured path. These Kundalini-based Yoga forms have specific techniques for activating, maintaining, and making use of Kundalini for different purposes. You can learn Yoga on your own but to be sure you carry out the techniques properly, it's best to attend a class. 
Yoga improves the interconnections between the mind and body, making you more capable of directing subtle energies at will. It will make you aware of your limitations so you can surpass them. Although the postures and movements may be difficult, they will make you familiar with how your physical, mental, and energy 
 bodies work, and eventually, you will learn how to control them so they serve you better. 
Kriya Yoga
Kriya Yoga is one form of yoga that is said to be a safer alternative to forcing the Kundalini upwards. According to Paramhansa Yogananda - a yoga master from India that brought Kundalini knowledge to the West - Kriya Yoga is a technique that combines the right attitude and purity of heart with life force stimulation so that problems are avoided. 
Kriyas are "activities" and can be linked to the spontaneous movements that tend to occur upon the awakening of the Shakti. The kriyas help remove the blocks that stand in the way of the kundalini as it traverses the central channel and spine. They are triggered by the energy's interaction with the blockages. 
There is a belief that the higher chakras are positive magnets that pull the consciousness upwards towards the divine, while the chakra at the spine's base pulls it downwards towards ignorance, selfishness, and materialism. In this belief system, the Kundalini is the thrust of consciousness that is related to matter, and it causes the restlessness of the mind during meditation. 
The goal of guiding the Kundalini upwards is to pull it away from its negative position and unite it with the positive magnet at the top of the head. The problem is, many practices just aim to shake this energy loose. However, this energy is quite dangerous, and overstimulating it causes extreme heat that may damage the person's nervous system and cause psychological disturbances. 
Kriya Yoga is safer and easier than other practices, and it can also pave the way towards spiritual enlightenment. Because it's a holistic discipline, it can improve your physical and psychological well-being. Basically, it involves the cleansing of the energy channels so that energies can move more freely in the body. 
These are some of the things under Kriya Yoga that can help with awakening the energy: 

Have love for the divine. This means going beyond simply 
 practicing religious rituals just because you are taught to do them, but having a genuine desire to commune and unite with your God. 
See everything and everyone as manifestations of the Divine. The truth is, the Universe is a part of the one who created it, so you must have respect for creation as well. 
Have a positive attitude. Although life will inevitably make you feel negative at times, do your best not to get stuck in negativity. Activating Kundalini means you have to keep your energy channels clear and your frequency high. 
Do things that cause spiritual expansion. Activities that cause upliftment to yourself and others have benefits to your spiritual condition. This could be anything such as learning a productive skill, being generous to others, helping out with a cause, etc. 
Acknowledge your higher nature. All people have lower and higher natures but not all of them live as spiritual beings. The more that you are conscious of your spiritual aspect, the better your chances are of progressing spiritually. 
Develop greater awareness. Prevent yourself from going deeper into unconsciousness by indulging in things that dull your mind. Be more mindful. Participate in meaningful and productive endeavors. Try not to do things that you know are nonsensical or detrimental to you or others. 
Chanting with a devotional attitude may raise your Kundalini. Take note that inciting mantras half-heartedly may be useless. 
Be energetic. Find things to do that give you energy. Dedicate yourself to things you are passionate about. These have effects to your subtle energies as well. 
Interestingly, waking the stored Kundalini energy can be done not only by stirring it and forcing it to shoot up from below, but it can also be coaxed upward by drawing it from above. To do this, you must make your higher chakras magnetic. 
Meditating upon saints, mystics, deities, and other spiritual 
 personas will help you with this. By calling upon them, they may help you awaken your spirituality. 

Basically, the things mentioned above can help you be in touch with your spiritual nature whether you practice Kriya yoga or not. If you want to follow the path of Kriya yoga, here's a simplified version of how to do it: 
Procedure
Develop and keep a good posture. Be mindful that your spine is straight for as often as you can. This will be beneficial not only to your physical health and energy level, it may also assist your Kundalini in its ascent. 
Be physically active. Kriya Yoga is all about balance, so you have to balance meditation with physical exercise. Moving your body will help with removing unclean and used energy. Aerobic exercises will invigorate you and directly help with moving the Kundalini, but you may also do mild exercises such as simple stretches, head rolls, and the like. 
Sit on a chair with your feet flat, or on the floor in the crossed leg or lotus position. Keep your spine straight and your head parallel to the ground. Close your eyes and remove all distractions and preoccupations from your mind. 
Focus entirely on your breath. The breath is prana, so you must be sensitive to your respirations in order to work with subtle energy. Using your mind, you will direct it to bring up the Kundalini upwards through the seven chakras that line your spine.  
Feel your breath stirring in the base of your spine. You may feel it becoming warmer when you do so. This is the energy becoming activated. Just accept it and bring it upwards with each breath. Be sensitive to it. Notice what it's doing. Do not force it to move but gently coax it. It will untangle coils and burn impediments on its own. 
Continue bringing your breath up until you feel energy running along your spine. When you feel that the energy has reached the topmost chakra, bring your breath down one chakra at a time until you reach the heart. 
Inhale from the bottom of your spine again to bring up the energy to the crown. As you exhale, bring the energy down and let it go out of your heart. This is a more balanced form of awakening; try this if you're overwhelmed by raising Kundalini from the bottom up. 
Purification
Hindu tradition requires the cleansing and strengthening of the body to prepare it for the passage of Kundalini. Fasting is sometimes prescribed - this may mean not eating for a certain number of days or not eating particular kinds of food like red meat. Activities that entertain the senses are likewise prohibited to refresh the mind and make it concentrate on spirituality. 
Traditionally, kundalini awakening is done in a learning setting. There are still gurus who go handpick worthy students to impart teachings that they don't share to anybody else. Nowadays, anyone who wants to learn may go to a guru or join a workshop. Kundalini Spiritual Awakening 
Kundalini awakenings happen differently for everyone. For some, they are slow and come in persistently but over time. For others, it can be extremely quick, almost like an explosion of energy in the gut area. Either way, Kundalini awakenings can be quite intense for anyone who experiences them.  
Here are some of the symptoms you can expect to experience during your awakening.  
Remember, not everyone will experience all of the same symptoms. Furthermore, you may experience some that have not been listed here. That is okay, too. The goal is to be one with the process and welcome anything that comes your way.  

Everything Seems to Fall Apart
 

One of the first things many people experience in the face of their awakening is feelings of nervousness. As you awaken, it may feel like everything is falling apart. This is because the world as you have 
 come to know it is being perceived through the eyes of someone who has Kundalini that is still dormant. As a result, you may feel like everything as you know it falls away.  
Many people who awaken will experience massive life changes as a result of this falling apart. Several of the aspects of their lives that are not aligned with their awakened energies will begin to drift away as they make room for new, aligned experiences in their lives. Although in the long run, this is generally all for the best, in the midst of everything falling apart you can feel intense bouts of chaos and stress. Sometimes, people will even block their awakening to lessen the chaos and prevent the stress from increasing.  
Everything that has been used as a crutch to support your unhealed self will begin to render themselves as useless as you realize that they are no longer supporting you. This can, of course, be scary. Many call this "leaving their comfort zone" because they are venturing beyond the system they have carefully built around themselves to bring some peace and comfort into their lives. However, they will virtually always end up finding a more pure and true sense of comfort later in their lives when they enter a later phase of their awakening.  

Physical Symptoms 
 

Many individuals that undergo awakening experience physical symptoms as a part of the process. These symptoms are generally very random and are not linked to any health issues carried by the individual. Of course, if you do experience any ongoing physical symptoms that are particularly alarming, you should always contact your physician to rule out anything serious. However, realize that if nothing comes back and you remain "undiagnosed," it is likely that these are symptoms of your awakening.  
Some of the physical symptoms people experience include anything from shaking to visual disturbances. Some will also struggle to relax as a result of the major rushes of energy that course through their bodies. Others still may even experience near-death experiences that either contributes to the awakening or are a result of the 
 awakening. Remember, whatever symptoms you experience, if you are at all concerned you should certainly contact a physician. Even though they may be spiritual awakening symptoms, it is always important to take proper precautionary methods and look after your physical body.   
The reason why many people will experience physical symptoms is that their physical body is simply unable to handle such a rush of energy. As the awakening continues, these symptoms should subside. The body will grow more accustomed to the incoming energies and will likely find it significantly easier to handle. Feeling physical symptoms may encourage you to deny your awakening, but as long as you are truly healthy, enduring them can lead to powerful results. If you are particularly concerned, you can always work alongside a Kundalini master to receive support and guidance in how to manage these symptoms and potentially slow them down to make them more manageable as you endure your awakening. In general, your physical, emotional, and energetic symptoms should last only about 20 minutes at a time.  

Emotional Symptoms 
 

Emotional symptoms are extremely common in Kundalini awakenings. In fact, they are felt by virtually everyone who experiences their awakening. Emotional symptoms vary, but early on the most common symptoms include ones like anxiety, despair, and depression. The emotions can also range in the opposite direction, bringing intense feelings of elation, joy, and an overwhelming sense of peace to the individual.  
These emotional fluctuations are directly the result of the changing energy within your body. At first, they may be intense and overwhelming. You may feel as though you are encountering and enduring many mood swings, which could make it challenging to deal with. The best thing that you can do is allow yourself to embody the emotions and feel through them. Refrain from blocking them or resisting them, as this can result in you directly resisting your awakening.  

Energetic Symptoms 
 

The primary energetic symptoms experiences by individuals experiencing a Kundalini awakening are massive influxes of energies at seemingly random times. These energies can become quite powerful, resulting in people randomly feeling extremely energized and even restless. These energy symptoms are inevitable, as spiritual awakenings do exist in the non-physical life-force energy of Kundalini. You may experience many symptoms as a result. Virtually all emotional and physical symptoms stem from the energetic symptoms of your awakening. 
One interesting aspect of energetic symptoms is that many will go unnoticed. Because these are less tangible than physical and emotional symptoms, many things will actually go on in the background that will contribute to your overall shift. The best thing you can do to manage energetic symptoms is to find peace, allow them to flow, and work through anything that they bring your way either physically or energetically. The more you allow them to move through, the better it will become for you.  

Importance of breathing in meditation and yoga
 

Take a full breath, growing your midsection. Delay. Breathe out gradually to the count of five. Do this multiple times. 
Congrats. You've recently calmed your nervous system.
Controlled breathing, similar to what you basically practiced, has been seen to lessen stress, increase readiness and lift your spirits. For quite a long time, yogis have used breath control, or pranayama, to increase focus and improve imperativeness. Buddha supported breath-meditation as an approach to arrive at enlightenment.
Science is merely starting to give proof that the advantages of this ancient practice are genuine. Studies have found, for instance, that breathing practices can help lessen side effects related to tension, a sleeping disorder, post-traumatic stress issues, depression and a lack of ability to concentrate consistently scatter.
Intelligent Breathing
If you have the opportunity to learn just a single system, this is the 
 one to try. In sound breathing, the objective is to inhale at a pace of five breaths for each minute, which by and large converts into breathing in and breathing out to the count of six. If you have never worked on breathing activities, you may need to work up to this training gradually, beginning with breathing in and breathing out to the count of three and making your way up to six.

Sitting up straight or resting, place your hands on your tummy. 
Gradually breathe in, extending your tummy, to the count of five. 
Rest.  
Gradually inhale out to the count of six. 
Make your way up to doing this 10 to 20 minutes every day.  

Stress Relief
At the point when your brain is busy, or you are stressed, try Rock and Roll breathing, which has the additional advantage of reinforcing your centre.

Sit up straight on the floor or on the edge of a seat. 
Place your hands on your gut.
As you breathe in, lean forward and extend your gut. 
As you breathe out, press the breath out and twist forward while inclining in reverse; breathe out until you're empty of breath.
Repeat several times. 

Empowering HA Breath
When the midafternoon droop hits, stand up and do some quick breathwork to awaken your soul and body.

Stand up tall, elbows bowed, palms pointing up. 
As you breathe in, move your elbows back behind you, palms still pointed up. 
At that point breathe out rapidly, pushing your palms forward 
 and turning them downward, while at the same time saying "Ha" so anyone can hear. 
Repeat rapidly 10 or more times. 








Chapter 3: The Energy of Pran
 a
Prana is a Sanskrit word that deciphers as "imperative life power." Understanding what prana is and how it functions resembles being given a key that can open new improved degrees of wellbeing and prosperity—on the all around. 
Prana is the widespread ocean of vitality that imbues and vitalizes all issue. This ocean of vitality combines into sub-nuclear particles and molecules, which become the essential structure squares of all issue showing the physical world. Along these lines, each particle, atom, and cell is an expansion of prana, similarly as waves are augmentations of the ocean that lies underneath them. 
The five fundamental resources of our tendency—the brain, breath (prana), discourse, hearing, and sight—were contending about which was the most significant. To determine the question they chose that each would leave the body thus to see whose nonappearance was missed most. First discourse left, yet the body kept on thriving however it was quiet. Next the eye left, yet the body thrived however visually impaired. At that point the ear left, yet the body flourished however hard of hearing. At last the mind left, yet still the body lived on, however it was presently oblivious. Be that as it may, the minute the prana began to leave, the body started to bite the dust. Different resources were quickly losing their life-power, so they all raced to prana, conceded its amazingness, and implored it to remain. 
This is an old Vedic story, marginally various renditions of which are found in different Upanishads. The contention in the first place speaks to the common human condition where our resources are not incorporated, however rival each other for control of our consideration. When prana leaves, it turns out to be certain that prana offers vitality to every one of our resources, without which none of them can work. Along these lines the lesson of this story is that to control these resources, one must control the prana. 
To achieve positive changes in body and mind we should comprehend the vitality through which they work. This power is called prana in Sanskrit, signifying "essential vitality," once in a while deciphered as "breath" or "fundamental power," however it is really something more. The various structures through which prana communicates are only from time to time inspected inside and out in Western writing on yoga, and therefore the study of prana, which is tremendous and significant, is once in a while comprehended. 
Prana has numerous degrees of significance, from the physical breath to the vitality of awareness itself. Prana isn't just the essential life-constrain, it is the first inventive power. It is the ace type of all vitality working at each degree of our being. Without a doubt the whole universe is a sign of prana. Indeed, even kundalini shakti, the snake control or inward vitality which changes our cognizance, creates from stirred prana. 
On a vast level there are two parts of prana. The first is unmanifest, the vitality of unadulterated cognizance, which rises above all creation. The second, or show prana, is simply the power of creation.
Nature itself is made out of three gunas, or characteristics: sattva, or agreement, which offers ascend to the brain; rajas, or development, which offers ascend to prana; and tamas, or idleness, which offers ascend to the physical body. Nature is a functioning, or rajasic, vitality. Reacting to the draw of the higher Self, or unadulterated cognizance, this vitality progresses toward becoming sattvic. By the inactivity of numbness this equivalent vitality progresses toward becoming tamasic. 
Comparative with our physical presence, prana or crucial vitality is an alteration of the air component, getting principally from the oxygen we relax. On an unobtrusive level, the air component relates to the feeling of touch; through touch we feel invigorated and can transmit our life-power to other people. 
Prana is additionally the power that streams in every living structure and performs crucial capacities. Paramhansa Yogananda called this part of prana "life-power." He further clarified that life-power has a characteristic insight empowering it to do the life-continuing procedures. 
To offer lucidity to this picture, he even begat the expression "lifetrons." We have an inconspicuous or astral body made up of prana that underlies the physical body. Oriental recuperating methods, for example, Ayurveda and needle therapy, work to fit and fortify the progression of life-power, calling it differently prana, chi, or ki. At the point when the life-power streams appropriately, the outcome will be a characteristic condition of wellbeing and imperativeness. 
Prana is additionally used to allude to the breath. At the point when we take a physical breath, there is a relating development of prana in the unpretentious or astral spine. Prana streams up in the inconspicuous spine related to the inward breath, and down with the exhalation. 
This connection among breath and the progression of prana is integral to a significant number of the strategies of contemplation. By controlling the breath, which is effectively felt, we can impact the progression of prana, which is considerably more inconspicuous and hard to feel. 

The Koshas 
 

The person comprises of five koshas or "sheaths": 
1.Annamaya kosha ("sheath made of nourishment"). This is the physical body, made out of the five components we ingest (earth, water, air, fire, ether). 
2.Pranamaya kosha ("sheath made of breath"). This is the 
 fundamental body, made out of five parts of prana called vayus. 
3.Manomaya kosha ("sheath of impressions"). This is the external, or lower level, of psyche, loaded up with the five sorts of tactile impressions. 
4.Vijnanamaya kosha ("sheath of thoughts"). This is knowledge itself, coordinated mental action. 
5.Anandamaya kosha ("sheath of encounters"). This is the more profound personality, containing the memory, subliminal personality, and superconscious mind. 
The pranamaya kosha is an amazing circle energies. This sheath intercedes between the physical body on one side and the three sheaths of the psyche (external personality, knowledge, and internal personality) on the other. It likewise intercedes between the five gross components and the five tangible impressions. 
Pranayama (prana = vitality + yama = control) is a kind of contemplation method that includes different methods for controlling the breathing, with the objective being to raise one's prana (additionally called Kundalini for this situation) up the profound spine to the otherworldly eye or 6th chakra, which carries one to illumination. Kriya Yoga is one such procedure, made surely understood by Paramhamsa Yogananda in Autobiography of a Yogi.
How Pranayama Works
On either side of the spine there is a fiery nerve channel, or nadi : ida on the left and pingala on the right. 
The prana or vitality ventures upward through the ida nadi. With this upward development, the breath is consequently drawn into the 
 lungs. Accordingly, the psyche is attracted outward to the universe of the faculties. 
The vitality at that point voyages downwards through the pingala nadi. At the point when the vitality is going down, it is called apana instead of prana. This descending development is joined by physical exhalation, and connotes a dismissal of outer conditions. 
One indication of this cycle is the relationship of inward breath with fervor and bliss, and exhalation with annihilation and despondency. Joy and misery should consistently pursue each other when the reason for each is outer conditions, which are continually evolving. 
Be that as it may, through pranayama procedures an individual can rather divert the vitality through the profound spine in the middle of the ida and pingala, called the sushumna. At the point when the degree of vitality in the sushumna arrives at the highest point of the spine and goes into the profound eye, or 6th chakra, one ends up illuminated. 
The vast majority of us are commanded by the fundamental body and its profound situated urges, which are essential with the goal for us to stay alive. The essential body is the home of the subliminal self image, which harbors our different feelings of trepidation, wants, and connections. A large portion of us consume our time on earth looking for happiness through this kosha as tactile delight and procuring material articles. 
Individuals with a solid imperative body can intrigue their character on the world and frequently become conspicuous throughout everyday life. Those with a feeble fundamental body don't have the vitality to achieve a lot, and typically stay in subordinate positions. For the most part individuals with solid yet self absorbed essential natures run the world. However, this nature can be perhaps the best impediment on the profound way since it makes it hard for the 
 individual to give up to any higher power or to scrutinize their own craving based driving forces. 
This makes a few people think profound life expects us to stifle our prana, yet a solid pranamaya kosha is very unique in relation to prideful or want arranged essentialness. It gets its quality not from individual power however from our give up to the vitality of the awesome. Without a solid spiritualized pranamaya kosha, we come up short on the vitality to do our practices in an extraordinary and continued way. 
In Hindu folklore this higher prana is symbolized by the monkey god Hanuman, child of the breeze, whose story is told in the antiquated Indian exemplary the Ramayana. Hanuman gave up to the heavenly as the celestial manifestations Rama and his better half, Sita, and he along these lines picked up the capacity to progress toward becoming as huge or as little as he wished, to conquer all adversaries and deterrents, and to achieve the wonderful. Such a profoundly coordinated crucial nature has vitality, interest, and eagerness, alongside the capacity to control the faculties and indispensable urges—all subordinate to a higher will and goal. 

The Five Pranas in Yoga
 

The pranamaya kosha is made out of the five pranas, likewise called vayus or "powers of the air." These five pranas are sorted by development and bearing. This is a significant point in Ayurvedic drug just as in yogic practices. 
Prana Vayu
•Prana vayu actually signifies "forward-moving air," since it moves internal and administers a wide range of gathering into the body, from eating, drinking, and breathing in, to the gathering of tangible impressions and mental encounters. It is propulsive in nature, 
 getting things under way and directing them, and it gives the fundamental vitality that drives us throughout everyday life. 
Apana Vayu
•Apana vayu, "the air that moves away," moves descending and outward, overseeing all types of end and propagation (which additionally has a descending development). It administers the end of stool and pee, the ousting of semen, menstrual liquid, and the embryo, and the end of carbon dioxide through the breath. On a more profound level, it controls the end of negative tactile, passionate, and mental encounters. It is the premise of our insusceptible capacity. 
Udana Vayu
•Udana vayu, "the upward-moving air," goes up and achieves subjective or transformative developments of the life-vitality. It administers the development of the body and the capacity to remain, just as discourse, exertion, excitement, and will. It is our principle positive vitality, helping us to build up our various sheaths and to develop in cognizance. 
Samana Vayu
•Samana vayu, "adjusting air," moves from the fringe to the middle, through a beating and perceiving activity. It helps absorption on all levels, working in the gastrointestinal tract to process nourishment, in the lungs to process air or assimilate oxygen, and in the brain to process understanding—tactile, passionate, and mental. 
Vyana Vayu
•Vyana vayu, "outward-moving air," moves from the middle to the fringe, overseeing dissemination on all levels. It moves nourishment, water, and oxygen all through the body, and keeps our feelings and contemplations circling in the brain, conferring energy and giving quality. 
The five pranas can likewise be found as far as their body area. Prana vayu oversees the development of vitality starting from the head to the navel, which is the pranic focus of the physical body. Apana vayu oversees the development of vitality starting from the navel to the root chakra at the base of the spine. Samana vayu oversees the development of vitality from the whole body back to the navel. Vyana vayu administers the development of vitality out from the navel all through the whole body. Udana vayu oversees the development of vitality from the navel up to the head 
In a nutshell, prana vayu administers the admission of substances, samana oversees their processing, and vyana oversees the dissemination of supplements. Udana administers the arrival of positive vitality, and apana oversees the end of waste materials. This is a lot of like the working of a proficient machine. Prana acquires the fuel, samana changes over this fuel to vitality, and vyana courses the vitality to different worksites. Apana discards the waste items delivered by the transformation procedure. Udana deals with the vitality along these lines made, empowering the machine to work viably. 
The way to wellbeing is to keep our pranas working in congruity. At the point when one prana winds up imbalanced, the others will in general lose their balance too, in light of the fact that they are altogether connected. For the most part prana and udana balance apana, as the powers of empowerment balance those of disposal. Essentially vyana and samana organize with one another regarding development and constriction. 
How Prana Creates the Physical Body
Without prana the physical body is close to a piece of earth. Prana shapes this thick mass into different appendages and organs by making different unpretentious nerve channels, or nadis, through which it can work and stimulate gross issue, molding it into different tissues and organs. 
Prana vayu makes the openings and diverts in the head and mind down to the heart. There are seven openings in the head: the two eyes, two ears, two nostrils, and mouth. Udana vayu helps prana in making the openings in the upper piece of the body, especially the 
 mouth and vocal organs, in light of the fact that the mouth is the principle opening for the head as well as for the whole body. Indeed, the physical body is, one might say, an expansion of the mouth, which is simply the primary organ of eating and articulation. 
Prana and the Mind
Mental vitality is gotten from nourishment, breath, and the impressions we take in from the outside world. Prana administers the admission of tactile impressions, samana oversees their psychological processing, and vyana administers mental dissemination. Apana rules the disposal of poisonous thoughts and negative feelings. Udana gives positive mental vitality, quality, and excitement. 
On a mental level, prana oversees our receptivity to positive wellsprings of sustenance, feeling, and learning through the brain and faculties. At the point when unsettled it causes unfortunate wants and unquenchable yearnings, and we become confused, misled, and by and large out of equalization. 
Apana oversees our capacity to dispense with negative contemplations and feelings. At the point when unhinged it causes despondency, and we get stopped up with undigested experience that overloads us throughout everyday life, making us dreadful, smothered, and powerless. 
Samana gives us sustenance, satisfaction, and a fair personality. At the point when disturbed it realizes connection and covetousness. We stick to things and become contracted, stale, and possessive in our conduct. 
Vyana gives free development and autonomy of psyche. At the point when unsettled it can cause detachment, disdain, and distance. We become incapable to join with others or to stay associated with what we are doing. 
Udana gives us bliss and eagerness and stirs our higher profound and innovative possibilities. At the point when disturbed it can cause 
 pride and self-importance, and we become ungrounded, attempting to go excessively high and putting some distance between our foundations. 
Profound Aspects of the Pranas
The pranas have numerous uncommon capacities in yogic practices. On an otherworldly level, samana oversees the space inside the heart wherein the genuine Self abides as a fire with seven blazes. Samana manages our internal fire, which must consume equitably. Without the harmony and equalization samana makes, we can't come back profoundly of our being or concentrate our brain. 
Vyana oversees the development of prana through the nadis, keeping them open, clear, clean, and even in their working. Apana shields us from negative astral impacts and fanciful encounters. Prana vayu gives us the best possible desire essential for profound improvement. 
Udana oversees our development in cognizance and conveys the psyche into the conditions of imagining and profound rest, and into the after-death domains. Udana additionally oversees development up the sushumna. Since the mind moves with udana vayu, it is commonly the most significant prana for profound development. 
As we practice yoga, the unobtrusive parts of these pranas start to stir, which may cause different unordinary developments of vitality in body and brain, including different unconstrained developments called kriyas. We may feel new scopes of vitality (unpretentious vyana); extraordinary harmony (unobtrusive samana); a feeling of delicacy, as though we are suspending (inconspicuous udana); profound groundedness and steadiness (unobtrusive apana); or just increased imperativeness and affectability (unobtrusive prana). 
Working with Prana
Legitimate sustenance increments prana on a physical level. Appropriate end likewise makes a difference. In Ayurvedic thought, the prana from nourishment is invested in the internal organ, especially in the upper 66% of this organ. Hence apana is the most 
 significant prana for physical wellbeing. 
The Vedas state that humans eat nourishment with apana, while the divine beings eat nourishment with prana. The humans are the physical tissues, continued by right nourishment. The immortals are the faculties that take in nourishment by means of prana itself as tactile impressions. To reinforce prana, practices, for example, customs and perceptions are significant, just as tangible treatments including shading, sounds, or fragrances, and contact with nature. 
The principle approach to work with prana is through pranayama, especially as yogic breathing activities. Yoga underlines refinement of both body and psyche as a way to Self-acknowledgment, and therefore it accentuates a veggie lover diet rich in prana—that is, nourishments brimming with the life-power—and a brain established in moral qualities, for example, honesty and peacefulness, and in otherworldly teaches. An unclean, lethal, or upset body and psyche can't understand the higher Self. The way to cleaning body and brain is prana, which connections the two. The principle strategy is refinement of the nadis through which prana streams. 
While all yogic breathing activities are useful in such manner, the most significant is nadi shodhana (interchange nostril breathing), which enables parity to right and left prana flows. As per the yogic framework, the body and every one of its channels have a privilege or left transcendence. The correct side is sun based in nature. It helps in such exercises as processing, work, and focus, and is pittic, or searing, in constitution. The left, or the lunar, nadi is kaphic, or water prevalent. It helps in such exercises as rest, rest, and unwinding. 
Ordinary exchange nostril breathing is the most significant strategy for keeping our pranas or energies in equalization, yet there is another technique—joining prana and apana. Apana vayu, which is lined up with the power of gravity, as a rule moves descending, coming about in malady and passing as well as in the descending development of awareness. Prana vayu, then again, will in general scatter upward through the brain and faculties, and is our pathway to the energies above. Yogic practices require bringing apana up and 
 cutting prana down so the two can join together; this helps balance all the pranas. In doing as such, the inward fire or kundalini winds up enkindled in the area of the navel. Mula bandha (the root lock) is a significant practice in such manner.
Mantra and Meditation
The pranas in the psyche can be managed legitimately. There are pranayama systems that work with the psyche and faculties, and are not simply constrained to the breath. Shading and sound (music) are significant approaches to coordinate vitality in the psyche, however the best method is mantra, especially single syllable, or bija, mantras like Om, which make vibrations that can help direct positive vitality into the subliminal. Reflection itself, making space in the psyche, serves to make more prana, and when the brain is brought into a quiet and open condition, similar to a region of sky, another vitality appears which can realize incredible change. 
Every one of the ways of yoga depend on controlling prana. Bhakti yoga, or the yoga of dedication, achieves pranic change by joining us with the perfect prana. Karma yoga, or administration, depends on arrangement with the awesome will, which likewise gives us more prana, not exclusively to act apparently, however for internal improvement. 
Old style yoga, or raja yoga, depends on the control of mental exercises (chitta vrittis). The vibration of the psyche (chitta spanda) pursues the vibration of (prana spanda), and in this manner pranayama helps control the brain. It additionally helps control the faculties (pratyahara), in light of the fact that it pulls back our mindfulness internal from the faculties. Hatha yoga itself is chiefly worried about prana; yoga stances happen as an outflow of pranic development, and numerous incredible yogis learned yoga stances not through mechanical practice, yet through the intensity of their stirred prana. 
Jnana yoga, or the yoga of learning, requires a solid will and focus. In this yoga the prana of request must be made, which means we should ask into our actual nature, not only rationally however in the majority of our day by day exercises; without well-created udana 
 vayu we will fail. 
Undoubtedly, as the Vedas state, we are altogether under the influence of prana. Prana is the sun that gives life and light to everybody and abides inside the heart as the Self all things considered. The prana in us gives us life and enables us to act. We should figure out how to be available to and welcome this more noteworthy power and look to bring it all the more completely into our life and activities. This is perhaps the best mystery of yoga. 
Getting Energy and the Pranic Body
In our physical body, blood moves through veins, vessels, and corridors. In our vitality body, prana courses through vitality pathways called nadis (nadi interprets as stream). 
Prana rides on the breath, so when we take in, we take in prana. At the point when we extend the breath and improve its nature, we are growing and improving the nature of this fundamental life power inside and around us. This is actually what yoga breathing strategies, or pranayama, are intended to do. 
A significant part of the pranic body are the chakras, or vitality focuses. In yoga, we center around the seven significant chakras that exist along the line of the spine, every one associated with explicit organs and organs of the physical body, just as territories of our mind that impact our character. 
It is accepted by numerous that wellbeing and prosperity comes when there is a fair vitality move through every one of the seven significant chakras. 
On the flipside, when prana is kept from streaming normally, either getting to be blocked or overactive at one point, it can make disharmony on both a physical and passionate level. 
How Might We Help Prana Flow Freely?
By rehearsing Yoga, obviously! 
Yoga stances, especially the conventional or old style asanas, initiate explicit chakras. For instance, Bridge Pose and Shoulder Stand work the vitality at the throat chakra, which can impact how we speak with others. 
On a physical level, the throat chakra relates to the thyroid and parathyroid organs, and can along these lines have a supporting and adjusting impact on our digestion. 
How about we not overlook pranayama, the yoga breathing procedures which are explicitly intended to grow prana. The word yama intends to control, so when we grow and control the breath, we can deliberately extend and convey the essential life power inside our framework. 
While you don't really need to completely grasp this part of yoga to get the advantages, rehearsing with vigorous affectability can add another measurement to your training, and maybe help you appreciate increasingly adjusted degrees of wellbeing and prosperity. 
How to comprehend prana?
1. Increase prana. You need more prana no matter what. 
2. Conserve prana. You need to profit and set aside cash.
3. Channel prana. You need to spend it admirably. Use it, yet channel it. 
4. Balance prana. A great deal of issue originates from awkwardness. Vitality is wild a lot of this, an excessive amount of that. 
5. Purify prana. It resembles you change your 5 dollar notes to 100 dollar notes. You need to cause the vitality to turn out to be all the more dominant. Since when it turns out to be increasingly unadulterated it turns out to be all the more dominant. 
Comprehend why we are worn out
•Sometimes we think "I'm worn out so I rest". Be that as it may, reflection around then is better. 
•You do the asanas so you can sit to reflect. In the end on the off chance that you will have the option to control the brain, you tune to the supernatural self. 
•When you are drained, you think just about the physical body, however you are not understanding that your tiredness is additionally originating from mental tiredness and profound tiredness. 
•When you are drained you think just about the physical body and state " I would be advised to go get some nourishment". That implies you allude back over and over to the physical body. 
•But you additionally have mental tiredness, mental enthusiastic tiredness. At the point when you are drained perhaps you have the psychological tiredness since you have some negative feelings that are gobbling you up inside. 
•You probably won't know about that. Like you resent something or you detest something and your astuteness go off course thinking all sort of things that are totally off-base. 
•On top of that, the personality is there, obstructing the stream, so the vitality of unadulterated cognizance isn't there, and you are blocking yourself from that progression of vitality. 
The Prana Pulse  

•We need to figure out how to feel the beat of our prana consistently and when we feel that our prana is deficient with regards to, you have the decision to go to the most elevated wellspring of prana, the profound prana . This most perfect sort of prana that will supply prana to the various levels. 
•Any measure of physical movement won't supply the otherworldly prana and unwinding that you need. Be that as it may, on the off 
 chance that you can yield the profound prana, this will give all of you the vitality to illuminate all your psychological, enthusiastic blockages, all your numbness in your reasoning, break up the self image and give wellbeing to the body. 
•But in the event that you tune just to the physical level and decipher everything physically, focusing as long as you can remember and awareness around the physical body, you are incorrect. Around then you starve your psychological body and otherworldly body. You don't think about otherworldly reason. You put the profound behind the physical. 
•So that is not an exceptionally savvy method for utilizing the Universal vitality accessible to you for your prosperity. Keep in mind, our prosperity is physical, mental, and enthusiastic.
Expanding prana
•You increment prana by a cautious decision of way of life. Way of life should be adjusted and healthy. Know about the way that the vitality of Nature originates from the vitality of the 5 fundamental components of Nature: Earth, water, fire, air, and ether. 
•Just the way that you are living in nature, you are getting prana. On the off chance that you live falsely, you are cutting off yourself from the regular progression of prana. You live in solid, glass, and steel, neon light, no prana air. You go to mall, place of business, blend with numerous individuals of no insight, without supernatural considerations. Everybody is focused, and avaricious. You attempt to make cash to be someone. You leave structures and step in the vehicle and drive on expressway, the greater part of your day by day exercises are counterfeit. This way of life increments vata, and the counterfeit ness in the brain. You land at counterfeit home, eat fake nourishment, microwave. You surf the Internet and have fake connections. Would you be able to envision... .. 
•You need to sustain the physical body with nature, sit on earth, see trees, embrace a tree, take a gander at creatures. Wonder about bloom, grass. This gives you prana. Attempt to monitor, don't spend. You have to settle on a shrewd decision of way of life which will give 
 you energy and aliveness. Some of the time, you have to settle on extraordinary decisions to recover your personal satisfaction. 
Saving prana
•When you are debilitated, you lie there and you can't talk, think, or move, in light of the fact that your prana is totally down. Envision everything takes prana. Throughout the day you are dynamic you are moving near. You are thinking. You go through so much prana. How would you energize? You can't spend more than you make. 
•Daily, you need to compute in your mind brisk how would you spend vitality. Am I accomplishing things today to energize? Consistently, you address with difficulties and you have to ration vitality spent on pointless things so you will have vitality to address with your difficulties. 
•When you invest time at the ashram, you are in certainty contributing your vitality to get the profound vitality, the intelligence. On the off chance that you get this otherworldly vitality, you will squander less your vitality. 
•For model, on the off chance that you have a psychological issue, when you have profound vitality, you will say "this is peanuts, this is simple" . By and large, you need point of view of your life and what your identity is. If not, you get furious of each seemingly insignificant detail. We spend vitality going round, round, round. 
•Sometimes you are worn out, you would state " I'm going to eat,and visit and not go to satsang" . This implies you are not contributing carefully your vitality. Be careful not to squander your vitality on things that are redundant. 
•That's the reason in yoga theory the shrewd instructor says: segregate, separate! ... Don't stress, don't stress. So you can get to the wellspring of the issue. A similar issue will be there, yet you can perceive the truth about it. 
Directing prana
•Channeling vitality means make your life helpful. Utilize your vitality for benevolent reason, at that point you will acquire profound vitality. On the off chance that you spend vitality for egotistical reason, it makes you feel solid, yet you pay in another way, stress, protectiveness, accumulating, prideful desire. It squares you so you pay the cost. It' s not in any case justified, despite all the trouble on the off chance that you consider appropriately. 
•If you use vitality sacrificially, suppose in administration, you get the profound vitality. You utilize your physical, mental vitality, yet you receive consequently profound vitality. That is known as the guideline of karma yoga. It's a cognizant trade of vitality. It winds up profound vitality.
Adjusting prana
•How you can be imbalanced? Lets state you do an excessive amount of physical work, you won't have enough vitality for deduction and won't have the option to do mental work or even have feeling. 
•Some other individuals are feeling constantly, they are enthusiastic to the point that they have no vitality for speculation. They simply feel, feel, and feel. Other individuals are thinking, thinking, and after that they have no vitality for feelings. So you should adjust everything. 
•It is said on the off chance that you are excessively enthusiastic, you would need to be increasingly normal, and think a tad. In the opposite, on the off chance that an individual is excessively dry, at that point they have to build up their ability of inclination. So whatever you do at the ashram you are adjusting yourself. Serenade a bit, think a bit, tune to the profound, and monitor your physical vitality. In the event that you don't want to recite, that is actually when you have to recite to renew your enthusiastic vitality that is down and dry around then. 
•This will develop that reverential vitality that floods you and adjust you and make you feel invigorated. At that point at times you would prefer not to think. Around then you should be alert and think. So 
 you practice your scholarly vitality. 
•Sometimes you need to peruse 5 hours per day. In the ashram you need to do physical work, on the grounds that a large portion of us are excessively mental. You need to go hack wood, convey water, burrow channel, clean lake. This kind of physical work is likewise useful for individuals with a lot of physical vitality as it would spend that abundance of physical vitality out and balance you. Else you become out of sort. 
A few people are so assimilated at taking a gander at their neighbor for example they are self-retained, constantly stressed over others' opinion of them. This proud vitality devours them. We have to have enough of mindfulness, yet in the event that you are devoured by it, around then you become cut off from your higher reason. 
Cleanse prana
•This is the most intriguing theme. How would you purge your vitality? You decontaminate through rehearsing otherworldly practices, by deliberately going in a direction of how to manage your body, mind, feelings that is helping you to change cognizance. That is called sadhana. That is the manner by which you sanitize your vitality. 
•Practicing sadhana isn't your typical inclination. In any case, when you comprehend the pattern of your body - mind and see how you continue rehashing examples and make botches, around then, you attempt to prepare your body-mind distinctively and move it from its typical course. 
•Sadhana expels the inner self and it moves toward becoming cleaned. Sadhana changes your wavelength from gross to unpretentious. In yoga, each training is to sanitize your entire framework. Your nadis become clear, and more vitality moves through. 
•Sw. Sivananda says it is imperative to sanitize our considerations. How to do this? One of the practices is satsanga, when you go to the individuals who skill to think and you hear them out then you 
 consider what they said. The possibility of decontamination is we are unadulterated soul unadulterated Self. 
•Everything about us is emanating unadulterated vitality. We have huge measure of prana or vitality and the principle is the profound vitality. We have it in bounty. Everything else we do is simply to clean the covering that is deterring that brilliance of the Self that is as of now inside us. The more you increase Self-information or Self-mindfulness the more vitality or prana you get.








Chapter 4: Psychic Abilitie
 s

Psychic abilities are said to be supernatural powers. These are abilities that others would consider impossible. However, it should be noted that psychic abilities are possible and that there are people who possess such abilities. In fact, every human being possesses some psychic abilities to a certain degree. The problem is that most people do not develop their abilities. Consequently, they are not able to use and take advantage of their abilities. If only people could take more time to meditate, then you will see that psychic abilities are supposed to be very common. In fact, regular practice of even the basic breathing meditation can help you awaken your latent psychic abilities. 
From now on, you should not see psychic abilities as something that is extraordinary. Realize that you possess these abilities. It is just a matter of developing and making use of your abilities. Yes, you need to learn to use them effectively.
Psychic abilities have become controversial. In fact, there are those who completely do not believe in the existence of such abilities. This is due to the sad fact that those who surface and claim to possess psychic abilities are mere hacks and scams who do not even know how to meditate. Do not allow these people to discourage you from pursuing a noble and magical path. After all, the best way for you to ensure that such abilities truly exist is by seeing it for yourself. The more that you meditate, the more that you will realize the psychic abilities that you possess. 
The different psychic abilitie
 s
There are numerous psychic abilities in the world. Although it would be great to master all of them, it would be practical to just find which ability you prefer the most and use your time and efforts to master that ability. If you can dedicate more time, then you can branch out 
 and learn another ability. Keep in mind that when it comes to learning, you need to focus on the quality of your learning. So, feel free to learn as many psychic abilities as you want, but be sure not to sacrifice the quality of your learning. 
So, what are the different psychic abilities? Well, there are many. One of the most heard of is clairvoyance. Clairvoyance or clear-seeing is the ability to see beyond what the physical eyes can see. It can allow you to look beyond and divine the future, see and read auras, as well as see subtle energies and entities, among others. The ability of clairvoyance is closely related to your ajna chakra, which is the seat of intuition and higher consciousness. If you want to develop this psychic ability, then you need to develop your ajna chakra. 
Another psychic ability that you should know is known as clairsentience, which means clear feeling. It refers to the ability to receive intuitive messages through emotions and feelings, which may also include physical sensations. People who have this ability are often referred to as empaths. This is due to their ability known as empathy. This ability will allow you to feel people and understand them on a much deeper level. This is characterized by a heightened sensitivity to subtle energies, feelings, and emotions. The more that you engage in meditation, the more that you can develop this ability. To be more specific, this ability is more associated with the heart chakra. Of course, the ajna chakra also has an important role to play in the development of this psychic ability.
Clairaudience refers to clear hearing. Think of it like a little voice that tells you the right thing to do. You are probably aware of the saying that there is an angel beside you that sometimes tells you the right thing to do. Well, many times, it is actually the psychic ability known as clairaudience that should be given credit. This ability is also linked to the ajna chakra as it makes use of the intuition. It is also worth noting that messages from the spiritual world are often received through this psychic ability. You cannot expect for those in the spiritual plane to manifest strongly in the physical plane, as they are in a different realm or plane of existence. 
Almost everyone has a good memory of some experience with this psychic ability. It is that "voice" that speaks in your head and tells you the right thing to do or idea to think about. You might think of it as the messages from your guardian angel. Although it is true that we can receive messages from our guardian angel, it is also true that some of these meaningful messages may come not from an angel but from your intuition and is communicated to you in a psychic way. The more that you do meditation, the more that you will be able to notice this "voice" in your head. It is your intuition talking to you. Listen to it. 
Another interesting psychic ability is known as claircognizance, also known as clear knowing. It is the ability to just know things even without any logic or fact. You can consider it as some kind of inner knowing. For example, having this "knowing" that you should not trust a certain person, only to find out that that person really cannot be trusted or is a bad person. Take note that this is different from clairaudience. In this case, there is no voice of any kind that you have to deal with. Instead, you simply know things as they are. You do not have to do anything; you just know. Although all your chakras should be well developed to master this ability, there are two main chakras that are primarily needed for this psychic ability: the crown chakra and the ajna chakra. 
However, it should be noted that there are many other psychic abilities that exist. Unfortunately, the world only considers the above abilities to be the "main" abilities. The truth is that there are many other abilities that are just as wonderful.

Telekinesis 

 

Telekinesis is the psychic ability to move objects using the power of the mind. This is one of the most fascinating abilities that you can learn. It is also very popular. However, the question remains: Is it real? The answer to this is yes
 . However, learning telekinesis takes time and practice. If you want to learn telekinesis, then here are the 
 instructions that you need:
Place a light object in front of you, preferably on a table. You can use a feather, small stone, or anything that is light enough. Now, just relax. Focus on the object in front of you. Now, visualize forming a tunnel between you and the object. Nothing should exist in front of you but the object of your focus. Now, visualize your astral hand reaching out and pushing the object. Another thing that you can do is to visualize a ray of prana pushing the object. Watch it move.
As you can see, the steps are simple. It is up to you to practice this technique until you are able to do it properly. Once you get good at it, you can skip the part where you have to envision a tunnel between you and the object. After all, its purpose is only to aid you in your visualization and give you better focus.
Here is another technique that you can use to do telekinesis:
Place an object in front of you. Just relax. Now, focus on the object. Try to feel the object. Be one with it. Consider the object to be an extension of yourself. How does it feel to be the object? Do you feel how it (you) is attached to the table? Be one with it. The more that you become one with it, the more that you can feel that you can move it, much like when you try to move your hand. When you finally reach the point where you are, indeed, one with the object - that you are the object - then just move, and it will move. 
It is important to be one with the object to the point that you feel that the object has become a part of you. Another thing to take note of is not to use force. When you practice telekinesis, you need to be relaxed. A common mistake is to use force when you focus on something. Take note that focusing does not mean that you need to use force. The more relaxed you are, the better. The important thing is your state of mind.
Telekinesis is actually divided into two categories: microkinesis and microkinesis. The two techniques above are examples of macrokinesis whereby you actually move objects. If you think that it is too difficult for you, then you might want to start out with microkinesis. Microkinesis deals with randomness instead of literally moving objects with your mind. Here is an exercise that you can do to try microkinesis.
Use a random generator. You can also use a die or a coin if you want. Microkinesis is about influencing the outcome of randomness. Instead of making an object move, you should create a certain outcome. For example, flip a coin and make it land with the head side facing up. You can also shuffle a deck of cards and use your ability to make the top card always a red card. Again, microkinesis is about influencing the result of randomness. So, how do you do this? It is similar to moving an object. For this exercise, let us use a die. The objective is to make it land on the number 6 (the number 6 facing up). The steps are as follows:
Relax and hold the die in your hand. Before you roll the die, visualize that the outcome of the will be number 6. Visualize this repeatedly in your mind. Feel the die in your hand and be one with it. You will have this feeling that you are one with the die and that you can, indeed, control it to roll to any number that you want. Now, roll the die with certainty that the outcome will be the number of your choice. In this case, it is number 6. You can also try a different number. 
Feel free to device your own method or exercise. The principle remains the same: You should use visualization and be one with the object. Once again, never use any kind of force. Keep in mind that you do not force things to happen; instead, you just let things happen.
Pyrokinesi
 s
Pyrokinesis is another psychic ability that will allow you to control fire. Indeed, many people would want to learn this technique. Just like any other kinetic ability, pyrokinesis takes effort to learn, but it is worth practicing. For this exercise, you will need to use a candle. The steps are as follows:
Light the candle. Relax. Now, focus on the flame of the candle. Be one with it. Feel it. Feel yourself as the flame. Do you feel how hot you are? This flame is an extension of yourself. Spend some more time becoming one with the flame. Once you reach this point of oneness with the flame, you can easily feel that you can move it. Make it lean to one side, and then to the other. Remember: you are the flame. 
To move the candle flame, you might also want to use visualization. If you truly become one with the flame, you will notice that you do not need to exert too much effort. You can just feel it and will it to move. Once again, the same principles apply—merging with the object and visualization. If you get good at it, you might not even have to use visualization. This depends on your spiritual maturity, as well as how much your personal preference. The best way to find out what will work for you is to try it out and see for yourself.
However, doing so would require another book, or even books, to cover everything. For now, you have the information that you need that can help you activate and develop your psychic senses. Let us now move on and discuss what is known as psychic awareness. 
Psychic awarenes
 s
Psychic awareness is not a psychic ability per se but more about the right approach that you need to take when you awaken your psychic senses. As the saying goes, "With great power come great responsibilities." If you are just starting out, you might consider your psychic senses to be quite strange. This is because you are not yet used to them. However, the more that you do the meditation techniques in this book, the more that you will be in touch with your psychic senses. Soon enough, they will be very common and normal 
 for you. Since meditation empowers all the chakras, you can rest for sure that you will develop several psychic senses/abilities if you religiously practice the techniques in this book. 
When it comes to being aware, it is important to be aware of the presence of energy, as well as the quality of this energy. For example, if you meet someone and sense a strong negative energy, then you might want to avoid that person, or at least put up a shield when you do speak with him. By being psychically aware, you can put your psychic senses to good use and help you with your everyday life. 
You should understand that your psychic senses couldn't help you if you do not make good use of them. 
It is noteworthy that the word "psychic" comes from the word psi, which means energy. Hence, when you talk about psychic awareness, it has to do with being aware of the energy inside you and all around you. By sensing and understanding energy, you will be more able to know the best actions to take in any situation. Hence, it can help you come up with the best decision and course of action. 
Empathy
The key to psychic awareness is to develop empathy. Empathy is another psychic ability that will allow you to sense human emotions and feelings. Technically speaking, it is not just emotions that you can sense when you develop empathy. Instead, you get to sense and understand energy, especially the quality of energy. 
So, how do you develop empathy? Again, you can develop empathy by doing the exercises in this book. There are also certain practices that you can do that directly engage and develop this ability. Let us discuss them one by one:
Empathic connection
The next time that you interact with someone, visualize a cord that connects your heart chakra to the heart chakra of the other person. Keep a clear and open mind. How do you feel about it? Is there any idea or thought that pops into your mind as you connect to this person? Try to sense the state of mind of the other person. When done, do not forget to cut the link. You can do this by visualizing that you are psychically cutting the link with a visualized scissors or knife. 
Psychic sense
An easy way to use empathy is simply to be still and just feel the other person. How do you feel about him/her? When you use this technique, you need to clear your mind. Having a clear mind will allow you to get impressions from the other person. Use your intuition and psychic senses to know more and understand the other person. 
Heart chakra empowerment
The main chakra that is used for empathy is that heart chakra. Therefore, by developing the heart chakra, the more empathic you can be. There is a simple yet effective way to do this, and that is by charging your heart chakra with energy. Simply visualize that whenever you inhale, you get to draw in energy from the universe and allow this energy to flow and charge up your heart chakra. Let the heart chakra be energized until it is shining brightly in your mind's eye. Do this several times a day, and you will definitely have a powerful heart chakra that you can effectively use for empathy. 
Listen to your emotions/feelings
Empathy is all about emotions or feelings. The more that you understand the language of feelings, the more that you will be able to know what certain energy impressions mean. Hence, make it a habit to teach yourself to listen to your feelings. The more that you understand certain feelings, the more that you will understand the language behind them.
There are people who are only in touch with their psychic abilities or senses when they meditate or do something that are related to their spiritual practice. This is wrong, as you cannot really separate your psychic self from who you are even during normal consciousness. Hence, learn to live with your psychic abilities and senses.
How to Develop Your Psychic Abilities 
  
Now, how do you enhance these abilities? Well, just like with any other skill, you simply have to keep on practicing them. When you say practice, it means actually putting it into real application. The best way to practice is to incorporate your psychic abilities in your everyday life. 
So, how do you live with psychic abilities? Simply make them a natural part of who you are as a person. After all, there is no good reason for you to hide them. However, it should be noted that you should not boast about your abilities, and you should not use them for evil purposes. Let us now discuss effective ways on how to enhance your psychic abilities by making them a part of your everyday life:

When you take a bath, do not just clean your physical body, but also make an effort to cleanse all negative energies of your astral body. Visualize that as you clean your physical body, you also clean all negativities and impurities in your soul. See and feel the negative energies being washed away by the water and go in down the drain. Visualize yourself shining brightly.


If you have time to focus on your breath, then you can 
 cleanse and charge yourself at any time. As you inhale, visualize positive energy entering your body. When you exhale, see and feel the negative energies being released from your body.
When someone calls you on the phone, take a moment to define who it is. Close your eyes or just focus, listen to your intuition, and then focus on who it is. 
When you are engaged in a conversation, do not just listen to the words that the other person is telling you. You should also connect to them on a deeper level by using your empathic ability. Use whatever technique you may find helpful or necessary.
Make sure to make time to meditate regularly (every day). Meditation plays a very important role in your spiritual development, especially in the awakening of the Kundalini.
When you see an interesting object, especially if it is an old object, hold it in your hand, feel it, and allow your intuition to tell you the history of the object. This ability is known as psychometry. 
Start using your intuition. This does not mean that you should no longer use logic or reasons, but you should also pay attention to what your intuition tells you.
Improve yourself by working on corresponding chakras.

There are many ways to incorporate your practices in your daily life. The problem is that there are people who simply do not take the efforts to practice their abilities. It is also advised that you give yourself even just an hour from time to time to do nothing but to practice your abilities. You do not have to develop all your psychic abilities all at once. If you want, you can just focus on one or two abilities at a time. 
The more that you make good use of your abilities, the more that you can develop them. The key here is repetition. This is why continuous practice is very important. You also have to give it your 
 focus and attention. Always do your best. 







Chapter 5: Psychic Skill
 s
This is another great topic in spirituality. When you practice the techniques in this book, you are going to wake up your psychic abilities. Unfortunately, quite a few people view psychic abilities as something supernatural that doesn't really exits. The truth of the matter is, psychic abilities are real and takes nothing more than healthy and strong chakras and an open mind. There are several different types of psychic abilities. Let's go over each one.
Clairvoyance
This is the most common ability. Clairvoyance is having an ability of clear-seeing. Clairvoyants are often able to see symbols, dreams, visions, images, and colors that help them to interpret their environment. These images will either be seen with the physical or mind's eye.
Clairvoyance gives you a way to access the knowledge of your own soul, and the collective knowledge of every soul within the Universe. This includes the past, present, and those not yet here. Unfortunately, there are many people who are clairvoyant that discredit this ability as a daydream, imagination, or wishful thinking.
These people aren't completely wrong. Clairvoyance does originate from the same side of the brain as the imagination, the right side. However, the imagination holds the seeds for these clairvoyant images. This is why these images appear in the same way as all other free expression and creativity.
You can tell when your clairvoyance is strengthening when you experience:

Extremely vivid or active dreams.
You daydream more than usual.
You are able to come up with entire scenes about the future within your mind.
When you are listening to a conversation, you start playing out an inner scene in your mind where you can see it unfold.
You have a way with descriptive metaphors.
You start seeing things out of the corner of your eye which causes you to do a double take to make sure that you didn't really see a person.
You have blurry vision or see flashes of light.
You experience precognitive visions during meditation or in dreams.
When you notice a spirit in your space, you feel as if you can see it within your mind and you feel that you know what the spirit looks like.

These all show that you have a sharp inner vision, which, with more work, can be sharpened even further, and the exercises in this section will help you do so. Visualization helps clairvoyance ability, as you will see with these exercises.
This first exercise uses a room in your house to help strengthen your clairvoyance:

Sit in a relaxing position as if you are getting ready to meditate.
Think about a specific room in your house. It could be the kitchen, bedroom, whichever one speaks to you. 
See it as clearly as possible. Pay attention to all the small details like how objects are arranged, the walls, ceiling, floor, or anything else. Take mental notes of everything you see. 
Open your eyes and go check to see if you were actually able to see everything in the room you chose.

This exercise allows you to travel and see places through 
 clairvoyance. You can use the visualization screen we talked about earlier. Don't rush this technique. Take the time you need so you can take all the mental notes about every little detail.
This next exercise uses flowers. You can either take a walk through the woods or collect several different types of flowers, or you can go to the craft store and buy some fake flowers. The latter is a good option for the fall or winter, or if you have allergies. Here's what you do:

Pick up one of the flowers that you collected and run your fingers all over it.
Take note of all of its imperfections, textures, and colors.
Once you believe that you have a good mental image of the flower, close your eyes and lay the flower down.
Take in a deep breath and allow yourself to relax.
With your eyes shut, try to recall everything you can about the flower that you just studied. Bring a picture of this flower up in your mind's eye.
Once you have gotten a good mental image of one flower, you can repeat the process with another flower.

In this last exercise, you get to get creative. You will need a lot of craft supplies; vibrant colored paper, glitter, markers, washi tape, paint, whatever you have on hand.

Grab a piece of paper and draw out your initials and then start to decorate it. Cover your initials in any fashion that you so wish. The more stuff you are able to add, the more you will get from this exercise.
Once you are finished decorating your initials, sit and stare at your creation for 30 seconds or so.
Shut your eyes and allow yourself to relax.
With your eyes shut, try to think of everything that is on your drawing and hold that image in your mind. Move that mental picture around so that you can watch how the glitter sparkles when the light hits it.
Open your eyes and see how much you remembered about your drawing.

With your first few attempts, you will probably fail to see every single thing correctly but don't let this discourage you. Keep a positive frame of mind and practice. Never let any failure discourage you. You won't ever fail as long as you continue to try. The more you practice, the better you will get at it. This is how the process works. It is the same as learning any new skill. Keep practicing and do the best you can. 
With time and patience, you will soon see progress. You will begin to see that you can visualize the place clearly and you will be able to correctly see where specific things are. This power uses the third eye chakra. The more you practice this you will be able to start visiting other dimensions and places. This might seem like a simple exercise but it is very powerful. All of these techniques are simple, but with constant and sincere practice, it can make a huge difference.
These exercises aren't the only way to strengthen your clairvoyance. You can also play some fun games. Do you remember playing the game Memory as a child? To refresh your memory, the game consisted of at least six cards of three pairs. They would be laid face down, and you would flip them over and try to find the pairs. You can use this same game to help improve your intuitive abilities. You can also enlist the help of a friend and a pack of Zener cards. The cards have different symbols on it and you and your friend can take turns trying to guess the symbols on the cards.
Telekinesis
This psychic ability means someone has the ability to influence or move objects with their mind. There are two types of telekinesis: macro telekinesis and micro telekinesis. Macro telekinesis refers to the way many people understand what telekinesis is. Micro telekinesis refers to having the ability to influence odds or randomness. Meaning you could influence a deck of cards that have been shuffled or a random number generator.
The best way to understand what macro and micro telekinesis are is to do an actual practice:
Macro telekinesis
This is what most people visualize when they hear the word telekinesis. It is the ability to move objects with your mind like moving objects such as a car or a television along with small things like rings or coins. Most people wonder if this is a real ability. This would be a big yes. There are no limits to the power of our minds except what we put upon it. This exercise will help you experience macro telekinesis:
Put a light object in front of you on a table.
Focus your entire attention on this object. Become one with it. 
Allow your focus to take over you so that you see nothing but that object.
Make a tunnel with your mind that will connect you to that object and don't allow anything but that object to exist. 
Feel the object become one with your mind. 
With your mind's eye, watch your astral hand reach out and push the object.
Did you move it? A different way to do it is to just use willpower and be one with the object while making it move with sheer willpower. Many people might have to use visualization. Try both ways and figure out which one works best for you. Don't get discouraged if nothing happens when you first try this. You just have to keep practicing.
Here is one more exercise you could try. This exercise teaches you how to levitate an object. Try these steps:

Put a light object like a feather on your hands. 
Keep your hands with your palms up in front of you.
Feel the feather on your palms. Feel its weight. Its lightness.
You are going to use your energy to levitate this feather. You are going to draw energy by chanting: "light as air, light as a feather."
Continue chanting this for a few minutes while you connect with the object and cause it to levitate.

If you don't have a feather, you could use aluminum foil. The foil might not levitate, but it might move a bit on your hand.
Macro telekinesis is thought of as an advanced psychic ability. Don't expect to have the ability to do these exercises without taking time to practice them for a long time. This ability is worth learning. Don't let it cause you to lose sight of what is most important in your spiritual life. Acquiring psychic powers is interesting and nice, but it isn't the end all be all of your spirituality.
Micro telekinesis
You will need a coin to do this exercise. Remember micro telekinesis is influencing the outcome of odds or randomness. For this exercise, you are going to use your mind to change the outcome of the flip of a coin. Any coin will do as long as it has two different sides. Now you need to pick either heads or tails. You are going to influence your side so that it will land up with each flip of the coin. You must influence this coin while flipping it 100 times.
In theory, if you flip a coin 100 times, the outcome would normally be 50 tails and 50 heads or something close to that. If you are able to apply micro telekinesis, then you should have a large difference such as 70 tails and 30 heads, if tails were your chosen side.
How can you do this? How can you apply micro telekinesis? The best way is doing it with your mind and by using visualization and willpower. Here are the steps:

Relax completely since telekinesis is better when you are completely relaxed. 
You aren't trying to force anything to happen. Instead, you are letting it happen. Let's say your chosen side is tails.
When you flip the coin, "see" with your mind that the coin will fall with the tail side up.
While doing this, exert very strong willpower. You are commanding the coin to do your will.

Here is a different technique you could try:

Choose a coin and put it in your hand. 
Look at it and keep your focus on it. Become one with it. Focus until it feels like it is a part of you.
When you feel you are in complete control, use your willpower to influence it and make it give you your outcome.

While flipping the coin, feel the coin as being a part of you and make it land on the side you want it to.
There aren't any secrets to this technique. It is just about being one with the coin and making it do your will. Don't think of the coin as being a separate object. Feel like you are one with the coin or it is an extension of you such as an elbow or leg. You have become that coin.
This is only an example of the way micro telekinesis could be used. If you get to a point where it is easy for you to control the outcome of the coin flip, you could try new things like dice or a deck of cards that has been shuffled. When using a deck of cards, you could try to just force a certain color. Think of either black or red while shuffling 
 the deck. The top card of the deck will be the chosen color. You have free rein on how you practice using micro telekinesis. After you have developed this ability, you can use it in many ways. There are people who claim that they can use this to influence slot machines or the lottery. There are actual psychics who have won the lottery. Understand that psychic abilities aren't meant to be used to make you rich. You need to use them to help others and grow better spiritually. Don't lose the real purpose when practicing these abilities. Remain steadfast in what is good. 
Clairsentience
This is known as clear sensing. This lets you feel the future, past, or present along with the emotional states of others without using the normal five senses. With this ability, you can feel any subtle energy. Look at it like this: if clairvoyance is about sight, clairsentience is about feelings. This isn't as hard as it seems. You might already have a good sense of clairsentience and you just aren't aware of it yet. A good example is having a bad feeling right before something bad happens. You might feel positive energy and realize that you had a spirit brush by you. This deals a lot with the quality of energy. How can you practice and develop this ability? Just keep feeling the energy. If you can develop your empathic ability, you will be able to increase your clairsentience. Try this exercise:

You need to be in a public place or someplace where there are a lot of people around you.
Look around and find someone that you "feel" is a good person. You don't need to be logical here just let your intuition lead you.
Discreetly focus on this person. 
Feel with your heart chakra. Your heart chakra is the center of your emotions. It is Universal oneness and love. 
Feel and see a ray of light coming from your heart chakra and allow it to connect with your chosen person's heart chakra. This will be your connection to this person. 
Clear your mind. You should soon be receiving ideas, thoughts, emotions, or impressions from this person.

You aren't limited to just feeling people's energy. You can use your ability to sense a place's energy. If you don't like or are afraid of traveling, you could think of a place in your mind and try to "feel" it from afar. Like with any other skill, this is also going to take practice. The main point is to use your feelings to sense the energy around you. The more you practice, the more sensitive you will get to all the subtle energy. 
Divination
A simple definition of divination is seeking knowledge about the future by using supernatural or unknown means. It comes from the Latin divinare meaning to foresee or being inspired by a god. It is an attempt to get insight about a situation or question by using standardized, occult rituals or processes. 
Tarot cards are the most common tool used by people who have this ability. We will not be going in depth about each tarot card, but I will teach you how to use any type of tarot deck. You use your intuition. All tarot cards give you a message that you have to figure out. Rather than every card having a specific meaning, you can also interpret the meanings in your own way. Again you do this by using your intuition.
There aren't any set rules on how to do this. You just need to choose a card or create a spread. When you have the cards in front of you that you have to interpret, just clear your mind and relax. Let your intuition take total control. Look at the cards and focus on them. How are you feeling? Are you getting any emotions or ideas from the cards? Take your time so you can understand each card. When you have practiced enough, you will get better and be able to read all the tarot cards. You have to understand that the tarot cards are mere tools. There aren't any regulations or rules. You are using them to 
 give you a message. It isn't practical to memorize every meaning of every card.
One other method of divination is using pendulums. For doing this, you need to learn to dowse. You might be wondering what a pendulum is. This is an object that has been suspended from a chain or string. Before you can practice this, you need to have a pendulum. You can find them in any occult shop. If you are just beginning, you can create your own. You just need a thread or string and a needle. A normal sewing needle is fine. Just cut the thread to whatever length you desire and place it through the eye of the needle and tie it off.
When you use dowsing, pendulums can answer your questions. The best questions are ones that can be answered by either no or yes. You can ask it a question like: "Will it rain today?" It will then swing in the direction that you have dictated to be "yes" or "no". A pendulum is a very effective tool when used correctly. Now that you have a general idea about using a pendulum, let's try a little exercise.
You need to find out how your pendulum will move for a "yes" or "no" answer. You can figure this out be holding your pendulum by the string and let it hang freely. When it becomes still, ask it to show you "yes". The pendulum should move in a specific direction. This will indicate how it will answer for "yes". Remember how it moved. Now do the same thing for "no". Don't stop until you understand how it is going to respond for you. You should have two very distinctive motions for the answer of "yes" and "no". When you have your responses, you can begin asking questions.
Don't try to ask hard questions when starting out. You need to warm up and get used to your pendulum. Your first questions need to be ones that you know the answer to already like: "Am I wearing black pants?" or "Is today Tuesday?" See if the pendulum gives you the right response. When you are used to this, then you can use it to answer questions that you don't know the answer to. Let's begin:

Let the pendulum hang freely while holding onto the end of the chain or string.
Allow the "needle" to hang freely and allow it to get still. When it stops moving, ask your question.
Make sure you ask your question the right way meaning that is can only be answered by either a yes or no answer. Keep the question clear and short.
When asking your questions, be completely focused on it. 
If it doesn't give you a clear answer, repeat these question until it begins to move. 
You can ask your pendulum any number of questions you would like to, just remember to ask them in the correct way.

Dowsing is a skill just like any other and it requires practice. Never expect to get the correct answers when you are just learning. You have to practice, practice, and practice some more. You should only use one pendulum in order to create a good connection with it. If you need to cleanse your pendulum of negative energies, you can wash it under running water or by submerging it into salt water for a few seconds. You could also put it outside and let the rain cleanse it. Dowsing is an interesting practice. It can be used to find missing people, hidden treasures, lost objects, or water. It can also give you answers to your biggest questions.
Psi Healing
This is the ability to heal by using prana. This is an ability that can be learned. You will learn how to heal illnesses and ailments with prana. There are several ways you can do this. You could find a school for pranic or Reiki healing and take classes. Both use prana to heal but there are some differences. Reiki uses symbols whereas prana focuses on energy healing without actually touching. Let's look at an exercise that will help you understand it better:

You might have a part of you that doesn't feel well. Let's say it 
 is your knee. You can fill it with prana to help heal it. You do this by charging your knee with energy.
Inhale and visualize your knee absorbing pranic energy. Feel that energy going deep into your knee.
Continue doing this until it is completely full of prana.
You need to make sure you have true intentions and faith to heal by using prana.

Our bodies were made to heal themselves. We have forgotten how to do this because today's practices have blocked our bodies from using its healing powers. When we charge the affected part with prana, you are helping it to heal. Remember when healing it will take a lot of energy. You could try this technique any time you have a stomach ache, headache, toothache, or wherever you might have pain. If you were to develop a fever, you can charge your entire body with prana. 
When you get good at this, you could use the ability to heal others. Healing with energy is one of the many abilities that everyone seems to want to learn. Remember that as with all abilities, this is within your grasp to learn. It also takes a lot of practice, especially meditation.
There are numerous psychic abilities in the world. There are just too many to name. All of these use the exact same energy. It is how the energy gets used that makes them different. Acquiring psychic abilities is a part of the spiritual path but it isn't the end that you are looking for. 
Many traditions reject psychic abilities because people thought they would get in the way of attaining true enlightenment. This all depends on a person's preference or beliefs and in how you use these abilities. You need to learn how to use your abilities properly and help people in any way possible for the good.
Awareness
Psychic awareness will happen when you learn how to use your 
 chakras. When you are becoming more psychic, you are becoming more aware of energy or prana within you. Remember everything has energy. When you do the techniques in this book, you will become more sensitive to energy. This will enhance and increase your psychic awareness.
To become more aware, you need to work on intuition. Basically, you need to make sure your third eye is open. Think about seeing your physical things by using your normal eyes, you can use your third eye to see the energy around you. You can use other senses, too.
Awareness is one thing, understanding is another. You need to be careful with this. Some practitioners learn how to be aware but don't do anything else. If you don't do anything, this you really aren't aware of anything. This happens when people don't trust their intuition. If you feel danger when going into a certain place, you need to leave that place immediately. Don't wait until something bad happens. Trust your intuition. When you don't trust your psychic awareness, you will begin to lose it. Some believed all humans had strong psychic awareness. Parents began training their children to focus on physical objects and we forgot about our natural abilities to be aware of energy around us as we grew up. This should have never happened. You need to remember your psychic senses and begin learning how to use them again.
Enhancement
Is there a way to enhance psychic abilities? The simple answer is practice. When you practice, you will continue to get better. This is the main reason people don't succeed in life. Constant practice isn't easy. Many people stop halfway and abandon whatever it is they are doing. When learning new skills, it requires a lot of practice. Let's say you want to learn how to play the piano. You are given a book with clear instructions on how and where to place your fingers along with where each key is located. You are not going to be perfect on your first couple of tries. It might even take you weeks to be able to play through an entire song without making a mistake. 
This same thing happens when you are learning how to achieve any 
 psychic ability. Knowing how to do it is important but it isn't enough. The other important element is to constantly practice. These are the two elements for success: the correct knowledge and constant practice. This book gives you the knowledge. You have to turn that knowledge into practice.
Here are some steps that will help you enhance your psychic abilities:
Believe in yourself
Having negative thoughts can hinder your psychic abilities. You have to have faith and remain positive. Find inspiration anytime, anyplace, and anywhere. Read about other people who have developed their psychic abilities and learn how they did it. Release all skepticism. Trust your natural power along with the supernatural powers in the world. If you give anything less than 100 percent, it isn't acceptable. There isn't any room for doubt while on a spiritual journey.
Relax
In order to get into deep relaxation, many people will breathe slowly or meditate while thinking about nothing. It will clear your mind but it also changes the patterns of the brain waves. It can also relieve tension and decrease metabolic rate. It could improve heart health and cure hypertension. Meditation temporarily alters the prefrontal cortex. This lets your brain perform better and boosts your energy levels. This is what you need to do to get in touch with your spiritual self. Release all your stress and breathe.
Take care of problems
You can't be in tune with your psychic gifts if you aren't at peace with the people around you and yourself. Stay away from fighting. If an argument happens, be quick to resolve it. When you argue, always work toward a resolution. Trying to hurt everyone while angry will make the problem worse. It is harder to meditate when you have a lot of weight on your shoulders. You will never be able to 
 clear your head.
Overcome fears
Psychic abilities can be a bit frightening but being afraid of them will keep your abilities at bay more than being negative. If you truly want to be in tune with your spiritual side, you can't be scared of any consequences. You might get a vision when you least expect it. This is all part of the experience. Embrace your gift. Think of the good you could do with this power and you might not be so scared.
Stay positive
Do what you need to do to stay positive in life. This might entail taking time each day just to do something for yourself. Find a hobby that you like to do. Just find something to put a smile on your face. Negativity and stress will keep you from being completely relaxed. You have to feel free spiritually to be able to improve your psychic abilities. Release your worries before trying to get into a deep state of consciousness.
Improve psychometry skills by finding objects with unknown histories
When you have found objects with unknown histories, touch them until you begin to get feelings. Try to connect to their past. Concentrate for however long it takes. Can you feel anything about its history, its owners, or the item itself? Never force any visions. Just hold the item and feel your way. Don't put any pressure on yourself. Don't get frustrated if you don't feel anything. This will happen from time to time. Every object isn't going to have a past.
Increase telepathy by reading other's thoughts
You have the ability to communicate with others silently. You can practice by guessing what others are thinking whenever possible. Have a person draw a picture or select a card from a deck. Try to figure out what they are drawing or what card was drawn without getting any clues. Continue doing this daily. Telepathy takes 
 concentration and could take years to completely develop. It will get easier with practice and time.









Chapter 6: Clairvoyance & Other Psychic Gifts

 


If you approached kundalini awakening in the first place hoping for some level of psychic awakening, don't feel dejected or misled. Kundalini awakening will absolutely align you better with your intuition, deeper insights, and soul's mission. Furthermore, it will allow you to unlock additional psychic gifts on levels you may not have even known existed before your kundalini rose. This section will walk you through several different psychic gifts that are possible to attain, and as you strengthen your general manifestation and attraction abilities with kundalini awakening, you may even be able to pick and choose these gifts for your experience and needs, based on what you read below.
Aura reading is another psychic gift that is basically exactly what it sounds like. Many of us have the gift of aura reading in our own way, and if anyone tries to tell you that only one
 version of aura reading is right, they're not telling you the full truth. Everyone who can see auras sees them a little bit differently because everyone is unique in their own way. Therefore, if you believe you can see auras, but it doesn't fit with others' experiences, don't worry; trust yourself and believe in your gift.
Automatic writing is a psychic gift that involves channeling (the next point in this list) to a certain extent. Essentially, this gift allows the writer to be able to channel his or her higher self, guides, angels, guardians, or more in that person's effort to be verbally creative.
Channeling is a psychic gift that allows the individual to enter a trance and let another spirit speak through them for a time. It's sort of like demonic or angelic possession, but it's voluntary. The person who acts as the channel will almost always be fully willing to let the spirit talk through him or her.
Clairaudience is a psychic gift that revolves around the ability to hear outside the standard range of human hearing. People with these gifts would be able to hear into other planes of existence, even into supernatural worlds.
Clairgustance is an unusual psychic gift that is oriented around taste and eating. Individuals with this gift would randomly get a taste in their mouth and then receive messages later on in relation to that 
 taste. Furthermore, these "clear tasters" would be able to taste something before even putting it on their tongue.
Clairsalliance is a psychic gift that revolves around the ability to smell outside the standard range of human smelling. Perhaps you would smell something before it happened (such as spilled food or a gas main break or fire). Perhaps you would be able to smell someone's vice on him or her before even striking up conversation. The possibilities are virtually endless!
Clairsentience is the psychic gift that allows one to simply feel the presence of something more. Whether that "more" is a spirit, a guide, an ancestor, a demon, or what have you, this individual would sense the physical (or spiritual) energy of that being before anyone else.
Clairvoyance is a more commonly-heard-of psychic gift that features the ability to see information in one's mind. These people might receive visions or see physical insights into others' lives, but the gist is the same each time: things are always visual.
Divination is the general application of one's psychic gifts to find answers to questions. Divination can be used in terms of reading palms, tea leaves, I Ching, natal charts, tarot cards, crystals, runes, and so much more.
Dowsing is a more old-school psychic gift that our ancestors used to find things. Sometimes, dowsing is guided with a rod or sticks, but the point is to find what's important to you (it was often water or shelter) when you might even have no idea what you're looking for.
Empathy is a psychic gift that allows you to literally feel or take on the emotions of another person. Empaths are often highly sensitive to the feelings of others to a detrimental degree until they learn how to ground themselves and protect their energy from all-too-natural invasion by others.
Intuition is an underrated psychic gift, for it truly is an example of precognition. Anyone whose intuition was right essentially received a momentary glimpse into the future, so the next time your
 intuition is right, be proud for you're unlocking psychic gifts as you live and breathe! There's the first piece of proof!
Mediumship is the highly-coveted psychic ability of contacting 
 those who have passed. Many people are fascinated (if not obsessed) with communing with the spirits of those who are no longer living, and kundalini awakening can help you get there, but you'll really want to be careful. Mediumship can be an incredibly draining gift, and it's not for the faint of heart. I guess what I'm saying is this: be careful what you wish for.
Premonition is the psychic ability of being able to see into the future. This gift is often more symbolic than literal, but the gist is the same whether the message is literal or figurative: the individual with the gift of premonition will know of future events before they come to pass.
Psychometry is a sense-based psychic gift that connects the individual with truth or facts about an object, thing, animal, place, or person just by touching it.
Retrocognition is the psychic ability of being able to see into the past with varying degrees of detail. Sometimes, those glimpses are into one's past lives, while other times, they're general peeks into the past that have no relation to your experience (as far as you know!).
Telekinesis is a psychic ability that allows the individual to manipulate matter with his or her mind, whether moving it, energizing it, or otherwise. Telekinetic individuals can sometimes do such amazing things as walk through walls, bend firm objects, trash a room without being in it, call people to their aid without speaking, and more.
Telepathy is the final psychic gift we'll discuss, and it relates to the power of the individual to communicate with others without opening one's mouth. This alternative mode of communication would likely be through thought, emotion, or vibration.







Chapter 7: Astral Trave
 l
Astral travel is something that most people find a mystery, but it is something that has grown in popularity. While a lot of people still find it odd, it's important to know that you and everybody else do astral travel every time you sleep. Very few people are able to remember what happens when they travel. 
Astral travel, for those who don't know, is where your astral body leaves your physical body and travels to some other area. This is an interesting thing and is a skill that will allow you to travel anywhere in the world without having to pay. You can see the Great Wall, the Taj Mahal, Ireland, Australia, and any other place you could imagine. You can even visit other magical planes of existence and celestial spheres. This is the main reason why so many people want to learn how to astral travel.
When the subject of astral travel comes up, something a lot of people will ask is how safe it is. This is a fair question. Astral travel is the separation of the physical and astral body, but death is really nothing more than a permanent separation of the two bodies, so that means it must be dangerous, right? Not exactly. Astral travel is actually very safe. You don't have to be afraid of it because you have already been doing it for years. The only difference is that you weren't aware of it. Learning to astral travel will allow you to do so and remember your trips.
Fear is very common when it comes to learning about astral travel. I can tell you a million times that it is safe, but it's not easy to believe what I say. How can it not be scary when you notice that you are no longer a part of your physical body? Practice is what will help you to work through this fear. Fear is one of the main reasons why astral travel doesn't work for some people. Fear will cause you to pull your astral body back into your physical body. This is why it's important that you learn how to conquer this fear. You have to understand that this is completely safe.
As soon as you feel afraid, even if just the slightest bit, you will be yanked back into your physical body. Returning to your physical body is extremely easy to do. All you have to do is will yourself back. Simply thinking, "I want to be back in my body," is enough to take you to it. This is why you need to have good control over your thoughts. The important thing is that you cultivate a positive mindset and try not to be afraid. Furthermore, a negative mindset while astral traveling will cause you to attract negative entities. Again, you don't need to worry about these things because you will be brought back to your physical body before you face any actual danger.
While astral traveling, some people experience the silver cord. This silver cord is like an umbilical cord that connects your astral and physical body. This shows you that your two bodies are never really separated. Not everybody witnesses this silver cord. If you don't see one, that is not a big deal. If you do see one, don't worry about it; continue on with your journey.
When you travel, you may see your physical body and possibly your astral form, but you could also appear as nothing but consciousness. You might see the things around you or you could just hear. The more you practice this skill, the better you will become.
You may even encounter other entities or beings in the astral plane. When you are first starting out, it is best that you try not to communicate with anyone or anything in the astral world. As long as you ignore them, they won't bother you. Again, there is no need to be afraid. If you start to sense danger, you can head back to your physical body. If something bad starts to happen, your astral body will automatically be pulled back into your body.
Not only will you be able to travel to amazing places with this, but will also help you to deal with any fears you have concerning death. Death is only the permanent separation of your physical and astral body. With astral travel, it's only temporarily. This will serve as 
 proof that there is life after your physical body perishes.
Most people want to learn astral travel because of its wonderful benefits. The great thing is that everybody has the ability to learn how. Like with any other ability or skill, you have to practice. Luckily, you sleep every night, so practice is easy. With astral travel, the body sleeps, but your consciousness stays awake. We're going to go through some different methods of travel.
Travel Methods

Mental Travel
 : This isn't technically astral traveling, but it is a good place for people to start. Once you have become skilled in this, it will help you to get into real astral traveling. This will only need you to use your mind. Your astral and physical bodies will start together. Depending on how powerful your visualization skills are, this could become an astral journey for you. Follow these steps.

Get into a comfortable position, laying down. Allow yourself to relax. Take a deep breath in and out and relax as if you are going to sleep. Make sure that you stay awake mentally and that your spine remains straight. 
Visualize the room that you are in. Use your mental eyes to see through your closed eyes. Do your best to look all around your room and pay close attention to the small details and the objects you have in your room. 
Visualize yourself stepping out of this room and into the next room of your house. Visualize this room clearly, like you did the first. Continue to move through the rooms of your house as if you were walking to your front door.
Step outside of your house and then roam about your neighborhood and travel wherever you want. 
Once you are finished with your travels, all you need to do is to visualize the room that you are in and think about your physical body. Slowly start to wiggle your toes and fingers and then open your eyes.   

This may be nothing but a visualization exercise; it is also helpful to get your mind ready. When you do this, make sure that you visualize these places as clearly as you can. This isn't astral traveling because you won't have to visualize when you travel, but this is still a great step in the right direction.

Roll-Out Method
 : In this method of astral traveling, you separate your two bodies by rolling onto your side.

Lay down and get ready to go to sleep. Your body is going to fall asleep, but your consciousness will be awake. Lay there and allow your body to relax, rest, and sleep. 
As you do this, feel and think that you are just an astral being. Keep this mindset for a few minutes. When you feel that you have become connected with your astral body, believing that you are your astral body and not a physical one, you should notice that the physical being is asleep, but your astral body remains conscious. 
After you have reached this, you will roll out to the side and leave your astral body. If everything goes well, you will notice that you are no longer a part of your physical body and that you are your astral body. 
Make sure that you don't allow fear to creep in. It can be startling to see your physical body sleeping there in front of you, but if you allow yourself to become afraid, you will be pulled back into your physical body.
You should only roll over onto your side once you no longer feel connected with your physical body. This may have to be tried several times so that you can learn the right sensation or signal for the rolling motion. You can roll to either side that you want; the important thing is to do this with your astral body.


Floating
 : This one will have you float out of your physical body.

As always, lay down and become relaxed. Your spine needs to be straight. Take a deep breath in and out and allow yourself to relax, but don't fall asleep. Your physical body should be the only thing that falls asleep. 
Feel yourself in your astral body and not your physical body. Look around your room with just your astral eyes. Let the physical body to continue to relax and fall asleep. 
Notice that when you inhale, your astral being will become lighter. As you feel lighter, you will begin to float. You will first float above your physical body, and then you will float higher. 
At this point, stop thinking about your breath. Focus on the feel of your astral body. Identify with only your astral body and continue to float higher. Move so that you above your house and floating in the clouds.
What kinds of things do you see? You have now made it into the astral. Now, all you have to do is think of a place you want to travel to. Think about that place and you will instantly be transported there. If you don't have a particular place in mind, you can simply roam around your neighborhood. 
Once you want to return home, think about your bedroom. When you are back in your room, watch your physical body sleep. Move closer and enter it. Wiggle your toes and fingers and slowly open your eyes.


Third Eye
 : With this technique, you will need an open third eye. Through your third eye, you will separate your two bodies.

Lay down and relax. As your physical body falls asleep, your mind remains awake. Your spine should be straight so that your energy flow is not interrupted. 
Once you are feeling relaxed, start to focus on being only your astral body. Notice how you feel trapped inside of your physical body. Picture the glowing indigo light of your third eye and see it as a gateway. This is going to lead you into the astral.
Focus on your chakra and view it as a way to enter the astral realm. Move your astral body and leave your physical body through your third eye chakra. 
Make sure you don't allow yourself to become afraid of seeing your physical body laying there. The third eye chakra is the chakra that is the closest to the spirit world, so it is a great doorway into the astral realm.

All of these techniques can be used for astral travel. Pick the one that you find the easiest to do. There is no need to know how to use all of the techniques perfectly because you only need to use one each time. You can also adjust these techniques as well. There aren't any specific rules that you have to follow for astral travel. Most of the time, astral traveling will happen unintentionally where you become conscious of it once you have left your physical body. These techniques are helpful because you can intentionally travel and choose exactly where you want to go.
Helpful Hints
There are a few different things you can do to help make you more successful when you try to astral travel.
Relax
You won't be able to astral travel when you aren't relaxed. The less relaxed you are, the more attached you are to your physical body. It's important that you make sure your body is so relaxed that it is asleep and that your mind stays focused. When you start out, don't try to think of it as astral traveling. Try to focus on getting your body relaxed like you were just going to sleep.
Have an empty stomach
It is best to astral travel when you have an empty stomach. If you are full, your energy will be divided because your body needs the 
 energy to digest your food, so make sure you don't try this right after you have eaten. Make sure it has been at least two hours since you ate before you try astral traveling. A light snack is fine, but not a large meal. You need your energy for your travels.
Practice regularly
Just like with anything, it's important that you practice regularly. It's a good idea to practice this every night before you go to sleep. If you tend to always fall asleep and lose consciousness, then you may want to try this early each morning. Your body will already be rested and you will be less likely to fall asleep.
Don't expect anything
Expectations tend to ruin astral travel. Release your expectations. You shouldn't even expect to be successful. Expecting something will take away the energy that you need for your travels. It can also end up adding pressure, which isn't going to help you. Instead, try to really relax. While you may know what to expect when you do this, it is a better idea to forget all of this when you start your induction. Focus on what you need to do and forget everything else.
Psychic protection
This is not a requirement, but it's good to help alleviate any fear you may have and to add some extra protection. The following are some good ways to protect yourself.
Remove negative thoughts when traveling.
Sprinkle some saltwater on yourself before you start your travels. This will protect you from negative energies.
Place a circle of salt around your bed.
Picture a white ball of light around your body. This is shielding you 
 of negative energies.
Say a quick prayer before your travel, asking for protection.







Chapter 8: How to awaken kundalin
 i
Most strategies and activities are said to help you improve your well-being or reach your personal fulfillment. This makes it difficult to know what works for you really and what is deceptive or literally useless. However, a search of self-help literature shows hundreds of unfamiliar words, so that you can quickly shrug and move on. You have to remove your prana (or life force) from its constant emphasis on external world awareness if you want to awake your Kundalini. You need to find ways to isolate your senses from what's going on in your physical body because you can only reach the Kundalini's potent energy. As you may already learn from mindfulness or meditation, it can be difficult even for a moment to make such a change, no matter for long periods of time. But even a moment of success will start to shift your thoughts and focus! Through reality, the prana can become second nature in the right way. The good news is that there are small changes you make to wake up your Kundalini.
Here are some of the most powerful methods.
Focus On Your Breath
Anything that makes you focus on your breath allows you also to wake up to Kundalini. This means you are well on the path to tap into your Kundalini energies if you already have a daily meditation or awareness of the kind described above. Don't panic, though, if you are just beginning to figure out such strategies! After all, the shortest types are often the strongest. For starters, try focusing on deep breathing for just five minutes. Inhale through your nose and exhale through your chin, rather than through your lungs. Yoga (not only Kundalini yoga) is another wonderful meditation practice. Whether you are an expert or a new beginner, it can be useful to focus on yoga poses at the beginning of the end of the day. And just remember that you don't have to spend too much time on these exercises to change things.
Reject Negativity
Because you know even if you follow the law of attraction and manifestation, positivity is essential to achieving happiness. In fact, if you want to awaken the Kundalini, you must consciously resist negativity. Most of us are limited to unproductive thought patterns. 
 However, you are slowly developing new patterns by making a concerted attempt to develop a different way of viewing the world. Reframing is one of the best techniques to resist criticism. Whenever you talk about yourself or the world around you, encourage yourself to reword it more positively. "It is far too cold for a sprint today," for instance, "I have the whole afternoon to spend anything I want indoors." Something like "I didn't get the job because I am worthless" becomes more dramatic: "I haven't got this job because the right one comes in the corner."
Keep A Good Posture
There is a very close relationship between the physical body and the Kundalini awakening. It is particularly important to keep an eye on your posture and make changes when appropriate. If you have a fairly sedentary job that takes long hours on a screen, like most men, you may be likely to hunch with round shoulders. Likewise, fatigue can leave you with tight muscles, and low self-confidence will intentionally may your body. The most important thing you have to do is keep your back straight so that your back is long and tall. This not only allows you to wake up the kundalini but also strengthens the entire body, reducing chronic pain issues. When it's hard for you to first think about your posture, try to straighten your back a daily reminder. After a week or two, you will no longer need a reminder.
Access The Central Channel
You may not have learned before about the central point, but be certain that the measures to access it are relatively straightforward. Next, make sure you relax and breathe deeply while you are eight. Then concentrate on your tailbone until you feel a soft vibration. Close your eyes at this point and constantly sing the word "Vum." When you sing, remember the sound of vibration slowly up your spine. Adjust your singing, repeat the phrase "shum" over and over while you hear the waves travel across your muscles to fill the entire body and fill the whole body. Imagine a big bubble in your pelvic and abdominal region and fill it. Lets the air out of the ball slowly as if you keep it by the neck and softly remember everything within. More complex activities are given to reach the core channel, but the process begins. Hypnosis might also help you reach your main net! Self-hypnosis will help you relax, concentrate, and awaken your 
 kundalini energies beneath your spine. Seek inner peace and take control of your wellbeing with this hypnosis kundalini.
Use Visualization
Visualization techniques are powerful tools in all life fields and are also necessary if the Kundalini is to be awoken. In particular, when you look at Kundalini Yoga resources, you can find a recurring pattern of light visualizations. The Divine Light Invocation is one of the most common and significant, and it is simple to do, even if you're a novice. Start standing as straight as you can, stretching your feet to about the width of your shoulder. Next, close your eyes slowly and lift them up so that they face to the middle of your lower forehead. When you do, raise your arms and keep all your muscles close above your head. Say this, imagine yourself being bathed in bright white light: "Divine light makes me. God's love upholds me. Divine light surrounds me and encircles me. I'm rising into divine light all the time.
Activate Your Interests
While working on your role, it is not sufficient just to promote a Kundalini awakening to trigger your interests. It is also important to live a healthy, balanced life! Yet to get the strength of Kundalini inside you, it is important that you spend at least an hour a day on something you really enjoy. You may find it hard to overcome the burden of a society that says that you should spend any minute on productive activity, but participation is beneficial in your interests. What if you don't know where your interests lie anymore? Try listing 10-15 stuff you have wished to do, without any censorship. At least one thing you should start to learn, try, or focus on today is one of these. And if you don't think an attraction satisfying you anymore, just leave it without regret. A good life is important for your Kundalini's awakening.
Cut Out Distractions
Ultimately, we all spend our days of easily frustrating stuff. Our attention is drawn in hundreds of different directions at once, and for very long periods, we can find it hard to concentrate on one thing. But when we allow our minds to shift constantly, we focus externally in a way that refuses us proper access to our Kundalini's resources. Know, a new disengagement from external things is 
 needed to create room for a new kind of thought and feeling to emerge. To combat distractions, you have to take a hard look at your living room and activities in order to see what you can do without. Make your home and work smoother.
These forms can also contribute to making progress in your Kundalini practice:

Refine your diet:
 You're what you eat. If you want to awaken your limitless internal energy, use whole, balanced, and plant-based foods to help you exercise. It is important and can help you to decide your thought, mood, and overall health.

Move your body:
 Care and devotion are required to unlock your energy. This should be the same kind of love come from your body? Make sure that you push your body by exercise, whether it's a long walk, a sequence of stretches, or a fun team sport every day.

Be The Watcher:
 It seems like it's all going wrong these days. This is something that everybody feels. Rather than getting covered in negative emotions, identify and encourage their presence to pass. You will be happier (emotionally) and more able to concentrate on your Kundalini work.

Find Your Tribe:
 You subconsciously reflect the people and the environments around you. Choose to engage yourself in only the kindest, most helpful, honest, and most demanding men. Your quality of life will certainly improve when you get good energy.

Get a mentor:
 Whether it is a fellow yogi or a wise soul, consider someone with whom you can connect deeper. You might even want to share with them your Kundalini experience.

Chant, Chant, Chant
 : This may be uncommon for yogis practicing in silence, but chanting is a devotional ritual that makes the mood of Kundalini simpler. Find an instructor or something you feel confident practicing to see how chanting helps to make the practice happen.

Enable your interests
 : We dwell on things several times, and it is not because we enjoy them that we like them. Set aside an hour a day for activities that you feel connected to, be it painting, music, gardening, sports, or programming. Consider whatever it is that you have regular enjoyment.

Here and Now:

 As you go all day, please make an effort to be mindful of the present moment. Try to cut out international thoughts and focus on the task and the moment. Carefulness also allows you to practice Kundalini and can make you feel relaxed and rooted.

Go with The Flow
 : Micro-managing your life may seem attractive, but the constant preparation of daily life has liberation. See every morning as an experience you are ready to take part in. Don't freak out if the way you've planned your day doesn't go.

Affirmations:
 if you can be polite to all around you... but you, your kundalini practice (and your general health and happiness) will collapse. Take your time every day to remember your various strengths, gifts, and virtues.

Listen to music for your relaxation:
 listening to music or movements that calm your mind and body encourages a meditative state that can help you practice Kundalini. Music helps you to relax and tap into an intrinsic release of energy more easily.
Finally, think of unplugging from the internet every now and then or at least set up a browser extension which restricts your time on websites that encourage delays!







Chapter 9: Terminologie
 s
Kundalini - The Kundalini is located at the base of the spine. It is also referred to as shakti
 . It is the primal force. It is coiled like a serpent. However, it is not made of gross material matter, but of fine energy. Once it is awakened, it rises up through the chakras. It is reported to awaken and develop psychic abilities, as well as the feeling of bliss. Many spiritual gurus consider it a step towards enlightenment. Be careful with the power that awakening the Kundalini brings as you might become too focused on the powers that you miss your objective to attain a higher level of spirituality (enlightenment).
Chakras - Chakras are the energy centers of the body. Seven main chakras run along the spine. This is why when you meditate, it is advised that you keep your spine straight. This is to ensure the free flow of energy through the chakras. Chakras, also known as spinning wheels, act as the vital organs of the spiritual body. It is important to keep the chakras healthy if you want the physical body to be healthy.
Aura - The aura is an energy field that surrounds people, animals, plants, as well as objects. The color and shape of the aura reflect the state of mind and health of the subject. It is also worth noting that before illnesses manifest in the physical plane, they first appear in one's aura. 
Astral travel - Astral travel is when the astral body goes on a journey. Astral travel, also known as astral projection, is more common than you might think. Every night, when a person sleeps, they astral travel. The problem is that most people are not aware of what happens on their astral journey. When you learn to do astral travel, you train yourself to astral project conscious consciously. You also get to control what happens on your journey.
Prana - Prana is the all-pervading energy that exists everywhere. It is inside you and all around you. Some people even think that prana is God. It is worth noting that with the right knowledge, prana can be used for various purposes, such as for healing and empowerment. 
Third eye - The third eye refers to the ajna chakra. It is the chakra that is located between the eyebrows. This chakra is the seat of intuition and is the key to the power of clairvoyance. 
Clairvoyance - This refers to the psychic ability of clear seeing. It refers to the ability to see beyond what the physical eyes can perceive. 
Meditation - Meditation depends on the meaning that you give it. Some people see it merely as a way to de-stress. However, it should be noted that in awakening the Kundalini, as well as in achieving enlightenment, the practice of meditation is considered a must
 .
Chi - The term, chi, is the Chinese term for prana. It is the same as prana or energy.
Soft focus - Soft focus is often used as a way to see the aura. It is when you look at something using your peripheral vision.
Dry fasting - Dry fasting is fasting from solid foods and liquid, including water. When you go on a dry fast, you literally do not eat or drink anything at all. 
Mind's eye - The mind's eye or inner eye refers to what you see or visualize. It also refers to what you may perceive using your intuition. Many of the practices in this book require you to visualize something in your mind's eye. 
Psychic awareness - Psychic awareness refers to how aware you are off energies, as well as other psychic entities and influences. A common result of engaging in regular meditation is having increased psychic awareness.
Telekinesis - It refers to the ability to move objects using the power of the mind. It is divided into two: microkinesis and macrokinesis. Microkinesis refers to the ability to influence the outcome of random generators or random odds, such as a roll of a die or coin flip. Microkinesis is how most people understand what telekinesis is, and that is actually moving objects with the mind. 
Pyrokinesis - This is another kinesis ability and it refers to the peer to control fire. Hence, the term, pyro, which means fire.
Divination - Divination refers to the ability to predict the future. It is usually associated with the power of clairvoyance.
Pendulum - A pendulum refers to a weighted object that is suspended on a string or chain. It is normally used for divination. 







Conclusio
 n
Thank you for making it through to the end of Kundalini Awakening, let's hope it was informative and able to provide you with all of the tools you need to achieve your goals whatever they may be.  
The next step is to continue your practice and see where your path leads. The exercises in this book are rooted in an ancient and mysterious past of Indian culture. They literally could be practiced for years without finding an end. Even the simplest meditation exercise can be practiced for decades without losing its potency and power. This shows the immense amount of potential that humans have to transform their lives and empower themselves that these practices have to offer. 
The next step is to reaffirm every day that you are on your way to becoming a better, fuller you. Believe in yourself and your ability to make the changes necessary to realize your goals. Once you've removed the clutter from your mind, you will turn overthinking into focused achieving, each and every day. You may have heard many times over, "easier said than done." Well, you should be excited to learn how to do what you set your mind to do. You've wanted to make a change for a long time. Taking the steps to make your goals come to fruition is something many people never achieve.   
It is times like this, after having taken a big step forward in my life, when I begin to reflect on how far I've come. It is hard to appreciate your progress sometimes when you are in the heat of battle and struggling every day during the beginning, middle, or even near the end of your efforts. There is nothing better than stepping up onto that final rung and looking down to see all of those completed steps in your wake.   
Remember when you were sitting at square one, unable to free yourself from the chains of overthinking? I know it well—I've been there myself. It takes a great deal of courage to stand up and say, I'm ready to make a change. It saddens me to think that many people continue to overthink and overanalyze throughout their entire lives, missing out on the experiences and appreciation that a free mind can realize. It is easy to slip into the comfortable habits of mindless eating, checking a phone or tablet every few minutes, and going to 
 bed later and later until your system is all out of sorts. Sometimes, it seems too easy to give in and let what's easy overshadow what's worth working for. You don't have to be a slave to overthinking, and maybe it's possible for you to take what you've learned and help change lives around you.   
Perhaps you know someone who seems to be struggling with overthinking, stressing out about everyday challenges and stress just like you were at the beginning of your journey. Consider reaching out and sharing what you've learned. Nothing feels better than sharing new knowledge with someone who can use it to make the positive changes you've seen happen in yourself. Maybe it's a coworker, a spouse, or a close friend. Many people from different walks of life will benefit from the changes laid out in this book, so why not share your story!  









PSYCHIC EMPATH


Survival Guide for Empaths, Become a Healer Instead of Absorbing Negative Energies. Development, Telepathy, Healing Mediumship, Mindfulness, Meditation, Aura reading and Chakras
© Spiritual Awakening Academy








Introductio
 n

In psychology, empathy is a key component of being emotionally intelligent. In a world that is starting to appreciate emotional intelligence over the more traditional intelligence that is book smart, empathy counts as the main ingredient for improved social interactions. Empathy is defined in dictionaries and by psychologists as: the ability to understand and share in the thoughts and emotions of another person. In other terms, empathy entails putting yourself in another person's shoes so that you can understand where they are coming from and how they feel. It involves seeing the world from the perspective of another person so that you can appreciate their world, fears, struggles, and even joys much better.
Empathy is not the same thing as sympathy, even though most people will use the two terms interchangeably to refer to the same thing. While sympathy is mainly just pity, empathy involves going the extra step of trying to find a solution for someone's suffering. Sympathy says, "Oh, that's terrible, I feel so sorry for her" and then walks away, while empathy stays a bit longer in hopes that they can alleviate the pain at hand. Most human beings are born with the capacity to be empathetic. However, the extent to which this capacity is explored depends on the kind of nurturing that a person receives as they grow up. 
So far, empathy does sound like a good thing. In fact, the world would be a better place if all of us were empathetic towards each other. There would be less judgment and less resentment. The world would be friendlier and a safe place where people's feelings and thoughts would be given equal priority, and nobody would feel unseen or unheard. Unfortunately, we do not live in an idealistic world where everything is perfect and flawless. We live among people who are capable of empathy, and also among others who consider empathy a weak concept.  There is still another category of people who are completely incapable of being empathetic. 
In our day to day lives, we demonstrate the ability to be empathetic towards others when we set aside time and energy to commiserate with their suffering. Even when we are best-intentioned, there are instances when we might not act in ways that are empathetic 
 towards others. Other times, we might only feel some sympathy and then move along. This brings us to a slightly different category of people who demonstrate a more advanced form of empathy. These people are known as empaths. 
An empath differs from an empathetic person in this way: while empathetic people are able to relate with other people's thoughts and emotions, empaths actually feel these emotions and thoughts as though they were their own. An empathetic person might relate to the pain of a colleague and then go on with their life. An empath will usually wallow in this pain because they feel it as if it is their own. A psychic empath is able to pick up another person's pain without necessarily being told. Their psychic ability allows them to tune into the suffering of another person even when this may not be so obvious to those who rely on verbal and visual cues. 
There are different reasons why some people are empaths, while others only seem to experience moments when they are empathetic towards others. Nature is the first culprit in churning empaths. Some people are born with heightened sensitivity. You can see it in the way they respond to things, even when they are still small babies. They seem more alert and more attuned to their surroundings. The kind of nurturing that a person receives while they are growing up can also impact their development into an adult empath. If your sensitivity is honored for the gift that it is, you will likely grow up in the full glory of your empath self. On the other hand, experiencing trauma as a child has been shown to hinder a person's empathic abilities. Think of it this way —a child that is brought up in a caring and loving household has a better chance of becoming a caring and loving adult when she grows up. 
If you are a psychic empath, you might have a very hard time going through the day since you are constantly surrounded by all this pain and suffering that you are aware of. It is important to learn how to shield yourself from emotional, mental, and physical drain while at the same time helping those who need your help. However, you must learn how to tell the difference between those who genuinely need your help and those who are only trying to take advantage of you. 
In this book, you will learn everything you need to know to go from being a psychic empath to being a psychic empath warrior

 . A psychic empath warrior is one who harnesses their power to do good, instead of simply being at the mercy of their abilities and the energy of those around them. As a psychic warrior, you will have greater control over your emotions, and you will not go through life feeling overwhelmed and drained.  You will learn to recognize the qualities that set you apart from the average person, how to identify energy vampires, and how to protect yourself from situations that will drain your energy. If you have always struggled to understand why you feel things the way you do, this book will act as a handbook that will make everything clearer. 
The main objective of this book is to help you realize that what you have is a great gift that you can use to positively impacting the world and others while also taking good care of yourself.








Chapter 1: Understanding Psychic Empath
 s

What is an Empath?
An empath is a person with the special gift of perceiving the emotions and feelings of other people as though they were their own without even trying. They are naturally tuned in to the energies floating around them. If an empath walks into a room and sits next to a person who's quietly mourning, the empath will pick up on the sorrow and experience it as though it were their own. An empath who lacks awareness of their gift can be deeply conflicted, as they cannot tell apart their own feelings from those of others. 
Ask yourself the following questions to find out if you're an empath: 

Can you perceive people in some way? 
Do you feel people's emotions and mistake them as yours? 
Can you think along the same line as other people? 
Do your feelings change as soon as you meet a particular person? 
Do you sometimes wonder whether you're co-dependent, neurotic, or even crazy? 
Can you read peoples' minds?

It can be awesome having the ability to pick up on other people's energies, but on the downside, it can be a real struggle when the said energies are of the dark nature and especially if the empath in question knows nothing of their ability. 
Empaths are born, not made. Their abilities are genetic traits, inherent in their DNAs and are often passed through generations. This means being an empath is not something that you can learn. It's either you're an empath or not at all.
Being an empath means you're always open to process the energy and feelings of other people.
Empaths tend to openly feel and become more conscious about what is outside than what is within them. This can make empaths disregard their own particular needs. Empath are generally non-aggressive and non-violent individuals. Most of the time, they act as 
 the peacemaker. Any place or situation filled with chaos or disharmony creates an awkward, uncomfortable feeling in empaths.
In case they find themselves caught in the middle of an argument, they will strive to fix the issue as fast as possible, or avoid it altogether if they can. If any foul words or profane language is expressed in their defense, an empath is likely to resent his lack of discipline and self-control.
Empaths have great interest in a wide variety of music to match their numerous expressive temperaments. Others can be puzzled at how empaths can listen to one music genre and switch to something completely different within minutes. Empaths pay close attention to the lyrics of songs. Words have powerful, adverse effects on them, especially if the song is relevant to their current situation or recent experience. In such cases, it is advisable for an empath to listen to music with no accompanying lyrics to avoid creating havoc in their emotional state.
History of Psychic Empaths
Since prehistoric times, psychics played a notable role in human culture. They often held positions as priests, priestesses, seers and mystics in various religions prior to the inception of Christianity.
Many psychic seers can be found in the Bible, including Samuel, Gad and Amos. Samuel was the one who found the donkey of King Saul. Gad was King David's personal seer, while Amos was the seer commanded by Amaziah to escape Judah and practice his prophetic endeavors outside that land.

One of the most recognized names in ancient psychics is the Greek Oracle of Delphi. The Oracle wasn't a single person, but rather an office held by the cleverest woman in Delphi. She interpreted information directly from Apollo, the God of Light and Truth. Her visions were increased by the natural steams emanating from the hot springs in the Delphi area. In ancient Egypt, the well-known seers were the priests of Ra on Memphis. In Assyria, oracles were called
nabu
,
meaning "announce" or "to call."

During the Renaissance period in France, Nostradamus became a 
 famous name in prophesying. His prophesies are still well-recognized across the globe and have been on print consistently since they were first written.
In mid-1800s, when the planet Neptune was discovered (a planet that rules psychic energy), the Spiritualist Movement began and expanded. Many psychics flourished during that period, including Edgar Cayce, Daniel Dunglas Home, and Madame Blavatsky.
Psychic empaths have walked the Earth ever since the dawning of humankind's history. However, it was only during the New Age Awakening of the 1970's and 80's that empathic skills were recognized as being distinct from other psychics.
How Empaths Feel
Since empaths are highly sensitive to the different energies surrounding them, they often fall victim to inner conflict and tremendous stress. When an empath's empathetic nature is in full effect, he may experience abnormal nervousness or feel as if an electrical current is suddenly overpowering him. This is followed by an overflow of emotions.
Strong melancholic feelings may arise out of nowhere and engulf him. This can become confusing for the empath since he may not completely understand what's happening to him. He takes on those feelings as his and tries to formulate an explanation as to why he feels such unfounded emotions.
Because of this, it is no surprise that most empaths become terribly depressed at some point of their life. Depression may even be a recurring visitor for many of them. Besides negative emotions, empaths can also absorb other people's positive vibrations. However, this up-and-down phenomenon can create an emotional rollercoaster ride for the untrained, unaware and inexperienced empath.
Common Traits of an Empath 
As an empath, these are some traits that you're bound to display:
Highly sensitive
People keep on telling you that you're too sensitive. This is because what they say or do can affect you quite easily. You can read into 
 their unsaid messages when they talk or do something. This sensitivity can make you susceptible to things that don't hurt well-adjusted people. Your high sensitivity makes you give a lot of thought to what you do or say. This pattern always leads to self-inhibiting tendencies. You end up customizing yourself too much so that the world can fall in love with you. The habit of suppressing your true emotions comes with a cocktail of challenges.
Telepathic
Psychic empaths can transmit thought patterns from their minds to another person. Also, they can know the thoughts of other people no matter the distance between them. For instance, a psychic empath will instinctually know when either of their parents is sad or depressed, as they can share in the sadness deep within. A psychic empath could be eating ice cream one moment, and the next moment they sense something is wrong, and when they contact someone about whatever they have thought, it is normally the case. 
They have good luck
A psychic empath seems to be followed by good luck. They not only bring luck on themselves but also on other people. For instance, if a psychic empath meets with someone and exchanges greetings, that person will proceed to run into good luck throughout the day. If a psychic empath gives someone some money, chances are the person will run into more good fortune for the better part of that day or week. 
They hate conflict
The easiest way to make a psychic empath run away from you is to confront them or issue a threat. They love making peace - not warring. They are extremely turned off by the idea of having to fight as a way of righting a wrong. 
High sensory stimulation
The sensory nerves of a psychic empath are very active. For this reason, they tend to react to stimuli much quicker than the average person. A psychic empath can get overwhelmed too easily. For this reason, they tend to avoid places with too much noise or too much light -  anything on the extreme end. Psychic empaths are also good at detecting sensations that would be lost on the average person. 
 They can detect subtlest things about a place or person. 
Their instincts about people are on the money
Psychic empaths know by gut what someone is like. For this reason, if you're a bad person, you won't catch a psychic empath entirely off guard. They will know that you're a bad influence but somehow still give you the benefit of the doubt, and after you reveal your true colors, it will dawn on them that their first instincts were accurate. 
They have imaginary friends
A psychic empath is in contact with the spiritual world. They have even made friends with entities in the spiritual realm otherwise known as spirit guides. The spirit guides act as protectors for the psychic empath and reveal secrets and insights to them. Strangely enough, the psychic empath may derive more satisfaction from interacting with spirit guides than they ever would from interacting with regular people. 
They appear lonely
To the average observer, a psychic empath can be the loneliest person for they are always alone. However, psychic empaths hardly ever seem needy or emotionally unstable. They may lack human contact, but that doesn't automatically mean that they are lonely. They tend to have very active imaginations. The worlds that they have created in their minds are extremely fun-filled. But then again, there is a percentage of psychic empaths that crave human contact and are lonely. 
They have a past life
Psychic empaths are old souls who have existed someplace else before. Oddly enough, they have a faint recall of their past lives. A psychic empath will think back to their past life, and though the memory is not vivid, they have a somewhat basic understanding of what life was like in that world. 
Communicate with animals
A psychic empath seems to have the uncanny ability to communicate with animals. Maybe they will establish eye contact or touch the animal, and then the information starts flowing. Animals are completely at ease around psychic empaths
Loving and compassionate
Psychic empaths don't stay away from people because they think they are superior to them; they stay away because people overwhelm them. This doesn't mean that psychic empaths are incapable of expressing love. They express warmth and compassion to the people whom they have close ties with. The best part is that this is genuine compassion. Psychic empaths cannot possibly fake their love. 
Sleep issues
Psychic empaths battle an array of sleep-related problems. Their sleep problems probably began in early childhood. The issues may range from bed-wetting, nightmares, and even insomnia that have had a negative effect on their quality of life. 
Good at connecting dots
Psychic empaths are extremely creative, and they can piece together disjointed parts to form a whole. Their ability to connect dots enables them to find solutions to existential problems. If they develop their creative potential, they can end up becoming innovators or great artists. Many psychic empaths tend to obsess about connecting these dots so that when one piece is complete, they quickly start connecting the next set of dots. 
They have trouble letting go
Psychic empaths don't open their hearts at everyone trying to catch their interest. However, once they open their hearts, they tend to love with a ferocious will. For this reason, terminating a relationship with a psychic empath would be disastrous. They have trouble letting go after investing much of their emotions into the relationship. 
Soak up other peoples' energies
You could be having a fantastic day with your spirits high, and then you go to Starbucks and sit next to a family who unbeknownst to you just lost one of their members. Nothing is said. All are sipping at their coffee with quiet faces. Ever so slowly, the joy you first had begins to fade away, and in its place, sadness takes over. You have no reason to be sad, but you experience this sadness anyway. Soon, 
 the family gets up, leaves Starbucks, and then your sadness fades away. You had just absorbed their energies. 
Introverted
Being introverted is not the same as being shy. A shy person might loathe being alone and feel rejected for lack of human contact, but on the other hand, an introvert gets drained when they stay too long with other people, and they cherish being alone. A shy person has self-inhibiting tendencies, but an introvert has a strong sense of self and stays true to it. Empaths are more likely to be introverted than extroverted. They don't shun all human contact but prefer socializing on one-on-one terms, or within small groups. 
Highly intuitive
One of the most effective weapons in an empath's hands is their gut feeling. They have this ability to sniff out the true nature of a situation. This makes it a bit hard to play games with an empath. They will see right through your tricks. As an empath, if you meet someone, you tend to have a gut feeling of what that person is really like. You are always in tune with your surroundings and can tell when there's danger. This ability is one of the main advantages of being an empath because you're less likely to be taken advantage of.
Overwhelmed by relationships
Conventional relationships put emphasis on partners spending as much time together as possible. An empath cannot thrive in this kind of arrangement because they constantly pick up on their partner's emotions and mistake them as their own. This is not to say that empaths cannot form any relationships. However, the traditional arrangement of a relationship needs to be deconstructed. For instance, they can have a room of their own that they may retreat to when their urge to be alone kicks in, and also, their partners should be patient with them.
Take long to process emotions
The average person has a laser attention to their emotions. Whether sadness or joy, it kicks in suddenly. Their emotional reflexes are fast too. An empath takes the time to understand the emotions that they are currently feeling. For instance, if something terrible happens, the sadness won't register immediately. They will first try to process 
 the situation, going over the details time and again, and then the sadness will well up inside them. They can experience emotions in such a powerful way. Thus, whether it's sadness or joy, they feel it to the full.
Love nature
For most empaths, they are at their happiest when surrounded by nature. Whether it's the sunlight kissing their skin, the rain falling on them, or taking in a gulp of fresh air; no other activity restores their balance as being surrounded by the natural world. They feel a deep sense of connection with nature. When an empath is experiencing a tsunami of emotions, one of the restorative measures would be taking a stroll through an open area beneath the sky. 
Strong senses
An empath boasts of very developed senses. They can catch the slightest whiff of an odor, can see into the shadows, can hear the tiniest sound, and can feel the vibrations of various other things. These developed senses make them so good at noticing the small stuff. Empaths notice what would ordinarily escape the attention of most people. For this reason, they tend to flourish in careers that demand close attention and the exploration of the abstract. 
Generous
There isn't a more selfless person than an empath. They don't have to have something to help. They are willing to go the extra mile and be of help. For instance, when an empath comes across a street child and sees their suffering, it tugs at their heart. They not only want to give them some food but also find a way of removing them from the streets. The majority of the world doesn't care about street children and see them as an annoyance. We can assume that the empaths of the world play a critical role in helping street children and other people who are experiencing hardship. 
Creative
Empaths tend to be very creative. This is aided by the wealth of emotions that they are always experiencing. Their creative nature manifests itself in almost every aspect of their life — food, relationships, homes, and most importantly, career. An empath is likely to do well in a career in the arts. They have tremendous 
 potential when it comes to drawing, writing, singing, or making films. They tend to portray their emotions unambiguously and can capture the emotions of other people just as intended. 

Empath Categories

Geomantic empaths
 : These empaths are attuned to a certain environment or landscape. Geomantic empaths are connected to specific sites like buildings, lakes, oceans, and mountains. These empaths can feel the historical emotions of these sites. For instance, if an empath visits a site where people were slaughtered many years, they can still feel the sorrow. Empaths attach feelings to different environments so that each environment evokes certain emotions. Such empaths tend to carry souvenirs to remind them of various environments. 

Physical empaths
 : Also known as a medical empath, they can pick up on the condition of someone else's body. They would instinctively know what ails another person. In extreme cases, they can pick up on the symptoms so that they share in the pain of the other person. Physical empaths also have healing abilities. They tend to take careers in conventional or alternative medicine. Physical empaths are great at taking care of ailing people. Those who have ailments trust them instinctively because they can feel that they care. 

Emotional empaths
 : They are sensitive to the emotional energy floating around them. As an emotional empath, you will absorb the emotions of other people and think that they are yours. This can be deeply distressing if you're constantly around negative people. An emotional empath should increase their self-awareness so that they can tell apart their emotions from those of others. Emotional empaths tend to withdraw from other people so that they can spend time alone and recharge. An emotional empath should protect their energy by following various healing practices. 

Animal empaths
 : You have certainly seen someone in your neighborhood more interested in keeping company with animals than human beings. They have a certain pet or even various pets that mean the world to them. There's a high 
 likelihood that such a person is an animal empath. An animal empath feels a deep connection toward animals. They can sense what the animals want or feel and the animals love them back. The connection is so deep that they have a way of communicating with each other. An animal empath answers to their intense desire of connecting with animals by domesticating their animals of choice. Also, they tend to be passionate about animal rights and make contributions to funds that advance animal welfare. 

Plant empaths
 : A plant empath shares a deep connection with a certain plant or plants in general. The plant evokes certain emotions when they touch it. A plant empath can communicate with the plant and can know its condition. They like hanging out near the plant in a natural environment, bringing it into their house, or planting it in the garden. 

Precognitive empaths
 : Are you the type of person that can always tell the future? And this is not down to your future alone, but also the future of other unrelated people or events? You're certainly a precognitive empath. You tend to "see" things before they come to pass. Your visions are made manifest in various ways such as dreams or feelings. Having this ability to foresee the future is both rewarding and distressing. It can help you brace for the future, and at the same time, it can amplify your misery knowing the pain that awaits you. 

Psychometric empaths
 : This sort of empath has a deep connection to various physical objects. The physical objects arouse certain emotions in them. The objects could range from utensils, knives, jewelry, photos, etc., but they each awaken certain deep emotions when the person comes across them. For instance, if your dad handed down his knife to you and then died that same day, the knife could have a lot of sentimental value. Every time you come across such a knife, you would miss your dad terribly. 

Telepathic empath
 : A telepathic empath can know what is stored away in someone's mind. With a casual glance at that person, they can tell their unexpressed thoughts. This causes 
 the empath to have too much insight into people and situations. 


Components of Empathy
 


Getting Others 
 

Tune into enthusiastic signals. Listen well and focus on nonverbal correspondence, grabbing inconspicuous signals subliminally. Show affectability, and comprehend others' viewpoints. You can help other individuals when you comprehend those individuals' needs and sentiments. 

Creating Others 
 

Creating others means following up on their needs and concerns and helping them to create to their maximum capacity. Individuals with aptitudes here for the most part reward and commend others for their qualities and achievements, and give productive input intended to concentrate on the most proficient method to improve. 

Utilizing Diversity 
 

Utilizing decent variety means having the option to make and create openings through various types of individuals, perceiving and commending that we as a whole carry something else to the table. Utilizing decent variety doesn't imply that you treat everybody in the very same manner, yet that you tailor the manner in which you cooperate with others to meet with their requirements and emotions. 
Individuals with this expertise regard and relate well to everybody, paying little respect to their experience. When in doubt, they consider decent variety to be a chance, understanding that different groups work much superior to groups that are increasingly homogeneous. Individuals who are great at utilizing assorted variety likewise challenge narrow mindedness, inclination and stereotyping when they see it. 

Political Awareness 
 

Numerous individuals see 'political' aptitudes as manipulative, yet in its best sense, 'political' signifies detecting and reacting to a gathering's enthusiastic propensities and power connections. 
 Political mindfulness can assist people with navigating authoritative connections successfully, enabling them to accomplish where others may beforehand have failed. 







Chapter 2: Understanding Psychic Empath
 s
There are different kinds of empaths who specialize in specific types of psychic work. Geomancy is a skill in which the empath senses the energies and vibrations of the earth. You can use this skill in dousing, detecting water underground, or predicting upcoming bad weather. Psychometry is the psychic ability, which enables an empath to obtain impressions from various objects. This is sometimes used by the police in solving strange or violent crimes.
Clair cognizance is another unique skill in which the empath knows exactly what measures to take or actions to perform in any given situation, especially during an emergency or a crisis. They can act with self-assurance, peace and calmness, inspiring everyone around them to act in the same way.
Some empaths can also sense spirits and work with them, a psychic ability called mediumship. Some can heal by feeling other people's symptoms and help them by transmuting energies. Similarly, they can help others overcome emotional traumas. Some empaths can communicate with nature in general while others do the same with animals. Precognition is another rare gift in which psychic empaths can perceive events or disasters that are about to occur.
While empaths are endowed with significant abilities as mentioned above, they often pay a high price for these. Often, they are being judged and misunderstood. Sometimes, they also receive derogative, even contemptuous, remarks for their declarations. Empaths can be particularly sensitive of their environment, causing them to acquire physical up-sets and strange allergies that cannot be diagnosed by regular medical practitioners.
Although their talents and abilities are truly significant, they are not all-knowing. Their skills may not work at optimum levels all the time, nor can they heal all ills and diseases of mankind.
History of Psychic Empath
 s
Since prehistoric times, psychics played a notable role in human culture. They often hold positions as priests, priestesses, seers and mystics in various religions prior to the inception of Christianity.
Many psychic seers can be found in the Bible, including Samuel, Gad and Amos. Samuel was the one who found the donkey of King Saul. 
 Gad was King David's personal seer, while Amos was the seer commanded by Amaziah to escape Judah and practice his prophetic endeavors outside that land.
One of the most recognized names in ancient psychics is the Greek Oracle of Delphi. It wasn't an actual person, but rather an office convened by the cleverest woman in Delphi. She interpreted information directly from Apollo, the God of Light and Truth. Her visions were increased by the natural steams emanating from the hot springs in the Delphi area. In ancient Egypt, the well-known seers were the priests of Ra on Memphis. In Assyria, oracles were called nabu
 , meaning "announce" or "to call."
During the Renaissance period in France, Nostradamus became a famous name in prophesying. His prophesies are still well-recognized across the globe and have been on print consistently since they were first written.
In mid-1800s, when the planet Neptune was discovered (a discovery that rules psychics), the Spiritualist Movement began and expanded. Many psychics flourished during that period, including Edgar Cayce, Daniel Dunglas Home, and Madame Blavatsky.
Psychic empaths have walked the Earth ever since the dawning of humankind's history. However, it was only during the New Age Awakening of the 70s and 80s that empathic skills were recognized as being distinct from other psychics.
How Empaths Fee
 l
Since empaths are highly sensitive to the different energies surrounding them, they often fall victim to inner conflict and tremendous stress. When an empath's empathetic nature is in full effect, he may experience abnormal nervousness or feel as if an electrical current is suddenly overpowering him. This is followed by an overflow of emotions.
Strong melancholic feelings may arise out of nowhere and engulf him. This can become confusing for the empath since he may not completely understand what's happening to him. He takes on those feelings as his own and tries to formulate an explanation as to why he feels such unfounded emotions.
Because of this, it is no surprise that most empaths become terribly 
 depressed at some point of their life. Depression may even be a recurring visitor for many of them. Besides negative emotions, empaths can also absorb other people's positive vibrations. However, this up-and-down phenomenon can create an emotional rollercoaster ride for the untrained, unaware and inexperienced empath.
How Empaths Obtain Informatio
 n
The true mechanisms of psychic/empathic abilities are still unknown. Numerous theories have been made in an attempt to explain such mechanisms, but all of it were mere matters of conjecture. Not all empaths possess only one ability. Some can obtain information using multiple psychic skills that work in unison to create one "mega" psychic ability.
For instance, an empath may use his psychometric abilities to obtain information by simply touching a person or an object. Then, his empathic ability processes that information to induce feelings. Looking beyond those two psychic abilities, the empath may also possess strong clairaudience, clairvoyance, and other skills that facilitate the processing of all the information he is receiving.
It can be difficult for a psychic empath to find ways to control the information he receives until he stops to evaluate his individual processes and determine if he is operating only on empathic abilities or a set of abilities. Testing oneself on each potential ability requires a great deal of patience and time. However, once the empath has successfully established a baseline, it will be much easier to comprehend how his individual psychic ability is related and how his combined abilities function and interact.







Chapter 3: Empaths and Spiritual Hypersensitivit
 y
Empaths often suffer from spiritual based hypersensitivity; the symptoms include:

Your environment causes you to feel overwhelmed
Sounds are too loud, even if made at a normal range
You constantly feel the feelings of others

This type of energetic overwhelm is nothing new; the spiritual community has been dealing with it for many years. As more and more empaths choose to ignore their gift, they are becoming less connected with the universe, which has led to an increase in spiritual based hypersensitivity. Oversensitivity to people's energy and noise is a common reaction to energy acceleration, as you ascend to higher heights in your spiritual development, you should expect to experience this. When you begin to accelerate in the spiritual realm, you may feel like a radio signal picking up a million signals at once. When there is a shift in spiritual vibration, your sense of intuition and your emphatic channels are open causing a heightened awareness of the thoughts and feelings of those around you. Spiritual hypersensitivity can manifest physically causing third eye dizziness, hypersensitivity to energy, odors, light and noise.
Metaphysics believes that the body is a vehicle for the spirit, the body is not who we are; our person is carried in our spirit. Wayne Dyer states that we are spiritual beings living in a physical world. Everything that happens in the physical first happens in the realm of the spirit; therefore, if there is an imbalance in your spirit it will manifest through your physical body. Metaphysical wellness counselors always address the spiritual aspects of healing before focusing on the physical, and it is spiritual alignment that cures the physical ailments.
How to Cope With Spiritual Hypersensitivit
 y
When the body is overwhelmed physically, emotionally or mentally, the fight or flight syndrome is activated and breathing becomes shallow. When you begin to experience a change in your breathing 
 pattern, you should immediately start practicing conscious breathing. This is where you focus your attention on your breath, which will slow down your nervous system and allow you to relax. Breathe slowly, deeply and in a rhythm at the same time as focusing your mind on being able to relax in the situation that you are in. You should always take a temporary retreat from any stressful situation such as family or work-related conflicts. Excusing yourself to the bathroom is a good way to do this. This will allow you to get away from the negative energy, practice your breathing techniques and renew yourself.
There are also several spiritual healing tools that you can use
 :
Praye
 r
Depending on what you believe in, prayer can always bring comfort in an overwhelming situation. One of the most talked about and effective prayers is the H'oponopono prayer.
So how can you heal yourself with H'oponopono? There are four steps to the concept:


Repent:
 Say you are sorry for the part that you have played in the things you perceive as evil or problematic that are surrounding you. As an empath you can say that you are sorry for the pain that the people you have met recently are experiencing. Whatever you feel responsible for, say you are sorry for it; feel the remorse and mean it.

Ask for Forgiveness:
 You are probably wondering, "Well, who am I asking?" We all have our different belief systems. The majority of us and especially empaths believe in some kind of higher power and so that is who you ask to forgive you.

Gratitude:
 Say thank you; there is so much power in gratitude. If you take your focus off the negative, you will find that you have so many things to be thankful for. Say thank you that you woke up this morning. Say thank you that you have eyes to see, a nose to smell, legs to walk on, that your internal organs are all in working order. Find something to say thank 
 you for and say it continuously.

Love:
 Love is the most powerful force in the universe; saying the words, "I love you" over and over again will bring love into your life. You can say I love you to your cat, your house, your car, the sky, the trees! Whatever you feel love towards, say it.

Wate
 r
Water has extraordinary balancing and healing properties during times of hypersensitivity. When consumed with consciousness, it provides inner alignment. You can balance the surrounding energy by putting a drop of water on your third eye area. When you apply water that you have energized, it leads to even more powerful results. You can energize water by praying over it, or putting a word on the bottle with the intention of infusing the words frequency into the bottle. Words such as healing, calmness, and peace work well.
Mindfulnes
 s
This technique can pull calming energy into the body. Focus on your breath at the same time as looking at something beautiful like a rose, the sun or the sky. You can even focus on the palm of your hands as if this is the first time you have seen them. You can redirect the attention you are paying to your feelings by focusing on something visual.







Essential Oil
 s
Essential oils have a calming effect and can greatly improve the anxiety associated with spiritual hypersensitivity. The American College of Healthcare Sciences conducted a study in 2014, in which 58 hospice patients were given a daily hand massage for one week using a blend of essential oils. The oil blend was made up of lavender, frankincense and bergamot. All patients reported less depression and pain as a result of the essential oil massages. The study concluded that essential oil blend aromatherapy massages were more effective for depression and pain management than massage alone.
The following are some of the best oils for treating anxiety:
Lavende
 r
Lavender oil has a relaxing and calming effect; it restores the nervous system, provides inner peace, better sleep, causes a reduction in restlessness, panic attacks, irritability and general nervous tension. There have been several clinical studies proving that inhaling lavender causes an immediate reduction in anxiety and stress. One study discovered that taking lavender oil capsules orally led to an increase in heart rate variation in comparison to the placebo while watching a film that caused anxiety. The study concluded that lavender had an anxiolytic effect, which means that it has the ability to inhibit anxiety.
Other studies have concluded that lavender has the ability to reduce anxiety in patients having coronary artery bypass surgery and in patients who are afraid of the dentist.
Ros
 e
Rose alleviates depression, anxiety, grieving, shock and panic attacks. The Iranian Red Crescent Medical Journal published a study in which a group of women experiencing their first pregnancy inhaled rose oil for 10 minutes at the same time as having a footbath. A second group of women experiencing pregnancy for the first time was also given the footbath but without the rose oil inhalation. The results discovered that a footbath combined with aromatherapy caused a reduction in anxiety in nulliparous (a woman that has not 
 had any children yet) women in the active phase.
Chamomil
 e
Chamomile oil is known for its calming effect and its ability to produce inner peace, reduce worry, anxiety, over-thinking and irritability. The University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine conducted an explorative study and found that it contains medicinal anti-depressant properties. The National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health also found that chamomile capsules have the ability to reduce anxiety related symptoms.
Frankincens
 e
Frankincense oil is great for treating anxiety and depression due to its tranquil energy and calming effects. It also helps you focus, quiet the mind and deepen meditation. A Keimyung University study in Korea found that a combination of lavender, frankincense and bergamot reduced pain and depression in hospice patients suffering from terminal cancer.

How to Use Essential Oils for Hypersensitivit
 y
Essential oils are either ingested, applied topically or used in aromatherapy. Here are some suggestions for their usage:
Aromatherap
 y
Aromatherapy is a very popular remedy for anxiety because of the human ability to process information through smell; it can trigger a very powerful emotional response. There is a region in the brain called the limbic system that controls memory recall and emotional processing. Inhaling the scent of essential oils stimulates a mental response in the brain's limbic system, which regulates stress and calming responses such as the production of hormones, blood pressure and breathing patterns. You can use the oils in the bath, a hot water vapor, direct inhalation, a humidifier or vaporizer, cologne, perfume, a vent or aromatherapy diffusers.
Oral Applicatio
 n
You can consume the majority of essential oils orally. However, it is essential that the oils you use are safe and pure. The majority of commercialized oils have been blended with synthetics or diluted with other substances making them unsafe for ingesting. The most 
 effective method for consuming essential oils is to combine a drop of oil with a teaspoon of honey or drop the oil into a glass of water. You can also add a couple of drops to the food you are cooking. You can place a couple of drops under your tongue. This is particularly beneficial because the blood capillaries are located under the tongue near the surface of the tissue, which allows the oil to quickly absorb into the bloodstream and travel to the area of the body where it is required. You can also take essential oils in capsule form.
Topical Applicatio
 n
Topical application is the process of placing essential oils on the skin, nails, teeth, hair or mucous membranes of the body. The oils are quickly absorbed by the skin. Due to the strength of the oils, it is essential that you dilute or blend them with a carrier oil such as coconut, avocado, jojoba, or sweet almond oil. You can apply the blended mixture directly to the affected area, around the rims of the ears, the soles of the feet, in the bath, through a warm compress, or through a massage.







Chapter 4: 
 The Benefits of Developing Your Intuition and Psychic Abilities
If life is a resume, then psychic abilities can be considered valuable points in it. Even so, it's not their existence that makes them important, but the fact that you can help other people by using them. It is like having a beautiful horse, one of a kind, but savage, that can't be ridden. That horse becomes truly special when you succeed in domesticating it and start using it for your purposes. 
Thus, having and developing your psychic abilities and your intuition can have numerous advantages and benefits as listed below.

The sensation of pressure disappears
 

If you learn how to develop your "third eye," situated between your eyebrows, you will be able to pick up energetic signals, and your chakras (each of the seven centers of spiritual power in the human body) will open up. This way, you will instantly lose the pressure and be more relaxed. It is the same with going to a spa where they rub your forehead and you can relax and let go of your stress and problems. The fact that evil is a part of our world, doesn't mean that all the energies are negative. By absorbing only the good energy, you motivate your brain to think of positive thoughts and eliminate the pressure within. 
The connection with the spirits
Your stronger connection with the spiritual world helps you develop your mediumship. Besides the fact that you can maintain a connection with your deceased loved ones, you will also be able to help other people connect with theirs. Even a person with no psychic skills can stay in touch with his or her "angels." You, of course, never want your family members and close friends to die, but that is the order of things. Connecting with spirits is a good alternative for those who can't let go of their relationships with their late loved ones and still want to maintain them. Sometimes this is not okay, considering the spirits were once humans too and don't like to be bothered at any hour. So, nevertheless, you need to respect them.
Learning and spirituality
After you have your psychic awakening, you will want to learn more about this world. As you open up, you want to read and know as much as possible and walk a more spiritual path. The good news is that there are plenty of learning resources that you can use. Thousands of articles and magazines deal with this subject and people all over the world have written stories about their psychic experiences, paranormal traditions in each country, mystic rituals, and ways to become a better psychic and person.
Heightened sensitivity of your physical senses
If you realize that your hearing is heightened and your vision is clearer, it means that your physical senses are getting stronger. It is all about meditation. The more you let go of the material world, the better you see the world around you and realize what is really important to you. Finding peace with your inner self is a rule for having a better and more balanced life. Your senses will never lie to you, so if you feel that they're accurate, it is clear that your mentality is changing in a good way. 
Intuition
It might be a little frightening to have the sensation that something is about to happen, but a developed intuition is a perfectly normal thing. Even Albert Einstein believed in intuition. It is a known fact that women have sharper intuition than men. The explanation comes from the fact that ladies pay more attention to details, are more sensitive, and have tighter relationships with their loved ones. Their sensorial fields detect the negative energies more easily. Animals have highly developed intuition too, especially the ones crawling (lizards, snakes), as well as rodents. A female rat senses a calamity, an earthquake or a flood, way before it happens, so she has time to move her babies to a safe place. So, in the end, intuition is useful in helping you foresee the bad and avoid it, when possible.
Miles away from negativity
You may find that you can easily pick up on the emotions of people around you, but there is nothing bad about being empathic. In fact, nowadays empathy and common decency are the values that we need the most, the lack of which causes us stress and other physical 
 problems. Also, because your sensitivity is heightened, you might feel drained in the presence of some people. Usually, these people are charged with negative energy, so try to stay away from them as much as possible. 
Finding your psychic abilities and helping them develop within you is like a morning hike in the mountains. You start the journey feeling like you can do it, you climb higher and higher, and you don't feel your energy drained, but continuously rising, and in the end you arrive at the mountain top. You look back at the road you just finished and you are surprised at your own strength. You knew you had it in you, but you never thought you'd get here.
The desire to eat healthier food
Once you go through long meditation hours and yoga breathing classes, you will decide it is time for you to start having a healthier lifestyle altogether. The alimentation is, of course, part of it. Just as you decided to eliminate the negative energies from your body and mind, you decide it's time for your stomach to be cleansed and filled up with things that are good for you. Vegetables and fruits are always a good idea, but no matter what you choose to eat during your diet, try to keep a balance between the physical and psychical elements.
Making new friends
Throughout this entire period, your soul will grow and you might realize that some of your old friends have remained at the same non-developed level as before. You will feel sad for leaving them behind, but it's the best thing you can do if you don't want them to drag you down. The only thing you can do is and pray for their own good. After that, you can start imagining the new friends the Universe has in store for you. Hopefully, they will be people with the same abilities as you and will understand and motivate you to develop as a psychic more and more.







Chapter 5: The Psychology behind Empath
 s
Empaths are typically lacking something in their lives, such as attention, love, sense of belonging, and/or affection; thus, they want others to have what they are lacking in hopes of getting it in return. Even the most depressed and drained empaths will do whatever necessary to help lift up others.
Science also plays a role. Dr. Judith Orloff (2017) explains that there are five scientific explanations that give more insight into empathy.

The mirror neuron system
Electromagnetic fields
Emotional contagion
Increased dopamine sensitivity
Synesthesia


The mirror neuron system.
 It has been found that there are cells in the brain that are directly responsible for compassion. Mirror neurons enable empaths to mirror others' emotions and feelings. For instance, if someone is sad, empaths will be sad as well. On the other hand, narcissists, sociopaths, and psychopaths are said to be empathy-deficient. They basically lack the ability to have empathy for anyone. These individuals are like this because their mirror neuron system is underactive. Mirror neurons are typically triggered by an event that occurs to someone else. Those who lack mirror neurons will not feel any emotions for us if we are sad, hurt, or happy.

Electromagnetic fields.
 Another scientific finding that has been found is that the heart and brain create electromagnetic fields with the body. The fields are transmitters of people's emotions and thoughts. Empaths can be sensitive to this input, and it will cause them to become overwhelmed and anxious over it. The sun and earth also have an effect on emotional responses.

Emotional contagion.
 When we are able to feel everyone else's emotions and feelings around us, we need to pay attention to the people we hang around with. Do not spend time with people who drag down your positive energy. As an empath, it is extremely easy to feel as others do. For instance, it is said that someone has 
 empathy if they catch someone else's yawn. That is considered an emotional contagion. When one person yawns, many others will do the same. Most people have some sort of contagion sense, such as if a baby cries, the rest of the babies in the nursery cry as well. The ability to catch other people's moods is very important when it comes to relationships and understanding how the other might be feeling at any given time. In order for empaths to block out everyone's bad emotions, surround yourself with those who uplift you instead.

Increased dopamine sensitivity.
 Dopamine is what causes people to react with a pleasure response. Introverted empaths actually need less dopamine to feel happy, hence why they enjoy being alone. Dopamine sensitivity is usually found more so in introverts, while extroverts need to have higher levels of it in order to feel happy. Extroverts actually love the stimulation from going to parties, and they crave the dopamine rush.

Synesthesia.
 Those who see colors when they listen to music have synesthesia. This is considered a neurological condition where there are two senses that are paired together in the brain. This is also called mirror-touch synesthesia, in which people can feel the emotions in their bodies as if they were theirs.
Empathy will get us through many situations and will allow us to respect others even if we disagree with them. It is good to have an open heart, but watch out for those who will try to take advantage of you.
The Shamanic and Mystical Understanding of Being an Empat
 h

Shamanism and mysticism are two completely different practices. They have
 different values, either that of empowerment or surrender. Whether or not you are drawn to one or the other will be the deciding factor of what spiritual needs, desires, or interests you are looking to fulfill.
Shamanic
Let's first learn what the shamanic point of view is. The belief is that all of humanity is connected to one another, and this is considered the collective unconscious. The shamanic way is to feel empowered. 
 Empaths tend to follow the shamanic path as they are able to connect to anything around them at any given time. Empaths have the gift of connection, the gift that allows us to feel connected to people around us. In early May of 2004, Mystic Familiar took part in a worldwide medicine wheel meditation. This included an actual shamanic medicine wheel that spread across 600 miles of Northwestern United States. The purpose of the medicine wheel was to help relieve people of negative energies from ourselves and others around us. The goal is to be reactive in the connectivity to others.
Shamanic practices are ways to heal the earth, heal oneself or others, channeling and mediumship, as well as entering a state of trance for wisdom. This is done to heal a connection to a higher power or a spiritual entity. This can be done with stones, plants, sounds and songs, flowers, herbs, and crystals.
There are many signs that you might be a shaman, but the top five consist of the following:

Your ancestors were healers as well.
You have a strong connection with nature.
You do not fit in with others.
You are able to "read" people.
You feel as though you are called upon to help and heal others.


Your ancestors were healers as well.
 Chances are, if any of your ancestors were healers, you may also have that gift. There are cultures that believe that this gift is passed down from generation to generation.

You have a strong connection with nature.
 Shaman recognizes that everything is interconnected with one another. The relationship between us and nature is seen as mutually dependent as it nurtures us and we nurture it. We need one another in order to survive, so it is best to nurture both.

You do not fit in with others.
 Most cultures have seen shamans as outsiders or different. Shamans have unique gifts and sensitivities, and because of that, they do not fit into a typical society. They do act as a bridge between the higher world and those on this level, and 
 they are respected for the knowledge and wisdom that they share. Shamans focus on empowerment and have a way to help guide their lives as well as the lives of others.

You are able to "read" people.
 When you "read" people, it means that you can tell what their character is just by looking at them in the eye. You can also tell if they are battling an illness or a spiritual issue that they must overcome.

You feel as though you are called upon to help and heal others.
 A shaman does not like to see suffering. When they do, they have a very strong urge to heal it. They want to reestablish what harmony was lost during the time of suffering and want all aspects to connect together in peace. The desire to help, heal, and assist others in regaining peace and harmony in their lives is at the forefront of any shaman's mind. If they can help, they will.
Mystic
The top five signs that you may be a mystic include the following:

You are not materialistic.
You do not need to follow the norms of society.
You prefer to be alone.
You can see right through people.
You are not afraid of the future.


You are not materialistic.
 You do not believe in wasting money on material items, such as brand-name clothing, fancy cars, big homes, or the most recent electronics. You basically think that people who parade around with materialistic items are showing how shallow they can be.

You do not need to follow the norms of society.
 You do not need any validation in order to be who you are. You seek validation from within yourself and do not follow along with anyone just to fit in.

You prefer to be alone.
 You are always seeking a higher understanding of life and those around you. You enjoy your alone time as it allows you to reflect on what is going on within you as well as around you.

You can see right through people.
 If you are just meeting and 
 conversing with someone for the first time, they may embellish stories about themselves. You will recognize that right away and will withdraw from being around those types.

You are not afraid of the future.
 Mystic individuals tend to see change as an opportunity to grow and obtain new opportunities. They do not fear the future; they embrace the changes that occur and keep moving forward.
Mystics tend to believe in attaining an insight into human mysteries. They generally believe that we are interconnected with nature and understand the preservation of all around us in order for each to survive. If one portion of the connection is broken, all the others that are connected will suffer.
How to Find Peace Living as an Empat
 h
Being an empath can be exhausting and draining, so you need to find a way that works for you that will help you regain your peace. There are a few ways to help with this, such as the following:

Centering
Grounding
Shielding


Centering.
 This is a great way to release stress from stimulation. It is important to become aware of your physical and energy bodies and focus on maintaining that awareness. This is the first step toward spells, meditation, and praying. It will help make you aware of what emotional items belong to you and what do not.

Grounding.
 A way to think of grounding is to become one with the earth. Even if you are using the floor in a building, you will still be able to release or regain energies. The most important thing is to get as low to the floor or ground as you can. Some sit Indian-style on the floor of their office in order to ground themselves. It is important to know that there are different ways that people ground themselves in order to maintain peace for themselves. Some people sit on the floor and hold on to a stone. They focus on how the stone feels to relax their minds and help meditate to release energy and regain their peace.

Shielding.
 In order to block out unwanted energies, it is best to 
 shield them so you are not overwhelmed with numerous energies. Most experienced empath use a shield that is called semipermeable. With these types of shields, you are not completely closed off, but at the same time, you are not constantly taking in energy in either. When you become experienced with shielding, you will find that you are able to function more efficiently due to more positive energy.
Centering, grounding, and shielding are ways to manipulate your own energy and turn it into something positive. These are all related to one another and can be performed together or separately. "Empathy is a psychic/energetic phenomenon, and psychic/energetic solutions are one of the most direct ways to manage it". The practices may be difficult to learn at first; however, they are worth it in the end to maintain your own peace.
Essential Oil Recipes for Anxiet
 y
Anxiety is a real deal for many empaths, and it can become so overwhelming that there have to be many options to try to decrease the anxiety level or keep it at bay. "While the actual results of essentials oils like doTERRA and Young Living and their ability to cure most common ailments is widely debated, it doesn't stop people from incorporating these oils into their daily life". First, let's see which oils are best to combat anxiety:

Lavender
Rose
Chamomile
Ylang-ylang
Frankincense

Surely, there are more, but those seem to be the most popular that everyone has heard of. Just the scents alone may help combat your anxiety, but if you are having a large bout of it, it is best to try some combinations.
Here are the top five essential oil recipes for anxiety:
Lavender Neck Ru
 b
One of the most popular recipes is the lavender neck rub.
Ingredients:
●       

 3 drops of pure lavender
●       
 1 teaspoon fractionated coconut oil or almond oil
Directions:

Blend the lavender and coconut or almond oil in a small bowl.
Spread the combination on your neck for instant relief of anxiety.
You can use this during the day when you find yourself getting stressed or consistently before bed.

Calming Essential Oi
 l
This recipe can be used to alleviate all anxiety symptoms. It can be used as perfume. You can put it in a vial with a rollerball top and rub it on your skin, or it can be put in a diffuser.
Ingredients:
●       
 2 drops germanium
●       
 2 drops clary sage
●       
 1 drop patchouli
●       
 1 drop ylang-ylang
Directions:

You have to personalize the application to your own preferences, such as whether or not it will be in a rollerball applicator or through a diffuser. If you are using the rollerball method, add 30 drops of the combination into a 10 ml vial, then rub it on your wrists, feet, and neck in order to alleviate anxiety.
If you prefer to use this combination through the diffuser, just add the blend to the diffuser pad, and you will sense the aroma to calm down. This is best used before bed or if you prefer on the go when you feel your anxiety getting to heightened levels.

Anxiety Blend #
 1
This recipe will tame anyone's anxiety when it shows its ugly head. Once you get this going, take a couple of deep breaths, and you will be as calm as a cucumber.
Ingredients:
●       
 2 drops cedarwood oil
●       
 2 drops wild orange oil
●       
 1 drop ylang-ylang oil
●       
 1 drop patchouli oil
Directions:

Combine the ingredients in a small bowl and add to the diffuser pad. This blend works better in a diffuser so you can escape with the natural scent and defeat any anxiety you may have had. This is best administered 30 minutes to one hour prior to going to bed.

Anxiety Blend #
 2
This blend will soothe muscles throughout the body, creating an amazing sense of relaxation, alleviating any tension or anxiety.
Ingredients:
●       
 2 drops bergamot oil
●       
 2 drops clary sage oil
●       
 1 drop lavender oil
Directions:

Mix the ingredients together in a small bowl until they are fully blended. Place the combination in the diffuser as this blend is best received via aromatherapy. Utilize as much as you need until you feel as calm and relaxed as you want to be.

Anxiety Blend #
 3
This is a natural wood-type aroma, so if you find that you are most relaxed when you are in nature, this would be the best for you to try.
Ingredients:
●       
 2 drops Roman chamomile oil
●       
 2 drops petitgrain oil
●       
 1 drop atlas cedarwood oil
Directions:

This blend is best in the diffuser, used as an aromatherapy. Combine the ingredients in a small bowl until they are fully blended together. This scent can be spread throughout the room in order to feel relaxed and calm. Another way you can utilize this is by placing your face over the bowl and breathing deeply until your level of calm is reached.

Essential oil recipes can be used in a few different ways, such as the diffuser, the rollerball perfume, or deep breathing over the bowl with the mixture. Each of these ways, with the combination of ingredients, will create an aroma-filled environment so you can bring your anxiety level down when you need it most. This may be combined when you are unwinding at the end of the day, reading your book, and deep breathing in the calming aroma. All in all, it cannot hurt to give this a try, especially when trying to maintain your anxiety levels from day-to-day emotions.







Chapter 6: The Difference Between Empaths and Highly Sensitive Peopl
 e
Though highly sensitive people and empaths almost seem to read from the same script, there are actually some differences between the two. What you must first understand is that being a highly sensitive person or an empath is not mutually exclusive. You can be both of them at the same time. The following are some differences between highly sensitive people and empaths:
Highly sensitive people take longer to wind down and restore their energy than empaths
Both empaths and highly sensitive people tend to get overstimulated after spending the day mixing with other people. While empaths recover from the overstimulation much quicker, highly sensitive people need much more time to recover from the overstimulation. For this reason, a highly sensitive person will seclude themselves much longer than the empath. Highly sensitive people, as the name suggests, tend to dwell too much on their sensory experiences. Their brains are wired in such peculiar ways to listen for certain keywords. 
A highly sensitive person usually has a number of insecurities that make them incredibly self-conscious. It doesn't matter how perfect they seem to the average person, but once this insecurity creeps up on the said person, then it can be quite hard to overcome the insecurity. For instance, if someone grew up feeling ugly, they might internalize this feeling to the extent that no one will help them see themselves in a different light. When that person goes out and realizes people are giving them stares, they will automatically think that people are analyzing their looks and finding them ugly. 
This will set off the alarm in their head about how ugly they are and what follows is a streak of obsessive thoughts. When a person is extremely sensitive, they tend to be sensitive about virtually everything. When they move from one concern, they will immediately find something else to stress about. On the other hand, empaths are sensitive, yes, but they are sensitive to the energies floating around them. This means that they stop feeling terrible once the source of their distress moves away from them. For this reason, 
 after a day of mingling with people, empaths are in a far much better position to restore their energy than highly sensitive people. 
Highly sensitive people are introverts whereas empaths can be either introverts or extroverts
For both highly sensitive people and empaths, the commonest personality spectrum that they share is that of introversion. Highly sensitive people are exclusively introverts whereas empaths - though a majority of them are introverts - could just as well be extroverted. To understand why a highly sensitive person has no chance of ever being an extrovert, you have to understand how their mind works. A highly sensitive person has beliefs in their mind that they keep looking for supporting evidence. Due to their extremely sensitive nature, they keep misreading what people meant. For instance, if a lecturer attends a session and keeps focusing his gaze on a certain highly sensitive girl, the girl might think that something is wrong with them, but unbeknownst to them, the lecturer actually finds them attractive to look at. 
So, the girl will obsess about everything they think is wrong with them and this cycle of thought is absolutely draining. Ultimately, they will have to retire into some quiet place to regain their composure and energy. They cannot do without having to retreat into their caves - the classic introvert tendency. On the other hand, an empath plays the role of an emotional sponge. They tend to pick up on the vibrations of the people around them. If they are around good people, they feel good, and if they are around bad people, they start feeling bad themselves. This can also drive them to seek solitude. Except that there are empowered empaths who understand the condition that they struggle with. 
An extroverted empath will choose to stay away from people who prey on their energy and associate with the good-natured ones instead. In other words, an extroverted empath will take advantage of their ability to soak up people's energies by choosing to soak up the positive energy. 
Empaths can sense the subtlest energy
The ability of the highly sensitive people to pick up on subtle energies is not as fine-tuned as that of empaths. An empath can detect even the tiniest bit of emotion because they are connected to 
 people on a very primal level. The empath seems to be able to access a person's mind and gain total access to their emotions. On the other hand, though a highly sensitive person would pick up on the energy of other people, they will merely pick up the general vibe and miss out on the subtlety. An empath is much more likely to go through the rollercoaster of emotions, but a highly sensitive person is stuck in a cycle of negative thoughts once triggered. 
Empaths internalize the feelings of other people
When an empath perceives the emotions of other people, it doesn't stop there. They upgrade other people's emotions to become their own. Thus, if someone is in a world of pain, the empath is forced to feel the pain too. In that sense, the empath is at the mercy of the people that they interact with. 
Highly sensitive people cannot internalize the feelings of other people. They have a million insecurities - real and imagined. What happens is that someone will say something or do something and the highly sensitive person will be triggered. Highly sensitive people have very sharp observation skills, and they vet people's deeds against their database of insecurities. Once the negative train of thoughts starts, there's no stopping. 
Empaths have trouble distinguishing someone else's discomfort as their own
As an empath, you could be sitting in a lecture hall, trying to pay attention, and then bam!
 You start experiencing agonizing thoughts. Even though you have internalized those thoughts, you cannot tell the source. So, you just suffer quietly. On the other hand, the highly sensitive person can tell apart their emotional distress from those of others.







Chapter 7: Signs You May Already Have Psychic Abilitie
 s
Have you ever had the feeling that you already have some psychic skills or abilities? Perhaps you have plenty of experiences with déjàvu that you don't believe are significant, or you think that each time you accurately predict something, it's a mere coincidence. Are you guilty of ignoring unusual events that happen to you, or do you actually pause to look deeply? Many of us who already have psychic skills in one way or another do not recognize them for what they are, and so they go unused or worse, unnoticed. Recognizing the skills that you may already have is crucial for this path.
Why do People Ignore their Psychic Abilities
 ?
Afraid to be seen as "Weird": Our world does not always glorify or praise higher seeing, which may lead some people to hold back their abilities out of fear of being seen as different or weird. People do not always appreciate it when others see more than they do, and may resent someone who sees deeply into reality and is open about it. When you don't have friends around who understand this interest of yours, it can be hard to listen to your intuition or stay faithful to your path. 
Psychics are, at Times, seen as "Evil": At times, people with psychic abilities are even seen as witches, evil, or interested in the black arts, which is not necessarily true at all. As mentioned, everyone has these abilities, but most aren't aware of how to see them for what they are, haven't noticed them, or simply ignore them on purpose. However, some people may call these abilities evil, which will lead some to hide their skills. It's important to remember that these skills are not evil at all and are just a natural part of being a human. 
It's also possible that the person with psychic abilities may be called crazy or nonsensical if they are open about their skills or use them in front of others. It's a shame that we live in a world that downplays such an important and natural gift, but being aware of some of the stigma against these abilities can help you move past being held back by it. Once you develop along your psychic path, these judgments from others will not matter to you as much.
Signs that you have Psychic Skills
 :
For someone who naturally has these abilities in a large amount, they can only be held back for so long before they come out. Read over some of these signs and symptoms that might mean you already have some of these abilities. Perhaps you will realize that you're already halfway there, and only need to know what you should be looking for. Once you are aware of what these skills look like, you can move onto developing them even further, or choosing which you want to focus on. Do any of these descriptions fit you?

Higher than Average Intuitive Abilities
 : Have you heard the phone ring and already knew who it was, before seeing their name on the caller ID? Perhaps you can sense it when a text message is about to be sent to you, or have known an event was coming before anyone else. If you have the ability to sense whether someone has good or bad energy from across the room, before even speaking with them, you have highly developed intuition. This is, as mentioned, the first step on the journey of uncovering all of your psychic abilities. 

Visions Occur Regularly to you
 : For someone with psychic abilities, visions can be quite normal and occur often. If you've envisioned the future on multiple occasions, whether in dreams or waking life, you definitely have some level of psychic skill. These visions may depict what is happening in the hour, or the few months, and are significant at times, and seemingly trivial at others. In order to test this, start noting down your visions and ideas of what is going to happen, to see if you can confirm them on. 

Déjàvu is Normal to you
 : Déjàvu is something that everyone has experienced at least once, but for someone with higher than average psychic abilities, it's a common occurrence. If you always feel as though you've seen this place before when you really haven't, or sense familiarity in new things, places, or people, you are probably going through déjàvu. This is a signal that your psychic abilities are already in tune. Once your psychic abilities are heightened even more, this might become an everyday occurrence for you. 

Accurate Gut Feelings on a Regular Basis
 : For someone with psychic abilities, knowing what will happen before it does, is natural. You may be able to tell how events will play out, even if it's just a general sense of "good" or "bad". You may even be able to sense when you are going to get along well or badly with someone just 
 from looking at them, or in extreme cases, sense when a natural disaster is about to hit across the world. 

Occurrences of Telepathy
 : Have you ever felt as though your mind can send messages to other people? Have you picked up the thoughts or emotions of others seemingly without any effort? Perhaps you have noticed that you are having a connection with someone else without even saying one word, or have engaged in a full conversation with someone without talking at all. These are all signs of being psychic, and skills that can be strengthened with effort and practice. 

Vivid Dreaming
 : When someone has psychic skills, they often also have a tendency to experience vivid dreams, which they can recall even after waking up, in detail. They see symbols in these vivid dreams that can show deep metaphorical significance to the dreamer, and also show hidden messages that pertain to what is happening in their life at the time. A lot of people even have dreams that recur and tell a story that is hidden within the subconscious mind. Tapping into this skill can lend valuable insights to your own mind. 

Sensing History of Objects or People
 : Being able to sense the history of an object or person after touching it or them is another psychic skill that you may naturally possess. One way in which psychics are so powerful is because they are able to sense facts about objects, places, or people by simply focusing. They sometimes are able to hug someone or hold their hand and suddenly experience or sense pieces of that person's past. 

Premonitions and Predictions
 : If you've ever recorded thoughts down because you knew they were going to occur on, and then seen them happen, this is quite obviously proof of a latent psychic ability. You could have known they were coming from a dream you had, or simply a feeling that appeared to come out of nowhere. 

You know when Trouble is Coming
 : There is a strong feeling that happens when someone senses their loved one in danger. This can cause you to panic for no apparent or immediate reason, and cause a huge impact on you. There might be no instant explanation for this feeling, other than the overwhelming sense that someone 
 close to you is in trouble. In some cases, you might know who it is specifically, while for others, you will simply know it's someone close to you. 

You feel Events from Far Away
 : This ability is quite advanced and tells you that you are definitely psychic. Perhaps once you were either at work or at home, and could sense something happening from far away, either in another city or even country. If you've felt experiences from across the globe and knew what was going on, right as it happened, you likely have very advanced psychic skills. This could have been anything from a detailed, clear vision, to a strong sense of trouble happening somewhere specific. 

You have Healing Abilities
 : Some psychic people are able to touch someone ill or suffering and notice that they feel better almost instantly. Someone with psychic gifts has strong and usually positive energy that can be used to heal either mental or physical wounds in other people. If this has happened to you, it's likely the cause of your psychic abilities. 

You Predict Future Events
 : This one is quite obvious, but being able to predict future events, telling them to someone close to you, then seeing the event actually occur, is one main way to tell that you have psychic abilities. These intuitions often come at the most unexpected of times, and often without rhyme or reason, until the event occurs and makes it clear for you. 

Having Access to Sounds
 : Hearing sounds when no one else can, and always wondering why nobody is reacting to those subtle chimes or rings, can tell you that you have latent psychic skills. These noises might be pointing to an event that is yet to come. Some people with this skill are been able to narrow down what each sound means and use it to their advantage, or to help other people. 
Possessing psychic abilities need not make you afraid or anxious. These skills are wonderful gifts and, when developed fully, can be used in extraordinary ways. Psychic people are very helpful and valuable to others that have yet to notice or harness their own skills in this arena. People tend to trust those with psychic abilities, even if they aren't sure why they trust them. This can be for multiple reasons, from guidance, to support, to solving mysteries, or even a simple intuitive pull. When you learn to embrace these skills as 
 blessings from nature, you can begin to put them toward helping the world.
Psychics are a normal part of our society today. That's not saying there aren't people out there who do not believe in this sort of thing. Police departments have used psychics to help solve cold cases and abductions. Research has shown that psychics are real and are an accepted area of study. Studies have shown that psychic abilities are similar to the energy in quantum physics. Psychics can be seen on many TV shows as the main character. You can find many out there on this subject.
Religious leaders still disprove psychic abilities. They always warn their parishioners about the evils of psychics. They write them off as frauds, devil worshippers, or con artists. In spite of huge amounts of evidence that these abilities do exist, psychics still remain as unwanted guests in most religious institutions.
Psychic abilities go into more detailed information. It can help your intuition to build more from what you are feeling to make things clearer and give you better insight. This information can be brought through clairaudience, clairvoyance, clairsentience, clairgustance, or claircognizance. Instead of that gut feeling about not liking someone, you will either know something specific or see something specific about their past.

The first of the many intuitive abilities is clairaudience. This means clear hearing. You receive messages without using your actual ears. Clairaudience is inner hearing. You might have had someone tell you something, but no one is around you, or the person you are standing to didn't say anything. Psychics can hear spirits talk to them. It will be like you are reading to yourself. Sometimes, you might hear a voice in the accent of the person who is talking through them.
The second is clairvoyance. This means clear seeing. This is the most common intuition. Clairvoyance is being able to see something with your mind's eye. To simplify, it is like watching a movie in your head. This does not mean they are looking into the future or anything major; it is usually subtle. You could just see a number, color, or symbol. You will have to out what it means. It might actually be a premonition.
The third is clairsentience. This means clear feeling. This means you get messages through emotions, feelings, and sensations. Empathy is the most common form. People who are empaths usually feel drained since they are always bombarded by both negative and positive emotions and feelings. You might walk up to someone you just barely know and can "feel" exactly what they are feeling. It gives you an ability to know if someone is lying. This is very handy. If your abilities are extremely strong, you might begin to feel sick when you are around a lot of people with bad energy.
The fourth is clairgustance. This means clear tasting. With this, you can taste something before ever putting it into your mouth. Mediums sometimes experience this during a reading. When psychics try to communicate with others, they might begin to develop a taste in their mouths. If the person they are trying to reach liked chocolate, they the psychic might actually taste chocolate.
The fifth is claircognizance. This is clear knowing. This ability allows you to know something without seeing any facts or information. You might just know that you can't trust your neighbor or that new person you just started working with. These feelings might be strong and just pop in your head at any time. You might have had some similar thoughts before. You might have been standing and waiting for an elevator, but something just told you to take the stairs. When you get to the floor you wanted, you find out the elevator got stuck between floors.

A lesser common intuition is clairalience. This is clear smelling. This gives you the ability to smell beyond your normal ability. If you have ever been sitting, reading a, relaxing in your favorite chair and got a strong odor of a cigar, pipe, perfume, or any smell you can associate with a deceased relative.
These are just examples of different intuitions. You do not have to have all of them. You might only have one or two, or you could experience all of them at one point in your life. It all depends on how a person wants to communicate with you.







Chapter 8: How to Develop Your Psychic Abilities for a Better Lif
 e
Developing your psychic abilities can be a hard nut to crack if you have got no plans of how to do it. There are myriads of techniques that are of great importance in your journey of developing strong psychic abilities. With these techniques at hand, you might still find it very hard. The secret to this is that you have to practice only one technique per day. You do not necessarily have to practice these exercises in a given order as they all have one aim, that is, the development of your psychic abilities. 
The following are the various ways in which you can develop your psychic abilities:
Take a walk in a park 
Taking a walk in a park or any other place surrounded by nature is one of the best ways of meditating. This is where you get a chance to concentrate on your steps while walking. As you walk, keep focusing on each step you take while uttering the word 'step' after each step. This will help you a great deal in clearing the mind of confusion and jumbles. 
Practice staring at auras 
You can easily learn to always stare at an aura, and this is one of the best ways of developing your psychic abilities. The best way of coming up with an aura is having a friend standing in front of a wall with only one-colored paint. You are then required to step back approximately eight feet. Now you have to stare on his or her forehead while imagining that you are looking through her behind the wall. At this point, you will notice that there is an aura layer formed around their heads. This, therefore, will have greatly developed your psychic ability.  
Pray often
Praying is one of the greatest tools for developing your psychic abilities. Prayer is a tool that many employ in relieving themselves of burdens as they talk to a Supreme being; they believe in. This also makes you feel supported and loved. Therefore, having some time 
 designated for prayers daily will be of help to a great deal. 
Make a symbol
There is a variety of ways in which you can obtain psychic information. They are usually not literal and thus have to look at symbolically. Everyone has got Spirit guides, and thus yours will guide you through the interpretation of information. You will, therefore, develop your psychic abilities in the process.  
Make your tarot
In case you are using tarot to develop your psychic abilities, then you can get a tarot deck and make your tarot. Use your imaginations to make your meanings of the cards rather than looking at the meanings that come with them. You can also spend time with one card a day and meditate upon it the note down all you think about the card. This, therefore, will help you in developing your psychic abilities using a tarot. 
Keep your vibration high 
When developing your psychic abilities, it is imperative to have your vibrations high. This is because like is always attracted to like, and thus you will also be able to attract other souls that are spiritually aware. Apart from that, the frequency at which the spirits vibrate is very high. 
Activities That Help in Psychic Progress
The more knowledge you have of people, the more able you are to pick up on messages from others. For example, if you are empathetic, you are able to place yourself into their situation and see things in a much clearer way. If you are inexperienced with different kinds of people, you are less likely to be able to read them or to give them accurate readings. Thus, there are some activities that you can do to help you to develop your psychic abilities:
Observation exercises - understanding body language
Observation is a wonderful tool. You are able to observe people and to see the different ways in which they react to certain situations. This gives you many clues when it comes to being able to assure them while giving them a reading or consultation. Body language is one way in which you can learn if people are being honest with you. 
 It shows on their faces and the movement of muscles when someone is deliberately lying to you and as a psychic it's important that you know who you are dealing with. Try to learn from the body language of people and the best way to do this is to look out for the following things:
Crossed arms - This shows a defensive stance. The person may not be open to any new information and thus you must approach with caution.
Blinking eyes when they talk - This means that there is a level of deception involved. Perhaps the client is trying to show you up as a charlatan and is purposely feeding you incorrect information to see how you react to it.
Not looking directly into your eyes - This may mean that the client is a little ashamed of something and you may have to coax it from them in order to help the client. In this case, try to be gentle and reassure the client so that the client is prepared to confide in you.
Playing with their hands - This denotes that the client is nervous and it may help to sooth the client so that you are able to make him/her feel more at ease with you. Remember that trust plays a huge part when someone consults a psychic. You need to establish sufficient trust to take away any doubts that the client may have and help him/her to feel at ease.
Other behaviors to observe
If a client shows belligerence, the chances are that the client feels on unsafe ground. The reason that people show this type of behavior is that they feel a sense of insecurity. Perhaps they have never experienced psychic readings before and are a little ill at ease and use this bravado to hide the fact that they are insecure. 
You also need to be able to recognize the following, in order to feel empathy for the client and this empathy is all important when it comes to making yourself believable:
●       Nervousness
●       Unhappiness
●       Fear
●       Anger
●       Jealousy
●       Hopelessness
●       Loss of faith
These feelings could be derived from the situation in which the client finds him/herself and your empathy is very important. If, for example, a woman wants you to talk about her dead husband, it would be unprofessional not to pick up on her feelings of desperation or to exploit them. You need to be able to show empathy and to step into her shoes and if this means questioning her a little about the relationship, this will help your powers of observation.
Increasing your Knowledge
If you are lacking in general knowledge, you can't put yourself over as astutely as someone whose knowledge is vast. Thus, one of the activities that is suggested for people who want to develop their psychic abilities is reading. Read a wide variety of which will give you an insight into human behavior and even if you limit this to good quality fiction, this will help you to be able to empathize with clients who have been through experiences that you would otherwise not be able to imagine. 
The wider your knowledge base, the better able you are to draw from it. I recommend that you choose a variety of - both factual and fiction - because reading opens your mind and helps you to experience all kinds of emotions that you may never touch upon in your life and that will be helpful to you in your work. 
Concentration exercises
To develop and hone this part of your psychic ability, you need to have activities that improve your concentration levels. Art can do this if you are artistically inclined. If you like computers, why not try honing in on your concentrative powers by using something such as a program like Luminosity. You have to concentrate because you are given certain questions to answer within a given time. They call it "exercise for the brain" but as far as a psychic goes, it's really and truly great concentration for the mind. That's part and parcel of what you need to develop so if you can find programs that require total concentration, then these are good for you and will help your concentration levels to improve. 
Other games that are fun are turning a pack of cards face downward onto a table and trying to establish pairs by turning two cards over at a time. You need to concentrate because you need to remember where certain cards are and, with practice, will find that you improve your concentration. This is vital for the psychic because it's easy to allow outside influence to get in the way when you are trying to give a client a reading. If you have learned concentration through meditation this helps to hone the mind, body and spirit into that moment. However, card games such as this also help your powers of observation and when working with people, that's vital to success.
Sociability - Learning to mix with all kinds of people opens up your understanding of different character types. It is important that you have a fair share of work and play and try to meet plenty of people in your life. Many people who develop psychic abilities find that having a great social life improves the way that they can read people's problems because they also become aware of different mannerisms and the approach that different people have toward their problems. It also helps to work with different age levels. Thus, spend quality time with kids and learn to have a great relationship with older folk. 







Chapter 9: Exercises to Boost Your Psychic Abilitie
 s
It can be tricky to develop your psychic abilities, but these exercises can get your psychic senses and abilities rolling.
1. Meditate for at least 10 to 15 minutes every day to raise your energetic vibration and develop your psychic abilities.
2. Try guided mediation for variety and some fun.
3. Practice psychometry to see if you can sense, hear or see anything about the object and its owner. Hold a small metal object (ring, keys) that is used a lot in your hand and see if you can feel, hear and visualize the energy.
4. Use Zener cards with friends
5. Grab different types of flowers and study them for a little while. Next close your eyes and imagine the flowers to develop your psychic abilities, specifically, clairvoyance.
6. Walk outside your home and concentrate on each step as you walk. You can focus on the movement of your body and visualize the good things around you.
7. Read a few pages of a psychic development book every day.
8. Read about intuition and the spiritual world.
9. Spend time reading tarot cards as it is a great way to develop your psychic abilities.
10. Learn more about how chakras and auras work and practice seeing auras.








Chapter 10: Parenting Empath Children — Tips for Raising an Empath Chil
 d

Raising empath children may be difficult if we do not recognize the signs that they truly are an empath instead of just being difficult. Here are seven signs that may give you solidification that your child is an empath:

They are considered highly sensitive.
They are overwhelmed by stimulation.
They have a strong connection with animals.
They have an attachment to objects.
They love to read.
They have mysterious physical symptoms.
They enjoy their alone time and need a lot of it.


They are considered highly sensitive.
 There are many teachers and psychologists who may diagnose or proclaim that they are overly sensitive or too sensitive. Highly sensitive children may have sensory issues. Some may not like tags on their shirts and scratchy materials, and in some cases, detergents may cause rashes.

They are overwhelmed by stimulation.
 Have you ever been to a parade or a crowded theme park and there are children having meltdowns at the sight of so many people or loud noises? Those children may be experiencing an overwhelming amount of stimulation that they do not know how to handle. Strong scents, loud noises, and too many people around them may cause them to shut down with an anxious and overwhelming feeling that they do not know how to handle. For example, when the child screams and runs to the car when loud noises come up in the parade, do not laugh at that child. Try to find a way to comfort them so they do not feel so overwhelmed.

They have a strong connection with animals.
 Empath children tend to connect deeply with animals. There are not any facial expressions or odd body language to decipher, so they typically are on the same page with animals. There are not any conflicting expressions 
 between the two. It is an upfront, non-judgmental relationship. Animals love their humans unconditionally, and the empath child will prefer their animals to other humans.

They have an attachment to objects.
 There are children who develop a strong attachment to inanimate objects. You may notice this when one of their toys breaks and has to be thrown away or their stuffed animal has a rip in the side. They tend to feel deeply for their toys and are attached to them, and they think that their toys feel pain and loneliness. Kids that have this attachment to their toys and stuffed animals are most likely empaths.

They love to read.
 On occasion, your child may become obsessed with a certain topic and will want to learn and read all about it. If your child falls in love with reading to escape into an alternate reality, all power to them, and do not discourage it.

They have mysterious physical symptoms.
 Physical symptoms will appear when a child bottles up intense emotions and is unable to figure out how to release them. In fourth grade, there was a child who was having a difficult time with her grandfather passing. She would carry around the stuffed animal that he gave to her, and she would have a hard time breathing on occasion and have chest pains. Doctors were unable to provide a diagnosis. They chalked it up to growing pains and anxiety. With the many emotions within the child, plus dealing with her surroundings at school, classmates, classwork, and such, she did not know how else to express how she was feeling. Hence, her internal symptoms developed into mysterious physical symptoms.

They enjoy their alone time and need a lot of it.
 As adult empaths need alone time, child empaths do too. Child empaths rarely get bored as they have solitude when they are alone and can entertain themselves. They need this alone time to recharge or regain their solitude from certain situations.
Those parents that are empaths will generally pick up on whether or not one or more of their children is an empath as well. Many people, including teachers, parents, and counselors, tend to have a difficult time understanding children that are empaths. They do not quite understand the hypersensitivity and will think the child is dramatic or needs to be tougher like other children. They may want to help 
 the child; however, they do not know how to, and at times, that can single out the empath child to the point where it may do more damage. It does not matter who understands them and who does not; all they need is someone to believe in them so that they can flourish into their own unique being.
How to support sensitive children
The Magic and Stress of Pregnancy and Infancy
What potential elements add to kids turning out to be empaths? Some may start as empaths in utero, ready to strongly feel everything, both cheerful and distressing. These kids are brought into the world with high sensitivities, rising up out of the belly incredibly receptive to outer boosts, much more so than different newborn children. In these occurrences, it appears that the empath quality is spent on genetically.2 Sometimes, however, this demeanor develops because of early childrearing. Parental job demonstrating is significant. Youngsters gain from their folks' empath traits.
Supporting an empath kid starts in pregnancy. Everything that occurs during this period influences the developing hatchling. Truth be told, regardless of whether a kid ends up being an empath, it's outstanding that babies are touchy to the enthusiastic condition of their folks. It has been appeared, for example, that some hatchlings appreciate Mozart however are upset by rap music.
Playing loosening up music during pregnancy can help quiet you and your child. 
A mother's anxiety matters as well. Research has demonstrated that maternal pressure hormones cross the placenta and course in the hatchling, expanding a youngster's propensity to be "exceptionally strung."5 When a mother encounters continuous clash with her accomplice or others, the baby gears itself up to arrangement with this sort of high-pressure condition and may then be inclined to different pressure related indications after birth. 
The neurological wiring for affectability creates in the belly. It's critical to encompass a pregnant mother with however much tranquility as could reasonably be expected. At that point both mother and hatchling will be washed in endorphins, the body's 
 "happiness" neurochemicals and common painkillers. Contemplation, giggling, work out, and being in nature all lift endorphin levels. I suggest that moms utilize the accompanying contemplation every day during and after pregnancy to harvest the tranquil otherworldly, passionate, and physical advantages of endorphins. 
INSURANCE STRATEGY
A Meditation for Mothers: Feeling the Goddess Within
Take five minutes to inhale gradually and profoundly. Put your hand on your heart and flood yourself with affection and gratefulness for who you are as a mother. Experience the gift, the appreciation, the glow, and the association of being a parent. Moms are goddesses of creation. Maternal supporting is a demonstration of profound love. Feel the intensity of the mother goddess profound inside you. She is the piece of you that is associated with the earth and every common cycle in a significantly mysterious manner. The mother goddess was revered by different societies in antiquated occasions. Lift up in the mother goddess inside you. Feel her base power, and hail her quality in your being. 
Your baby responds as you respond, so having a positive perspective is significant. Keep your child quiet by being quiet yourself. Think hopeful and serene contemplations. Additionally, move your body without any difficulty. The delicate influencing your hatchling encounters when you go for a moderate stroll puts you both in a soothing state, Also, after birth, shaking movements help your infant to rest. 
Empath moms must be caring to themselves during pregnancy since feeling another being inside can increase their sensitivities. To adjust to your infant, place your hand over your gut, affectionately stroke it, and send your youngster heart vitality. Your accomplice can do this with you as well. It's a method for vigorously saying "hello there" and building up a sweet bond among guardians and kid. Any tension you may have felt about being pregnant can disseminate when you naturally tune in. One empath mother imparted this to me: "I could feel the developing hatchling. My little girl loosened up her wings in all sides of my paunch like a butterfly. I knew it all was alright." 
Empath fathers must conform to another degree of affectability during the pregnancy as well. One dad who is a physical empath revealed to me he encountered his better half's morning ailment, even before she knew about it. On an oblivious level, he instinctively converged with her body and felt her sensations. He was better ready to draw a limit between his significant other's vitality and his own in the wake of learning contemplation and establishing practices in our sessions. Utilizing these techniques, he was then less inclined to take on her side effects. 
When your infant is conceived, on the off chance that you presume your kid is an empath, take additional consideration to make a satisfying and serene condition, with delicate lighting and negligible clamor. Breastfeeding will develop your holding, just as conveying your child in a sling, which enables both of you to feel the closeness of your energies. This is a great deal more supporting than placing an infant in a bunk with a pacifier or a jug at whatever point they cry. 
The Effect of Early Trauma on an Adult's Sensitivity
As a specialist, I've seen how youth disregard or abuse can influence the affectability level of grown-ups. Various empaths I've worked with have encountered early youth passionate or physical injury, which wore out their guards and made them increasingly touchy for the duration of their lives. 
An irate domain can particularly affect a touchy kid. As of late, analysts at the University of Oregon found that babies become unsettled around factious and furious voices and that progressing introduction to contentions can make them increasingly responsive to different sorts of pressure and rest disturbances.6 Parents must understand the impact of outrage and hollering on their infant. They should figure out how to quiet themselves and address outrage in more advantageous manners. Babies are absolutely needy. They can't leave your outrage and should endure the dangerous outcomes. The examination likewise uncovered that desperate stressors of misuse and abuse can essentially modify a child's mental health—a calming eye-opener. 
I suggest that all empaths who have encountered careless or harsh child rearing find support from an advisor or other qualified manual 
 for recuperate these injuries. I likewise recommend rehashing a variety of the Serenity Prayer to discharge the past, just as any desire that your folks will change. Saying this supplication can shield you from harboring dangerous feelings of disdain and agony from your childhood. It will assist you with discovering acknowledgment just as more harmony and amusingness, regardless of how restricted your folks were. The less feelings of hatred we hold, particularly about our family, the better it is for us and our very own kids. 
Furthermore, it's likewise mending and essential to pardon yourself for your very own slip-ups as a parent with your children and family. Try not to pummel yourself. It's difficult to be great, however it's a decent practice to rapidly present appropriate reparations to your friends and family when you've been, state, anxious, disappointed, or peevish. As you offer some kind of reparation, I propose that you affectionately take a gander at your youngsters or accomplice and rehash the delicate customary Hawaiian Ho'oponopono supplication (to one side). 
Saying this petition makes positive vitality while it gets out hatred and hurt emotions. It strengthens the extraordinary otherworldly exercises of child rearing, which incorporate self esteem, quietude, and the pledge to respect your own, your children's, and your accomplice's sensitivities.
Twenty Tips for Nurturing Empathic Children
It's superb to help delicate youngsters and grasp their capacities. This will have a significant effect in their inclination OK with themselves now and as they develop into delicate grown-ups. The accompanying procedures can support you and them: 
1. Energize your kid's sensitivities and instinct. Welcome your youngster to talk straightforwardly about their capacities to you and to other people who are steady. Make it obvious to them that not every person is tolerating of these blessings and recognize individuals who may be sheltered. You can likewise share a portion of your empathic encounters, for example, the inclination to take on others' feelings and stress, in spite of the fact that I wouldn't overshare agonizing subtleties. The fact of the matter is to be there for your kid, not treatment for yourself. Show your youngster to 
 esteem their uniqueness and to confide in their hunches and inward voice. At that point they will consider their to be as common. These discussions will enable your kid to feel seen and better comprehend their own responses.
2. Respect your youngster's emotions. Listen cautiously to what your youngster feels, and regard their emotions. This may mean permitting them the periodic day away from work from school to slow down or giving them a chance to play alone more regularly. You would prefer not to enjoy confinement, however you would like to help the required time alone that is basic for an empath youngster's prosperity. On the off chance that your youngster needs to slither under the lounge area table or leave a huge social event, don't drag them once again into the gathering. Try not to disgrace them for needing to get away. Simply let them remain uninvolved where they can watch and ingest without turning out to be overpowered. They are taking an interest, yet in their own specific manner. You might be astonished at the experiences they share after the group scatters. 
3. Instruct relatives and instructors about your empath kid. Try not to enable others to pass judgment or censure your kid, for example, revealing to them that they have to "toughen up" in light of the fact that they become effectively harmed or upset. Relatives and others may not intend to be rude. They simply need to see increasingly about your kid's touchy personality. Since the school condition can be cruel and unsupportive of empaths, instruct your youngster's instructors about their blessings and their propensity for tangible over-burden. Additionally, request that they bolster your kid in the event that they are being tormented or prodded at school. 
4. Trust your instinct. Continue checking out your very own instinct about what your kid needs. Try not to re-think your internal voice or give others a chance to work you out of what it is letting you know. Give your instinct a chance to manage you in bringing up your kid. 
5. Help your kid perceive when they've retained others' feelings. Disclose to your child or little girl that delicate youngsters can without much of a stretch be influenced by the feelings of the individuals around them, maybe more so than different children. You may reveal to them it resembles having the option to feel a 
 raincloud or daylight over somebody's head that no one else can see. You can show them an image of Joe Btfsplk, the celebrated funny cartoon character in Li'l Abner, who consistently has a foreboding shadow drifting over him. He has good intentions however carries incident to people around him. 
Empath youngsters can detect the constructive and adverse vibes that individuals transmit. So when you see an abrupt and unexplainable move in your youngster's state of mind or vitality level, disclose to them it's presumable they're getting someone else's feelings. On the off chance that the experience feels better, that is fine, obviously, however in the event that it's awkward or tiring, bolster your kid in getting some separation and converse with them about the experience. When your youngster figures out how to recognize which feelings are theirs and which have a place with another, they will be less confounded. 
6. Be a passionate stabilizer. Empath kids will in general take on their folks' tension and need to improve things for them. Attempt to remain consistent in your feelings and abstain from communicating over the top tension around them. One mother let me know, "In case I'm restless, my delicate child feels it, which destabilizes him and triggers fits of rage. I will likely remain focused. At the point when I'm focused, it makes him have a sense of safety." Be mindful that exceptionally empathic youngsters can reflect your feelings and side effects—and that empath guardians can do likewise with their children. 
7. Try not to contend before your kid or anyplace they can catch. Delicate youngsters feel they must assistance their folks show signs of improvement. They become more alarmed and ingest more outrage than kids who are not empaths do. Tension and contentions overstimulate them. On the off chance that you should contend with your accomplice or others, do so when your children can't hear. Like profoundly delicate grown-ups, exceptionally touchy youngsters can be injured by shouting. They may accept they are to be faulted for the contention. They additionally assimilate the cynicism and need to fix the issue, which is an unseemly job for them. 
8. Urge your kid to require some serious energy alone to be tranquil and imaginative. Empath kids flourish with free and unstructured 
 time. It's an open door for them to be innovative and enable their minds to meander. They revive and quiet down when they are distant from everyone else, which lessens their incitement limit. Bolster your kid in having these mysterious calm intermissions to renew. You can do this by not overscheduling your kid and by giving them authorization to have normal breaks, particularly when they're grumpy, whiny, or overpowered. 
9. Instruct your youngster breathing and reflection works out. At the point when delicate youngsters are focused or feel as though they've taken on others' feelings (counting your own), it's significant that they figure out how to take a couple of full breaths to quiet down. What's more, they can close their eyes for two or three minutes and picture a loosening up picture, for example, the sea, a cute pet, or a glad day at the recreation center. Request that they center around this picture as they inhale out all inconvenience and breathe in quiet and satisfaction. This will show them how to break the cycle of tactile over-burden and re-focus themselves. 
10. Urge your youngster to express their fantasies. Empath youngsters regularly love to share their night dreams. Make a morning meal custom where they can discuss them in detail. Talk about how the fantasy made them feel, what feelings came up, and what message they think the fantasy was conveying. For example, if your kid is disappointed in a fantasy, attempt to recognize a wellspring of the dissatisfaction in day by day life as well with the goal that it tends to be assuaged. You may propose that they keep a fantasy diary where they record their fantasies every night. They can likewise draw or paint pictures from their fantasies in the diary. 
11. Help your youngster work on protecting around vitality vampires. Urge your youngster to perceive depleting and upsetting individuals and to define sound limits with them, regardless of whether these individuals are grown-ups or different children. For example, your kid can restrain the time they go through with a drainer by saying, "I need to go meet my mother now," and they can just avoid irate individuals to forestall getting dumped on. On the off chance that they can't maintain a strategic distance from the individual, show your youngster to picture a defensive shield of white light a couple of inches from their skin that totally encompasses their body from head to toe. Clarify that this shield will 
 repulse negative vitality with the goal that they don't take on awkward sentiments, while the shield will likewise enable positive vitality to come through. 
12. Ground your youngster with drumming. Drumming is a base sound that can quiet kids. At the point when your delicate kid gets overstimulated or crotchety, have a fabulous time together pulsating on a drum in a gradual musicality that emulates the pulse. Shaking a clatter can likewise help ease pressure. At the point when your youngster is more seasoned, you can join a drumming circle with your locale—as long as the gathering isn't excessively enormous. 
13. Diminish presentation to animating circumstances. Since empath youngsters can get peevish from an excessive amount of tangible info, limit your kid's time in profoundly invigorating conditions, for example, Disneyland and other entertainment meccas. A few hours might be the most extreme time for them, in spite of the fact that others in your gathering can endure more. It's no fun hauling around a shouting kid when you're at "the most joyful spot on earth." So go early, when the groups are more slender. At that point enjoy a reprieve when you see indications of over-burden and come back to your lodging or home. You can generally return for all the more later, after everybody has gotten an opportunity to invigorate and re-focus themselves.
14. Make vacation before your kid rests. This implies no TV, mobile phones, web-based social networking, computer games, PCs, or other electronic gadgets before bed. It regularly takes an empath youngster longer to slow down around evening time. Haziness and calm reduction incitement, which enables youngsters to rest all the more adequately. Singing children's songs relieves them to rest also. 
15. Breaking point your youngster's admission of handled nourishment, starches, and sugar. This will bring down your youngster's incitement level by anticipating the emotional episodes from sugar rushes just as starch longings and surges. Handled nourishments are brimming with synthetic compounds and deprived of supplements, which likewise makes them less edible. They can make your children be bad tempered, have excessively or too little vitality, and obscure their core interest. Touchy kids are 
 delicate to nourishments. Teach them about how what they eat impacts their state of mind and vitality level. 
16. Intercede before fits. In the event that your youngster is disturbed or very nearly a fit of rage, diminish the lights to mollify nature and turn on loosening up music—no hard rock, substantial metal, or rap. Here and there it's useful to play nature sounds, for example, streaming water. Likewise request that your youngster delayed down and take some long, full breaths. Instruct them to breathe out pressure and to breathe in serenity. 
17. Use fragrance based treatment with basic oils (no synthetics). Lavender is unwinding. Rub one to two drops on your kid's third eye (in the focal point of the brow), or warmth lavender oil with the goal that the aroma pervades the room (you can generally get the gadget that securely warms fundamental oils any place you buy the oil). Cleaning up at sleep time with a couple of drops of lavender, chamomile, sandalwood, or ylang oil in the water can be quieting. Advise your youngster to envision washing endlessly all worry in the shower. Including a large portion of a cup of Epsom salts is helpful for evacuating poisons and diminishing worry also. A back rub during or after the night shower can calm your kid and energize rest as well.
18. Utilize pet treatment. Pets are establishing and offer youngsters unqualified love. They are great buddies and can calm an annoyed kid. Empath youngsters have an extraordinary fondness for creatures and might have the option to speak with them on profound levels in the event that they are creature empaths. Canines can be compelling in settling down overactive or forceful children. 
19. Use gemstones. Have a go at giving your youngster a quartz or pink or dark tourmaline precious stone to hold. These can have a sense of safety in the hand, while they unpretentiously are establishing and quieting. 
20. Help your kid turn the dial down on pressure. Alongside the above tips, you can likewise show your kid to utilize the accompanying perception to calm down and break the pressure cycle at whatever point they're feeling over-burden. They can utilize it at home, at school, or with their companions. This method is a piece of the fundamental toolbox for every delicate kid. 
INSURANCE STRATEGY FOR SENSITIVE CHILDREN
Turn the Dial Down on Stress 
At the point when your kid feels overstimulated, this is what you can say to them: In your creative mind, picture a major dial on a table before you. It has numbers on it, and they go from 10 on the left side to zero on the correct side. As of now, this dial is set at ten. See yourself gradually turning the setting on the dial down, beginning with 10. Turn the dial clockwise to one side, as the numbers get littler and littler, until you arrive at zero: 10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, and 1. As you turn the dial along these lines, feel yourself getting increasingly loose. You are bringing down your pressure and distress. At the point when you arrive at zero, you will feel quiet and glad. 
In the event that your kid is too youthful to even think about imagining this dial, you can draw an image of it and have them point to their anxiety. At that point gradually tally down with them until you arrive at zero. 
The down to earth techniques I present in this part will make bringing up an empathic youngster a more quiet and progressively blissful experience for your entire family. It is a gift to help the unique blessings of empath youngsters. At the point when they figure out how to deal with their sensitivities right off the bat, their adolescence and grown-up lives will be simpler and all the more satisfying. From this point of view, we're reminded that child rearing is a sacrosanct duty. 

The future of enlightened parenting
 

My fantasy is that instruction about being an empathic kid starts at the most punctual stages for guardians, just as for instructors in our schools. Rather than disgracing kids for their sensitivities, guardians, instructors, and authority figures can bolster these capacities and help empathic youngsters and their friends and family get them. Along these lines, youngsters will figure out how to comprehend and adapt to their sensitivities also, which can touch off their inventiveness and certainty. 
Together we can start to grasp delicate youngsters and grown-ups. 
 The world would be increasingly amicable and tranquil if our pioneers were profoundly touchy individuals with enormous, solid hearts. Through my workshops, books, online courses, and sound projects, I have committed my profession to teaching the same number of individuals as I can—remembering pioneers for all fields and organizations, just as healers and guardians—about empaths and child rearing delicate youngsters. Envision the magnificent day when we all can be available to the miracles of the sensitivities in our youngsters and ourselves.







Chapter 11: Clairvoyant Healin
 g
If you've decided to awaken and strengthen your psychic abilities, you are probably in tune with your compassionate side. If you're like most psychics and want to use your gift to help people, you can use clairvoyant healing - also known as psychic healing - as well as giving them psychic readings. People who have a desire to become psychics or have a natural predisposition to psychic ability are naturally compassionate and empathetic people, so it's no wonder that a great many of them decide to become healers and help others. This may be something you wish to pursue, or perhaps not - but either way, this chapter will cover the basics of psychic healing so that you can begin helping others. 
What you're doing when you're healing someone using your psychic power is sending them and their body healing energies. You're basically balancing and harmonizing their body's energies and removing blockages to dissipate physical aches and pains. It's a system of energy work where you are sending specific healing energy to the person who needs it. Clairvoyance comes into play because clairvoyant premonitions often help psychics by showing them images of the problem that can help them come to the solution of how to go about healing them. Psychic healers will also send someone clairvoyant healing images to manifest their "patient" as healthy, happy, and mentally, physically, and spiritually well.
To start healing someone, it can be helpful to meditate. You may even be visited by that person's spirit guide, giving you advice on what the problem is and how to handle it. Whether you've received a clairvoyant premonition, or you were told by them or their spirit guide what they need specific healing for, focus on your subject. It is best if the person you are healing is in the room with you, especially when you're first starting this healing journey. Clear your mind of anything except what you are trying to heal. With every inhale, you are drawing the unhealthiness out of that person's body, with every exhale, you are releasing it into the universe to be transformed into something positive. Draw on the Universal Energy as a source of power to help heal this person, as this can be a very energy depleting process if you work unaided. Visualize images of health. Imagine 
 that they are the image of perfect health, from their head down to their toes. Start from the head, picturing them smiling and relaxed, breathing naturally, a glow radiating from them. Work your way slowly down the body picturing each body part in perfect working condition, even if that part is already healthy. The body must work as a whole - strong arms, heart beating steady, smooth skin, and sturdy legs that can carry them as far as they need to go in life. Keep picturing each part all the way to the feet. Imagine the area that's troubling them as a dark spot on their body. Dissolve it with your energy, watch it dissolve and fade away with pure light, leaving a radiant white glow behind. Then release and send this image of health via energy and clairvoyance to the person you are healing. They may not be able to see them consciously, but the energy and focus you put into them of healthiness will merge with their energy and their mind, showing their subconscious what they are working towards. It will manifest itself as you have also sent it out to the universe. 
It is theorized that physical ailments can all be traced back to mental turmoil. Of course, if an outside factor has a hand in things, then this would not be the case. For example, a broken leg is not due to depression; it's due to your subject tripping or falling and the bone breaking. 24-hour nausea directly after eating at a two-star restaurant is probably not because of an inner battle with stress over a work decision - more likely it is food poisoning and nothing deeper is going on in these cases. However, with things like headaches, joint stiffness, muscle pain, intestinal problems, frequent nausea, etc., it is always worth examining a person's mental state. Is there a lot of built up repressed emotion? Depression? Worries and anxiety? Stress due to day-to-day problems or big decisions and events coming up in a person's life? These can all show themselves in physical ways as persistent ailments in the body that just won't go away. Usually, a certain point of physical pain is indicative of energy blockage. So, remember when you're healing, you're not just healing the body; you are also healing the mind. It's always worth it to consider the mental state. 
There is no person alive who has suffered nothing and has no emotional issues that cause hindrances in their life. Every single person has been through hard times - although some more than 
 others - but it doesn't invalidate the lasting effects it can have on the mind. When doing mental healing, keep in mind that everyone's been through different things and are dealing with different things in their current life, so don't treat every healing session the same, just as you wouldn't heal a headache the same as a sore stomach. Ask the person you are healing to look into their mind. What is or has been their mental state recently? If they don't want to tell you then that's fine, just have them acknowledge and be aware of anything that comes up and feel the energy of it. As this occurs, you may begin to pick up on a shift in energy. The psychic healer's job is to heal those physical ailments that have an emotional or mental origin. Focus your clairvoyant image messages on what the person is feeling now. Did you sense sadness or depression? Send to them visualizations of them happy and surrounded by a warm glow, perhaps running through a field of yellow flowers. Did you pick up on anxiety or worries? Imagine them completely at peace, eyes closed, face and body relaxed, breathing calm. Maybe they are in a mountain cabin with a cup of tea, nothing but nature around them. Tension and stress? Imagine them going through their hectic day-to-day routine with light ease, the chaos of their duties not phasing them. They are laughing and smiling and almost gliding or floating as they go through their day, light as air. These clairvoyant images will help their subconscious to release and let go of tensions that have been weighing them down and thus will help with whatever the physical symptoms they're experiencing are. 
When you have finished a healing session, ask the person you were healing how they felt afterward. Did they feel relaxed? Did a peace of mind come over them? Any bodily sensations? Did any emotions come up for them? How about energy levels? Do they feel like they have more energy, less energy, or the same? Get feedback from this person and follow up a few days after the session to see if any improvements have come up or remain. If it was a specific physical ailment you were treating, ask how it felt immediately after the session and then follow up a few days later to see if your healing had an effect on it, if there was any improvement, and if it's lasted. Remember, you may not have a great effect right away. And if someone improves but it doesn't stick, remember it may take a few sessions - it usually can't just be done in one. 
When you are psychically healing someone, be aware that it may take multiple sessions, especially if it's something more serious. However, as a beginner, it's best if you work with smaller less serious ailments to practice. You also have to note that the person you are healing has to want to be healed for your energy to have an effect. They may even say they want to be healed, but deep down, they don't want to be, or they are skeptical. If that is the case, then they will be a struggle to heal, and it may have no effect at all. Just make sure that you don't accuse your very first "patients" of not wanting to be healed because this may be due to your beginner status and inexperienced powers rather than their disbelief or subconscious unwillingness. 
You can also clairvoyantly heal someone who isn't near you. In fact, they could be quite far away. This is described by many as praying. What you are doing is the same as if the person was in the room with you; you are sending them energy and clairvoyant images to heal. Try healing from a distance once you've practiced and built up your power healing someone in physical proximity to you. Since they won't be with you physically and you can't feel their energy present, you will have to visualize them more vividly and strongly. Picture every detail of them, and really put a lot of depth, detail and focus into the image of them as healthy and healed. Visualization is the key to distance healing since you don't have their energy to work with. You can even speak what you want for them out loud. The energy of your words will be released into the universe and solidified, manifesting these results of health for your friend or person whom you're trying to heal. Remember: when psychic healing, if you only rely on your own energy reserves, you will become drained quickly. Tap into the universe's energy; it will be an invaluable source of aid during your healing session. 
If you want a test subject who won't demand results and won't complain or be skeptical, try with your pet. Maybe they aren't in need of healing but try sensing their energy, and through meditation, focus on your pet and specifically the health of your pet and see if any clairvoyant messages show up. If not, it's still a good way to practice getting a sense of someone else's energy and emotional state, as animals feel things just like we do.
Hopefully, this chapter has awakened you and opened your eyes to 
 the source of many people's physical troubles. Whether you want to become a clairvoyant healer or not is of no importance. Not all psychics choose this path, though they may dabble in it. And choosing this path does not mean giving up every other aspect of psychic ability. It is just one ability that a psychic can develop. If this interests you, practice, practice, and practice - and don't forget to get permission from a friend, partner, or family member to practice your healing on them. Probably best to practice on someone who has
 some sort of physical ailment. Happy healing! 
One last note for this chapter: it is extremely important that you are aware that psychic healing is not a cure. You CANNOT make diagnoses through clairvoyant psychic healing. Leave diagnosing patients to the professionals! It is highly unlikely that psychic healing will cure physical ailments completely or can be substituted medicine for illness and pain or medication and therapy for someone with a mental disorder. It can alleviate symptoms, get to the root of problems, get energy flowing and balanced again, and bring up someone's energetic frequency, but it should not be used instead of modern medicine or as a replacement for it. Rather, it should be used alongside it - they can work together. 







Chapter 12: Telepath
 y
Have you ever watched a movie where two people communicate just with their minds or where someone reads another person's thoughts to gain information? Have you ever wished you could do that? Telepathy (from the Greek "tele" meaning "far away" and "patheia" meaning "to be affected by") is communication between minds - but like all aspects of psychic ability, it's not exactly how it's depicted in the movies. However, it is possible to practice telepathy in real life; it's just subtler. You may have even done so without meaning to - for example, if you've ever been thinking about someone or really wishing to hear from someone, and soon after they call or text out of nowhere with no previous planning. This is a form of telepathic communication. The two of your minds were communicating without knowing it, causing the person who called you to make the decision to call - or maybe their decision to call is what brought them into your mind and got you thinking about them. It's no coincidence when things like this happen. There are always psychic channels at work in situations such as these, and like psychic premonitions, everyone has the ability to use telepathy; it's just an area in our mind that needs to be exercised but that most of us ignore or don't believe in due to how we were raised, the society or religion we were brought up in, etc.
When using telepathy, it may not be possible to carry out a full conversation with your BFF using just your minds, but you can transmit images, words, or feelings to one another. To start, let your friend know that you want to try communicating with them telepathically. This is important especially when you're beginning because you will both need to be in a relaxed, focused and receptive state. You can try meditating or deep breathing before to prepare so that your body and mind are relaxed. They don't have to be in the same room or space as you; they can be at their house or even in another town. Close your eyes and try to tune out any background noise or distractions, and really focus your thoughts on your friend. Visualize them clearly in your mind's eye - their essence, their presence, details of their physical features. Once you have solidified this visualization of them as if they are almost there with you, visualize the word, image or feeling you want to send to them. Solidify it, make it vivid in your mind's eye. Make it your mind's only 
 focus. Now visualize your friend, and visualize communicating this image to your friend. Imagine them receiving your message. They should have their mind open and receptive to your message at this point, and they should be visualizing you in their mind's eye. Once you've done this, relax, and let your message drift to the other person. Let it drift from your mind. At this time, you can relax your energy and focus. When the exercise is complete, follow up with them and ask them what they thought or saw in their mind's eye. Make sure to clarify that they shouldn't force any messages; they should just let their mind flow where it will and keep track of what may pop up. 
Don't get discouraged if it doesn't work right away. It will take practice and possibly many tries. This is just one way to begin practicing, but no matter how you practice or whom you practice with, stay relaxed (both physically and mentally) and keep your mind open and receptive for both sending and receiving messages. 
It's important to be in an environment that is totally comfortable, familiar and relaxing to you, to avoid the risk of distraction or being snapped out of your focus by strange noises, people, smells, etc. When you are just beginning your telepathy journey, and you've just started to practice, the best place to start is in your own home, maybe your bedroom or a room you find particularly relaxing. If your house is hectic and chaotic or you just can't feel relaxed there, try your backyard or a quiet park somewhere in a natural setting. Nature can help ground you and energize your powers. As long as it's a place you can tune out effectively, it should work.
The other commonly known aspect of telepathy is reading the minds of others. Telepathy is harder to practice on strangers, so again first practice with someone you are close with - a willing friend, family member, or partner. When attempting to read their mind, make sure to ask permission. Mind reading won't reveal to you a play by play of what they are thinking, but it will give you a vague idea, sense, or maybe a word or image related to what they are thinking about. Again, the same as with telepathic communication, you want to be in a setting that relaxes you. Close your eyes, tune everything out, and focus your energy on the person whose mind you are trying to read. Get the other person to picture something simple like a banana, and really focus on it. Obviously, they can't tell you what they are 
 thinking. Once they confirm they have solidified their image, visualize them, try and connect with their energy, and let your mind flow. They do not necessarily have to connect with you or be on the same energy level for this practice because, as opposed to if they were sharing their image with you via telepathic communication, mind reading is more of a one-way street/one-man job. Make a note of all the things that flowed easily - not forced - through your mind and check in with them to see if you got anything right. Say, for instance, you saw the color yellow, or smelled banana bread, or felt disgusted (maybe they hate bananas). Don't be discouraged if you didn't get anything right the first few times you try this. 
An additional way to practice with someone you know is to prepare yourself accordingly but then ask them a question out loud. Tell them not to answer it but just think about and process how they feel about it and what they would answer to it. It can't be a question you know or suspect the answer to. Right after you ask it, they will likely have an immediate reaction and/or thought, so assuming you're relaxed and your mind is receptive, see what enters your mind immediately after asking the question. Check in with them to see if you accurately picked up on anything.
Once you've built up from these exercises and think you are ready for a challenge, try mind reading next time you're on public transit or in a crowd somewhere. Do this as unobtrusively as you can. If you sense that someone's energy is really blocking you out and doesn't want to let anyone in, they want their privacy. Leave them be and try someone else who's perhaps more receptive. One common thing mind readers pick up on when reading minds are people's emotions. It's probably the easiest thing to access using telepathy, and you've probably read people's emotions telepathically before without even knowing it. It's important to distinguish body language and facial cues giving you information on someone, and telepathy providing that information. To remain unbiased and make sure telepathy is your only source of information, try to focus on someone's energy rather than looking at them/their appearance. You may focus on someone, trying to pick something up from them and feel a rush of worry wash over you. You may even pick up the reason why they are worried, though perhaps in a vague sense, and it may take more experience to get this specific.
In a way, mind reading is similar to psychometry, which we touched on in Chapter 2. You are trying to pick things up from a person: thoughts, emotions, images, etc. Except you can get a reading from them without actually touching them, which would be especially weird while practicing on a crowd of strangers in public. 
What's important to remember with telepathy is that patience is key. It is not going to click overnight; in fact, it may take quite a while before you effectively get the hang of it, so don't be hard on yourself if you don't find that you are successful right away. You also may feel energetically drained after a session. Don't draw your practice out for too long as telepathy really works out your brain and it may exhaust you. If a message isn't going through, just plan to try it again another day. Don't deplete your mental power. And remember: when practicing either telepathic communication or mind reading, do not look at that person's face directly (if possible), as facial features and movements may cloud your judgment, mental focus, and force the reading or interpretation. Try to do it as best as possible using only your mind, so if you get it right, you can be sure it was telepathy, and there was no bias involved.







Chapter 13: Aura
 and Aura reading
What are Auras
Most of us have been in a situation in which auras have been casually brought up in the conversation. Many people are left wondering what an aura is and what they mean. This confusion generally stems from a lack of understanding, and with so many different ideas about what an aura is, this is understandable. However, like most anything else, all it takes is a little education to make things much clearer. If you know about auras, the next time it is brought up in conversation you will have some correct information to share. You might also find that a lot of people will be very curious to hear what you have to say. There are many people interested in auras and aura reading than what you may think. There are still skeptics out there which make some people hesitant to ask questions or seek out information on their own.
On a fundamental level, it is the magnetic field surrounding every living thing that makes up an aura. A person's aura is unique and reflects their own particular energy, it is this energy that impacts their capacity to connect and interact with others. Most people's auras extend about three feet around them, but those who have suffered a tragedy or a trauma usually have a larger aura. Much of what we do in our lives leaves some type of mark on our aura, that is why experienced readers are able to tell so much about a person during a reading. Our aura is so intimately connected to both our minds and our bodies, that it is difficult to keep secrets from experienced readers. This is why it is good to choose a reader than you think you can trust and that you feel comfortable with.
The study of chakras is an ancient tradition and was often treated more like a visit to a doctor. It was known that the chakras held information about both our mental and physical health, so it would make sense to see someone about chakra alignment if there was an issue. Our auras originate from these chakras and therefore, can also reveal what ails us. Many people believe that getting regular aura 
 readings keeps them healthy because the aura can reflect some diseases or illnesses before more classic symptoms arise, increasing the likelihood of a speedy and full recovery.
Experienced aura readers do not even need to meet their subject in person in order to give a proper reading, they can just do it from a normal photograph. That is how deeply connected we are to our auras, they show up in regular photographs, meaning they must be pretty powerful for that to happen. Auras can always change, because they reflect our thoughts and emotions, so while some of the basic traits, both and good and bad remain the same, other aspects of our aura shift along with our moods and circumstances.
An aura is not one single unit lie a sheet, instead, it is made up of many different layers. The aura's layers interconnect and mingle that form the cohesive body that is known as the aura. Each layer of the aura holds different types of information, these are known as the subtle bodies. The energy created by the chakras are what create the auras. The size of a person's aura depends on their spiritual, emotional, and physical health, these auric layers will contract or increase depending on these facets.
Aura reading both visually and energetically is a useful skill for the psychic because it helps you get a sense of the person you're doing a reading for - what they're like as a person and what their current emotional and mental state is. You can pick up on any worries or reservations they may have, as well as what mood they're in coming into the reading. Having this knowledge can help you tailor the reading to the subject. As a psychic, you'll find that no two people, and therefore no two readings, will be the same. You may want to use different techniques, tools, and ways of explaining premonitions to someone based on the insights you have picked up from them.
 
Your aura is your energy field. It is a reflection of yourself and your current state of being. It can be weighed down and get clogged with negative energies, so here's how to cleanse and refresh it. 
First, you'll want to imagine your aura. You don't need to necessarily see any particular colors or light in your mind's eye, but just visualize it around you and focus on this knowledge that an 
 energy field surrounds you. You should be relaxed, and your eyes should be closed while doing this. Now, think of what negative interactions or thoughts you may have had or may have been directed towards you recently. Hanging on to these interactions is usually one of the big causes of aura blockage. Let them go. If you have to bring it up to someone and apologize or have an honest conversation with them, then do so. If not, then there is no reason for you to be carrying it with you. Imagine on every exhale you are letting go of a negative thought, worry, or stressor from your mind. Every time you inhale, you are reenergizing and reinvigorating your aura, bringing a renewed feeling to your once cluttered energy field, which is now a blank space again. You obviously can't eliminate everything from your aura; otherwise, there would be no essence of yourself in it anymore. What you're trying to do with this exercise is release all the negative clutter that can build up over time and make you feel dragged down, low in energy and even depressed. Do this exercise a few times to really clear out all the stagnation. You can find your own visualization technique - whatever will work best and be most effective for you. And try and take breaks from the chaos of life and responsibility. Spend extra time in nature or someplace that will make you feel comfortable and at peace. 
Your aura may also be stagnant because you are in a stagnant spot in your life. Do some deep digging and introspection to see if you can get to the bottom of this. Is there some aspect of your life that you don't like? Do you feel unfulfilled? Is it time for a change? No amount of deep breathing is going to answer these questions. If you think they are applicable to how you feel, you're going to have to tackle them, no matter how hard it may be. For your own wellbeing, you need to get to the bottom of what aspect of your life needs an adjustment. If you remain stuck energetically like this, it will also hinder your psychic abilities, making you feel too lethargic or low in energy to practice with your gift effectively. Take care of your aura as you would take care of your physical self. Treat your aura's blockages as you would treat an illness or a broken bone. 








Chapter 14: Mediumshi
 p

So far, we've talked about psychic reading. In this chapter, we will talk about medium reading. So what's the difference? Well, someone who does psychic readings may not have mediumistic abilities, which are acting as a vessel and a bridge of communication between the spirit world and the world of the living - but all mediums have psychic abilities, as this is what they use to contact the spirits of the dead. 
Mediumship or mediums may be a term you haven't heard before. As mentioned above, a medium is a person who is a bridge between the dead and the living. They can communicate with those that have passed over and convey messages to the living for them. If you've ever used a Ouija board, this is one form of mediumship, as you are contacting, or attempting to contact, the spirits of the dead - although Ouija boards are usually used as a form of entertainment more than anything serious. 
The forms of mediumship used by practicing mediums are when the spirit of the dead speaks through the medium, and when the medium receives messages clairvoyantly (or clairsentient, claircognizant, clairaudient) and relays the message to the living. Most often the medium is asked by a living person to try and contact and create a channel of communication with a dead loved one because they miss them and/or because there is unfinished business or unanswered questions between them and they want a sense of closure. The spirit of the dead loved one likely feels the same so that these sessions can be very healing. 
If you wish to become a medium, an intermediary between the spirit world and the living, you will need to have a strong hold on the four intuitive types (even if you favor one more than the others) as the messages will come through, and you will perceive them via clairvoyance, clairaudience, clairsentience or claircognizance. This is something to try once you've been practicing your psychic abilities for a while and feel confident. You can still be on a beginner's path, but make sure you've got the basics down. If you feel that you are a natural psychic medium, someone who has sensed the presence of spirits of the dead from a young age, then you may already have an idea of how to communicate and use these spirit 
 channels. This is not a necessity to becoming a medium, however. 
If you know any mediums, or if you find that there is a local practicing medium you can get in touch with, ask them about their craft. How does it feel to communicate with spirits? When did they start or when did they first notice they had this ability? What are some examples of mediumistic experiences they've had? You can also search online to read first-hand experiences from mediums if there are none you can contact where you live. Just be careful that the person you are learning from is not a scam artist, as the world of psychic practice is rife with frauds looking to exploit people for money. 
To begin practice towards contacting spirits, you must be in a state of total relaxation. Find a calm, comfortable spot, without bright lights. Feel the energy of the universe flowing through you, and relax your mind, letting other thoughts that poke at you to fade away. Now it's time to call upon the spirits. Before you do this next step, make sure you've mastered psychic protection against negative spirits and entities as it's possible to accidentally invite a negative spirit into your home (see Chapter 3 for more information). To help reduce the risk of a negative spirit entering your space, think of a specific deceased loved one of yours that you would like to contact (this can also be a pet). That way your call is not extended to any spirit who happens to be around. They are not invited, only your loved one's spirit is. Now call upon them out loud. Ask them into your space and maybe ask a question of them or ask if they have anything to communicate. Call upon them mentally too. Summon up an image of them in your mind, quite detailed, and mentally welcome them into space. If you feel their presence, ask them a question you have prepared beforehand. You may sense them in different ways, whether you smell the cologne they used to wear, hear their laugh or a song they used to sing, see their favorite color or a piece of clothing they used to wear in your mind's eye, or a sudden shift of emotion where you feel warm and full of love. These are just examples to show you that the way you sense them may not be seeing their image speaking to you in your mind's eye. The way they answer the questions may be through images that must be interpreted or through words you see or hear in your mind. If you answer a question and get a strong emotion immediately afterward, 
 this may also be a response. Or if they answer claircognizant, then you will just know the answer. Remember not to force or make up their presence or answers. Just let them flow, and if they don't show up or answer any questions, then that's okay. Just keep reaching out and practicing and stay relaxed. If you pick up nothing, don't force it. Release and try again another time. 
You can also try practicing as a medium for a friend, and you can call upon the spirit of their loved one, asking the spirit any questions your friend may have of them. If you really want to challenge yourself, don't ask your friend who the person they want to contact us. Go in blind. Ask them only to picture and think about the person they wish to contact. Keep your mind clear and relaxed, and be open and receptive to any energies and messages you may receive. If images or feelings start popping up, describe them to your friend. You can go online and look up videos of psychics in action to see how this is done. For example, if you're sitting there with an empty mind and all of a sudden, a figure of a man pops into your mind, and then the color red, and then the concept of Thanksgiving dinner, and the smell of cigarettes you would say, "I'm seeing a man, now the color red, and something to do with Thanksgiving. I also smell cigarettes." You obviously will not know what this means, so ask your friend if it has any significance for them. After all, when acting as a medium, the message isn't for you but for the other person, the one the spirit of the dead is connected to. If this is a legitimate message your friend will get it right away, and if they feel like it, they can tell you what it means to them. Maybe the man was their uncle whose favorite color or shirt or car was red, and he always hosted a big family Thanksgiving at his house - it was an annual family tradition. And he smoked which was a familiar and comforting reminder of his presence to all who knew him. This is an example of how a medium reading may progress. You may hear words or phrases from the deceased as well which you should relay to the living person. Tell them everything you see and hear in your message, even if it may not make sense to you, as it may make sense and be important to them. If not, then just keep going. You probably won't get everything right, especially since you are just beginning, so just keep telling them what you are sensing and make sure you aren't forcing these messages. Make sure they are coming to you naturally and clearly from the spirit you have contacted. 








Chapter 15: How to Boost Your Psychic Abilitie
 s

Although you have psychic potential, you still have to train yourself so that your skills may become finely tuned. The following are some tips to help you enhance your psychic abilities:
Meditate everyday
Meditation allows you to raise your vibration. The spirit energy vibrates at a high frequency. Through meditation, you can heighten your mental and spiritual powers and become capable of performing even greater psychic acts. Meditation is not a resource-intensive activity. You can pull it off almost anywhere. You just require a serene environment and some free time. 
Communicate with your spirit guide
Your spirit guide is basically an entity that protects you. They also enlighten you and make you insightful. When you call on their support, you will increase your chances of achieving what you desire. Have a sacred place in which you meet your spirit guide. 
Use psychometry
Psychometry is the practice of decoding the energies of an object. If you can become skilled in this discipline, you will receive a tremendous boost to your psychic abilities. Acquire an object that has sentimental value - e.g., a wedding band - and try to envision the energies of the owner. 
Flower visualization
To have strong psychic abilities, you have to improve your mind's eye. You can achieve this through flower visualization. The exercise entails picking up a few flowers and holding them in front of you. Now close your eyes and start envisioning each of them separately. 
Random visualization
When you are done using the flower to strengthen your mind's eye, you may now explore some randomness. Just close your eyes and lie on your back in a serene environment and invite your spirit guides to show you many great wonders of the universe. Your spirit 
 guides should show you magnificent images and videos. 
Take a walk in nature
Psychics feel a tremendous connection with nature. You could take a stroll in a nature park while practicing mindful meditation. Take occasional stops by sweet-smelling flowers and savor their beauty. Lose yourself to the beauty of nature. 
Eliminate negativity
You cannot tap into your psychic powers if you harbor tons of negativity. Eliminate your negativity by heightening your self-awareness and being more forgiving to yourself. You also have to take the necessary steps to right the wrongs you have done. Once you're free of negativity, you're in the right headspace to employ your psychic powers. 
Believe in yourself
You cannot become a skilled clairvoyant unless you have tremendous belief in yourself. One of the ways of increasing your self-belief is through reading about those before you who have succeeded. Find books written by successful clairvoyants and read about them so that you can become familiar with their stories. Learn their tricks. The more you study about successful clairvoyants, the higher your odds of becoming successful yourself. 
Rest
Quality rest is absolutely necessary. The more you rest, the more energy you have to channel into your psychic activities. One of the best ways to ensure quality rest is by getting enough sleep. You should get at least six hours of sleep every night. This will ensure that your mind is well rested and you're in top physical condition. Having enough rest is crucial for the development of your clairvoyant skills. 
Try to read other people's thoughts
This is a perfect way of strengthening your clairvoyant abilities. When you encounter someone, just gaze into their eyes and try to imagine what they are thinking about. If you can accurately read people's minds, then you can rest assured that your psychic abilities are very well developed. 
Keep track of your dreams
People with psychic abilities tend to dream a lot. After each dream, ensure you have noted it down on a journal. This will help you keep track of the dreams that came true. When you realize that your dreams are starting to become true, it indicates that your clairvoyant abilities are getting fine-tuned. 
Improve your remote-viewing capability
Remote-viewing is the ability to view a place or an event through your mind's eye without you being physically present. To improve your ability of remote-viewing, you have to make good use of your imagination. Start with viewing places near you, and when you get them right, you can move on to far-flung places and objects. 
Overcome your fears
If you have any fear in your mind, you will not achieve your full potential as a clairvoyant. You have to eliminate the fear to be able to channel all your mental energies in your psychic activities. The first step toward eliminating fear is to increase your knowledge. The more you know about a situation, the less ignorant you are and the more power and courage you acquire. 
Resolve your differences with those around you
If you have problems with other people, ensure that you resolve them. You cannot achieve your full clairvoyant potential when you are not at peace with yourself or other people. Cast away the burden of bitterness and resolve your differences with those around you. This way, your mind is in a position to channel its energies into psychic activities. 
Practice seeing auras
This is another great exercise for improving your psychic abilities. Have your friend stand next to a plain-colored wall. Then, look at them using your third eye. Notice if you get to see their auric field. If they have a high vibration, their aura will appear bright. 
Ask a friend to call you
Contact your friend telepathically and ask them to give you a call. The more mental energy you invest in this activity, the more likely your friend will call you.
If an empath developed their psychic potential, they could end up becoming so skilled that a career along that line would be in order. 








Chapter 16: How to Embrace Being an Empat
 h

Living as an empowered empath is the main goal as you want to be able to use your gifts to their fullest for the betterment of yourself and those around you. You will have to develop a daily routine in order to maintain your level of empowerment. The first key to this success is to stop any negative self-talk. You want to get to a point where you are content with who you are and what your unique gifts bring to the table.
There are many ways to live as an empowered empath; however, here are the top ten steps on getting to that point:

You have to love yourself.
Take notice of your accomplishments.
Make time to be alone.
Maintain a healthy diet.
Use crystals as well as meditation.
Learn how to set and enforce boundaries.
Focus on practicing self-awareness.
Stay away from toxic people.
Create clear goals.

                     
 Establish a routine.


You have to love yourself.
 It is important that you have to find a way to love yourself. No more negative self-talk. Follow your gut instead of listening to others. Do not take on other people's emotions, and surround yourself with those that support and love you for who you are. Make a list of the attributes that you love about yourself and remind yourself daily. If you are feeling down, make a point to turn a negative into a positive. If you do not love yourself, it will be difficult to live an empowered life. If you ever doubt yourself, doubt what you are doing with your life, take note of what you have already accomplished.

Take notice of your accomplishments.
 If you have had any accomplishment in your life, write it down. Take note of even the smallest accomplishments. For instance, when you were in a bout of 
 depression two months ago, you were able to get out of bed and clean your house. This may seem small, but if you find yourself getting back in that place, you will see that you have already climbed out of that space before, and you can do it again. Other accomplishments could include graduating from college, purchasing a new home, getting the new job you have been searching for, and rescuing four dogs. When you are able to recognize what you have accomplished in your life, you are more likely to feel empowered from it and for your future.

Make time to be alone.
 We have talked about alone time a few times so far. This is because we need it and actually thoroughly enjoy it. If it makes us happy and refreshed, then spend as much time alone as you need. While we tend to focus on everyone else around us, we need to shut that off at times and focus on ourselves.

Maintain a healthy diet.
 Food translates into energy itself; therefore, if you do not want a bunch of negative energy festering inside of you, cut down on junk foods. Yes, every now and then will not kill us, but make sure you try to eat plenty of fruits and vegetables to maintain a healthy diet.

Use crystals.
 Crystals can be a source of clarity and calm when you need to rejuvenate your energy zone. One of the most popular stones for grounding and blocking negative energy is tourmaline.

Learn how to set and enforce boundaries.
 Boundaries can be difficult to set, especially if it is with a loved one. But we are typically bad at setting boundaries no matter who it is. If you do not learn how to set boundaries, you will end up in pain, drained, and burned out.

Focus on practicing self-awareness.
 The more you become aware of your own energy, the more you will be able to figure out and decipher between someone else's. If you are ever in a situation where you suddenly feel terrible internally, take a moment to figure out whether that is coming from you or someone else.

Stay away from toxic people.
 This can be difficult because empaths are typically sought out by master manipulators. It is as if they can sense it. If you are in tune with your body, you will feel when someone just is not right. If you do feel that way, run for the hills.

Create clear goals.

 Make known to yourself what your purpose in life is. If you enjoy helping others, make it a point to try to make a living out of it. Be honest with yourself and know your limits when you are setting goals for yourself; make them attainable and grow from there.

Establish a routine.
 Routine will help you maintain a level of stability even if it is just in the morning so you can clear yourself for the rest of the day. A few ideas would be to wake up early to meditate, make a list of items that need to be completed that day, have breakfast, shower, and get to work. Your routine may be different; do what works best for you in order to function throughout the day.
The more in tune you are to making sure the above items are maintained, the more empowered and peaceful your life will be. Make sure to focus on yourself and your awareness in order to protect you from toxic people. Maintain your energy, love yourself, and the rest will fall into place.
How to Become an Assertive Empath
Many empaths were raised in such a way that we subconsciously have the urge to help and please everyone around us. As children, we were most likely given the idea of being a good person if we followed orders from a parent or teacher. If we did not follow those orders, we associate it with a form of punishment, hence how the people-pleasing behaviors came about in order to avoid punishment or letting others down. There is a way to balance being an empath while also being assertive. When you are assertive, you are claiming your views and putting forth the right to do so in a confident manner. Basically, being assertive means that you are speaking up for yourself, you are making your thoughts known, and you effectively speak out about your concerns, wishes, and ideas. When you do this, you want to make sure that you are being considerate of others and respectful of other people's emotions and personal boundaries. There are plenty of kind ways to say, "I appreciate you asking me. However, I am unavailable to help at this time." That way, you are not setting yourself up for even more stress.
The most important way to become more assertive as an empath include the following:

Set boundaries.
Try not to take things personally.
Express feelings by writing in an assertive tone.
Maintain and control your own happiness.
Focus on how you are presenting yourself.


Set boundaries.
 Setting boundaries is particularly difficult for empaths. We tend to want to make sure everyone is happy. Thus, if they ask for help, we will fit it in our schedule. When you recognize that you are getting into an unhealthy relationship or notice that you are always trying to save, help, or change people, you have to stop before you are the one that gets hurt. Nine times out of ten, you will be the one to get hurt or used. If those around you understand who you are or respect you, they will not mind when you need time to recharge. They should understand that it means nothing against them. If they are not able to understand, then they are not the type of people that you need to be around in the first place.

Try not to take things personally.
 If someone happens to ignore you one time, you will be wondering why they are mad at you until either it is addressed or you forget about it. It may have been a misunderstanding. In fact, most instances are not intentional; however, you worry about whether or not someone is mad at you.

Express your feelings by writing in an assertive tone.
 Writing can be good in many ways, especially if you have been hurt or are holding on to past trauma. If you are assertive in any way, start with it in writing. Write what you want to express and express it how you need to in order to feel better.

Maintain and control your own happiness.
 It is important not to depend on other people when it comes to what makes you happy. If you do depend on others to make you happy, then you will most likely be disappointed every time.

Focus on how you are presenting yourself.
 Make sure you focus on how you are portraying yourself. You do not want to be so humble that people recognize that and perceive you as a weak person. For instance, if you use too many emojis, you may be seen as insecure and that you want to be liked.
Being an empath can be a struggle; however, there are ways to reduce the possibilities of being taken advantage of and keep those boundaries in place for your own well-being. One of the most difficult things for an empath to say is the word "no." The fear of confrontation and upsetting anyone else is where this stems from. People do not want to say no, as they do not want to upset or hurt the other person. Even when an empath does say no, they tend to worry about the fact that they did, and it does become stressful and overwhelming. We want to be liked, and we want to help, so we typically say yes to anything and everything in order to keep the peace with those around us, even if it means that we will be run into the ground.
Being assertive is not a bad trait. It can be used as a tool in order to manage your obligations to the point where you are not setting yourself up to be drained. Being assertive is somewhat an art. You have to make sure you maintain a level of consideration and respect for other people's feelings. I may be mistaken with passive-aggressive behavior, but it is distinct because you are focusing on other people's needs as well as your own. Once you master the art of being assertive, you will be able to control your life in a stress-free manner that works for you.
Learning How to Set Boundaries
All empaths cringe when they are told to set boundaries. Most likely, people have told you that a few times, especially if you are seeing a counselor. But you most likely will not enforce or put any boundaries in place until you get hurt when you least expect it. Usually, after a traumatic event, you will then think a bit clearer, and it is at that time that you will actively seek to put boundaries in place to avoid further trauma. The best ways to set boundaries are as follows:

Focus on how you feel around certain people.
Utilize the word "no."
Become comfortable with saying no.
If you become overwhelmed, leave the scene.
Take time for yourself.
Create an imaginary bubble.


Focus on how you feel around certain people.
 If you are near certain people and they drain the life out of you or you get agitated immediately in their presence, it is best to avoid those people. What you need to do is find which environments make you anxious, tired, drained, or overwhelmed. In these environments, it may not just be that you can recognize the moods of other people, but you look at others conversing and pick up on the vibe of their conversation. If you find yourself dreading situations where certain people will be, do what is best for you and try to avoid it.

Utilize the word "no."
 Say no to people if you do not have any more energy to give. Do not deplete yourself for anyone because, if the tables were turned, most likely, they would not for you.

Become comfortable with saying no.
 Saying no and actually becoming comfortable with it are two completely different dinosaurs. Anyone can say no. It is following through and being comfortable with it that can be difficult.

If you become overwhelmed, leave the scene.
 If you are in any situation where you are picking up bad vibes by someone or multiple people, get out! If you are out in a public place and are extremely overwhelmed by the environment, you should excuse yourself and go to the bathroom or for a short walk to remove yourself from the situation. The last thing you want is to have anxiety hit you when you are in a public space with other people. There is no need for you to sit in a place where you are feeling terrible because of the people around you.

Take time for yourself.
 This has been said multiple times, and if it is said many times, then it is true. You need to take time to recharge your energy. Do what is best for you, such as walking, yoga, meditation, napping, watching television, or whatever helps you relax. You need to make sure you are taking time for yourself to do what calms you in order to maintain your energy and health.

Create an imaginary bubble.
 This may sound silly, but if you can imagine that you have a protective shield around you, you may feel a bit more safe than usual. Act as if nothing will hurt you and that you are in control of yourself and your own choices. Do not let toxic people break through to get to you.
Setting boundaries will only upset those who have been taking advantage of you, so pay attention to who has an issue when you do stick to your guns and focus on protecting yourself. Those are the types of people you will want to watch out for the most!
How to Become an Extroverted Empath
Extroverted empaths do exist, and while rare, they have to battle the balancing act between the two. There are many problems that extroverted empaths go through. A few are the following:
●      
 They desire human connection because they are extroverts, but because they are empaths, the more they interact, the more they drain themselves.
●      
 Due to their extrovert nature, they can understand the feelings of a lot of people simultaneously. But they are empaths as well, so they know the intricate details of many people at the same time.
●      
 They are extroverts, so they love to know about the experiences of other people, but this isn't on a superficial level. They want to know about other people on a deeper level because they are empaths as well.
●      
 People think that, because they are extroverts, they don't need much time alone. However, because they are empaths, they want to be alone sometimes.
The balance between wanting to have human connection and needing to have alone time for health and well-being is definitely a complicated mix. You may go through periods of time when you are craving time out of the house, but there are plenty of times that you crave being at home in your own space. If you have a few good friends, they will understand how you operate after a while, and to them, it is okay because they are true friends. Those who do not understand might need to be explained what goes on with your balancing act. If they still do not understand, it would be right to analyze that relationship.
So how do we deal with this complicated balancing act of being an extrovert and empath? Here are a few ways to assist:

Use breathing techniques.
Block emotions that do not belong to you.
Ground and focus on yourself.
Take regular breaks.
Be alone but with people.


Use breathing techniques.
 It is important to become aware of yourself, how you operate, what you are feeling at any given time, and how your body needs to recover. When we practice breathing techniques, it allows us to be more in touch with ourselves and aware of our senses. When you familiarize yourself with this technique, you will be able to recognize when your energy needs rejuvenating.

Block emotions that do not belong to you.
 The more people you interact with, the more you will absorb their energies. For example, the sadness you have been feeling actually belongs to your neighbor who recently lost their mother. The more you block other people's energies, the better off you will be as you will save your own energy and reduce stress and anxiety. Moreover, this will help you manage your feelings in a healthy way.

Ground and focus on yourself.
 Grounding is a form of meditation that focuses on your body in relation to the ground. For example, if you are sitting on the floor, you should focus on feeling your body touching the floor. Focusing on this will eliminate all other outside elements. The last thing you want to do is carry around other people's energy. It will leave you drained, exhausted, overwhelmed, and ungrounded. The moment you start to feel this way, you should make sure to center your awareness back to yourself. Then you need to ground and focus on getting back into a peaceful place. When we are able to regain focus on ourselves, we are also able to release the energy from others that we have been carrying around.

Take regular breaks.
 Relaxing can be good for your mind and body. Having some time to yourself to do what you wish will give your mood an uplift, as well as your energy. Empaths need to take breaks in order to replenish themselves. Replenishing yourself is of the utmost importance, so make sure that you first recognize when you need it, and make time to take a break.

Be alone but with people.
 While we do love people, we may not always want to interact with them. Most of us do love to people-
 watch as well, so get yourself to a public place where you do not know anyone, and take in the scenery. When we are in a public place without having to interact with others but observe, it is easier to block out their energies and focus on our own.
Extroverted empaths have the balancing act of craving human connection and feeling drained from connecting. It comes and goes in waves. At times, we want to be near people a lot, and at other times, we need to be alone. The more you are in tune with how your mind and body operate, the more harmonious the balancing act will be.







Chapter 17: Common Myths That Psychic Empaths Should Never Believ
 e
As if being highly sensitive to the energy around you is not already a big responsibility, you will also have to contend with a lot of misconceptions about you. As an empath, you really have a big calling on your hands and you need to understand that not everyone will understand this. You might be labeled as being too emotional or too dramatic. You might even be accused of being one of the energy vampires that you are so keen to eliminate from your life. Understanding the many misconceptions that people have in regard to empaths is the first step towards gently educating those around you. Even if you do not feel like being the myth buster in your circle, you can still learn to differentiate the myths from the facts for your own sake. Knowledge is power and having knowledge about yourself is one of the most powerful things you can do for yourself. 

Myth #1
 : Psychic empaths are extremely self-absorbed and only worry about themselves. 

Fact:
 Psychic empaths often care about others more than they care about themselves. 
From the outside looking in, the moodiness and emotional nature of a psychic empath can come across as the disposition of a person who is only concerned with how they are feeling. The truth of the matter is that a psychic empath is more likely to be moody because of the people around them, and not because of their own emotions. It is easy to be judgmental towards a psychic empath because of how they carry themselves. They are often quiet and reserved and will not want to come out to play too often. This might be interpreted to mean that they do not care about interacting with others and only worry about themselves. The truth is that while the empath might want to be a ray of sunshine to everyone else, they often find themselves incapable because of the overwhelming feelings they go through when dealing with different energies given out by others. 

Myth #2:
 Psychic empaths are just mentally ill. 

Fact:

 Being highly sensitive is not a mental illness. 
Many empaths make for good listeners and confidants based on their ability to empathize and truly feel for others. Because of this, empaths often find themselves the designated dumping ground for all emotional baggage. When you are burdened with the emotional problems of others, it is easy to become depressed and anxious, which might cause others to assume you are mentally ill. Many times, empaths are just sad because of all the emotional burden that they have to shoulder. This immense sadness may mimic the signs of a person that is going through clinical depression. Yes, there are instances when an empath may be diagnosed with depression, but this is not simply because they are highly sensitive. There are numerous factors that must be present for one to be diagnosed with depression. These factors are not exclusive to an empath. They can affect just about anyone, especially those who are genetically predisposed to the same. 

Myth #3:
 Empaths are psychologically weak

Fact:
 The moments of "weakness" that empaths exhibit are as a result of all the negative energy that they have to deal with. 
What might be normal to a typical non-empath may be extremely difficult to the empath. Take, for instance, holding down an office job. For the person that is not highly sensitive to the energy of other people, an office job is just another opportunity to earn a paycheck and advance in their career. For the empath, an office job means being constantly bombarded by the negative energy from all sides. As such, an empath might struggle to hold down a normal 9 to 5 job, while this is just another workday for everyone else. When this happens, the empath might be accused of being weak, lazy, fussy or just unwilling to try. This could not be further from the truth. Being an empath is hard work. Imagine walking through life everyday while someone carries a huge ball that they hit you with every time you take one step. This is how it feels to be an empath. You are constantly being hit by a big ball of negative energy and you must lift yourself up every time you fall from this hit. After a while, it can be easier to stay on the ground because you have run out of energy to lift yourself up. As an empath, it is important to remember that you 
 are not psychologically frail. Being able to deal with other people's negative energy on a daily basis and showing up in the world even though you know what's coming, takes a whole lot of strength. 

Myth #4:
 Empaths are emotionally volatile 

Fact:
 Being exposed to varying emotional energy can make you more in control of your emotions. 
People who believe that empaths are emotionally volatile base their arguments on the fact that empaths are often exposed to various energies, which might interfere with how emotionally stable they are. True, it is common for an empath to be moody, but this does not mean that they are always going to lash out when provoked. Many empaths are often moody when they retreat into themselves to introspect on the emotions that they have picked up. This does not make them a volatile person who is at the mercy of their emotions. It is possible for an empath to be highly stable when it comes to their feelings and those of others. In fact, an empath can easily learn how to be calm and in control regardless of those around them by understanding how to process and shield the energy that surrounds them. Some of the calmest and collected people that exist in this world are actually empaths. They have learned to read people and so nothing really takes them by surprise. 

Myth #5:
 Most empaths are cold and detached from everyone else. 

Fact:
 Detachment is a side effect of being emotionally drained. 
Many empaths who come across as detached do not become so because they intended to. It is often as a result of being emotionally abused by people around them. When they cannot take it anymore, an empath may become numb as a way of protecting themselves. It is not correct to assume that an empath is cold and unfeeling simply because they are an empath. Even the most outwardly detached empaths tend to have a light of empathy flickering deep inside of them. Empathy is not something you can switch on and off at will. If you care about other people, you will always care about them regardless of where you go or what you do. 

Myth #6:

 Empaths are often highly dependent on their loved ones. 

Fact:
 Empaths like for positive energy to flow both ways. 
When an empath finds a source of positive energy, that source becomes an asset that they can draw their strength from. This is why empaths really thrive when they are deeply and genuinely loved. However, unlike energy vampires, empaths realize the need for the flow of positive energy to be two-sided. They love giving as much as they enjoy taking. You are not likely to find an empath that loves leeching on their loved ones. It is also important to note that empaths are not really dependent on positive energy from other people to survive. They are capable of doing it all on their own, as long as they learn how to protect from negative energy around them. If you are an empath, you do not have to worry about being a leech to others. As long as nobody is complaining, and as long as you can feel the good, positive energy flowing both ways, then it is safe to assume that the people in your life love you and the presence you bring. 

Myth #7:
 Empaths are just glorified doormats.

Fact:
 With the right boundaries, an empath can care about others without feeling used. 
Sure enough, empaths struggle with saying no. Empaths often want to take care of others and struggle with the guilt of feeling as if they are not helpful. It is effortless for an empath to find themselves relegated to the role of a doormat if they have not set the limits and boundaries for other people. This; however, does not mean that all sensitive people are just pushovers that allow anyone and everything in their lives. Empaths who are conscious of their powers and abilities know that it is easy for others to take advantage of them.  As such, they often have ways of managing the people in their lives and striking the balance between being helpful and being everyone's doormat. 

Myth #8:
 Empaths are all good people. 

Fact:
 Being highly sensitive does not automatically qualify you for 
 decency. 
The question of whether a person is good or bad can only be answered after evaluating the choices that the person makes, and not as a factor of their genetic predisposition. Just because a person has been born as an empath does not mean they will always be a good person. An empath is a human being who is capable of hurting others and even making bad choices based on the prevailing circumstances in their life. While it is true that many empaths are often not manipulative people, it is also true that they are just humans and have the choice to be bad or good just like everyone else. 

Myth #9:
 Empaths take to narcissists like moths to a light. 

Fact:
 The relationship between empaths and narcissists is complex. 
It has been said that opposites attract, and this could never be overstated in the case of narcissists and empaths. Empaths are the complete opposite of narcissists, and when these two categories of people meet there are often fireworks. Why is this so? Is it because the empath is keen on healing the narcissist? In many cases, the empath is not even aware that they are dealing with a narcissist. This might seem like a contradiction because after all, empaths are supposed to be intuitive and highly capable of reading other people's energy and intentions. Narcissism is a personality disorder that brings forth individuals who are highly manipulative. At the beginning of a relationship, the narcissist might make it seem as if they are the healer that the empath needs. As such, the empath will gravitate towards the narcissist because they seem kind and decent and loving. The narcissist, on the other hand, will pursue the empath because they love the adoration that the empath is able to give so freely. The narcissist-empath relationship evolves to become a highly toxic relationship where the empath keeps on giving and forgiving, while the narcissist cannot stop taking and creating chaos because that is what they thrive in. There is often never a happy ending when a narcissist and an empath meet and fall in love. 

Myth #10:
 All empaths are introverted. 

Fact:

 Empaths can be introverted, or not. 
Empaths do not all come in one size. There are different sides to an empath. Some are introverted, some are extroverted, while some are ambiverts. In all fairness, the extroverted empath is rarer than the introverted empath. However, reliable sightings point to the existence of the paradox that is an empath who is extroverted. Being extroverted is more of a personality trait than anything else. As such, you can be a person that loves to be around people and at the same time be highly capable of tuning into the emotions of those people. An extroverted empath gets to live a very conflicting life in that they want to interact with people but at the same time, they do not want to be overwhelmed by it. This is unlike the case of the introverted empath who could not care much for crowds. If you are an extroverted empath, you will need to be careful about how much you take in from others before wearing yourself down. For every two or so hours spent in a crowd, make sure you take some time to catch your breath and process out the negative energy from your body. 

Myth #11:
 You can quit being an empath. 

Fact:
 Being an empath is a life-long sentence. 
Many empaths would love to be able to wake up one day and find that their empathic abilities are all gone. It can be overwhelming to be the resident empath, and sometimes you will feel that you need a break from all the caring. Unfortunately, if you are born an empath there simply is no way out of it. Instead of fighting your power, the best thing you can do for yourself is to learn how to harness it for your own good, and for the good of those around you. For example, you can train yourself to learn how to distinguish your emotions from those of others so that you do not carry emotional loads that do not belong to you. You may not be able to stop being an empath, but you sure can learn how to carry this gift without breaking your back. 

Myth #12:
 Empaths are victims of childhood trauma. 

Fact:
 Trauma is not a prerequisite for empathy. 
Some people believe that the only way a person can be as emotional as the empath typically is if that person has gone through some form of childhood trauma. It is wrong to assume that a person who is sensitive towards others and in regard to their own emotions is automatically coming from a place of great suffering. True, there are empaths who have suffered greatly at the hands of those who were supposed to love and protect them. However, it is inaccurate to think that the driving force behind empathy is trauma. Some people are simply born with the ability to be highly sensitive. What happens to them as they grow up is a whole different matter.







Conclusio
 n
You should now feel more comfortable with the idea of psychic phenomena. Maybe you have learned to recognize this ability within yourself, and put it into practice to enrich your life. Have you discovered any abilities you share with your friends? In many cases, it happens that people with similar psychic strengths are drawn to each other, whether they recognize it at the time or not. Now that you know that you have the potential, you can learn more about your gifts and how to benefit from them. 
You have now acquired a vocabulary of essential terms and concepts that you can carry forward to explore the different aspects of the metaphysical world, and communicate your interest to friends, teachers, and loved ones. The community of people who are open to psychic influences is immense and covers our whole shared history as humans, and all the territory we occupy. You can find people to speak with and study these influence
s, everywhere you go. 
The study of crystals, gemstones, and their influence on us, presents a rich variety of topics. From the health benefits to the history of the earth, the beauty and symbolism of stones connect us to our oldest and best selves.  
Practice the exercises in this book as often as you can. Breathing exercises, visualizations, and meditation can all help improve your health and emotional well-being, independent of the impressions and observations you record. If you'd like to go further, there are many schools of meditation and spiritual health where you can learn about the energy fields of the body, the chakras and the organization of the breath, and the many ways in which the physical and metaphysical worlds are paralleled and linked. 
Last, but not least, we hope you have made a decision and a promise to trust yourself more often, listen to what you tell yourself, pay attention to the things you think are important, and value your observations. 









GUIDED SELF-HEALING MEDITATIONS


Chakras for Beginners, Deep Sleep Techniques, Anxiety in Relationship, Stress, Depression therapy, Panic Attacks, Breathing, insomnia, Awakening Secrets, and Mindfulness

By
Spiritual Awakening Academy









Introductio
 n

Meditation is an easy method to quiet your mind, relax, and to escape the stress of daily life. It does not require advanced techniques to learn. Meditation doesn't even require long hours to master. Quite simply, meditation allows you to calm down, to relax, and to gain insight. 
Meditation involves quieting the constant babble of our thoughts. This sounds simple, but it's not. Right now, stop thinking for ten seconds. You'll find yourself thinking about those ten seconds and why you're supposed to stop thinking. It's natural for our minds to question and to analyze. Even when we sleep, our brains are active. Our bodies may be resting, but dreams are proof that our minds are not quiet. Meditation lets the body AND mind relax. When that happens, we gain a peaceful experience of calm and insight. 
Meditation is one of the best ways to unlock the power of the subconscious and deepen the connection between conscious and subconscious. The deep sense of relaxation brought about by meditation facilitates filtering out distracting thoughts and allows you to concentrate only on the subconscious. When you allow a fresh lease of positive thoughts into the subconscious mind, negative information is replaced by more constructive thoughts and ideas. The mind is relaxed and receptive, open to assimilating positive information to replace negative imprints that have been accumulated over a period of time.  
It won't be achieved overnight. However, with consistent and disciplined practice, you will be able to successfully reprogram the subconscious to hold thoughts, ideas, and information that hold a positive purpose in your life. You are slowly able to break the control of negative thoughts over your actions and let positive thoughts rule.  
Take a bunch of successful people from different fields and carefully notice what they have in common with each other. One of the things that will stand out is their thoughts or beliefs. They have successfully empowered themselves with virtues such as will-power, self-control, persistence, and discipline.  
There is an inner drive that pushes them to accomplish their goals. 
 Our subconscious mind is the potent inner drive that helps unlock our true potential. There are plenty of people who are equally, if not more talented, that these successful people. However, not everyone enjoys their level of success. Why? Simply because successful people have mastered the unlocking of their true potential through the power of their thoughts or mind!  
Meditation is the key to unlocking the power of your subconscious mind and using it to fulfill your dreams.  








Chapter One: History Of Meditatio
 n

Meditation is slowly becoming a common practice in which many people see it differently. Perception is an individual's choice, and without knowledge and understanding, many would have different opinions about something. It is common for people to get to a place of familiarization with the practices and beliefs that they have previously believed to be meditation. An example is when people say meditation is a way of making the mind quiet; yet, that is not what meditation is about.
Several books have been written that relate to the meditation subject. Even so, confusion may arise because they have been written from the point of views dependent on standards and beliefs of a specific religions or philosophies. Some have made statements and values about meditation that sound like general laws, but generally meditation is a highly accurate procedure that is exclusive to a specific system of practice.
What Meditation Is Not?

There are several misconceptions about meditation which include:

Meditation is just a relaxation technique - It should be well understood that meditation is not relaxation. A good example is when we sleep, sleeping and relaxing are not the same, but the critical connection is when we sleep, the result is relaxation. The same principle applies to meditation, one of the outcomes of meditation is relaxing when one sits straight for a specific period of time and relax that does not end the duality nature of the mind. It is essential to understand that relaxing is one of the beneficial results of meditation. It relaxes you, rejuvenates and makes one calm giving a sense of serenity.


Meditation is meant for people on a spiritual search - Contrary to the misconception, meditation is for anybody wishing to tap into its manifold of benefits. One of the primary purposes is the ability to yield a relaxed mood making one aware of who they are without much effort. It is a vital tool for everyone because anyone and everyone would wish to know more about themselves without having to depend on someone else to tell them, and this is only achievable through meditation.


Meditation is not concentration or contemplation - When one focuses on something or concentrates, they are merely narrowing the awareness. One can only focus on one specific object after the exclusion of everything else. Meditation is all-inclusive as your consciousness is expanded. When one meditates, they become aware but not of anything specific or particular. Meditation is simply one of the forms of concentration. Concentration makes one to always project their attention towards a specific task or activity while in meditation. The idea of projection of your attention to a particular job or business is not there. What meditation is capable of doing is giving one the ability to remain aware of the moment without selecting anything, in particular, to concentrate upon. Concentration is an art that helps one when learning meditation, especially at the initial stages, but it is not meditation.


Meditation is not a religious practice - Perception has it that the sitting in a particular posture, chanting some specific, compelling words with a phonetic significance and the burning of essence is meditation. Meditation is neither the art of doing a particular exercise in a specific posture for a specific length of time. It is true that one has to take some time and give it some genuine effort and dedication for one to learn meditation, but that does not make it a religion or ritual. Meditation is simply the quality of one's existence which occurs when one gets to be aware of their true self and ae able 
 to perform anything with awareness. Anyone, without focusing on religion, ethnicity, age, sex, creed or nationality can practice meditation. Once understood, meditation is more fun to do it does not involve any form of straining. 


Meditation is not a state of mind - We say meditation is not a state of mind, but it is the state of no-mind. We cannot say meditation is what one thinks; no, meditation is actually more than what one feels as it helps to find a peaceful place that is right inside you all the time. There are basically four states of mind according to scientists who are dependent on the frequency of mind waves. The four states are referred to as alpha, beta, gamma, and theta. When we say one is at the beta state, it merely means the state in which we live and perform all our day to day activities. The alpha is right below beta which is the state of meditation. Gamma and theta are the states of mind of further depth. At the alpha stage, it allows one to become still, tranquil and calm without any levels of stress or tension; in short, one becomes peaceful. Alpha is not meditation, but it is the state of mind in meditation. There is no gadget or mechanical device that can be used to create awareness, but the gadgets can only be used to create the right conditions which help us to realize what is true.


Meditation is not self-hypnosis - As it is required in self-hypnosis, so it is the same in meditation because there is a need for an object of concentration in both cases. However, when meditating, the person who is involved has to maintain an awareness of here and now and equally stay very conscious and not to black out their mind. It is not a subconscious state that is usually the case with hypnosis. Hypnosis tries to turn one into an emotionless vegetable and makes the subject to be more susceptible to be controlled by another party. On the other hand, meditation makes one to become more and keener on their emotional changes. One gets to learn themselves with greater clarity and precision.


Meditation is not a mysterious practice - Meditation is an art that deals with different levels of consciousness that lie more profound than the symbolic thought. The only interesting thing is that there may not be exact words to define meditation but that applies to different other things like we all understand how to walk but many of us, if not all, have the precise explanation of the order which the nerve fiber and muscles are able to contract during the whole process of our day to day everyday activity like walking. The same applies to meditation; we might not explain it in detail, but we can do it. When doing meditation, one cannot predict the outcome because it is merely an investigation or experiment and equally an adventure to look forward to.


The purpose of meditation is to become a psychic - This is a misconception that people have that the end result of meditation is to be a psychic superman. The details like reading minds and levitation are not the ultimate goals in meditation, but the ultimate goal is self-liberation.

The Basics of Meditation
Meditation is what brings about personal change and addresses our own fundamental problems. When meditation is done with a focus on beliefs and theories instead of focusing on facts, then it seizes to be real. Taking a look at the daily happenings in life leaves us at a state where we realize many problems with lots of individual suffering, making several things in life to seem impossible and unachievable. With such unimaginable and unbearable pain, the only thing that helps us to see the world differently and focus on changing the world is meditation. Even for having our spirituality set right, it is vital to have the practical and realistic facts set right with a focus on dealing with the sufferings.
The following basic steps are necessary;

As you start to train yourself on the art of meditation, it is crucial to try and sit at least every day even if it is just for five minutes; those five minutes will make a big difference. A key factor to consider is the regularity with which one practices the skill of meditation as it helps your memory to be aware of 
 what is happening with you and your surroundings at any given time. The meditation done every day can be done invariance so that one engages in different activities for a varying length of time and a different skill on how to do it provided there is always something that one is doing daily. In any day things happen; differently, our day kickers keep changing, and that can make our emotions change taking us off the course, but the meditation practice is vital as it could be of great help to help us re-establish ourselves.
The seat is not anything specific it can be a chai, a bench, the bed, a park bench or just some good-looking ground surface. The issue is getting somewhere comfortable, stable and solid so that at the end of the session you are not left feeling tired and fatigued remember our focus is on relaxing
When meditating, you should equally be keen on the posture of the bottom half of the body. In case one is seated on a cushion, then you can cross your legs comfortably in front of you, making sure the knees are at the same level or below the hips. In case you are seated on a chair, then it is important that you have your feet on the floor with the foot fully touching the floor.
Torso or upper part of the body should be straight without stiffening the spine. Let the spine have its natural curvature and create feeling that you are upright and very comfortable.
The upper part of the arms is parallel with the torso while we let our hands drop and rest naturally; the idea of having identical sides helps to keep you from hunching over or being stiff.
Focus on the head and eyes is that during meditation we drop the chin lower and allow a lower gaze which creates a humbling effect, then one can close their eyes and take time to relax because closing the eyes helps one to shift their concentration. 
Now it is time to pay attention to the mind and body interaction and the breath. Follow how you breathe out and in and be settled. Take a moment to consider yourself the best-dignified rider and enjoy a horse ride through life. You can 
 make this a daily routine that will lead to self-awareness.
Stay on course without letting your mind to wander, and if it does, it is advisable that you come back to your breath.

It is not possible to make ourselves any different just the same way we can't force a flower to grow. However, it is important that we establish some new conditions that can be of help in a gentle, skillful and gradual way to change our experiences. It is believed that our problems begin with the state of our minds, and we can fight the same problems which using the mind itself. It is risky when the mind sticks to the state of depression, anger or pain. Our emotions also cause our thoughts to interpret and view things from the perspective of how things are happening. As such, it is important to have a skilled meditator to take you through the guidelines and training on how to meditate in a manner that actively shape our minds. Therefore, we can say that real meditation is the form of perception that allows our consciousness to stay awake and free of conditioning. We all perceive or sense through the eyes, nose, ears, skin, and tongue but meditation is not done on the basis of these senses but on the perception with a different range of sense and power which is present in everyone. 

Benefits of meditation
 


Meditation Helps to Reduce Stress
 

The modern-day lifestyle that we lead is hectic and inadvertently leads to stress and anxiety on some level. Stress has become one of the most common problems that people suffer from these days. You may think that you can put it off or might have resigned yourself to the fact that it is a part of your life. However, stress can lead to a myriad of health problems like high blood pressure, an increase in the risk of cardiovascular disorders, and insomnia, just to name a few. The stress chemical in the body is called cortisol. Your body can usually regulate the levels of cortisol within it, but the more your stress levels, the higher the amount of cortisol secreted. This can cause issues like panic attacks. Cortisol secretion needs to be regulated. All of these issues can, however, be dealt with using the help of meditation. It will help in reducing your stress levels and help you deal with anxiety-inducing issues in a productive manner. Overall, by practicing meditation, you will notice a decline in your 
 stress and anxiety levels.  

Meditation Helps Keep Emotions under Control
 

Humans are emotional creatures. However, it can be hard for us to control our emotions at times, and this can have dangerous consequences. This is especially true in the present world that we live in. The increased amount of pressure and anxiety you experience can cause a build-up of many negative feelings. If you let emotions like anger build-up, it will only harm you. Not just you, but also those around you. Meditation will help you maintain your calm and stay composed even in the face of adversity. When you are able to stay calm, then it is easier to rationalize your thoughts. Apart from this, it will also help you make better decisions. You must not let your emotions control you, and meditation will help you get a handle on your emotions.  

Meditation Increases Serotonin Secretion
 

You might have heard of serotonin, the "happy hormone." The human body secretes various hormones that have a huge impact on how you think and feel. These chemicals in your body will affect how happy, sad, or angry you are. Serotonin is a chemical that helps people stay happy. Studies show that regular meditation helps in increasing serotonin secretion. This chemical has a positive effect on your mind and body. Low levels of serotonin are observed in people suffering from depression and other mental health issues. So, meditation is one of the most effective means of tackling depression.   

Meditation Improves the Ability to Focus
 

Having the ability to focus better is something everyone aims for in life. However, most people have trouble with this. Being able to focus can help you in so many ways. If you are a student, it will help you study better. If you have specific goals in life, you will be able to focus on those goals and work accordingly. Lack of focus can make you lose track of what you do and lead an undisciplined life. Research shows that those who practice meditation tend to have a better ability to focus on their tasks and perform better than those who don't practice meditation. Different meditation techniques will help you hone your ability to focus and enhance your cognitive 
 skills.  

Meditation Increases Creativity
 

It is also said that meditation can get your creative juices flowing. When you meditate and reduce your stress levels, your brain is allowed to function better, and you can be more creative. This creative ability is often negatively impacted by high-stress levels. Meditation will help you embrace the good and the bad in your life without harming your happiness or health.  

Meditation Increases Empathy and the Ability to Connect
 

You need to learn how to empathize and connect with others if you want better relationships. Meditation will help you learn compassion and thus act compassionately towards people. People who meditate tend to have an increased capacity for kindness and understanding towards others. You will be able to think of things from others' perspectives and react to situations in a better way. Meditation can enhance this empathetic ability and improve your social interactions.  

Meditation Helps Improve Relationships  
 

Do you feel like your relationships with your loved ones could use some extra help? Meditation can help you with this. Meditation helps increase your empathy, and this will help you immensely. It helps to increase your awareness so that you can pick up on cues from those around you. This will help you understand how they are feeling in certain situations. By getting a read on the situation, it will be easier for you to react and respond in the right way. Apart from this, it also helps reduce any chances of misunderstandings cropping up. Once your emotions are stabilized, the chances of letting any negativity through will decrease.

Meditation Enhances Memory
 

Do you feel like you have become forgetful? There could be many reasons behind this, stress being the main culprit. Regardless of what the cause is, meditation can help improve your memory, if practiced regularly. You will be able to focus on things and become more 
 conscious of your surroundings and your own self. You will also be able to retain information for longer and thus be less forgetful. Meditation can be a great memory-enhancing tool regardless of what you do or what your age is.  

Meditation Improves Immunity
 

Another benefit of meditation is that it is a holistic way of boosting your body's immune system. If you feel like you get sick too often or just want to be healthier, you should try meditation. Various meditation techniques like yoga are known to help in strengthening the immune system. By meditating regularly, you will notice a positive change in your overall immunity.  

Meditation Helps You Overcome Addictions
 

Addictions are a serious affliction that can be really hard to contend with. It requires a lot of self-control and discipline to let go of any type of addiction. This could be smoking, alcoholism, or just about any unhealthy habit that has a negative impact on your health and well-being. It's not just the addictions that affect your physical health. There are other addictions like watching too much pornography, using excessive social media, binge eating, etc. These change your body and mind in many negative ways. There are certain meditation techniques, like Vipassana meditation, which is often used to help addicts overcome powerful addictions. Just meditating will not solve all your problems, but it is a great tool to help you move forward and leave your addictions behind. So, if you or anyone you know suffers from an addiction, trying meditation is a good place to start. 

Meditation Benefits Cardiovascular Health
 

It is actually common sense that meditation is good for the heart. If you observe how regular meditation helps you when you need to relax and how it decreases your tendency to be anxious, at that point, is there any good reason why it shouldn't also help reduce the risk of cardiovascular issues, similar to hypertension?   
For a considerable length of time, many assumed that to be the case, yet a couple of specialists appeared to be intrigued enough to research and document the physical outcomes on the heart after meditating. The leading researcher to explore this connection was 
 Herbert Benson from Harvard. His important book, distributed in the mid-1970s, The Relaxation Response,
 raised a lot of discussions inside intellectual circles. Through medical testing, he showed that changes occurred in the body.   
At first, other colleagues were skeptical of his discoveries. Nobody had ever genuinely thought that there could be medical advantages related to this meditative training. In any case, his testing withstood the thorough investigation conducted by others. In the last two decades, mainstream researchers picked up progressively genuine enthusiasm for the subject. The research started, yet more explicitly, the American Heart Association Journal
 published an article that reported the ability of meditation to bring down an individual's risk factors that are associated with all types of cardiovascular illness.  
The American Journal of Hypertension
 recently also published positive reviews on the medical advantages of meditation. In this research, it was found that a gathering of meditating people viably brought down their blood pressure, contrasted with a second group that didn't meditate. The decrease in blood pressure for these individuals was so apparent, truth be told, that the meditators had the option to reduce their utilization of antihypertensive drugs by about 25 percent. Stress is related to something beyond coronary illness.   
Stress can cause disruption in a lot of physiological functions. At the end of the day, when you're worried all the time, it manifests in the form of any number of medical issues. One of the systems you may have noticed this in is through gastrointestinal dysfunctions. It's not "all in your head," it's been extensively recorded that changes in physiology and hormones happen in your body in relation to stress. These cause various stomach issues, as a response to a distressing condition - either acute or chronic.   
A few people also experience sleep disorders due to stress. In some of these cases, sleep issues are linked with irritable bowel syndrome. Fortunately, these physical changes can be reduced and eased through consistent meditation practice.  

Meditation Aids Weight Loss
 

It's hard to be your best when you're troubled with weight issues. 
 Sadly, numerous people who are overweight do not have a good self-image and lack a sense of self-worth. Without that, they may believe that their ideal life is far out of their grasp. Meditation can do something amazing here, in two different ways. To begin with, it's not unusual to start eating when you're stressed out.   
If you are someone who does this, you realize that what you go after first is generally something salty, sugary or greasy. It's not about your absence of self-restraint - blame the hormonal changes related to too much stress instead. Your body craves this kind of unhealthy food when it is under distress.   
A lot of research demonstrates that the physical impact of stress on your body can be greatly diminished through meditation. It starts by diminishing the body's cortisol level, which can then mitigate those obstinate yearnings for food. Maybe meditating doesn't offer that equivalent comfort that you get from the bag of chips, candy, or fries (or even all three). Yet, it can help curb those cravings in any case. This is a part of the process that will allow people to pick up a superior mental self-image, which, then, empowers them to concentrate on seeking the life that they need to lead. Stress is very slippery. It penetrates your entire being. Maybe, however, its most notable impending impacts are on the person's immunity. Consider it. How often have you caught a cold or even the flu following an unpleasant event?  
Meditation can definitely help you with this also. People under pressure are known to have decreased amounts of basic white blood cells, which are essential for battling foreign attacking microscopic organisms and infections, which can cause cold, influenza, and other illnesses. Meditation is undoubtedly now seen as a great way to insightfully deal with the stress in your life.  

Meditation Helps Manage Headaches
 

A headache is one of the most common signs that your body is experiencing too much stress. What's more, it's difficult to concentrate on what is important to you when a headache is floating over the majority of your thoughts. It's hard to think, and at the same time, it's hard to use sound judgment, and it's tough to enjoy yourself. Maybe it doesn't come as anything unexpected that meditation is the ideal method to loosen up those muscles and 
 suppress that pain.   
In addition to the fact that it works for most people, its positive effects are likewise scientifically confirmed. Even for a brief timeframe, going within yourself as meditation allows you to make changes in your brain waves to another higher state. This is a dimension of awareness that is known to help advance the process of healing. The takeaway here is that through meditation, you can adjust your brain waves. Researchers were once convinced that an individual's brain waves are unchangeable. They trusted that we are brought into the world with specific patterns, and these couldn't be modified, despite our ability to switch between different dimensions of cognizance.   
Today, however, it's broadly acknowledged that your brain waves can
 be changed—and meditation is one way in which this can be accomplished. The most recent studies have taken a look at people who have been meditating for over fifteen years. Long-term meditation changes the functioning of the brain, which permits the individuals who meditate to achieve a more elevated amount of mindfulness than the individuals who don't. In any case, nothing is preventing you right now from disposing of that migraine through a ten-or fifteen-minute session of meditation, so why not try it?  
As you can see, meditation has a lot of benefits for those who practice it regularly. There are actually more ways in which it helps than just the ones mentioned above. If you genuinely want to experience the benefits of meditation, you need to get started.

How to establish a Good Meditation Practice? 
 

One effective way to consistently practice meditation is to create and plan out a practice that you can follow, according to your needs, your daily schedule, routines, and timing.   
The thing about meditation is that you need to be mindful of everything that you experience in your session. With mindful meditation, there is a goal and a purpose. It is to help you be conscious and mindful of everything you do.   

Benefits of Establishing A Meditation Practice 
 

A foundation of your meditation session is important because, in many ways, when you set the stones to your practice, your brain will 
 start moving toward making this practice happen. For example, if you decide to buy a new meditation mat, your mind will be reminded (or you will remember) that you purchased the mat, and you want to know the feeling of sitting on the mat and practicing.   

Without a firm foundation, you will not be consistent
 

It won't be long before whatever you're doing eventually crumbles and falls because there's nothing supporting it. That's just one way of describing how important it is to develop a sound meditation practice right from the very beginning of the process.   

It helps you create a habit
 

But although meditation is something that is beneficial for everyone, not everyone is currently putting it into practice. Some people are not practicing meditation at all. Why? Because it isn't a habit. A lot of us lead very busy lives, so sometimes our plates seem too full to take on anything else. There will always be a reason not to start something, which is why it is entirely up to you to make time for it.   
The purpose of establishing a meditation practice is because you want to make meditation a habit, a part of your daily life, and something that you are willing to do every day without even thinking twice or resisting it because you are pressed for time.   

It makes your practice ingrained, almost second-nature activity in your life
 

Meditating will become much like how brushing your teeth or showering, preparing something to eat, and even going on a daily commute to work. Those habits are so deeply ingrained in you that you do them without any effort or a lot of thought put into it.   
That is what establishing a meditation practice aims to do for you right now, and it is something you need to establish as a foundation to make your practice consistent.   
Here is how you can start establishing a meditation practice for yourself.  

Start small. Start small at first by meditating for short periods of time, maybe 5-10 minutes a day, especially if you're new at 
 it. You can do anything for 5-10 minutes a day with no resistance, and the time will pass before you even know it. When you see how easy that was, it keeps you motivated to keep adding onto that. By creating small, achievable goals, you begin building the habit of making meditation a part of your daily life.   
Use tools to help you. There is an app for just about everything these days, even meditation, so why not make the most of the tools you have to help you establish a successful daily practice? There are several apps, such as Headspace and Calm, which can help you enhance your meditation sessions, with everything from timers to ambient sounds to help set the mood. If it helps make your daily practice more enjoyable, why not? You are more likely to stick to something if you like what you're doing.   
Use YouTube. Guided meditations that you like on YouTube can be a great tool, especially for beginners on this journey. It helps you stay on track and on the right path. Some meditations are given on a daily basis, whereas some are based on your goals, such as Meditation for Focus and Meditation for Sleep. Guided meditations make it much easier for beginners, especially to start getting into the flow of things and helps you progress in the right direction with your meditation sessions, especially when you're doing it alone as a solo practice. It would be good to know that you are heading in the right direction.   
Make space. This is extremely important. Making space in your home or anywhere you feel comfortable is a vital part of your practice.
Make it a schedule. Okay, so not many people like routine and schedule, but if you are starting in meditation practices, this is essential. Make it a point to pencil it into your calendar or make a note of it on your calendar app on your phone. It can be easy for other things going on during the day to take precedence over your meditation session, which is why you need to purposely make that time just to stop and meditate before the day comes to an end, and you realize you didn't get 
 to spend any time meditating at all.

Chakra Healing Meditation  
When healing your chakras, it is important to start at the root and work your way up rather than working from the top down. 
Begin by focusing all of your energy at the base of your spine. Breathe in and out as you continue to feel this in your body. Each part of your body should be relaxed in this moment. 
Start by making sure that you are not holding on to any tension in your legs or your arms. Our chests and our stomach can also stay rather tight from all the tension. Breathe in as you fill yourself with positivity and breathe out any of the tension that you are still holding within these different parts. Your root chakra is also known as Muladhara.  
Your root chakra will deal with different aspects of your career. Money and mindset are also involved in this. Anything that deals with your overall survival will be located within this root chakra. If you are struggling with your career, monetary issues, or anything else that creates the life that you have, then this could be creating a blockage in your root chakra. The worst possible thing for this root chakra is fear.  
When you are holding on to that anxiety and stress, no matter what it might be over, then it will be found within the blockage passageways of your root chakra. 
Breathe in positivity and allow this part of yourself to become clean. Any part of your overall foundation of life needs to be healed within this moment. Let yourself be as grounded as possible. 
Breathe in for one, two, three, four, and five. Breathe out for five, four, three, two, and one.  
Become independent from your financial state. This does not determine who you are as a person. Having a lot of money or having no money at all will create a very different lifestyle. The only people who say that money isn't everything are those that already have money. Money can provide you, not with happiness, but with the relief and the security needed in order to actually explore that happiness. What we have to remember is that regardless of our 
 financial state, we are still living, breathing individuals. We still have needs, wants, and desires. There are greater things in life than seeking out money. Of course, you need to have money in order to pay for basic living expenses. But beyond that, we do not need money to provide us with any sort of fulfillment. Let yourself become free from this type of stress. 
Remind yourself that work is not everything, either. Many people will believe that their job is their life, but you have so much more to live for aside from just this. Feel at the bottom of your spine and all throughout your legs as your root chakra becomes released. The stress and the fear will only make this worse. Of course, you will not be free from the worry over money, but you do not have to let that panic get to a level where it is causing a blockage of your energy. Breathe in positivity and happiness and breathe out anything that is keeping you restricted here. Let's move up now to our sacral chakra. This is known as your Svadhishthana. 
This chakra deals with pleasure. Anything associated with sexuality will be found within this energy center as well. 
Your sacral chakra is located in your lower abdomen. You can feel where your belly button is now and know that around two or three inches beneath this is where you will discover your sacral chakra. Anything dealing with your guilt or worry over your relationships, could be found here. 
If you have an indulgence, or a lack of pleasure, this could create a certain problem in your life. The desire and seeking of too much pleasure can be a distraction. Everyone deserves to have fun, but it can quickly become an addiction. 
Consider now if you have been over indulgent with anything. Even food could be a form of addiction or release that is helping you to avoid emotional problems you don't want to confront. Feel yourself become released from this now. 
Sexuality is another huge part of the energy that makes up your sacral chakra. Have you been experiencing difficulties with your sexual life? Is there a partner that you have been having problems with? Do you feel as though this area of your life is lacking anything substantial? Breathe in positivity and breathe out any of the blockages that are keeping your sacral chakra from having the 
 ability to completely heal. Breathe in and out, in and out. Moving up is our solar plexus chakra. This is referred to as your Manipura.  
Your solar plexus chakra deals with your own personal power. Breathe in for one, two, three, four, and five. Breathe out for five, four, three, two, and one.  
This is your willpower and the motivation that you have within. Can you be confident and in control of your life? This ability will be discovered within that location on your body. It is essential that we ensure we are not putting any blockages or negativity into our own ability to have this kind of power. 
This solar plexus chakra is located above your belly button and just below your chest, in the stomach area. This is where you will experience butterflies in your stomach when you know that something is wrong. This is where that big heavy ball will be. When something is making you nervous or giving you an unsteady feeling, then you might discover that pit in your stomach. This is your solar plexus chakra telling you that you need to take control. If you feel any sort of shame over yourself, or embarrassment about who you are, this will be a huge blockage. You cannot properly make positive decisions for yourself when this solar plexus chakra is being blocked. You need to have that belief and that strength in your own abilities so that you can live to your fullest potential.  
Breathe in positivity and breathe out anything that has been blocking this part of your body. Your self-worth will also be regulated by the energy that exists here. Your self-esteem is an important part as well and you need to be able to nurture that so that you can make better decisions. Loving yourself and fulfilling your needs of having a high self-esteem is healthy and it does not make you egotistical; we need to check in with ourselves so that we can be our own biggest fan. Breathe in and out. Breathe in self-love and breathe out any of the hate and doubt that has been keeping this part of your chakras blocked. 
Moving up we have our heart chakra. This is the chakra that deals with everything involving love and relationships. This energy does not just regulate personal relationships with other people. It is also responsible for helping you control the love that you have for yourself. 
Any sort of grief or remorse will be the biggest blockage for this part of your heart chakra. It is located right in between your breasts in that deep part of your chest. It is also known as the Anahata. 
Any type of joy or inner peace that you experience will be found in this part of your body. Your heart might beat faster when you are happier. Your heart may be heavy when you are unsure of yourself and you don't know what to do. This will all be part of the regulation of your heart chakra. 
Breathe in happiness and breathe out hate. Fill yourself up with peace and let go of any of the grief or shame that you might be feeling. Let yourself heal from the emotional trauma and relationships with romantic people that might have been causing you this sort of blockage. Breathe in positivity and breathe out anything that is keeping you restricted.  
Above this is our throat chakra. This is located right in your throat. It is also referred to as Vishuddha. This throat chakra is all about communication. Look at your life now and the way that you have been talking and interacting with other people. Do you share the things that are on your mind? Are you not afraid to stand up for what you know is right and true? 
It fills you with hate when you spread that to somebody else. Open your mouth wide now and breathe in as big of a breath as you can. Feel yourself fill with positive air. 
Hold it for just a few moments and now exhale as hard as you can, letting go of all of that hate that you have been sending to other people. Feel yourself become lifted and free once you let go of all that toxic energy that is being passed around. Your throat chakra can also be blocked when you are not properly using it. Are you more of a passive person who isn't willing to share what is on their mind? This is only going to keep your throat chakra closed off even more. Open this part of yourself up and let yourself communicate with other people. Breathe in and out, in and out. Let yourself be at peace. 
Moving up to the middle of our forehead, we have our third-eye chakra. This is known as your Ajna.  
Your third-eye chakra is your intuition. It is something that will help 
 lead you through this life. Not everybody will be able to even tap into their third-eye chakra in their life, even when they already know that it exists. You have to allow yourself to see the truth. Sometimes we know that the truth is right in front of us, but we keep that third-eye closed because we're not ready to look at it. Open this up now and be honest with yourself. Once you relieve this blockage, you will find that every other chakra aligns. Once you stop looking the other way with your third-eye and instead look right in front of you, this is going to help keep your body at peace and bring everything together in perfect harmony. 
Breathe in and out, in and out. Your imagination, your creativity, your wisdom, and your logical thinking all exists within this third-eye as well. Any sort of illusion or deceit that you have been experiencing, or even creating on your own, is going to be a huge blockage for this third-eye chakra. 
Feel your eyes become open. See the things that are right in front of you. Close your eyes once again and breathe in. You do not have to use your physical set of eyes to really let this third-eye breathe. Let the air travel in and out. Breathe in positivity and truth and breathe out any sort of neglect that you have had over your life. 
On top of all of these chakras finally is our crown chakra. This is known as your Sahasrara.  
Your crown chakra represents how connected you can be to your spirituality, regardless of whatever you might believe in this life. You have something deeper inside of you that extends beyond just your physical body. Allow this crown chakra to be your guidance. Feel this take power over you and let it be the thing that drives the rest of your chakras. Trust your intuition. Let yourself speak your truth. Feel and spread the love. Trust your gut and know when something is right or wrong. Allow yourself to feel pleasure but remember that it can't be everything. Keep yourself grounded and rooted in this earth and the present moment. The only way that you can heal is after you have managed to clean these out. Think of a physical wound that you might get. If you were to scrape your knee, before putting ointment or a bandage on it to heal, you first need to make sure that it is clean. If you are not properly cleaning something out first, then it could trap something negative or toxic inside of it, 
 which would cause it to spread everywhere else and get even worse than it was before the initial wound. 
You have cleaned your chakras, and you have granted yourself the ability to fully heal, breathe in and out, in and out. You are completely at peace; your chakras have aligned, and you know now what it takes to feel at ease. You are relaxed and you are mindful.  
You are present in this moment and you are prepared. You are peaceful and serene. 
You are now completely relaxed and at ease. You have tapped into every one of your chakras. You know where they exist inside of you now and it is time to start the healing process. You'll be able to go back to this whenever you need to ensure that you don't have any blockages.  
This is the perfect beginner and warm-up meditation because it means that you will be able to go through the rest of these meditations with a clear mind and a healthy flow through your body. Continue to focus on your breathing once again. Breathe in for one, two, three, four, and five, and out for five, four, three, two, and one. 
Feel yourself already start to heal in this process. Allow your body to become calm and centered.  
We are going to count down from twenty once again. When we reach one, you will either drift off to sleep, continue on with your day, or move onto the next meditation.  








Chapter Two: Anxiet
 y

Anxiety is a feeling of worry, nervousness or unease about something with an uncertain outcome. You know you are anxious when you feel restless or tensed. Your heart may beat in an accelerated rate and your breathing may quicken. Some people tend to feel tired and weak easily when they are anxious. 
It is very important to note and respect the contributions your thoughts make to your anxiety level. Thoughts are the images, memories', beliefs, judgments and reflections that float through your mind and give rise to anxiety. You can ask yourself: "What are the thoughts and images in my mind that keep me feeling as anxious as I feel?"              
Meditation has more benefits than just helping us have positive thoughts and thinking, it also rejuvenates our physical and mental health. And often when we help ourselves, we help those around us. In this way, solo meditation can positively affect a relationship.
It is understandable if you feel wary about using meditation to cure your anxiety. You may find it hard to believe that a seated, quiet and isolated activity can help strengthen your social skills, reduce your anxiety level and relationship skills, but research shows it does.
Ways meditation can prevent anxiety in your relationship. 
Strained Communication
Communication is essential for a healthy relationship. If the communication in your relationship is strong, then it has the potential of being healthy and lasting.
Meditation will free you from within and any hindrance to your having an effective communication in a relationship, will be easy to deal with.
Toxic Personality
No sane human will want to be found in a relationship with a toxic 
 human. Sometimes, though, the toxicity usually arises as a result of clashes in opposite personalities. You might worry that your personality is causing undue stress on your partner. This worry can cause you a lot of anxiety. You can change your existing scenario with meditation. As a human being, you must have carried your emotional and mental baggage for many years without relieve. Apart from a series of outbursts caused by emotional imbalances, this might even cost you your health. Just like snakes that shed their skin and dogs that shake off water from their fur, you need to shake off the baggage you have carried around before you can successfully rejuvenate yourself. When your mind is free of constant worry, you would find it easy to be happy and, in turn, spread that happiness to others. What you have inside you, is what you would reflect to others around you. This will ease your anxiety and you will find yourself becoming your partners' peace. Your partner will also feel compelled to reciprocate and you would move on in life, a happier and motivated person.
Former Relationship
This is usually a great cause of strained relationships and needless anxiety. Meditation helps you heal from any past heartbreak you might have experienced. During meditation, the mind is content and alert so, it can greatly heal the body, heart and soul. It harmonizes the mind and triggers the healing process.
Gratefulness
A very strong incentive to meditate for a good relationship is its impact on your perspective. Meditation helps you control and regulate your emotions and this power will help you keep a positive perspective. Grateful people are usually more satisfied in their relationships and feel closer to one another. Staying grateful will help you stay focused and appreciative of your partner's good qualities. Your partner, in turn, will feel appreciated, and the bond you share will be strengthened.

Work-Related Stress 
 

You might be going through and experiencing a lot of stress at work.
It Keeps You Positive
Meditation helps you stay positive, charismatic. It makes you more present, more focused, more productive, and even more creative. Your ability to learn and reason outside the box will improve. It is true that positive emotions help you connect freely with others. It helps us be more open, more approachable and it even solidifies our feelings of connection with other people, even strangers. To explain better: you will realize that on the days you feel anxious and stressed, you are less likely to start up a conversation with the person behind you at a bank. This is because stress makes us selfish and more self-focused. However, though, on the days you feel great, happy and excited, you are more likely to start a conversation or share a joke with a stranger or even notice if someone needs help going through a door. Research shows that laughter, which only occurs when you are feeling positive, makes you more receptive to new persons and helps you create and strengthen relationships. Also, it helps you endure in the face of difficulty. Difficulty can come in the form of a challenging relationship. All of us will face problems in our relationships, but only some of us have natural resilience and an ability to endure and bounce back quickly. Thousands of researches will show that meditation is a strong way to improve happiness and your general well-being. By helping with anxiety and even depression, it can help keep you in a positive frame of mind that has enormous benefits.
Your Connection
As noted earlier, after a while partners tend to feel disconnected from each other. In a research conducted on loving-kindness and compassion based on meditations, it was realized that these types of meditations can greatly help partners feel more empathetic and connected. Meditation can help train and help you to feel more compassionate and loving. Other research shows that empathy and compassion contribute a lot, positively, to your health, well-being 
 and happiness: improved happiness, decreased anxiety and depression, and even a longer life not to mention stronger and healthier relationships with other persons.
The Five Types of Anxiety Disorders
It is a normal occurrence to be anxious just as mentioned earlier. The way this world works, it would be almost impossible not to have feelings of anxiety repeatedly. We are predisposed to engage ourselves in activities that may give rise to feelings of anxiety: doing exams, asking someone out for a date, making important decisions among others. 
Anxiety disorders come in different shapes and forms. The term anxiety disorder only serves as an umbrella term to cover the different conditions under the scope of the term:
Social Phobias (Social Anxiety Disorder)
For socially anxious people, everyday situations can get out of hand in mere seconds. This group of people is extremely self-conscious and fear judgment and scrutiny from other individuals. This phobia links itself to only specific situations:

Fear of public speaking
Having meals in front of people
In extreme cases, others experience it in slight exposure to other people

In the event that you experience these kinds of symptoms, you might actually be suffering from social anxiety.
Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD)
Generalized Anxiety Disorder has the tendency of making the victims feel unfounded worry as well as the lingering feeling that something negative is about to happen. Often, these feelings come in excessive proportions and are mostly unrealistic.
Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD)
Contrary to popular belief, PTSD does not only affect soldiers and prisoners of war. This anxiety disorder comes about when someone goes through adverse conditions that may terrify or cause physical harm to him or her. A couple of traumatic events can easily lead one to post-traumatic stress disorder: various accidents, natural or synthetic disasters and violence imposed on them. Three symptoms generally characterize PTSD:

Flashbacks, nightmares, and vivid recollections of the events that lead to the current state.
Having insomnia coupled with the inability to concentrate as well as amplified feelings of anger and irritation.
Heavy avoidance of places, things or activities that serve as a constant reminder of the traumatic event. 


Panic Disorder 
 

People who suffer from panic disorders always have terror knocking at their doors on a constant. The affected parties also experience sweating, heavy palpitations (usually irregular) and chest pains. In addition, none of these episodes comes with a warning and the fear of another attack only adds the magnitude of the panic. In extreme cases, victims may experience a choking sensation and symptoms that they may be having a heart attack.
Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder (OCD)
When the term OCD comes up, many people often characterize it with the washing of hands and turning on and off lights. However, to many people, many things are a mystery about people who suffer from OCD. OCD has the characteristic of repetitive actions and thought patterns (obsessions) that recur. Some of the obsessions are:

  The fear of contamination from germs


Unwelcome thoughts of harm, religion, or sex
Thoughts of aggression towards the self or other parties
Arranging thing is perfect symmetry

Some of these repetitive actions may be arranging things in a specific way, excessive urge to clean the surroundings and wash hands, counting and checking things repeatedly to confirm if they are in order. 
There is no way, for certain, to be able to tell when or how someone will develop an anxiety disorder. Gladly, there are steps present, which can help reduce or alleviate the symptoms. Contained in this book are some of these steps.
Easy Steps to Help You Overcome Anxiety in your Relationship
1. Be Calm
You must have found yourself criticizing everything you do. It is normal, we all have an inner critic in us that thrives in cooking up doubt and filling our minds with anxious thoughts. If this occurs, the very first thing you should strive to do is calm yourself so it doesn't spiral out of control. Meditation calms the nervous system and gives you an opportunity to create separation between you and those negative thought lines. You will come to realize that you do not have to react to every thought that flips into your mind. So, take in some long calming breaths and put aside some good meditation time.
2. Process the Facts
The next step is to figure out the exact negative situation that is making you anxious. This is because, most of the things that make us anxious, are based on thoughts we make up in our own head. So if for any reason, your relationship is causing you anxiety, search yourself and find out why it is and while doing that focus only on facts not opinions. This will help you fully understand your present situation rather than some imagined failure.
3. Self-Care
When you begin to feel anxious about your relationships, it is necessary to concentrate on taking good care of yourself. Instead of 
 acting out against your partner or trying to get reassurance, do only those things that will promote your wellbeing and make you feel confident.
4. Heal from Within
You would have noticed by now that these steps are all the necessary steps you need to take to gain control over yourself and definitely not your partner. Heal yourself from within, this is really the only way you can cope with these potentially harmful feelings, because they come from within. It is possible to worry and be aware of yourself without being anxious.
5. Mindfulness-Based Meditation
Meditation used to effectively treat anxiety disorders usually comes in the form of Mindfulness-Based Meditation. This form of meditation can be dutifully traced to the mindfulness movement started by Jon Kabat-Zinn who is the founder of the Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Approach. The simple aim of the Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction Approach is to learn to completely avoid troubling thoughts. You can achieve this by practicing awareness, figuring out the cause of anxiety in your body, knowing your thought process and learning how best to do away with your painful emotions.
MBSR works better when practiced with an instructor, but you can achieve the same result from courses available online.
Steps for Mindfulness Meditation to Distill Relationship Anxiety
Below are easy steps to follow to get started today:

Sit upright in a chair with the palms of your feet flat on the floor.
Focus on your breath. Pay attention to your breathing. Do not try to vary how you are breathing, just watch and observe your body as you breathe in and out.
You might get distracted or find that you want to focus on something else. Ignore and defiantly resist this longing and continue to concentrate on your breathing.
Anxious thoughts may at this point, cross your mind. It is expected. Do not shut them down rather, acknowledge them and then calmly go back to awareness of your breathing.
Keep up with this calm, non-critiqued observation for close to ten minutes.
Slowly open your eyes and take note of how you feel. Don not try to analyse the feeling, just observe.

It is easy to practice meditation. All you have to do is accept the world, the environment around you. Be curious. Observe. This meditative practice, after a while, will spill into other parts of your life, as you concentrate on yourself observing rather than focusing on anxious and difficult situations and over-reacting.
Difficulties in This Meditation
There are several detractors to meditations. You might find that it is hard to meditate or be mindful. You might find it difficult to concentrate without letting the critique voice speak or you may feel too busy or restless as though there is simply too much to do, to be lounging around, breathing in and out. People are wired differently.  Some people simply find it difficult to just do nothing. They are constantly on the move and they are used to it. Also, sometimes, you might realize that you cannot prevent the difficult thoughts from taking over even when you try to relax.
The best advice that will help to overcome these obstacles comes in two ways:
Respect the process
You should understand and recognize that this will take some time. You will not become an expert at this in a day. When you first start meditating, you will feel strange.  Your mind will bug you, make you 
 feel that you are wasting your time, just sitting around there doing nothing literal. You will get even get angry and fed up. Even with all this, though, religiously continue with it. It will definitely get better. Do not expect your very first meditation practice to be easy at all, it may not. Funny as it sounds, it does take practice to master the art of doing absolutely nothing. In the end, it will become easier.
Create time
Since you have identified the fact that the Meditation will take time, it is best to make out time for it. Put in a time for it on your schedule just like you put in a job or an appointment. Do not make it an option not to practice. There is no reason why practice should be skipped for a day. Just discipline yourself. Tell yourself that you need to get it done. Most times, when you find that you have got a lot of things to do and achieve and you still try to fit in time for a calm moment, you will discover, later, that that calm moment helped you to go back to your day more aware and faster at solving problems.
Update a diary with records on your growth and truthfully indicate if your anxiety is reducing. After a short while of constant meditation, you should ask yourself questions like: When anxious thoughts flashed through your mind, were you able to examine them without criticizing or judging them? Did you succeed in acquiring a moment of focused observation? Did you feel calm, relaxed and aware? If after a while, you are still plagued with troubling thoughts and anxiety that is repetitive and harsh, go ahead and have a talk with your doctor about other treatment options.
How to Practice Meditation for GAD
If you are suffering from Generalized Anxiety, mentioned earlier, performing constant daily meditation can assist you in overcoming anxiety and in reducing increased tension in your body. Yoga has a lot to do with meditation so If you have ever taken a yoga class, you have taken a good first step and you are already on the right path to achieving the peace you seek.
Again, at first, you will not need a whole lot of time to meditate. A few minutes may be a you need. Make efforts to make out a few 
 minutes each day to meditate. As you become more and more familiar with the process, and as you figure out how to relax and discover what it feels like to be calm, you can slowly increase that time.
GAD is simply unrelenting worry, worry that would not go away. Meditation helps you to learn to live with those worries and thoughts without giving them the power to upset you. When you finally achieve that, your distress is more likely to reduce.








Chapter Three: How To Calm The Bod
 y

Exercise
Exercise is a highly recommended stress reliever for many reasons. Physical activity has many benefits in addition to reducing stress, and these benefits alone (increased health, longevity, and happiness) make exercise a worthwhile habit. And as a stress management technique, it is more effective than others. The combined benefits of these two facts make physical exercise a lifestyle that is worth following. 
Do physical activity   

The definition of physical activity in this context has not been limited only to exercise. Physical activity is any activity that engages your physique. Mostly it will lead to perspiration. When an individual engages in physical activity, he or she is obliged to concentrate fully on that particular activity. Exercising is a very renowned way to counter depression. Regular exercise has time and again been used as an anti-depressant. When one is exercising, endorphins are boosted. These are chemicals that enable an individual to feel good.   
The statistics of how many people deal with stress is always on the upward. When one experiences stress, it has a lasting effect in their lives since it cuts across what an individual is engaging in at a particular time. To eradicate stress completely is an uphill task, and one would rather manage it. Exercising is one of the best methods to manage stress. Many medical practitioners advise that individuals should engage in exercises in a bid to manage stress levels.   
The advantages that come with a person engaging in exercises have far been established to be a counter-measure against diseases and as a method of enhancing the body's physical state. Research has it that exercising helps a great deal when decreasing fatigue and enhancing the body's consciousness of the environment. Stress invades the whole of your body, affecting both the body and mind. When this happens, the act of your mind feeling well will be pegged on the act of the body feeling well too. When one is in the act of exercising, the brain produces endorphins that act naturally as pain relievers. They 
 also improve the instances upon which an individual falls asleep. When the body is able to rest, this means that its amounts of anxiety have dropped by a large margin. Production of endorphins can also be triggered by the following practices. They include but are not limited to meditation and breathing deeply. Participation in exercise regularly has proven an overall tension reliever.   
Doing relaxation exercises   

Another method of reducing stress levels is through the use of some relaxation techniques. A relaxation technique is any procedure that is of aid to an individual when trying to calm down the levels of anxiety. Stress is effectively conquered when the body itself is responding naturally to the stress levels in the body. Relaxation can be often confused with laying on a couch after a hard day. This relaxation is best done in the form of self-meditation, although its effects are not fulfilling on the impact of stress. Most relaxation techniques are done at the convenience of your home with only an app.   
The following types of exercise are highly recommended for stress reduction because they have specific properties that are effective in reducing stress in short and long-term stress management:
Yoga   

The gentle stretching and balance of yoga may be what people think when they practice, but there are several other aspects of yoga that help reduce stress and to have a healthy life. Yoga entails the same type of diaphragmatic breathing; this is used with meditation. In fact, a few yoga styles include meditation as part of their practice (in fact, most types of yoga can take you to some degree of meditation).  
Yoga also includes balance, coordination, stretching, and styles are the exercise of power. All support health and stress reduction. Yoga can be practiced in many ways. Some yoga styles feel like a gentle massage from the inside, while others sweat and hurt you the next day, so there is a yoga school that can work for most people, even for those who have some physical limitations, to be attractive. 
Walking
Walking is one of the easiest medications to relieve stress that is 
 excellent because of the benefits this technique offers. The human body was designed to travel long distances, and this activity generally did not cause as much wear as it did. Walking is an exercise that can be easily separated by the speed you use, the weights you carry, the music you listen to, and the location and the company you choose.  
This type of exercise can also be easily divided into 10 minutes of sessions, and classes are not needed, and no special equipment is needed beyond a good pair of shoes. (This is an advantage since studies have shown that three 10-minute workouts provide the same benefits as a 30-minute session: great news for those who, due to their busy schedule, need to practice in parts! To find the More smalls!) 
Martial Arts
There are many forms of martial arts, and although each one may have little focus, ideology, or set of techniques, they all have benefits to relieve stress. These practices tend to pack both aerobic and strength training, as well as the confidence that comes from physical and self-defense skills. 
Generally practiced in groups, martial arts can also offer some of the benefits of social support, as classmates encourage each other and maintain a sense of group interaction. Many martial arts styles provide philosophical views that promote stress management and peaceful life, which you can choose or not accept. However, some styles, especially those with high levels of physical combat, have a higher risk of injury, so martial arts are not for everyone, or at least not all styles work for everyone. If you try several different martial arts programs and talk to your doctor before following the style, you have a better chance of finding a new habit that keeps you fit for decades. 
These three examples are not the only types of exercise. They simply show some benefits and are usable by most people. There are many other forms of workout that can be very powerful, such as Pilates, running, weight training, swimming, dancing, and prepared sports.  
Everyone brings their stress management benefits to the table, so discover and practice the form of exercise that appeals to you the 
 most. 
Mindfulness Body Scan Meditation
This technique requires a more formal atmosphere than the breathing technique as it is best experienced when you are lying down or sitting in a really comfortable posture. While lying down may seem like a fabulous way, initially, it might not be a good idea in the long-run because novices tend to fall asleep in this position. Also, while a good 30-minute duration is needed for effective results, you may make the best use with whatever little time you get.
Sit down on a cushion or a chair or lie down comfortably on the floor. Avoid lying on a mattress if you find it difficult to stay awake. Close your eyes because it makes it easy to focus. Now, pay attention to your breath. Slowly move your attention to the places where your body is in contact with your chair or floor. Investigate each section of your body mentally.   
The different sensations you experience could be tingling, pressure, tightness, temperature, or anything else. Sometimes, you may not feel any sensation too. Notice the absence of sensations also. Each section of your body becomes an anchor for your mind to hold on so that it doesn't wander away.   
Again, be aware when your mind wanders, and gently get it back to where it was before it moved off. When you are done, open your eyes, and mindfully get your focus back on the outside environment.   
Another crucial aspect of the body scan mindfulness technique is to release the tension in the various parts of your body as you scan it. When you focus on a particular section of the body, say your shoulders, you suddenly realize that you are holding them too rigid and creating tension in that area. By focusing on that part, tension is automatically released from there.    
These are formal ways of body scans and breathing mindfulness meditation techniques. You can do these mindfulness activities even while sitting in your chair in your office. Take a 5-minute break and do a body scan or focus on your breath even as you sit at your desk. You don't even have to get up from your seat. Also, you could do it 
 during your daily commute or while waiting for someone or standing in line for something or anywhere else. Mindfulness meditation does not need anything else but your mind, which is always with you.  
Mindfulness Meditation through Mantra Chanting   

A mantra is a phrase, word, or syllable that is repeated during the meditation session. Mantras can be repeated in mind, whispered, or chanted aloud. Mantra meditation involves two elements, including the mantra that is being chanted and mindfulness meditation using the mantra as the anchor. Mantra chanting keeps the mind focused and facilitates mindfulness meditation. People also use the mantra as a form of positive affirmations.  
Identify the best mantra for your needs. You can choose your mantra based on the reason for the mantra chanting. Are you looking at getting back your health? Are you seeking peace? Do you desire for something to happen in your life? Are you looking for a deep spiritual awakening?   
Sit comfortably with your back straight but not rigidly erect. Focus on your breathing first, which will help you get into the mindfulness meditation state. Ensure your intention for the mantra chanting and meditation is clearly imbibed in your mind. Now, start chanting the mantra. Don't expect miracles when you start your chant. Simply repeat the mantra slowly, deliberately, and in a relaxed manner. In this mindfulness meditation technique, mantras are the anchors that help your mind to focus.  
There are no 'best' mantras for mindfulness meditation. You can choose anything from the scriptures of your personal religion, or you can choose positive and empowering affirmations such as:   

I am happy and content at this moment.   
All my treasures are inside of me.  
My heart is my best guide.    
It's always now.    
I am complete, and I don't need anything outside of me to make me whole.    
Nothing is permanent.    
This too shall pass. 


Breathing Exercises throughout the Day
 

Breathing is a fundamental principle of our lives. You must breathe in and out to live. Many times, people suffer from breathing-related problems, which later on affect them. Some have lost their dear lives because of having difficulties in breathing. Others are suffering because they are unable to breathe well. Therefore, it is essential to note the exact significance of breath. 
The first important of breathing is that it reduces anxiety. Breathing also helps in the elimination of insomnia. It has the power to manage your day to day cravings, and also it can control and manage your anger response. Breathing brings your whole body into more excellent balance as it can initiate calmness within you. You will realize your entire being becomes normal again after a proper process of breathing and level of stress will be no more. For those having a high level of emotional frustrations can also apply breathing techniques all through the day so that they might get well too. Nothing is as sweet and pleasant as having an excellent relaxed body. 
Breathing also aids in other functions within your bodies, such as muscle relaxation, digestion, and even peristalsis processes. The movement of fluids within your body is made possible by the help of breathing. Breathing helps in the transportation of your body elements such as nutrients and oxygen. It also aids in the removal of waste products. It is better to note that breathing has got that most considerable impact on your respiration as it can donate the required oxygen for respiration. You can acquire the exact energy needed for normal body functions. You will feel strong because power has been formed in your body tissue. Your muscles will be stable since the energy to undertake all your body functions are there. Therefore, you will realize that breathing is a continuous and dynamic process that has no end. Throughout the day, you will understand that breath is an incurring process. The first breathing technique that you will realize is part and parcel of your whole day is reducing stress through breathing.
 Before doing this breathing process, try as much as possible to adopt a good sitting position. The position should be comfortable and relaxing. You can also place 
 your tongue behind your front upper teeth and do the following:

Start by making sure your lungs are empty. You can do this by allowing the air inside to escape through your nose and mouth. You can facilitate this process by doing some enlargement of your shoulder and chest and contracting your stomach so that you increase the exhale process. 
Now you can breathe in through your nose. It should be tranquil and silent. Remember, it is supposed to take only 4 seconds. 
The next step is to hold your breath, let's say for about 7 seconds. Don't rush here as your breath should just come naturally. 
Then go ahead by breathing out. You have to force all air out through your mouth. You can purse your lips too and making some sounds of your preference. This should take at least 8 seconds.  
Repeat this process four times.

Therefore, this breathing technique to delete stress in life is seen as a formidable way to control anxiety. Therefore, your level of anxiety will reduce. You will start having a perfect life without stress and anxiety. Remember, this process takes time. It is now recommended that you perform it in a sitting position that's not only affordable but also comfortable. This type of breathing is the famous 4-7-8 breathing. 
The next breathing technique that you can efficiently perform is belly breathing. Belly breathing is not difficult to implement. It is among the most straightforward breathing techniques that can eventually help you to release stress. The following steps are deemed appropriate for your breathing.

Look for a sitting posture or lie flat in any way as far as it is comfortable.  
Place your hands on both your belly and chest, respectively. Remember to put one and just below the rib cage. 
Now you can start breathing. Take an intense breath through your nose and let your hand be pushed out of its position by 
 the belly. The other hand should not move even an inch. 
The next step is to breathe out very loud and produce that whistling sound with your pursed lips. You can feel that palm on your belly moves in as it pushes out the air.  
You are allowed to repeat this process more than ten times and make sure to take your time with every single breathing you are undertaking.  
Remember to make a note on your feelings at the end of the whole process.

Therefore, belly breathing is a type of breathing that will help you to reduce tension within your stomach tissues. Your chest tissues and even your ribs will feel relaxed. In the end, the anxiety within your body decreases, and your calmness comes back to normal. 
We also have roll breathing that you can eventually use to delete some sorts of anxiety, stress, depression, and even unpleasant feeling within you. Roll breathing has several important in your body. Roll breathing enlarges your lungs and, as a result, makes you be able to pay a close watch on your breathing. The rhyming and rhythm of your breath become your full focus. You can undertake this breathing anytime and anywhere. However, as a learner, you should use your back on the ground with your legs bent. Then start by doing the following:

Place your two hands on your belly and chest, respectively. Take a note on the movement of your hands as you concentrate on your breathing process. Continue breathing in and out. 
Focus on filling the lower lungs so that your belly moves up when you are inhaling while your chest does not move an inch. It is better to note that breathing in should be through your nose while breathing out must be through your mouth. You are allowed to repeat this process even ten times so that you can realize better results.  
After filling and emptying your lungs, you can now perform the other step of filling your upper chest. You can manage this by first inhaling in your lower lungs then increasing the tempo so that it reaches the chest. Here, you should breathe 
 regularly but slowly for quite sometimes. During this process, note the position of your two hands. One placed at the belly will slightly fall as the stomach contract. The one put on your chest will rise as more air is breathed in your chest. 
It is now your time to exhale. Go ahead by exhaling slowly through your mouth. You should make that whooshing sound when your hands start falling, respectively. Always, your left hand will have to fall first, followed by your right hand. Still, on this, notice the way tension leaves your body as your mind becomes relaxed and calmed. 
Repeat the whole process of breathing in and out for at least 3 to 5 minutes. In this case, make sure you are observing the movement of your chest and belly. Take note of the rolling wave's motion. 
Your feeling matters a lot in the whole process. Take a more exceptional look at how you feel in the entire rolling breathing.

Your body regains its full free state, and you will feel more relaxed. You can, therefore, practice this rolling breathing process daily and make sure this goes for several weeks. By doing so, you will be able to perform this kind of breathing exercise everywhere. Also, you can eventually achieve this instantly on most occasions. It will help you regain your relaxation and calmness back. At the end of rolling breathing, your anxiety will be at bay. However, this process is not for everyone since some may feel dizzy during the exercise. You can reduce the breathing speed and accelerate slowly. You can then get up slowly after feeling relaxed, calmed, and lightheaded. 
Another breathing technique is morning breathing
 . When you wake up, your body is still exhausted and tired. You feel that your muscles are still weak and wholly tensed. You will realize that your stiffness has got an impact on your day to day activities. The best breathing exercise to follow here is the morning breathing process. It can clear any clogged breathing passages. You can use this method throughout the day to remove the back tension that may be a nagging and a worrying issue to you. The following steps will eventually help you to perform this task with much ease and less effort.

Stand still and then try to bend forward. You should slightly bend your knees, and your hands should closely dangle on the floor or close to it.  
Start inhaling and slowly exhaling, followed by a deep breath as you return into a standing position. You can roll upward slowly and making sure that your head comes last from the ground. 
Take your time and hold your breath, whether for five seconds or even for 10 seconds. You should do this in your standing position. 
Start exhaling. That is, breathing out slowly while trying to make a return to your initial position. You can bend forward a little bit. 
Take note of your feelings at the end of the exercise.

The most important thing about this breathing exercise is that it has the power to instill in you more energy, thus enabling you to carry on with every task of the day. You will be relaxed and calm. The level of anxiousness will reduce. In the end, you will feel more lightheaded and entirely energetic. 
The next breathing exercise throughout the day can also involve skull shining breath
 . The skull shining breath is also known as kapalabhati in another language where the term initially originated. It is a dominant type of breathing that enables you to acquire a relaxed and calm mind and brain. It always boasts of the right way of killing the anxiety in you by eliminating the tension, especially in your skull. Remember, it is good to note that the pressure of the head can negatively influence your whole day, and the impact can remain with you for long. 
Skull shining breath is not difficult to undertake, and this will give you that morale of even performing it throughout the day. You can start by having long breathing in then follow it with a quick and extremely powerful breathing out. Exhaling should originate from your belly, especially the lower part. 
However, after getting familiarized with the whole contraction process, you can now start on inhaling and exhaling at a faster rate. Increase your pace here and make sure all the breathing process 
 takes place through the nose. In this process, do not involve your mouth at the initial stages. You can go on with the process repeatedly until you start feeling very much relaxed. 
You can now take note of your feelings at the end of the breathing exercise. Remember, this breathing process can eventually prevent muscle tension too. It also helps in releasing abdominal pain. Your worries, stress, anxiety, and even clogged breathing sites will be well. 
Breathe Deep
Throughout any day, there are bound to be things that cause your stress levels to rise slightly. There are also going to be thoughts that pop into your head and cause you to feel anxious. Our mind can be our own worst enemy, but the good news is we can take control. There are many ways that we can help ease our fears, and deep breathing is one of them!  
These techniques are extremely easy to do and can be done anywhere, even at your desk or on the bus to work! If you find it hard to concentrate, you can also purchase a guided relaxation tape, or download a stress-relieving app, as these will guide you through breathing exercises until you get the hang of doing them yourself.  
Try this:  

Close your eyes and breathe in through your nose for a count of five, hold it for five, and then exhale through your mouth for five, in a slow and controlled manner. Repeat that for as long as you need to gain control.  
Once you're feeling a little calmer or in control, picture the thing that is causing you stress or anxiety as an item or a color. For instance, it might be a black ball, or it might be a gray cloud. It doesn't matter what it is; it simply needs to symbolize the thing that is negatively affecting your day.  
Now, visualize yourself forcefully pushing that item far away from you, and visualize it disappearing into the distance.  
Finish off with the same breathing technique you started with, before gently coming back into the room.  

This is a method you can use for any type of stress or anxiety that is 
 bothering you, and it's a great way to get rid of an issue that is upsetting you at any stage during the day.  
Another essential breathing technique is ensuring that we are taking deep, full breaths. When we are even the slightest bit stressed, we start breathing shallowly. These shallow, short breaths do not give us enough oxygen and can even lead to full-blown panic attacks. To stop poor breathing, place your hand an inch or two above your stomach. Now, slowly breathe in through your nose until your stomach touches your hand. Go with our usual 5 counts inhales, and hold for a few seconds before slowly exhaling out through your mouth.   
When our breathing is shallow, we only fill up the top portion of our lungs with air.  Placing your hand above your stomach ensures that you are breathing deeply enough where your entire lungs are filled! 
Deep breathing is the foundation of many calming strategies. It can be done on its own or with other methods like meditation, tai chi yoga, etc. Deep breathing is easy because we need to breathe to remain alive, but strongly and efficiently for mental relaxation and stress reduction. Deep breathing focuses on breathing the stomach thoroughly and clean singly. It is easy to learn that you can do it anywhere, and it regulates your stress levels. Sit down with your back straight, inhale through the nose as the belly grows. Inhale as much clean air as possible into the lungs. It makes it possible to get more oxygen into the blood. Exhale the mouth as the belly drops to force as much air as possible out and close the abdominal tract. If you find it difficult to do this sitting, first try to lie down. You could put your hands on your chest and stomach to see if it's wrong.








Chapter Four: How To Calm The Min
 d

The world we live in today is a truly beautiful place to be. We may have heard many people say things like "this is a great time to be alive," and they would not be wrong. Limitless opportunities abound around us. Ranging from being able to study to have the careers we have always dreamt of and get our dream jobs to be able to buy the things we want and travel as often as we desire, the world has so much to offer us. 
Technology is also a huge part of this mix, as digital communication and social media have made it unnecessary for us to be alone. You can shop online whenever you feel like it, and you can play virtual games and immerse yourself in virtual reality at the click of a button. All these have contributed to making the world a global village that truly runs 24 hours, 7 days a week. 
Due to this, we are now expected to spend every part of our days actively working to better our lives. Having some downtime is no longer considered necessary, and in some cases, you could be viewed as lazy for requesting downtime. This is both a good thing and a bad thing. 
On the one hand, we are reaping the dividends of how active our society is, on the other hand, we need to consider the toll it is taking on us.
Our brains, just like computers, are not designed to be active all the time. Apart from sleeping at night (which some people do not even take seriously), there is still a lot we can benefit from taking some time to calm our minds and to relax during working hours. 
If you are battling with anxiety, you actually need that downtime. You need to unplug from the continuous demands on your time and your mind and calm your mind. Doing this would change and improve the quality of your life. 
Why You Should Calm Your Mind
1. More clear reasoning
Indeed, it feels great to have the ability to overcome our issues every day. However, at times, the sheer volume of the choices you make can lead to befuddled reasoning and slanted points of view. Clearing the mind of messiness and dispensing with superfluous interruptions will enable you to focus. In a relaxed state, you can settle on better choices, dodge errors and function with greater mental lucidity. 
Setting aside time to calm your mind, using meditation or mindfulness procedures, can assist you with seeing a clearer way through life's difficulties. Unwinding will empower you to place issues in perspective and to prioritize.
2. Guard your heart
It is presently notable that anxiety can greatly increase your risk of hypertension, cardiovascular failures, and other heart issues. There are researches to show that stress and anxiety can lead to a whole lot of health problems that are heart-related. If you want to live longer and protect your heart, you should make out time to calm your mind.
Drawn out times of stress and anxiety cause hormones to be discharged in the body that influences how the heart functions. This can cause long haul harm if not tended to. Serious anxiety can trigger such a great amount of adrenaline to be discharged that an individual can experience symptoms of a heart attack like palpitations or even have a physical cardiovascular breakdown. 
Finding a way to diminish and handle anxiety by figuring out how to calm your mind is vital to taking care of the heart. 
3. Battling ailments
It is common knowledge that people appear to capitulate to more ailments - colds, tummy bugs, coughs, and sore throats - when they feel anxious or exhausted. 
Increased stress and anxiety will cause you to succumb to colds, cases of flu, and other infections. This is because your immune system is affected when you are stressed. As such, your immune system cannot really fight infections the way it should.
If you wind up continually fending off infections or you appear to catch every infection that is around you, decreasing your feelings of anxiety could help. Figuring out how to viably calm your mind is critical to decreasing pressure and could empower you to lead a progressively profitable and more beneficial life - which thusly breaks the cycle of stress and anxiety, which adds to your sicknesses. 
4. Fight against depression and anxiety
The World Health Organization estimates that 350 million people all over the world experience the ill effects of depression. Depression and anxiety are presently the leading sources of disability. Specialists in the field feel that it is no happenstance that the rates at which people struggle with depression and anxiety have grown comparatively with their stress levels. These can all be blamed on not taking time to relax and calm your mind. 
As well as making your life feel unsavory, uneasiness can genuinely influence your ability to work. Ordinary day by day choices and assignments may feel inconceivable. You may quit taking propane care of yourself and other people under your care, and going to work or even going outside your home might become very difficult for you.
It is important that you protect yourself from these weakening mental conditions, particularly if there is a medical history of either. It is winding up progressively evident that figuring out how to calm your mind is the best technique for mitigating stress and anxiety. 
5. Help with weight loss
A growing number of people are becoming overweight or obese. It is getting increasingly obvious that weight has a direct connection to numerous medical issues, such as diabetes, heart disease, cancer, and strokes. It is crucial to your wellbeing that you can maintain healthy body weight. 
When you cannot calm your mind, your feelings of anxiety grow. Stress causes a hormone called cortisol to be discharged into the 
 circulatory system, and this builds the craving to eat more. This is the reason a considerable lot of people engage in "comfort eating." As well as increase your appetite, it has been indicated that cortisol makes you go after unhealthy foods - foods high in fat and sugar. Foods in this category are considerably bound to make you heap on the pounds. 
Setting aside some time to calm your mind can assist you with keeping your body within the healthy weight range for it. Not only will relaxing diminish the measure of comfort eating you take part in, but it will also assist you with seeing the situation with greater lucidity. Lucidity empowers you to design your weight control plans all the more adequately and address your negative dietary patterns. 
Calming your mind has numerous advantages - both physical and mental. Your bustling life can make it easy for you to disregard the significance of 'rest' and having the choice to calm your mind. However, it is winding up progressively evident that figuring out how to quiet down and unwind appropriately can help you live a longer and more joyful life. Make it your priority to become familiar with this imperative fundamental ability and set yourself up to receive the numerous rewards.
How to Calm Your Mind through Meditation 
1. Alternate Nostril Breathing
Use your left thumb to hold down your left nostril and breathe in through your right nostril. At that point, close your right nostril with your left forefinger, so both are shut, and hold the breath. Release your left nostril alone and breathe out. 
With your right nostril still shut, breathe in through your left. Then close your left nostril with your thumb, so the two nostrils are shut, and hold the breath. Now, take your index finger off your right nostril and breathe out. 
This is one set. Complete at least five sets to put the left and right sides of your brain in harmony, quiet your nervous system, and create a sense of calm.
2. The 100-Breaths Method  

Close your eyes. Feel your back against your seat, and your feet squeezed immovably on the ground, at that point delicately carry yourself into the present moment. Then start breathing through both nostrils and count as you go on breathing m, thinking "and" for each breathe in, and the number for each breathe out—breathe in "and," breathe out "one"; breathe in "and," breathe out "two." 
Feel your tummy rude with every inward breath, and let the breaths reduce as you count yourself into a greater feeling of calm. After you arrive at 100, open your eyes, move your fingers and toes, and bow your head in appreciation for the psychological space you created internally. 
3. Full Body Breath Sweep
Start by breathing in through your nose, extending your stomach, and counting to five. As you take in a breath, imagine calming warm light filling your feet, and after that breathe out through your lips at the count of five while envisioning yourself discharging any pressure you may have been holding in there. 
Rehash this procedure for your lower legs, your shins, your knees, etc., as far as possible up to your head. After you wrap up your whole body, you'll likely feel lighter, more settled, and calmer. 
4. Lip-Touching Breathing
When stirred, your sympathetic nervous system places you in a condition of high alert—that feeling of fight or flight alarm that lets you know there's a type of risk. Your parasympathetic nervous system, when stimulated, produces the contrary inclination—a feeling of relaxation and calmness. 
The lips contain parasympathetic nerve strands, making this a basic way to deal with creating a feeling of calm that you can utilize anywhere, whenever. To receive the rewards, you should simply put your lips together, inhale gradually, and say to yourself, "I am calm." 
5. Strolling meditation
In spite of the fact that you can do this whenever you're strolling, you might need to locate a serene spot to walk, away from groups, confusion, or noise pollution. If it is a sheltered space, you can walk barefoot. This will give you a feeling of being increasingly connected to the earth. 
Remain with your spine straight, with your shoulders and arms lose, and take a couple of inward breaths and exhalations to take in calming energy and inhale out strain. 
Then start gradually moving forward and match your breathing with your motion—right foot, breathe in, left foot, breathe out. Utilize the majority of your faculties to completely experience where you are—the warm feeling of sun all over, the delicate sound of wind stirring leaves on trees. The objective isn't to land at a destination; it's basically to be present in the experience of strolling. 
6. Meditative bath
It's quite easy to relinquish every other idea when you're standing under a flood of water, set to the ideal temperature for you. 
Set aside this time to tune into your faculties. Pick a soap or shower gel you love so that fragrance is intoxicating. Appreciate the feeling of the water on your skin, and feel it dribble down your back, your calves, and your heels. 
Notice when you start thinking of the day ahead (or behind you). Try not to pass judgment on the thoughts or yourself for having them. Rather, imagine them going down the drain and afterward take your concentration back to the experience of cleansing your body and mind. 
7. Task meditation   

Regardless of whether you're vacuuming, cleaning, or washing dishes, it very well may be your meditation time if you immerse yourself totally in action. 
Washing dishes, for instance, can be both fulfilling and calming. Feel 
 the warm water on your hands; let yourself appreciate the experience of making something grimy clean once more. Try not to consider completing or what you'll do when you're done. Concentrate exclusively on the doing and check whether you can discover a feeling of acknowledgment and calmness in doing it gradually and well. 
8. Mindful Eating
Rather than eating rapidly with one eye on your food and the other on your phone, transform supper time into meditation time. It doesn't take long to eat, so why not set everything aside and set aside this time for yourself? Your mails, messages, and social media pages will still be there when you're done. 
Inhale deeply and attempt to recognize the various subtleties of aroma in everything on your plate. At the point when you're eating, take full breaths between each nibble, and consider your meal like a foodie, valuing the various flavors and textures. 
If you discover your thoughts meandering to things you've done or need to do, draw your thoughts to the feeling of the fork in your hand. Then inhale deeply, take a bite, and concentrate on relishing the food before you.
Through Mindfulness
Mindfulness transcends meditation. While meditation can be helpful for helping you become more in tune with the workings of your mind, you can reap the benefits of a calm mind through mindfulness. 
By simply focusing more on seemingly small details of your life through mindfulness, you can find greater happiness and fulfillment in your life. Better still, you can find that calmness of mind you need to help you deal with anxiety. Below are some ways to calm your mind through mindfulness. 
1. Develop a mindfulness mantra.
Mantras help you remember the important things. They can be useful for mindfulness and calming your mind. A useful mindfulness mantra to help with having a calm mind should be one that reminds you to stay in the moment. It could help if your mindfulness mantra draws your attention to the fact that every day is a new day, and you have the option to start afresh and stay connected with the present moment while separating yourself from the worries in your mind. 
2. Give yourself a reminder that you are not your thoughts.
Whenever a negative thought crosses your mind, simply identify it as merely a thought and move on. Thoughts are like birds; do not allow the ones you do not want to build a nest in your head. Let them keep flying. You are not that feeling of regret or self-doubt; you are not that feeling of anger or scorn. Consciously separate your personality from your thoughts in your mind. 
3. Acknowledge that thoughts emerge normally.
If you cannot change them, then try working to supplant them with other "better" thoughts. Try not to pummel yourself over something you cannot control, but do not overlook them either; basically move past them and decide not to relate to them, even as they cloud your mind. 
4. Relax.
Take a long breath through your nose and exhale it through your mouth. This can calm you and remind you that your thoughts are a little piece of the boundlessly immense world around you. 
5. Thank somebody in any capacity you can.
Indeed, even the little act of saying "thank you" to a waitress or salesperson or receptionist can reconnect you with the present minute, and it can also keep you from getting to be stuck in your own musings, which prevent you from appreciating life as it comes. 
6. Grin at a stranger.  

Grinning or smiling helps you concentrate outward to the individuals around you, and by reconnecting with this appreciation for other people, you can connect much better to the present minute and remind yourself just to be. 
7. Take a walk in the nature.
Take a walk and blend into the earth around you, and tune in for sounds you would generally have missed. 
8. Keep a daily gratitude diary.
Keeping an appreciation diary helps pull you away from the pressure of the day. It also constrains you to acknowledge life as it comes and helps you see the positive qualities in life consistently.
9. Leave your telephone on silent throughout the day.
You can also mute your phone's notifications, as these can be diverting and pull you away from the present moment. Your messages will, in any case, be hanging tight for you there later when you are all set to go through them. 
Muting your ringer can also prevent every disturbance from obstructing your mind and preventing you from experiencing the genuine feelings of calm you could be having for the duration of the day. 
10. Eat gradually.
Concentrating on the look and the taste of what you eat can help remind you that while all feelings are transient, it is essential to genuinely encounter them properly, as opposed to giving them a chance to pass you by. 
11. Drink tea.
Tea can help quiet your nerves and cleanse your thoughts and connect you more to the present moment. 
12. Wash up.
Showers can assist you with unwinding by compelling you to make a cross over from the clamor of the day, and they can be an incredible method to give your stressors a chance to fall away as they blend into the warmth of the water. 
13. Tune in to instrumental music.
It has been shown to support your capacity to focus, which can raise your strength and quality of your mind and help you calm down when your thoughts would not quit coming. 
14. Handle one of the most stressful things on your plan for the day.
While it is imperative to be mindful irrespective of the demands of your day, do not abstain from finishing a strenuous assignment on your downtime if it is giving you unneeded anxiety. 
15. Have a profound discussion with someone you know.
Completely focus on the other individual and tune in to what they need to say. By not just listening to give your opinion, you can help pull yourself out of your own head and connect all the more profoundly to the moment by demonstrating appreciation to the individuals we converse with. 
16. Watch your preferred show.
It is imperative to take time from your day to reward yourself, and enjoying a comfortable delight like watching a show you like can help you with stepping away from your worries and making the most of your free moments from the clamor of life.
17. Compose a haiku or any prohibitive poem.
This can move you to be innovative in manners that freestyle composing can't do, and can assist you with recovering a moment in your life that was wonderful yet brief. 
18. Do a word puzzle.
Crosswords can enable your mind to be innovative and can promote your insight, as well as the general clarity of your thought. They can also give you a break from your everyday schedules, all while being fun to finish. 
19. Do the dishes.
Doing the dishes can be an incredible method to take a break from life, and furthermore be profitable while you are taking a break. Washing dishes can assist you with feeling good, and it pulls you away from your present thoughts, which, thus, can give your mind consent to unwind and rest from the pressure of the day. 
20. Look at an art piece you love.
Regardless of whether it is the Mona Lisa, the lyrics of a song you like, or a drawing that your spouse made, nothing is off the table here. Art is emotional, and it can help you to feel and completely immerse yourself at the moment by expressing your appreciation for the works of others.
21. Play with a pet
Feel the hide underneath your hands and the delicate quality of their skin. Petting an animal can help relieve your stress and connect you to the moment, and can pull you away from your thoughts. 
At times it is easy to so busy concentrating on yourself that you neglect to appreciate the world around you. It is easy to get caught in the trap of the mundane and the range of your own objectives, and you neglect to appreciate the excellence of life and the seemingly insignificant details. 
Being progressively mindful, as well as meditating, will help you remember every single good thing with time. They would help you realize that there is no sense striving hard and feeling yourself with anxiety and then ending up not enjoying your life.  Meditation and mindfulness will help you get away from the struggles of everyday 
 life and remind you to appreciate life again by taking advantage of the beauty of the present moment. 
The good part of all this is that everyone has the ability to meditate and be mindful.
Meditation and mindfulness do not need to be tedious or complicated. You can, without much of a stretch, utilize any of these methods during your day to calm your mind and keep yourself focused at the moment and free from your stressors. 
Simply remember to stop on occasion and take it all in.








Chapter Five: 
 Guided Meditation to Manage Panic
Attack

Panic attacks are a severe form of anxiety that makes a victim become so fearful when there is no reason to warrant such behavior. It is characterized by feelings of terror and the victim might think that they are experiencing heart failure or are about to die. 
Researchers say that people usually experience a panic attack a couple of times in their lifetime, which is totally normal, considering that each one of us harbors some fears that are known only to us. But then if we develop a tendency of constantly dealing with panic attacks, say on a daily basis, then there's cause for worry.  

Symptoms of panic attacks:
 

These are some of the symptoms felt by the victim of a panic attack: 

Thunderous heartbeat 
 

When you have been running for a long distance, you are likely to experience a higher than normal heartbeat, and even then, it's quite disturbing. But when it comes to someone who's been seized by a panic attack, they experience a wildly knocking heart that leaves them gasping for air. Their heart knocks so wildly and they feel as though they are about to die. Panic attacks are extremely uncomfortable fear response mechanisms and it's unimaginable what the sufferer goes through on a frequent basis. This wild knocking of their heart interrupts their peace, magnifies their worry and causes their productivity to take a hit. 

Feeling of weakness
 

Panic attacks are extremely resource intensive. Once a victim has been seized by the wave of a panic attack, they normally go down and lay in a state of weakness, a clear sign of being overwhelmed. The wild beating of the heart consumes a lot of energy and makes a person feel as though they are dying. Actually, it takes some amount of time before they fully recover from the attack. It is advisable that the victim gets something nutritious to eat after a panic attack so as to discourage so that they might continue to function in a normal way.  

Numbness in the fingers and toes
 

The wave of the panic attack is so dense that it leaves the victim feeling as though their fingers or toes have no blood. The numbness is attributed to a slight glitch in their nerves thanks to the wild knocking of their heart. But of course, they soon regain the full use of both their fingers and toes.  

An impending sense of doom
 

As the victim of the panic attack struggles with the wildly knocking heart, they feel as though something terrible is about to happen. For instance, they might think that they are about to experience a heart attack, or as if they are about to kick the bucket. This is a testament to the intensity of the symptoms of a panic attack.  

Sweating 
 

This depends on the physiological makeup of the victim, but it is not uncommon to see beads of perspiration on a victim's face. The very thought they have been close to dying or losing the use of their heart is enough to trigger their sweat. Victims of a panic attack might still sweat at the remembrance of their symptoms.  

Chest pains 
 

Considering the wild beating of their heart during the panic attack, the victim is left nursing massive chest pains as their chest muscles align back together. It takes a while before the chest pain goes away. But the victim is likely to hold their chest all along. 

Difficulty in breathing
 

When your heart is beating like crazy, and you are feeling as though you are about to die, and your chest is engulfed in a blanket of pain, good luck with breathing. The victim usually struggles to get air and it makes the entire scenario even grimmer. Due to their inability to breathe properly, it might bring about a small headache.  

No control 
 

In general terms, this is what victims of panic attacks feel. They cannot seem to understand what's happening. The pain in their chest, the ringing in their ears, and the numbness of their hands, all make them feel as though they have lost control. It's precisely why 
 the victim of a panic attack hardly does anything besides act shocked.   

Derealization 
 

Some victims seem to think that whatever they are experiencing is not real. They feel as though they have been put in some other world and this must not be a reality. This goes to show that panic attacks are indeed powerful. Such victims are at the highest risk of developing chronic anxiety. 

Tips for dealing with panic attacks
 

Once your body comes down with panic anxiety, you have the heavy task of dealing with the condition the right way.  
The response that a victim gives when they face panic attacks is what determines the extent of the injury.  
The following tips are designed to help you get through any form of a panic attack: 

Knowledge 
 

If you understand what our body is going through you won't be as freaked as someone who has no idea what's going on. A panic attack is a sign that your body has experienced a threat and it's in survival mode. Most of the times, these "threats" don't warrant the kind of response that the body gives. For instance, if you are a divorcee, and you happen to be strolling down the street on a fine day only to see a man that closely resembles your ex, your mind might overreact to that incident and cause you to experience a panic attack. But if you are aware of what's happening you will be less affected by the incident. Once you realize that you have this condition, it is also important to read up more on it. This will help you understand how panic attacks truly work and how you may minimize the effects and ultimately overcome this condition.  

Be calm 
 

It might seem like an easy thing but when you experience a panic attack you are bound to be anything but calm. The wild knocking of the heart, the ringing sounds inside your head, the impending sense of doom, is enough to reduce you to a nervous wreck. But then panicking about panic attacks can only make the situation worse - 
 not better. You had better realize how to calm your nerves and develop a rigid mindset. It's the only way to emerge unscathed. Considering that the symptoms of a panic attack are quite strong, the victim must be careful to project the right attitude else it will make it hard for them to overcome this condition.  

Know what triggers your panic attacks
 

You might not always know what is behind your panic attacks considering that your brain can magnify even the smallest of incidents. But then issues like traumatic thoughts and obsessive thoughts are potential triggers of a panic attack. You must be wary of the various lines of thinking that result in the development of panic attacks. For instance, if you were abused as a child by one of your close relatives, coming across anything that remotely reminds you of that person is enough to send you into a panic attack, but since you know that you might actually report to your brain that it's okay and dissuade yourself from developing a panic attack. 
Of course, it's not as easy as it sounds but through practice, one can become perfect at understanding their emotional makeup.  
In order to be able to tell what triggers your panic attacks, you must increase your self-awareness. The easiest way of increasing your self-awareness is through paying attention to your internal dialogues. Don't just waltz through incidents but take the time to understand how your mind interprets reality in relation to the emotional scars that you bear. 
The worst kind of panic attack is induced by your thoughts, for then you will have a hard time hiding from your thoughts. Ensure that you have a strong sense of self-awareness so that you may be in a position to contain any potential panic attack. 
For instance, if you are sitting in your office trying to be productive, and all of a sudden, automatic negative thoughts of relating to your childhood abuse crop up in your mind, instead of just entertaining these thoughts, you might want to walk into another office and share with them what's happening. In that context, your brain is less likely to feel threatened into taking action. 

Mindful breathing 
 

The thing about panic attacks is that they are involuntary. You can 
 only act and hope that your brain won't get to that. However, if your brain decides to activate a panic attack, you are helpless. But then how you behave after experiencing a panic attack is just as important. You don't want to be the type of person that becomes crushed under worry as you remember that you were about to die.  
Mindful breathing is one of the ways to calm yourself down. Mindful breathing is both a therapeutic and relaxation technique. It helps your racing mind to calm down and realize that you are no longer in danger.  
Mindful breathing improves the state of your mind and allows you to savor your reality in a more intensive manner. 
Conditioning your mind to experience reality as opposed to wandering off to explore your fears and worries is a great way of handling a panic attack.  
Assuming that you are in an outdoor setting, then thanks to mindful breathing, you are able to savor the beauty of nature, the blueness of the sky, and you appreciate the natural world. This keeps you from entertaining the dangerous thought patterns that trigger panic attacks.  

Visualization 
 

Understand that just as your mind can lead you down the dark and horrible path of panic attacks, it can lead you into spears of light and hope.  
You just have to know how to rely on your mind in order to achieve the outcome that you want. One of the best ways of relying on your mind to achieve your goal is through visualization.  
There are many ultra-successful people that swear by visualization. It helps them put their fears in the backseat and focus on what they want to achieve.  
Visualizing is all about calling to mind the exact thing that you want to experience in reality. For instance, if you are a basketball player, one of your important life goals might be getting the ring.  
So, when you visualize, you will see yourself staging an exemplary performance and afterward taking the trophy.  
Once you have visualized several times of a particular outcome, you 
 will stop falling victim to your fears and you will develop the fortitude to fight for your dreams.  
Interestingly, you can use visualization to cure yourself of panic attacks or at least reduce the effects of a panic attack.  
Just get into a comfortable position and watch yourself experiencing various triggers and yet not developing any form of a panic attack.  
In order to become really good at nipping in the bud negative incident and thought patterns before they blow into panic attacks, you have to have a great deal of self-awareness.    
It is very easy to develop negative habits under the misconception that you are getting away from panic attacks. So, always watch out.  

Be courageous 
 

When we talk about being courageous, we don't mean that you take a spear and wander into the wild to hunt lions. 
We are talking about being courageous enough to confront your reality without feeling the need to alter yourself. Not many people can accomplish that.  
After experiencing a panic attack, you are likely to become too cautious about your life, and you may take on habits that will supposedly shield you against pain.  
One of the habits that people commonly take is dependence on alcohol. But in as much as alcohol makes you feel better, it's only for a time, but then the bad effects come back.  
You want to be the person that confronts your reality without an addiction. If you are addicted to a drug or substance, you are at risk of making decisions that will hamper your growth and development.  
So, ensure that you resist various addictions that could sabotage your capacity to become a better person.  
If you confront your challenges with a sober mind, there's no guarantee that you will achieve what you intended to, but there is no question you're indeed a courageous person. And it takes courage to build character.  

Surround yourself with friends
 

Of course, there's nothing great about lying on the ground with your hands on your chest as you battle the feeling that you are about to die. 
You can easily become emotionally scarred out of that experience. But if you have a great way of handling such pain then it won't affect you in a great way. 
Surrounding yourself with great friends is one of the best ways of overcoming pain in your life. Friends offer us emotional support and guidance.  
So, ensure that you surround yourself with friends when you suffer a panic attack. 
Become aware of your physical position at the moment. It doesn't matter if you are sitting, standing or lying down. Just become aware of the place your body is.
If you want to make some changes for better comfort, you may stretch and then sit down comfortably.  
(10 seconds)
Right now, you may feel as if your life is in danger and it is okay to feel this way. This is how your body and mind is responding to this moment here and now. It is neither right nor wrong. 
I know that you are feeling scared because of the panic attack but it will pass. 
Do you feel as if you cannot breathe properly?
(5 seconds)
You may be breathing in a good amount of air but not breathing out enough.
The good news is that we can fix it now.
Part your lips slightly and slowly push air from your system through your lips as if you are whistling. Pay attention to how the air whizzes out of your lungs completely.
Now, take a deliberate deep breath in. Can you feel how the air fills your lungs back without any effort?
(10 seconds)
Breathe out again through your mouth slowly pushing the air out.
(5 seconds)
Keep taking deep breaths. 
(30 seconds)
Keep inhaling deeply and slowly push the breath out through your mouth.
(30 seconds)
Now, allow your body to adapt to its natural rhythm of breathing.
(30 seconds)
In case you feel like your breathing is becoming strained again, become more deliberate about ensuring that you are exhaling completely. 
(30 seconds)
You are safe and in no danger at all. Panic attacks are horrible and may make you feel physically uncomfortable but that is all there is.
You are in no danger.
(10 seconds)
Now bring your attention to your body. Feel as your shoulders drop to their natural position and the muscles around them become relaxed.
(10 seconds)
Are you clenching your jaw? Loosen your jaw abit and allow it to relax. Let your tongue rest between your lower set of teeth. Parts your lips slightly so that they are not too tightly closed against each other.
(10 seconds)
Notice how your heartrate. It is beginning to slow down. Soon, it will resume its normal rate.
(10 seconds)
Notice your breathing is becoming deeper, calmer and quieter.
(10 seconds)
Allow yourself to relax. 
(10 seconds)
Listen to the following affirmations. They will help your thoughts to calm down.
I know that I am safe.
(3 seconds)
I have the ability to overcome panic attacks.
(3 seconds)
I am aware that these panic attacks cannot harm me.
(3 seconds)
I am okay and safe even though my heart is racing.
(3 seconds)
I am calm.
(3 seconds)
I can envision what relaxation feels like.
(3 seconds)
I can envision my whole body feeling centered and relaxed.
(3 seconds)
I am safe and calm.
(3 seconds)
I know that I am safe.
(3 seconds)
I have the ability to overcome panic attacks.
(3 seconds)
I am aware that these panic attacks cannot harm me.
(3 seconds)
I am okay and safe even though my heart is racing.
(3 seconds)
I am calm.
(3 seconds)
I can envision what relaxation feels like.
(3 seconds)
I can envision my whole body feeling centered and relaxed.
(3 seconds)
I am safe and calm.
(10 seconds)
Now, begin to count backwards from 100, 99,98,96....
(30 seconds)
In this moment, here and now, you are safe. Allow yourself to get calm. 
(30 seconds)
Now pay attention to your breathing. Do not adjust your breathing but notice as you breathe in and as you exhale.
(10 seconds)
Start to count each complete breath. A complete breath is made up of one inhale and a subsequent exhale. 
(20 seconds)
Keep counting your breaths and when you lose count, simply start from the beginning.
(30 seconds)
Continue to notice and count each breath.
(90 seconds)
You are now calm and relaxed.
(5 seconds)
You are now calm and relaxed.
(5 seconds)
You are now calm and relaxed.
(5 seconds)
Let your body and mind continue to relax and calm down.
(60 seconds)
When you feel ready, you can open your eyes and familiarize with your surroundings. 







Chapter six: Deep Sleep techniques 
Meditation to Overcome Insomnia 
Whether you find it difficult to sleep at night as a result of stress, tiredness, work or several other factors, or you find your sleep unsatisfactory, you might be suffering from insomnia. Insomnia is commonly called difficulty falling asleep, or staying awake, and there two types of insomnia.  
Acute insomnia is mostly caused as a result of lifestyle, or circumstances. A security officer on night duty will find it difficult to fall asleep on duty, likewise a first-time dad may find it difficult to fall asleep thinking of his precious wife in labor.  
While, chronic insomnia is a complicated type of insomnia. There is no known underlying cause, yet the individual finds it difficult to either fall asleep, or sleep at night for long hours. Such person may also experience disrupted sleep, for more than 3 times a week.  
Experiencing insomnia regularly causes mood disturbances, fatigue, stress and difficulty concentrating. Although, insomnia can be caused by factors like anxiety, work related stress, lifestyle, and sicknesses. However, the approach to overcome insomnia is not easy for some persons, yet there is one possible way to overcome not just insomnia but enjoy a long, satisfactory sleep for the rest of your life.  
How Does Meditation Cure Insomnia 
Meditation is a relaxation technique worth trying, which can help improve your sleep, make you fall asleep easily and also make your sleep satisfactory, such that you wake up feeling refreshed. Meditation harmonizes the mind and body, and also influences the brain and the way it functions. The effect of meditation on your mind and body is that you become calm, and relaxed afterwards. 
Effect of Meditation on Insomnia 
During meditation, the mind is focused on one thing, which prevents the mind from wandering. Your mind and thoughts are brought to the now moment during meditation. Hence, anxiety disappears and it becomes easier to fall asleep.   
During the meditation, your mind and body are been connected to 
 each other, and they both become relaxed and calm, which helps you sleep as soon as you get in bed.  
Furthermore, meditation helps boost the hormone called melatonin that regulates the sleep and wake cycle. Without stress, the melatonin level is usually at its peak at night to ensure you get a sound, and restful sleep. However, the presence of stress among other factors that causes insomnia, the melatonin level drastically reduces, thereby insomnia occurs. With meditation, the melatonin level increases because stress has been reduced, and the body is in a relaxed state.   
Meditation Techniques for Insomnia 
If you want to experience an undisrupted sleep, an intense meditation must be done frequently. There are different techniques of meditating for insomnia and understanding process help us to get started immediately.  
• Cognitive shuffling  
Cognitive shuffling is a simple meditation technique that can be done alone. It is simply a do-it-yourself technique that shuffles your thoughts to sleep. Here is how cognitive shuffling works, when you lie on your bed, your mind is likely to be filled with different thoughts from your daily activities. You can be worried, and anxious about your bills, relationship, the next day activities, such that you find it difficult to fall asleep. The effect of this shuffling on the brain is it tricks the mind to get into a dreaming state.  
Tips to Practice Cognitive Shuffling 
- Firstly, getting in bed is important 
- Right there on your bed, avoid focusing your concerns. Let your deadline be, the bills, the complicated issue at work. Let it all be.  
- Now that your mind is free from your fears and worries, create a new engagement like imagining objects, places, names or movies to meditate on. You can imagine different things, like a teddy bear, a fish, a dog, the sky, the rainbow, or the ocean. Note that, the items you are imagining should not be threatening or scary. For instance, instead of imagining an ocean because you have the fear of water, you can imagine the rainbow or the sky with beautiful stars.  
- Ensure your eyes are closed before you begin the cognitive shuffling process.  
- Process should be repeated if you are still awake, until you run out of words.   
SA Ta Na Ma (Mantra) 
Sa Ta Na Ma is a powerful meditation technique that works on the brain and its functions to reduce risk of depression and other mental illness. It is a mantra that is usually recited in 3 voices; the singing voice which stands for the action voice.  
The whispered voice which stands for your inner voice, and 
The silent voice is known as your spirit's voice. 
SA TA NA MA chant describes the evolutionary aspect of the universe. Each word in the chant has a meaning.  
SA means the beginning.  
TA means existence and creativeness 
NA means death or the end of life  
MA means rebirth
The effect of this mantra is displayed by a balance in emotions, and a settled mind.  
Practical steps to Sa Ta Na Ma  
- Find a comfortable position. You can sit down or lie down.  
- Decide on how many minutes you want to recite the mantra.  
- Breathe in and out through your nose and mouth and ensure you sigh after this breathing exercise is heard.  
- Close your eyes properly, and place your hands either on your lap, or knee. Make sure your palm is facing up. 
-Begin chanting slowly, and press the thumb of your hands, with your four fingers. Count your fingers each starting from the thumb to recite the mantra.  
- Keep reciting the chant as a calm and slow pace 
During recitation, you have to follow the principles of the mantra.  
When you mention SA, you count from your index to your thumb 
You count from your middle finger to your thumb when you sing TA 
You count from your ring finder to thumb when you recite NA 
And final you should count from your pinky finger to the thumb when you mention MA. 
- Still in that position, sing SA TA NA MA in a loud voice, your voice should be audible, and ensure you move each of your fingers with each sound. The more you sing, the more you feel relaxed and energetic. However, your soul and spirit should feel relaxed and enjoy the sensation which is moving through your body and mind.  
- When you feel relaxed, shift your focus and start singing in a whisper voice. At this point, energy is flowing through the body, waist, and knee.  
- Next, be focused on silence. Continue counting your fingers and silently repeat the mantra to yourself.  
- 
 After singing the mantra completely, breathe in and breathe out with your arms wide open, and lift the hand above your head. Release your hands down, and exhale again. Repeat process until you feel refreshed or drowsy.  
What to Expect When Meditating To Fall Asleep 
Your expectations when meditating to fall asleep is most likely to have a sound and deep sleep at night, except you are uncertain about the benefits of meditation. Meditation for sleep is similar to other kind of meditation; however, the approach to each of these meditations is what matters.  
When meditating, your meditation technique determines what you will have to do. Albeit, you can start preparing for your meditation exercise, by breathing in and out, lying flat on your back. If you are having a guided meditation, all you need to do is follow the instructions instead of been worried about what to do and what not to do.  
Furthermore, all you should when meditating to fall asleep is sleep, but try to avoid any form of distractions. 
How to Meditate Before Sleep 
There are two ways you can meditate before going to bed, it can be a mindful meditation where you pay more attention to your body and mind, and also having a guided meditation where someone leads you through the process of meditation.  
Mindfulness meditation can be done alone, in your own room house and house. While guided meditation is a very easy meditation, it is just for you to follow and listen to instructions from a guide. 
Guided Meditation Tips for insomnia 
Guided meditation is the form of meditation you engage in with the help of a tutor, or instructor. Ensure that you will not be disturbed, during the course of this meditation.  
- Lay down on your back, preferably on your bed or mat. Make sure you are comfortable on whatever you are lying on.  
- Close your eyes and prepare your mind for the meditation you are about to engage in. 
-Breathe in and out, ensure that your breathing out is audible such that it looks like you breathing out heavily. Make your body feel the heaviness, after which your body will be relaxed.  
- Pay more attention to your breathing, and you feel easiness.  A natural breathing process.  
- At this point, you will feel your body is relaxed. Feel the way your breath travels through your lungs, and hold your breath. As this is happening, you will begin to feel relaxation in your body.  
- You can begin to breathe normally right now, and as you breathe you feel your muscles, joints, and back relaxed.  
- Pay more attention to your stomach area right now, where your abdominal muscles are present. Tighten the muscles in your abdomen, and hold your breath for 10 seconds and release your muscles. During this release, feel the difference the tightness of your abdominal muscle and the relaxation of these muscles.  
- Repeat the above process 5 times.  
- Breathe in and out, tighten your abdomen and release it to relaxation.  
Feet  
-Divert your attention to your feet, and make them relaxed. The relaxation should be from your toes to your ankles. Tighten your toes and feet, and feel them become heavy and relaxed.  
-Focus on your nails, feel them relaxed and let go.  
-Pay attention to your thigh area, and feel them relaxed.  
- Again, focus on your waist, lower and upper back, joints and feel them relaxed. You will feel the feel heavy, and very relaxed 
Upper limbs
-At this point, focus your attention on your arms. Feel them heavy and relaxed.  
- 
 Get a sense of how heavy your arm is, and feel the relaxation shift to your elbow, wrist, and fingers become very relaxed.  
Face, neck and facial muscles 
- Shift your focus to your facial muscles, neck and face.  
-Every muscle in your face, your cheeks and chin becomes relaxed, and your entire body is now relaxed.  
A deeper meditation for the abdomen 
- Locate your center, which is your abdominal region. Imagine there is a bowl on your abdomen. Slowly see the bowl rolling over your abdomen area, and it relaxes every muscle the bowl rolls in contact with.  
-The bowl now moves slowly from your abdomen area to your right hip carefully and softly massaging the muscles of the hips it comes in contact to.  
-Massaging back and forth all the muscles in your abdomen.   
-The ball continues to roll over to your knee, and around your knee. You can feel the tension on your navel melting away. Roll the ball slowly to your toe, and over to your toes, from your small toes to the big toes.    
Every part of your body this ball comes in contact with feel the part of your body relaxing.  
-Now feel the ball begins to roll upwards away from your toes again. Massaging and reducing tension around your toes, knees, ankles and 
 rolls over to your center, your abdominal area.  
-Again, this balls rolls to your left thigh, and your knee, massaging both the back and front of your knee.  
With your ball you move this ball to wherever you choose, and how long you want it to be.  
-With this ball, massage your knee, and ankle and toes. This ball touches every muscle in your toes, it gently massages them and at this point, you feel your muscle relax. 
- Feel the ball roll back up your leg, your knee and thigh muscle and arriving back at your center.  
-Shift the focus of the ball to the base of your spinal cord. Allow the ball rest there for 5 seconds, and allow it move up your spine, and near your heart. At this point, you can feel the ball massaging the internal organs in your body. The ball massages the heart, and you feel relaxed.  
- The ball rolls to your throat area, and the back of your neck area. You feel your neck area relaxing after the ball massages it. You feel tension reducing around your neck area.  
-The ball travels down your arm, and to your wrist. The ball gently massages your wrist, and fingers.  
-You feel the ball roll up your arm, to your shoulder and neck. It travels down to your elbow, forearm, and wrist and into the palm of your hands.  
- Allow the ball gently massage your palm, and fingers. The ball moves up your arm, shoulder and face and as it reaches up in your face, the ball splits into a hundred tiny balls. You feel them travel around your face, to your eyes, eyebrow, cheeks, chin, teeth, tongue and teeth.  
- You feel the ball massaging your face and every part of your face. At this point, you should enjoy this facial massage.  
- Imagine as you are lying down the ceiling of your house. Your eyes are still closed, so imagine the ceiling of your room opening itself up, and the roof also opens itself open.  
-Still looking at this opening, you will see the beautiful white sky. The 
 sky is clear, bright, and the moon is out and also full, filled with stars. This is a magical peaceful night. You are alone, safe in the beautiful part of your house.  
-Watch the twinkling and beautiful little stars, looking down on you and you are enjoying the peace of the night.  
- You look again at the stars again, the little ones that are thousands of miles away are not shining so beautiful like the big star closer to you, which is looking at you directly from the sky. 
-You are looking deep into galaxy, beyond time, you see a million other stars waiting for you and shining at you. 
- Take a deep breath. Breathe in a rich air from the infinite and beautiful galaxy filled with stars. 
- Feel yourself been a part of these stars, there is no separation between you and them. Feel you are already a part of this wonderful galaxy.  
-As you experience this, you become a shooting star, shining across the galaxy like others.  
-Slowly you begin to fade into the sky, into the unending space and galaxy.  
-You are living in the wonders of this space, where there is neither time, past or future. You feel you are the stars, the moon, and you occupy the pace between the planets.  
-You are floating off slowly, as you travel across this universe; you feel your body wants to drift away. You feel peace, wholeness, and love.  
-When you are ready, and feel relaxed, you can let go of the galaxy. When you drift off, you will drift into a peaceful and wonderful sleep. 
Guided Meditation for Insomnia in Pregnant Women 
Meditation for pregnant women can seem difficult; however, the need to be relaxed is very important, to reduce tension, and frustration. Below are some tips to help you meditate as a pregnant woman.  
-Pick a comfortable position, you can lie on your back, or sit upright. Ensure you feel comfortable.   
- Take a deep breath, and take another deep breath for your baby.  
-You are aware of your strong, beautiful and shaped body. You are aware of your baby and how beautiful the baby is.  
-Ensure that you feel and observe the sensation that comes as you breathe in and out. As you are breathing in, your body is getting relaxed, and tension is reduced.  
- Remember that you are pregnant and meditation can be difficult as this stage; however, take your time to be patient while meditating. Try to avoid every form of distraction around you.  
- Find a quiet place to be alone for 10 - 15 minutes. Sit in an upright position, and make sure you are comfortable.  
- If you are lying in bed, focus your attention on the bed, by imagining that you are sinking into bed. And if you are sitting, create an imagination of your body in contact with your mattress, and also sinking into it.  
-Begin to sense what it feels like to sink into your bed. Notice if you feel lighter, or heavy. Then begin awareness on your body to observe any tension and tightness around your body, from your head to toe. 
- Focus your attention on any part of your body you desire, and become aware of the part of the body. Breathe in and out. Get a picture of that part, feel the tension melting away and tightness reducing.  
- You can scan your body part 2times in 5 minutes. During this scan, observe and note places that are relaxed or still tight. 
-Practice more breathing pattern here. Breathe in and breathe out, for the first 2 minutes, observe your breathing pattern, and focus on your breathing, without a motive to change it. You may start to notice that your breathing becomes slower on its own. You may also notice the way your body moves when you breathe. If your chest rises more than your belly does, it means your breathing is shallow.  
-However, a shallow breathing is just a pattern that shows our state of relaxation. If you are relaxed, your belly will rise more than your 
 chest.  
-Place your hands on your bell, and feel your baby. 
- Observe the movements in your belly with your hands, 
- Think about your day, in a structured way. Look back at every activity you did during the day. Remember when your baby kicked, when you went to see the doctor, when you had a funny and interesting conversation with your friends. Be patient to watch these moments as your brain play them back for you. These flashbacks may seem long or short, it all depends on how your day went. Keep enjoying this flashback, focus your mind on it and avoid been distracted and watch as these events unfold to the present moment.  
- Shift your focus back to your baby. Place your attention on your feet, toes and tell them to switch off. You can literally say the word 'switch off' out so that you feel you have told your body parts they are not needed until the next day.  
- Repeat exercise and inform your upper limbs, your arms, hands, wrist and fingers to switch off.  
- Repeat your breathing exercise again.  
- 
 Place your hands on your belly, and say the following words 
You are a miracle, and not a trouble. 
You will allow me have a restful night 
You will be patient with me till I am awake. 
You are healthy and strong." 
-After saying those words, breathe in and out gain for yourself and your baby.  
-Imagine that your baby is falling asleep. Pay more attention on how your baby looks and the way your baby breathes.  
- 
 At this point, I believe you should be asleep. If you are not yet asleep, you can repeat exercise and allow your mind get relaxed. 
Guided meditation for Insomnia in children 
Guided meditation is a type of meditation, where there is an instructor. Little children do not have to that the knowledge to meditate on their own, so their parents can guide them into this 
 meditation using the following.  
-Welcome to your happy moment. We will start an adventure right now.  
-Make sure you are lying down properly, on your bed, if you feel pain because of the way you lie down, let your parent or guardian know.  
- Close your eyes properly and begin to imagine things the sun, how it is so clear and shining. Do not open your eyes.  
-Start releasing your body, and everything you are thinking of. So, tighten your muscles, your arms and legs, for a few seconds. 
- Let your arms get released, with your legs too. Enjoy the relaxation now, as your muscles are released 
-Try the process again, tighten your arms and legs and release them later. 
- Start breathing in and breathing out. Make sure you hear the sound that comes out when you breathe in and out.  
- Release the air you have breathed in from your lungs, and breathe out.  
- Repeat the breathing exercise, breathe in and out and relaxed.  
-Now, imagine yourself in a beautiful and dark garden like the wonderland. This wonderland is dark, because it is night. 
-You feel the ground is so soft that you feel like sinking into it.   
- You feel a gentle and soft breeze on your face and body. The wonderland is so cool and beautiful; you don't want to leave there. 
- At this point, you see your body becoming relaxed.  
- You look up, and set the beautiful sun set, and the birds flying around in the wonderland.  
-You continue walking; you look at the beautiful trees, with fruits on it.  
-You keep walking until you see a colorful tent in front of you. The tent is the color of the rainbow. It is so beautiful; you walk into the tent. 
-As you go into the tent, you see how beautiful it is. It has a beautiful sofa with the rainbow color, the wall of the tent has the pictures of all your heroes, and you like the way the tent is.   
-The tents has different rooms, the living room has a Television set with your favorite cartoon, the kitchen has the pictures of your favorite food, the room has  big soft bed, you feel the softness as you touch it, and there is a big pool where you can swim before the kitchen. 
- Keep walking around to see how beautiful this tent is.  
- Now, you are done looking around this magical tent in your wonderland. You walk out of the tent, and you see another beautiful garden that surrounds the tent.  
-This garden is so beautiful. You are walking around and you see a table with two chairs, a jug of juice, and two glass cups.  
- You drink a glass of juice, and look around to see if there is anyone around you.  
- You then see someone walking towards you; the person is smiling at you. The person is happy, and keeps smiling at you. 
- You offer the person a glass of juice, the person receives it happily and drinks.  
-You show this person around your magical tent.  
- Did you have a beautiful talk with your new friend? 
- You hug your visitor softly, and you watch the person go away.  
- You breathe in and out and you feel happy and relaxed right now.  
- At this point you are feeling sleepy, so you walk back into the tent and walk into your room to lie on your soft and rainbow color bed.  
- You tuck yourself into your bed, and place your head on the soft pillow.  
- You feel your body sinking into your bed. Your arms are feeling relaxed, and your hips to your toes are feeling relaxed.  
- There is a window in your room, so you lie on your side to watch the beautiful dark sky and you also see the big shining star in the center of the sky.  
-  You smile and feel happy; you tell yourself you are a big shining star.  
- You look at the other shining stars; they look beautiful just for you.  
- You see them moving together fast; you wonder where they are going. They are going to the galaxy, so you decide to join them.  
- You see yourself floating into the dark clouds, and far beyond the clouds, you see more stars. 
- You are happy now, and very sleepy.  
- You begin to drift away. You are getting sleepier, so you return to your soft bed.  
- You cannot open our eyes now, because you are already deep into your sleep.  
- You mind and body is now relaxed and quiet.  
-   
 At this point, you are fast asleep.  







Conclusio
 n
The mind is the engine of the body, it is what carrying that bulk of muscle, that heavy brain on your head; it is what keep you going. You exercise the body to keep it fit and ensure it functions at par and as expected, you eat good food and take drugs to handle and conditions the body when it faces some issues that you are familiar with; you read to get the brain fired up, to help the brain do its work and functions properly. But when it comes to the mind, that engine room, one thing that ensures it stays fit, that helps it combat any unfamiliar issues it is facing is meditation. 
Just as you are being diligent to out nutrition and brains enhancements through reading, you also have to be diligent to your medications. No matter how busy you are, no matter how tight your schedule is, just as you cannot miss your breakfast, just as you make it a habit to read the morning paper and a book, it is important that you put in same diligence and consistency into meditation to enhance your mind, to keep it stable.
Meditation keeps the mind strong and defends it against external attacks. Draft it in to your schedule and your calendar, because a stable mind, a well-conditioned mind is the anchor you need.
The next step is to stop reading and to get started practicing mindfulness meditation, or the others meditations (choose what you feel more suitable for you), as frequently as possible. While initially, you may not feel as though you are getting very much out of the time that you put in, the more you keep at it, the more quickly the positive benefits of being mindful are going to start stacking up. Don't get discouraged if at first, you find that your mind remains unruly; every moment you spend fully engrossed at the moment will make it easier to reach the desired mental state in the future. Take it one step at a time, and you will soon find yourself fully engaged in the present without even trying.
To your success!









THIRD EYE AWAKENING


Guided Meditation to Open Your Third Eye.
Psychic Abilities for Beginners, Mind Power, Intuition, Empath, Healing Mediumship, Mindfulness, Aura reading, Yoga, Chakra and Reiki
By Spiritual Awakening Academy









Introductio
 n

The third eye has been a mystical concept for centuries. Very few people have known this power and they kept it a secret for very long. It has widely been a misrepresented and misinterpreted concept. Opening the third eye is no magic. It will not happen through some gadgets or accessories. It is a journey within. You will have to undertake it alone. You can open your third eye with devotion, willpower, and meditation. It is possible and thousands of people are doing it. The best thing about this process is not only the result but the journey in itself is also very beautiful. 
The third eye is the most eloquent source of intuitive wisdom. A power only possessed by the yogis, psychics and fortune tellers in the past. If you meditate and open your third eye then you can get insights, prior warnings of danger and high level of intelligence at the time. The keyword to achieve this objective is meditation.  
The Ajna chakra or the third eye is located in the pineal gland. For centuries, the occultists and the spiritual masters have called it the 'seat of the soul'. Once you are able to open your third eye, the difference between the truth and reality becomes crystal clear. You are able to connect yourself with the higher energy field and feel what is impossible to feel in any other way. Getting very high intuitive power is another aspect of it. You become highly aware and establish a connection with your surroundings. Your gut feeling gets stronger. Your sixth sense starts working predominantly.  
The third eye awakens your inner self. You easily establish a connection with your surroundings. The reason for most of the sorrows in our lives is our discontent. The new awakening introduces you to a world of new realization. Your perception of good and bad will change. You can see things deeply and not from the superficial level. You react differently and in a much-matured way. This is a completely new feeling. It is like an intellectual looking at the immature quarrels of the kids. 







Chapter 1: What Is the Third Eye?
The third eye is perhaps the most mysterious, powerful organ in the body. At about the size of a walnut, this tiny organ located in the brain has eluded mystics and scientists alike for centuries. In this chapter, we will discuss the myths and perceived powers of this amazing gland, and what has emerged in the scientific community that supports these ideas.
First, let's go back centuries ago. Thousands of years ago, the exact year doesn't matter, people across the globe searched for answers to their most burning question: What are we on this earth for? People sought far and wide, experimenting with different lifestyles and means to connect with a higher power, only to come up short. What they found is that all of the answers to their questions, as individual as they were, lay right inside their own mind. The key to life was reaching deep within themselves to find the answers they sought.
The thought across many cultures, most isolated from one another, is that our third eye is the window to our inner selves, our soul, and our connection with the energy and power of the universe. Creating a deeper understanding of this small area, located on the forehead, just between the eyes seems to be like opening a door into another world. Truly, it is.
The idea that each of us has a soul or an inner self is certainly nothing new either. Our outer self is our worldly skin, what we present in a physical way to others and to the world. We can tangibly see the outer self of everyone around us, and it doesn't change too much. Think of your inner self as a ball of energy, bright and ever-changing that is driving our body forward.
It is this energy that connects us with the energy of the universe. Consider yourself just a small bit of energy in a much larger matrix of energy that creates our known universe. All of the energy is connected, and should you choose to be wholly part of it, you can benefit from its positivity and force. Being in a good flow of energy manifests itself as leading a life that is fulfilling and purposeful.
Let's look at the third eye from a more scientific perspective. The third eye is actually called the pineal gland, a small organ located at the very top of the spine as it enters the brain. It is distinctly in the center of the brain, between the left and right hemispheres. From the outside, it would be dead center between, and just above the eyes. 
 An air of excitement and mystery surrounded this organ as soon as it was discovered. This tiny thing must be important. Otherwise, it wouldn't be tucked away so safely within the brain. What could it be?
The pineal gland is primarily responsible for the production of melatonin, a hormone that is required for regulating our circadian rhythm. It is this vigilance of light and dark that allows us to fall asleep and wake up in a normal pattern. Disruptions in melatonin cause sleep disruption, insomnia, narcolepsy and general fatigue.
Another curious thing about the pineal gland is that it creates and houses a chemical that is known to cause so-called hallucinations. Dimethyltryptamine (DMT), is naturally produced in the body and can be compared to psychedelic drugs like acid, a man-made version. DMT in large amounts causes the mind to slip into a trance-like state, and vivid imagery occurs. This chemical is released in small doses when we sleep, creating dreams.
For those who partake in the use of psychedelic drugs often report being reborn, awakened into a new life by the experience. This type of drug has been used for centuries in Native American and South American cultures (along with many more) for spiritual practice and connection with the gods. It is hard to ignore the fact that entering such a state opens the mind and has the potential to connect our inner selves with a higher energy. Could this be the key to knowing our inner selves?
Even though the pineal gland is located smack dab in the center of the brain, our inner selves, and our brains don't always communicate with each other. The brain is a strong organ which is driven by organic, analytical thought. Its job is to take in information from our environment, process it, and understand it. The brain is the computer that recognizes what color something is but does not necessarily put deeper thought into it.
Although that example is oversimplified a bit, it is our inner selves that really attach meaning and understanding to things. When the brain and soul are not aligned with each other, it can cause our brain to react without guidance and wisdom of the bigger picture. So, we are required to get in touch with our inner self more often to lead a life with infinite wisdom and guidance.
Awakening our third eye without the help of medications is certainly possible as well. There are many practices we can do on a regular basis that help open the mind and deepen the connection between 
 our inner selves and our analytical brains. The world we live in constantly forces us to work against the better judgment of our inner selves, and so the number of people being spiritually guided are the minority.
What most people don't realize, however, is that they are living in a fallacy of a world in which their physical bodies and analytical minds are at one. The mind and body are disposable, and what is left after we are gone is our inner selves, our spirit, to become connected, once again, with the energy of the universe. We must do the best we can to live out tangible lives through the needs and desires of our spirit, and not let the worldly needs of the body take hold. Our souls do not need money or power, they need love and understanding. Our time here on earth could be made so much happier and healthier by following the guidance of our inner spirit. Getting connected with our third eye is the key to all of it.







Chapter 2: How To Open Your Third Ey
 e
Opening your third eye takes time and practice. While you may have an experience, such as during meditation, where you feel a huge rush of awakening, it will not be fully awakened by one experience. Rather, the awakening is a process and you must take your time and commit to it if you are going to experience a full awakening.
Beginning with meditation is a great way to start opening your third eye, but there are additional ways that you can open it as well. In this chapter, we are going to explore the other ways that you can open your third eye, in addition to meditation. Some of these are practices that you must set aside time for, while others are ones that you can use in your regular daily life. As you are using these practices, it is important to understand that your third eye awakening will be a very spiritual and individual process, but having it in an awakened state means that you are going to integrate it into your daily life. Awakening your third eye should not consume all of your time and result in you doing nothing but focusing on the awakened state of your third eye. Rather, you should set aside some time but otherwise focus on leading your life as you normally would. As your third eye awakens, you will notice differences about yourself that stem from this awakening process. However, you should continue leading your daily life and allowing these changes to naturally integrate, rather than forcing them. Anything forced is not natural, and therefore may inhibit the opening process for your third eye.
Learn to Silence Your Mind
In addition to proper meditation, practice silencing your mind. When we go about our daily lives, there tends to be a lot of chatter and noise in our minds that can keep us constantly distracted and focused on everything except what we are doing. A great way to support your third eye awakening is to learn to silence your mind and focus only on the task at hand. When you do, your mind will be focused, and the background will be silenced. It is typically within' these silences that the third eye and our psychic abilities will kick in and take place.
While it is impossible to entirely stop thinking, you should stay very 
 intentional with your thinking process and focus specifically on what you need to be thinking about depending on what you are physically doing. The third eye chakra tends to "activate" and work during the "in between" times that take place between thoughts and experiences. Therefore, if you want to intentionally activate it, you need to intentionally set aside space for these in-between moments to happen. When you do, make sure that you are paying attention and are aware of when they happen so that you can focus on them and practice strengthening your ability to activate them whenever you desire.
Practice Tuning In
When you feel or hear something coming from your intuition, take the time to acknowledge it, and then actually listen to it. Do whatever it says, and then notice what happens as a result. In many instances life becomes easier, a hazard is avoided, we recognize or learn something we may have missed, or things are otherwise "better" overall. Sometimes these realizations may not be as obvious, but they do exist. Learning to tune into your intuition means you are learning to acknowledge and give credit to your third eye. And, as the saying says "where your attention goes, energy flows" which means that if you are intentionally listening to your third eye and your intuition, it will continue speaking to you. The more you tune in and listen, the better your "relationship" or connection will be, and the better results you will get from tuning in.
Explore Your Natural Creativity
Our creative sides are largely linked to our third eye. Those who are highly creative tend to be very creative, or interested in increasing their creative abilities. If you want to connect closer to your third eye, practice embracing your creativity and letting it free. Even if you don't think you are a good artist or you are inexperienced with various art forms, practice them anyway. Let your imagination take over and create anything that comes to mind. Don't hold expectations of what it should or shouldn't look like, just create. You will find that when you do this, your third eye chakra will feel more enhanced naturally. Remember, your third eye is also your "mind's eye" which means that it is your imagination. When you create from your imagination, you are directly creating from your third eye. It 
 can be an incredible experience alongside your awakening process.
Take Time to Ground Yourself
Your third eye can take you into the spiritual realm through your mind's eye and your intuition, and when you are not careful it can affect your ability to stay grounded. When you are working with your third eye, you should be simultaneously working with your root chakra and grounding yourself. You can do this by meditating on your root chakra and imagine actual etheric roots connecting you to the center of the Earth. This is a great way to counterbalance your third eye and keep you rooted while also allowing you to explore your awakening.
When you don't take the time to root yourself, you can experience what is known as "overstimulation", which means your third eye is working more than your other chakras. This can lead to stress, discomfort, being overwhelmed, and many other unwanted experiences. When the process of awakening becomes uncomfortable, people are more likely to avoid it and therefore they can find themselves not wanting to further their awakening. Furthermore, they might shut their eye out of fear and have difficulty wanting to return to the awakening process at any point in the future. To avoid being overwhelmed and the discomfort, make sure you are always focusing on grounding yourself. If you are not a major fan of meditation, you can also allow your bare feet to connect directly to the Earth, as this is a great physical grounding process.
Exercise Your Third Eye
Exercising your third eye is a great way to help support its opening. It also increases your strength and abilities, meaning you will have an easier time keeping it open, using it on a regular basis, and activating your psychic abilities at any time which you desire. The following are great exercises you can practice to help you support your third eye opening.
One great way is to do meditations that involve all of the chakras. Similar to how it is important to ground and focus on your root chakra, you should also focus on strengthening your other chakras, too. While you may wish to primarily focus on strengthening and growing your abilities with them one at a time, it is important that you continue to give focus to each of them. When one or two chakras 
 become overstimulated from being used more than the others, it can create a spiritual imbalance that can create unwanted side effects for the individual. A great meditation is to lay down and meditate, then imagine your chakras one at a time. Start with your root chakra and work your way up to your crown chakra. As you go, imagine each one shining brighter and brighter until it is shining its brightest. You can also imagine them spinning clockwise, as they are a fluid energy that moves, they do not simply beam like a lamp, but rather swirl like a whirlpool.
Another great way to work with your third eye is to do dream work. Using lucid dreaming meditations, and practicing dream interpretation are both great ways to practice dream work. Lucid dreaming is typically completed using meditations, where you allow yourself to go into a dream state and then you mentally control yourself in the dream state. It allows you to be in control of your dream, rather than your dream be in control like they typically are. Dream interpretation itself requires you to allow the dream to flow naturally, and then you interpret it upon waking up. The best way to do this is to write about your dream in the moments after you have woken up. You can then interpret them on your own, or purchase a dream interpretation journal to help you interpret different elements within' the dream.
Allowing your imagination to flow naturally and on its own is another great way to play with your third eye. Practice sitting in a meditative state, and then let your imagination flow. Just follow it anywhere it goes. During this type of meditation, there is no need to draw your attention back to any particular place, you can simply let it go to wherever it desires to be. You can also allow your imagination to flow while you are creating such as through drawing, writing, pottery, or other crafts. Allowing your meditation to take charge and faithfully following it can help you feel more connected to your third eye, and can help support its awakening.
Intuition lead breaks are another great way to strengthen your third eye. Like with playing with your imagination, you are letting your intuition lead the way. This means that you go anywhere and do anything that your intuition is telling you to. So, if your intuition tells you to go sit by a particular tree in a certain park and look in a certain direction, you do it. When you follow your intuition this way, 
 you leave yourself open to receiving mental "downloads" that are often filled with information that can be beneficial to your present state. You might learn something about yourself, be guided to take a specific action in a certain situation, or otherwise feel lead to do something. All of these stem from your third eye guidance and should be honored when you experience them during this time. If you will recall, honoring your intuition is a great way to activate and increase the strength of your third eye.
The final best way to exercise your third eye is to strengthen your psychic abilities. Whenever you experience one of the claims, allow yourself to fully embrace it. If it is showing you something or encouraging you to do something or trust a certain piece of information with no logical explanation, do your best to follow it. When you do, you will be strengthening the ability and your connection to your third eye.
Opening your third eye is a process. There is the process of opening it for the first time, and then the process of keeping it open. When you nurture your third eye, you will find that life is incredible and much simpler than you may have ever believed it could be. Our third eye can be considered our own built-in "northern star" guiding us in the direction we need to go. When we follow it and we listen to what it has to say, we are naturally guided to where we need to be in order to have the best experiences.
You have likely had many instances where you followed your third eye's guidance without knowing it since your third eye speaks to you through your intuition. When you open it intentionally, however, it becomes easier to follow and explore intentionally, and not go in a different direction because of any fear you may have of listening to your inner voice. When you are not intentionally listening to it and are unaware of the power of your third eye, it can be easy to be led astray and then end up feeling guilty or out of place because you did something you did not want to or that was not good for you despite something inside you telling you that you should have never done it in the first place.
When you are opening your third eye, ensure that you set aside time to continue doing it. There may be times where you don't always focus on it, but overall you should invest a few hours per week on 
 working with your third eye chakra. This will help ensure that you are staying connected with it and that it is serving you in the most powerful way possible. As a result, you will find that life is much more balanced, fulfilling, satisfying, and purposeful. You will find more meaning in your life, and you will find that it is easier to follow your internal compass without fear that you are doing the wrong thing. In fact, you will have a much easier time being yourself, and the judgment and beliefs of others will not have such a strong ability to impact your own beliefs and you will be able to feel much freer. 








Chapter 3:

Techniques to Awaken the Third Eye Chakra

Activating and Maintaining the Third Eye Function 
Specific mudras, or chants in the Hindu and Ayurvedic philosophies, are said to help activate and maintain the health of each chakra. For the Third Eye chakra it is recommended to chant "OM" in a quiet place for 1 - 20 minutes.  There are also musical compositions that are designed to resonate with each specific chakra based on their individual tonal frequency.  The frequencies for the Third Eye chakra are noted at 144 Hz, 288 Hz and 576 Hz. 
Meditation is by far the most widely used practice for tapping into the Third Eye.  While there are numerous forms of meditation, the basic idea is to slow down the thought process.  How many times have we had the word for something on the tip of our tongue yet the more we try to think of what it is, the harder it is to recall?  And later we find that when we have taken our minds off of it, the word comes to us easily and instantly!  
This is why sleep stages and brain waves are inclusive, because many successful practitioners of meditation have described its purpose as bringing cognitive awareness to deeper levels of brain function where theta and delta waves are distinct.  It is here where we are proposed to develop control over stress reduction and the healing processes of our bodies as seen naturally occurring in Stage IV sleep.   
Dr. Nipun Aggarwal, MD, MBA, MHT, and José Silva are two notable authorities who have developed approaches to "mind control," training our mind's eye to consciously, effectively, and almost immediately regulate bodily functions for optimal health.  These approaches are also geared toward maintaining focus and peace of mind in challenging and stressful, everyday situations, memorizing and quickly recalling vast amounts of information, as well as fluent problem solving beyond our five senses. 
Using the third eye does not mean developing magical powers or becoming a psychic. It actually implies controlling your mind more 
 effectively and enjoying a deeper sense of intuition to your surroundings. Unfortunately, this shift does not happen overnight, you will need to dedicate your life to spiritual practices that involves practicing awareness of the mind every day.  
The First Opening
Choose a day when you have lots of free time ahead of you, for instance at the start of a weekend. This lets you focus intimately on the eye-opening practices. Usually, it gets easier after the first opening. You can do it with friends or alone. It is preferable if you wear light-colored clothes. The first opening isn't very intense; you might just feel a tingling between the eyebrows. 

Technique
Go to a quiet, tranquil place where you are sure not to be bothered for at least an hour. 
Light candles around the place 
Remove your shoes, watch, tie, belt and any other restrictive clothing or jewelry 
Lie down on the floor, carpet, blanket or mat with your arms on your sides and palms facing up 
Close your eyes, relax for about 3 minutes and them hum for 5 to 10 minutes 

Phase 1

Begin breathing through the throat gradually becoming aware of the vibration within the larynx 
Continue breathing for 5 to 10 minutes and in case your body or consciousness moves, let it be 

Phase 2

While maintaining the friction in the throat, shift your awareness to the region between your eyebrows 
It is important that you flow with your body's energy. Do not pay attention to time  

Phase 3

Place your palm on the area between the eyebrows about 3 to 
 5 centimeters away from the skin 

Phase 4

You can have the hand in phase 3 position or by your side 
With the eyes closed and larynx vibrating, begin to look for a vibration or tingling between the eyebrows. 
You may also feel a blurry pressure, density or weight  
Do not focus too hard, just remain vacant and let things take their own course 

Phase 5

As soon as you feel a vibration or something between your eyebrows try to connect it to the friction in your throat. 
The vibration will gradually become subtle yet more intense at the same time. 
Some people may feel the vibration in other parts of the body or on the entire forehead. This is normal; just focus on the vibration between the eyebrows. 

Phase 6

Stop the vibration in the Larynx 
Focus on the vibration between the eyebrows 
Be very still and try to focus on the energy around you 
Be aware of any light or colors between the eyebrows 

Remember

Keep your eyes closed throughout the process 
Do not grasp or focus too much on the region between the eyebrows as this might block the process 
If you are practicing with friends, do not touch each other 
If the experience overwhelms you, open your eyes to come back to normal consciousness 
For the first experience, the manifestations of the eye are not as important as getting the technique right. Minor bodily movements such as twitching as well as flashing in and out of 
 consciousness may also occur during the first opening. Ignore them and perfect your technique as if nothing happened.  

Learning How To Meditate 
To begin with, you will need to find the right environment. Choose a place where you can be left alone for at least 30 to 45 min and is relatively quiet. It doesn't need to be completely silent, but try finding a place where you will not be distracted a lot. 
Start By Getting Into A Meditative Posture   

Sitting on the ground with crossed legs, straight back and hands resting on the knees is considered to be a very effective meditative posture. If you're unable to sit on the ground, sit on a chair and keep your back straight. Support your upper body using your abdominal muscles, and do not allow your back to slouch over. Keep your shoulders down and point your chest out. 
Relax Your Body
All of us hold tensions in our body while going through our daily life, which makes focusing very difficult. You will not realize how tensed your muscles are until you consciously try to relax them. Roll your head from side to side to loosen up your body, allow your neck muscles to release and your shoulders to drop. 
Relax Your Mind   

This is one of the most essential parts of opening the third eye. Perhaps, it is also the most challenging one because you will need to remove all thoughts from your head. You can do this by focusing your attention on any one aspect of the physical world, whether it's the sensation of the ground under you, sound of traffic moving past or your breath going in and out. 
While it's nearly impossible to eliminate all thoughts, if a thought does come into your mind, just acknowledge it and allow it to disappear from your mind. You will need a lot of patience and practice to clear your thoughts effectively. People generally find it very difficult to meditate during the first 10 to 20 min. Give yourself some time to transition from the world outside to a meditative state. 
Develop A Habit Of Meditating
The more you think about meditating, the better you'll get at it. You 
 can think about meditation while eating your food, going for a walk or even while brushing your teeth. Even by meditating for just 5 min a day, you will train yourself to become more aware mindfully over time. Use a timer while meditating, as it will stop you from wondering how much time you've already spent meditating. 
Open The Intuitive Part Of The Brain
Begin by observing the world around you. People who are generally shy tend to be more intuitive than the average person simply because they spend a lot of time observing other people; and by doing so they develop a higher understanding of things like facial expression, body language and other types of non-explicit communication. These people are very good at detecting sexual chemistry, lies, hidden messages and sarcasm. 
You can practice intuition by going to a public place like a cafe, restaurant or park on your own and simply observe other people around you. Try to listen into their conversation without being overbearing or rude. Try to create a story in your mind on how these people got together or about what they are talking about or any other information that you find interesting. The more you will do this, the better you'll get at it. 
You can also practice it while sitting around the table with your friends or family, try being quiet for some time and just listen to what they are talking about. Observe people who are not participating in the conversation and watch their reaction to the ongoing interaction. Try and imagine what they might be thinking about when they are not talking. The more you practice it, the better you'll get at. 
Dreams Are Important
People with psychic powers generally believe that dreams can carry messages that can serve as a warning. To analyze your dreams start documenting them. The best way to do this is to maintain a dream diary kept next to your pillow. After you have documented a few dreams, try to find connections between them and check whether any part of your dreams has come true. 
Try Following Your Gut Instinct
Have you ever felt peculiar about a place, event or person that you 
 really can't put into words? Have you strongly felt that a certain situation might occur without having any evidence to back your feeling? These kinds of feelings are called gut instincts, and all of us have it in different degrees. Most people overlook their gut instincts and try to live their lives on the basis of rational thinking. Next time you have such a feeling, make a note of it and check if it actually comes true. Also try to determine if these feelings connect to your life in any way. 
Always keep in mind that just because you have a gut feeling about something it doesn't really mean that it would come through. While it may come true, it could take months or even years for it to take place, which is why it will always help to make a note of these feelings so that when it happens you know for sure that you already knew about it. 
Experiences After The Opening Of The Third Eye 
After your third eye opens you will go through some unusual experiences. While many of the experiences will be pleasant, there are some that might not be. If you feel some activity or pressure in the center of your forehead, it means that either your third eye has already opened or will open very soon.  
Seeing Through The Third Eye
The Third Eye lets you to see past the visual images around you. With it, you can sense and visually interpret the energy around you. As you watch people walk in the park, you will grasp much more than just the abstract concept of random people walking in the park. You begin to see the interplay between the motion, energy, and intention in a vivid internal visual map. Life, therefore, becomes almost tangible to you.
While our physical eyes are blind to energy and can only see the results of energy, the Third Eye allows one to visualize where the energy is, to understand it and to actually see it. Our eyes are designed to see light while the third eye helps you process the energy you interact with in a precise manner.  
Having an open Third Eye may seem like something mystical at first, but it merely is a new way that helps your mind communicate with the rest of your senses. This communication is direct and so 
 uninhibited that you can accurately predict events and perceive potentials that are not physically present. This is a skill that is real that has been experienced by people from as early as the Paleolithic period. 
What To Expect After The Third Eye Has Opened
After your third eye has opened, do not be surprised when you go through some unusual experiences. This will have a lot to do with what you see. For example when you are very tired after a long day's work and are about to sleep, you might see different kinds of images in the eye of your mind after you close your physical eyes. 
Many of these images won't make a lot of sense and will be blurred or vivid. There are a number of dimensions you can reach with an opened third eye and you will experience them gradually. It all depends on your thought's vibration levels. The higher your vibration levels the more dimensions you will be able to explore. If you're seeing blurred visions, you will need to further strengthen your spiritual powers. Reaching a higher state of meditation will help you see more clearly with your third eye. 
Higher And Lower Dimensions
If the vibrations of your thoughts are low then you will most likely see visions from a lower dimension. The lower dimension is the area where you will see restless souls. These are souls of the people who either killed themselves or could not forgive themselves for having done something in their lives. Since they are afraid of being judged they do not move into the higher dimension. 
People who see visions from the lower dimension generally get scared of what they are seeing and regret opening their third eye. However, you don't have to remain in the lower dimension. Most people who remain at the lower dimension do so because the vibration created by their thoughts attracts this dimension. All you need to do is increase your vibration and step into a higher dimension. 
If you would like to close your third eye, you can do so by avoiding spiritual practices, indulging in conversations that have nothing to do with the spiritual world and getting rid of every object in your surrounding that reminds you of it. While your third eye may not 
 close immediately, slowly and gradually it will. However, it is important to note that once your third eye closes, it will take a lot of effort to open it back again. 
With higher thought vibrations that include feelings of happiness, gratitude, love or peace you will be able to see more peaceful visions that would bring in a sense of fulfillment and relief to your soul. In this dimension, you will have visions of the hurt people go through and ideas that will help you make situations better along with feelings of compassion and forgiveness. 
Sensitivity To Good And Bad Energies
Once your third eye has been awakened you'll become more sensitive to the energies of people around you. You will be able to detect between good and bad energies. It's always good to pick up good energies, because it will affect you positively. However, it is impossible not to pick up bad energies, which is why it's always good to avoid places where you know you will most likely to be hit by bad energies. This is one of the main reasons why people with stronger spiritual powers feel drained after spending time in a crowd, since they get hit by loads of bad energies. 
When you're in the middle of bad energies try imagining being surrounded by positive energies in order to protect yourself. Think of something that makes you happy and continue to do so till you can get out of that atmosphere. It will stop your mind from being dragged into negative thoughts. 
Once you're out of that situation and come back home, get under a shower with the water set to a slightly lower temperature than what you're used to. Imagine the water cleaning away all the bad energies that has affected you. As the water flows down from your body feel the bad energies flowing down with it. This is an excellent exercise to eliminate the effects of bad energy on your mind. As you do it for a couple of days, you will experience the cleansing effect more strongly. It will also help you become more focused and energetic throughout the day, and the ability of negative energies to disrupt your regular thought process will become weaker. It will also improve the quality of your life, your health, sleep, relationships and the general state of your mind. 
Third Eye Opening Experiences
After your third eye has opened, during the initial period you might experience high-level vibrations that might scare you. The trick to get over this period is to stay calm and allow the vibrations to take control of your mind. As you stay calm, your mind will synchronize to the vibrations and will become accustomed to it. 
You may see visions of beautiful places, which may include visions of a beautiful day or a beautiful house or anything that you feel is very peaceful and an enlightening place to be. Even though you will not be at such a place physically, your mind will reap all the benefits of being in such a place. The vastness of the images that you see in your vision will vary on the level of focus and meditation that you have achieved. While for some the visions might be in a frame wherein the mind will be aware of the darkness that's around the frame, for some the vision would be frameless and the clarity will be so great that the mind will no longer see any darkness or troubled images. 
Closing the Third eye
Many people may choose to shut their third eye. The experiences post awakening and activation of the third eye can be quite overwhelming for them. In such cases, the easiest way to keep it shut is to not use it at all. Opening the eye requires effort and changes in your normal life. If you do mundane and meaningless things that don't require the use of the third eye, it remains closed by itself. Just keep yourself focused on the regular stream of things.  
For those who have opened their third eye, just push yourself back and become more grounded in the present. Keep bringing yourself to where you are and what is around you. Although you might start seeing and hearing more, you can control it. Just stop yourself from seeing or hearing the things you don't want to. It is as simple as closing your eyes when you don't want to watch something or skipping a channel on the television. Pay more attention to your physical presence and way of life. This will keep you grounded and prevent consciousness on higher levels. Don't drift your mind towards thoughts which are too deep and do not concern your daily life. All this helps to tone down the awareness of the third eye. 







Chapter 4: Guided Day Meditations to Awaken the Third Ey
 e
If music is food for the soul, meditation is the most potent food for the third eye chakra. In fact, meditation is the best food for any endeavor in spiritual awakening. Meditation should be practiced alongside the exercises. 
What Exactly is Meditation?
Meditation is a skill that can be learned and honed, just like any other skill we try our hand at. It does not require any special talents. On the other hand, it also needs to be approached without skepticism. 
If you are new to meditation, you may feel a bit awkward and uncomfortable at first. However, the majority of people who experience the joys of meditation quickly learn to love it as a relaxing and enriching activity. 
Meditation is basically an age-old practice established in ancient Indian traditions. It is practiced with the goal of opening the mind for deeper intuition and perception. There are also several very powerful meditations developed specifically to open the third eye and strengthen the pineal gland.
Meditation also helps you control your thoughts and your mind, putting you, as the proponents of Buddhism believe, in control of your life. This is an extremely empowering gift to have. So many things in life are out of our control—but by learning to control our thoughts, we can respond to situations wisely and calmly and make better choices. This skill becomes even more pronounced when your third eye chakra is awakened. 
Meditation develops clarity and improves concentration and is possibly one of the best ways to relieve stress. These are just a few of the benefits of meditation. All of the physical and mental benefits—as well as the research that confirms them—are just too numerous to list here. 
How does Meditation Work?
When you meditate, your brain enters into an alpha wavelength 
 state, (which is different from the normal beta wavelength state that the brain resonates with). In this quiet and relaxed state, the mind becomes more open to receiving subtle messages and insights from our third eye. The regular practice of meditation allows you to enter more and more easily into the alpha wavelength state and over time, you can receive deeper wisdom, knowledge, and information from the non-physical realm. It also helps strengthen spiritual gifts. 
Step 1:  Choose a Location
For meditation to hit the primary target, you need to look for a place that there are minimal disturbances. A quiet place is all you need to start with. When you are choosing the site, you need to make sure that you will be consistent. The person to guide you on the meditation should be compatible with you. Your body, as well as the mind, needs to get used to the place that you will choose. A position that you will choose should be in charge of activating your third eye. That too you should consider when choosing the place. 
Step 2: Choose the Time with an Intention
After you, through with the first step, work on the second step; that is, selecting the time that you will be going for the guided meditation sessions. You will need to go for the sessions daily so that they can be useful. The time that you will decide to be having the sessions should be reasonable. You should remain fixed at the time that you will choose. Think of the time that will suit you best, and your body, as well as the mind, should be free and in a relaxation mood. You need to avoid scheduling the sessions immediately before or after the time that you take your meals. When you choose a morning, it will work best for you. But that does not mean that any other time is not appropriate. All that is needed when you choose any additional time besides morning is you maintain consistency. 
Step 3: Make Some Stretches Before You Begin the Meditation Session
You need to make some stretches before you go to the meeting since you will have to sit longer in the room. You can have a more comfortable time as you meditate on how to open your third eye so 
 that you can realize the power that is in you. When you do this any time before getting into the meditation sessions, you will go to a deeper length of your mental framework. You can try bending over as you try to touch the toes for at least a minute. You can stretch your arms above the head as a way of relaxing. Do not forget to lay on your back and make sure that your feet are in the air at ninety degrees with the body. 
Step 4: Position Yourself
Meditation cannot take place while you are standing. You need to adopt a sitting position where you feel relaxed, and you need to cross your legs. If you find this posture disturbing and not comfortable, decide to change and take one which is not difficult for you. A position that will make you relax and focus quickly on your breathing, as well as meditation, is what you need to consider. You should sit on the floor while you close your legs so that you will meditate better on how to open your third eye and access to the hidden spiritual treasures. Your chest should be open and your back straight. Consider placing your hands either on the knees or the lap depending on the position that you will better. Your head needs to be upright and close the eyes gently so that you can get into the world of meditation. 
Step 5: Relax
After you adopt a posture that you feel comfortable in, the next logical thing that you need to do is give your body the chance to settle. Meditation cannot take place when you are not relaxed. Be mindful of how your body is feeling and if there are feelings that you need to work on them before the actual meditation, do that. Make sure that your entire body is relaxed and ready to begin the session. Pay attention to all parts of the body each at a time as you sit as well as relax. Shift your mind from any worry that you may be having and be ready to pay attention to the present moment. As you breathe in and out, make sure you are feeling your body expanding and contracting when you take every breath. 
Step 6: Breath
Breathing is a crucial technique in meditation. Be focused on how you breathe in and out and put your full attention on how you are breathing. Take deep breaths from time to time on the count of three as you inhale and exhale. 
Step 7: Empty the Mind
At this point, you will begin focusing on the third eye, which is at the center of the forehead. With still, your eyes are closed, move your eyes on the direction of the third eye. Throughout the entire meditation process, you need to maintain the focus without moving the eyes from that position. Remaining on the emphasis, count from one hundred moving backwards but do not worry if you are not able to experience the third eye at that moment. You can take quite some time to get used to the process of meditation. It can even take longer to activate your third eye, but that should not worry you. All you need to do is maintain consistency, and with time all things shall work out. 
Step 8: Access the Third Eye
When you are through with counting from a hundred backward, it is time that you try to access the sight. Make sure that you had maintained the focus in the previous steps so that this point will be a success. When you have the attention, you will notice that all things are dark apart from your third eye. When the eye is active, your brain will be as well relaxed and functioning on an entirely new level. All the sides of the brain will work in unison, and you will feel the energy that surrounds you. You will feel a new energy level running through your body as well as around you. That is the moment you will know that you got access to your third eye. When you focus on an object or image strongly, that is the time that you know that you are accessing the eye. Your mind needs to be consumed by the object or image fully for that to happen. 
Step 9: Work on Experiencing Your Third Eye
Everyone has a different way of reacting to the activation of their third eye. You may experience your mind flashing visual effects and any other experiences and scenes that you may have come through. It can be a way of seeing your thoughts like the way they appear if they can be laid out. As you continue focusing on experiencing your third eye, you will work on opening the eye slowly by slowly. 
Step 10: Maintain Your Focus on the Third Eye
You need to remain focused on the third eye for about ten to fifteen minutes. You may have a headache during the very first sessions but know that it is a normal thing that will happen to almost every beginner. There is no need to get worried since the headache will be no more as you get used to the practice. You have to train yourself to fully appreciate your third eye and try to maintain your focus on one image. Amongst the pictures that will appear in your mind, pay attention to one that you decide to choose. Make sure you work to keep the mind centered on the focus that you have made. When you maintain your focus on the third eye, you will find it open slowly. That will mean that you had achieved what your aim was when you were deciding to go meditation. Your third eye will open, and you will have a great experience with the precious gift that is in you. 
Step 11: Get out Meditation Slowly
When you finally achieve what you intended, the next thing to do is bring yourself out of the meditation. Remove your focus from your third eye slowly still maintain the relaxation mood that you were in when in the whole process. Your guide will let you know that you have to be aware of your breath. You can choose to count as a way to still focus on your breathing when working on bringing your mind from the meditation. Open your eyes slowly to end the entire process finally. 
In cases when you need to open your third eye any other time, practice the above steps, and it will be easier this time around. That is because it will not be the first time to do that. Work on making your body feel better as well as become in touch with the inner self. However, that will not come immediately, since you need to practice 
 the meditation process, and it will make you go to greater heights. You will be more in touch with yourself as well as the energy in you and around you. That is the main idea of meditating to open your third eye. 
There are signs that you will experience to show that your eye is open. Once you manage to open the third eye, you will no longer have self-doubt. You will have a desire to research as well as learn more. You will be more sensitive to spirits, and you may see them from time to time. You will be wiser and will learn from your past mistakes. The chances are that you will be more creative, and you will feel divine inspirations more often. You will achieve great potential, and you will have joy and experience a healthy life once you can connect with the spirits. You will find the world a place of harmony to live in, and you will appreciate your life more. When you finish the self-journey, do not be mean but work to show other buddies with a similar gift with you the way of self-realization.







Chapter 5: The Powers of an Open Third Ey
 e
Freedom from Anxiety, Stress, and Worries 
With every meditation session, your consciousness level increases. You will start achieving higher states of consciousness. The light inside you illuminates you. It takes away your insecurities and fears. Our worries are a product of our worldly burdens. With every step we take in our lives, the Karma has its effect. It keeps on piling up. We fail to recognize the impact of Karma and keep fretting over the results. Meditation gives us the power to ponder upon our actions and the resultant Karma. It all starts making sense and you can make amends. Clear thoughts give birth to reasoning. We also start giving weight to cause and not just the results. This helps in balancing the effect of Karma.  
The illumination also makes you realize the importance of various things in life. You can prioritize things better. We do many things without setting up clear priorities. This creates a lot of backlash in form of pending mortgage, student loan, or unpaid credit card bills. These keep haunting our thoughts. Once you can see clearly inside yourself, you start understanding that most of the actions were unnecessary. You can also get out of them once you reason and align them properly. This is the best way to come clear from this vicious cycle of debts and liabilities.  

❖
        Victory Over Emotions
One of the biggest reasons for our distress is our emotions. Love, hatred, dislike, and affection are some of the free-flowing emotions. We attach undue importance to things. The negative energies and emotions accumulate and make us sad. Most of these emotions and energies are avoidable. When you look deep inside yourself, you find that most of your outbursts were unreasonable and uncalled for. You could have avoided the negative energies by suppressing them. These eventually lead to sadness. Your inner light will give you the wisdom to introspect. This time is entirely yours. In this moment, you are unchallenged. There is no victory or loss. You are in complete control. There is no ego or tussle. You take rational decisions. This leads to the birth of positive decisions. You are able to shun negative energies. It is relieving and light. You become 
 happy from within. You get mature and become affable in real terms. You are able to take proactive steps towards improving your health and relationships. You can make prudent decisions towards strengthening your career and financial situation. The intuitive power of the third eye will help you in assessing your future course of action. 

❖
        You Start Changing from Within
Now, we know that meditation helps you in self-introspection. You understand the impact of Karma. You also understand the impact even the small steps would have on your life. You are able to predict the consequences of those actions. This knowledge helps in shaping up a new you. You become a better and improved human being. Your thought process starts changing from the root. Your worries and insecurities vanish slowly and gradually. This makes you more confident and strong. As your Third eye opens up your physical, emotional and mental well being improves. This starts reflecting in your overall personality. You mellow down. You become calm yet confident.  
Your path to success becomes clear. Your goals become clear and the path leading up to them also gets crystal clear. There is no confusion. The mind makes it way through the darkness. It is no more just an entangled structure of nerve cells. It gets illuminated.  
You start realizing the power of your mind. It is a powerhouse. It gets illuminated and you know the things in place. Once the light comes the path gets clear. The challenge lies in bringing the light. The pineal gland or the Ajna chakra needs to be illuminated and activated. This requires focus, dedication, and discipline. You will have to work your way till here with meditation. You will have to open your Third eye inwards. This will need patience and determination. It is a doable task. You will just have to dedicate yourself to it. The path is not tough. It only requires you to keep walking on it. The journey is calming and rewarding. You only need to take the first step towards it. It will lead you from there.  
It is Possible for Anyone to Activate the Third Eye Chakra 
One of the most important things to understand in this whole process is that the third eye is in every person irrespective of their religion, race, or creed. Activating your third eye is a spiritual 
 process and not a religious one. You can belong to any religion or faith and still practice it. It is not a worship of any god. It is self-realization. It is empowering yourself. It is all about knowing yourself inside-out. It is achieved through the process of meditation. 
Most of us keep looking for information about ourselves outside. We ask for opinions about ourselves. We worry about the things people say about us. We care for those things. This leads to miseries. The opinions expressed by anyone are laced with prejudice and aided with a different perspective. They can never be unbiased or neutral. You have very little or nothing to gain from such opinions and everything to lose. You may start correcting yourself irrespective of the fact that you were never wrong in the first place. This would be counterproductive. But, still, this happens all the time in our lives. We start shaping ourselves into different people and not the way we want ourselves to be.  You are trying to be an image of someone else. God created you in his image. Why would you want to be an image created by another mere mortal? 
An illuminated third eye guides you to the path of self-correction based on rationality. The light shows you the right path. But, you need to bring this light. You need to open the third eye. You need to decalcify the pineal gland or activate the Ajna chakra. With guided meditation and focus, it is possible for anyone to activate the third eye chakra and see the light. It is like awakening to a new consciousness. It cannot be corrupted in any manner because it comes from inside you. It is free of all blemishes. 
The third eye chakra rests in your pineal gland. It is in the middle of the brain. It is the 'anchor of the soul'. It regulates your sleep cycles, sexual maturation, and vital hormones. It gets calcified with impurities over the time. The third eye meditation helps in decalcification of the pineal gland. It opens your mind. 

Eight Tips for Effective Energy Meditation
 

Whether you are doing energy meditation as core energy qigong, pranayama, meditation for a while, kundalini, or another method, or if you have just started, the follow these eight tips will help you advance. Many of these tips can also be applied to any other type of meditation. 
Meditation is an activity that, for some time, concentrates your focus on a specific object or in a particular way. Energy meditation means that you use creativity and the sense of Life's energy, prana, or "qi" as your focus. The energy centers and pathways in your body are a great way to meditate because they are an effective way to follow your mind. It's fun and usually feels good as you grow your skills. 
Energy meditation motivates you in your body at this stage, which is an effective way to "get out of your head." It also has some benefits for your health, including activating your natural response to relaxation, better posture, tension release, better circulation, deeper breathing, coherent brain and heart function, and improved immune response. Energy therapy helps you feel relaxed, optimistic, and vital. It brings you, more importantly, to the core level of "whom you are" and "what you are to do." It ties you to your internal direction, deeper meaning, and connection to Life. 
We concentrate on the Chinese qigong method and Core Energy Meditation on three primary energy centers ("dahntee-ens") inside your body:  
1. Your lower dantian or body core in your lower abdomen that is connected to your inner vitality. 
2. Your central dantian or heart center in your chest which deals with your refined senses and qualities of interaction with others, including appreciation, gratitude, confidence, compassion, and love. 
3. Your upper dantian or Mind center in the center of your brain, which relates to your intuition, mental powers, insight, concentration, and ability to watch your experiences calmly without being overwhelmed. 
You may not imagine or feel much when you first practice imagining and feeling your energy centers. It might be a obstacle to keep the training based on them. It is also common to contact one, but not the other or two and not the third. Your experience depends on your natural vision and kinesthetic sensing capacity, the degree to which your energy centers are triggered, and how much you have experienced inside your body. 
Wherever you are in the ability to imagine and feel inside your mind, it's all right. You can benefit from the practice, regardless of your current skills. When you practice consistently over time, you will slowly be able to perceive, observe, absorb, distribute, develop, and maintain your internal life force.  
You will also notice positive effects as you increase your ability to feel inner guidance, to make good choices, to be present, and to follow your best intentions. You come to feel better in your body, heart, mind, and spirit, healthy and positive. You will establish a consistently reliable, optimistic, clear, and coherent private, energetic vibration, or what I would like to call a "core energy state." 
Eight Efficient Energy Meditation Tips: 1. Practice daily, first, and foremost. If you only exercise if you feel that you need it, remember that in practice, you have much more to do than use it to relax and go to the core when you "stress" (which is undoubtedly important). If you practice each day, your experience and tensions during the last 24 hours will be better handled so that you approach Life in a much more transparent, more relaxed, positive, and focused way. 
You can also note the difference when you miss a day's workout when unresolved stress clouds your perception and affects your feeling. In the first few years of practice, it is common to experience the release of "old things," which can bubble into your consciousness as you meditate. The more tensions you release from the past, the freer you can live in the present. 
To encourage your daily exercises, I recommend you choose a time that is appropriate for you, maybe 15-20 minutes, and plan it every day at the same time (for example, in the early morning). Even if it is challenging to wake up early, you are probably starting to look forward to waking up and joining a "core energy state." The main reason for daily practice is that each time you sit down, you can move into practice and build on what you did the day before. You're going to stay in the flow. If you practice sporadically or seldom, you will "always begin." 2. 2. If you have exercised regularly for some time, you may want to consider increasing the time you spend on your practice. While 15-20 minutes per day is good, meditating longer is likely to intensify and strengthen benefits. The longer you meditate, the deeper, clearer, and quieter you can enter. 
For the first 10-15 minutes of practice, a lot of mental chat is healthy, which slows down slowly the longer you continue. When you sit for 30-40 minutes or longer, you may be in a quieter state for more time. The extra time will increase the effect in your mind and body and make this a more accurate point of reference to which you can return more quickly. 
For increasing your time, you can find one more extended session a week or two longer sessions a week on weekends. But don't give yourself too much to make it a mission. Lengthen your time with the increase of your natural desire. 
3. In addition to increasing the total time, you can increase the time you spend working on any energy center. For example, you can comfortably concentrate on your brain core, but you will find it harder to focus on your heart or lower abdomen. One or more of these centers are commonly more easily focused on, and one or more are more challenging. 
You may want to spend more time at the energy centers that you are most familiar with when you first start training. That's okay, to build your confidence. However, as you start, your training and your Life will be most advanced when you spend extra time focusing on the energy centers you think least or are most challenged. These are probably the places where your flow of energy is not as fluid and free. You may store long-lasting feelings or traumas in these places. 
Spend more time on these areas with a positive mind, a sense of understanding of how your body works to keep you safe, and relaxed analytical focus will start releasing these kept pressures so that your energy system performs more entirely and becomes more deeply integrated. One way to do this is to turn your attention to a sense of spacious quiet in the center of every energy center. Just being in an energy center can have a therapeutic effect, if you sit there without attempting to do anything or make anything happen. 
In the Daoist tradition, it is seen as healthy when you begin your practice to focus more on your lower dantian or lower abdominal energy core. When your energy builds up in this center, your energy naturally will flow up to the middle dan tian or heart center, then up to the upper dan tian or mind center. Whether you pursue the progress or another method depending on your specific needs, it's a 
 good idea to start and finish your research by collecting energy from your lower dan tian. 
4. To support your lower dantian's strong vitality well for your body. Excess energy is necessary to focus your attention strongly and expand your practice. Your physical health is the source of this extra energy. Track these five things to improve your physical vitality: 

Go with your "To-Do List,"  
Get enough rest,   
Consume a variety of foods as fresh and as close as possible to their natural state,  
Drink enough water to remain well-hydrated (most of us have around 64 ounces a day) and  
Exercise periodically If you have committed themselves to practice early, didn't eat quality food, but are wary of your life and haven't gone to bed soon enough, didn't get well hydrated and haven't exercised properly, you probably won't have the energy to have a good practice. You can devote a lot of time to the opening, triggering, clearing, and integration of your energy centers with enough physical vitality. 

5. Imagine and feel breathing through any energy center to activate and clear it. As you inhale, imagine and think that you fill your breath with that energy center. When you exhale, imagine and feel that you empty that power center and release any tension. Try to believe that your breath brings light and space into your energy center when you inhale. Try to imagine that you have any congestion or density when you exhale. 
This technique can also be used to pressure anywhere in the body. Consider and sound like you breathe into the area around the narrow area, softening the edges. Draw your breath directly into the center of the space where you feel stress or density. Imagine and feel like your breath brings light, openness, and space into that area. Exhale any density or density. 
6. You can also spend more time on the links between the energy centers. Three donations are linked to the Central Channel or the 
 Middle Mai Channel. This stream is noticeable and feels like a vertical pipe running from your perineum to the middle of your body (in front of the spine, but also the tail) at the top of your head. This channel binds and combines the three dantians into a cohesive balanced system. 
You might feel that one energy center is reliable, open, transparent, and others are dull, tense, or cloudy. Through the Central Channel, you can imagine and feel the connection between them as a way to activate and clear the nude center. You can also visualize and sense the breath moving through the two as you breathe in and out. 
Another explanation is that you feel open in the energy centers, but lack a sense of integration. You may feel they're not aligned vertically, or they don't work well together. For instance, your mind doesn't work with your heart and body. They are not in harmony. We are not in sync. Your mind thinks something, your heart feels something else, and your body wants something entirely different. 
If this is the case, the Central Channel can be perceived and felt like a bright, vertical column with the three Dantians in its center and breathing through this channel. During my training, I like to do this at several stages to refresh my focus. I also complete my practice by inhaling the central channel and breathing down the primary chain several times. Then, before I open my eyes, I collect energy in the lower dan tian. 
The bottom line of energy therapy is that it is person-specific. You start by learning good ways. Once you master the forms, you can adapt them to your particular needs and what happens to you at any time. The more you understand the practice and the more sensitive you are to your internal flow or fluidity, the more you know how to proceed. Energy meditation makes you aware of your inner direction. 
7. After you have practiced a method or form of meditation extensively through a guided video, you can try to practice yourself without the audio. After months or years of training, this could be. Offer your inner guidance to refine and grow your inner strength. Take time to open areas of pressure, use your breathing, and allow your conscious presence in your energy field to lead the way. 
Whenever your mind wanders, notice and embrace it and return 
 gently, as you stay present, accept anything, and return to let energy flow smoothly through you, I believe you are going to discover more profound confidence in your more profound life force. 
This brings us to the 8th tip for adequate exercise. 
8. You have a firm and clear intention for your practice when you sit to meditate. Having a strong "why" leads to an unwavering focus. For example, in meditation, my purpose is to become a clear channel through which life energy can flow. I call this a state of core energy. I feel free, calm, purposeful, clear, and whole in such a state. When I move into life from this state, I can feel and follow what I am to do at every moment, my service to others. When I sit down in my mind to meditate profoundly and, my practice has more energy. 
Remember why you are meditating and sharing your intention when you sit down to practice. See whether this helps to motivate you and strengthen your focus. I hope that the eight guidelines above will help to cultivate your meditative experience, refine the energy of your life, and enhance the positive feelings of vitality and purpose. 
Benefits of Opening Your Third Eye
Here are a lot of benefits from the decalcification or activation of your third eye or also called your pineal gland. I see a lot of people are wondering how to know their third eye is opened or decalcified.
Our everyday life leads to calcification of the third eye and therefore, it doesn't work at its full potential by producing DMT and connecting us to other worlds.
If you have successfully decalcified and activated your third eye, you should observe a lot of benefits.
I have listed some of the most popular benefits of third eye activation.
Benefits of opening your third eye.
A lot of people believe that the third eye functions as a spiritual gateway through which you can see beyond time and space. In short, activating the third eye, your perceptions exceed the limits of the material, physical word and the mind awakens and connects you to levels of being where time doesn't exist. And this leads to a 
 number of great advantages:
1. Greater awareness / Awakening.
Advantages of awakening your third eye.Awakening your third eye metaphysically opens our eyes from a deep spiritual lethargy. This allows us to begin to perceive the "truth" that surrounds us.
What this means is that you will begin to see the world we live in is full of control and inequality and is not in harmony with the rest of the Universe.
You will feel a desire to be free and live in a world filled with love, compassion and truth. Eventually, you will feel and see the interconnectedness with everything around you in nature and will feel a deep connection with the Universe.
This is a deep sense that allows you to see the beauty in all things and to realize that your physical I is not your true nature.
2. Psychic Powers / Empathy.
Your instincts are as a well-adjusted compass that points you in the "right" direction to achieve what your soul is looking for.
It's almost like you know what will happen and what will be the results of certain events. That's why some people think that the most notable prophets of our time had their third eye opened.
The feeling that we are all part of the same whole also becomes clear and you are capable of empathy with others, knowing that they are part of the same universal consciousness.
3. Laws of attraction / Space order.
Opening your third eye chakra.As a result of the opened third eye, the third eye chakra is activated, which in turn will help to balance your chakra system.
When you are energized and in harmony with the Universe, you are like a giant magnet for events, people, situations etc. By harnessing the power of the positive intent, gratitude and love, you can manifest much more beauty in your life. You will notice that the number of useful "coincidences" will be greatly increased.
4. Vivid dreams / Lucid dreaming.
This means that you will feel that you can control your dreams and you will be able to realize your true infinite self and the infinite possibilities that exist in a state of sleep.
Additionally, you will realize that this world of dreams is the same as the "real world" in which we live, for example the fact that we have unlimited possibilities and we are all masters of our own universe.
5. Astral travel / Astral projection.
When the third eye connects to this level of existence where there is no time and space, our soul is able to rise above the physical body and astral travel in time and space.
Astral projection is one of the benefits coming with the activation of your third eye.It has the ability to go anywhere in the universe and at any time in the universe.
Many people belive that when we dream, we actually astral travel, and with fully opened third eye we are able to astral travel while we are awake, for example, when we meditate.
6. Imagination / Creativity.
With activated pineal gland, you are continuously connected to the plane of existence where our souls reside.
In the plane of existence, there is no time or space, just an endless love and truth - everything that has happened and will ever happen already exists in the plane of existence.
After connecting to it, you will find that your imagination and creativity are super charged and you are able to find solutions to problems easier because all the solutions to all problems already exist in this place. Along with the ability to have vivid dreams and lucid dreaming, this will spark your imagination to a whole new level.







Chapter 6: 
 Psychic Abilitie
 s
What Are Psychic Abilities?
Psychic abilities are another interesting topic in spirituality. It should be noted that when you practice the exercises in this book, especially the meditation techniques, then you will definitely awaken your psychic abilities. This is because there is really nothing supernatural about psychic abilities, especially when your chakras are strong and healthy. There are many kinds of psychic abilities. Let us discuss them one by one:
Clairvoyance
Among the different psychic abilities out there, the psychic ability of clairvoyance is probably the most common. Once again, clairvoyance is the ability of clear-seeing. But, just to give you another effective exercise that you can do, here is something that you can try:
Assume a meditative posture and relax. Think of a place in your house. Make it specific, for example, your bathroom or the other room in your house. Now, visualize it as clearly as you can. Pay attention to small details such as the arrangement of objects, the floor, ceiling, walls, and others. Take note of what you see. Now, open your eyes, and check if you were able to "see" the said room in your mind's eye. 
This is an excellent exercise that will allow you to travel and see places only with the power of clairvoyance. For this exercise, you can also use the visualization screen that we have talked about. Do not rush in doing this technique. Take as much time as you need to take note of the details in your mind's eye. 
Now, in your first several attempts, you will most likely fail to see everything clearly and correctly, but do not allow this to discourage you. Instead, just maintain a positive mindset and keep on practicing. Do not allow failures to discourage you. You will never truly fail as long as you keep on trying. The more that you practice this technique, the more that you will get good at it. This is simply how it is when you try to learn a psychic ability. It is just like learning any other new skill. So, just keep on practicing and doing 
 your best. After some time, as long as you are patient enough, you will soon notice some progress. You will start to see that you are more able to envision the place in your mind more clearly and that you can tell correctly where certain things are as if you were actually in the place that is being visualized. All these use the power of the third eye. If you train yourself well, then this will allow you to see different places and dimensions. Although this may seem like a simple visualization exercise, it is also very effective. In fact, if you come to think about it. All of these spiritual practices are actually very simple, but it just a matter of practicing it sincerely and continuously that can create a big difference.
Pyrokinesis  
Pyrokinesis is the psychic ability to control fire. Yes, there are some people who can do this. Unfortunately, there are many scammers and hacks out there that use trickery to do a similar act. The truth is that pyrokinesis is real, and you can control fire with your mind. Here is an exercise that will allow you to do this. For this exercise, you will need to use some matches:
Assume a meditative posture and relax. Now, light a match and focus on the flame. You should try to connect to this flame and make it "jump" out of the matchstick. There is no right or wrong way to do this. You have to find your own way. The key is simply to focus on the flame and then be one with it. Once you are with it, you will feel as if the flame has become an extension of yourself. This is the time when you can actually control the flame as if it were your arm or finger as if it were just another part of your body. You can now make it jump or move it to be separated from the matchstick. 
This technique may take some practice. If you are just starting out, you might find it a challenge. In fact, out of 20 tried, you might only be able to do it once or even none at all. However, do not be discouraged and just keep on practicing. The more that you practice, the more that you will get good at it. This is just the first basic exercise for learning pyrokinesis. Once you get good at it, you can now try another exercise where you get to control the flame and make it dance; hence it is called as the dancing flame exercise. For this exercise, you will need a candle:
Assume a meditative posture and relax. Light a candle in front of 
 you and just focus on the flame. Be one with the candle flame. The more that you focus on the candle, the more that you will feel as if you were being one with it. Try to associate yourself with the candle or at least make it as an extension of yourself. The key here is to focus on the candle flame and not to allow other thoughts to exist in your mind. Now, once you feel like you are attuned with the flame, will it to bend to the right (or to any direction of your choice), and then make it bend toward another direction, and so on. You might want chant, "Bend to the right (or any direction of your choice)," to impress your will upon it. Another technique is to visualize the candle flame bending or leaning in the direction where you want it to bend. Now, if you get good at this, then you can take it a step further. This time, what you need to do is to make the flame move so that it separates from the wick. This is the same as the first exercise with the match. This is the way to extinguish the flame. Another technique is to visualize the flame getting smaller and smaller until it finally disappears. 
Now, the next part is probably the hardest part. This technique is a way to light up a candle. The steps are as follows:
Visualize the molecules of the candle. See the molecules moving faster and faster as they heat up. As you do this, see and feel the wick of the candle getting red and hotter and hotter. Continue with this visualization. Believe in it and in its power. Soon enough, with enough willpower, the candle will light up. 
This is an advanced technique so do not expect to be able to do it easily. You might want to practice these techniques as a routine. First, try to just move or make the candle flame bend, and then have it separated from the wick to snuff it out, and then finally relight it back. Once you can do all these, you can easily use the fire element in anything. This is how spiritual masters can set an object in fire from a distance. Indeed, this is also not easy to master. But, if you feel like you are attuned to the element of fire, then this is probably the psychic ability that is best for you. 
Telekinesis
Telekinesis, or simply TK, is another famous psychic ability. It refers to the ability to move, or influence injects with the mind. Now, it should be noted that telekinesis is divided into two kinds: micro 
 telekinesis and macro telekinesis. Micro TK refers to the ability to influence randomness or odds. For example, being able to influence a random number generator or a shuffled deck of cards. Macro TK refers to how most people understand what TK is, which is the moving of objects with the mind. For you to better understand micro and macro TK, it is best to do so using an actual practice:
Micro TK
For this exercise, all you need is a coin. Remember that micro TK is about influencing the outcome of randomness or odds. Here, you will use your mind to influence the outcome of a coin flip. The first step is to get a coin - any coin will do as long as it is well balanced, which means that when you flip it, it will randomly be a head or a tail side. The weight should be distributed equally on both sides. Do not worry; it seems that all ordinary coins are like this, so just use your regular coin. The second step is to choose your side: head or tail side. What you will do is to influence your chosen side so that it will come up with every toss or flip of the coin. Finally, you have to influence the said coin as you flip it 100 times. 
Now, in theory, when you flip a coin 100 times, then the final outcome should be 50 heads and 50 tails, or somewhere close to it. But, if you can apply micro TK, then it should show a significant difference, like 70 head side and 30 tail side, if head is your chosen side. 
So, how exactly do you do this? How should you apply micro TK? Well, the best way to do it is with your mind, and that is by using your will and visualization. The steps are as follows:
Relax. Telekinesis is more effective when you are relaxed. Realize that you are not forcing something to happen. Rather, you are making or letting it happen. Now, let us assume that your chosen side is the head side. As you flip or toss the coin, visualize in your mind that it falls with head side up. As you do this, exercise a strong will, as if commanding the coin to do as you will. 
Here is another technique that you can use:
Hold the coin in your hand. Now, just stare at it and focus on it. Be one with it as you try to be one with the flame. Just focus on it until it feels as if it has become a part of you. Now, once you feel that you 
 are in control of it. Just use your willpower to influence it and make it give you the outcome that you want. As you flip the coin, feel that the coin is a part of you and just make it land the way you want it. 
There is really no secret to this technique. It is all about becoming one with the coin and controlling it to make it do your will. Do not identify the coin as a separate object. Rather, you ought to feel as if you were the coin or that it is at least a part of you, like your arm or elbow. Be one with the coin. You are the coin. 
This is just an example of how micro TK can be used. If you reach a point where it becomes easy for you to control the outcome of a coin flip, you can try other things, such as a shuffled deck of cards or a dice. If you are using a shuffled deck of cards, an exercise that you can try is to force a color. For example, think of a color (red or black) as you shuffle the deck of cards. The top card of the shuffled deck of cards should be the chosen color. Feel free to device your own way to practice micro TK. Once you acquire and develop this ability, you can use it for many purposes. In fact, there are those who claim that this can be used to influence the odds in the casino or even the lottery. You might be surprised, but there are real-life lottery winners who are psychics and spiritual practitioners. Take note, however, that psychic abilities are not really meant to make you rich. Instead, you should use them to help other people and grow more spiritually. Never lose the real purpose for practicing these things, and always cling to what is good. 
Macro TK
Macro TK is exactly what most people understand when they encounter the word, telekinesis, and this is actually moving objects with your mind, such as moving a coin, ring, or even heavy objects like a television or a car. You might be wondering, is this really possible? Well, this might surprise you, but the answer is a resounding yes. You see, there is no limit to the power of your mind except the one that you have made against it. The following exercise will help you practice and experience macro TK:
Place a light object in a table in front of you. Now, focus on this object. Be one with it. Focus on it to such an extent that you see nothing but the object. Create a tunnel in your mind that connects you to the object and let nothing else exist but this. Feel and be one 
 with the object. Now, in your mind's eye, see your astral hand reaching out and pushing the said object. 
Did it move? Another way to do this is to simply use your willpower and just be one with the object as you make it move with your will. Now, most people may require the use of visualization. You can try both ways and see which one works best for you. Again, do not be discouraged if nothing happens on your first few attempts. Just keep on practicing. 
Here is another exercise that you might want to try. This can help you to levitate something, which is also a part of macro TK. The steps are as follows:
Place a light object, preferably a feather, on your hands. Keep your hands in front of you with the palms facing upward. Feel the object resting on your palms. Feel how light it is. Now, we will use energy to levitate this object, and we will draw energy by using this chant: light as air, light as a feather. Keep chanting it for a few minutes as you connect to the object and will it levitate. 
Instead of using a feather, you can also use aluminum foil. The aluminum foil might not levitate, but it will most probably move on your hand.
Take note that telekinesis, especially macro TK is considered an advanced psychic ability, so do not expect to be able to do these exercises immediately without spending enough practice. Still, this ability is something that is worth learning. Once again, do not allow it to make you lose your sight on what is truly important in your spiritual life. Remember that although acquiring psychic powers can be nice and interesting, it is not the end of spirituality.
Hydrokinesis
Hydrokinesis refers to the ability to control water. You might see some videos on this on YouTube. Unfortunately, many of those people who promote themselves on such sites are only looking for attention and their abilities seem sketchy or fake. So, the best way is still for you to try it out yourself. For this exercise, you will need a basin and a needle. The steps are as follows:
Fill the basin with water. Now, place the needle in the basin and let it float. Take note that hydrokinesis deals with water so you would 
 want to focus on the water. The needle is only there to show you if what you are doing is working. Now, visualize pushing the water with your energy. You might want to mimic the action with your hand as if you were pushing it with your hand, although you are actually doing so only with the power of your mind. Push the water to one side. The needle should respond and be pushed towards that side/corner. Focus on the water. Be one with it and push it. You can also visualize a wave in the water and use that wave to move the water. Just realized all throughout and connect with the element of water. 
Once you get good at this, you can take it a step further. Go to the sea or any body of water. Now, use your ability to manipulate the water. It is believed that once you master this technique, you can do wonders such as changing the course of a river or of the typhoon. You can actually be able to control water and direct its flow. However, just like any other interesting psychic ability, this also requires practice. 
Clairsentience
Clairsentience, also known as clear-eyed information, is the ability to feel the subtle energy. If clairvoyance is more about the sense of sight, then clairsentience deals with feelings. This is not as hard as you might think. In fact, you probably have a good sense of clairsentience, and you are simply not aware of it. A common example of this is having a bad feeling and then something undesirable happens, such as an accident. Or, you might feel a positive energy only to realize that an angel just passed by. This is more about feeling, not just energy but also the quality of energy. So, how do you develop or practice this ability? Well, just keep on feeling energy. The best way to do this is to develop your empathic ability. You can use this exercise:
Make sure that you are in a public place, or anywhere where there are people around you. Now, look around you and try to find someone whom you feel is a nice person. You do not have to be logical about this, but let your intuition decide for you. Now, just focus discreetly on this person. Feel your heart chakra. Remember that your heart chakra is the center of emotions and universal love and oneness. Now, see and feel a ray of light shoot off from your 
 heart chakra and let it connect with the heart chakra of the chosen person. This will serve as your link and connection to the person. The next step is to simply clear your mind. You should be able to receive impressions or thought and ideas, even emotions, from the person. 
You are not limited to feeling only the energy of people, but you can also use your ability to sense the energy of a place. If you do not like to travel, you can even conjure the place in your mind's eye and try to feel it from there. Once again, just like the other skills, this one also takes practice. The key here is to get used to using your feelings to sense the subtle energy around you. The more that you practice this, the more sensitive you will be to the subtle energy. 
Divination
The practice of divination is very common to those who are into spirituality. A common tool that is used by dowsers is the tarot cards. Now, this book will not define every tarot card as that can be a lot. Instead, you will learn how to use any kind of tarot decks. The way to do this is by using your intuition. So, how do you do this? Well, the truth is that all tarot cards communicate a message that you can decipher. Instead of giving each card a meaning that the manufacturer has provided, you can also come up with your own personal meaning. The way to do this is by using your intuition. 
Now, there are no hard and fast rules on how to do this. You will want to pick a card or make a spread. Once you have the cards that you need to interpret, just relax and clear your mind and allow your intuition to take full reign. Look at the card and focus on it. How does it make you feel? Do you sense any ideas or emotions being evoked by the card? Take as much time as you can to understand the card. With enough practice, you will get good at this and be able to read any tarot cards. You should realize that tarot cards are just tools. They do not form rules or regulations. Instead, you use them to communicate to you a message. It would be impractical to memorize all the meanings of all the tarot cards, especially now that there are countless tarot cards out there. 
Another method of divination is by using a pendulum. In this case, you will have to learn the art known as dowsing. Okay, what is a pendulum? A pendulum refers to any object that is suspended on a 
 string or chain. Before we proceed with the instructions, you first need to acquire your dowsing tool, a pendulum. Now, many occult shops sell a pendulum. However, if you are just starting out, you can simply create your own pendulum. All you need is a string or thread, and a needle, the ones used for sewing clothes would be enough. Simply cut the thread to your desired length, about a meter would be enough for a pendulum. Next, tie one end to a needle. You can now use it as a pendulum.







Chapter 7: 
 Psychic Awarenes
 s
Psychic awareness is defined as "the understanding of human consciousness and the full potential of the mind when it is applied to everyday life". Psychic awareness is known to be the understanding of the silent Spirit that lies within us as well as our mind's power. This psychic awareness provides us with access to our subconscious mind, giving us the power to control the various internal energies that influence our health, wellness, and relationships with other people.
There are ways to not only develop but also strengthen your psychic awareness. The power of psychic awareness can then be reapplied to various different areas of our lives. A good way to think of psychic awareness is to think of your brain like a computer. When a computer is unplugged, it can still be used but its uses are greatly limited. When a computer is connected to the internet, however, it has a virtually never-ending list of functions it may perform. When you awaken your Third Eye, it is almost as if you are connecting your brain to the universe's spiritual forces (you then unlock endless possibilities and potential by utilization of your psychic awareness).
We have all heard the science-based rumor that humans only utilize roughly ten percent of our brain's grey matter. Could it be possible that the other untouched 90% deals greatly with psychic awareness? Perhaps through psychic awareness strengthening exercises, and those utilized to achieve Third Eye awakening, we can be able to access and make use of the remaining 90% of our brains.
Tips to Develop and Strengthen Your Psychic Awareness
1) Pray- Whatever higher power you believe in, whatever religion you practice, ask that higher power to help you have the ability to unlock greater psychic awareness.
2) Meditate- Through meditation, we are able to disconnect from life's general noise and instead form a connection to a deeper awareness of the environment around us as well as our inner selves. When you let go of the preoccupying stressful thoughts you will be able to more easily embrace your mind's natural sense of intuition.
3) Journal- Journaling is a great tool that can help make yourself aware of the external stressors in your life that usually cloud your mind the most. Once you are able to acknowledge these stress factors you can learn when to let go so you may progress moving forward with your Third Eye awakening exercises.







Chapter 8: Exercises for Awakening Your Inner Spirit
Getting your body moving is one of the best ways to clear your pineal gland and get in touch with your inner spirit. We know that when we exercise, our muscles expand and contract, creating physical movement. What you may not realize is that physical exercise also moves energy around the body. The increase in this energy flow helps you connect your mind and body, as well as your mind and inner spirit.
Any type of physical activity will do. Starting a regular routine consisting of cardiovascular activity like walking or running will get the blood pumping and will keep your heart healthy. Adding weight training will improve strength, preserve bone mass and burn more energy. Any type of activity will raise your body temperature, get your energy flowing and will clear a blocked pineal gland.
There are exercises that focus more on the mind and spirit connection, which may fit better into your overall goals. Practicing yoga is a great place to start. This exercise combines the benefits of strength training and stretching with relaxation and meditation.
If you are not familiar with yoga, it is a guided practice in which specific yoga 'poses' are completed. The movement is generally slow, and the poses are meant to work your muscles and stretch your tendons in a way that would not normally be possible in daily life. You may feel muscles and tendons you didn't know existed after your first class.
Practicing yoga should not be an intimidating task. Although you may be surrounded with other people in a formal class, the idea is to only compete with yourself. Your strength and flexibility will improve with practice, and so you are only trying to improve upon yourself, not compare yourself with others. It is not a game or a competition.
There are many different styles of yoga, ranging from a more regimented class, like Bikram, which uses the same set and combination of poses. Bikram is also often done in a hot room, more than one hundred degrees to add a more cardiovascular component to the practice. This will definitely be too intense for a beginner, but 
 for a seasoned yogi, provides increased flexibility and more spiritual connection. The heat requires the mind to focus exclusively on regulating heart rate and maintaining temperature. With the mind preoccupied on that, it becomes a lot easier to enter a meditative state.
If you are practicing on your own, there are a number of poses to include that will help engage your third eye specifically. Any pose that rests your forehead is benefitting the pineal gland. Mountain pose, in which you bend and rest your forehead on your knees is a great one, although it may take a bit of time to increase your flexibility to this level. Staff pose is similar but a little easier from a seated position. Dolphin pose, a modification of downward dog, is another beginner-level pose. Child's pose is perhaps the easiest of all. The forehead and third eye become grounded to the floor.
More classical meditative yoga is also available, in which the focus is more on the breathing process rather than the physical aspect. Either way, you will be moving your body, increasing energy flow, relaxing and meditating. Yoga is great for helping connect all of your entities, physical, emotional and spiritual. Regular yoga practice will strengthen the body between all three.
Yoga can certainly be a challenge for people who don't move around easily. Although regular practice will improve range of motion, starting with a different type of exercise may be helpful. Practicing Tai Chi is another exercise that has the same meditative properties, but the methods are a bit different.
Tai Chi, although it originated as a form of martial arts, focuses on different poses as well. Instead of being intense and effective for defense, it is a choreographed, graceful movement, constantly flowing from the body. It also focuses on breathing, creating a meditative practice along with the physical exercise. Each pose flows flawlessly into another, with no static pauses, unlike yoga.
Tai Chi is low impact and therefore is open to a greater variety of people. It does not include weight training and does not put a great deal of stress on the cardiovascular system, unlike running or jogging. It is a great practice if you are just beginning an exercise routine. Regular practice has been shown to increase aerobic stamina, increase energy, reduce stress and increased muscle tone.
These benefits are achieved with regular practice, just as with any exercise routine. It is important to maintain a routine to truly feel an improvement in your body and mind. If you are new to Tai Chi, finding a beginners' class is your best bet. Learning the fluidity of the movement takes a bit of practice, but once you get the hang of it, the movement will flow, and you will see more of the meditative benefits.
Regular exercise is mostly about reducing stress when it comes to your third eye. The movement of energy releases tension and increases flow during times of rest. When you are stressed, your body produces stress hormones like cortisol and adrenaline. The goal of these hormones is to raise your heart rate and stimulate muscles to physically flee from danger. This response dates back to the very existence of humans when there was more incidence of physical peril.
These days, our stress comes from late meetings, work schedules and the like. We are not expending the energy given by those hormones, and it builds up, blocking flow within the energy system. Exercise helps relieve some of that tension so that we may be more relaxed overall.
No matter what exercise you decide on, choose something to do regularly that you enjoy. The true benefits of exercise come when you like what you are doing, and you are not just going through the motions. Switch up your exercise routine to keep it interesting, and don't forget to take rest days when your body is feeling fatigued.







Chapter 9: Pineal Gland Activation and Chakra
 s

Activation of the Pineal Gland Through Guided Meditation (10-15 Minutes)

  
The pineal gland is the physical location of the Ajna chakra. 
This small pine shaped gland is placed in the middle of the brain. 
It controls your sleep cycle, sexual maturation, and many other vital hormones. It produces the DMT, the brain's natural psychedelic drug. It helps us in connecting with our spirituality.  
Stimulating this small gland will help you in awakening you spiritually. It will help you in interacting with your divine energies. It will help you in seeing through life.  
Start with the breathing exercise. 
Inhale slowly, take the fresh air deep into your gut. Gather your worries, tensions, and thoughts. Now exhale slowly. Release all your worries and tension with the air.  
Clear your mind. Racing thoughts are a distraction. You need peace and calm. Soothe your senses. Clear your mind.  
Once again, inhale slowly, take the fresh air deep into your gut. Gather your worries, tensions, and thoughts. Now exhale slowly. Release all your worries and tension with the air.  
Clear the waste from your mind. Nothing is important at this very moment. You are the prime source of energy. You are embarking on a journey to enlightenment. Start with peace of mind. Tranquility must prevail everywhere.  
One more time, inhale slowly, take the fresh air deep into your gut. Gather your worries, tensions, and thoughts. Now exhale slowly. Release all your worries and tension with the air.    
Close your eyes and focus. 
Focus on the center of your brain. The pineal gland is located here. 
 Establish contact with it. Let it know that you want to connect. 
It is very powerful. It is the source of immense power. It is the seat of the soul. The place of the Ajna chakra.  
It has spiritual powers. It will help in your unification with the universe. You will become a part of the great network. You do not need an external source. You are the source.  
Breathe into the pineal gland. Fill it with divine power. Energize it. You can charge and activate it.  
You will feel some throbbing sensation. It is the pineal gland activating.  
Focus on it. Let it know that you want to connect with it. You want to become one with your greater self. The eternal light inside you.  
Breathe deeply. You want to amalgamate with this divine light. You want to become one with it. Leave all the negative energies behind. Move towards the source of pure and pious energy. The unblemished aura.  
It will fill you. It will enlighten you. It will awaken you. Seek and you will find.  
Expunge the pollution out of your system. You will not carry anything this point forward. There is no place for worldly feelings. Love, hate, and animosities become meaningless. They create Karma. You are a forgiving soul.  
Move ahead. As one with the power. Focus deep. Breathe Deeper.  
It is a long journey. Keep moving.  
You will feel immense calm. Light all around you. It isn't hot. It is soothing. This is the light of the soul. Your soul is emanating radiance. Absorb it. It is all for you. Relish it. 
Enjoy the moment. It is blissful. It is the moment. You have always desired it. 
Now, take a deep breath. Inhale slowly, take the fresh air deep into your gut. Wait for a few moments. Now exhale slowly.  
Again, take a deep breath. Inhale slowly, take the fresh air deep into your gut. Wait for a few moments. Exhale.  
Rub your palms vigorously. Make them warm. Cover your eyes with them. Keep them covered for a moment. 
Now open your eyes very slowly. Do not rush. Loosen your body.  Do not get up immediately. 
Ponder over your achievements in the process.
Chakras Meaning

Another aspect of spiritual awakening is recognizing and working with the chakra system. Chakras are centers where energy collects throughout the body. They are generally centered around major organ systems, and manipulating the energy and clearing blockages of energy in these areas can help bring more balance to your life and alleviate symptoms associated with a specific chakra. 
The chakra system was originally developed in India, centuries ago, and it still plays a major role in Eastern medicine today. Chakras are all about energy balance. Just like your spine, the alignment of your chakras must be just right, or there will be a pain. Learning to pinpoint when a chakra point is out of alignment is the key to fixing it. The body and mind are in a constant state of finding balance. Energy flows and changes, and it is necessary to take stock of your needs, both physical and emotional, as it relates to your chakras, on the regular. 

Types of Chakras  

  
There are seven major chakras in total, all aligned along the centerline of the body. They are as follows: 

Root Chakra:
 This energy point is located at the base of the spine, at the tailbone. It is called the root chakra because it is meant to be the energy that grounds you. As you sit on the floor, this chakra is directly in line with the energy of the earth, literally grounding you to it. On a spiritual level, this energy is what keeps you humble and 
 centered in everyday life. It is what gives you purpose, and continually reminds you of your purpose. 
A misaligned root chakra can have you feeling as if you are not grounded, unstable. It can manifest itself as having money issues, insecurity finding housing, or a place to call your own. Energy imbalance in this area may lead to trouble securing food or feeling as if you are satisfied. It is associated with the color red. 
An imbalance may manifest itself as stiffness in the legs, knee issues, sciatica, a weak immune system, and eating disorders.  

Sacral Chakra:
 This chakra gives us the ability to interact and accept others. It is the energy that drives exploration and new experiences. It is located just above the root chakra, about two inches below the navel. Energy from this chakra drives passion and sexual desire, pleasure, and abundance. 
A disrupted flow of energy in this chakra can cause a decrease in sex drive, little ability to connect with others on an emotional level and show interest or desire in anything. This chakra is commonly associated with the symptoms of malaise and disinterest during depression. Lack of energy here makes it difficult to show compassion for others and find common ground. It also makes you less able to accept inevitable change in life.  
Lack of energy here can manifest itself physically as urinary or sexual issues, kidney problems, and lower back pain. 

Solar Plexus Chakra:
 This concentration of energy is centered in the upper abdomen, near the stomach. It is the driving force for our self-confidence and self-esteem. Without this energy, we do not dare to follow through with our goals and aspirations. Without it, we are meek and have no confidence in our capability of success.  
Like our pineal gland, the solar plexus helps guide and drive life forward. You may recognize its power as that itch to do something new, to try new things and become more successful. This power waxes and wanes as the chakra moves in and out of alignment. It is associated with the color yellow. 
Energy drops may manifest with general fatigue, digestive issues, and gallbladder or pancreas issues, including diabetes.  

Heart Chakra
 : It's no surprise that this mass of energy is located on the spine right next to the heart. It is responsible for joy, love and peace. Our heart organ often gets the credit for love, but it is a beaming ray of energy from our heart chakra that fills our chest cavity with feelings of excitement and warmth.  
Strengthening this chakra increases our ability and capacity to love, and at what magnitude. It defines the relationships we have and keep. It is associated with the color green, not red, as you might expect! 
Issues with respiratory infections, asthma, heart disease and circulatory issues can be a physical manifestation of low energy in the heart chakra.  

Throat Chakra:
 This little gem is centered right in the center of our throat. It is responsible for our ability for good communication. When in good alignment, this chakra gives us the energy to articulate our ideas and needs in a way that others can easily understand. 
When out of alignment, it may be difficult to work with others and get your point across. We all have moments when it seems like no matter how well you explain something, people don't understand you. Not enough energy is available to formulate your words and emotions in such a way that makes an impact on others.  
Issues with the thyroid, laryngitis, ear infections, and shoulder or neck pain are a good indicator that your throat chakra is out of alignment.  

Third Eye Chakra
 : Yes, it has its own chakra! It is no wonder that a great mass of energy is centered right where the third eye is located, just above the eyes in the center of your forehead. This chakra is responsible for your intuition and decision-making skills. 
You may have felt a decrease in this chakra's energy before, manifested as an inability to make a decision. Generally, wishy-washy people lack energy in this chakra, as their inner self is unable to guide their decisions, leaving them hanging, wondering what to do. Realigning this chakra invites wisdom and confidence that you are making educated decisions. 
Chronic headaches, blurry vision, and hormonal imbalance, can all be signs of a third eye energy deficiency. We also cannot forget about depression and anxiety as possible symptoms.  

Crown Chakra:
 Last, but not least, the crown chakra represents our ability to be connected spiritually. It is located at the very top of the skull. It represents our ability to see the beauty in the world and have joy within us. As you sit in a seated position, you are rooted in your root chakra, and your spine stands lengthened with your crown chakra pointed straight up to the heavens.  
In meditation, this chakra will attract and accept energy in through your head and radiate it throughout your body. Lacking energy in this area means you will find little joy in your surroundings and the rest of your chakras will suffer from lack of energy as well.  
Sensitivity to light and sound, as well as depression and the inability 
 to concentrate or learn, are good indications of a problem with your crown chakra. 
Knowing the spiritual functions of each chakra makes it easier to pinpoint when anyone is out of alignment. Our bodies and spirits are in a constant state of fluctuation, so at any given time, any chakra may not be functioning properly, even on a day to day basis. It is important to recognize these subtle changes so that adjustments can be made to realign the energy balance. 
If one chakra is out of alignment for a long time, it begins to show. For example, if your root chakra is out of whack, you may notice that you lose your ability to control spending, pay bills and keep a secure home. There just isn't enough energy to focus on these things. Over time, the problems mount, creating stress. Aligning this chakra at subtle hints of a problem can help avoid things like financial ruin, loss of relationships or declines in health.  
The imbalance of one chakra also causes the overcompensation of others, to try and balance themselves. This can manifest in several ways, depending on which is acting up. You may be doing very well in one aspect of life, but completely failing in another, something many of us recognize. The goal is to balance all energies, so we are strong and successful in all areas of life.  
Sixth Sense - Developing Psychic Awarenes
 s
Have you ever had a feeling about something and you just know what others might not feel, or see? Have you ever heard the thoughts of another, but second-guessed that you did? Have you had a dream before that come true days later? Do you ever feel the presence of things that are not of the earthly realm? This is just scratching the surface of some of the things that begin to happen when you awaken your psychic awareness. 
As part of Kundalini rising and the process of clearing and releasing blockages and negativity from your subtle body, you shift your perception of reality to the extent that you are able to crack open your latent abilities to receive input from other dimensions. This ability isn't reserved for a select few or passed down genetically through generations, although that has been known to happen. This power to feel beyond the physical realm exists in us all and can be nurtured and grown into everyday use and understanding. 
Many people have fear about this level of input because it can feel uncomfortable or vulnerable to tap into the unknown, into things that on the Earth plane we call magic, witchcraft, or superstition. Really, it's truly available to anyone to use this ability. When we are locked in our sleeping state (pre-kundalini rising), we cannot fathom the possibilities of such an existence, but as we allow our awakening to progress fully and reach the state of higher consciousness, we can open the brow and crown chakras to receive and accept our abilities as psychics. 
These abilities can manifest in a variety of ways and have been reported as some of the side effects of the awakening process.








Chapter 10: How to Maintain the Health of Your Third Eye Over Time
 ?

Steps to Heal Your Third Eye Chakra 
Healing your third eye chakra - or any chakra for that matter - is a process. It happens over a gradual succession of healing sessions, and requires your full dedication in order to be considered successful. There are lots of different ways to heal a blocked chakra, but experts often recommend using a combination of methods in order to address an obstruction or poor vibrations. 
Before you get started on the actual healing process, it's important that you prepare yourself in order to get the most out of the experience. Being of sound mind, body, and spirit during the healing can help maximize the benefits and remove any barriers that might keep you from experiencing the full power of spiritual healing. 
How to Maximize Your Healing
There are certain factors that act as hindrances towards optimal healing. These are often within our control. Aiming to resolve and eliminate them before we begin any healing methods should improve the outcomes of our practice. 
Prepare Your Mind
If this is your first time performing spiritual healing, then you might find yourself questioning the process from start to finish. 
"Am I doing this right?" 
"Is this the proper execution?" 
"I feel silly."
"This probably isn't working." 
Stop. These negative thoughts and apprehensions can have an effect on your healing. Your mind is a powerful aspect of your being, and allowing yourself to think these thoughts can create a barrier that prevents positive energy from taking full effect. That's because thinking along these lines is in itself negative energy which works against any positive resonance that might be trying to move into 
 your system. 
Before you begin the healing process, try to cleanse your mind. Assure yourself of the benefits of what you're doing and adapt an affirmation to help you absorb the positivity that's coming your way. So instead of telling yourself that it might not be working, focus on the advantages that you've been promised. An example of an affirmation you might want to try can be, "I surrender my negative energy and claim full healing through the powers of the universe." 
You can repeat your affirmation to yourself as you go through the healing, especially if you feel that those negative thoughts and apprehensions might be creeping back into your psyche. 
Prepare Your Environment
Did you ever notice how you might feel particularly stressed in a space that's cluttered or dirty? Regardless of our unique standards when it comes to cleanliness and orderliness, certain environmental conditions can cause significant distress, making us feel out of sorts, anxious, and unhappy. 
In the same way, you shouldn't attempt any sort of healing in a space that doesn't resonate with your soul. Dirty, cluttered rooms can vibrate negative energy, causing any positive resonance from being fully absorbed. That's why it's important to make sure you've fully prepared a space to help maximize your healing. 
What are the factors that make up a prepared environment?
A comfortable place to sit or to lie down, depending on the healing method you've chosen. Always seek a set-up that lets you assume straight posture as this can help improve the flow of energy. 
If you're sitting, it's always best to ditch the chair and sit on the floor instead. Lay down a clean yoga mat or a pillow and make sure you can sit up straight. For methods that require you to lie down, always opt for a slight recline at around 30-45 degrees. 
Dim lights help draw attention away from what's seen and improve your ability to zone in on your mentality. Darkness also helps soothe the body, allowing a calmer disposition that's ideal for healing. Dim down the lights just enough for you to make out the items inside a space, but not enough to be engulfed in complete darkness. 
Music can be a great way to maintain focus because complete silence - contrary to popular belief - can actually turn into a distraction and may keep your mind from fully entering the meditative state. That's because your mind needs constant external stimulation, which is why silence might make you feel uneasy or restless. 
Instead of playing traditional music though, you may want to experiment with other sounds. Calm chiming sounds are often a great choice for beginners. There are also audio files of natural sounds that you can use, such as the sounds of flowing water and wind rustling through trees. 
Involving your sense of smell can also help improve the healing process. Certain fragrances - especially those from essential oils - can positively impact the brain and trigger the release of chemicals in the brain to achieve a happier, more proactive mentality. 
Some of the best essential oils for meditation and chakra healing include frankincense, lavender, peppermint, sandalwood, and ylang-ylang. Diffuse a small amount using an essential oil diffuser and allow the scent to completely engulf your space before you begin the process. 
Essentially, a prepared environment for healing is a space that engages all of your senses. Because we're all different, our preferences may have an effect on what we feel to be the best environment for chakra healing. However, by utilizing these tips, you should be able to come up with the optimal set-up so you can achieve the most with each session. 
Prepare Your Body
Stimulation coming from your body can impact your healing session negatively. For instance, the urge to relieve yourself can interfere with your thoughts, distracting you from your goal. Hunger, sleepiness, and discomfort are all potential interferences that can cut your healing short. 
Make sure your body is prepared for the process before you begin. Relieve yourself, take a shower, and make sure you've eaten enough food to satiate your hunger. Stay hydrated and keep a cup of water close to you to quench your thirst should it become an issue during the healing. 
In terms of comfort, the way you prepare your environment will play a major role. Always make sure to try out your set-up before you engage in the process to identify any possible noxious stimuli that could distract you. It also helps to schedule your session for after you wake up in the morning or from a nap so you don't end up feeling too sleep to successfully heal your chakra. 
Tools and Resources for Healing the Third Eye
Did you know that each chakra corresponds to unique objects and substances in our environment? This happens because each unique item and material resonates with a specific energy signature that may vibrate more closely to certain energy centers. Focusing on using the items, tools, and resources that resonate with your third eye can help make healing much more beneficial. 
Food for the Third Eye
Achieving a balance of the third eye may require that you indulge in foods that exhibit a purple hue. Always focus on naturally colored foods, and not choices that might be purple by use of food coloring or artificial ingredients. 
Here are some foods that might be able to resonate best with your third eye: 
Eggplants
Grapes
Blackberries or mulberries
Purple kale
Purple cabbage
Onions
Purple yams
Similarly, there are other non-purple food choices that might be beneficial for third eye healing as well. These include natural cacao and foods rich in omega-3. These foods are said to boost brain power, allowing them to tap into the third eye to achieve balance and reveal this chakra's unique powers. 
Aside from incorporating these ingredients into your daily diet, you 
 may want to indulge in a pre-healing snack that uses one or more of these ingredients. This can help fuel the third eye to make it more responsive to your healing techniques. 
Crystals for the Third Eye
There are over a thousand different kinds of crystals, and each one offers unique benefits for the mystic healer. But if you were hoping to specifically address your third eye, then you may want to consider investing in stones that are known to help address the Ajna chakra. 
These include:
Amethyst
Angelite
Azurite
Fluorite
Iolite
Labradorite
Moonstone
Crystals can be used for a variety of healing techniques, including wearing, placing, swinging, and grids. Using these crystals for any one of these techniques and endowing them with the right intention to address the third eye can be especially beneficial. 
Other Tools to Heal the Third Eye
The third eye chakra uses the element of light. This energy center casts light on dark areas of the mind to help you see ideas, thoughts, emotions, and circumstances through new 'eyes'. By illuminating these concepts with its spiritual rays of light, your third eye gives you perspectives anew, allowing you greater intuition, empathy, and intellect. 
That said, you should know that the third eye responds strongly to natural sources of light. Sunlight and moonlight are both powerful tools that you can leverage to help your third eye resonate with the right vibrations. It also helps to stargaze, allowing you to absorb the subtle energy of distant sources of powerful light around us. 
Remember that the chakras are not isolated energy centers, but interconnected ganglion of vibrations. Energy passes from chakra to chakra, so a disturbance in the resonance of one chakra can have an impact on others. In the case of the third eye, any issues you may experience relative to this 6th chakra might actually be the result of an obstruction in another chakra - especially the root chakra. 
Establishing a groundedness and security through your root chakra can help resolve a variety of problems that you might be experiencing elsewhere. If you find that you have an obstruction in your root chakra, address that before anything else. It might be causing the rest of the spiritual, physical, emotional, and mental disturbances you're feeling. 
Finally, the third eye chakra is one of the most creative energy centers in your system. The more you stimulate creativity, the more your third eye becomes enriched with positive vibrations. Find a creative activity that resonates with your mind and soul - like painting, sculpting, or sketching. Some people enjoy writing, singing, and playing an instrument, which are all suitable channels for creative expression. 
Establishing a Healing Regimen
Our chakras can become routinely blocked because we're never completely free from the effects of negative vibrations. An unhappy coworker, stressful conditions at home, school, or work, problems in our relationships, poor food choices, environmental noise, and everything in between - all of these stressors can impose negative resonance on our chakras. 
So, it's important to make sure you heal your third eye regularly, even if you don't sense too significant of a blockage. Here's a sample routine you can implement in your lifestyle to address any issues with the spinning movement of your third eye: 
Incorporate third eye enriching foods into at least one meal every day. 
Create an energy grid an bestow an intention for third eye health. Keep it active for at least 1 week every month. 
Wear a third eye crystal like amethyst as an amulet daily. You can also keep a small tumbled stone in your pocket to grasp and hold if 
 you feel the need to fight off negative energies. 
Once a month, meditate on your spiritual energy. If you sense any factors that might be hindering your third eye from being fully active, sever that energy cord. 
Try to work in at least 1 hour of creative work 2 days a week. You can mix up your technique by interchanging activities to keep your interest and creative energy up. 
Increasing the Efficiency of Your 3rd Eye through Clairvoyance
What would you say clairvoyance is? Well, according to the plain English meaning it is that ability to perceive things in an extraordinary way; having a peep into the future which is not equivalent to wishing - rather, some sensory feel of the reality to come. 
With reference to the power of the third eye, you are a clairvoyant when you can see something beforehand - meaning a real view of some future happening; see something happening in real time even when you are not close enough to apply your five common senses; and even visualizing something that happened sometime in the past even when you were not privy to it. 
Now, have we just said that a clairvoyant can tell the reality pertaining to the past; now; and the future without hearing, seeing, touching, smelling or even feeling? Right! And you may be thinking - those must be the queer looking ladies whose appointments are shrouded in mystery and secrecy; whose fees you pay through the nose. But no - not always... Whereas clairvoyance is a unique practice, it is not because it is a preserve of a few. And clairvoyants need not look weird, scary or funny. Of course, I'll spice it a little bit with some aura of mystery if I'm charging you the services; just to play on your psychology, but really, clairvoyance is something you can also learn, practice and master.
Let us try and understand how the powers of a clairvoyant manifest:
Having a dream that is vivid and then whatever was in the dream comes to pass.
Misplacing something you had and then while you are just mum a mental picture of the place you put the thing flashes through your 
 mind - and the thing happened to be right where your mental image took you.
You could be driving and then you mentally see the actual car you are following turning, say, to the right; and in a minute or so, it literally does so.
You see someone's image mentally - what sometimes we mistake for 'thinking' about someone; and sometime later in the day that same person gets in touch with you, either in person or via phone or even mail. 
Supposing you could do that on all important matters! Yet it is possible for you to enhance the natural power of clairvoyance that you may currently have in your own small way, and be able to visualize things in a more mentally intense manner. 
Here are some steps you can take in enhancing your power of clairvoyance:
Abandon your fears
Have you been in a situation where you were so scared of something or someone and had to laugh about it later when you got accustomed to them? I'm imagining being born and brought up on an island where tortoises and turtles were about the only animals you saw. Then one day someone flew you out to the tropics where you saw herds of 4 - 5 meter tall giraffes. You would think it was not real but a figment of your imagination!
That is the same thing that happens particularly when you are young and you get clairvoyant experiences. If they are scary compared to your situation in real life, you chuck it aside so you will not have to deal with the truth. 
Such is the scenario when a kid has a clairvoyant experience of her or his parents parting ways in a divorce
A child also shuts out clairvoyant experiences if parents or other adults attribute narrations of such experiences as evil
A child can also shut out such clairvoyant experiences when mature people fail to believe them and accuse them of lying or having an exaggerated imagination
So what is the reality for the child? The truth is that a child may be 
 born with the third eye clearly open and with clairvoyant abilities very strong, and may, therefore, be seeing his or her spiritual guides very vividly and having clairvoyant experiences with clarity. 
How, then, do you rid yourself of this limiting fear?
You can release the fear that inhibits your ability to perceive things as per your natural abilities by affirming your belief in yourself. 
Get a place to sit and make yourself comfortable
While relaxed, take two or even three long, deep breaths
As you do the inhaling and exhaling, say something like this: I'm prepared to let go of all the fear that I have of seeing into the future.
Be sincere in your questioning
Sometimes you want to use your clairvoyant abilities in a conscious way and so you pose a question to your inner self - be genuine and to the point. It is the only way you are going to receive an answer that is accurate and helpful to you. In short, the reason you are applying your clairvoyance is that you have genuine curiosity and desires. Express them as you feel them. 
If, for instance, you are longing to find a romantic partner at a particular party, design your question as precisely as you can, like: 
Shall I meet a romantic partner at the party tonight? Or: 
Shall I get involved with someone romantically tonight?
The point is to avoid being vague like:
I'm I likely to meet someone?
Think about it this way. If you ask vaguely and get the answer in the affirmative, you could end up meeting a long lost relative or a very interesting comic. Yes! In both cases you will have met someone. But is it the kind of person you are longing for? No. So be to the point and give details as close as you can; otherwise you may end up doubting your clairvoyance while it is your questioning technique that is wanting.
Further Enhancement of Your 3rd Eye through Clairvoyance
Do you recall why you are so interested in applying your clairvoyance? It is because you are curious about something you 
 deem important, like the possibility of you linking up with a romantic partner. So, this is what you do to help get clear answers:
Direct your total focus on your third eye
Sit down and relax
Direct your focus on your 6th chakra
Sixth.Yes - that chakra that resides just between your eyes and slightly above; between your eyebrows, to be precise. That one is in charge of your high level intuition. That is the position of your third eye, which experts call Ajna, and which is known to discharge sharp sensory messages that are clear and telling. As usual, you are taking deep breaths as you concentrate on your third eye - three ins and outs will suffice. 
What you are essentially working on is getting this intense energy center that is your 6th chakra to activate your clairvoyance, and hence begin sending psychic images in response to your questions. 
And will you get them?
Well, first ascertain that you can see some oval shape (eyelike) at the place where the chakra is supposed to be. 
Now, is that eyelike shape closed?
Or is it partially open?
Is it clearly open?
The point is you want that eyelike shape clearly open because that is your third eye, the facilitator of clairvoyance. In case it is not yet open, you need to repeat your affirmation that you are actually prepared to discard all your fears associated with psychic sight; that you are eager to see psychically. 
Do you know how you will tell that your third eye has finally opened up besides visualizing it on the oval shape?
You will suddenly enjoy a calming feeling of warm engulfing love. 
Take note of the pictures entering your mind
And how do I monitor those pictures, you may be wondering? This is what you need to look out for:
A picture lingering in your mind in singular - one vivid image
A picture lingering before your eyes in singular - again one unmistakable picture
A movie-like image shows within your mind; within your mental arena
A movie-like image shows before your eyes; beyond your mental arena
And what colors do these pictures come in?
These images do not come in pre-defined colors despite the fact that the third eye is linked to Color Purple or Indigo. 
They sometimes come in plain black and white
Other times the images come in a full range of colors
There are times that you see the images in form of cartoons
Other times you may even see an image in form of a distinct painting
Seek to enhance the brightness as well as the size of your psychic images
How do you do that? Simple: commanding affirmation! With conviction and belief you address your mental pictures in this manner:
My pictures, I direct you to grow in size as well as strength right away!
The idea is to communicate clearly:
Your unequivocal decision to venture into the realm of the psychic
Your undivided attention to the emerging images
Your strong intention to embrace those psychic images
And with that declaration, your pictures become more pronounced - larger; bolder; and even brighter - in a way that is relatively easy to decipher. We have said that this is going to work and it surely should, and you need to believe too that it will. 
But supposing there seems to be a hitch with the clarity of the images still not very helpful?
Please note that you will not be the first person to whose first attempt was not exactly yielding. 
Seek interpretation as well as clarification
What is the use of seeing an image if you cannot tell what it represents? Unless you can derive meaning from the pictures that you see in your mind, you will still remain as uninformed as that person with no interest in psychic powers - or even more confused. 
Therefore, address the powers in your spiritual world thus:
What is the meaning of these images?
And you can ask that mentally or even verbally, it does not matter. Have faith in your spiritual powers because your guides in the spiritual world are actually intent on helping you; they are normally very co-operative. 
Maintain your quiet concentration and you will be rewarded with clear answers in form of:
Feeling
Sound
Thought
Any of those three could be the form in which you get your response. 
If you really do not comprehend your answer as communicated, address your spiritual powers and request that you be sent the answers again in a form that you can easily understand.
Maintain your trust
It is just like in your normal day-to-day activities. How can you succeed if you are working with a system that you do not believe in; a system you hardly trust? Impossible! So, in these matters of clairvoyance, doubting the strength or credibility of the psychic system is sure self-sabotage. You must trust what you are working with - your psychic ability; your clairvoyance; your ability to get answers pertaining to your future. It is absolutely crucial that you believe and trust in the clairvoyant images that you receive too. That way, they are going to work as expected as there are no conflicting energies. 







Chapter 11: Common Mistakes People Make Trying to Activate the Third Eye
If there is something worse than not doing something, then it is doing it in the wrong way. The same is true for third eye activation. If you are trying to awaken your third eye and doing it incorrectly, then you are up for some pretty bad experiences. Third eye awakening is a powerful practice that must be done carefully and with great dedication.  
If you are looking for quick results or instant gratification, then you will be stepping in the wrong realm. Some people keep trying but never have any luck with their third eye activation. It isn't that the third eye is not present in them, it seems that they are improperly looking for something. Not understanding the signs or misinterpreting them can also lead to failure or desperation. 
The following are some of the mistakes people make while trying to activate their third eye. You must avoid them. 
Indulging in Misinformation
TV, media, and internet are great tools for spreading misinformation. They have a knack for making a mountain of a molehill. They can make you believe absurd things that may lead to desperation in the end. Before you begin your third eye activation, you must make yourself aware of the things you are going to encounter on your way. Do not expect too much or too little. Judging the gap always prevents falling in it. Do your homework properly before you embark on the journey of activating your third eye.
Lack of Trust
Trust is a very important factor when you go on any journey, especially the ones involving adventure. Third eye activation is an adventure trip like you have never taken. To experience it, you must have trust in yourself and your instincts. You must not distrust anything that you see or feel while you are trying to activate your third eye. You must also give proper importance to the changes you experience on the way. Remaining conscious of even the smallest of 
 events is very important.  
Lack of Purpose
People who lack a clear purpose for activating their third eye will face failures. Activating the third eye is not a walk in the park. You can't shake it off as you do with other things. It starts some irreversible processes. You must have a definite purpose for activating the third eye. Only then will you be able to judge the amount of success you have achieved in your pursuits. If you are not looking for something specific, you may not find anything at all. 
Lack of Technique
Following a proper technique is very important for activating the third eye. Third eye activation may look like an undefined path. The journey inside doesn't have a definite route, but using the right technique is very important or you can start feeling lost. Pick a technique that suits you the best, and please follow it carefully. Do not keep changing your methods or you may not achieve anything at all. Remain regular in your practice and do it with great devotion. People who take this lightly end up wasting their time. 
Trying too hard
Do not try too hard. Those who want quick success often start trying too hard in the beginning. It may lead to desperation or your mind will start cooking up false stories, and both will lead to failure. When trying to activate your third eye, focus on the technique and let things happen on their own. Do not try to force your mind to think in a particular way or imagine things. Overdependence on visualization will lead to the framing of false notions in your mind. You may start viewing things that you want to see without having achieved anything at all.  
Stop Looking for the Wrong Signs 

You must look for the right signs. Some so-called experts have attached some wrong notions with the third eye activation method. They have made people believe that third eye activation will only happen if they get specific signs. This is inaccurate. Look for the subtle changes taking place inside you. Trust your instincts and take a lead. Do not go by the wrong notions. Your experience with third eye awakening may be totally different than others. If you keep 
 looking for the experiences of others you may never feel satisfied. 
No Instant Results
Third eye activation is not similar to ordering anything on the internet. It doesn't happen instantaneously. Even after your third eye has awakened, you may not be able to see a significant change for a very long time. Honing your abilities takes much longer than that and requires a lot of practice. You must pay great attention to this aspect. 
Not Enough Practice
You will need to practice your skills for quite some time to have measurable results. Even if your third eye is active, it will not give you significant results if you fail to practice it regularly. You have to train your mind to look in the right direction. Your mind must learn to recognize the signs. It must learn to look at things with better insight. All this will only happen when you practice regularly. Make meditation a part of your schedule. Do not miss it or give excuses to yourself. By doing so, you'll only be bringing failure to your pursuit.  
Avoid Overpublicizing Your Efforts  

The journey to awaken your third eye is a personal quest. It is a long journey, and the ride is never smooth. You must avoid talking about it to your friends. Such discussions spark negative criticism and envy. You may start getting labeled or ridiculed, and it may lead to doubts. Keep it to yourself, and keep practicing. It is one of the best ways to preserve your positive energies and get better results. 







Conclusio
 n
In the beginning, many people want simple meditation techniques. Some types of meditation that are good for beginners are brain wave meditation, breathing meditation, or hypnotic meditation. The third eye (related to the sixth chakra) is a known property of the etheric body. It contains numerous psychic powers of higher consciousness, including clairvoyance and ESP. Recent research is increasingly converging on the possible connection between the third eye and the pineal gland, which is a unique part of the brain because it is not directly connected to either hemisphere. Subsequent studies have now provided conclusive evidence of the adverse effects of fluoride on the pineal gland. In the interest of developing human awareness, it is essential to nourish the pineal gland and prevent inorganic contaminants from irreversibly damaging this critical part of the brain.
Opening your heart is an indication of literally opening your physical heart to the frequency of real love, which is unconditional love. It is a self-love that is not based on ego needs, recognition, or worldly achievements. When you open your physical heart, you open your chakra heart, and that makes love flow through your brain, your body, and the whole world. It is an authentic life. Most people think they feel real love when they are in love or in a relationship. This may be the case for a few, but the majority of people assume anxiety, depression, cynicism, internal violence, and lack of self-compassion, so they really start from conditional love. When you give love to receive love, you are in a conditioned relationship.
The laws of attraction always direct your mind and your life towards wellbeing. This flow is blocked when you stop accepting things as they come. If you learn to accept good or bad things, you will find that all things lead to a better part of yourself. To expand your mind, you need to be more open to things. Being open to things can be different than you previously imagined. When you expand your mind, things that you would like to bring to yourself become sooner than that you pursue them. The majority of people have no clue how it works.
Meditation techniques could help you deal with today's life, which is 
 full of struggles and stress. If you choose to slow down, there is a good chance that it will be left behind. Most of us live a stressful life and are overloaded with work to keep up with others. Stress is the gateway to all mental and emotional complaints. Meditation is the best way to relieve stress and live a healthy and happy life. Meditation is traditionally done with the focus on objects like a candle or your breath. Through meditation, mind, and body relax, and you experience inner peace. The more concentrated you are, the better results you will get. Meditation helps develop your level of concentration. Many people among us believe that meditation is not for us and cannot work in our situation. Well, this is completely wrong, and the fact is that anyone can learn meditation easily, and if you practice it regularly, it will help you to know yourself better.

By
Spiritual Awakening Academy




