



- wraps -







RACE AND REALITY
A SEARCH FOR SOLUTIONS 
By Carleton Putnam
This book is a sequel to Carleton
Putnam's Race and Reason, which has
sold over 150,000 copies Since its publication 
six years ago. Race and Reality
brings up-to-date the story begun in the
earlier volume. Readers familiar with
the latter will find summarized here
Putnam's essential viewpoint set in a
fresh perspective. They will also find
added documentation and much that
throws new light on the world's deepening 
racial crisis.
Written in the form of a midnight
soliloquy, Race and Reality recounts the
author's experiences with the scientific
hierarchy since 1961. It traces to its
source our national bewilderment on the
Negro question. It also reviews the
balance of the evidence in regard to the
hidden facts. The book then tells the inside 
story of the Stell trial and explores
the methods by which the truth about it
has been evaded and ignored. Finally,
in a question and answer section similar
to that in Race and Reason, it deals with
the scores of related issues which so
often confuse the central problem. In
the last two chapters, it focuses on that
problem and proposes a solution.
Stuart Campbell, in a lead review in
the American Bar Association Journal,
forecast that Race and Reason would become 
"one of the most important books
of this generation." The same might well
be predicted for the present work.
PUBLIC AFFAIRS PRESS

WASHINGTON, D. C.
Although sympathetic in some ways to the
Southern viewpoint, Carleton Putnam is not
a Southerner. His first American ancestors,
both on his father's and his mother's side,
arrived in Massachusetts twenty years after
the Mayflower. One of his grandfathers was a
New York publisher, the other a justice of the
New York Supreme Court.
Putnam received his science degree from
Princeton and his law degree from Columbia.
After an outstanding career as an airline executive 
he retired from the board chairmanship of
Delta Air Lines in 1954 to write a biography
of Theodore Roosevelt. Allan Nevins considered 
his first volume "remarkable", the
Saturday Review called it "infinitely engaging"
and the Atlantic Monthly praised it as "admirable 
and formidable".
In recent years the author has been diverted
from Roosevelt by his concern over the race
question. With the publication of his widely
acclaimed letter to President Eisenhower in
1958 he became involved in a Controversy
which has continued ever since. Believing that
race is one of the most crucial as well as least
understood subjects in the modern world, he
has devoted the past decade to investigating
the issues and dispelling public misconceptions
in this field. His books Race and Reason and
Race and Reality contain the substance of his
findings.
"Putnam penetratingly analyzes how liberal dogmatism has paralyzed 
the ability to doubt popular views even in academic cloisters
with resultant prevention of publication of research on racial questions. 
My personal investigations verify some specifics and the
general tenor of Putnam's extensive reporting of such effective suppression 
. . . I urge thoughtful citizens to read Putnam's analyses
and, in keeping with constitutional principles of freedom of speech
and press, to provoke public debate between the unpopular ideas he
presents and those currently popular. I urge this action in the
interest of replacing prejudice, prejudgment and bias with scientific
method and objectivity even though I by no means accept all of his
conclusions. I have also learned by both spoken and written communication 
that several members of the National Academy of
Sciences share Putnam's conclusion that there do exist significant
genetic differences in distribution of potential intelligence between
races."
—William Shockley, Nobel laureate and a leading member
of the National Academy of Sciences.
"Race and Reality is the only work thus far published which
elucidates the facts in this highly controversial and profoundly emotional 
field. It is objective and unprejudiced. It sets the pathway
to truth."
—John C. Satterfield, Past President, American Bar
Association.
"This treatise is worthy of prompt and careful study by all Americans 
who are concerned with the racial problem which confronts
this country."
—Richard B. Russell, United States Senator; Chairman, 
Armed Services Committee.
"I confirm the scientific soundness of this book. If the National
Academy of Sciences has any factual material to rebut the testimony
in Race and Reality I have yet to see it. On balance the evidence
Putnam presents is overwhelming. Because every item may not be
conclusive is no reason for basing public policy on the assumption that
the opposite of the evidence is true."
—Wesley C. George, formerly
Chairman, Department of Anatomy, University of North Carolina
Medical School.
- i -







RACE AND REALITY
A SEARCH FOR SOLUTIONS 
By Carleton Putnam
Author of "Race And Reason"

Public Affairs Press, Washington, D. C.
- ii -
Copyright, 1967, by Carleton Putnam

Published by Public Affairs Press
419 New Jersey Ave., S.E., Washington, D. C. 20003

Printed in the United States of America
Library of Congress Catalog Card Number 67-19407
- iii -
"The great difficulty we have in facing the race problem 
is that a whole generation of educated Americans
have grown up under Professor Boas' teachings. . .
These are the people who are now in power in the
United States and they don't know what it's all about. . . .
That leaves the race question to be solved only by the
more uneducated people in the country. That means
it's going to be solved in a pragmatic way which is
always, of course, the most disagreeable way possible."
—Extract from a confidential letter to the author from
the son of a former President of the United States.
- iv -
- v -



 CHAPTER I 
 MIDNIGHT IN MAINE  1
 CHAPTER II 
 THE FANTASY  15
 CHAPTER III 
 THE FACTS  46
 CHAPTER IV 
 THE DAY IN COURT  67
 CHAPTER V 
 DECISIONS—ON AND OFF THE RECORD  87
 CHAPTER VI 
 POINT COUNTER-POINT  95
 CHAPTER VII 
 VISTA AT DAYBREAK  176
 CHAPTER VIII 
 MORNING  182
 INDEX  186

- 1 -

CHAPTER I 
 MIDNIGHT IN MAINE 
Along the coast of Maine in September there are days when
the air is like wine and the sky is an infinite blue. One searches
for symbols of clarity to describe such days, for they lend themselves
to wide vistas across the land and within the mind. Moreover,
on Mt. Desert Island a man is on an eastern frontier where
he can still find detachment from crowds and controversies, a
sense of sanctuary and an inducement to meditation.
On some nights the stars are as bright as the stars of Arizona.
I remember such an evening at Seal Harbor in 1966 when I was
on a vacation from the debates and contention which had persisted
since the publication of my Race and Reason: A Yankee
View in 1961. It was a tempting night to review and to ponder.
The inducement was doubled by an isolated study, an open fire
and a brief case stuffed with papers. So I pondered in the study
and fed the fire, trying meanwhile to distill some meaning from
the experiences of half a decade. I had closed Race and Reason
in a contemplative mood—a mood of recapitulation—and now I
wondered if the time had not arrived to evaluate the intervening
years.
Were I to write the first book over again, what would I change?
As for its basic thesis, all that I had said had been validated in the
period since it appeared. The passage of Civil Rights Acts, the
pro-Negro pressures of government departments and the Negro-oriented
stance of the opinion-forming agencies of our society had
only resulted in increasing racial tensions throughout the country.
Disorders in Philadelphia, New York, Rochester, Cleveland, Los
Angeles and other cities were symptomatic of a seething hostility
beneath the surface everywhere.
In the Deep South, twelve years after the Supreme Court's
school integration decision, less than four per cent of the Negro
population were in integrated schools, and these only after threats


- 2 -


and bribery from the federal government. In no state had the
averages reached more than 15 per cent of the total school enrollment,
the flash-point at which trouble could really be expected to
start.
In Negro Africa the deterioration had approached the ludicrous.
During the sixty days prior to January 1, 1966, five "democratic"
African governments—Upper Volta, the Central African Republic,
Dahomey, Nigeria and the Congo—were overthrown by force.
Since 1960 there had been at least 24 African rebellions, mutinies,
assassinations or attempted assassinations, and coup d'etats.
Under such circumstances it was not surprising that while the
crime rate was rising in the United States cannibalism and human
sacrifice were increasing in Africa.
As regards these developments I could only feel that my errors
had been more those of omission than commission. There was
much documentation I would now add, and there were insights
I lacked then and had gained since. Beyond these, there were
questions of emphasis. I had underestimated certain forces and
overestimated others. The larger framework in which the Negro
problem arose was of more importance than I had thought. The
relationship of race to the leftward movement on the world stage
was closer, the reasons for the dishonesty in this area were clearer.
Personal experience with the extent to which otherwise rational
people were willing to be deceived had surprised me, but not as
much as the lengths to which public leaders, scholars, churchmen,
and the mass media would go to alter the fabric of our society in
the deception's name.
Throwing another log on the fire, I realized that I was now more
aware of these things than I had been five years before. Yet in
the interval I had come to appreciate many of them and had taken
such limited action as I could at the time. Especially in the area
of science and the biology of race differences I had grown familiar
with the evasions and other tactics of the educational hierarchy,
their blind dedication to the political dogma of equality, and had
done my best to expose them.
For example, in my hand I held a newspaper clipping regarding

- 3 -


an attack upon Dr. Wesley C. George1—author of The Biology of
the Race Problem and a leading exponent of the truth concerning
genetic variability—which served to illustrate the general situation.
I paused to re-read it now, and to conjure back some of the incidents
that made the episode still vivid in my mind.
The American Anthropological Association had held its annual
meeting in November of 1961 and at its final session, at which
192 of the 600 Fellows of the Association were present, unanimously
passed a resolution which was later used repeatedly as if
it finally disposed of all of Dr. George's work and of Race and
Reason as well. This resolution read in part: "The American
Anthropological Association repudiates statements now appearing
in the United States that Negroes are biologically and in innate
mental ability inferior [sic]2 to whites . . ."
The fallacy here was so transparent, so contrary to all the
established facts, and yet so likely to mislead an uninformed public
on a matter vital to the national welfare that I could not ignore
it. To anyone who had studied the background and motives of
the leaders in these groups it was stark ideological propaganda
without any scientific basis whatever. Moreover, if our domestic
and foreign policies were to be bottomed on such blatant inversions
of the truth, little hope remained for either a law-abiding or
a peaceful world.
Therefore, upon learning of the resolution, I called a press conference
in which I publicly asked the retiring president of the
Association (a Harvard man) a question I had transmitted to him
privately in advance. This question was: Do you also intend to
repudiate the following statement by your recently deceased Harvard
colleague Professor Clyde Kluckhohn, a Viking Medal winner




- 4 -


and a long-time equalitarian,3 who said shortly before he died:
"In the light of accumulating information as to significantly varying
incidence of mapped genes among different peoples . . . it seems
very likely indeed that populations differ quantitatively in their
potentialities for particular kinds of achievement."4
I also asked the retiring president publicly whether he intended
to repudiate the published findings of Professor C. J. Connolly,
physical anthropologist at Catholic University, whose studies of
White and Negro brains disclosed, on the average, a greater sulcification
of the frontal lobes in Whites than in Negroes.5
And I asked the retiring president whether he intended to
repudiate the published statement of Dr. Garrett Hardin, Professor
of Biology at the University of California at Santa Barbara, which
read as follows: "As a result of recent findings in the fields of
physiological genetics and population genetics, particularly as regards
blood groups, the applicability of the inequality axiom is
rapidly becoming accepted."6
I then drew the attention of the retiring president to the fact
that none of these scientists were Southerners and I reminded him
that Professor Ruggles Gates, an Englishman who was at the
time probably the world's most experienced and distinguished
physical anthropologist and human geneticist, had made the public
statement7 that there were vast differences among races in
mental ability and capacity for development. I wanted to know
whether the retiring president had any substantive comment on
any of these statements.
At this point the retiring president had apparently had enough,







- 5 -


because he referred my questions to the new president, a professor
at the University of California at Berkeley, who wrote me a letter
which I consider a classic. Confining his comments to the quotation
from Professor Kluckhohn, he said:
"Relative to the statement by Dr. Kluckhohn, this in no way
contradicts the position which was taken by the Fellows of the
American Anthropological Association at the business meeting in
Philadelphia. For example, people certainly differ in eye color.
These differences are due to genetic causes. Very dark eyes are
more efficient in the tropics, but this has nothing to do with the
ability of people to participate in the democratic way of life."
To which I answered:
"My quotation from Kluckhohn was as follows: 'It seems very
likely indeed that populations differ quantitatively in their potentialities
for particular kinds of achievement.' [Emphasis mine.]
You attempt to answer this quotation by citing differences in eye
color and you make the obvious remark that these have nothing
to do with the ability of people to participate in the democratic
way of life. Kluckhohn spoke of differences in potentialities for
achievement and these do have something to do with the democratic
way of life. They particularly have something to do with
the statement in your Philadelphia resolution which flatly equates
White and Negro intelligence. Your answer is therefore completely
beside the point . . ."
By now the new president of the American Anthropological
Association appeared also to have had enough. At least I heard
nothing more from him thereafter. Although I told the whole
story in speeches and in television and radio interviews, no further
comment was forthcoming from the Association or any of
its officers.
I lingered over this episode because it was so typical of most
of the attacks upon those scientists who offered the public unpopular
but realistic facts on race. The Anglo-American scientific
hierarchy, speaking through their various associations and
magazines, invariably retorted with assertions, not with evidence.8
The discouraging thing was how many people were taken in.9 It




- 6 -


seemed doubly disheartening to me personally in that, to the
extent these retorts were intended to discredit Race and Reason,
they were exactly the sort of thing which any objective reader
should have been led to expect. In that book I had stressed the
degree of political control over the life sciences, and the attacks
now were direct proof of my point. They were transparent tactical
moves by organizations which were the very mouthpieces of
the hierarchy, depending solely for their persuasiveness upon their
position as a hierarchy, and upon the force of numbers, never
upon the facts.
The basic question here was a simple one: Were the American
people to be given the evidence on innate racial capacities and
variability, and then allowed to judge for themselves the soundness
of the public policies which their legislatures and courts were
adopting, or were they to be given only undocumented assertions
which all the available evidence contradicted?
As I have said, the question seemed to me vital, not only in its
bearing upon our domestic policies but upon our foreign affairs as
well. The dissolution of the colonial system among backward peoples
throughout the world, which the United States had done so
much to encourage and which had produced such growing confusion
and violence, stemmed from the assumption that these peoples
had the innate capacity to maintain stable, free societies. The
promiscuous granting of foreign aid, already raising grave problems,
rested on the same assumption. So did proposed changes in
our immigration laws. It was hard to think of any area of domestic
or foreign policy which was not to some extent related to the




- 7 -


basic question, or where the truth was not essential to wise
decisions.
To use charity, kindness, and brotherhood as justification for the
deceit solved nothing. Concealing the truth was not charity, any
more than lying to a patient about a cancer when an operation
might save a life. Running away from reality was not kindness.
Wrecking time-tested colonial systems of control among backward
peoples and substituting systems which produced increasing misery
and bloodshed were not acts of brotherhood.
On the other hand, presenting the facts about innate racial capacities
to a legislature, government executive or court ought to
result in a kinder policy toward school children, a better program
for housing, a more successful attack on slums, a faster and sounder
solution to unemployment, and a more constructive approach to
the problems of the underdeveloped countries. This would not
be a case of setting the clock back, but of turning the lights on.
Yet every day, on every side, government executives, judges,
legislators, teachers and clergymen were acting in blind faith on
a scientific hoax. More startling was the refusal of such men even
to investigate the subject. Never once since the Supreme Court
decision in 1954 had any President so much as invited for consultation
at the White House a single scientist outside the equalitarian
hierarchy.
As for the courts themselves, decision after decision based upon
uncontradicted evidence had been handed down in the lower trial
courts since 1954, had been reversed on appeal on grounds apart
from the evidence, and had been refused review by the Supreme
Court.10 It was a case of a dogged defiance of reality, a plunging
along in total darkness while riots raged, crime rose, and schools
deteriorated.
Gazing at the embers of my fire seemed to offer no solution to
this mystery, but the riddle plagued me. What prompted the vast
majority of liberals and a large number—probably a majority—of
conservatives to close their eyes to the underlying truth? The
underlying truth was the strongest weapon the South had on the



- 8 -


race issue, yet the South refused to use it. The underlying truth
was the strongest weapon conservatives had on the general political
front, yet they also shunned it. To expose liberal dishonesty as
regards the Negro was both a graphic and expedient way to explode
all the fallacies based on the equalitarian ideology, yet conservatives
concentrated instead on economic and constitutional
questions which, at a time of unprecedented prosperity, had comparatively
little appeal to the man in the street.
In fact, few of the arguments of the conservatives had much
validity except in terms of the correct answer to the innate-equality
dogma. If all races were innately equal, then of course our social
organization, both nationally and on the world scene, was full of
flaws. If they were not, then the whole problem changed and conservative
policies took on new meaning. Thus in refusing to challenge
the dogma, conservatives were fencing on a scafiold while
liberals laughed as they watched the trap door open. It became
quite appropriate to refer to the conservative movement and the
Republican Party as the liberals' kept opposition. Their members
were condemned in advance, set up to be ridiculed and extinguished,
amid the scorn and self-satisfaction of the left.
Nevertheless it seemed a fundamental tenet of most conservative
groups, and certainly of the Republican Party, that the issue
was not to be raised. The very root of communism and socialism
which they so vociferously professed to oppose was thus to be left
untouched. It struck me as an incredible surrender, and the reasons
for it demanded analysis.
Was there something somewhere in the Anglo-American social
climate which had destroyed the firmness of character and will, the
self-confidence and spiritual force, needed openly to face an issue
of this kind? Was there some relation between our contemporary
mood of appeasement and indulgence toward crime and juvenile
delinquency which accounted for our avoidance of the equality
issue as well?
Looking back upon my own youth before the first World War,
I surmised that there was. The mood of the times had changed.
Confidence in both the moral and physical force of rectitude had
gradually disappeared. Respect for distinction had gone, too—and


- 9 -


with it respect for authority in the home, in the community and in
the state. All of these things tended to sap a man's courage to
assert a vested pride in his personal heritage—might it not be just
as true as to the heritage of his race?
Then there arose the argument that political expediency, indeed
political necessity, compelled public men to avoid "hurting the
feelings" of minority groups who might hold the balance of power
in elections. But this, also, seemed an invalid approach. A balance
of power position among minority groups could only exist if
the White majority were divided, and the White majority would not
be divided on this issue if it were properly instructed and courageously
led. Some indication of what might be expected if the
matter were considered by itself alone, even without leadership or
instruction, was afforded by the 1964 referendum on the repeal
of the Rumford Act in California. The vote was against open
housing two to one, although President Johnson, an apostle of civil
rights, carried California by 1,200,000 votes on the same day.
What folly it was for conservative leaders to suppose that cursing
communism and dwelling upon its "conspiratorial aspects" as
the John Birch Society did (all the while studiously avoiding any
mention of race or the equalitarian dogma) could accomplish anything
against the growing belief among Americans that the underlying
tenets of communism might be sound! These Americans had
been washed for decades in the powerful soaps of the equalitarian
ideology—in the schools and colleges, in the theatres, on radio
and television, in newspapers, books and magazines, and in the
churches, until they were beginning to accept its validity without
quite recognizing its kinship to communism or its indispensable
connection with that movement.
In fact it was no exaggeration to say that to unmask the equalitarian
dogma was to knock the bottom out of both communism
and socialism. Neither could survive without it because both drew
their major nourishment from supposedly unwarranted economic
and social inequalities among men. To recognize that many of
the inequalities were not unwarranted, that they were instead biologically
constituted and consequently inevitable, was to cut to the
root of every left-wing doctrine, called by whatever name. Similarly,


- 10 -


toying with the superstructure of these movements was
futile because every attack upon it could be met with counter-attacks
in the name of social justice. Indeed there was no possible
way of determining what social justice was until the equalitarian
dogma was dissected and exploded.
Social justice remained, of course, the goal which all men of
good will were bound to seek. It could certainly not be found in
mid-nineteenth century sweatshops nor child labor practices. Neither,
on the other hand, could it be found in misleading courts and
legislatures on the variable capacity of races, nor in inflaming one
race against another by false preachments regarding the responsibility
for unrealized hopes, falsely aroused.
With occasional but not statistically significant exceptions, in
America at least, a man might be poor and "underprivileged" for
one of three reasons: (1) because of innate limitations; (2) because
of laziness and improvidence; or (3) because of social injustice.
No one questioned the imperative to correct category 3.
But what the equalitarian did was to seek to blur the distinction
between all the categories and particularly to transpose 1 into 3.
This must increase rather than abate class and race conflict for
while most reasonable men would be willing to see their savings
and perhaps other fruits of their industry, intelligence and self-denial
taxed or destroyed to correct 3, few would submit indefinitely
to such a procedure on behalf of 1 and 2.
Unless, perhaps, they were sufficiently misled. Then a different
situation developed. The question became one of how long a
society built on false premises could survive if the majority accepted
the premises, and this in turn involved the importance of
the area in which the deceit was practiced.
Unfortunately in the racial area the importance was tremendous.
Could the barrage of excuses which came from the lips of liberals
explain away every decline is educational standards, every deterioration
in morals, every increase in crime, every failure of foreign
policy? The equalitarian arsenal of excuses was almost unlimited.
Could it prevail indefinitely against the facts themselves?
And how long would our politically successful public leaders—
men like Johnson, Eisenhower, Rockefeller and the Kennedys, men


- 11 -


who had managed to ride the tide of consensus into positions of
power as members of the "liberal establishment"—stomach their
own blindness? The simple failure to investigate, to listen to any
but members of the leftist scientific hierarchy, was startling enough
in its revelation of wishful thinking. Second only to the heirarchy,
and the managers of the mass media, such men bore the major
responsibility for the continuance of the deceit. Was there no
hope for a break in the ranks of these opportunists who bought
their immediate success at the price of long-range failure?
One looked in vain for men in public life who understood the
first duty of statesmanship as Theodore Roosevelt understood it.
Roosevelt had written: "People always used to say of me that I
was an astonishingly good politician because I divined what the
people were going to think. This really was not an accurate way
of stating the case. I did not 'divine' how the people were going
to think; I simply made up my mind what they ought to think, and
then did my best to get them to think it." Here was the difference
between a public leader and a public panderer.
Surely there existed a wealth of wholesome and inspirational
issues for the public man in the Anglo-American tradition. If
other stocks could be encouraged in an emphasis upon their traditions
and their achievements, if the Negro could be made the subject
of a national mania, if all our minority groups could, in fact,
be indulged in the practice of an intense racism, had not the time
arrived for a little emphasis upon the values of the founding stocks
which had built America in the most fundamental sense—given it
its law, its language, its government, its religion, its pioneering
enterprise and its stability of character?11 Was it in the interests



- 12 -


of those minorities who had either sought refuge here, or who had
found a refuge by continuing here, that those values should be
changed—and changed in a direction which must eventually produce
the very conditions from which refuge had been sought?
The more one thought about it the less one saw any justification
for the evasive, self-defeating attitude of conservatives, or the outright
self-betrayal of Anglo-American liberals. One might attribute
it to mawkish sentimentality, venality, blindness, or cowardice,
but none of these seemed sufficient to account for the situation.
Perhaps the element that appeared from my experience to
come the closest to the root cause was ignorance, but a strange,
self-perpetuating kind of ignorance bordering on hypnosis, an
ignorance nourished by the pervasive power of the news and
entertainment media after it had first been instilled by the academic
hierarchy—an ignorance buttressed by feelings of guilt
which the ignorance itself created.
Embers were no longer a match for a midnight in Maine. I
decided the time had come for more wood on the fire before I
rummaged further in the brief case which contained the all too
short record of one man's effort against the obfuscation. A review
of it might disclose whether there were points still worth making,
or whether a digest of points already made might prove useful as a
sequel to Race and Reason.
I knew of no way of combatting ignorance except with truth.
St. Paul had said that the truth was mighty and must prevail.
On the other hand I remembered a less optimistic writer who remarked
that the truth would prevail only after no one any longer
had any interest in suppressing it. Today it was staggering how




- 13 -


many seemed to have such an interest. Only the inarticulate,
nation-founding stocks in the United States—the divided and confused
majority—had an opposite interest, and they failed to recognize
it.
I gathered some logs from the woodpile outside, closed the door
against the darkness, and spread a few more papers on the table
under the lamp.
- 14 -

CHAPTER II 
 THE FANTASY 
Which should come first—a deployment of the facts or a survey
of the motivations and techniques which had led to their concealment?
If one deployed the facts, and they were seen through the
glasses of hypnosis, my experience led me to believe they would not
be permitted to reach even the threshold of awareness. The contortions
of liberal minds when confronted by the realities in this
way had given me some bizarre moments.
Yet if one first examined the fantasy by exploring the sources of
the hypnosis, one postponed dealing with the crux of the matter
long enough to try the patience of the less bemused. It was a
hard choice, but I came finally to the decision that it was best to
begin with the hypnosis and to hope that the less bemused would
bear with me for a chapter. There were enough other points in the
fields of ethics and law which would require postponement to later
chapters. In any case one must beg for some patience.
 MOTIVATIONS 
Without question I could state at the outset that modern anthropology
as taught in Anglo-American schools and colleges is the
result of a political ideology, not the source of it. The people
who developed it, and their disciples who disseminated it, were
almost all partisan and passionate crusaders for socialism.
They most certainly wanted all humanity to be innately equal,
and they wanted to discover that the sole reason why inequalities
existed was because of variable environments. Thus the responsibility
for poverty and failure could be placed chiefly on society,
not on the individual, and the rebuilding of the social order on
socialist lines could be justified.
Another thing also was clear. Prior to the advent of Karl
Marx in Germany and of Fabian socialism in England the infant
science of anthropology had found no evidence of innate equality.
- 15 -

Before the middle of the nineteenth century Dr. J. C. Prichard,
often regarded as the founder of this discipline, stated in his
Natural History of Man:
"The organised world presents no contrast and resemblances
more remarkable than those which we discover on comparing mankind
with the inferior tribes. That creatures should exist so nearly
approaching to each other in all the particulars of their physical
structure, and yet differing so immeasurably in their endowments
and capabilities, would be a fact hard to believe, if it were not
manifest to our observation."1
Specifically as regards the Negro, the ninth edition of the Encyclopedia
Britannica (1884) pointed out that "No full-blooded
Negro has ever been distinguished as a man of science, a poet, or
an artist, and the fundamental equality claimed for him by ignorant
philanthropists is belied by the whole history of the race
throughout the historic period."2 Indeed, as late as 1921, it was
still possible for Lothrop Stoddard (A.M., Ph.D., Harvard) to
write the following passages about the Negro in a book issued by
a leading New York publisher:
. . . in the negro, we are in the presence of a being differing
profoundly not merely from the white man but also from those
human types which we discovered in our surveys of the brown and
yellow worlds. . . . The negro's political ineptitude, never rising
above the tribal concept, kept black Africa a mosaic of peoples,
warring savagely among themselves and widely addicted to cannibalism.
"Then, too, the native religions were usually sanguinary, demanding
a prodigality of human sacrifices. The killings ordained
by negro wizards and witch doctors sometimes attained unbelievable
proportions. . . . Since the establishment of white political
control . . . the white rulers fight filth and disease, stop tribal
wars, and stamp out superstitious abominations.
". . . The white race displays sustained constructive power to
an unrivalled degree, particularly in its Nordic branches; the brown
and yellow peoples have contributed greatly to the civilization of




- 16 -


the world and have profoundly influenced human progress. The
negro, on the contrary, has contributed virtually nothing. Left to
himself, he remained a savage, and in the past his only quickening
has been where brown men have imposed their ideas and
altered his blood. The originating powers of the European and
the Asiatic are not in him."3
One could imagine what would happen today if a book with such
passages were submitted to the same house for publication.
Stoddard was one of the last to speak for pre-Marxian anthropology.
As would shortly appear, the change in attitude had no relation
to any new scientific discoveries. Such investigations all reinforced
the pre-Marxian view.4 The new approach was due exclusively
to "imaginative" thinking on the part of the passionate
crusaders. As early as 1844, Marx himself believed, according to
Sidney Hook, that "The primitives actually do not 'see' the same
thing as the more developed races even though their biological
structure may be the same. It is precisely because of the different
character of their social environment [emphasis added] that
they see differently."5 Frederick Engels, Marx's colleague and collaborator
in the major Marxist work on anthropological questions,
continued and developed the emphasis upon environment and the
attack on evolutionary concepts.6 Concerning the motivation behind
these men, one needed only to consider Marx's comment:
"Labour cannot emancipate itself in the white skin where in the
black it is branded."7
But it was with the arrival of Franz Boas that the story of cultural
(environmental) anthropology, at least in the United States,







- 17 -


really began.8 Because the man's background may in part have
accounted for his point of view it seemed appropriate to mention
briefly not only his early professional training but the social and
political inclinations of his family. These threw considerable light
on the formative influences of his youth.
Boas was born of Jewish parents in Minden, Germany, in 1858.
Both his father and mother were radical socialists, and his uncle
by marriage was Abraham Jacobi,9 a physician who was imprisoned
for armed violence in Cologne in the revolution of 1848.
Jacobi later emigrated to the United States and was mentioned
by Marx as active in promoting socialism here. Marx wrote,
"Jacobi is making good business. The Yankees like his serious
manner."10
Significantly Jacobi's second wife was Mary Corinna Putnam,11
eldest daughter of George Palmer Putnam, the publisher, and
when Jacobi finally died at the age of 89 it was at the home of a
lifelong friend, Carl Schurz, formerly Senator from Missouri and
Secretary of the Interior under Hayes. Thus a generation before
Boas himself was to come to the United States a web of circumstances
involving both Marx and Jacobi had preceded him— and
had served to suggest the extent to which Marxist sympathizers
had gained acceptance among intellectuals in America.




- 18 -

But to return to the young Boas, his education included no
training in anthropology. His university degrees were in physical
and cultural geography. His doctoral dissertation was in physics,
the title of his paper being Contributions to the Understanding
of the Color of Water. He made his first field trip, to study
anthropological material in Baffin Land, in 1883 as a geographer
for The Berliner Tageblatt, a liberal paper of the time.12
In 1886 he was a Docent in Geography at the University of
Berlin. The following year he emigrated to New York and the
year after that he served on the faculty of Clark University where
the first Ph.D. in anthropology in the United States was taken
under his supervision.13 How he himself had achieved a doctorate
in anthropology was not clear. He was a lecturer in psychology in
1896 and became a professor of anthropology at Columbia University
in 1899, where he remained until his retirement in 1936.
In 1942 he died suddenly during a luncheon, just after stressing
the need to combat "racism" whenever and wherever possible.
Perhaps the most effective way to illustrate the trend of Boas'
development was to examine two editions of his The Mind of
Primitive Man.14 In the 1911 edition he wrote: "Differences of
structure must be accompanied by differences of function, physiological
as well as psychological; and, as we found clear evidence
of differences in structure between the races, so we must anticipate
that the differences in mental characteristics will be found."
This crucial statement Boas omitted, without explanation, from
the 1938 edition. One of Boas' students and followers, Otto
Klineberg, suggested that "it seems highly probable that Boas
changed his mind on this point."15 To which Dr. George aptly
replied, "Possibly so; but I know of nothing in the development of
anatomy or physiology between 1911 and 1938, or since, to justify
a change of mind . . .; quite the contrary."16 Boas had said flatly,







- 19 -

"We found clear evidence of differences in structure between
the races." One might now reasonably ask—what had happened to
these differences?
While anyone's body could be modified by diet and exercise
within the limits set by heredity, one could hardly take seriously
Boas' personal effort in 1912 to show changes in fundamental
structure through environment. In this case Boas went so far as
to prepare a report for the Federal Immigration Commission which
he called "Changes in Bodily Form of Descendants of Immigrants"
and in which he tried to prove that head forms changed with the
transfer of southern and eastern European stocks to American soil.
Henry Pratt Fairchild, a president of the American Sociological
Society, commented upon this report in these words: "Two careful
scholars, G. M. Morant and Otto Samson, have made an exhaustive
study of the Boas report and related material, and their conclusions
with respect to the Boas study are summarized as follows:
'In our opinion the data collected for the Immigration Commission
are not capable of leading to definite proofs of these or
alternative hypotheses of the same kind. . . . As far as the Jewish
material is concerned, there seems to be no justification whatever
for the statement, said to be "ample proved", that there is
a "far-reaching change in the type [of immigrants]—a change
which cannot be ascribed to selection or mixture, but which can
only be explained as due directly to the influence of environment."
. . . Our general conclusion is that considerably larger divergencies
would have to be found in order to establish the theory that headform,
as estimated by the cephalic index, is modified directly by
the environment.'"17
Fairchild added: "Boas apparently is expecting his reader to
accept this one study as of sufficient weight to offset not only the



- 20 -


conclusions of dozens of able anthropologists, but also the commonplace
observations of the layman in such cases, for example,
as the pure-blooded American Negro where there has been no
obvious modification of many basic traits after several generations
of residence in the American environment."18
Nevertheless, as the years went on, Boas succeeded in becoming
the leading exponent of environmental anthropology in the United
States and in making this "cultural" or "social" form of the
science the most popular and the most publicized. He managed
to saturate both the public and his students at Columbia with books
and lectures on the dogma that environment is the dominant factor
in the molding of mankind, and to raise up a generation of disciples
who would carry forward his teachings in the next generation—
disciples whom Dr. George appropriately called a "cohesive
propaganda group".
One had no difficulty in understanding Boas in the context of
his time. Two distinct but converging streams of influence joined
to drive him. There was, first, his socialist philosophy, concerning
which it would suffice to quote his sympathetic biographer and
student Melville Herskovits: "In his political sympathies he
leaned towards a variety of socialism common among Nineteenth
Century liberals."19 Indeed, Boas' family background had not
lain fallow. His record before the Special Committee on UnAmerican
Activities of the United States House of Representatives
showed 46 listings of communist-front connections.20
Secondly, Boas, popular as he was in several quarters, nevertheless
could not escape the fact that as a Jew he remained a
member of an "out-group" in the America of his day. The endless
and bitter battle against "racism" which he and his associates never
ceased waging and in the throes of which he died, was apparent
in his work. He was obviously not without strong personal
incentives.



- 21 -

The same double drive could be attributed to a majority of
his immediate disciples; for the others, the socialist influence
sufficed. Even a cursory inspection of their names and connections
suggested the nature of the forces acting on most of these individuals,
and the impression could be fortified by a review of
some of their activities. I was indebted to Dr. George for a tabulation:
Ruth Benedict, born New York 1887, died 1948; educated at
Vassar and Columbia; lecturer in anthropology at Columbia,
advancing to professor.
Isador Chein, born New York 1912; M.A. Columbia 1933;
Ph.D. Columbia 1939. One of the Supreme Court authorities in
the desegregation decision.
K. B. Clark, a Negro, born Panama 1914; Ph.D. Columbia
1940. One of the Supreme Court authorities in the desegregation
decision.
Theodosius Dobzhansky, born in Russia 1900; graduate, University
of Kiev; professor of zoology, Columbia 1940. Retired.
L. C. Dunn, born Buffalo, New York 1893; professor of
Zoology, Columbia 1928. Retired.
Melville Herskovits, born Ohio 1895, died 1963; Ph.D. Columbia
1928; assistant professor (1927) advancing to professor of
anthropology, Northwestern University.
Otto Klineberg, born Quebec 1899; Ph.D. Columbia 1927;
research associate in anthropology, Columbia, 1929-31; psychology
1931; professor 1949.
Margaret Mead, born Philadelphia 1901; Ph.D. Columbia 1929;
associate curator, American Museum of Natural History.
Ashley Montagu, born England, 1905; came to United States
1927; Ph.D. Columbia 1936; Chairman, Department of Anthropology,
Rutgers University 1949-1955. Retired.
Gene Weltfish, born in New York 1902; Ph.D. Columbia 1929;
formerly lecturer in anthropology, Columbia.
This was the group of which Herskovits wrote: "The four
decades of the tenure of his [Boas'] professorship at Columbia
gave a continuity to his teaching that permitted him to develop
students who eventually made up the greater part of the significant
professional core of American anthropologists, and who came to
man and direct most of the major departments of anthropology in
the United States. In their turn, they trained the students who,


- 22 -


with the increase in general interest in the subject and the recognition
of the contribution it can make to human knowledge and
human welfare, have continued in the tradition in which their
teachers were trained . . ."21
The public had some familiarity with a majority of these names.
Almost all the tracts on race distributed by UNESCO and similar
organizations were authored by them, as were most of the books
and articles available in bookstores and on newsstands.22 Their
views were often aired on network television and radio. But their
personal backgrounds were not so well known.

Ruth Benedict, whose Patterns of Culture23 sold over a million
copies in paperback alone and was required reading in many
college courses in the social sciences, began her studies at the
New School for Social Research. This school was described by a
Joint Legislative Committee Investigating Seditious Activities in
the Senate of the State of New York as "established by men who
belong to the ranks of near-Bolshevik intelligentsia."24 Miss Benedict
remarks that she "went to see Dr. [Alexander] Goldenweiser
about taking a course with him during the first year of the New
School for Social Research. I was an unemployed housewife with
no knowledge of anthropology, and he took me on as a neophyte






- 23 -


. . . After a year of this work, he sent me to Dr. Boas and Dr.
Lowie and suggested that I take work with them also."25
Margaret Mead stated that Patterns of Culture, whose preface
she wrote (Boas wrote the introduction), went through eleven
printings, was translated into fourteen languages and became "as
timeless as the lives of the people on which it was based." Miss
Benedict also co-authored with Gene Weltfish the pamphlet Races
of Mankind, issued by the War Department to our military personnel
during World War II. This publication was finally withdrawn
because it was criticized as red propaganda. Later Gene
Weltfish accused the United States of using germ warfare in
Korea. Some of her other communist-front activities I had listed
in Race and Reason.26
Melville Herskovits, too, attended the New School for Social
Research and studied under Goldenweiser.27 The motivation underlying
Herskovits' career was suggested by a direct quotation
from his work: "Let us suppose it could be shown that the Negro
is a man with a past and a reputable past; that in time the concept
could be spread that the civilizations of Africa, like those of
Europe, have contributed to American culture as we know it
today; and that this idea might eventually be taken over into the
canons of general thought. Would this not, as a practical measure,
tend to undermine the assumptions that bolster racial prejudice?"28




- 24 -

There was nothing unnatural or improper about such an incentive
in any member of a minority group. Whether it was conducive to
an accurate evaluation of scientific evidence was a matter for the
public to judge.
As for Ashley Montagu, his background served as a further
illustration of this particular aspect of the problem. In addition
to his career as head of the Department of Anthropology at
Rutgers, Montagu acted as the rapporteur responsible for drafting
the controversial Statement on Race for UNESCO in 1950. He
wrote books with such titles as Man's Most Dangerous Myth:
The Fallacy of Race. He had been anthropological advisor to
NBC-TV, and had appeared repeatedly on such programs as David
Susskind's "Open End", where the impact of his views was nationwide.
With his handsome presence and cultivated English accent
he might well be regarded as the most effective popularizer of
Boas on the national scene.
Yet Montagu felt impelled, after he immigrated to the United
States in 1927, to change his name from Israel Ehrenberg to
Montague Francis Ashley Montagu.29 He also felt a compulsion to
abbreviate his mother's name in his Who's Who biography from
Mary Plotnick to Mary Plot.
Montagu's activities in the United States were interesting in
other respects. In 1931 he taught at the New School for Social
Research already mentioned. In 1942 he was a lecturer before
the School for Democracy which was classified as communist by
the New York Legislature and which merged to form the Jefferson
School of Social Science, cited as communist by the Attorney
General in 1947 and by the California Senate in 1948. In 1942 he
stated that "Soviet Russia is the outstanding example of perfect
management of ethnic group relations under unusually difficult



- 25 -


economic conditions."30 Since Russia has no Negro problem this
statement seemed misleading.
During 1942 he was a sponsor of the Science Congress, conducted
by the National Council of American-Soviet Friendship,
cited as communists by the Attorney General in 1947 and 1948.
In 1946 he sponsored the Independent Citizens Committee of
the Arts, Sciences and Professions which merged subsequently to
form the Progressive Citizens of America, cited as communist by
the California Senate in 1947 and 1948. In 1947 he contributed
to Interne, official organ of the Association of Internes and Medical
Students, listed on page 34 of the Guide to Subversive Organizations.31
In 1950 he signed a letter to President Truman from the
American Committee for the Protection of the Foreign Born,
cited as communist by the California Senate in 1947 and 1948
and by the Attorney General in 1948; and in 1950 he was a
sponsor of the Mid-Century Conference for Peace, listed on page
50 of the Guide to Subversive Organizations.
If it were true as Montagu had stated that in his contacts with
these various organizations he had been misled, then I had the
impression that he was misled rather often, and that both in these
connections and in his conscious or unconscious drives in the
racial area he disclosed anything but a detached and scientific view.
Further examples seemed unnecessary. The converging streams
of influence inherent in "out-group" resentments and the socialist
ideology were extraordinarily powerful in combination, but were
powerful enough singly. In fact, as the leftward movement of
our times gathered momentum after 1933 and as the teachings
of the original Boas group permeated the next generation, the
Anglo-American elements in the cult became increasingly numerous.
It was part of the pattern that they should be welcomed,
and even recruited. They were of special value in lending an aura
of impartiality to what would otherwise have been too obviously
minority-group propaganda.
Thus slowly but surely, throughout and after the New Deal,



- 26 -


motivation found fulfillment in the capture of a majority of teachers,
of students and finally of the public. One must now turn to a
consideration of the processes by which the hypnosis was achieved
and maintained.
 TECHNIQUES 
Based upon my own experience I could state that there were
four major methods involved, with numerous subsidiary variations.
The foremost tool, from the standpoint of conditions as they
existed in 1966, was the undocumented assertion by the scientific
hierarchy channelled through the news media. Next in order
were the two techniques of debate by avoidance and diversion—
by shifting in the middle of a discussion from scientific to political
grounds, a maneuver constantly executed by the hierarchy—and
of argument by outright chicanery. Finally the whole procedure
was secured by the suppression and persecution of scientists who
offered to tell the truth. A few examples of each of these techniques
would serve to illustrate a well-established design.
Nowhere perhaps had the technique of the undocumented assertion
met with greater initial success than in the international
arena through the United Nations. Here the no-race-differences
dogma was flung like a banner high and wide in the form of the
UNESCO Statement on Race, a manifesto drafted or revised among
others by the Boas protégés Montagu, Dobzhansky, Dunn and
Klineberg. The statement as first issued in 1950 read in part:
"Whatever classification the anthropologist makes of man, he
never includes mental characteristics as part of those classifications.
It is now generally recognized that intelligence tests do not in themselves
enable us to differentiate safely between what is due to
innate capacity and what is the result of environmental influences,
training and education. Wherever it has been possible to make
allowances for differences in environmental opportunities, the
tests have shown essential similarity in mental characters among
all human groups. In short, given similar degrees of cultural
opportunity to realize their potentialities, the average achievement
of the members of each ethnic group is about the same."32
This manifesto, by UNESCO's own account, was "extremely



- 27 -


well received by the general public."33 It was printed in a considerable
number of newspapers in a score of countries and was
frequently quoted in works dealing with the race problem; the
Assembly of the French Union, at its meeting on November 20,
1951, adopted a proposal for the publicizing of the statement and
its inclusion in school syllabuses.
But unfortunately for Montagu and his colleagues the Statement
was in due course so widely repudiated by various biologists,
geneticists and physical anthropologists that UNESCO was forced
in 1951 to issue a modified but still unsatisfactory substitute.
Some of the criticisms leading to the modification, and also of the
modification itself, were printed in a booklet later published by
UNESCO (without any publicity comparable to the original
Statements) under the title "The Race Concept: Results of an
Inquiry."
This booklet contained a critique of both the first and second
Statements by Professors Darlington, Coon, R. A. Fisher, Eugen
Fischer, Genna, Lenz, Saller, Scheidt, Weinert, Mather, Stern,
Muller, Sturtevant and Snyder. Since it served to emphasize not
only the undocumented nature of the original assertions, but their
actual fallacy, it seemed proper to review a few of the complaints.
C. D. Darlington, Professor of Botany at Oxford University,
England, wrote as follows:
". . . this statement is partly untrue and capable of being contradicted
at once. . . . Summing up, there is a danger that any
statement about race issued by people who disagree with the Nazi
views on race expressed 20 years ago by Hitler, Rosenberg and
Streicher will be designed as a reply to those views. Since the
Nazi views were emotional in expression and political in purpose,
any discussion of them by scientists should be explicit, and
explicity separate from the expression of scientific opinions.
Otherwise their opinions will be confused by the emotional and
political issues.
"This confusion is found throughout the first UNESCO Statement
on Race and in all the last six paragraphs of the second
Statement.
"Today we understand very much more about how human



- 28 -


society has evolved than Darwin did; but few of us know the
results of this evolution by our own observations better than he
did. Fortunately genetics has given us every reason to agree with
him. In The Descent of Man he writes: 'The races differ also in
constitution, in acclimatization, and in liability to certain diseases.
Their mental characteristics are likewise very distinct; chiefly as
it would appear in their emotional, but partly in their intellectual,
faculties.'
"By trying to prove that races do not differ in these respects
we do no service to mankind. We conceal the greatest problem
which confronts mankind, namely, how to use the diverse, the
ineradicably diverse, gifts, talents, capacities of each race for the
benefit of all races."
Sir Ronald Fisher, Professor of Genetics at Cambridge University,
had one fundamental objection to the Statement which he
felt destroyed the spirit of the whole document. He believed that
human groups differ profoundly "in their innate capacity for intellectual
and emotional development" and concluded that the
"practical international problem is that of learning to share the
resources of this planet amicably with persons of materially different
nature," and that "this problem is being obscured by entirely
well-intentioned efforts to minimize the real differences that exists."
Dr. Fisher remarked further:
"It appears to me unmistakable that gene differences which influence
the growth or psychological development of an organism
will ordinarily pari passu influence the congenital inclinations and
capacities of the mind. In fact, I should say that, to vary conclusion
(2) on page 5 [of the second Statement], 'Available
scientific knowledge provides a firm basis for believing that the
groups of mankind differ in their innate capacity for intellectual
and emotional development,' seeing that such groups do differ
undoubtedly in a very large number of their genes."
Professor Fritz Lenz, Professor Emeritus at the Institute for
Menschlischer Erblehre, University of Gottigen, Germany, stated:
"Every attempt to restrict racial differences to physical differences
is both arbitrary and scientifically unjustifiable. Linnaeus
expressly included psychical differences in his diagnoses. Psychical
hereditary differences are much more important than physical
differences."
- 29 -

Dr. H. J. Muller, Professor of Zoology at Indiana University,
United States, commented:
"Since there are very abundant individual genetic differences
affecting psychological traits it would be extremely strange if there
were not also differences in the frequencies of such genes, between
one major race and another, in view of the fact that there are
such pronounced differences in the frequencies of genes affecting
physically and chemically expressed traits. That would surely be
the attitude of the great majority of geneticists."
Dr. A. H. Sturtevant, Professor of Biology at the California
Institute of Technology, wrote as follows:
"I have felt for some time that some of the arguments for racial
equality were so obviously contrary to genetical experience as to
be positively harmful—even when I approved of the conclusions
drawn as to desirable social aims.
"There is excellent evidence for the existence of individual
differences in mental characteristics—all the way from purely
sensory differences such as color blindness to severe mental derangements
such as phenylketonuria. On general grounds there
can be little question that less easily analyzed genetic differences
occur in all sorts of mental properties. There can also be little
question that there are at least statistical differences between races
in such genes."
As a final touch, anyone who took the trouble to look behind
the facade would discover that the scientists who were asked to
participate in formulating the UNESCO Statements were a selected
group. Some of the world's greatest authorities in the field of race
were not invited. These included Professor R. Ruggles Gates, Sir
Arthur Keith, Professor Renato Biasutti, Professor Mario Canella,
and Professor Bertil Lundman. Also omitted were American
psychologists who had made original studies in this area, among
them Professors Henry E. Garrett, and S. D. Porteus. In other
words, the manifesto was a propaganda device of the most flagrant
kind.
It might appear at first glance that as far as the UNESCO
Statements were concerned the Boas cult had been sufficiently
answered by the foregoing replies, but from the standpoint of the
public nothing could be further from the truth. Here the alliance


- 30 -


between the cult and the news media came into action and the
"channelling" began. Newspapers, magazines, book publishing
houses, and radio and television networks could all be counted on
to disseminate the Statements indefinitely, and to see to it that
the replies were forgotten. In fact, the media phase of the undocumented-assertion
technique was so essential that it deserved
special emphasis. I personally had repeated contact with it
and could speak from first-hand observation.
I had already mentioned the resolution of the American Anthropological
Association in Philadelphia in 1961. Although it
seemed to me that the fallacy of that resolution had been sufficiently
unmasked in public debate, it continued to be used by the
media at every opportunity. It was even entombed in books attacking
Dr. George and myself years after the event, with no mention
whatever of the replies.34
When it came to answering undocumented assertions in magazines,
the same result followed. For example, in the March 1964
issue of the Atlantic Monthly, Oscar Handlin, a Harvard professor
and Pulitzer Prize winner in history, wrote a 5000 word article
built around the sentence "There is no evidence of any inborn
differences of temperament, personality, character or intelligence
among races." Upon seeing it I wrote Edward Weeks, the editor,
protesting the falsehood and asking for equal space to reply.
Instead I was allowed a 300-word "letter to the editor", with
rebuttal to Handlin but no sur-rebuttal to me.35 This was typical
of my experience with other magazines. A subject which required
detailed treatment in depth was relegated, as far as the truth was
concerned, to "Letters to the Editor" and answered by further
undocumented resolutions and assertions to which no reply was
allowed.
As to the newspapers, not too much difficulty arose in getting
letters to the editor published as long as one avoided the issue of
innate differences. Once the New York Times actually asked to




- 31 -


publish a not-for-publication letter by me to the editor provided
only that I would omit one paragraph referring to this issue. The
reason, of course, was that while all other material regarding
Negro differences could be attributed to White injustice, and the
author made to seem a cruel "racist", the anatomical and genetic
material could not. Therefore any attempt to put it before the
public was forbidden.
Or almost forbidden. If one paid for an advertisement one could
occasionally get it accepted in papers of secondary influence with
strong, undocumented objection on the editorial page of the issue
in which the advertisement appeared. But the papers of controlling
influence would not even accept advertisements.
As an illustration, in the spring of 1964 the National Putnam
Letters Committee36 decided to offer, in full-page advertisement
form, a letter I had written to President Johnson in which I carefully
summarized and documented nine separate categories of
evidence on the crucial question. This advertising procedure had
been used in the case of my letter to President Eisenhower in 1958
with considerable success.37
Now, however, both the money and the advertisement were
refused by all the papers which mattered most, in all the cities
where it would have had the most influence, namely, New York,
Washington, Boston, Philadelphia, Chicago and Los Angeles.
The difference lay solely in the fact that the 1958 advertisement
did not deal with the bed-rock issue—the 1964 advertisement did.
In the field of radio and television, my experience had been
the same. Whenever the subject of innate race differences arose
during any program the discussion leader would wait until the last
minute and then, when no time was left to answer, would read the
resolution of the American Anthropological Association as a
coup de grace.
The most glaring episode of this kind developed not in connection
with this resolution but with an occurrence which grew out of




- 32 -


the annual meeting of the American Association of Physical
Anthropologists in the spring of 1962. Both the event and the
manner in which it was afterwards "channelled" by a television
network were so typical and so automatic that it seemed worth
reporting as one incident.
Moreover it involved no less a personage than the American
scientist Carleton S. Coon, at the time president of this Association.
Dr. Coon, a New Englander by birth and background, had
received his A.B., magna cum laude, A.M., and Ph.D. from Harvard
University. He had been awarded the Viking Medal in
Physical Anthropology in 1952. He was unquestionably one of the
most distinguished scholars on the world scene.
On the evening in question Dr. Coon was presiding at a final
session. Although several of the members had already gone home,
a resolution which had been discussed but tabled at a previous
session was reintroduced. This resolution condemned Race and
Reason because "there is nothing in science that justifies the
denial of opportunities or rights to any group by virtue of race."
No allegation was made as to what opportunities or rights, if any,
Race and Reason proposed be denied, nor by what authority
physical anthropologists, acting officially in that capacity, presumed
to pass upon legal or political questions.
Before entertaining the resolution Coon asked for a show of
hands as to how many had read the book. Out of about seventy
in the room, three raised their hands. At this point Coon remarked
that under the circumstances he would rather resign the presidency
of the Association than preside further over the session. He then
left the rostrum and went home.
Confusion followed. I had not seen the minutes of the meeting
but it was a matter of record that no resolution reached the press
at the time. While one seems to have been passed, it was probably
felt that to release it under the circumstances would reveal too
much. Later in the summer, however, it appeared in a small New
England newspaper and was thereafter "in the open literature".
How "open" it was I discovered that autumn. On October 7,
during the Oxford, Mississippi, crisis, I received an invitation to
participate in an ABC coast-to-coast television program featuring


- 33 -


a general discussion of the race problem with Howard K. Smith
as anchor man. During the course of the program the following
dialogue occurred.38
Smith: "Sir, what do you think about this statement which was
made by the American Anthropological Association? It says:
'The Association repudiates statements now appearing in the
United States that Negroes are biologically and in innate mental
ability inferior to Whites.'"
Putnam: "I might compare that statement with a recent book39
written by the president of the American Association of Physical
Anthropologists [Coon] in which he presents evidence, and takes
the position, that the Negro race is 200,000 years behind the White
race on the ladder of evolution."
Smith: "What are some of the findings?"
Putnam: "The findings are that there is from every standpoint
—from the standpoint of zoology, from the standpoint of anatomy,
from the standpoint of anthropology, from the standpoint of
psychology—there is no question—the evidence is overwhelming
in favor of a difference between the races in those elements which
are involved in adaptability to our Western culture."
Smith: [In a changed background, facing the audience, Putnam
cut from scene.] "Mr. Putnam suggested that Dr. Carleton Coon,
the president of the Association of Physical Anthropologists, gave
some support to his view. We asked that Association, and it
gave us this statement: 'We condemn such writings as Race and
Reason.'—that's Mr. Putnam's book—'There is nothing in science
that justifies the denial of opportunities or rights to any group by
virtue of race.'" [Interview terminated].
The legerdemain exercised here had to be seen and heard to
be appreciated. By it, of course, the public was left with the idea
that I had misrepresented the support given Race and Reason by
Coon's book. I cited Coon in documentation of my thesis, and
Smith arranged the interview to appear to refute the citation by
quoting a resolution which had no relation to Coon's book and
which Coon had done his best to oppose. Without actually making
any false statement Smith had succeeded in leaving with the




- 34 -


audience coast-to-coast a totally false impression of the facts.40
No better example could be asked of the smooth cooperation
between the Boas cult and the news and entertainment media; it
occurred constantly throughout the opinion-forming agencies of
our society. And if one wondered at this close-bosom alliance,
one did not have to seek far for an explanation. It lay once more
in common motivations and mutual sympathies. Little perspicacity
was required to discern that the identical drives which had swayed
Boas were also within preponderant areas of the media, and that
consequently the facilities for "channelling" were ready at hand.
They operated twenty-four hours a day like clockwork. They
made the technique of the undocumented hierarchic assertion as
powerful as any.
Of almost equal importance one must rank the technique of
argument by avoidance through political diversion or substitution.
It consisted in retreating from one untenable scientific position to
another, hoping to benefit from the ignorance of the opponent,
failing which the shift was quickly made to non-scientific grounds
such as civil rights and the Constitution.
I could think of many minor illustrations of this gambit. Before
me on my desk was a New York Times review41 of Dr. Coon's
The Origin of Races by William W. Howells, Chairman of the
Department of Anthropology at Harvard. In this review Howells
remarked that Coon's book had been "pounced on with delight
by the present cohort of racists"—by which he apparently had
reference to such bigots as Dr. George—and then he proceeded
to set up various specious scientific reasons42 why George's interpretations
of Coon were mistaken. Perhaps realizing how specious
these reasons were, Howells ended with a sigh—half of triumph,
half of relief. "Anyhow," he gasped, "I see no way of using such
arguments [Dr. George's] to disprove the Constitution of the





- 35 -


United States." He planned this, I suppose, to be again the coup
de grace, but it was certainly not science; it was, in fact, very
bad law, as would soon be apparent.
Howell's retreat through the treacherous swamp of scientific
fallacy to the imaginary rock of the Constitution was a pathway
scientists tread often enough. But sometimes the hierarchy
abandoned the preliminary retreat and took up their position on
the rock from the start. In the November 1, 1963, issue of
Science an article appeared mis-entitled "Science and the Race
Problem," this time specifically attacking Dr. George and myself.
The article was introduced as a report of a Committee of the
American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS)
and bore the signatures of what I presumed was intended to be
an authoritative list of names.43 In this article no attempt was
made to answer any of the scientific arguments advanced by
either Dr. George or me. The entire paper hinged on the point
that we were "challenging the principle of human equality which
is assured by the Constitution of the United States."
Since the matter occupied the pages of Science for several
issues, and since it involved the whole validity of this type of
technique, I might venture to offer my reply in part. In a letter
published in Science and the Congressional Record,44 I answered:
"It is totally incorrect to say that a 'principle of equality' is
embodied in the Constitution. The 14th Amendment refers to
'equal protection of the laws,' but nowhere in this amendment,




- 36 -


nor anywhere else in our national charter, is there any support
for a concept of social or biological equality. The principle which
the AAAS committee dwells upon simply does not exist. . . .
"The committee errs also when it states that 'there is nowhere
in the Supreme Court decision an appeal to science that relates
to the nature and the origins of racial differences.' The finding
of psychological injury to Negro children in Brown45 is based
upon evidence which has now been shown to have been misinterpreted
by the chief witness in that case. The evidence actually
proves that integration injures the Negro more than segregation.
Stell v. Savannah Board of Education, 22 F. Supp. 667 (S.D.
Ga. 1963).
"So the question immediately follows: Can this injury, which
is due to an awareness of lower capacity, be overcome by contact
with white children and the prolonged environment of white
schools? And that answer in turn depends upon whether the
Negro's limitations are environmentally or genetically conditioned.
"Public policy might conceivably justify the forced intrusion
of Negroes into white schools, and the attendant turmoil, if the
Negroes' limitations were due to environment and were temporary.
By no possible argument can it be justified if these
limitations are genetic and permanent. Hence, Dr. George's
material goes to the very heart of the legal problem. . . .
"Altogether, 'Science and the Race Problem' is a tissue of
fallacies and confusion put forward by men of no special qualification
in the pertinent disciplines of anatomy and physical
anthropology, who have acted with transparent political motivation.
The timing with which the article was picked up and distorted
by the general press denotes careful prearrangement on
which I suppose the committee is to be congratulated."
The last sentence in this letter referred to the fact that, on the
precise date of issue, stories regarding the article appeared to
my knowledge in the leading New York, Washington and Chicago
newspapers, followed by comments by columnists. Even the
press of Australia remarked upon it.
Needless to say neither my answer nor those written by Drs.
George and Garrett received any notice whatever in the media.
The latter again served exclusively as a channel for the hierarchy,
who this time were posing as scientists but acting in fact solely



- 37 -


as political commentators. They stood with all the trappings of
their scientific authority flapping in the wind while they delivered
themselves of declarations on law and politics about which they
knew virtually nothing.46 Meanwhile the public saw the authority
and heard the declaration without realizing that the first had
no relation to the second. The close liaison between the hierarchy
and the media had achieved one more success.
On my table under the lamp I found another letter bearing
upon the same point from a different angle. In the summer of
1964 there was held in Moscow, appropriately perhaps, a convention
of 22 scientists called together by UNESCO. These
scientists concluded their meeting by issuing the usual equalitarian
statement on race, totally devoid of any supporting evidence. As
usual, too, the press broadcast the statement with the customary
references to how it "pulled the rug out from under" us bigots
on the other side.47
But I happened to be personally acquainted with several of
the scientists at the Moscow meeting and, whatever their political
views, I knew the scientific views of some of them. I reached
one of them on the long distance telephone, a man whose privacy
I respected and whom I would not designate by either name
or nationality. I asked this gentleman what had occurred to
make him sign such a document and his reply, freely translated,
ran somewhat as follows:
The Moscow meeting had been suffused with a sense of urgency.
Something was going on behind the scenes "which made ruddy-cheeked
men turn ashen." It became apparent that the cause
was the explosion by China of an atomic bomb. The point
immediately was made that now of all times China should be
deprived of any propaganda argument against the West. Other




- 38 -


Afro-Asian nations would be quick to listen, and consequently
something must be done to remove from the West the "racist
tag." There could be no better way than by signing the equalitarian
declaration.
When I reminded this gentleman that such declarations undermined
domestic tranquility in my country and betrayed those in
the United States who were relying on the triumph of scientific
truth, he replied that politically he feared the international situation
more than our domestic problems.
After thinking this over for a day or two I sat down and wrote
him a letter in which I pointed out that the sort of appeasement
of which he had been guilty would not do a particle of
good, that the more one appeased the more the encroachment
was invited, that he would never win any help worth having
by lying to, and fawning upon, backward peoples—all he would
accomplish was the weakening of the United States.
Then I added: "There is a final point here about which I
feel very strongly. If scientists wish to express their personal
political views as private citizens, that is of course their privilege.
But I do not think they have a right to get together as a group
speaking as scientists (with all their public authority as scientists)
and then falsify science in undocumented public pronouncements
on political issues, simply because their private political opinions
make them believe this is justified. They have no more right
to do this than a group of doctors would have the right to join
in a medical association and announce that a diet of spinach
would prevent cancer, simply because as individuals they believe
the sale of spinach would help the farmer."
On this occasion, of course, my telephone conversation and
correspondence were necessarily private while the media saw to it
that the UNESCO statement reached the man in the street
around the world. More and more I could appreciate the
validity of some remarks on the Nazis by Dr. Eugen Fischer,
Professor Emeritus of Anthropology at the University of Freiburg
in West Germany, a scholar who knew something about the
subject at first hand. In one of the comments in reply to the
1950 Statement on Race by UNESCO, Dr. Fischer wrote:
- 39 -

"I recall the National Socialists' notorious attempts to establish
certain doctrines as the only correct conclusions to be drawn from
research on race, and their suppression of any contrary opinion;
as well as the Soviet Government's similar claim on behalf of
Lysenko's theory of heredity, and its condemnation of Mendel's
teaching. The present Statement likewise puts forward certain
scientific doctrines as the only correct ones, and quite obviously
expects them to receive general endorsement as such.
"Without assuming any attitude towards the substance of the
doctrines in the Statement, I am opposed to the principle of
advancing them as doctrines. The experiences of the past have
strengthened my conviction that freedom of scientific inquiry
is imperilled when any scientific findings or opinions are elevated,
by an authoritative body, into the position of doctrines."
Dr. Fischer here raised a point with many ramifications in the
United States and Britain. No one witnessing the episodes
already mentioned could doubt that freedom of scientific inquiry
was being imperilled throughout our Anglo-American society.
Nothing better suited both the hierarchy and the media. A major
objective of their liaison, aside from the hypnosis of the public,
was the suppression of truth-oriented scientists. In fact it deserved
to be classified as a technique in itself, and again I had
had some personal opportunity to observe it.
To begin with, of course, all the other techniques contributed
to the weapon of persecution. They elevated the equalitarian
dogma into a fetish by their ceaseless repetition through the
media. The result was an academic climate highly unfavorable
to free discussion, for it led to social ostracism, bitterness between
colleagues, and personal disapproval of the individual worker
and his family.
Beyond this the persecution technique raised higher barriers.
With ruthless brutality it struck the pocketbook nerve. I remembered
the case of a professor of my acquaintance at a Northern
university who published a statistical study of the comparative
mental-test scores of Negroes and Whites of similar socio-economic
status. Since his findings were that the Negro averages were
consistently and significantly lower, even under conditions of
equalized environment, delegations from two racial pressure organizations—one


- 40 -


Negro and one Jewish—requested his university
to dismiss him, the doors of other universities were closed
in his face, and a professional society in his field refused to
admit him to membership on the grounds that his opinions might
be offensive to its Negro members.
As another illustration I had on my table a letter from the
president of a certain scientific society concerning a young member
who voted in favor of a no-difference resolution at a meeting of
that body. The letter read in part: "As for X ———, he said
nothing at all at the meeting but just sat there like many others;
he apologized to me in advance for not voting on the [other]
side on the grounds that should he do so his job would be
in danger. He was probably right. I don't see what else he
could have done under the circumstances."
Or I could quote from a letter from a professor of anthropology
at a large Western university: "It is with regret that I
must decline this opportunity to express again publicly my belief
in his matter [of genetic race differences]. Letters, telephone
calls, and threats after my statement in ——— were not
favorable nor encouraging."
And I had before me a communication just recently received
from a professor of biology at an Eastern university who had
prepared material on genetic racial differences for publication:
"Within the next few days [after my decision to publish had
been reached] the President [of the University] summoned me
to his office, and in the presence of the Dean of the Faculty and
the Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, formally forbade
me to publish any of this material. This was a formal and
official prohibition, with some mumbling about academic freedom.
I could only submit. There have been other pressures,
most of which have been subtle. For example, my retirement
will occur next ———, and from a more than adequate
income, my monthly total will be less than ———. I will
squeak through somehow, but I call attention to two federal
and one state job which have died on the vine, and a hint from
a competent source that I had better be quiet if I expect to


- 41 -


get a book published [on another subject]."48
Henry Garrett summed the matter up in a note to me in
1962. Garrett had witnessed the technique as it spread from
its source. He had received his M.A. at Columbia in 1921,
his Ph.D. in 1923, and had then continued at the University 49
throughout the remaining years of Boas' life. "I knew Franz
Boas personally," this letter read. "I was able to observe his
influence as founder of the science of anthropology in America.
. . . I was also able to observe the increasing degree of control
exercised by the [Boas] cult over students and younger professors
until fear of loss of jobs or status became common in
the field of anthropology unless conformity to the racial equality
dogma was maintained. . . . I can testify from repeated personal
observation to the intimidation and to the pall of suppression
which has fallen upon the academic world in the area of which
I speak. It encompasses not only anthropology but certain related
sciences."
In other words the economic sword swung viciously in
hierarchy hands. The group was not content to see a federal
government, already seduced by its dogma, use money to bribe
state governments and buy their cooperation. It must reach down
into the home and bank account of every truth-oriented life
scientist in the Anglo-American world and break him if it could.
Finally I had to consider the technique of argument by chicanery.
In view of the situation disclosed by the other techniques,
perhaps this one should cause no surprise. Yet I marvelled
at the intellectual superficiality of it, and mourned the ease
with which the public succumbed.
I had already noted the type of irrelevancy contained in the
reference of the president of the American Anthropological Association




- 42 -


to eye-color,50 and the sort of excuses offered by the
Chairman of the Department of Anthropology at Harvard in
regard to Coon's Origin of Races.51 I now took from my table a
newspaper clipping reporting another attack on George's Biology
of the Race Problem, this time by Charles C. Perkins, Chairman
of the Department of Psychology at Emory University in Atlanta.
The clipping disclosed that in the course of this attack Dr. Perkins
had given the press the statement that "tests have proved that
Northern Negroes are smarter than Southern Whites."
When I first read this declaration I hardly knew whether to
laugh or cry. The fallacy in it had been exploded so often that
I almost thought Perkins must be joking. Here was the head of
an important department in a leading Southern university telling
a press conference something which the most elementary student
should have rejected as spurious.
The statement could easily be recognized as based upon an
analysis by Otto Klineberg of Alpha examinations given to World
War I soldiers. Klineberg had taken the four Southern states
where the White averages were lowest and compared them with
the four Northern states where the Negro averages were highest.
Here we had the familiar equalitarian trick of comparing the
best of one group with the worst of another and, of course, such
a procedure had no validity whatever. If an above-average Negro
were given a lot of advantages he would do better than a belowaverage
White man who had had very few. Wherever overlapping
statistical distributions existed, the top of one always exceeded
the bottom of the other. This was not the problem at issue.
The problem was what the average Negro would do when compared
with the average White man under like conditions. The
evidence on the latter question left no room for doubt.52
The only mystery was why Perkins or Klineberg chose to
confuse the public mind with what I had come to call the





- 43 -


Klineberg twist. This struck me as the most blatant case imaginable
of straining an argument to the point of absurdity in response
to some conscious or unconscious compulsion. It would have
been bad enough on the part of a layman. Coming from members
of the scientific hierarchy, it was literally fantastic.
Then, taking another example at random, there was the case of
one Donald C. Simmons, a member of the Department of
Sociology and Anthropology at the University of Connecticut.
In the January 5, 1963, issue of the New Republic Simmons
launched his own attack on George's Biology of the Race Problem
and its studies of intelligence in relation to brain weight by
offering in supposed refutation, a group of male Negro brains
which he said were found to weigh more than a certain group of
female White brains.
While slightly, very slightly, more sophisticated than the
Klineberg twist, such a gambit from a member of the hierarchy
must have left any person with even a superficial knowledge
of the subject again nonplussed. Brain weight or size comparisons
were never attempted without first allowing for sex and
body size, and when these adjustments were made the averages
were both consistent and clear. Could it be that Simmons did
not know this? Or was the compulsion again so great as actually
to preclude recognition that his argument had a probative value
of zero?53
Even more startling had been my experience with the science
editor of one of the nation's leading daily newspapers. This



- 44 -


gentleman, whom I admired and valued as a personal friend, wrote
me that informants whom he knew and in whom he had confidence
assured him that "if racial differences exist they are
so slight that they are submerged beneath the gross differences
between individuals of any one race."
Here I immediately recognized the standard sop tossed by the
hierarchy to the unwary among the press for re-circulation to the
public. What seemed beyond belief was that it should have been
offered to a man at the very top of his profession and that he
should have been so easily deceived. To this editor I replied:
"You are, indeed, correct that intra-racial differences exceed
interracial differences. Intra-racial differences are enormous. If
the differences in the averages between two races were as great
as the gross differences between individuals at the extremes of
the same race we would have on the one hand a race of imbeciles
and on the other a race of geniuses. That sort of approach alone
should be enough to alert you to the type of mentality you are
dealing with, and the fact that people in your responsible position
are willing to repeat it is a disquieting indication of the lack of
consideration the matter has received."54
On its face, it ought to have been obvious that the argument
offered this science editor had no bearing on the essential point.
Here we had a difference "so slight" that it was "submerged beneath"
something colossal. Carried to its logical conclusion
it would mean that even if all Negroes were idiots and all White
men Einsteins, race should remain irrelevant.
And these five examples only began the roster of trickery
practiced by supposedly honorable men. In my daily routine I
encountered chicanery, and a willing submission to chicanery,
as a constant pattern. Taken together with the remaining techniques
of the hierarchy, small wonder the hypnosis was complete
and the fantasy rampant. Small wonder the man in the street
was bemused.
Suddenly I was tired. I decided the hour had come to make



- 45 -


myself a pot of coffee. In any case I had dwelt long enough
on motives and methods. If I could present the situation plainly,
then any sincere liberal who still believed that he was being
told the truth about race by the educational establishment, by
the mass media, or for that matter by politicians or churchmen,
would have to be left to his dreaming.
For me, sleep of any kind was out of the question. The next
folder in my brief case dealt with the scientific facts. That one
I now pulled out and placed beside the others on the table.
- 46 -

CHAPTER III 
 THE FACTS 
It would be wise at the beginning to set down the elementary
statistics regarding the current performance of the Negro as a
race in America. Although there could be no debate about these
figures, and although the sole controversy raged over why they
were what they were, nevertheless they remained in themselves
an important introductory part of the evidential picture.
The American Negro on the average produced per capita
eight times as many illegitimate children,1 six times as many
feeble-minded adults, nine times as many robberies, seven times
as many rapes and ten times as many murders as the White man.2
Conversely the Negro race produced one-sixth as many individuals
with an Intelligence Quotient over 130, that is, in the
gifted person category.3 These were the undisputed facts concerning
the performance and behavior of the Negro in the
United States.
Overseas, in the only completely Negro republic in the Western
Hemisphere, the Republic of Haiti, where the Negro had
been on his own, so to speak, since 1844 one found the following
situation from a self-government standpoint. After the Negroes
massacred the last of the White population in 1804, Haiti remained
a part of Santo Domingo until 1844 when it became a
separate "republic." Between 1844 and 1915 only one Haitian
President completed his term of office. Fourteen were ousted
by armed uprisings, one was blown up, one was poisoned and
another was hacked to pieces by a mob.
Between 1908 and 1915 the revolutions and assassinations





- 47 -


increased so rapidly that a United States military occupation was
needed to restore order. This lasted from 1915 to 1934. Thereafter
followed twelve years of rule by a mulatto elite which
ended in the resumption of control by the black military in 1946.
Since then wholesale corruption and political murder have been
the rule.4
Such was the more recent record of the Negro in the Western
Hemisphere, and it could be duplicated on a descending scale
throughout Africa.5 The only question concerned the cause—
was it faulty education and social deprivation, that is to say,
environment, or was it something else? Environment was the
exorcistic word, the abracadabra of the Negro movement. It
was the catch-all excuse, heard from Zanzibar to Seattle, covering
a period in time from the dawn of history to the present—
although one might suppose, in the words of one writer, that in
6000 years the Negro's luck would have changed at least once.
Indeed it seemed to me it could reasonably be argued that
with all due allowance for the environmental excuse, the Negro's
current performance could stand, for the moment at least, as
Exhibit A in my roster of evidence against the equalitarian. I
emphasized the word, because the difference between evidence
and proof was vital. The distinction was constantly neglected
by equalitarians to confuse discussion. As one of their additional
techniques of deceit it consisted in challenging isolated items of
evidence as falling short of absolute proof, regardless of how




- 48 -


strong a circumstantial case the item made, and then deliberately
avoiding an assembly of such items with its cumulative significance.
We would soon see that the weight of the evidence, the balance
of probability, in every area of comparison between the White
man and the Negro, favored the existence of innate differences
in both intelligence and temperament. This was true whether
one studied anatomy, histology, physical anthropology, kinesthetic
maturation rates, electrophysiology, psychology or historical
experience. In some of these areas the balance was less conclusive
than in others, but in all it was on the side of innate
differences, and the total taken together could not be called
other than convincing.
Thus while world-wide performance admittedly did not provide
absolute proof of the Negro's genetic limitations, it was
certainly no evidence whatever in his favor. It was suggestive
evidence against the equalitarian dogma. In this sense I could
offer it as my introductory exhibit.
One came next to a more obviously probative item. In 1950
C. J. Connolly, Professor of Physical Anthropology at Catholic
University, published certain findings in a book which Dr. James
Papez of Cornell called "a reliable study of considerable scope
the like of which has not appeared in recent times." The book
was entitled The External Morphology of the Primate Brain and
in part involved the study of 60 brains of Whites and Negroes.
The nature of Dr. Connolly's findings might be summarized in
his own words:
"Comparing the two large groups of Whites and Negroes, while
the variability is large and there is much overlapping, the mean
values reveal significant differences. The dimensions correlate
well with what we might expect from a knowledge of the cranium
in the two races. The Negro brain is on the average relatively
longer, narrower, and flatter than the brain of the Whites. The
frontal region, as measured by the projectional distance to midpoint
of central sulcus, is, relative to the total length of the brain,
larger in male Whites than in Negroes, while the parietal is larger
in Negroes than in Whites. . . . It can be said that the pattern
of the frontal lobes in the White brains of our series is more
regular, more uniform than in the Negro brain. . . . The White


- 49 -


series is perhaps slightly more fissurated and there is more
anastomosing of the sulci. . . . It is a matter of frequencies."6
The same conclusion had been reached many years earlier
by Poynter and Keegan, who found that "the sulci and gyri of
the Negro brain are undoubtedly less complex and easier of
interpretation than those of the Caucasian."7
No evidence was brought forward, by the hierarchy or anyone
else, to contradict these findings, although an abortive effort was
made to evade their implications. Some critics argued that not
enough was known about the function of the frontal lobes to
evaluate the significance of the differences.
The reply here could be quick and decisive. The functional
aspect of these lobes had been studied by Ward C. Halstead,
bio-psychologist and Professor of Experimental Psychology, Department
of Medicine, University of Chicago, who wrote: "The
frontal lobes are the portion of the brain most essential to
biological intelligence. They are the organs of civilization—the
basis of man's hope for the future."8
Wilder Penfield, brain specialist and Professor of Neurology
and Neuro-surgery at McGill University, considered at the very
top of his profession, confirmed Dr. Halstead's position in these
words: "The whole anterior frontal area on one or both sides may
be removed without loss of consciousness. During the amputation
the individual may continue to talk, unaware of the fact
that he is being deprived of that area which most distinguishes
his brain from that of the chimpanzee. After its removal, there





- 50 -


will be a defect, but he may well not appreciate it himself. The
defect will be in his ability to plan and take initiative . . .
although he may still be able to answer the questions of others
as accurately as ever."9
Freeman and Watts reached somewhat the same conclusions:
"It is not a question of intelligence in all this [consideration
of the function of the frontal lobes], it is a question of the
employment of intelligence. . . . Intelligence is not a function
of the pre-frontal regions, nor is it altered by cleancut removal,
except indirectly. . . . Something else in the personality is more
important and presumably that something else is motivation."10
Not only did the size and the degree of sulcification (fissuration)
of the frontal lobes imply certain specific capacities. They
were in general a measure of evolutionary development. The
frontal lobes of the rabbit were smooth. Connolly himself had
noted "there is a degree of correlation between the sulcal pattern
and the development status of the animal in the series of primate
forms."11
The only other attempt at evasion I had heard in regard to
Connolly's studies was a complaint that his sampling had been
too small. The reply could again be pointed. If the hierarchy
questioned the sampling, why had they never presented a better
one? The hierarchy had the funds and the help of the great





- 51 -


foundations, the opposition did not. Was it possible that the
hierarchy feared to conduct further studies? I left the question
open, but I had no hesitation in classifying Connolly's material.
as Exhibit B, my second item of evidence.
Now for the third. In 1934 F. W. Vint of the Medical
Research Laboratory, Kenya, Africa, published the results of a
comparative study of Negro and European brains in which he
found that the supragranular layer of the Negro cortex was about
15 per cent thinner than the Whites.12 On the significance of
this finding one could quote Dr. George: "Since structure is a
guide to general functions in all those activities that have been
adequately analyzed, it would seem rash to disregard structure
in any consideration of the higher mental functions. In this
connection it seems very significant to me that the cells of the
infragranular layer have extensive primary connections with the
lower brain centers while the connections of the cells of the
supragranular layer are largely intracortical. This is powerful
evidence of their primary participation in the special functions
of the cortex—the organ of civilization."13
Thus the thickness of the supragranular layers, which increases
as one moves up the scale from animals to man, could
be said to be another measure of evolutionary development. The
supragranular layers in the dog are one-half the thickness of
those in the ape, and the thickness of the ape's only three-fourths
the thickness in man.14 In the case of the Negro their
relative thinness again suggested his position on the evolutionary
scale.
Vint went further. He both confirmed a significant simplicity
in the convolutional pattern of the Negro and in addition discovered
racial differences in the cyto-architecture of the frontal
cortex—a paucity of large pyramidal neurons and an excess of
small primitive cells in this area.15


- 52 -

To my knowledge, the only attempt yet made to discredit
Vint's findings consisted in the suggestion that differences in
health or preservative techniques between the European brains
which were measured in Europe and the Negro brains which
were measured in East Africa might have caused differences in
shrinkage which would invalidate his findings. Dr. George replied
that there was no reason to assume that such shrinkage would
affect the Negro's supragranular layer without at the same time
affecting his lamina zonalis, or the visuosensory area of his infragranular
layer, which Vint had found to be thicker in the Negro
than in the White.
Again any new studies by those who might wish to contradict
Vint were notable by their absence. And so here we had
Exhibit C.
Next one came to the subject of brain weight which Simmons
had attempted to confuse. There could be no argument about
the fact that, other things being equal (such as sex, body size,
proportion of parts and sulcification), the weight of the brain
correlated with intelligence. This was true throughout the series
of vertebrate animals. A 300-400 pound alligator had a brain
of about 15 grams—and little sense. A 300-400 pound porpoise
had a brain weight around 1700 grams and was noted for its
intelligence.16
Among human races numerous studies had been made of the
comparative weights of White and Negro brains with results that
all fell within the range of about an 8-12 per cent lower weight
for the Negro brain. Such studies were published by Bean,
Pearl, Vint, Tilney, Gordon, Todd and others.17




- 53 -

I had never seen any findings which disputed these, although
constant efforts like Simmons' occurred to confuse the issue by
injecting variables which properly were eliminated in the initial
hypothesis. The evidence was simply that, as a racial average,
the Negro brain was lighter than the White and that this, in
turn, indicated a lower average level of intelligence and evolutionary
grade.18 In the words of Dr. Coon, "among living populations—absolute
brain size is generally, although not necessarily
individually, related to achievement."19
In point of fact, in brain-weight comparisons one passed
beyond a matter of simple evidence and approached the field of
positive proof. But for the moment I was satisfied simply to
classify the material as Exhibit D.
The preceding Exhibits from the sciences of anatomy and
histology had recently gained support from physical anthropology.
By the evidence of fossil remains in Europe and Africa, Dr.
Coon's Origin of Races20 had documented the hypothesis that
the White race crossed the evolutionary threshold from Homo
erectus to Homo sapiens some 200,000 years ahead of the Negro.
In this book Coon referred to the "great variability of
twentieth-century human beings in evolutionary grades [emphasis
mine] as well as in racial lines." He also said: "It is a fair
inference that fossil men now extinct were less gifted than their
descendants who have larger brains, that the subspecies which
crossed the evolutionary threshold into the category of Homo
sapiens the earliest have evolved the most and that the obvious




- 54 -


correlation between the length of time a subspecies has been in
the sapiens state and the levels of civilization attained by some
of its populations may be related phenomena."
Coon pointed out that certain regions of the earth south
of the equator, among them Central and South Africa, were
areas of refuge during the Pleistocene and formed what might
be called stagnation points where evolution was notably retarded,
both in the development of man and other forms of life. "The
survival of Homo erectus in these antipodal Edens," Coon continued,
"was not disturbed until no earlier than about 30,000
years ago, almost a quarter of a million years after the first
appearance of Homo sapiens in regions nearer the center of
evolutionary activity."21
No serious attempt was made to refute the hypothesis of
The Origin of Races, although a smoke screen of undocumented
general denials and prolix evasions of the issue appeared in the
journals. Theodosius Dobzhansky challenged the likelihood of
parallel evolution, only to be met in Coon's rebuttal by specific
examples of such evolution, by the probability of peripheral gene
flow and by other documentation.
Montagu, of course, had his well publicized innings and was
similarly answered.22 We needed only to note that on October
25, 1963, the Literary Supplement of the London Times in a
special number devoted to the leading scientific books of 1963
referred to The Origin of Races as "a landmark in the development
of the science [of physical anthropology] ." Here, then,
was Exhibit E.


- 55 -

Again comparatively recently, methods had been developed
for measuring the speed of kinesthetic learning from birth to the
first years of life—learning, that is, which involved the transition
from uterine to infant patterns of muscular reflex and control.
This speed seemed to be inversely correlated with the ultimate
complexity to be attained by the cerebral cortex, which supported
the established observation that in all mammalian life
full mental stature develops early in direct relation to cerebral
simplicity. Thus, neonatal kinesthetic development is more rapid
among gorillas than among chimpanzees, and much faster among
chimpanzees than among human infants.
It was consequently logical to assume that differences in the
rate of kinesthetic maturation between human races would have a
bearing upon the complexity or evolutionary status of the structure
of their brains. In 1956 Marcelle Geber made studies of
normal infants in Kampala, Uganda, for the World Health Organization.
She discovered that developmental milestones were
reached several times more rapidly by Negro than by White
infants.23 To my knowledge there had been no attempt to disprove
her findings.24 And so Exhibit F.
A second new science which suggested a difference in evolutionary
grade was the study of the electrophysiology of the
brain. It investigated the living brain by analyzing its wave



- 56 -


emissions, their cerebral location and the brain's electrical responses
to various stimuli.
In 1953 a leading electro-encephalographist, A. C. Mundy-Castle,
published a study of 66 Bantu-speaking African natives
and 72 European Whites. He found five different categories of
difference between the two groups, the most interesting, perhaps,
being the lower response to flicker on the part of the Negroes.
Flickers were created by high-speed electronic stroboscopes.
These synchronized light stimuli were insistent and urgent enough
so that a directing mechanism alerted the entire brain, and the
response given was a measure both of cerebral complexity and
stability.
Nathaniel Weyl pointed out that a null or impoverished response
to flicker implied "a failure of the brain to develop, in
the areas of imagination, visualization and power of conceptual
thought, toward anything approaching maturity."25 Mundy-Castle
summed up his own conclusions as follows: "Our main impression
was that they [the Africans] reacted in a far more simple way
than did the European group."26
To move this evidence into the area of proof would require
further testing and the isolation of possible environmental factors,
but no one could question the suggestiveness of the results or
fail to wonder why a well-financed hierarchy so carefully avoided
the subject. I could regard it as Exhibit G.
One came now to the fields of genetics and psychology. Racial
genetics dealt with the transmission of physical structure from






- 57 -


generation to generation among races. It explored also the
extent to which the effect of physical structure might be modified
by environment. Genetics alone was valueless in a study of
the Negro problem unless one first had established the existence
of anatomical and physiological differences. Thereafter it became
of decisive importance.
Psychology, on the other hand, resembled the material in
Exhibit A. The study of the performance of the mind was not
directly probative of innate differences; it was open in varying
degrees to the challenge of environmental influence, and of course
lent itself readily to the equalitarian technique of chicanery.
But as in Exihibt A, there was a broad suggestiveness about
its findings, and certain data that seemed more than suggestive.
Turning first to genetics, no need existed now-a-days to prove
the inheritance of racial structure. Races by definition were
simply gene pools of distinguishable and distinctive physical
characteristics whose anatomy, insofar as it involved the brain,
produced corresponding mental differences. The same could be
said of the whole nervous system and of the endocrine glands.27
I had already considered the views of a number of geneticists
on this point.28
What remained to make clear was the relative importance
of inherited racial differences as against differences produced by
differing environments. The equalitarian, and his prototype the
social or cultural anthropologist of which Mead and Montagu
were such good examples, argued that while inherited traits
might have some bearing on behavior they were lost in the sea
of cultural influences. This was the core of social anthropology—
man had something no animals possessed, namely, culture, and
through culture he offset inheritance almost completely. But social
anthropologists never asked the question: To what extent had
the culture first been created, and then sustained, by genetic
traits?


- 58 -

Fortunately the answer was available in studies conducted
with identical twins raised apart in radically different environments.
Here the inheritance was the same—only the environment
differed. The results had been published29 and as usual
remained uncontradicted by any scientific counter-facts. Although
the effect varied somewhat with different traits, the over-all influence
of heredity was found to exceed that of environment in
a ratio of about 3 to 1. Certainly this had an important bearing
on the Negro problem and deserved its place as Exhibit H.
The field of psychology had been fought over more than any
other. Yet once one got past the barricade of the exceptional
Negro, which had no relevance to the essential point,30 all the
evidence was again on one side. Audrey Shuey compiled the
results of forty years of research in her book, The Testing of
Negro Intelligence,31 and Dr. Garrett summarized them as follows:
"1. The I.Q.'s of American Negroes are from 15 to 20 points,
on the average, below those of American whites.
"2. Negro overlap of white median I.Q.'s ranges from 10
to 25 per cent—equality would require 50 per cent.
"3. About six times as many whites as Negroes fall in the
'gifted child' category.
"4. About six times as many Negroes as whites fall below
70 I.Q.—that is, in the feeble-minded group.
"5. Negro-white differences in mean test score occur in all
types of mental tests, but the Negro lag is greatest in tests of
an abstract nature—for example, problems involving reasoning,





- 59 -


deduction, comprehension. These are the functions called for in
education above the lowest levels.
"6. Differences between Negro and white children increase
with chronological age, the gap in performance being largest at
the high school and college levels.
"7. Large and significant differences in favor of whites appear
even when socioeconomic factors have been equated."
To take a specific example, a research project32 in 1963 among
Florida Negroes, a project supported by the federal government
and therefore scarcely chargeable to bias against the Negro, was
compared by Dr. Garrett33 with a test of White children run by
Drs. Terman34 and Merrill on a normative sample of the White
child population across the country.
There were 1800 Negroes involved and 3000 Whites. Garrett
did not hesitate to use the country-wide White figures against
the Florida Negro figures in this case because tests taken in the
Southeast among White children disclosed I.Q.'s as high or
higher than the Terman figures.35 Perhaps the improvement of
education in all sections of the United States in the last quarter-century
accounted for the difference (the Terman tests were made
1937), but in any case the comparison could not be held to
be unfair to the Negro:







 IQ Intervals
 White
 Negro
 Rating
 Ratio White to Negro
 130+  4.45.1 Very Superior 44 to 1
120-129 8.2 .3 Superior 27 to 1
110-119 18.1 .7 High Average 26 to 1
100-109 23.5 5.0 Average 4.7 to 1
90-99 23.0 14.0 Average 1.64 to 1
80-89 14.5 28.0 Low Average .5 to 1
70-79 5.6 30.6 Borderline .2 to 1
Below 70 2.6 21.1 Defective .125 to 1
Average IQ 101.8 80.7





- 60 -

Regarding this table Dr. Garrett commented:
"1. The average IQ of the Negro children is 80.7. The average
IQ of the White children is 101.8.
"2. Five per cent of the Negroes achieved IQ's above the
average White child. Conversely, 89 per cent of the White children
achieved IQ's above the average Negro child.
"3. In the High-Average and Superior groups are found 31
per cent of the White children, and 1.1 per cent of the Negro
children.
"4. In the Average or Normal group are 46.5 per cent of
the White children, and 19 per cent of the Negro children.
"5. The Borderline and Defective groups contain 8.2 per cent
of the Whites, and 50.2 per cent of the Negroes.
"6. The average Negro pupil (whose IQ is 80.7) cannot go
beyond a national-standard Seventh grade curriculum; for half
the Negro group, the Fifth grade is the maximum.
"7. Only one per cent of the Negroes are intellectually equipped
(110 IQ and above) to do acceptable college work."
No attempts any longer arose to dispute the facts disclosed
by such studies. The equalitarian response consisted solely of the
old environmentalist argument that the tests reflected a condition
caused by White injustice.
Garrett the year before had had something to say on this
aspect of the matter. At the September 1961 meeting of the
American Psychological Association, the Society for the Psychological
Study of Social Issues had passed the monotonously
typical, undocumented resolution declaring that the evidence developed
over a quarter-century pointed overwhelmingly to the
fact that differences between Whites and Negroes were not
innate. It even went so far as to say that "no evidence exists
that leads to the conclusion that such differences are innate."
Garrett answered this resolution in the American Psychologist
for May of 1962, by a statement relegated as usual to the



- 61 -


Letters section. In it he pointed out that there had been exactly
five cases in which efforts were made to equate as far as possible36
Whites and Negroes for environment—that is, for socio-economic
background—and in every one of these cases the results contradicted
the resolution.
After covering the data37 in some detail Garrett summarized
it as follows: "Negro overlap of white norms when groups are
matched for various educational and socio-economic factors does
not increase markedly as compared with overlap in random
samples. This is true for elementary, high school, and college
groups. Instead of the evidence for diminished differences between
Negroes and whites of comparable status being 'overwhelming'
as the SPSSI statement asserts, it is, in fact, nonexistent."
To any student interested in the balance of the evidence in
this admittedly complicated area, one could recommend a reading
of Garrett's analysis. It was certainly Exhibit I.
Thus we arrived at the last of the categories of evidence—
the area of historical experience. In a sense it was an extension
backward of Exhibit A, a vista of perpetually deficient performance,
but here the hierarchy had developed two contradictory
themes of response.
On the one hand they argued that the Negro had been isolated
by geographical barriers from contact with civilizing influences
and that White groups so isolated did no better than the Negro.
On the other they advanced claims that the Negro had created
magnificent civilizations in Africa, hitherto lost to history but
now being discovered as their ruins were unearthed. One had




- 62 -


no difficulty in demonstrating that both these themes were
specious.
As far as isolation was concerned, I could answer the hierarchy
out of the mouth of one of their own star authorities in anthropology,
A. L. Kroeber, who, in an unguarded moment, wrote:
"All in all, Negro Africa lies open enough to the main Eurasian
centers to have presumably experienced a slow cultural 'bombardment'
that constantly mingled new traits with old, foreign
with acclimated, and acclimated elements with those indigenously
evolved. Through the centuries and millenia, everything got
worked over until it took on the native local color."38 Arab
traders on the sea and Arab caravans overland were in touch
with Africa south of the Sahara since ancient times, and more
recently the period of European colonization occurred.39 None
of this lifted the Negro out of his primitive condition.
As for the collateral argument about isolated and equally
backward White groups, no one denied that White men at
various periods had lived in caves; no one claimed that civilization
blossomed spontaneously from all races at any particular
stage of their development. Little doubt remained that it first
arose in the so-called "fertile crescent" of the Middle East and
spread from there gradually to the rest of the now civilized
world. The point was that the Caucasian and Mongolian races,
whether or not they were living in caves, more often than not
proved responsive tinder to the flame of civilization when brought
in contact with it, whereas the Negro as a race literally never
responded. This did not imply that Caucasians and Mongolians
had always responded. Relict groups existed among both races.
But in the case of the Negro the whole race except for the
occasional individual had always been, and still was, relict.
Regarding the opposite and conflicting argument that the
Negro had developed "magnificent" civilizations now lost, I had
pointed out in Race and Reason that there had been no "magnificent"




- 63 -


Negro kingdoms in Africa in any civilized sense, that
such barbaric cultures as existed were almost certainly intrusive,
that the Moors and Ethiopians were not Negroes, and that the
Nubian dynasty in Egypt was a period of retrogression.40 However,
in recent years efforts had been made by the hierarchy
to glorify the ruins of Zimbabwe in Southern Rhodesia and to
make these now appear to support the "magnificent" kingdoms
claim. A word about them might therefore be justified.
One could see at a glance that the Zimbabwe ruins were large
and brutal in their impact. They were essentially primitive.
While the labor which originally built them was concededly Bantu,
the hierarchy argued that the culture and leadership behind them
were Negro as well. Such, for example, was the view of the
author of the chapter on Zimbabwe in the publication Vanished
Civilizations of the Ancient World,41 priced at $28.50 and published
in 1963. It was the sort of superficially impressive presentation
which the hierarchy could afford to make, and needed
to make, in lieu of facts.
The photographs were excellent—too excellent. All one needed
to do was to compare any of the views of Zimbabwe with pictures
of the Acropolis at Athens, and he no longer cared whether the
complex was indigenous in either labor or inspiration. The contrast
was enough. As Timbuktu produced no Thomas Aquinas,
so Zimbabwe produced no Parthenon.
Those who still wished to carry on the intrusive vs. indigenous
debate could note that in the rubble of Zimbabwe had been found
porcelains of the Ming period. Since the Negro was never known
to engage in maritime trade these porcelains appeared to students
outside the hierarchy to have been brought in by a non-Negro
ruling class.42 The most recent survey of the subject, made by
Dr. Robert Gayre, concluded that "there is absolutely no evidence
at all that Zimbabwe and the other similar sites were built
by the Bantu [Negroes], except as laborers."43



- 64 -

Thus it went throughout Negro Africa. Apparently equalitarian
writers were so self-deluded they could not realize that
their own photographs discredited everything they were trying to
prove. Having failed elsewhere to uncover anything to substantiate
their claim of equality, they now sought in historical ruins
and relics evidence which, when presented, confirmed the opposite
of their case. The facts from history were as Arnold Toynbee
stated them: "It will be seen that when we classify mankind by
colour the only one of the primary races, given by this classification,
which has not made a creative contribution to any one of
our twenty-one civilizations is the Black Race."44
Driven from their conflicting defenses of isolation and lost
ruins, some equalitarians finally retreated to the excuse of climate
and disease, to the argument that tropical maladies and the heat
were enough to account for the Negro's condition. I knew of no
scientists who advanced this argument, but it was frequently
heard from laymen.
Here again one needed only to reply that, on the one hand,
there were many parts of Africa where the climate was good




- 65 -


and, on the other hand, other parts of the world which had produced
great civilizations where the climate was bad. Moreover,
for a hundred years the Negro had been free of both tropical diseases
and the incubus of climate in the old ex-slave settlement at
Chatham, Ontario. Yet his performance there on intelligence
tests followed the standard pattern."45 In fact tropical diseases no
longer could be blamed for the Negro's relative performance in
the Southern United States.
The truth of the matter was that whatever influence climate and
disease may indeed have had upon the Negro over tens of thousands
of years, the result had by now become innate through
evolutionary processes. I could paraphrase Nathaniel Weyl and
state that "the fundamental barrier is less the action of climate
and disease on the living generation than its cumulative action,
over an immense time span, in forming the race."46
So now in ten exhibits the evidence was in from current Negro
performance, from anatomy, histology, physical anthropology,
kinesthetics, electrophysiology, genetics, psychology and history.
Not one of these areas showed any support for the dogma of
innate equality. All of them pointed to inequality, to a difference
in evolutionary grade. Some of the data could be attacked as
insufficient to constitute absolute proof; other materials were
scarcely open to this objection. Taken together, the total must
be conclusive to any reasonable mind.
There were, of course, counter-arguments and sur-rebuttals concerning
specific items that could be raised throughout the materials
and I was prepared to deal with these in due course.47 On
the general situation only two points remained to be emphasized.
One was the falsehood implied in the resolutions of the two
anthropological associations and in the statements of individual





- 66 -


members of the hierarchy. The other point was that in addition
to falsifying the facts as to the balance of the evidence, the hierarchy
was doing everything possible to prevent any knowledge
concerning that evidence reaching the people. All the power of
the educational establishment, all the massive and saturating influences
of a vast Negrophile news and entertainment media, all the
cunning of politicians, all the pleas of the churches, and all the
international tentacles of the United Nations were being ruthlessly
employed to deceive both our youth and the general public.
Against such regiments of darkness could the truth prevail?
It was a sinister question to ask in the darkness and chill of a
night on Mt. Desert Island. Our cottage was very quiet now.
The doors were locked. Should I go on with such a problem at
so late an hour?
Figuratively speaking, the hour was late too. And I remembered
the last recourse we had had, we who could not believe in
the victory of so monstrous a deception. In our Anglo-American
society honest men had always had their final vindication in the
courts. Surely, in spite of the action of the Supreme Court in
1954, this recourse must still be there. The deceit practiced upon
the Court in the desegregation cases was clear enough now—the
misrepresentation of the evidence proffered, and the omission of
all the decisive scientific material. Once this was placed on the
record in a new case, the tide must turn—so we had thought.
And then as I sat there memories of a court-room came surging
back—memories of a May morning in a little Georgia town, the
walk along the quiet street to the courthouse, the attorneys for
the NAACP at the table for counsel, the stifled sobs of Constance
Motley as the heart of the issue was reached.
This folder in my brief case I could hardly touch without a
rising anger. Yet the story it contained, unbelievable as it was,
had to be told.
- 67 -

CHAPTER IV 
 THE DAY IN COURT 
Actually the legal story began long before that morning in
Georgia. It started, together with so much else, in the Boas
web and the many-sided aberrations which it spawned. Some
understanding of its relation to the law was an essential prelude
to the final crisis.
Just as no one supposed before the Boas cult became influential
that there was any question about innate race differences, so
no one in those days suspected the existence of a Negro "right"
to integration in our schools. Indeed the fact that such a right
did not exist had been well established in the courts.1 To the proverbial
man in the street there seemed no more reason to think
that two races as physically different as the White and Negro had
a legal right to mixed schooling than there was to suppose men
had a legal right to use rest rooms for women. Since nothing in
the legal or social climate suggested such a right, the sponsors of
the Negro movement,2 in close alliance with the cult, set themselves
the task of suggesting it. The legal department of the
NAACP was the practical instrument, using the law journals as
well as the courts as "educational forums for molding opinion."3
The first task was to discredit the biological facts, and for this
no better vehicle could have been asked than the rising dogmas of
a "sociology" rooted in the Boas fantasy. As one writer expressed
it in 1945, "the trend of racial theory . . . has been away





- 68 -


from physical concepts and biological processes, through cultural
analysis [the Boas technique], and into a sociological and social-psychological
study of social interrelations."4
No effort was spared to indoctrinate the Supreme Court by a
barrage of articles in law reviews and sociological journals based
on this "trend". Chief Justice Charles Evans Hughes had once
remarked that "in confronting any serious problem, a wide-awake
and careful judge will at once look to see if the subject has been
discussed or the authorities collated and analyzed, in a good law
periodical," and the NAACP saw to it that the new seed was
widely sown in such sources.5
Much of the preliminary work had been done prior to 1954.
For example, in the Covenant Cases (1948) dealing with racial
restrictions in real estate agreements,6 certain of the lower courts
had become so surfeited with environmental briefs by amicus
curiae that in one instance a court of appeals remarked:
"We well recognize that vociferous minorities of our citizens,
instigated by politicians, not statesmen, clamor for judicial denial
of public rights under the guise of public welfare . . .; but, the
courts ought to be and are ever mindful of that basic thought
which underlies representative democracy, 'Give all power to the
many and they will oppress the few, give all power to the few
and they will oppress the many . . .' [A] reservoir of protection
is to be found in our guaranty of constitutional rights, per example,
the right to private contract; and in the hesitancy of the courts
to be swayed by that which is seemingly popular for the moment,
but which finds little or no sound reason or precedent, either in
law or equity."7
Naturally the NAACP did not permit such language to dampen
its zeal, and the pressure arranged and encouraged by it continued






- 69 -


unabated. At one point a poll was taken of organizations that
planned to file amicus curiae briefs to the Supreme Court in the
Covenant Cases and the following responded: the American Jewish
Congress, American Jewish Committee, Protestant Council of
New York City, Japanese American Citizens' League, Anti-Defamation
League (Jewish), American Civil Liberties Union, Negro
Elks, Cengress of Industrial Organizations, Anti-Nazi League,
Board of Home Missions of the Congregational Church, National
Lawyers Guild, American Indian Association and the American
Indian Council. Eventually a total of nineteen briefs were filed,
and the Department of Justice had agreed to appear on the "open
housing" side.
Meanwhile full-length articles were published in The Annals,
Yale Law Journal, University of Chicago Law Review, National
Bar Journal, Architectural Forum, National Lawyers Guild Review,
Journal of Land and Public Utility Economics, and Survey
Graphic.8 Needless to say, the vast majority of both briefs and
articles were saturated with the Boas dogma. Not one word unmasking
the scientific fallacy beneath the whole facade could be
found. Apparently the Whites as well as the Negroes were
already bemused.
On May 3, 1948, a unanimous Supreme Court decided in favor
of the Negroes. The opinion did not mention a single sociological
article. But no one could deny that the work of the NAACP
and its cluster of associated organizations had been decisive. The
foundation for the desegregation cases had been laid. The ghost
of Boas sat on the Supreme Court, put there by "vociferous minorities"
with only the forces of ignorance and intellectual inertia9
in opposition.
The manner in which the ghost now entered the classic Brown10
decision desegregating the public schools was somewhat oblique.
When John W. Davis, counsel for the South in that case and a former





- 70 -


Democratic candidate for the Presidency, learned that the
Supreme Court had based its decision at least in part on sociological
material which had not been introduced in evidence, he was so
stunned it was said to have killed him.11 Courts never rested decisions
on materials which had not been offered in evidence at the
trial because, as to those materials, both sides had not had an
opportunity to be heard. The only exception to this rule were
facts of common knowledge, such, for example, as the fact that
the sun rises in the east. Then a court could take "judicial
notice" of those facts. Apparently the Supreme Court now felt
it could take judicial notice of Boas—in other words Boas had
achieved the status of the rising sun.
But only obliquely. In the Covenant Cases there had been no
reference at all to sociological articles. In the Brown case, in a
footnote to its opinion, the Supreme Court referred to various
sociological tracts and at the end of the note added, "see generally
Myrdal, An American Dilemma." This reference, however
oblique, was an effective way of saying "see generally Boas and
his disciples" for Myrdal's American Dilemma12 was Boas from
beginning to end.
For instance, a characteristic passage from Myrdal, a Swedish
socialist, read: "The last two or three decades have seen a veritable
revolution in scientific thought on the racial characteristics of the
Negro. . . . By inventing and applying ingenious specialized research
methods, the popular race dogma [that races are not by
nature equal in their capacity for civilization] is being victoriously
pursued into every corner and effectively exposed as fallacious or
at least unsubstantiated. . . . It is now becoming difficult for even
popular writers to express other views than the ones of racial
equalitarianism and still retain intellectual respect."13
Neither John W. Davis, nor anyone else for the South, was
given the chance to answer such statements. Clearly enough,
Myrdal's arguments could have been exploded by any informed





- 71 -


cross-examination had he been called to the witness stand.14 Not
only could Myrdal have been answered by evidence which existed
in 1954; as of 1963 he could be discredited completely. I had
already considered the reply to such of his statements as "the
social sciences in America . . . have gone through a conspicuous
development, increasingly giving the preponderance to environment
instead of to hereditary." Freeman, Holzinger, Erlenmeyer-Kimling,
Jarvik, Burt, Howard, Gates and their colleagues would
have something to say on that score.15
But there was another, more serious aspect to the Brown case.
The Supreme Court reached its decision bathed in the ambiance
of Boas but with specific reference to the testimony of the Negroes'
chief witness, Kenneth B. Clark, himself a Negro. The Court in
its opinion leaned heavily upon the damage suffered by Negro
children from segregation, as Clark conceived it—a damage which
the Court said might "affect their hearts and minds in a way unlikely
ever to be undone."
These words from the Court were based on evidence Clark
presented16 which consisted of a series of tests done on Negro
children with dolls. Clark had shown Negro and White dolls to
Negro children in a segregated school and had asked them, first,
"which doll do you prefer?" and next, "which doll looks like
you?" There had been some pitiful moments when, after choosing
a White doll as a preference, a child was asked the second
question and burst into "uncontrollable tears." A staff member
of the NAACP later publicly remarked that "on the surface at
least, Thurgood's [referring to Clark's] black and white dolls won
the case, not the historians."17
But Clark's summation of his evidence was not confined to
pathos. He stated that ten (later in the testimony, nine) out of






- 72 -


sixteen Negro children had picked the White doll as the one that
"looked like you." From this he concluded that "these children
. . . have been definitely harmed in the development of their personalities
. . . My opinion is that a fundamental effect of segregation
is basic confusion in the individuals and their concept about
themselves, conflicting in their self images."
Clark then proceeded to tell the Supreme Court that he had
made previous tests "consistent" with those he entered in the record.
Whether intentional or not, this was the reverse of the fact.
His previous tests were not only not "consistent", they actually
contradicted his testimony before the Court.
They had been made on 134 Negro children in segregated
schools in Arkansas and 119 Negro children in unsegregated nursery
and public schools in Springfield, Mass. The black and white
dolls had been presented and the same questions asked. Clark's
own conclusions on the results had been that ". . . the southern
children in segregated schools are less pronounced in their preference
for the white doll, compared to the northern [unsegregated]
children's definite preference for this doll. Although still in a
minority, a higher percentage of southern children, compared to
northern, prefer to play with the colored doll or think that it is a
'nice' doll."18
That is to say, Clark's previous research, done on a much larger
number of Negro children, indicated that any personality damage
which might be disclosed by his doll tests was not only not caused
by segregation, it was actually reduced by it. Clark had put on a
fantastic performance. In the measured words of a federal judge



- 73 -


in a subsequent case, "I am forced to find that the principal evidence
of injury relied on by the Supreme Court in Brown was
unworthy of belief."19
Thus, apart from the general deception inherent in the propaganda
of the Boas cult, the Court was subjected to specific deception
from its chief witness on a specific and decisive point. It
appeared that "segregation with the sanction of the law" in fact
abated the sense of inferiority which the Court imagined it created,
although nothing could, in the nature of things, change the
limitations themselves—the fundamental point on which the Court
had been deceived.20
The whole situation brought to mind the confession seven years
later of Dr. Alfred H. Kelly, the NAACP staff member already
quoted, who stressed the importance of the dolls but whose function
had been to arrange evidence on the historical question of
whether or not Congress intended the 14th Amendment to require
the desegregation of schools in the District of Columbia.21 Dr.
Kelly, Professor of History at Wayne State University, spoke as
follows in an address to the annual meeting of the American Historical
Association on December 28, 1961: "The problem we faced
was not the historian's discovery of the truth, the whole truth and
nothing but the truth; the problem instead was the formulation of
an adequate gloss on the fateful events of 1866 sufficient to convince
the Court that we had something of a historical case. . .
It is not that we were engaged in formulating lies; there was nothing
as crude and naive as that. But we were using facts, emphasizing
facts, bearing down on facts, sliding off facts, quietly ignoring
facts and above all interpreting facts in a way to do what [Thurgood]
Marshall said we had to do—'get by those boys down





- 74 -


there!' "22 While this might be permitted to the average partisan
in a law case, it was not precisely the attitude expected of a "scientist."
Kenneth Clark, moreover, had attempted something more
than a sliding off the facts in his own effort to "get by the boys".
Altogether the background of the Brown decision seemed so
redolent of fallacy and deceit as to be entirely unacceptable in a
nation dedicated to the honorable traditions of our Anglo-American
jurisprudence. And to those of us connected with the National
Putnam Letters Committee it appeared high time something
was done about it.
Consequently we were gratified to learn in the spring of 1963
that the parents of certain White children in the Savannah-Chatham
County region of Georgia were preparing to intervene in
a court action involving the desegregation of their schools. The
Negroes, represented by the NAACP, were the plaintiffs and were
demanding desegregation, the Savannah-Chatham Board of Education
were the defendants, and the White children were to appear
as intervenors.
This case, to be called Stell vs. the Savannah Board of Education,23 seemed to offer an opportunity to correct the situation
at last. Now it would be possible to expose the fallacies and
supply the deficiencies in Brown. The proponents of the environmental
sociology, the cultural anthropologists, the Montagus, the
Klinebergs, and the Clarks could be cross-examined under oath
on the witness stand. So could the Garretts and the Georges.
Finally, adequate press coverage would permit a beginning in
the education of the public about the facts.
Therefore, on May 8, 1963, the day before the start of the
trial, all of us who were interested in the White children's side,




- 75 -


and in the larger issues involved, proceeded to Brunswick,
Georgia,24 with high hopes. Carter Pittman, George Leonard,
Charles Bloch and Walter Cowart were the attorneys for these
children and established themselves at a motel where they were
joined by Drs. Garrett, George, Osborne, Armstrong and van
den Haag as scientific witnesses. It had been decided that it
would be best not to embarrass Dr. Coon by asking him to enter
the controversy; his position as dean of the world's physical
anthropologists deserved detachment, but material from The Origin
of Races would be sponsored by Dr. George and therefore subject
to cross-examination by the Negroes. I joined the group on the
afternoon of the 8th as an observer.
Attorneys for the Negroes were at another hotel, but we were
advised that they would include both Jack Greenberg and Constance
Motley, a mulatto, each of whom had played a part as
counsel for the NAACP in Brown.25 We did not know as yet
that they would have no scientific witnesses. Had I suspected
this, I might have felt some preliminary apprehension. I might
have wondered if it could be possible that, having succeeded in
shutting out all the vital evidence in Brown, the Negroes expected
to keep it shut out now. Such a policy would require a
surpassing confidence in the partisanship of the Supreme Court
and of the trial and appellate judges. It would have to assume
that ways could be found to avoid reopening a previous decision
reached on the basis of deception and concealment when the
deception was unmasked and the truth revealed. It would also
involve a confession on the part of the Negroes that cross-examination
of the hierarchy under oath was something they dared not
face. Fortunately for our rest that night, none of us foresaw the
future.
May 9th dawned clear and warm—a pleasant, early-summer
day in the Sea Island country. The public benches in the courtroom
were occupied early by both Whites and Negroes but the




- 76 -


press was scantily represented. I did not remember seeing any
correspondent for the New York Times. The swearing-in was
soon over, and the morning spent in the examination and cross-examination
of the Superintendent of Schools regarding the fact
of segregation in Savannah-Chatham County and the problems
that would arise if desegregation occurred. Not until mid-afternoon
did attorneys for the White children open their case
with the calling of Dr. R. T. Osborne as their first scientific
witness.
Dr. Osborne, Professor of Psychology and Director of the
Student Guidance Center at the University of Georgia, established
his qualifications as an expert in the field of educational
testing and personality measurement. Then he proceeded to disclose
the results of studies he had made for the Superintendent
in Chatham County:
Q. [By Mr. Leonard] "What conclusions did you come to in
this study?"
A. "At all levels in the educational program there are differences
in achievement between the white and negro pupils. The
differences are noticeable at the pre-school level and persist
throughout the entire program in the Chatham County Schools
through the 12th grade."
Q. "Are the differences of a particular type only or do they
vary in patterns or according to schools?"
A. "The differences are found in reading, achievement, mathematics,
mental maturity."26
On cross-examination Mrs. Motley, for the NAACP, confined
herself to raising the usual point as to the existence of overlap,
which Dr. Osborne did not deny. Mrs. Motley then suggested that
since there was overlap "these differences you are talking about
don't have anything to do with race," to which Osborne may
be forgiven for answering, "I don't understand the question."
Q. [By Mrs. Motley] "It [the difference] may be the result
of the inferior education in the Negro schools or the Negro
environment, right.

- 77 -

A. "Either one. That's right."
Q. "Then it can't be attributed wholly to race, by your study,
right?"
A. "Not wholly to race."
All this was a somewhat elementary mixture of the fact of
overlap and the relative influence of heredity and environment
which did not affect the point on which Osborne's evidence bore,
and Osborne shortly thereafter was excused.
Counsel for the White children next placed Dr. Garrett on
the stand but before he could do more than qualify himself Mrs.
Motley confronted the Court with a threat intended to cut off
further evidence. This was the tactic we might have expected—
the move to shut out the scientific facts at the source, to prevent
their even getting into the trial record, or reaching the
public, whatever else might happen later.
Mrs. Motley: "Here we go, your Honor. We are going over
the same thing."
The Court: "I will make the same ruling I did on the others.
I am going to hear all of this evidence and you can make your
objections when we get through with the evidence and then I
will hear both sides. . . ."
Mrs. Motley: "Your Honor, I think that what the plaintiffs
[Negroes] are going to have to do is to go to the Fifth Circuit,
or some other court, and get a Writ of Prohibition, or something,
against this kind of testimony."
The Court: "I have already ruled on that. I said that I was
going to hear the testimony, and then after I hear it, then you
raise your objections. . . ."
Mrs. Motley: "It is delaying an adjudication of this case, your
Honor."
The Court: "The adjudication of the case will be delivered
promptly, I will assure you of that, because Judge Tuttle [presiding
judge of the Fifth Circuit] has ordered me to file it by
Monday, but if I can't file it by Monday I am sure he will
understand that I am still in the trial of the case."
Mrs. Motley: "Well, he has already ruled, your Honor, that
this kind of testimony is not going to be considered in any
court. He has tried to make that plain."
The Court: "Well, he is just one Judge, you know."
Mrs. Motley: "Well, I am as sure as I am standing here that


- 78 -


the United States Supreme Court, after three times ruling that
segregation is unconstituional, is not now going to reverse itself
on this man's testimony or any other testimony."
The Court: "Well, let's don't bring it up any more. I have
determined that I am going to hear this evidence, and after the
evidence is concluded if you want to raise an objection at that
time I will hear from you, but I have determined that I am
going to hear this evidence. I have stated that three or four
times. I am going to hear it. I think it is material."

Mrs. Motley: "Then we would like to make this motion ———
The Court: "——— All right."
Mrs. Motley: "The Rules provide, the statute provides that
we can take an appeal by a certificate from this Court to the
Court of Appeals as to whether this kind of evidence is admissible."
The Court: "No, I am not going to do that. You can take it
up in the regular course, if I decide against you. I have not
decided against you yet, but if I decide against you, why, you can
take it by the regular course, but I am not going to certify to
the Court of Appeals of anything."
Mrs. Motley: "Well, the point is we want this question determined
before all of this evidence is put into the record."
The Court: "Well, you seem hard to convince, but I am trying
to convince you that I am going to hear it, and that's that. So,
you may proceed. I don't mean to be discourteous but I said
that to start with, that I was going to hear it all. This is an
important case. It is a novel case. All right, you may proceed."
Of course, it was plain enough that the one thing Motley
dreaded, and what she was beginning to realize might be coming,
was a real examination of all the evidence so long evaded and
suppressed. It was an understandable fear, disclosed under
mounting tension. She subsided for the moment but later in the
course of Dr. Garrett's testimony this exchange occurred:
Mrs. Motley: "Well, your Honor, I would like to say this then:
Judge Tuttle has said that we can renew our motion on Monday
for the appointment of another Judge to hear this case, and on
Monday we plan to do that. We don't plan to appear in Savannah
on Monday. We plan to file that motion in the Fifth Circuit."
The Court: "That's your privilege. However, I think that is
more or less a threat, and let the record show that, but that isn't
bothering me a bit. I am going to do what I think is right,


- 79 -


and I am sure Judge Tuttle will agree with me that is right."
A statement by the Court later in the proceedings disclosed
that Mrs. Motley did apply and was refused.27 The Fifth Circuit
was not prepared to go quite so far so soon.
But to return to the testimony of Dr. Garrett, he proceeded
to present on a national scale evidence of the same nature as
that offered by Dr. Osborne on a local scale, with special emphasis
on those tests which had revealed no appreciable improvement
in Negro performance when socio-economic factors were equated.
The obvious implication that this made the causes of the difference
in performance primarily genetic was again not lost on
Mrs. Motley:
Q. [By Mrs. Motley] "Now, why is there such a tremendous
difference between the overlap in other parts of the country
and Chatham County?"
A. "Well, I can only hazard a guess at that. I think the
southern Negro is mostly rural or agricultural. He is not very
selective. The selective ones probably have gone north. He is
unmixed, generally, and I think a lot of those factors come in."
Q. "So, it doesn't have to do with race, necessarily, does it,
just environment?"
A. "I think it has to do with environment. It has to do
with race, too."
Q. "Well, what does [intelligence] quotient have to do with
race?"
A. "Because the difference is one where the race is concerned,
and if you make studies of the performance of the Negro child
—it was found in a study of 8,000 children in Chicago not
long ago, and they were able to find 103 children, Negro
children, with intelligence quotients above 120, that is very
bright. Now, they had to look through 8,000 to get them, and
in a comparable group of 8,000 white children you would
get 800 with I.Q.'s above 120 which, to me, shows that the
incidence of high intelligence is about 7-8 to 1."
Q. "What about the 103 Negroes that do?"
A. "80% of them are mixed blood."
Q. "How do you know that?"
A. "They said so. I don't know whether they knew it or not,
but that's what they said."

- 80 -

Q. "Who said it?"
A. "The children, or their parents. It's reported in the report."
Q. "Now, this 2% [overlap] in Savannah, Chatham County,
Georgia, would you be in favor of putting them in the white
schools?"
A. "No."
Q. "That's what I thought."
A. "Do you know why? You didn't ask me why."
Q. "I think that's obvious."
A. "Because I think they would be miserable and I'm a
friend of the children. I don't want to put them in there and
hurt them."
Q. Did you ask them whether they would be miserable or not?"
A. "No, and you didn't either."28
This completed the Negro cross-examination of Garrett. His
testimony had carried the trial into its second day. During the
intervening night the usual strenuous conferences and preparations
had occurred. No one was sure whether members of the
hierarchy were going to appear for the Negroes, but we now
began to suspect that they would not—that the NAACP had
more confidence in the appellate courts deciding in their favor
against all the evidence than they did in the hierarchy surviving
cross-examination. It was a contemptuous reliance on an extraordinary
coalition.
Early in the proceedings next morning after Dr. Garrett stepped
down, George Leonard called to the stand Dr. Clairette Armstrong
who had been for two years Professional Chief Psychologist
at Bellevue Hospital in New York City. She had run various
tests on truancy in the New York schools and testified to the effect
of school frustration on runaways. One-third of Negro truants,
she had found, were truants by their own admisison because of
inability to maintain the standard in integrated classes. In
cross-examination Mrs. Motley continued her attack:
Q. [By Mrs. Motley] "Well, let me ask you this: Is it your
testimony that Negro children in Chatham County, Georgia,



- 81 -


should not be admitted to schools with white children because
Negroes are inherently inferior?"
A. "Well, the results show that they can't keep up with the
averages of the Whites, don't they?"
Q. "That's right, but what's the reason for that?"
A. "I am strongly on the organic side. I think it's an innate,
intrinsic ability. Of course, if they were brought up in a vacuum,
even the bright ones wouldn't succeed either, but in an average
school situation the bright ones show their metal as a rule. . . ."
Q. "Do you think the Negroes are innately inferior to whites,
is that your testimony?"
A. "There is a spread, of course, from lowest to highest,
but the averages, on the averages, the means are different, so that
from my own experience, I would say that it is an inferiority."
Q. "And on what do you base your conclusion that this is
due to race?"
A. "The mere fact that it occurs in all the literature and
all the statistical studies, in all research, and in my own experience."
Q. "Now, have you made any tests yourself which would
show conclusively that this is race alone?"
A. "I just said 'yes.' I would say it is race. There is nothing
else that you can attribute it to. The study of 400 delinquent
boys that I have quoted, 200 black and 200 whites, or 200
Negroes, 200 whites, have shown it right through scholastically,
intelligence, and so forth."
Such was the substance of the Negro cross-examination of
Dr. Armstrong on that second, decisive morning. She was
excused and a few minutes' recess taken. The crowd in the
public benches rose to stretch their legs in the corridors.
I paced the corridors, too, with a sense of approaching climax.
The next witness would be Dr. George and, to me at least,
this was the crux of the case. In the testimony so far, through
the psychology witnesses, everything had been done that could
be done in the nature of that subject to refute the Boas dogma.
Dr. Garrett had even invaded the field of genetics, citing the
Newman-Holzinger study and the study of Sir Cyril Burt with
their evidence on the preponderant influence of heredity over
environment. But no amount of testimony from these sources
could equal in finality an examination of anatomical structure.


- 82 -


This was the substance of inheritance, a disclosure of just what
it was the Negro inherited.
Obviously Mrs. Motley must realize this, and I anticipated
that now, if ever, she would be on the warpath—except for one
thing. Our case was ironclad, and if she touched it the strength
of our position could only be enhanced. This area did not lend
itself to any possible conflict of interpretation. Nor was the court
a forum for slippery evasions and diversions. The chicanery of
the hierarchy would be useless here; so would the undocumented
assertions, and the political bombast. All that really remained
for Motley now was silence and an implicit faith in her unique
alliance.
At last the recess ended and Dr. George took the stand. At
the table for counsel for the Negroes, I sensed a certain restlessness.
George identified himself and established his qualifications
without interruption. Motley was holding her fire.
Next George proceeded, step by step, to survey the relationship
between brain weight, body size and intelligence throughout
the animal kingdom. He discussed the importance of the prefrontal
areas of the brain—"in the porpoise and that group of
aquatic mammals the evolutionary increase of brain size is in the
sensory lobes, not in the frontal lobes."
Then, still without interruption, he examined the authorities
on the function of the pre-frontal areas in man:
Q. [By Mr. Pittman] "What are the higher mental processes,
so regarded among scientists?"
A. "Well, would you let me read?"
Q. "Yes, sir, anything with which you agree."
A. "Well, I read recently through my interest in this matter
to see what the latest studies by competent neurologists had to
say about this. This is a statement from the textbook, 'The
Neuro-anatomical Basis for Clinical Neurology,' published in
1961, by Talmadge Peele, who is Neurologist at Duke Medical
School. It is the pre-frontal portion of the frontal lobes which
are primarily concerned with these higher mental activities according
to the evidence that we have. He says: 'The pre-frontal
portion of the frontal lobes, while contributing to the elaborateness
of movement, bestows upon an individual an ability to plan


- 83 -


and to look ahead, a capacity for perceiving a stimulus or problem,
not only as an event of the present, but in relation to
past experience and anticipation of future possibilities and the
ability to maintain a steadfastness of purpose in the face of
distractions and an ability to adjust himself agreeably to his
neighbors and to control his emotional reactions.' Now, there
is Peele's statement, which answers your question and I accept it
as mine."
Next George surveyed the findings of Vint and others on the
relative weight and structure of White and Negro brains, amid
total silence. Perhaps I should say there was silence except for
one sound. I was distressed to realize that Constance Motley
was weeping audibly.
Q. "Doctor, I will ask you whether or not these differences
in brain structures are inherited or are they the result of environment?"
A. "Well, in my mind, there is no doubt that they are inherited."
Q. "Can those differences, in your opinion, be modified by
environment?"
A. "To a minimal degree."
Q. "Over what period of time?"
A. "Well, I think that it's possible in the course of a lifetime.
Our experiences, of course, affect our brains to some extent. But
to increase the inherited basis would require, perhaps, a hundred
thousand years to allow time for the concurrences of mutations
and the survival of beneficial mutations. We all have brains which
we subject to experience and to education and it is reasonable
to suppose that education and experience influence to some extent
the structures of the brain, but there is no evidence that it
increases its mass in any significant degree."
Pittman and George were proceeding methodically through
the evidence in spite of the tension in the courtroom. They
covered the principal authorities, including Coon.
Q. "Now, Doctor, are you familiar with the writings, or some
of the writings, of Dr. Carleton Coon?"
A. "Yes, I have read his Origin of Races with a great interest
. . ."
Q. "If I may, Doctor, I will read to you an excerpt from pages
115 and 116 . . . and after reading it I will ask you if you
agree with him."
- 84 -

A. "All right."
Q. " 'Human beings also vary in temperament. It is a common
observation among anthropologists who have worked in many
parts of the world in intimate contact with people of differences
—people of different races—that racial differences in temperament
also exist and can be predicted. Races also differ in the
size and weight of endocrine glands, and in the substances carried
in the urine. The study of these variations has just begun, and
many readers who believe in the current dogma that all behavioral
differences are due to man's unique capacity for learning will
find this unpalatable, but the burden of proof is on them. If
such differences are not related to the endocrine system, then
man is indeed a unique animal.' Do you agree with that statement,
Doctor?"
A. "I think that is very fundamentally sound, yes."
There could be no turning back now; the examination continued
ruthlessly, methodically, with a cumulative impact.
Q. "Doctor, I would like to call your attention to a statement
by Dr. James H. Sequeira, which appeared in the March
1932 issue of The British Medical Journal, and ask if you agree
with that? . . . Are you familiar with Dr. Sequeira's writing?"
A. "Yes, I have read it in the Journal."
Q. "I will read, now, a portion: 'The average cranial capacity
of the European is 1,490 c.cm, while that of the East African
is only 1,310 c.cm. The average weight of the brains is set out
in the following table:



 Caucasoid (meaning white)  1,380 grams.
 East African 1,280 grams.
 Negroid  1,240 grams.
 Australoid  1,180 grams.

"Do you agree with those findings by Dr. Sequeira?"
A. "Yes, I do, give or take a few grams here and there,
they have been confirmed by many other studies."
Q. "In that same article, Doctor, . . . I will read this to you;
Sequeira says that, according to his findings and that of Dr.
Vint's observations, the frontal cortex may be summarized as
follows:
'The infragranular layer, East African 106. European 100.
The granular layer, East African, 98.7. European 100. The
supragranular layer East Africa 92. European 100.' Does that,
Doctor, in your opinion, correctly state the difference in measurements

- 85 -


of the frontal cortex between the East African and
the European according to your studies?"
A. "That is the correct statement that Vint made, and I
can only accept his statement, and I have no reason to consider
it wrong."29
Q. "I continue one further paragraph: 'The infra-granular
layer is held to be the seat of the representation—the physical
basis—of the animal instincts, reproduction, self-preservation,
etc., the granular layer that of the perception of sensations; while
the supra-granular layer is concerned with will, intellect, control,
etc. The two latter may be looked upon as the physical basis
of mind. In the East African, therefore, animal instincts are
provided with 6 per cent more physical basis than in the European,
but the physical basis of "mind" shows a preponderance
in favor of the European of 9.3 per cent.' Now, do you agree
with that statement?"
A. "Yes, I do."
So it went on through all the biological evidence. Motley
controlled herself in time, but there were no challenges whatever
from the NAACP. Nor was one word of cross-examination
attempted. At the conclusion of Dr. George's testimony the
Transcript read:
Mr. Pittman: "That's all, Doctor."
The Court: "Any questions?"
Mrs. Motley: "No questions, your Honor."
The Court: "Any questions from the Savannah people [the
School Board]?"
Mr. Leverett. "No."
The Court: "All right, Doctor. You may step down . . .
Thus into the record under oath, unchallenged and uncontradicted
either by counsel or by opposing witnesses, went the
heart of the Stell case—damning in its indictment of the scientific



- 86 -


hierarchy, a stripping-off of decades of deceit and chicanery
at the core of public policy, an immediate levy upon the honor
of the higher courts.
Anything further in the courtroom now could only be anticlimax.
- 87 -








CHAPTER V 
 DECISIONS—ON AND OFF THE RECORD 
Anti-climax though it seemed to me who had been preoccupied
with the central issue, what followed at Brunswick nevertheless
had a vital bearing on two collateral points which were constantly
arising in the Negro controversy.
The White children's last witness was Dr. Ernest van den
Haag, the New York University professor who had unmasked
Kenneth Clark. Following Dr. George on the afternoon of May
10 he testified at length concerning the effect upon the exceptional
Negro of transfer to integrated schools.
This, the overlap problem, was one of the second lines of
defense to which the liberal habitually retreated after defeat
on the biological issues, and van den Haag dealt with it exhaustively.
He developed the subject of group identification from a
psychological standpoint, remarking that "although . . . a superior
pupil might possibly identify with other superior pupils
of a different group, as a matter of fact, in my experience, the
pupil retains his identification with his own group. This identification
may lead to certain psychological consequences. . . ."
The point involved, of course, was the integrationists' argument
that segregation, whatever might be said for it in the
case of the average Negro, was unfair to the superior Negro—
that he, at any rate, was entitled to schooling among his White
peers. Van den Haag offered material concerning the effect
upon all Negroes of forced disassociation from their own group
and forced integration with a basically different group, a subject
which was to be further developed in companion cases to Stell.1
Again no significant cross-examination occurred. But in the
course of what little there was, a point arose which brought the



- 88 -

Stell case into sharp focus. Several times during the trial, counsel
for the Negroes had fallen back on what I might call a subdivision
of the undocumented-assertion technique of the hierarchy.
It consisted in asking: "Isn't yours the minority view?"
It was a form of the one-man-one-vote concept gone berserk and
it fitted well into socialism's regimentation philosophy. So I was
gratified when van den Haag, too, faced the question and
answered it as follows:
Q. "Well, let me ask you this, Doctor: Does your position,
as you have testified to here today, does that reflect the majority
opinion or the minority opinion?
A. " . . . If you will permit me, I will have to tell you
that I have not counted heads on the matter, and the reason
I have not counted heads is that it has never appeared to me
that scientific questions are decided by a vote, and I know of
no one who would today agree to that.
"Let me suggest that when Galileo decided that the earth
moves around the sun the majority opinion at that time decided
or insisted that the sun moves around the earth, but Galileo
was right, though he was a minority of one, and so should I
find myself in this minority of one I would not regret it. I have
not established what the size of the group is that shares my
views or what the size of the group is that holds different
views. . . . I don't know whether they amount to the majority,
but certainly they include a great number of distinguished men.
"However, their behavior and my personal contact with them
has not convinced me that they have taken their positions on the
basis of what they themselves would normally consider as evidence
[emphasis added] and it has also convinced me that they feel
sort of a moral duty, right or wrong, to take this position,
and feel apparently that to take this position that they are
considerably morally better and justifies ignoring and sometimes
tailoring scientific evidence."
The matter could hardly have been more tactfully stated. In
these words van den Haag drew a thumbnail sketch of a world-wide
condition. And he confirmed a prescription for the hypnosis
of millions: Indoctrinate a controlling group of scientists in a
politically oriented, environmentalist dogma over a period of
two generations; make a moral issue out of something immoral;
persecute and suppress any dissenters; infiltrate the mass media,


- 89 -


and finally persuade the courts by introducing only falsified
evidence. Thereafter rely solely, in those courts, on the "majority"
view. Never again permit the truth to come to light if you
can help it. Thus before my eyes at this trial had unrolled the
pattern I had found everywhere else in our national life in almost
exact duplication.
The testimony on May 10th virtually ended the trial. There
were a few remaining technicalities which were handled at a
sitting of the Court at Savannah on May 13, but I did not remain
for these. I went home to await the decision.
On June 28 the Court announced its opinion and judgment,
together with certain findings, the chief of which were:
"5. The psychometric test results have conclusively demonstrated
that the differences between white and negro students
in learning capabilities and school performance vary in increasing
degree from the pre-school period through the completion of high
school. The differences between white and negro students were
consistent on all types of tests and increased with chronological
age at a predictable and constant rate. The negro overlap of
the median white scores dropped from approximately 15% in
the lowest grades to 1-2% in the highest and indicated that
the negro group reached an educational plateau as much as
four years before the white group. When a special control
group was selected for identity of age and intelligence quotient
in the lower grades, the negro students lagged by two to four
years when the entire group reached the 12th grade.
"6. The tests covered general intelligence, reading and arithmetic
achievement, and mental maturity. On the last, the white
average was 22 points above the negro average. The achievement
tests showed major ability pattern differences. On reading
comprehension and arithmetic fundamentals there was virtually
no overlap between the two groups. . . .
"8. All the evidence before the Court was to the effect that
the differences in tests results between the white and negro
students is attributable in large part to hereditary factors, predictably
resulting from a difference in the races. The evidence
establishes and the Court so finds that of the twenty-point
difference in maturity test results between negro and white students
in Savannah-Chatham County a negligible portion can be attributed
to environmental factors. Furthermore no evidence whatsoever


- 90 -


was offered to this Court to show that racial integration
of the schools could reduce these differences. Substantially all
the difference between these two groups of children is inherent in
the individuals and must be dealt with by the defendants [the
School Board] as an unchangeable factor in programming the
schools for the best educational results."
So much for the basic facts. Then the Court turned to a
related matter:
"11. The congregation of two substantial and identifiable groups
in a single classroom, under circumstances of distinct group identification
and varying abilities would lead to conflict impairing
the educational process. It is essential for an individual to
identify himself with a reference group for healthy personality
development. Physical and psychological differences are the
common basis of group identification, indeed they compel such
self-identification. To increase this divisive tendency, it has been
established without contradiction, that selective association is a
universal human trait; that physically observable racial differences
form the basis for preferential association and that patterns of
racial preference are formed and firmly established at a preschool
age.
"12. The effects of intergroup association are reasonably predictable
on the basis of that branch of psychology known as social
dynamics. In the case of two identifiable groups in the same
classroom, intergroup tensions and conflicts result. These become
substantial when the groups have a high identification index in a
situation where the difference between them is as great as that
existing between white and negro children in the Savannah-Chatham
County schools."
Finally the Court came to the question of the exceptional
Negro:
"15. Throughout the trial, counsel for plaintiffs emphasized
the conceded ability of certain superior negro children to meet
the progress norms of the white classes and implied that at
least selective transfers of such students to white schools would
not cause injury similar to the effects of group integration. The
Court finds that such selective integration would cause even
greater psychological harm to the individual negro children
involved and to the balance of their group.
"16. Negro children so transferred would not only lose their


- 91 -


right of achievement in their own group but would move to a
class where they would be inescapably conscious of total social
rejection by the dominant group. Such children must try to
identify themselves with the white children while unable to free
themselves from continuing identification with other negro children.
Additionally, the children involved, while able to maintain
the rate of the white class at first, would, according to all of
the test results, thereafter tend to fall further back in each succeeding
term.
"17. The effects on the remaining negro children would be
even more injurious. The loss of the better group members
would greatly increase any existing sense of inferiority. The competitive
drive to educational accomplishment for those not transferred
would be taken away. The Court finds that selective integration
would cause substantial and irremovable psychological
injury both to the individual transferee and to other negro
children."
In view of these and other findings, the Court not unreasonably
rendered judgment in favor of the White children; perhaps
it would be more accurate to say in favor of all the children.
The injunction prayed for by the NAACP was denied and their
complaint dismissed.
I could also add parenthetically that no meaningful discussion
of the case occurred in any newspaper of national influence.2
The Opinion and Judgment dropped into a deep well of silence.
So now nothing remained but to await the NAACP appeal to
the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals. A hearing before that court
was held on April 9, 1964, in Atlanta. I was not present, but
some who were informed me that the smouldering anger of
certain of the judges was ill-concealed. I could guess that it was
the kind of anger often characteristic of men faced with a moral
challenge beyond their capacity to meet.
Then on June 18 came their decision. It reversed the trial
court, ignoring the evidence entirely. First they said: "We reiterate
that no inferior federal court may refrain from acting as required
by that decision [the decision of the Supreme Court in Brown]



- 92 -


even if such a court should conclude that the Supreme Court
erred either as to its facts or as to the law." Thus they transferred
all responsibility concerning the evidence to the Supreme
Court. But they could not resist the following characteristic
aside on the subject of overlap:
"The real fallacy, Constitution-wise, of the classification theory
is that many of the Negro pupils overlap many of the white
pupils in achievement and aptitude but are nevertheless to be
segregated on the basis of race. They are to be separated, regardless
of how great their ability as individuals, into schools
with members of their own race because of the difference in
test averages as between the races. Therein is the discrimination.
The individual Negro student is not to be treated as an individual
and allowed to proceed along with other individuals on
the basis of ability alone without regard to race."
All too obviously the Court here was ignoring Dr. van den
Haag's testimony on this precise point and the findings upon
it of the Court below. It looked suspiciously, to counsel and
to me, as if the Court had not even read them. But what was
worse, it here gave as one reason for its decision a concept
which, if generally applied, would disrupt our society. It was in
effect holding unconstitutional any law which disadvantaged
any individual belonging to a group whose average performance
justified that law.
For example, state statutes limiting working hours for women
in factories had been held constitutional because the average
woman was not as strong as the average man, and in spite of
the fact that certain women were stronger than many men. Would
the Fifth Circuit in such a case now paraphrase its racial holding
to read: "The real fallacy, Constitution-wise, of the classification
theory is that many women overlap many men in strength but
are nevertheless to be segregated on the basis of sex. They are
to be forbidden to work, regardless of how great their strength
as individuals or their financial need, because of the difference
in the average endurance of the two sexes."
Or one could take the case of the exceptional minor who was
not allowed to vote, drive a car or marry simply because the


- 93 -


average minor was not considered wise, or experienced, or
mature enough to do these things. Certainly many minors had
better judgment, more experience and more intelligence than
many adults. Would the Fifth Circuit now paraphrase themselves
and say: "The real fallacy, Constitution-wise, of the classification
theory is that many minors overlap many adults in judgment
and intelligence but are nevertheless to be segregated on the
basis of age. They are to be denied the right to vote, to drive
and to marry regardless of how great their judgment and intelligence
as individuals, because of the limitations of the average
minor. Therein is the discrimination. The individual minor is
not to be treated as an individual and allowed to proceed along
with other individuals on the basis of ability alone without
regard to age."
Restating these situations in the Fifth Circuit's own words
seemed to make the invalidity of their reasoning sufficiently
clear. It would be disastrous to compel society to accept the
burden of the average child at the voting booth or automobile
license bureau in order to satisfy the exceptional child, and it
was proving equally disastrous to accept the average Negro in
White schools in order to satisfy the exceptional Negro. To
damage a whole society with torrents of injurious influences in
order to accommodate the exceptional few was something new
even to socialism.
In fact in reading the opinion of the Fifth Circuit Court of
Appeals I had to pinch myself to believe I was not dreaming.
I seemed to be wandering in some sort of judicial Alice in
Wonderland. But the last straw, say rather the last blow, was
yet to come. The White children took the reversal by the Fifth
Circuit to the Supreme Court by a petition for a writ of certiorari,
and the long wait for its final ruling started.
Six months later it came. I remembered well the afternoon
it was expected. I was in telephone communication with Leonard.
We waited hardly knowing whether to hope or despair. What
possible reason could the Supreme Court give for ignoring
decisive and uncontradicted evidence with a fundamental bearing


- 94 -


upon both a nation's domestic welfare and a total world
situation?
The least the Court could do, we thought, would be to remand
the case to the trial court for a rehearing in which the NAACP
would be required to put the hierarchy on the witness stand. In
that way the entire subject could be even more glaringly exposed.
It hardly seemed proper to ask: did the Supreme Court dare?
How could it possibly do otherwise when to fail would have such
shattering implications?
Not only were Leonard and I waiting for the ruling. The
attorneys general of seven states had filed a petition with the
Court asking that certiorari be granted. Besides this, during the
interval since the decision in the Fifth Circuit, the trial court in
Evers,3 acting on even more complete evidence than had been
offered in Stell, had closed its opinion with the following paragraph:
"In the opinion of this Court, the facts in this case point
up a most serious situation, and, indeed, 'cry out' for a reappraisal
and complete reconsideration of the findings and conclusions
of the United States Supreme Court in the Brown decision,
as interpreted by the United States Court of Appeals for the
Fifth Circuit. Accordingly, this Court respectfully urges a complete
reconsideration of the decision in the Brown case."
Suddenly my telephone rang. I picked up the receiver and
heard Leonard's voice. The news from the Supreme Court had
just come in. Certiorari in Stell was denied. There was no explanation,
no comment. There would be no rehearing, no further
proceedings.
Stell had dropped into a deeper chasm than any well of silence.
The appeal to truth, the levy upon honor, had failed.

- 95 -

CHAPTER VI 
 POINT COUNTER-POINT 
Mechanically I replaced my legal folder in my brief case. For
the moment the memories and the anger made me forget the
detachment of Seal Harbor. In that folder was something from
which none of us who had any part in it could ever again be
detached.
The clock in the hall struck three. I turned wearily from my
desk and started for bed, but half way to the door I paused.
I could not shake off the haunting need to find a key—an
explanation of the nightmare.
In my brief case was one last folder, one which I sometimes
called my nest of needles. It contained, among other things, a
variety of questions, usually but not always hostile, that
had reached me in the course of the years since Race and Reason
was published. Many had come by mail, although probably
the majority were gleaned from question-and-answer sessions
following speeches I had made at various universities. One group
I remembered by rote because they arose so often in social situations
among liberals in the nation's capital where I lived.
Taken as a whole, these questions covered a wide range of
issues related but somewhat peripheral to the main thread of
my evening's meditations. They represented in most cases the
reactions, the confusions, and the doubts of a bewildered public.
Some were obvious attempts to evade reality. But all in one
way or another were provocative. Possibly from a consideration
of these might emerge an answer to the broader question
I was asking myself.
So out from the nest came the needles, and I attempted to
arrange them, together with my replies, in some logical order:
Your activities acerbate the situation. Why don't you offer
a solution instead of increasing tensions?
- 96 -

No permanent solution to any problem was ever found without
going to the heart of it. The heart of the Negro problem lies
in establishing the correct answer to one question, namely, are
the Negro's limitations the result of his bad environment or
is his bad environment the result of his limitations? Can we,
by making every effort to improve the Negro's surroundings and
education, reach the root cause of his comparative performance,
or is it a matter of innate racial differences?
Every public policy concerning race will be decided differently
depending on the answer given to that question. Obviously it
will, as regards education. Can you not see that it also will, as
regards housing, slum clearance, and job opportunities? And
what about foreign policy? What about the administration of
aid to under-developed countries, what about giving "freedom"
to African Negroes? Is it not clear that in all of these vital
areas, if the answer is environment, policies will be the direct
opposite of what they will be if the answer is genetics?
Now consider our present predicament. We are forming every
one of our programs on the environmental hypothesis, in spite
of the fact that all the evidence is to the effect that this hypothesis
is wrong. What, then, can be more imporant than correcting
the hypothesis and starting to form policies on reality instead
of on illusion? There is no other road to a solution. What you
are seeking are not solutions. You are really looking for sleeping
pills.
Yours is a gospel of hate. You must be tired of controversy
and bitterness. Why not try love for a change?
I never hated anything in my life except two things: dishonesty
and the appeasement of evil. These I hate with every fiber of
my being. I would rather face controversy and bitterness indefinitely
than surrender to either one.
Let me also point out that among hard-core leftists and race
agitators (as distinguished from bemused humanitarians) the
real source of hatred is envy, and you know on which side it
originates.
- 97 -

If we can't believe the scientists on race differences, who can
we believe?
It is not a question of disbelieving scientists in general. It
is a question of disbelieving the current scientific hierarchy,
examining the statements of its members critically, noting their
political, non-scientific nature and their lack of documentation,
observing their constant avoidance of the actual evidence, and
then of turning to other scientists who present such evidence.
No intelligent person who does this in the context of our times
can come to any conclusion other than that the hierarchy is
deceiving the public for political purposes. The situation is so
plain it is almost ludicrous. Unfortunately it does take a little
reading and comparing, some ability to resist accepting the most
publicized view one hears.
 ANTHROPOLOGY 
You cited a UNESCO study to substantiate that Negroes
mature earlier than Whites. Please re-study the finding of this
work. The reasons for early maturation of the Negro were due
to climatic differences of their environment and not for biological
reasons. Negroes in the same climate as the Whites mature at
the same rate.
This question confuses the age of sexual maturation with a
kinesthetic maturation process during the first months of life.
The difference between White and Negro kinesthetic maturation
is not due to climate since (1) Kampala, Uganda, where the
tests were made is 2500 feet above sea level and (2) in their
1957 paper Geber and Dean8 studied 15 European babies and
60 Indian babies in the same environment as the African babies.
The European and Indian babies gave the same results as had
been found in Europe.
Psychological tests of a child's "I.Q." at an early age measure
motor ability and advanced motor ability is not considered

- 98 -

indicative of low I.Q. In fact, the correlation between motor
ability at an early age and mental I.Q. at a late one is so
low as to be considered not significant. Which facts—yours or
mine—are right?
I have stated my sources; you do not state yours. Geber found
a significantly faster kinesthetic maturation rate in Negro infants
than in White infants.2 Almost all investigators have found a
significantly lower I.Q. on the average among older Negroes than
among older Whites. It is likewise well known that rapid maturation
of the neuromuscular system is characteristic of the lower
animals. What kind of correlation does this suggest to you?
The subject may be worth a brief background examination. We
have in man and the higher animals two neural pathways that control
our coordinated motor functions. These two systems are the
pyramidal and the extrapyramidal. They have a considerable degree
of independence structurally and functionally but they have
interconnections and they collaborate in executing our mature complex
motor functions.
The extrapyramidal system is the old motor system. It is composed
largely of cells located in deep gray matter of the cerebral
hemispheres. They have some connections with the cortex. This
deep gray matter of the corpus striatum (unusually highly developed
in birds) presides over production and control of instinctive
and some other automatic movements.
The pyramidal system is our new motor system. The cells of
origin of its transmission fibers are located in the cortex, and impulses
pass directly to effector nerve cells that stimulate muscle
fibers. The function of the pyramidal system is to originate and
transmit impulses that arise in the realm of awareness and produce
precise voluntary movements. Not only is this the last
motor system to arise in the evolutionary process, it is the last to
mature in individual life.
In lower forms the extrapyramidal motor system is dominant
and quite effective, but as it has evolved in the evolutionary series



- 99 -


of vertebrates this system has lost some of its independent efficiency.
In man the pyramidal system is dominant, although coordination
with the old extrapyramidal system seems necessary for
effective action. In the human newborn the pyramidal system is
immature and has not yet come into effective function; at the same
time the extrapyramidal system has become subordinate in some
degree to the pyramidal system. Hence, the perfection of many
motor functions must await the maturation of the pyramidal
system.
The facts presented by Geber and Dean suggest a greater retention
in African babies of the primitive independence of the extrapyramidal
system. This could account for the motor precosity of
Negro babies. There is evidence for the hypothesis that the more
primitive, greater independence of the extrapyramidal system of
Africans is associated with a more primitive condition of the cortex.
In addition to the now widely known observations of Vint
on the supragranular layers, van Noort found the cellular structure
of some regions of the cortex to present a different appearance
in the Caucasian and Negro races.3 I stated that this is one
of the areas where the balance of the evidence has to be considered.
I do not say in this case the data is conclusive. I say it is
suggestive.
As to early intelligence tests, Dr. Geber, using Gesell Development
Quotients, found distinct superiority among Negro children
until the third year, thereafter distinct inferiority. These tests
measure more complex muscular performance and probably combine
simple reflexes with much more complex, cerebrally learned
behavior.
Assuming for the moment that you are correct re: the racial
inferiority of the Negro, why is it necessary to believe that intermarriage

- 100 -

would necessarily lower the quality of human beings
produced and thus the quality of American civilization? That is,
why assume that Negro inferior traits are dominant? Why not
assume, as the human evolutionary process suggests, that superior
traits are dominant, and thus intermarriage would have the effect
of raising the total quality of American civilization?
It is not necessary to believe every mixed mating would lower
the quality of human being produced. If a Negro of superior
genetic quality were to interbreed with a genetically poor White
their offspring might be superior to the poor White parent.4
However, we are not confronted with exceptional individuals
only. We are confronted with twenty million Negroes. Scientific
evidence and practical experience regarding the intelligence
of large unselected groups, and their creative achievements, show
that Negroes as a group, in this country and across the world, have
appreciably lower average intelligence scores and a vastly lower
creative record throughout history. If we absorb twenty million
largely uncreative Negroes into our White gene pool, the mixed
product may be expected to lack the combination of qualities (insight,
foresight, intelligence and drive) necessary to maintain and
advance American civilization.
Traits may be desirable or undesirable; also they may be dominant
or recessive. We cannot rely upon undesirable traits being
recessive or desirable traits being dominant. Achondroplastic
dwarfism is undesirable and dominant. Undesirable traits are
frequently dominant.
It is of course true that natural selection tends to eliminate those
traits which are biologically disadvantageous in a particular environment.
This, however, is a factor which has little chance to
operate in a society subsidizing the poor.
How could the Negro have evolved from Homo erectus 30,000
years ago, when no fossils of this type younger than 200,000
years old are known?

- 101 -

Your facts are incorrect. A Negroid Homo erectus specimen
dated about 30,000 years ago was found at Broken Hill, Northern
Rhodesia, in 1921.5 There is a fairly good continuity of erectus
and sapiens skeletons in Africa. The oldest sapiens skulls found
there appear to be a set of four which Leakey excavated in Kenya
in 1932; their exact age is controversial but they are probably in
the general range of the Broken Hill specimen.
The Eskimo has a larger brain than the White man. This disproves
the importance of brain size as a measure of racial intelligence.
Comment?
How does it disprove it? In the first place, you supply no
data on the "other-things-being-equal" aspect of this case. You
offer no study of the relative sulcification or proportion of parts
of the Eskimo brain.
Nor have you provided evidence on the relative intelligence of
the Eskimo, relying entirely, it would seem, on the Eskimo's primitive
culture. However, the Eskimo's adaptation to his environment
is remarkable. He invented the skin boat, the dome and
the best cold-proof clothes in the world. He is regarded by the
Air Force on the DEW line as an excellent mechanic.
Possibly the Eskimo has failed to build a civilization because of
the rigors of his surroundings. The Eskimo belongs to the
Mongoloid race. This race had produced great cultures in the
Orient. Some substocks of the Mongoloid once produced great
cultures in Central and South America. Others like the North
American Indians failed to do so. The point is that both the
Caucasoid and Mongoloid races have produced advanced civilizations,
in spite of the existence of relict groups among them.
The Negro has never produced a great civilization any time,
anywhere.
As I have already said, the anatomical and physiological equipment
of a race, including the brain, may be likened to tinder
which may, or may not, catch fire when brought in contact with a
civilization, depending on a variety of circumstances. The tinder



- 102 -


of the Caucasoid and Mongoloid have caught fire often enough
to prove their relative susceptibility in any comparison with the
Negro.
How about the brain of Neanderthal man? Was it not as large
as the modern Caucasoid?
Here again we shall never be able to make a histological examination
of the Neanderthal brain nor a study of its sulcification.
Nor can we give a Neanderthal intelligence tests. According to
Coon, the frontal areas of his brain were small since the forehead
was very low and slanted.6
Some studies in Baltimore recently showed that White and
Negro infants up to 40 weeks revealed no differences. Obviously,
therefore, differences thereafter are due to socio-economic factors.
What is your answer?
To repeat, the lower centers of the brain and nervous system in
human beings and in animals, are the ones which mature first; the
higher centers mature last. Therefore similarity of performance
in the early stages of life signifies nothing as to adult potentiality.
Was not the brain of Anatole France unusually small, although
he was a brilliant man?
Anatole France lived to an advanced age and his brain was, of
course, examined after death. Under the circumstances senility
had taken its toll. The human brain has been estimated to lose
cells at the rate of 30,000 per day from birth to the end of life.7
Moreover in France's brain the cerebrum had marked asymmetry.
The convolutions were long and tortuous, and the foldings
were unusually complex. This and other peculiarities provided
considerably more intellectual potential than the brain weight
would indicate.8
It cannot be too strongly emphasized that brain weight is a





- 103 -


criterion of intelligence only in dealing with group averages, never
in dealing with individuals. For example, I understand there is
now a theory that the hemispheres of the brain may resemble the
kidneys or the lungs in that one hemisphere may act as a "spare"
for the other if one fails. If this should prove true, then a large
weight loss in parts of an individual brain may not be accompanied
by any significant loss of intelligence in that individual.
We must concentrate on the group and the average in brain
weight studies. We have enough studies of the Negro brain, under
varied enough circumstances, to speak with assurance of its relative
weight. When this factor is combined with studies of its
other features, such as sulcification of the cortex and thickness of
the supragranular layer, we can also speak with assurance of its
relative evolutionary status.
Are you not aware that man alone is capable of culture and
that cultural influences counteract and invalidate all your animal
analogies and your references to evolutionary structure?
This question contains a non sequitur. It is true that man
alone is capable of culture but it does not follow that these influences
overbalance structure. On the contrary we have seen that
in the case of human beings heredity overbalances environment by
a ratio of about three to one. This is just another way of saying
that structure overbalances culture by the same ratio.
To revert to the tinder analogy, the Negro has failed, repeatedly
and invariably, to respond to the flame of advanced cultures
while other races and substocks have responded in varying degrees.
Perhaps it would be more accurate to say that the Negro
has responded in a lower degree than the White or Yellow races,
since obviously civilization will have some effect on any race
capable of understanding language. We note by observation and
historical experience the performance of the Negro—we see the
situation in Africa, Haiti, and our own slums and schools—we see
countless cases of opportunity forfeited and of advantages lost.
Then we examine structure and we discover the explanation.
Culture can only ignite flammable tinder. It cannot make tinder
flammable if it is not.
- 104 -

Remember this point whenever you hear an integrationist talk
about the "cultural deprivation" which the Negro has suffered.
The expression has become a cliché to account for all the Negro's
limitations. It is meaningless because you cannot speak of depriving
a race of something it is, on the average, incapable of
possessing.
There are no such things as pure races. We are all a mixture
of many strains—does this not make it meaningless to talk about
race?
Not in the least. Race is a very convenient general term and,
using it in its widest sense, we may say that there are three broad
subdivisions of the human species, the White, the Yellow and the
Black. Anthropologists go further—usually to the point of five
subdivisions which they have named Caucasoid (White), Mongoloid
(Yellow), Congoid (Sudanese, Forest, Negrito and Bantu
Blacks), Capoid (Yellow-Black), and Australoid (Yellow-Brown).
One may then go on to subdivide these into as many as 31 substocks
or strains representing various degrees of intermixture of
the above larger divisions.9
All of the divisions represent some degree of difference in innate
characteristics, distinguishable by observation of physical form.
In other words, the differences are genetic and indicate the presence
of characteristic genes. In comparing the English-speaking
White man (an amalgam of certain substocks of the Caucasoid)
and the American Negro (West African Congoid) we are confronted
with almost opposite poles of the human racial spectrum.
Here are not just differences between substocks inside one of the
broader divisions—these are differences between two of the largest
human categories and, as we have seen, they represent differences
of position on the evolutionary scale as well.
I do not mean that these cannot be mixed and produce something
somewhere between, or that they have not been mixed, both
in Africa, the Western Hemisphere and elsewhere. I mean that if



- 105 -


we can speak of the typical Congoid Negro as the genetic essence
of the Black, and the English-speaking Northwestern European
Caucasian as a fair example of the White, then basically we are
coming almost as close to comparing oil and water as is possible
with human beings.
One does not have to have the Negro gene complex in undiluted
form to make its presence recognizable and significant.
If the most typical of all Congoid Negroes has certain genetic limitations,
then any admixture of his genes will carry a proportional
degree of limitation in the resulting combination.
Since "lower" races have a common origin and common gene
pool from "superior" races, what selective factors have inhibited
their (inferior) culture? If you think there are some genetic factors
for culture, are these acquired traits? If they are not acquired
characteristics they cannot be individual racial traits, since all
Homo sapiens have their genes from a common ancestor.
You are hopelessly confused. Genetic factors cannot be acquired.
If you want to find out how species and races evolve in plants,
animals and man, read a good book on evolution such as Ernst
Mayr's Animal Species and Evolution, 1963, Cambridge.
It seems doubtful that all races of Homo sapiens had a common
Homo erectus ancestor. According to Coon and Gates the five
major races of man branched off from their Homo erectus ancestors
at different periods and places.
Where did you obtain your erroneous material relating to the
cerebral area of the dolphin's brain—advise that you refer to the
work being conducted by the University of Calif. School of
Veterinary Medicine — Neurological Anatomy, Davis Campus.
What Society? What university? What publisher? Is it, or is it not
true that the dolphin has both a larger cerebral area and a more
complex convolution pattern than the white man—why not legislate
in their field too?
While it is true that dolphins have a more complex convolutional
pattern than man and perhaps a larger area of cerebral cortex,
I have repeatedly pointed out that such facts by themselves do not


- 106 -


determine relative intelligence nor evolutionary grade. In the case
of the dolphin, other facts are more significant: specifically, the
cortex of these animals is primitive in cellular architecture, the
supragranular layer is thin, and the frontal association areas are
absent.10
Although there are differences in weight, relative sizes of fissures,
numbers of neurons found in the supragranular layers, and "statistical
average" differences in the weight of brains between the
races, have these differences, by scientific experiments, been shown
to be directly related to an individual's capacity to learn?
They have been shown to be related to evolutionary status and
evolutionary status is certainly related to capacity to learn. For
specific relations of parts to functions, look at Penfield and Rasmussen.11
Concerning the origin of man, do the findings of Leakey in the
Rift Valley (East Africa) in any way contradict your postulate
concerning the duration of development of races?
No. Leakey's 1961 find is about 14 million years old; his
Australopithecines date from about 300,000 to 1,500,000 years
ago. Thus they overlapped Homo erectus somewhat but vanished
from the earth long before the erectus-sapiens transition.
What are your biological qualifications for the biological interpretations
of this rather biased presentation? It has to be a biological
(genetic) interpretation to be a racial characteristic. Biased
literature = biased reasoning.


- 107 -

I have a science degree, as well as a law degree, but I have never
pretended to be a professional scientist or a specialist in racial
matters. What I have done is listen to both sides and read
materials presented by both sides — at the same time noting
the efforts by the scientific hierarchy to suppress and distort evidence
and to persecute other scientists who offer material exploding
the equalitarian dogma. Then I have tried to call the attention of
the public to what is going on.
You quote Coon as stating, "Brain size is related to achievement."
Is it not well documented that achievement (economic,
academic, artistic, and managerial) is dependent on much more
than innate intelligence?
I have mentioned the probability that the development of the
frontal lobes has a relation to planning, foresight and motivation—
the use of intelligence. If this be true, then the brain is still involved
in many attributes which might not be called intelligence in the
narrowest sense.
Beyond this we may say that a man's character is the product
not only of his brain and entire nervous system but also of his
glands and internal secretions, which interact with his nervous
system. Negroes differ from Whites in these secretions.12
Finally, there is that one-quarter contribution by environment.
But with full allowance for these things, it still remains true that
brain size is related to achievement. There is no contradiction.
Ralph Linton in The Tree of Culture makes reference to the
fact that certain Negro tribes in Africa were in the iron age long
before Caucasians in Europe had reached a similar stage of development,
being still on a level of stone age civilization.
I have not read Mr. Linton's book but I am advised that while
he does say that some African tribes engaged early in simple operations
with iron, he does not know whether this occurred before
similar activities in Europe. The facts as I understand them are
as follows:

- 108 -

Iron smelting was discovered in the general area of Caucasus-Anatolia
around 1500 B.C., quickly was adopted by the Hittites
and Assyrians, and spread thence to Egypt and the trade ports of
the Mediterranean, both African and European. It developed in
the interior of Northern Africa near Meroe around 400 B.C. The
question, therefore, is whether those responsible can fairly be
described as "Negro tribes."
Meroe is on the Nile about 100 miles north of Khartoum in
what is now the Sudan. It was part of the Viceroy of Kush, ruled
by Egypt until the breakdown of New Kingdom power circa 1000
B.C. Kush and Meroe were next occupied and governed by an
Assyrian military force, equipped with iron armor and weapons.
Then in 591 B.C., a force of Greek mercenaries, with iron weapons,
appeared in the area and seized part of the region. Apparently,
Meroe was the most important iron-producing area of North
Africa between about 400 B.C. and 350 A.D.
The reasons to believe Meroe was not Negro are: (a) it is
described as "the main southern bastion of Egyptian influence"
and as "the southern capital of the kingdom of the Ethiopian
kings of Napata from 700 to 300 B.C."13 The Ethiopians at the
time were not Negroes; they were Hamites ruled by Semitic immigrants
from southern Arabia. (b) We find at Meroe baths, temples
to Isis, Apiremak and the sun, pyramids, stelae of Queen Candace
and Akiniras and a head of Octavius. The inscriptions are in
Egyptian hieroglyphics and in Meroitic (a debased form of Egyptian),
also some fragmentary Greek. All of which shows that the
Meroites were not Negro, but culturally and linguistically Egyptian,
Greek and Roman."14
Is it not true that because of the great amount of unexplored
territory, evidence will be found of an earlier conversion from
Homo erectus to Homo sapiens? Is it also not true that the
climatic differences between Europe and Africa make the possibility


- 109 -

of remains being preserved in Africa much less likely than
in Europe?
New evidence may modify our conclusions, not only with
respect to the date of the sapiens-erectus threshold among Negroes,
but in all areas of science. Meanwhile we cannot and should not
refuse to judge probabilities from the evidence at hand.
More specifically, it is improbable that the date of the emergence
of Homo sapiens among Negroids in Africa will be pushed back
very far for this reason: As a rule, Homo sapiens eliminated the
earlier erectus types. We have a quite recent erectus type in
Africa, namely Broken Hill man (Rhodesia) dating from 30,000
B.C. It seems probable that sapiens types in Africa, had they
emerged at about the date of sapiens emergence in Europe or
Asia, would have spread over the more habitable portions of the
continent and eliminated the erectus type tens of thousands, if not
hundreds of thousands, of years earlier.
The fact that fire was discovered in Negro Africa only 40,000
years ago as against 250,000 years ago in western Europe and
360,000 years ago in China, based on evidence now available,15
tends further to support the hypothesis of a much later erectus-sapiens
transition among Negroids than among Caucasoids and
Mongoloids.
Your belief that the climate of Africa makes skeleton preservation
more difficult may be valid in some areas. Of 312 fossil
man sites enumerated by Coon, 49% are in western Europe,
11% in eastern Europe and the U.S.S.R., 4.5% in East Asia,
7.1% in North Africa, 7.1% in Africa south of the Sahara. But
the extent of digging in densely populated areas for building and
industrial purposes also has a bearing on the matter. Sometimes
it results in finding fossils, sometimes in the fossils being destroyed.
Likewise it must be remembered that Africa is a large continent and
has a great variety of climate. Finally there have been vast changes
in climate in both Europe and Africa in the last 300,000 years.
How is the Government of Liberia so stable?

- 110 -

Because it is essentially a political dictatorship, supported economically
by Firestone and the Bona Hills Iron mines. Although
Liberia was founded by supposedly freedom-loving Negroes from
America, the League of Nations was obliged to intervene in 1930
to stop the slave trade. It was found that the President and some
of his highest officials were implicated. The President had to resign.
John Gunther in his Inside Africa makes some pertinent observations:
The people are "mercilessly exploited." A country the size
of Ohio, Liberia has 10 miles of paved roads. "Only two native
Liberians have ever become doctors." More than 90 per cent of
the population is illiterate. Infant mortality in some areas runs
as high as 75 per cent. Flagrant corruption exists on all levels.
Gunther finds that prisoners in the jails are either fed by their
friends and relatives or starve to death; the budget provision for
their keep is devoured by grafting officials. About 15,000 Americo-Liberians
rule 1,500,000 Negro natives. The True Whig Party has
held power since the 1870's. People who criticize the President
are arrested "on any charge."
They have been telling us at Princeton that Brazil is a good
example of a multi-racial society and one which we should not
hesitate to emulate. Do you agree?
No doubt Brazil satisfies the Brazilians and I have no desire to
criticize it. Perhaps Brazilians would not care to see Brazil become
another United States, and, I dare say, the average American
would not care to see the United States become another Brazil.
The greatest concentration of Negro genes in Brazil is in the
Northeast, by far the most backward part of the nation. The most
advanced portions of the country are in the Southeast where the
Negro population is smallest.
However, taking Brazil as a whole and comparing it with the
United States, we find the following:





  Brazil  United States
 Life expectancy at birth  35-40 years  67 years
 Estimated percent of adults illiterate  51  3-4
 Paper consumption per capita (mostly newsprint)  3.6 kg.   36.3 kg.
 Gross National Product per capita  $200.00  $2,813.00

- 111 -

The above indices are useful in measuring progress because they
lend themselves readily to statistical statement. Political stability
and government fiscal responsibility are less easy to compare in
figures, but I can assure you Brazil does not rate any higher in this
area than it does in the preceding items. All of these points should
be called to the attention of your professors when they suggest
we follow in Brazil's footsteps.
You say Negro illegitimacy has a rate of 19-22. Most South
American countries have rates higher than this. Venezuela has a
rate of almost 70. You may ascribe this to mongrelization of the
races. How about Mexico, which has few Negroes and has a rate
of 22.5? And Argentina, which has a still higher rate, and has a
pure white population?
In many Latin American countries high illegitimacy rates exist,
but this simply means that stable families have omitted the marriage
ceremony. Reasons may include geographical isolation,
ignorance, local custom, scarcity of priests or high cost of the
marriage service. Illegitimacy per se is often determined by social
and economic factors and is not too meaningful.16
American Negro illegitimacy, on the other hand, occurs in a
society in which the Latin American factors are largely nonoperative.
More significant is the fact that it generally reflects a
broken family, in which the man plays a sexual, but not a responsibly
paternal, role, in which the mother is the head of the
household and the children lack necessary discipline.
a. Haitian dictators get chopped up. So do Italian and German
ones (and even ancient Roman ones). Comment?
b. A sociologist who makes a study in which he declares he compared
Whites and Negroes who had environmental equality is not

- 112 -

worth his Ph.D. Negroes are not allowed to have environmental
equality in this country, anywhere. They are always subject to
discrimination. Comment?
a. The difference is in the frequency and regularity.
b. The phrase used is "as far as possible". You are correct that
we cannot completely "equate" without turning the Negro into a
White man which is biologically impossible. The point is that as
you approach equality of environment the gap does not decrease.
Note also, that when you equate for background your Negro comes
from a higher level of his population than does the White.
T. Dobzhansky, foremost authority on genetics (Genetics &
Origin of Species, Mankind Evolving, etc.) states burden of proof
is on racists to prove their superiority. There is none. Do you
dispute authorities with your biased statements and expect intelligent
people to take your word over theirs?
Speaking of bias, I confess to a certain bias against Dobzhansky,
a specialist in fruit flies and a man whom I have found dedicated
to the political use of science for equalitarian ends. Dobzhansky,
a Russian immigrant who taught zoology and genetics in Soviet
universities from 1922 to 1927, belongs to the Columbia University
equalitarian coterie of proteges and followers of Boas, a
group which includes Margaret Mead; Gene Weltfish, who accused
the United States of using germ warfare in Korea; and Ashley
Montagu, who has been frequently connected as a speaker or
sponsor with organizations later cited as Communist.
While none of these circumstances reflect on Dobzhansky's scientific
ability, or on that of the other persons named, they suggest
a chance of bias on their part. In fact, Dobzhansky's attacks on
Coon's Origin of Races are singularly unconvincing.17 Therefore,
when he says that the burden of proof is on "racists" to prove
"their" superiority, I find the assertion pathetic. The burden of
proof is upon those who would contradict all previously accepted
fact and experience, and who would alter all previously established
custom.
As for the evidence itself, there is no evidence for equality.

- 113 -

If the Negro is so different genetically, why is it that most
Negroes raised in our segregated system cannot qualify for our
colleges while many foreign Negroes can qualify to compete in
our colleges?
Foreign-born Negroes are skimmed off the top of their intelligence
distribution. They are the cream of Negro Africa. When
we consider a race we are obliged to speak in averages, not exceptions.
Nevertheless you may be interested in looking at the National
Review Bulletin for February 2, 1965, p. 3, commenting upon a
report of a study commission on education and world affairs endowed
in 1962 by the Ford and Carnegie Foundations. This report
was based upon a survey of 75,000 foreign students on American
campuses—55,000 of them from Africa and Asia. The Bulletin
finds the report "overwhelmingly negative" and goes on to say
that too many of the students "are (1) ill prepared scholastically
and linguistically for American college courses, (2) intellectually
below college level, (3) unwilling to work, and (4) a headache, in
the aggregate, to host colleges."
Perhaps of more importance, Clark and Plotkin reported that,
on the basis of a study of 1278 Northern college students, those
Negroes from Southern segregated schools did better than Negroes
from Northern integrated schools.18
Bennett and Diamond have made studies at the University of
California at Berkeley which prove that an enriched environment
changes the measurements of the cortex of rats. Does not this
disprove your theory of heredity?
In these experiments19 it was found that rats with enriched
experience, as compared with animals kept in isolation, showed
an increase in weight of units of the cortex, an increase in thickness
and in acetylcholinesterase activity (an indicator of physiological
activity of nervous tissue). The differences were all small—
on the order of 5%. Vint's differences between Negroes and
Whites were on the order of 15%.


- 114 -

The experimenters used a "bright" strain and a "dull" strain
of rats. In the tests the bright strain showed larger effects in all
measurements than the dull strain. Also several times greater
differences in cholinesterase activity were produced by breeding
than were produced by differential experience.
In other words these experiments tend to support my position
rather than to contradict it. Consider your own body. You know
that your physical structure can be modified within limits by
physical exercise and by heavy or spare eating. But you cannot eat
or exercise yourself into the body of a world champion weight
lifter. The fundamentals are controlled by heredity.
I do not believe any scientist today would deny that somewhat
the same principles may apply to the brain. The details cannot
be considered settled, but it is safe to state that you will never
think yourself into the brain of an Einstein. Most significant of all,
of course, is the fact that the bright strain of rats showed greater
response to improved environment than the dull. If we applied
these results to our own race problem it would simply serve to
illustrate further that improved environment, equally applied, increases
race differences instead of lessening them.
According to the genetic evidence you provided on the difference
between the average Negro and the average White, similar
differences should exist between intra-marrying populations within
the white race. Do you believe that such differences exist between
the white populations in the civilized world? And if you do, who
are the superior and who are the inferior?
Let me repeat, the differences between averages among the
substocks of the White race are not similar to the differences between
the White race and the Negro.20
I will not attempt to rank populations within the Caucasian race
as to specific traits except to say that when it comes to the faculty
for maintaining stable, free societies I believe that the substock


- 115 -


amalgam usually referred to as the English-speaking peoples holds
the championship.
What possible pertinency to the question under discussion (that
of the American Negro in American society) may be inferred from
the Congo situation?
If one wants to study the properties of a substance one seeks
as undiluted a sample as possible. The Congo Negro is a fair
sample of the West African Negro stocks from which our Negroes
are derived.
 PSYCHOLOGY 
a. It is an established fact that in World War II the over-all
average I.Q. score was higher for the Northern Negro than the
Southern White. Since this average was based on all those drafted
(rather than the top and bottom), how do you explain this in terms
other than environment? If environment is accepted, does this
not also apply to the Negro situation?
b. Don't you believe that motivation has much to do with the
achievement of the Negro? i.e., that the Negro does not see the
reason for education since he does not have the opportunity to
practice his skills. Also in this line how would you explain the
fact (I'll be happy to cite) that Negro children have a higher
aspirational level than White children?
a. There was no such thing as an "I.Q. score" in World War
II. If you are talking about the Army General Classification Test,
you have your facts reversed. The Southern White excelled the
Northern Negro on this test. Five times as many Southern Whites
as Northern Negroes, per capita, were in Grade I.21
b. Negroes have very high aspirations, often based on envy,
but these are not matched by their performance. It is because
of their high aspirational level that Negroes want the short cuts
which they are unable to create themselves. The Jews, and many
others, have found added motivation in hardship and persecution.

- 116 -

Are you aware of the conclusions published by a University
of Chicago team of M.D.'s, psychologists and educators (e.g.,
Atlantic Monthly, 1963) which clearly demonstrate the fact that
the I.Q. shifts upward over 40 points in most cases when the poor
climate for education is changed to a better one?
You apparently are referring to Murray Friedman's article in
the January, 1963, Atlantic. While I find nothing in it about 40
I.Q. points, it does speak of "dramatic success achieved in raising
I.Q.'s" and thus presents a question I would like to clarify.
There is much discussion today about just what an I.Q. test
is intended to measure, and how far it accomplishes its purpose.
I believe I state the classical view correctly when I say that
ideally an I.Q. test is supposed to determine the intellectual
potential of the mind—the raw or virgin brain power—divorced
as much as possible from environmental factors. But no test can
be given in a vacuum, some words and symbols have to be used,
and the moment these are introduced environmental factors do
creep in. All we can say is that the test is intended as far as
possible to reduce their influence.
Theoretically, and in the ideal sense, an I.Q. score should
change only to the extent that exercise of a capacity increases that
capacity within the limits of innate potential. Actually an I.Q.
score is made up of innate potential, plus practice, plus past
experience in varying degrees. I would say that a test which
showed a shift of 40 points was either not intended as a genuine
I.Q. test or was poorly administered in the first instance.
If an individual is ill or scared or given a test completely alien
to his experience, large changes might occur. However, the Negro
child gets around quite a bit these days, more in some respects
than the White child, and the terms and symbols used in Negro
testing should not significantly handicap him in a properly administered
test. What you have in the case you mention is probably
less an improvement in I.Q. than in the tools with which
the individual expressed his I.Q. Education is such a tool.
Here again we must face the fact that when you give two groups
of different potential the same education you do not decrease the
gap between them. You increase it, because the group with the


- 117 -


higher potential will derive more from the education. Since no
one has yet proposed that White environment be held constant
while Negro environment is advanced, environmental improvement
will only intensify the problem of race differences.
How can your assume any validity in I.Q. tests when those
tests have been standardized exclusively from White populations?
The American Negro speaks English, has grown up in an
American culture and should experience no handicap in taking
"White tests." The Japanese in California don't. Moreover, the
Negro must live in our White society. What we are trying to
measure is his ability to adapt to our society and to contribute
to it. To the extent that the Negro does experience difficulty in
taking White tests to just that extent will the nature of his mind
be alien to the White mind. We have a culture based on abstract
thought. The Negro is poor at abstract thinking. If this shows up
in a test it does not invalidate the test. It confirms its validity.
Would you comment on the superiority of the Jewish Race (via
your I.Q. reasoning)?
Jews, who are not a race but a substock of the Caucasian race,
test as well or better than American non-Jews on "verbal" tests,
somewhat below on manipulative tests. The traits which have led
to the persecution of Jews have had nothing to do with their
intelligence.
The Negro population of the United States is only ten per
cent of the White. Many of these Negroes have White genes.
What possible difference could so small a mixture make to the
country as a whole?
In the first place the ratio of Negro to White is much higher
than ten per cent in the South. It ranges up to a majority in
some counties, besides which there are relatively few White
genes in Deep South Negroes as you can see by observation.
Secondly, and of greater importance, Sir Julian Huxley has
estimated22 that a decrease of one and one-half per cent in the



- 118 -


average I.Q. of large groups decreases by 50 per cent the number
of those with an I.Q. of 160 or higher. If my arithmetic is correct,
and remembering we have already allowed for the White
genes in American Negroes in the 20 point I.Q. difference, then
we can take ten per cent of 20 points and get 2 points as the
national I.Q. drop from absorption of the Negro. This is larger
than Huxley's one and one-half per cent, and would produce
more than a 50 per cent drop in the over-160 I.Q. group. It
might well be a 70 per cent drop.
Since a civilization is totally dependent for leadership upon a
thin top layer of its population, it is obvious that such a decline
would be disastrous for the United States.
You say the evidence shows as environment improves, performance
doesn't improve. Have you read some contrary evidence
and, if so, how do you refute it?
It depends whether you are speaking of intelligence or character.
Any environment improves intellectual and physical performance
when it allows for a better expression of one's abilities—it
does not create abilities. Practice improves a man's golf but only
so far as his innate capacity permits. Practice alone will never
make an Arnold Palmer.
Crime and immorality are in a somewhat different category.
I have not attempted a detailed study of the national figures, but
it is common knowledge that the Negro is pushing forward faster
today than ever before23 and more efforts are being made to encourage
him, yet his relative crime and illegitimacy rates are increasing.
The FBI will confirm this to you.
a. You made reference to a survey in which Negroes and Caucasians
coming from similar social and economic backgrounds
took an I.Q. test in which the Negroes made consistently lower
scores than the Whites. Is it your opinion, then, that Negroes possessing
lower I.Q.'s can produce the same social and economic

- 119 -

level of living as that of the Whites who have higher I.Q.'s?
b. You compared the Negro's situation to that of a minor whose
adult rights are curtailed because the average minor is not capable
of using these rights properly. However, society has taken it upon
itself to compensate the minor economically because of his inferior
status—that is, the legal guardian or the state is legally required
to support the minor until he reaches majority. Do you feel that
if the Negroes' status is inferior, the government should compensate
it economically?
a. Equal socio-economic backgrounds are not necessarily the
result of, nor do they produce, equal I.Q.'s. They do, however,
remove the argument that environment is suppressing the I.Q.
b. Because an analogy is used to illustrate one facet of a situation
does not mean that it applies to all other facets of the situation,
nor do I believe it to be the duty of intelligent people
(through the "State") to provide unintelligent people with the
same standard of living as themselves. Exceptionally strong
women who, because of the limitations of the average woman,
are forbidden to work overtime in factories, are not compensated
by the state. Neither is the average woman.
The essence of your argument seems to be that integration in
"genetic" situations would tend to decrease the standard deviation
of potentialities, i.e., sacrifice exceptional individuals to decrease
the percentage of substandard individuals, whereas the accumulated
evidence supports the view that marital selection through
social channels has tended to increase the standard deviation, i.e.,
increase the variability of potentials. Would you comment on
this?
I have seen no evidence, accumulated or isolated, that indiscriminate
marriage (which is what you end up with after total
integration has operated for a few generations under the pressures
of an equalitarian ideology) increases the deviation at the upper
end of the scale. In fact, all the evidence is to the contrary. This
is what a civilization must be most concerned about. Do you for
one moment contend that the amalgamation of two groups, one
with an I.Q. 15 or 20 points below the other, is not going to


- 120 -


result in a mean I.Q. below that of the higher group?
Do you feel that tests evaluating Negro intelligence are scientifically
justifiable even though contemporary society has impressed
upon the Negro his innate inferiority? How can you free
the Negro from the stigma of inferiority so that an honest evaluation
of his intelligence can be made?
Contemporary society has impressed upon me the fact that I am
not a fit bridge partner for Charles Goren. Does this lower my
playing performance within my own capacity?
If "anyone's position can be improved by education," why not
simply educate Negroes—it seems you have invalidated your own
argument. About Brown vs. Board of Education—state your
sources on "new evidence"—were these from Southern courts?
I have never suggested that Negroes not be educated. I suggest
Whites be educated, too, and when both groups are educated the
gap between them is simply increased, for the reason that the
capacity of the White to receive education is greater than the
Negro's.
As to Brown vs. Board of Education, evidence never comes
from courts; it comes from witnesses. The chief witness in the
Brown case was a Negro. The witnesses in Stell and Evers were
from both North and South. If you want to read the evidence you
can do so by ordering the transcript in any of these cases (at
considerable cost) from George Leonard, 1730 K St., N.W.,
Washington, D. C. 20006, or you can write for the opinions and
findings of fact of the judges (at modest cost), also from Mr.
Leonard.
How do you account for the so-called "exceptional" Negro?
Is he the result of a genetic mutation; or perhaps the result of
being fortunate enough to realize his actual potential despite
people like you?
Variability will account for the exceptional Negro, a factor
which is supplemented in many areas and most cases by some


- 121 -


White ancestry. In a study of bright Negroes done in Chicago, 80
per cent reported some White ancestry.24
If environment plays virtually no role in aiding the intelligence
of a person, then why were the Negroes from Northern states able
to score better than Whites from the South during World War I?
Didn't you admit education was a factor in this case?
I did not say environment played "virtually no role." I said
it played a minor role—about one-quarter, to be specific. I also
explained the reason for the World War I results, namely, first,
the best of the Negroes were compared with the worst of the
Whites and, second, the test used was not for I.Q. but was one
which reflected educational experience.
Certainly education is a factor. Even an animal's performance
can be improved by education, up to the limits of its innate
capacity.
If we assume your facts to be correct, what does a democratic
society care about intermarriage, etc., of different I.Q. groups,
etc.?
A democratic society ought to care about the qualities in its
population which have made it capable of becoming and maintaining
a stable, free civilization. No Negro population has ever
been able to do this, for reasons which I have already examined;
therefore, to the extent that a successful free society absorbs a
Negro population, to that same extent will its success decline.
Even accepting your assertion of racial differences, if there is
a significant overlap should not divisions in classes in schools be
made on the basis of individual ability instead of race, putting
the superior Negro with the superior Whites?
I have already quoted at some length from the federal court's
findings on this point in the Stell case. Now let me give you what
a federal court in another case had to say on the same subject.
Here are the findings of the judge in Evers:

- 122 -

"The differences so measured [between White and Negro children]
were not limited to the change of learning rate and ultimate
difference in relative mental age or I.Q. which the Court has
previously noted, but included as well an even more fundamental
distinction in educational patterns, that of subject interest and
problem approach. The witnesses were unanimous that these
differences were not only substantial in themselves but were of
major importance in determining the method of teaching, the selection
and content of courses and fixing the progress norms. This
was true even though an individual of one group would overlap
the other in one or more of the measured factors since these did
not show a change in the over-all pattern."
In other words, educability is a matter of more than I.Q., and
overlap in I.Q. does not necessarily mean overlap in other important
factors. I might go further and point out that there is no
such thing as "overlap" except in a specific quality. Educability
is the learning pattern of an individual taken in totality and is
made up of hundreds of traits. Overlap in all of these traits would
simply mean that a child was not a Negro. To force Negro and
White children into schools together may result in injury to the
brighter Negro child as great as, or greater than, the injury to the
average Negro.
Speaking of Evers, I would like to quote you another comment
of the court in that case which has a bearing on your question:
"Apart from any differences in learning aptitude between white
and Negro pupils, the evidence showed without contradiction
that effective learning can only occur under conditions in which
the individual's attention can be given to study without unnatural
distractions. Such receptivity occurs only when the learner is in a
group with which he has an empathic relation, such as with his
family, his kind, his neighbors of like interests, or other groups
with which he identifies himself as an individual and in which,
because of his similarity of characteristic, he is an accepted group
member."
All of the evidence in Stell, Evers and the companion cases25

- 123 -


points up a fact which the Supreme Court did not consider in
Brown, namely, that there is a basic human need for self-identification
with one's own kind which is part of the healthy psychological
development of every individual. The Court in Evers continued:
"It does not appear that this identification is caused either by
school or society but rather arises primarily from a natural biological
selection mechanism which plays a part in maintaining evolutionary
diversity of type and is described scientifically as ethnocentrism.
While race preferences resulting from gross race differences
may be consciously overridden by mature individuals, they
remain as an inherent mechanism so that no individual ever becomes
completely unconscious of such a difference.
"In the classroom, the intermingling of two groups, each having
a high degree of self-identity, causes a heightening of consciousness
of group, a result which grows as the number of contacts
between them is increased. Compulsory intermixing therefore
exaggerates rather than diminishes any divisive forces which exist."
One of the more pathetic sights to be witnessed in schools with
token, or "bright Negro pupil," integration nowadays is the
isolation of the solitary Negro in the classroom and of his family
at school functions. There is, of course, the embarrassed effort
to make every one seem at home, there are forced smiles and
synthetic gaiety as attempts are launched to digest the indigestible.
But the folly on both sides, and the cruelty to the Negro child, must
make the informed observer wince.
I doubt this would have been the case had progress continued
along pre-1954 lines. All the uproar and justifiable opposition
which follows in the wake of what is now called the Negro "revolution"
have only focussed a spotlight on the exceptional Negro
and made him a symbol of the compulsory integration movement.
Indeed, the Negro on the light side of the spectrum, the mulatto,
is always the one with the hardest problem, and the one whose
occasional presence, under the old dispensation, would quietly
have come to be accepted.
- 124 -

In what state did the Evers trial take place?
Are the actions of Black Congolese Rebels to be considered
any more condemnable than the actions of White Germans under
Hitler?
The Evers trial took place in Mississippi. If it had taken place
in North Dakota and the decision had been different, would a
Southerner be correct in accusing the Northern Court of prejudice?
The difference between the Congo and Germany under Hitler is
that the behavior of the rebels in the Congo is standard procedure
when the Negro is left to his own devices under similar circumstances,
whereas the behavior of the Germans under Hitler was
an exception to the rule among White men.
Moreover, the civilized free world combined against Hitler.
The civilized free world today, befuddled by a socialist-motivated
scientific fraud, is not only not combining against the atrocities
in Africa—by withdrawing its controls, it is actually encouraging
them.
How do you explain the fact that not one member of the National
Education Association or the American Federation of Teachers
has endorsed your belief that integration is bad (in the classroom
situation) and that the NEA has stated positively that integration
has no bad effect? (Fact citation can be found in NEA
Journal.)
The NEA is part of the educational establishment whose motivations
I have already examined. The record in Stell and Evers,
and other companion cases, is replete with study after study on the
adverse effect of integration. These were sponsored by scientific
witnesses under oath and subject to cross-examination. No members
of the associations you mention ventured to appear.
Why do Negro children score higher on I.Q. tests when the
test is administered by Negro testers? This holds true especially
on Achievement Tests.
Your facts have been disputed, but even if they are correct,
what difference does it make? White children still do better than
Negroes even when the latter are tested by Negroes. All that your


- 125 -


point seems to prove is that Negroes are more relaxed and accomplish
more in the presence of other Negroes, which is a good
reason for Negro teachers and classmates.
If you were to take two 400-lb. alligators—one with a brain
weight of 17 g. and the other with a brain weight of 13 g.—and
the latter were transported to a zoo and conditioned to certain
responses, would you then assume that alligators with a brain
weight of 13 g.—as an average, of course—have a greater intelligence?
Thus, are you saying that brain weight is proportionate
to intelligence? Is the size of the brain relative to intelligence?
You are mixing several factors in this question. First, I have
already explained that an I.Q., properly determined, is not radically
changed by education, although I have qualified this by adding
that education will always improve performance up to the limits
of innate capacity. Second, I have emphasized that brain weight
or size is only part of the story concerning intelligence in any
individual case—cortex area, proportion of parts and cyto-architecture
are also involved. I leave you to apply these variables to
your alligators.
If you use inferior brain potential as justification for segregation
would this apply to Caucasians with damaged or slightly retarded
brains as well?
By definition, damaged or slightly retarded brains are not a
group characteristic of Caucasians, whereas a lower I.Q. and other
differences are group characteristics of Negroes. Obviously if brain
damage or retardation is significant such individual Caucasians are
segregated.
You admit that the difficulty with integration is that it leads
inevitably to intermarriage and this in turn would lead to abasement
of the genetic stock and a degeneration of the general level
of intelligence. This would occur because the frequency of high
intelligence in Negroes is significantly less than in Whites. You
also admit that in some cases Negroes equal or excel some Whites
in intelligence. Interbreeding of these Negroes with Whites would
- 126 -

not necessarily debase the genetic stock and in some cases might
even raise the level. If we may ignore the practical difficulties a
moment, should you not in consistency be advocating segregation
of the intelligent from the less gifted regardless of race—since
intelligence is the issue you find important?
I have already answered this question from several angles but
I will summarize: First, educability is not solely a matter of
intelligence. It involves subject interest and problem approach
which have been found to differ between Whites and Negroes
among the exceptional as well as the average. Second, we cannot
ignore the practical difficulties—organizing a society is a practical
matter. Consider my references to exceptional minors and women.
Third, once the doors of White society are thrown open to exceptional
Negroes in those areas where mates are chosen it would
be virtually impossible to close them in the face of other Negroes
because of the ideological pressures of the equalitarian movement.
Fourth, race mixture involves not only intelligence levels,
but also temperament, degrees of courage or lack of it, character,
and so on, as well as physical differences which may create organic
disharmony in a crossing. Fifth, your suggestion is academic
because the Supreme Court's 1954 decision and the Civil Rights
Act require indiscriminate integration.
How could you ask for a finer public servant than Edward
Brooke, the Senator from Massachusetts? He disproves your theory
of inferiority.
Look at Edward Brooke's face. Do you consider him a typical
Negro? And if you do not, why do you use him as an argument?
Can you not see that in doing so you are misleading the uninformed
as to what the real issues are?
In any large community there are Negro men to admire and
Negro women who are equally fine. From observation I would
judge there is as much overlap in character and charm as there
is in intelligence, although here again it usually seems related to
some white blood. I touched on this problem in considerable
detail in the last chapter of Race and Reason and will not repeat
myself here.
- 127 -

a. 100 years ago how many Negroes could top White men in
I.Q. tests and how many Negroes can now? That is: has not the
Negro improved slightly under segregation and greatly under integration,
and none in slavery?
b. Why can't a culture be adopted?
a. The Negro has improved greatly under segregation; it is not
apparent that he has done as well under the limited integration
he has experienced.26
b. Because a culture is the product of the innate capacity of
the race which created it. It can to some extent be parasitically
enjoyed by races of less capacity, but it can neither be advanced
nor independently sustained by such races.
Since the Orientals in our society have a much lower crime rate
and illegitimacy than the average White in our society, and since
differences between peoples are genetic in origin by a 3 to 1
ratio—can it not therefore be inferred that the Oriental is indeed
not only the Caucasian's equal, but his superior?
In some respects quite possibly. I cannot verify your figures
as I have not studied them. I have stated previously that the English
speaking stocks of the Caucasian race probably hold the
championship in maintaining stable, free societies.
You stated that the lack of perfect evidence of the Negro's
inequality (inferiority) is no reason to assume that he is equal.
Is it not equally true that imperfect evidence of his equality is no
reason to assume he is inferior. Particularly since, contrary to
your assertion, the balance of evidence does indicate that the
Negro is potentially equal, but lacking the social and cultural
advantages.
Your facts are wrong. You assume that the evidence is equal,
in amount and in imperfection, on each side. The truth of the
matter is that the evidence is overwhelming on the side of inequality—indeed
I know of no evidence at all on the side of
equality. What I said was that because every item of the evidence


- 128 -


for inequality was not perfect was no reason for assuming that the
opposite of the evidence was true.
When your group of scientists say one thing, and we are taught
that a much larger group of scientists say something else, how
are we to decide which is correct except by the preponderance of
opinion?
By learning to think for yourselves, which is one of the chief
objects of education. In this case it is not a difficult task. All you
need to do is to stop taking unsupported assertions as final and
demand to look at the evidence. There will soon be no question
left in your mind.
 CIVIL RIGHTS 
Is not the right to integrate a constitutional right?
There is no "right" to integration, either in our Constitution,
our moral code, or our religious precepts. Segregation for valid
reasons is an accepted social procedure. I cannot claim that I am
denied "equal rights" or "civil rights" as an American, or that
I am made a second-class citizen, or that I am deprived of "human
dignity", if I am refused the use of a ladies' rest room or if, having
a contagious disease, I am placed in a segregated hospital. We
need be concerned only with whether the reasons for segregating
the Negro are valid, and this is where the question of the genetic
versus the environmental source of his limitations becomes
decisive.
The Negro's so-called "constitutiona" right to integration derives
solely from the Supreme Court's decision in the Brown case.
As we have seen, this case was based upon misrepresentation
and concealment of vital evidence bearing upon the genetic issue.
You often speak of segregation in "social" situations. What do
you mean by a "social" situation?
Any situation which has genetic implications. These are the
situations which produce instinctive tensions, and logical tensions
as well, because they invite the possibility of interbreeding. But
when it comes to deciding what is or is not a social situation we


- 129 -


are confronted with great local variations. A restaurant in a small
Mississippi town may be very different in this respect from a
restaurant at the Grand Central Station in New York. The same
may be true of other forms of public accommodations, or indeed
any aspect of community life.
I do not suppose we have ever faced a situation where the
advantages of the dispersive aspects of our federal system as
originally designed could be more wisely applied, and are being
more callously disregarded. There are many areas of the North
and West with relatively minor Negro populations in which policies
entirely different from those in areas with large Negro populations
would be justified.
They have a rule of thumb in the South that the Negro problem
does not become serious until the ratio approaches ten to fifteen
per cent, but regardless of this flash point, when one considers the
spectrum nature of the race problem—the shift in this spectrum
toward the mulatto in certain Northern areas as well as the variability
in the quantity of Negroes—it is folly to attempt to deal
with it by one set of laws or customs everywhere.
I cannot over-emphasize the importance of the concept of variability
in dealing with any racial problem. We have the variability
of the genetic spectrum, of the population ratio, and finally of the
community setting. Consider a small town in Montana which has
two or three Negro families whose predominantly White genes
show in blue eyes, straight hair, sharp noses, and relatively high
I.Q., and whose Negro genes are only apparent in skin color; then
compare this town with one in Alabama where the population is
over fifty per cent Negro of pure or nearly pure blood, with prognathous
jaws, kinky hair, flat noses, everted lips and relatively
low I.Q. In the first situation it might be justifiable to have no
segregation at all, while in the second some segregation might be
essential.
What could be more apt to invite community disruption than
to try to control racial problems in those two towns by the same
set of laws made by politicians sitting in Washington and hoping
to win the Negro vote in New York—or by a Supreme Court


- 130 -


which has heard only one side of the evidence on genetic racial
differences?
But should not everyone be equal at least before the law?
Before the law, yes, but this does not mean that the law should
be everywhere the same. Circumstances alter cases. We find a
great variation in laws throughout the United States. Consider
the liquor laws or the speed laws. Some communities prefer certain
things one way, some another. It is when the federal government
steps in to force the views of one section upon another
whose circumstances are different that trouble starts.
What about voting? Surely here the law should be identical
everywhere?
It would undoubtedly be unreasonable to say that simply because
a man is a Negro he cannot vote, but on the other hand it
may be essential as a practical matter to establish a more rigorous
procedure for selection of voters, both white and black, in communities
with heavy Negro concentrations since the consequences
of a failure in, or evasion of, the procedure are more serious.
We know, for example, that Negroes as a race have never been
able to maintain a stable, free society, anywhere, any time—in
fact, government by a Negro majority invariably results in chaos.
We may even question whether, based on historical experience,
the average Negro really prefers a republic to other forms of
government. His standards of fiscal responsibility are quite different
from the White. Our own American experience has proven
that his vote is more easily bought and that he is more apt to vote
as a bloc. With large numbers of Negroes in a community, therefore,
it is vital to be sure that the level of intelligence of the voting
Negro is high, even if this means cutting out larger numbers of
less intelligent Whites than might be necessary in an all White
community.
One of the more alarming things to me about the current
political scene is the blindness and stupidity of the politician who
openly seeks, and brags of capturing, the Negro vote—meaning
the vote of the average Negro. This is the equivalent of saying:


- 131 -


"My policies have attracted the approval of a race, the degree of
whose participation in public affairs has always been a measure
of the deterioration of the society in which it occurs."
I am indebted to the government of Rhodesia for the following
summary of the manner in which the problem is handled there.
While the situation is different from that in the southern United
States, the method has some thought-provoking aspects:
"The franchise is for voters of all races registered on one of
two rolls and extends to all citizens aged 21 years or over, resident
in the country for more than two years, subject to certain
property, income or educational qualifications. Of the Legislative
Assembly of 65 members, 50 are elected to represent constituencies
by the more highly qualified voters of the 'A' roll, whilst 15,
representing electoral districts, are elected by the voters with
lower qualifications on the 'B' roll. Both constituencies and
electoral districts cover the entire country and the decision as to
which roll a person qualifies for, or stands for Parliament on, is
in no way dependent on race.
"'A' Roll: (a) Income of £792 or ownership of property
of value of £1,650; or (b) Income of £528 or ownership of
property of value of £1,100 AND completion of a course of
primary education; or (c) Income of £330 or ownership of
property of value of £550 AND four years' secondary education;
or (d) Appointment to the office of Chief or Headman.
"'B' Roll: (a) Income of £264 or ownership of property
of the value of £495; or (b) Income of £132 or ownership of
property of the value of £275 AND two years' secondary education;
or (c) Over 30 years of age AND income of £132 or
ownership of property of value of £275 AND primary education;
or (d) Over 30 years of age AND income of £198 or ownership
of property of value of £385; or (e) Kraal heads with a following
of 20 or more heads of families; or (f) Ministers or religion.
"There is no legal impediment to a Rhodesian of any race
becoming Prime Minister, Member of Parliament, Judge of the
High Court, Head of a Government Department or practicing in
any profession.
Commenting upon the above suffrage requirements the Rhodesian
Minister of Information writes:
"Without the establishment of men trained in and accustomed
to the art of government, men accustomed to ensuring order and


- 132 -


obedience to order, which is indispensable to progress, happiness
and human civilization, any society must relapse into anarchy or
become an absolute dictatorship.
"It is this basic fact that is at the root of our Rhodesian
philosophy, which is that a country is amply justified in limiting
the franchise to those of its inhabitants capable of exercising it
with reason, judgment and public spirit.
"We seek to ensure this by two means—firstly an educational
test on the theory that you thereby have a mind that is trained
and disciplined in some degree, and secondly, a means test on
the theory that a man earning more than a mere subsistence or
acquiring property of some substance has the necessary qualities
of character and mind.

<>p class="qn""There can be no general rule without hard cases, but no one
has yet devised a more certain, practical or logical approach to
the exercise of the franchise. What we do know is that there can
be no progress on the basis of an uninformed, emotional mass
electorate and that adult suffrage, inherent in majority rule would,
in Rhodesia, place control in the hands of those unequipped to
exercise it. The mob may be able to form judgments of the
personal qualities of candidates—but that is not enough, for a
voter must be able to form an opinion of the merits of the policy
presented to him."
The unlimited suffrage concept is marginal when applied to a
homogeneous electorate consisting of an advanced and experienced
race like the Anglo-American. To apply it to states or
communities with high percentages of a retarded race is suicidal.
Apparently you have no faith in democracy. Are you not
attacking the principle of "one man, one vote"?
There has never been any one-man-one-vote principle practiced
before in our republic, or in any successful free society, if
that is what you mean by "democracy". When Athenian democracy
was in its prime, large segments of the population were
not allowed to vote. Women were not allowed to vote in the
United States when I was a boy, and they are not allowed to vote on
federal issues in Switzerland today. Until recently, and under
our Constitution as it has hitherto been interpreted, the qualifiication
of voters has been left exclusively to the states, except that
by constitutional amendment (1870) Negroes as such cannot be


- 133 -


discriminated against by state laws, and women were given the
vote in 1920.
It is time Americans remembered that when Daniel Webster
called our government the last, best hope of earth he was referring
to a representative constitutional republic, the special genius of
which was the way in which the top was protected from exploitation
by the bottom and vice versa. There were all sorts of provisions
by which this balance was assured, many of which have
been whittled away, and always in favor of the bottom. If this
keeps up, it can only end in the collapse of the "the last, best hope"
because it will mean injustice, and injustice to either the top or
bottom will produce rebellion and violence in the long run.
Exclusive victory for the top means fascism, for the bottom,
communism.
What about jurors?
I feel the same way about jury duty as about voting.
Do not all your qualifications concerning treatment of the Negro
result in limiting his equality of opportunity?
In the majority of cases the Negro's failure is not due to a lack
of opportunity but to a lack of capability. It is always easy to
blame the latter on the former because opportunity itself is not
easy to define. Two runners with unequal strength do not have
an equal opportunity to win a race. Must we, nevertheless, allow
all runners to enter every race regardless of past performance?
Must every tennis player in the world be allowed to enter the
U.S. National Championships each September? Obviously this
is impossible.
In the case of Negroes in general it is only natural that judgments
should be made upon average past performance and the
individual Negro regarded with some skepticism. For this reason
there may be some opportunities that even the exceptional Negro
is denied but these are relatively rare. Most Negroes with intelligence
and character have made their way very well in the
United States.27

- 134 -

You refer to Abraham Lincoln's segregationist attitudes: in his
day, these attitudes were liberal beyond belief. Should our society
remain so static that what was a valid idea a hundred years ago
remains unchanged today? Would Lincoln express these same
beliefs today?
In his day Lincoln was not liberal beyond belief. It was the
Northern abolitionists who were the fanatical liberals of the time.
To Lincoln not slavery but secession was the issue in the Civil
War.
Apparently you assume that in order not to remain static a
society must move in the direction of equalitarian socialism,
which is first cousin to communism. I do not agree with you.
I believe such movement is deterioration, not progress.
How about references on Abe Lincoln?
The most cited reference on Lincoln is from his speech at Charleston,
Illinois, in September 1858 when he was debating with
Douglas. (See any collection of these debates.) In this speech
he said "I am not, nor ever have been, in favor of bringing about
in any way the social and political equality of the white and black
races; I am not, nor ever have been, in favor of making voters or
jurors of Negroes, nor qualifying them to hold office."
However, in view of the distortions in the press concerning
Lincoln's views on the Negro which always appear around Lincoln's
birthday, I believe it will be helpful to quote in part a letter
written to the Washington Post on March 3, 1964 by Ludwell H.




- 135 -


Johnson, Associate Professor of History at William and Mary
College. It is the most impartial summary of the matter I have
seen. The circumstances which gave rise to it are sufficiently
explained in its first paragraph:
"I have no connection with any organizations espousing either
integration or segregation, but I do have an obligation to historical
accuracy. In an editorial of February 10, you commented adversely
on an advertisement by the Citizens' Councils of America
which quoted from one of the Lincoln-Douglas debates and from
some remarks Lincoln made to a Negro delegation in 1862. In
those quotations Lincoln expressed himself as being in favor of
segregation and Negro colonization. Your editorial remarked
that the advertisement 'dishonors the memory of Abraham Lincoln
and does injustice to Negro Americans.'
"It is not at all clear to me that the century-old opinions of
Lincoln shed any light on contemporary race problems, but since
the Post editors consented to debate the issue on this level, some
attempt should be made to rescue history from the propagandists.
"Anyone contending that Lincoln was in favor of Negro equality
must assume the burden of proof. The evidence you present consists
of two quotations. In the first Lincoln says: 'I adhere to the
Declaration of Independence. If Judge Douglas and his friends
are not willing to stand by it, let them come up and amend it.
Let them make it read that all men are created equal except
negroes.' This you propose to 'fling into the face of the Citizens'
Council of America.' In that same speech Lincoln said: 'I also
yield to all which follows from that necessity [the presence of the
Negro]. What I would most desire would be the separation of the
white and black races.' Will you also fling that in the faces of
the Citizens' Council? Your animadversions about quotations
taken out of context thus seem somewhat unbecoming. The plain
fact is, as even the most cursory examination of the 1858 debates
will show, that Lincoln repeatedly stated his belief that the
Declaration applied to Negroes and also that he was in favor of
white supremacy—often in the same speeches.
"No one can deny that Lincoln was opposed to slavery. But
his position on the race question is altogether a different matter.
During the 1850's, and especially during the debates with Douglas,
Lincoln stated unequivocally that he was opposed to: (1) the
state of Illinois bestowing citizenship on its Negroes; (2) enfranchising
Negroes; (3) allowing them to serve on juries; (4)
social equality. One of the reasons he gave for opposing territorial


- 136 -


slavery was a desire to preserve the West for free white men.
Furthermore, he was a long-time advocate of colonization in the
tradition of Henry Clay, whom he so greatly admired. In 1854,
for example, Lincoln said that his first impulse as to the method
of dealing with slavery would be to free the slaves and send them
to Liberia, although he saw grave difficulties in the way. In 1857
he was more hopeful, saying: 'The enterprise is a difficult one;
but "when there is a will there is a way"; and what colonization
needs most is a hearty will.' As President he attempted with
remarkable persistency (even after the Emancipation Proclamation)
to carry out this project. In his first annual message to Congress
he asked for money to finance colonization, saying: 'On this
whole proposition, including the appropriation of money with the
acquisition of territory, does not the expediency amount to absolute
necessity—that without which the Government itself cannot
be perpetuated?' In his second annual message in December
1862, Lincoln asked for a constitutional amendment that would
allow Congress to appropriate money for colonization. In 1863
a colony was actually established on Ile a Vache, Haiti, but it was
a dismal failure, and the survivors were brought back the following
year. In July, 1864, Lincoln's private secretary, John Hay, noted
in his diary that the President had finally given up colonization.
"Back in 1854, Lincoln had said, suppose colonization proved
to be impracticable — 'What then? Free them all, and keep them
among us as underlings? Is it quite certain that this betters their
condition? I think I would not hold one in slavery, at any rate;
yet the point is not clear enough for me to denounce people upon.
What next? Free them, and make them politically and socially
our equals? My own feelings will not admit of this; and if mine
would, we well know that those of the great mass of white people
will not.'
"The most advanced position Lincoln ever took as to the rights
of Negroes was in a letter of March 13, 1864, in which he wrote
to the Union governor of Louisiana to 'barely suggest for your
private consideration' that those Negroes who were 'very intelligent'
or who had fought in the Union army be allowed to vote in
state elections; but this was, Lincoln concluded, 'only a suggestion.'
Lincoln, like Jefferson and unlike the doctrinaire integrationist
of today, realized the profound complexity of the race
question and believed, again like Jefferson, that the only sure
solution was colonization. . . .
"The other piece of evidence you present in rebuttal, a quotation
from a letter Lincoln is supposed to have written early in


- 137 -


1864, saying that 'the restoration of the Union must rest upon the
principle of civil and political equality of both races,' is of doubtful
authenticity, in spite of its inclusion in the most recent collection
of Lincoln's works. This purported letter was printed in the
New York Tribune on September 26, 1865, in the midst of the
developing controversy over Reconstruction policies. The source
given by the Tribune was the Southern Advocate, a paper which
has never come to light, let alone the original letter. On the face
of it it appears unlikely that Lincoln would have made such a
statement at the same time he was trying to induce Negroes to
leave the country altogether . . ."
This should be the letter to end all letters on Lincoln and the
Negro. The claims by Republican liberals at the 1964 Republican
Convention that they represented the Lincoln Wing of the
party are among the more fanciful fabrications of our time.
For the sake of this question, I will grant you the validity of
your "facts." If you can show the average brain capacity of a
group of black, green, purple, or white people less than that of
a group of black, green, purple or white group—I say "good for
you." It seems that you go on to assert that one should enter
into social interaction only with those people of at least equal
mental capacity. How, I ask, does one determine an individual's
mental capacity, briefly, when meeting him on the street and
faced with the momentous decision of whether to accept him as
a social equal, or not? I claim that this would be an absurd
undertaking, and your assertions are a mere facade for self-righteousness.
Your question involves voluntary social acceptance which is
not at issue in this controversy. The purpose of the Negro movement
and the practical result of the Supreme Court's decision on
schools is to force social acceptance, either directly or by erosion
through an ideological fraud equivalent to compulsion. You can
do what you please on the street, but there are many people who
are going to resent your telling them that they must put their
children in schools with Negroes.
Does your concept of Equality suggest that the murderers of
Evers, Herbert Lee, Louis Allen, Channey, Schwerner and Goodman
- 138 -

not be brought to justice? Is it because Negroes being
inferior must get inferior justice?
Obviously not. Justice should be universal and should prevail
in Mississippi. But I will point out that when you force upon
30 million people laws which they know to be destructive of
their civilization you are going to increase crime among the more
violent elements of the population. The same thing would happen
in the North if something equally destructive were forced upon
them against their convictions.
Your whole speech appears to be more an apology for segregation
than a scientific dissertation. You know that segregation has
been the cause of lynching, bombing, shooting, beating, unjust
jailing in Mississippi. How do you justify this? If we accept
segregation on your thesis, we must also justify these things.
Your facts are wrong and your conclusion is a non-sequitur.
Segregation has not been the cause of the crimes you mention;
the cause has been the attempt at forced integration. To the
extent that crimes against the Negro were previously committed
by Whites in the South, these were few in comparison to those
committed by the Negro against other Negroes. Thousands of
Southern communities lived at peace with the Negro before 1954
and some still do.
Aside from genetic considerations, how much do you think
segregation has to do with causing the Negro to have such low
moral standards, low I.Q., and high rate of illegitimate births
and disease?
If a patient has a contagious illness and is segregated from
the public, for the public's protection, how much does this have
to do with the patient's having the illness?
How do you justify segregation when you know that it is
the means of enforcing poverty? 46 per cent of the Negro families
in Sunflower County are forced to live on less than $1,000 a
year.
Segregation does not enforce poverty. The Jews have frequently

- 139 -


been segregated throughout history, but they have not been made
poor.
How can you justify discrimination in voting and transportation,
for example, on differences in intelligence capacity as the
Constitution has no intelligence requirements? Seating in buses is,
similarly, not based on I.Q.
The Constitution leaves to the several states the determination
of the qualifications for voters, providing only that they be
uniformly applied to all races. I have already suggested how this
might be done in our South, and have illustrated how it is being
done in Rhodesia.
I may remind you, first, that when the Constitution was originally
adopted Negroes were chattel property and consequently
received no rights thereunder and, second, that when the 14th
Amendment was adopted after the Civil War, it was forced upon
the South without any pretense of legality. All but one of the
Southern States rejected it and it was only ratified by them when,
under a law passed by a Congress from which the South had been
excluded, they were given no choice save to accept it or submit
to military rule. The President vetoed this law, saying that its
whole character, scope and object were in palpable conflict with
the plainest provisions of the Constitution. The rump Congress
over-rode the veto.
However, I am still of the opinion that the Negro can now be
held to have many rights under the Constitution and 14th Amendment
without the disastrous interpretation placed upon it by the
Supreme Court in 1954.
As to transportation, this is not normally a social situation.
You argued with a decision of our Supreme Court. Is not any
decision of this Court "The Law of the Land" and not for you
to dispute?
Your education has scarcely begun. It is the right of any
citizen to disagree with, and lawfully seek to change, any decision
of any court. Has it not occurred to you that when the NAACP
obtained the decision in Brown vs. Topeka (the case on which

- 140 -


the integration movement rests) it overthrew the decisions of
ninety years? The only difference is that the NAACP obtained
this decision by misrepresenting and omitting evidence, while I
am trying, as best I can, to restore the original law by telling the
truth.
Can you honestly say that segregated facilites in the South
are equal? Here is a working example of segregation. Let us
look at this.
Segregated schools for Negroes in the South were rapidly being
made equal to those of the Whites in physical facilities. This was
true long before 1954. Segregated eating places, hotels and stores
run by Negroes are usually of low quality. Whose fault is this?
Take a long look.
Are not ideas like yours responsible for the terrible way Negroes
are treated in South Africa?
Let me answer this question with two of my own: (1) If you
had to pick one country in which to live out of the entire African
continent, which one would you choose? (2) If Negroes are
treated so terribly in South Africa, why is it that 25,000 Negroes
manage to enter that country illegally each year and only a few
leave?
Today all of the peoples you refer to as backward are demanding
their rights and their freedom. The world is in a ferment. It
is part of progress. How can you expect to stop it?
Just tell a naïve person often enough that you owe him a living,
that he is entitled to share your earnings, that you have cheated
him for years, that he has a "right" to your savings and achievements,
and watch how quickly he will start to ferment.
The world situation you mention is the product of White
socialist indoctrination—of what Churchill called the "gospel of
envy." It has no relation to reality. Modern means of transportation
and communication have spread this gospel broadcast like
a virus. How to stop it except by starting to tell the truth I cannot
say. But you may be sure it is no part of "progress".
- 141 -

Governor Scranton suggests that one reason for Goldwater's
defeat in the 1964 election was the "exclusive" nature of his
appeal to voters—that the Republican party must have a "broader
base" and be more attractive to minority groups. Do you agree?
The desirability of exclusiveness depends upon what is excluded.
A man who tries to please everybody ends up pleasing
nobody, although, if he has enough resources at his disposal, there
may be quite a circus for some time.
To please indiscriminately is to do destructive things. To cater
to the Negro vote, for example, is to forget that Negro voters,
left to themselves, have never been able to operate a free government.
When you please the Negro bloc, without carefully examining
what you do, you are apt to be injecting into the bloodstream
of the body politic the virus of collapse. The body politic in
our case may be strong enough to stand a certain amount of such
a virus, but it is bound to be weakened by it, and can be destroyed
in the long run.
The United States, was founded on, and developed through, the
laws, institutions and traditions of the English-speaking stocks of
the White race. The majority of our population still consists of
these stocks. We will be unwise if we adopt policies to please
other stocks or races which either directly violate our institutions
or which indirectly, through unrestricted immigration, lead to
their violation by so changing the nature of our population that
they will be voted or interpreted out of existence.28
As a lawyer you should read Prof. Cahn's article "A Dangerous
Myth in the School Segregation Cases" [sic] which shows that
the Supreme Court did not rely on science in deciding those
cases, but just pretended in part to do so out of courtesy to Prof.
Clark and his colleagues. The Court decided the cases solely on
the grounds that separate but equal schools for Whites and Negroes
are inherently unequal and thus violate the 14th Amendment.
So all your arguments about science are really beside the
point.

- 142 -

Because this article29 was cited by the Fifth Circuit as its
principal excuse for refusing the plea of the trial court in Evers
(they speak of the trial court as "bewitched and bewildered by
the popular myth that Brown was decided for sociological reasons
untested in a trial"), I feel justified in making a few frank comments
about both the article and the Fifth Circuit.
Cahn's article has two faults. It is misinformed as to the
facts and irrational in handling what facts it has. Cahn begins
by saying that Kenneth Clark with his doll tests was trying to
prove to the Supreme Court what everybody already knew without
his proving it, namely, that a sense of inferiority generated by
segregation damaged the Negro child. He then admitted that
Clark did not do this very well, but that his inadequacies did not
matter, since the Court knew what everybody else knew anyhow.
Cahn was apparently unaware that Clark had conducted earlier
tests on larger numbers of Negro children which flatly contradicted
his testimony before the Court and indicated that integration
caused greater damage to the Negro child than segregation.
Cahn was also ignorant of the evidence available, but not offered
to the Court, concerning the innate nature of the Negro's limitations—in
other words the evidence showing that the "sense of
inferiority" of the Negro was not something initially created by
either segregation or integration, but something due simply to
his biological limitations. The Fifth Circuit knew, or ought to
have known, about these deficiencies in Cahn's article.
It is clear that when you, or Cahn, or a court say that "separate
but equal is inherently unequal" you cannot make the statement
in a vacuum. You must have some justification for it. Vassar
and Yale are separate, but they are not inherently unequal. The
inequality, if such it be, in the case of the separation of Negroes
and Whites can result solely from the implication of inferiority,
which Cahn finds cruel and the Court finds unconstitutional.
Now when evidence exists, but is not introduced at a trial, which
indicates not only that integration increases the sense of inferiority
as compared with segregation, but also that neither segregation



- 143 -


nor integration creates the inferiority which is due rather to innate
limitations and is thus a fact of life, do you, or Cahn, or the
Fifth Circuit mean to say that this evidence has no bearing on
the issues and that anyone who says it does is bewitched?
Of course the crowning item is the remark by the Fifth Circuit
that the appeal of the White children in the Evers case "tries the
patience of the Court." Let me suggest to the Fifth Circuit that
their specious opinions and their lack of moral stamina may someday
try the patience of history.
I will also suggest to Prof. Cahn that if he thinks this sort of
thing adds to the "dignity and stature of every American" he
lacks the Anglo-American concept of what dignity and stature
are.
 ETHICS 
Should we be corrupt and wrong to an individual just for
advancement? Should the Negro individual be sacrificed for the
White man to avoid "stagnation"?
I have never suggested that we be "corrupt and wrong" to the
Negro, or "sacrifice" the Negro. Do we "sacrifice" the individual
strong woman when she is not allowed to work overtime in
factories, or the individual smart minor when he is not allowed
to vote? On the other hand, I see no reason to sacrifice the
White race to give the Negro race what it has not earned and
does not deserve.
You seem to recognize a certain value in Love. How do you
explain in biological and racial terms the White man's apparently
inbred or innate propensity to hate Negroes—to lynch and throw
bombs?
The average White man has no innate propensity to hate
Negroes or throw bombs. Every race has criminal elements and
neurotics, including the White race, and these are often inflamed
by agitators and destructive legal decisions based on deception.
Please comment on the conflict between your views and the
- 144 -

views of Christ1 and the founding fathers of this country,2 that
is, if there is a conflict?
1. All men are brothers; 
2. all men are created equal.
1. I can answer this point in the words of Weyl and Possony
in their Geography of Intellect, 1963: "If my brother is a cripple,
do I treat him as if he were physically sound? If he is mentally
retarded, does a brotherly attitude consist in pretending that he is
normal?"
2. The phrase you quote is taken from the Declaration of
Independence which was written by Thomas Jefferson at a time
when most Negroes were chattel property. Here is what Jefferson
thought about the Negro race: "Nothing is more certainly written
in the book of fate than that these people are to be free; nor is it
less certain that the two races, equally free, cannot live under
the same government."
I respect your faith in the many authors quoted. Perhaps
the majority or even all are correct. However, should these differences,
if they exist, mean that we treat an individual of this
different race other than as an equal? I may be idealistic and no
doubt prejudiced, but treating the Negro race as unequal can in
no way help them and will only help us Whites in dislike for the
colored person. On the other hand, treating the Negro as an equal
may indeed help his race and ours by giving him a chance to show
his worth. Thank you for an intelligent and relatively unemotional
presentation. It will make many of us weigh our beliefs again,
which cannot hurt any individual.
Thank you for your comments. But the evidence indicates
that the average Negro cannot compete against the average White
man and that throwing him into competition does not help him.
Moreover, do you really think that forcing the White children
of the South, at the point of a bayonet and against the wishes
of their parents, into schools with a race which the balance of the
evidence today indicates to be 200,000 years behind them in
evolutionary grade, is idealistic? Do you really think turning the
Negro loose in the Congo to rape, murder and torture nuns is


- 145 -


idealistic? Is this what you mean by giving him a chance to show
his worth?
Talking about race differences just angers and humiliates the
Negro. What good can come from it?
The correct answer to your question requires an examination
of the cause of the anger. The trouble is this: The Negro has
been told by White liberals that his difficulties are the result of
White injustice. This has inflamed him against the White man.
It has also led to a certain sympathy for, and encouragement of,
Negro aggressiveness on the part of bemused Whites among the
general population.
Sensing these things, the Negro has naturally indulged himself
in a totally fallacious fantasy. The average Negro honestly
believes himself the victim of injustice and oppression, whereas
the truth is he has had endless help from the White race. In
America the Negro has received more aid than anywhere else in
the world. Any Negro who doubts this should ask himself why, if
he dislikes it here, he does not return to Africa where he can
enjoy the culture his own race created.
The Negro's present behavior is entirely a taught reaction
based upon fraud. The cure for this sort of sickness is to teach
the truth.
How can we tell the Negro he is inferior, particularly when we
add that the inferiority is genetic and therefore hopeless?
As I said at the outset, the use of'the word "inferiority" in this
area is the result of deliberate calculation on the part of White
leftists. It is intended to arouse anger instead of reason in the
reader or listener. The Negro race is a younger race than the
White race—consequently it has certain limitations. In the broadest
philosophical sense this is not inferiority, and it need not be
called inferiority in any sense. Kindness, tact and goodwill would
avoid the word, but the leftists betray their true colors by using
it often—albeit in a sort of inverted context by putting it in the
mouths of their opponents.
Secondly, it should be obvious that genetic inequality is almost


- 146 -


universal. It is just as real intra-racially as interracially. I am
aware of my genetic inferiority to many men in many ways. But
I do not consider that this makes my life hopeless. I try to work
within my limitations to make the most of what capacities I may
possess. You have often heard the old saying "Life's not in holding
a good hand but in playing a poor one well." That is the real
achievement, the only true title to respect, the only genuine source
of human dignity. I do not ask the government to help me force
myself into the company of those who are genetically my superiors,
or who may differ from me in other ways.
Would not the Negro gain by social association with the White
race and ought not the White race freely to grant such association
to the Negro?
I suppose I might "gain" if I had lunch twice a week at the
White House, spent my vacations with the British Prime Minister
and dined every night with the Pope. But this is not the kind
of association I have earned or that I would expect to find mutually
profitable. Without such mutuality the relationships would soon
become strained.
Should not human differences be tolerated by all mankind in
order that we may live peaceably together?
There is a distinction between tolerating differences on the
one hand and, on the other, so organizing a society that the
attributes constituting the differences are incorporated or absorbed
as between a lower and a higher culture. Tolerance in such a
case simply results in the destruction of the higher and superior
culture.
How do you know our culture is superior?
Because the other cultures envy us, not vice versa. They not
only want our money and other fruits of our achievement; they
would like to enter our society if they could. You will seldom
find a Negro who cares to move back to Africa. At least I have
never met one.
- 147 -

If your sort of attitude were generally accepted it would cut
off most of the current programs to help the Negro. Comment?
Not if my position is understood. I have pointed out repeatedly
that I believe the Negro problem varies with the genetic spectrum
and that the solutions must be equally various, locality by locality.
As far as one can indulge in broad generalities I would say that
voluntary non-social integration is desirable—forced social integration,
undesirable. I have no objection whatever, indeed I would
urge, the humanitarian to gratify his passion for good works by
fighting in the mass media, the churches and the schools for an
attitude of greater cooperation between the races, an attitude
based on reality instead of fraud.
I believe much can be done to assure the exceptional Negro
higher-echelon jobs, but the statistics and the scientific facts are
clear that the average Negro is not now, and in the foreseeable
future cannot be made, equal to the average White man in his
capacity to handle higher-echelon jobs. To demand that he be
forced into such jobs, or to make him dissatisfied with lesser jobs,
is a sure road to riots.
There are today literally millions of jobs going begging in the
field of domestic service, which is a natural field for the average
Negro but for which he has neither the training nor the desire,
having been taught by the White leftist to disdain both the work
and the available wage. The relationship as to both employment
and welfare which existed for generations between White and
Negro families in the South was almost ideal because it was based
upon reality. The White family took a cradle-to-grave responsibility
for the Negro family and the latter repaid the former in
faithful service.
In those areas where the Negro population is a small percentage
of the total, I believe voluntary, not federally compelled, integration
of public accommodations is a valid objective. Where the
Negro population is a large percentage I think the problem then
begins to vary with the kind of public accommodation. It is far
too variable a matter for us to attempt to cover every possible
situation with one rule, which is why the decision should be left
to local authorities.
- 148 -

You often use the word "leftist". What do you mean by this
term?
All generalities have their exceptions and all definitions are
dangerous. Keeping this in mind, I would say that a leftist is a
person who believes in taking the money out of the pocket of
the man who earned it and giving it to somebody else. To be a
bit more cynical, often he is a man who seeks legal ways of
stealing from the top in order to buy the support of the bottom.
He is a man who lays stress on the Commandment "Love thy
neighbor" and never mentions the Commandments "Thou shalt
not covet" or "Thou shalt not steal."
The driving motivation behind the hard-core leftist, as distinguished
from the bemused humanitarian, is envy—he uses the
Commandment concerning love as a mask to cover his violation
of the Commandments concerning theft and covetousness. Envy
takes a multitude of forms and expressions. You will find relatively
few men who have built their own fortunes in the hard-core
group, although there are some of the former in the bemused
group, and many whose fortunes are inherited.
Envy, I believe, operates widely among the academicians and
intellectuals, who instinctively resent the rewards of successful
industrial enterprise. The qualities of leadership, courage and
executive ability—which compel one to face reality in dealing
with people as well as things—are relatively rare among them.
A man who is responsible for getting things done in an organization
of other men in the face of ruthless economic or natural
facts, is seldom by nature a leftist, but his achievements are always
the source from which the leftist dispenses his liberality.
Envy of our Anglo-American civilization, and of the qualities
of mind and character which built it, is widespread among certain
races, and operates in the same way—there is a strong drive to
dispense its benefits to everybody while denigrating the source
as "Puritan" or "reactionary".
Money is not the only thing which can be coveted or stolen.
It is just as possible to steal a culture, or rather to debase it,
since with integration a race without the capacity to adapt can only
destroy—it cannot possess. The leftist in the racial area seeks


- 149 -


to take by force the hard-earned and long cherished customs,
traditions, standards and other social and political attributes of
our White society and distribute and share them with Negroes.
His insinct here is the same as his instinct in the economic area.
Let me review for a moment the broader aspects of this instinct.
Pity for the deserving poor and hostility toward the sort of buccaneering
economic tyranny which characterized the late nineteenth
century are healthy motivations. They spring from a desire
for justice which is one of our higher human qualities and which
all reasonable men are willing to express in the form of some
taxation and levies on the public treasury.
What the leftist does is to kidnap this quality and use it to
lead people across the boundary beyond justice, even beyond all
reasonable mercy, to the point where the taxing power, drafts
upon the public treasury and other laws are used to attract the
votes of people who have no objection whatever to letting someone
else meet their bills or pay the price of their mistakes. Soon
a habit is formed, one of the most unbreakable habits known to
man, and the beneficiaries come to expect the donations as a right.
Thus the taxation of success, enterprise and thrift to support
failure, indolence and improvidence is institutionalized.
If the society is a rich one with large accumulations of wealth
from the past, or with a highly productive technology developed
by its more intelligent members, the leftist is in his glory for many
years. His popularity with the masses knows no bounds, and
more and more intellectuals join his ranks as they build ingenious
excuses for abandoning the old verities. Only by degrees does
the irreversibility of the trend become apparent. The heritage of
earlier days, enshrined in hundreds of ideals and principles, the
experience of a thousand years of trial and error in building and
controlling a free society, slowly are eroded away. Only at long
last is it discovered that a civilization has been destroyed.
Could you tell us your qualifications for the statement that
Christ never recommended integration? Are you a Christian?
My qualifications are a reading of the Bible. I am a Christian.
For nearly two thousand years, in fact up until 1954, nobody


- 150 -


supposed Christianity required integration. The idea is a recent
discovery, trotting obediently along behind the Supreme Court
decision. Like much of religious dogma it is an overlay on the
original, put there by very fallible men, and none has proved
so fallible or so weak—I might say such sheep—as the majority
of our religious leaders when it comes to the race problem. I take
off my hat to the minority, North and South, who still stand four
square for truth. As for the rest, they have done much to discourage
the confidence of honest and informed people in their
leadership.30
When I have raised the point that the Negro problem should be
solved in the area of the personal relationships between men
because you cannot by law give a man a heart, I have been met
by the reply: "But by law you can restrain the heartless." Have
you any counter-argument?
The flaw is in your own position which assumes that the segregationist
is heartless. As we have seen from the findings in the Stell
and Evers cases, the segregationist is actually kinder to the Negro
than the integrationist.
While there certainly are White men who are unjust and discourteous
to Negroes, they are not the source of the Negro problem.
Such men are unjust and discourteous to members of their
own race when the opportunity arises. I do not believe the average
White man is any more unkind or rude to Negroes than he is to
other White men with whom he has little in common.
Negroes are mostly poor. Since our Western civilization is
founded upon the principle of compassion and charity toward the
poor, the government ought to take an active part in carrying out
this ideal.
The difference between the government and the individual
functioning in this area is that when the government acts it is no



- 151 -


longer charity. Charity is voluntary. The government takes by
force from some to give to others. A certain amount of such
taking may be generally agreed upon by all reasonable men to
accomplish the relief of those wider dislocations which only the
government can reach.
But there is an inevitable tendency for a government unrestricted
by constitutional limitations to give more and more to
please more and more voters. It becomes again a case of robbing
the top to buy the support of the bottom. There is a word for
this, but it isn't charity.
We as the world's most prosperous nation should be grateful
for our blessings and share them gladly with other countries. You
are evil and selfish.
Consider a parable. A man goes out into a desert wilderness
and, by dint of effort and skill, digs himself a well. In time he
develops an oasis with fruit trees and shade.
One day a caravan descends upon him with hundreds of people,
all demanding water, fruit and shade. All wish to settle permanently
around him but none wishes to dig his own well, nor has
the capacity to do so.
Therefore the original settler agrees to supply all the others, and
before long neither he nor anyone else has anything. The well
has gone dry. The oasis is ravaged. The place is a desert again.
The water, the fruit and the shade in this parable are not to be
interpreted literally. They are the water of enterprise, the fruit of
intelligence, the shade of self-control—all the elements that go
to make up a stable, free society.
My point is that neither the spiritual nor the material resources
of our civilization are unlimited. We cannot support the world
on our own standard of living, and unless we conserve within
reason the products of our culture, neither we nor the world will
progress.
I am not a communist, but I believe their concept "from each
according to his ability, to each according to his need" is a sound,
humanitarian objective. If not, why not?
- 152 -

Picture a thug with a blackjack on a dark street. He slugs a
passerby and steals his wallet. The thug has a need, the passerby
has the ability to satisfy it. So the wallet changes hands. Such a
philosophy can only result in hanging a millstone around the necks
of diligence, enterprise and foresight while encouraging indolence,
shiftlessness and theft.
As a matter of fact this is precisely what is happening throughout
the nation today. The more we excuse and appease evil, the
more crime increases. The more we subsidize illegitimate children,
the more illegitimate children are born. The more permissive we
are in our attitudes towards a disorderly society, the more disorderly
our society becomes.
In all these areas we see unfold a transparent truth, namely:
Crime and demoralization are the fruits of the looseness of
thought and attitude inherent in the communist concept you
mention.
You have no conception of a world united in brotherhood.
You are fifty years behind the times.
I have already said something about brotherhood, but I will
add one thing more. Love, like charity, begins at home. A man
who loves all countries, and all races, as much as he loves his
own, is like the man who loves all women as much as he loves
his wife. He merits suspicion. I have seldom seen the matter
put better than by William Massey in his article "The New
Fanatics,"31 in the section entitled "Whither Brotherhood?" To
that question Mr. Massey answers:
"Nowhere. The current furor over brotherhood is compounded
of fallacy and foolishness. For it is fallacy to believe that men
are no longer separated by enduring differences, and it is foolishness
wilfully to believe this fallacy. Yet this fallacy is the basis
for the present campaign for brotherhood. This is not a campaign
by men who love humanity, but by men obsessed with a vision.
Their vision is of a united mankind marching toward a Utopian



- 153 -


world. It is the stylized, inhuman vision they love, not man. They
do not look at man dispassionately, or even with affection, to see
his condition and help him. Instead they preach a mystic brotherhood
of man that is both goal and means to the goal. This brotherhood
is not reached by good will, understanding and tolerance.
It is a fanatic's dream, a will-o'-the-wisp that gives them the self-righteousness
to vent their hatreds with a clear conscience. Better
an honest enemy than so strange a brother."
 MISCELLANEOUS 
Have not scientists throughout history often been persecuted
when their discoveries conflicted with popular views? How about
Galileo?
There has never been a situation, not even in the case of
Galileo, where the tampering with scientific truth has been as
dangerous as it is today, because never before has the tampering
been used as a tool of social revolution and genocide.
If Negroes are innately inferior, why must they be so carefully
segregated by law and custom? In any competition, they would
lose. If the "inferior" Negro can drag down the "superior"
Caucasian race, then perhaps the latter wants to be dragged down.
The informed White man is not concerned with Negro "competition."
He is concerned with the difference in average evolutionary
grade and the ultimate effect of genetic infusion. As for
the inferior dragging down the superior, let me quote you William
Harvey's lines: "Far more and abler operations are required to
the fabric and erection of living creatures than to their dissolution,
and plucking of them down. For those things that easily and
nimbly perish are slow and difficult in their rise and complement."
I am puzzled by the attitude of churchmen nowadays who seem
to think the Christian religion demands they support policies
which are certain to lead to the aforesaid plucking down. They
appear to care little for the heritage bequeathed them by their
forebears, or for the millenniums of self-denial and self-discipline
that have been a part of the growth of Western civilization and its
codes of honor and decency.
- 154 -

They nimbly forget the effort and sacrifice—and the handing
on of a torch—through countless generations. This is the trust
which they now propose to abandon. But before they dissipate
so many of those values which their ancestors committed to their
keeping, let such as these remember the words of Paul to the
Corinthians: "It is required in stewards that a man be found
faithful."
If you have evidence in writing of the cases of academic suppression,
why do you not expose these universities by naming
names? If you are shielding the individual involved—are they all
lacking the courage of their convictions—this seems curious to
say the least.
There is nothing curious about it. When a man's livelihood
and social standing are at stake, he naturally shrinks from jeopardizing
both. You are naïve if you think otherwise. On the other
hand there are a number of scientists, several of whom I have
cited, who, because of exceptional courage, or retirement status,
or both, have consistently spoken out.
If  White standards are so much higher than Negro standards,
why are there so many mulattoes?
Although I have said it over and over again, let me remark
once more that when we speak of race we speak of averages.
The average White man is not responsible for the mulatto.
If Whites developed before Negroes, why do Whites have more
hair than Negroes and most animals have a lot of hair?
There seems no doubt that the best criteria of evolutionary
grade are in the brain, not in the quantity of hair. The salamander
has no hair.
All facts you have presented seem to be based on majority
standards. Wouldn't these facts be treated differently if the Negro
was a majority race? Decisions therefore are not absolute, but
relative to a majority's point of view. An example: if 60 per cent
of the people on the earth call a certain fruit an orange and the
- 155 -

other 40 per cent call the same fruit an apple, who is right?
If the Negro were a majority race we would be living under
conditions similar to the Congo or Haiti. Do you recommend this?
Or I might put the matter another way: Who envies the other's
culture the most, the White man or the Negro?
a. Would you consider President Johnson a Communist or
Socialist because of his stand on civil rights?
b. Are Jews and Orientals mentally inferior to Whites?
c. Do you consider college students working in Mississippi
Communistists or Socialists?
a. No. In my opinion his stand on civil rights is due partly
to ignorance (which in turn results from a lack of the intellectual
initiative to investigate the matters we have been discussing) and
in part to political expediency.
b. Chinese and Japanese school children test about the same
as White children in Hawaii and California. I have already said
that Jews (who are not a race) test as well as or better than
American non-Jews "on verbal" tests; somewhat below on manipulative
tests.
c. I would guess that their motives vary.
Provided the environment of the Negro and White were completely
reversed, what would be the end result in crime, etc?
Within a generation the White and Negro would be back
where they are now. Let it be repeated: The Negro's nature and
behavior are the primary cause of his environment, not vice
versa.
The Moynihan Report32 shows that most of the Negro's troubles
stem from the fact that a much larger percentage of Negro
families are headed by women than is the case with White
families. This is due to slavery which destroyed the sense of
responsibility in Negro fathers, and left them no incentive to care

- 156 -

for their wives or children. This is one more injustice done by
Whites to Negroes. Have you any answer?
You are aware of the ten exhibits I have offered on the evolutionary
status of the Negro. I now ask you to weigh the slavery
explanation you have just given me against the fact that individual
control over the instinct of sexual promiscuity is a measure of
civilized development. The more sexual promiscuity you have in
any society the less apt you are to find fathers at home caring for
the children of any particular woman.
It is true that African tribes observe their customs faithfully.
But in Africa you have both polygamy and at the same time
severely repressive measures to keep the individual within the
confines of tribal discipline. The real test comes when these
measures are relaxed and the attempt is made to fit the Negro
into the framework of Western civilization.
We approach the heart of a major matter here. Whether it
be in an individual, or in the average of a race or any other
group, personal dedication to one's family—to one's wife and
children—is a profound barometer of evolutionary grade. In the
family complex the traditions and experience of the past are
cherished, while the future is foreseen and secured. The better
this is done, the more advanced is the civilization of which the
individual is a part. It involves self-control and the putting of
long-range values ahead of temporary indulgence, without which
few such values are ever achieved and which in itself is a mark
of an advancing evolution.
Heaven knows, the average White man is inadequate enough
in this area. But if you think he is in the same class with the
average Negro you are indeed hypnotized.
a. The White illegitimacy rate is increasing along with that of
the Negro.
b. Whites are richer than Negroes and consequently can afford
abortions. The figures on abortions prove this. That explains their
lower rate. Comment?
a. There has been a rise from 2% to 3% in the White rate
between 1940 and 1963, but to compare this rise to the Negro


- 157 -


situation is ridiculous. In the same period the Negro rate rose
from 17% to 24%. The rate increased by 11 per thousand
among Whites, 68 per thousand among Negroes. The Negro rate
is now eight times the White rate. In other words, although
the improvement in the Negro's condition in the last twenty-five
years has been relatively large, there has been a sharp relative
decline in the moral sector of his behavior.
b. Undoubtedly relative abortions, and relative caution and
responsibility in other respects, will account for some part of the
difference in rate. But this in itself is due to the inherent nature
of the races. Also you must remember that in all states of the
Union abortions to prevent illegitimacy are illegal and performed
in secrecy. Consequently when someone tells you that White
women have more abortions to prevent illegitimacy than Negroes
you should ask him where he gets his figures.
On the other hand, do you honestly suppose that this explanation
accounts for an eight times difference in rate?
Suppose you were a Negro. How would you feel and what
would you do?
It would depend upon the type of Negro I was. If I were an
American citizen but genetically close to West Africa I would
find work within my limitations and be contented in it. I have
pointed out that there are millions of jobs going begging in
domestic service today simply because Negroes have either been
taught to suppose they are too good for domestic work, or else
demand a wage the average White family cannot afford to pay.
Consequently many such Negroes loiter or riot in slums, cursing
society, and hugging the illusion that they are the victims of
injustice. Instead they are the victims of a false conception of
themselves, and the only injustice in the situation is due to the
leftists who misled them.
If, on the other hand, I were an overlap Negro, or a mulatto,
I would choose between a career of leadership in the American
Negro community as a business or professional man—or, in the
event I had an adventurous streak in me, I would qualify myself
for service in Africa among the "emerging" peoples there, helping


- 158 -


to carry to my racial homeland the civilizing influences I had
absorbed in America.
This does not mean that I would welcome the political and
social chaos that presently exists in Africa. I would certainly
pray for an awakening among White men which would restore a
semblance of order. The present fallacy of supposing that African
tribes have any conception of self-government or the meaning of
a free society, or can be expected to acquire it in a few decades,
is not conducive to constructive work. I would hope for a return
to the controlled conditions I mentioned in Race and Reason
under mandates from an association of free and civilized nations,
so that Negro pioneers from the United States might not be
plunged into a total jungle.
Should such become the case, I would find it an attractive
field for a career. With law and order restored, and with protection
for investments of White capital, there would exist both
an appeal to altruism and to enlightened self-interest. A Negro
could not only be of service to his people but make money too.
How can you talk about the Negro absorbing civilizing influences
in America when you see the way he is treated here?
The Negro has more advantages and opportunities in America
than anywhere else on earth. If I were a Negro, I would hope to
profit by them, as many Negroes have profited, instead of drifting
downward into slums or whining about an environment which
my race's own limitations created. I have no sympathy with
writers like James Baldwin who focus on the dregs of Negro
America, thereby disclosing precisely the negative attitude which
keeps so many Negroes where they are.
Let us be clear on one point. The White man owes the Negro
nothing. If there are any debts outstanding, they are owed by the
Negro to the White man. The Negro owes the White man hospitals,
medicines, schools, food, opportunity, and a standard of
living he could not possibly have acquired for himself. Most of
the Negroes in America today would not even exist if their ancestors
had not been brought here from Africa. The majority of
these ancestors would have been wiped out by savagery.
- 159 -

With such facts in mind it is high time Negroes like Baldwin
began looking both at what they owe America and at what they
can gain from America with a more positive attitude and a
shrewder self-evaluation. America is a great country and a good
country—and was, before 1954. Its people are tender and compassionate
beyond any other on earth. If the Negro has trouble
here, he had best examine himself for the answer.
It is a validated fact that you would not be here if you didn't
have a mother. This is the same as the Negro's position—he
wouldn't be here if he weren't the descendant of slaves brought to
America. What differences does this make on White supremacy?
Are you inferior to your mother because she was here first?
I am here because my mother lived in a civilization which made
it possible for her to survive. Had the ancestors of our American
Negroes been left in Africa, it is certain that many of them would
not have survived and consequently their descendants would not
be here. I did not say that this had anything to do with what you
call "White supremacy." I made the point in connection with the
debt the Negro owes the White man.
All your suggestions are based on Whites making the plans and
decisions. What makes you think the Negro would accept such a
program?
Your question reminds me of a remark in a letter I received
the other day from a White man in Central Africa. He said a
friend of his, another White man, had just returned from the
United States and had reported that "in America the Negro has
the White man on the run."
Judging by the attitude inherent in your question I would
suspect the report is correct. At least I would say that the Negro
has the bemused White liberal on the run. It is a disgusting
spectacle. Consider it honestly.
Here is the White race, both in Britain and America, possessed
of the greatest technology on earth, enjoying the fruits of a
relatively advanced evolutionary status, not only as regards forms
of government, standards of living and other traditions, but as to


- 160 -


the power to enforce its will. Yet it cowers before something like
the Watts riot, rushing about for solutions that will prevent a
recurrence in Los Angeles or elsewhere, placating and appeasing
with talk about hundreds of millions of White money that must
be spent to avoid the horrors otherwise in store. This cowering
and bootlicking takes place before the threats of a race 200,000
years behind the White race in evolutionary grade with no technology
whatever and no force remotely comparable.33
It seems incredible except for the hypnosis. It brings to mind
another comment made by a prominent Englishman who went to
New Delhi to attend a meeting after India achieved dominion
status and apologized to the assembly with the remark that no
British subject could humble himself sufficiently to express his
regret for the wrongs which had been done to the Indian people.34
To say this in India, in the face of all that Britain has done for
India, is bad enough. To say it in Africa or America to a race
which is far more retarded than the Indians is ten times worse.
There is no way of accounting for it except by an assumption of
guilt based on a totally false conception of the facts.
So in answer to your question, I say it is for the White man
to tell the Negro what he will accept, not vice versa. Not only
was this nation built by the White man but he is still in the majority.
If the Negro wants to live here, let him adapt to our
requirements and decisions.
You seem to object to the United Nations as a source of mandates
for reconstituted colonialism. You suggest an association


- 161 -

of free and civilized nations—would you define your word "civilized"?
Civilization is a matter of degree. There has never before been
any problem among the great powers as to who belonged in their
group, and there would be none today were it not for the cleavage
between the free and communist worlds.
The free nations of Western civilization are throttling themselves
in their attempts to accommodate communism. A separate
organization of free countries seems to me the only solution,
keeping the United Nations as a debating society for the free and
communist countries combined. When I speak of a mandated
colonial system I refer to one which would be set up under such
an organization of free powers—these are the powers which
previously administered most of the colonies which are now falling
apart.
I do not hesitate to express my belief that the scientists who,
over the last 30 years, have misled the British and American
public and their governments on the capacity of backward races
for democratic self-government are responsible for the dissolution
of colonial control. In this sense they are as guilty of the horrors
in the Congo as if they had put the gun to the head of Carlson
or the knife to the throat of the nuns.
I will go further and suggest that, had it not been for these
scientists and their equalitarian, socialist-motivated propaganda,
the ideological and political entering wedge which communism is
achieving in Africa and elsewhere would not be a menace today.
For this reason many people are coming to feel that there is a perceptible
communist influence in our educational establishment.
Perhaps it was not entirely a coincidence that the FBI recently
arrested a research associate in "social" anthropology at Harvard,
a man named Zborowski, on a charge of perjury growing out of
the Bureau's investigation of a Soviet spy ring.
You often speak of the scientific hiearchy. Isn't there also a
hierarchy of money and success which tends to discriminate
against the less successful, both Negro and White?
There used to be. But for the last generation, in this country

- 162 -


at least, the shoe has been on the other foot; any man of wealth
or position who fails to support racial equalitarianism finds himself
ostracized by his own class. He may avoid the issue, but he cannot,
for instance, actively oppose integration.
For many years socialists, communists, and left-wingers generally
have been preaching the guilt of the older regimes and picturing
them as rascals both in matters of business and in their racial
attitudes. Now it looks as if our moneyed and successful classes
had come to believe it. They appear to be ashamed that they are
not failures, too. Indeed all the governments of the Western world
seem anxious to apologize for our civilization to all those to
whom they have tried to give it and who are proving themselves
incapable of absorbing it. In other words, our ruling classes are
not only ashamed of segregation, they no longer take pride in
anything unrelated to "liberal" programs, government aid and a
renunciation of faith in individual self-sufficiency.
Having had some experience as an observer both in business
and in the academic life—both with men who have achieved
money and success under our free-enterprise system and with
those who have risen high as liberal intellectuals in the academic
world and government—I would like to assure the former that
they have no need to apologize to the latter. Our productivity
as a nation and our unequalled standard of living are not primarily
the result of government nor the socialist ideology, nor
are they the result of organized labor, any more than Hamlet is
the product of the pen Shakespeare used to write it. They are
the product of the initiative, organizing ability, daring and intelligence
of our business entrepreneurs, managers, inventors and
engineers.
I have repeatedly heard intellectuals, and occasionally even
professional men such as lawyers closely associated with business
enterprise, disparage the talents of the executive at the top as if
he were essentially only an ornament and all the real work were
done elsewhere. Much of it of course is, but I can assure the
critics of our capitalistic system that the difference between the
Russian standard of living and ours does not lie in a comparison
between our lawyers and theirs, or our intellectuals and theirs, or


- 163 -


our labor and theirs. It lies in the difference between our industrial
leaders and theirs, and the free-enterprise system under which
ours operate.
There is a quality in the shrewd business man compounded of
self-control, patience, disciplined thinking, balanced judgment, and
the courage to take risks. He represents a combination of common
sense, leadership, and a capacity for action which is the primary
source of our achievements as a nation and our standard of living.
Independence, self-confidence and decisiveness are his hallmarks.
He is worth every penny he is paid.
And he is the antithesis of everything that socialism, communism
and the typical left-winger stand for.35 It is time he reasserted
himself in our society, instead of apologizing for his existence and
his accomplishments. If he "discriminates against the less successful,
both Negro and White," it is because he cannot treat
everybody alike and get anything done.
Please understand that in paying this tribute to the sparkplug
in the cylinder I do not intend to disparage the rest of the
engine. Nor am I unaware of the beneficial role which government
has come to play at both the state and federal level in policing
the business buccaneer in his relation to the stock market, to
labor, to his competitors and to the public. I realize the soundness
of regulatory theory and I have experienced its advantages
in practice. There is, however, no connection between this kind of
regulation and the equalitarian ideology.
Do you believe that the world is confronted with a class war
with race overtones, or a race war with class overtones?
This is one of the more difficult questions that students of
modern history have to debate. If we must use the word war,



- 164 -


then I would say that the ratio varies with the area considered.
On a world scale it is probably a race war with class overtones,
simply because race and class so closely coincide in many areas—
and wherever this is true I think race is the more powerful force.
In England it is a class war with race overtones.
In the United States I would call it about fifty-fifty. If I had
to fall on one side or the other I might choose the race war with
class overtones. However, no matter what you decide, establishing
the scientific truth concerning human differences and educating
all the people in regard to them is essential to any solution.
There need be no war where enlightened justice controls the
policies of a society, both intra- and interracially. But you will
have ceaseless war where you inflame one side with groundless
expectations and imaginary wrongs while you plunder the other
side in the process. You will likewise have ceaseless war where
the top plunders the bottom.
You have criticized the South for not taking action to clear
up the race-differences point. I am a Southerner, and there are
three things I was taught as a child that a gentleman never did,
namely, insult a woman, be cruel to an animal or hurt the feelings
of a Negro.
This is all very well until the woman blackmails you, the
animal goes for your throat, or the Negro leadership begins to
undermine your civilization. I must remark that in my opinion
you have waited far too long to defend everything that as a gentleman
you were taught to value.
As a Southerner I feel it is up to Northerners to discuss race
differences. We are too deeply involved with the Negro and will
be called bigots and racists if we mention these differences.
Unfortunately this is true, but on the other hand there is
scarcely a Northern political leader who has had any experience
until recently with the Negro problem or has cared enough about
it to inform himself. Traditionally the Negro is a Southern, not
a Northern, problem. People tend to look to Southern leaders for
an explanation of the Negro's status in our society.
- 165 -

To illustrate the way Northerners react to your states' rights
and constitutional arguments (simply because they are misinformed
about your real argument), let me quote you parts of a
letter concerning the Civil Rights Bill written by Bishop Coadjutor
Harry Lee Doll of Baltimore to his diocese: "It is clearly evident
that the issue in this legislation is not that of States' Rights against
the encroachment of dictatorial Federal powers, as men like Governor
Wallace would have us believe. The real aim of the opponents
of this legislation is the continuation of an outworn and
immoral system of racial separation and degradation. Against this
I protest in the name of the God and Father of us all, whose love
and concern for all mankind regardless of race or color or creed
has been manifest in Jesus Christ our Lord."
Here is a man who at least appears36 to be bemused as to the
facts, a man of great influence with the public, and a man typical
of thousands of other religious leaders. This man's arguments you
never meet, and no one else has as much at stake in doing so as
you do.
I am a Southern political leader. Do you honestly expect me
to go out and say the Negro is inferior?
Great Scott! How many times must I point out that you do not
need to use either that word or that concept! The Negro is a
younger race. The public has been deceived as to this fact. The
evidence in Stell and Evers and their companion cases all points to
damage to the Negro as well as to the White child from integration,
because of differences not only in I.Q. but in subject interest
and problem approach. This evidence has been concealed, and
false evidence has been made the basis of a Supreme Court decision
which is undermining the health of our society. These are
the things you talk about, not "inferiority".
Let politicians in the North do it. They do not have Negro
families in their homes who have been there for generations.

- 166 -

Northern politicians have constituents who are more bemused
than yours. If these politicians started talking they would be
retired at the next election.
Southern politicians have done their best already. I remember
Governor Barnett wrote a letter to every governor of every state
in the country recommending they read, and urge the public to
read, Race and Reason. What more do you want?
I am deeply grateful to Governor Barnett and I have had the
utmost cooperation from other Southern governors, both in the
promotion of Race and Reason and in affording me platforms and
endorsement for speeches I have made in the South.
But this is not what I mean. What I say on this matter is of
minor importance. What they could say would be listened to,
particularly if they acted in concert, as for example by joint manifestoes
or on national television programs—or if they spoke individually
when they had national attention at the time of some
crisis such as Oxford or Selma. These are the opportunities which
always seem to be missed.
Get yourself elected to the Senate and maybe you will learn
something about politics. If we Southerners raise the question
of race differences we will lose the sympathy and help of Northern
conservatives who are with us on states' rights, decentralized
government, and similar issues.
You have me there. And you give me one more ground for
complaint against Northern conservatives. The latter make good
whipping-boys for liberals and that is about all. When they win
elections they do it by providing a slight variant in liberalism;
when they lose, they do it on grounds that make them a public
laughing stock. They appear as hard-bitten, discredited economic
reactionaries, longing for a depression, while the American people
are enjoying the greatest and most widely distributed prosperity
in history.
Meanwhile they leave in the barn the best horse they've got.
The man in the street is burning over the race issue, which is a


- 167 -


winning issue, even among the ignorant.37 Heavens knows he
would burn still more if he knew the truth! In any case it is not
so much centralization of power that the man in the street ought
to care about as it is centralization of power in the wrong hands.
Society today needs more co-ordination than it did fifty years
ago. You Southerners know this, and what is more, you like your
share of federal assistance. Both you and the Northern public
agree there. Your real enemy is not centralized government but
captive government—government captured by minority groups
heading a Negro parade and followed by a bemused mob of
dreamy-eyed fanatics, self-serving, short-sighted politicians, and
White renegades who prate about racism and practice black
racism themselves. These are dividing and confusing our native
majority and winning elections on a balance-of-power basis,
simply because you and your conservative friends will not give
the majority courageous and truthful leadership.
I may not be a politician but my advice to you is: either
convert your Northern conservatives or go it alone. Get your
country back in the hands of the people who built it, and you
will find a consensus on a new compound of liberal and conservative
policies.
Let Northerners learn from experience. With the influx of
Negroes to Northern cities they are learning already. Why should
we expose ourselves to attacks as racists when experience will
take care of the situation?
Judging by events in the fall of 1966, you may be right. But
I fear you mistake the problem, including the depth of the
hypnosis. What we learn from experience depends on how we
interpret it. If one has been taught to interpret the behavior of
the Negro as simply a reflection of one's own injustice, one gains
nothing but deeper hypnosis. Surely you realize that Northern
riots have been used as an excuse for more appeasement and more
White guilt.
Besides, every year you wait additional students graduate from



- 168 -


our colleges, North and South, steeped in the equalitarian deception.
This is where the trouble starts and where it must be
stopped soon or you will have no one left to hear you. What is
more, your truth-oriented scientists are growing old.
We have reached the point where the federal government must
act and must purge itself at the same time. All governments
throughout history have been plagued in varying degrees by
financial dishonesty. Contracts have been obtained by personal
influence and bribery, elections have been stolen and fortunes
made at the taxpayer's expense. But I know of no instance in
which intellectual dishonesty has been so widespread and is resulting
in such damage as is the case today in the area of race.
It is corrupting the integrity of otherwise blameless men to an
extent I have never heard of before.
What about guilt in the South? Does not the South have good
reason for guilt?
The South undoubtedly suffers feelings of guilt, both consciously
and unconsciously, concerning the old slavery days and the fact
that currently it does not always deal with the Negro in an ideal
manner. No society ever has. Some forms of non-social segregation
might have been discarded earlier. Some types of Southern
White men, as in the North, have treated Negroes with cruel contempt.
But there comes to mind a remark once made to me by
a leading Georgia business man who had sat on juries there from
time to time throughout most of his life. He said: "In all my
experience in the courts I have never seen a Negro get justice.
What he got was mercy."
You have spoken critically of President Johnson's domestic
policies. How do you feel about his foreign policies?
I believe they have been inept where and to the extent they have
been based on the false premise we have been discussing. There
are two points involved.
First, it is folly to assume without conclusive proof that any race
or substock either desires, or is capable of sustaining, a stable,
free society, or, indeed, any stable government.
- 169 -

Second, weak or backward peoples must be protected from
communist domination.
The only way I see of meeting both these requirements is
through the mandating of control over such peoples by an association
of advanced, free nations. If the backward or weak
peoples prove themselves capable of genuine democracy, it will
eventually become apparent and the mandate can then be vacated.
If not, and they seem capable of maintaining law and order under
variable degrees of monarchy, the mandate can also be terminated.
The destructive thing is to assume that every race and substock
either is or soon will be capable of maintaining a democracy. The
result is the collapse of law and order in many areas, followed
by loss of life, liberty and property and a consequent end to
civilization.
I will repeat what I said in Race and Reason: An advanced
nation receiving a mandate over a backward area cannot be
expected to act without reasonable compensation. Its citizens must
be allowed to invest and to see their investments protected. The
purpose of the mandate must not be to administer charity, but to
distinguish between a fair return and exploitation; the association
of nations granting the mandate must police the difference.
I noticed that in his State of the Union address on January 12,
1966, President Johnson said: "A peaceful world order will be
possible only when each country walks the way it has chosen for
itself. We follow this principle by encouraging the end of colonial
rule . . . by continued hostility to the rule of the many by the few
—or the oppression of one race by another."
Let us apply these ideas to Central Africa. When the Negro
walks the way he has chosen for himself we have ritual murder
and the murder of twins; we have the slow cutting of sections
from the groin, genitals, arms and faces of live human beings to
prepare fetishes, the blood being caught in billy-cans to moisten
the fetishes and the operation continuing until the victim dies.
We have human sacrifices for religious purposes; we have boys
and girls brought up for years in confined cages, their feet and
hands mutilated, so that they can eventually be fitted with claws


- 170 -


and become "lion-men", whereupon they are taught to murder
in such a way that the victim is believed to have been killed by
a lion; we have girl children tortured and terrified by initiation
rites so painful that they sometimes die of fright at the prospect
of the suffering; we have victims paraded alive before prospective
purchasers so that portions of their bodies may be marked off and
sold before the victim is slaughtered and eaten; and we have the
devouring of nuns to spice the cannibalistic lust for human flesh.38
Finally we have governments so unstable that the following
report in the New York Times, two days before Johnson's speech,
has become a commonplace. It records the circumstances surrounding
the arrival in Lagos of Prime Minister Wilson for a
conference of the British Commonwealth regarding Rhodesia:
"Lagos, Nigeria, . . . This sprawling seaport capital resembled
an armed camp as riot police attempted to crush mounting
violence by opposition party mobs that seek to embarrass Sir
Abubakar.
"Four more were killed last night in the suburb of Mushin,
bringing the total weekend death toll to 11 with more than 80
seriously injured. Early this morning one of the two main roads
from the airport was blocked by a curtain of flaming gasoline.
Policemen later dispersed the demonstrators with tear gas.
"The weekend's political warfare continues an upsurge of
violence that has taken more than 100 lives since October's parliamentary
elections . . ."
I do not hesitate to say that when a President of the United
States can stand before a national audience and take pleasure in
asserting that he is "encouraging" these private and public activities,
that he is going to show "continued hostility" to the control
of them, and that he considers such control "oppression", then
that man is in a trance dangerous to a "peaceful world order".
He is ignorant of the most elementary realities necessary to wise
policy.
Let me see if I can make one other thing clear: when a nation's
psyche is eroded by the assumption that although it has
struggled through centuries to achieve a standard of civilization,



- 171 -


a stability of government and a degree of power unsurpassed on
the face of the earth, it is nevertheless no better than races millenia
below it on the evolutionary scale—then that nation loses its self-respect
and the respect of all with whom it deals. Its power of
leadership and its force of example evaporate. As I have said
elsewhere, there is something in the most primitive people that
respects and tries to emulate the people or races that know
their own worth. They instinctively despise the kowtowing of
superiority to inferiority—and so do gangsters and other delinquents,
nationally and internationally.
Sad to say the United States in recent years has been in the
hands of leaders who lack any understanding of this fact. Had
they had it, we would not have gotten into our present predicament
throughout the world. We would have called, and successfully
called, the hand of communism again and again. There
would have been no need to use "the bomb".
My textbook on Africa says "it is the divine right of every people
to run its affairs in its own way; self-government, no matter
how bad, is more ennobling than non-self-government, no matter
how efficient; self-government with danger is infinitely better
than subservience with tranquility, and there can be no peace in
the world so long as men arrogate to themselves the right to
govern without the consent of the governed." Comment?
This is another example of perverted platitudes and bombast.
Turning the Negro loose does not result in "self-government"; it
always ends in some sort of black dictatorship, through military
or one-party rule, which in turn produces exploitation of the
average Negro, and other retrogression, far worse than colonial
rule. Your quotation sounds as if it were written by a black
gangster aching to get his hands on some loot, meanwhile laughing
up his sleeve that his abracadabra should work so well.
What troubles me is that any civilized White man should write
such nonsense. It discloses a total failure to understand or
appreciate his own civilization. He has forgotten, if he ever knew,
what centuries of effort it took to develope the capacity for self
government. He has no real comprehension of the worth of


- 172 -


what his forefathers bequeathed him. Consequently, he can
have little pride in himself as the legatee. It does not take many
of that sort to start the erosion I spoke of in answering the preceding
question.
I am troubled even more by the way this ingratitude is working
in our own society. Although I have mentioned it twice before,
I will repeat that one of the most alarming things about the
current one-man-one-vote slogan is its bearing on the Negro
problem. We have, or had, a reasonably healthy, free society
which we owed to a healthy inheritance. Now we propose to
inject into the blood stream of the body politic, without any
control whatever, a virus of Negro votes which, based on the
averages, is absolutely certain to undermine our "constitution".
It has never failed to produce sickness wherever and whenever
it has been tried, throughout the world and throughout history.
This should please White gangsters in search of loot.
But to get back to the specifics of your question, let me offer
an analogy, imperfect but perhaps instructive. Certain parents
decide to allow their children to run wild in the neighborhood,
without discipline or control, because this is their children's
divine right. They argue that delinquency with danger is infinitely
more ennobling than subservience with tranquility. Finally these
children begin to murder each other by setting fire to one another's
clothes. Some parents down the road object to the example being
set their children but the first parents call them reactionary and
threaten to use force to bring the latter's progeny into the carnage.
Does his picture gratify you?
If you dislike the present trend of things, what cure do you
suggest?
Tell the truth and let the public decide. I have more confidence
in the judgment of an informed Anglo-American electorate than
does the leftist who shouts "democracy" and "freedom" and then
achieves his ends by the roster of deceit I have presented. I
will wager that if, for a period of one year, the TV and radio
networks, the magazines, book publishers and newspapers, the
movies and the theater, in the United States and Britain, were to


- 173 -


tell the truth about race differences—were simply to present the
evidence on evolutionary grade — you would witness such a
political house cleaning as history seldom records.
Speaking of "turning the rascals out", you would observe a
turning out of fools and rogues by the thousands. What remained
of courts, Presidents and legislators would run bleating like sheep
to the opposite side of the issues. You would see an end to the
race problem in the United States and abroad within another
five years, and a sound administration of the affairs of backward
peoples within ten.
But if you now ask me how one goes about telling the truth
to millions who have been systematically and purposefully deceived
over two generations, when all your channels of instruction
are controlled by those responsible for the deceit, I must answer
that my visibility into that problem is limited. I can only say,
do the best you can.
Are not the Zionists and the international bankers really at the
bottom of this brotherhood movement?
It makes little difference now who is at the bottom of it. The
problem lies in the world-wide hypnosis on the subject of human
equality. This is not confined to any one group, and it can no
longer be solved by attacking any one group. We have seen that
countless millions sincerely believe in the equalitarian dogma; it
influences all their actions, including their votes. It is, if you like,
the weapon in the hands of the hard-core leftist. Talking about
international bankers today is like talking about states' rights or
the Constitution, it is a form of evasion—it avoids the difficult and
painful task of awakening the public from their trance.
Your philosophy is Hitlerian. In a world threatened by the
atom bomb what possible chance for peace is there unless all
races live in mutual respect and equality?
As to Hitler, the perversion of truth by evil men is no reason
for abandoning truth, any more than the evils of the Spanish
Inquisition were a reason to abandon Christianity. Race, being
of the very texture of man's being, is one of the fundamentals of


- 174 -


life. Another fundamental is the fact of differences between races
in evolutionary grade. Blindly ignoring such matters is a ticket to
destruction, especially in an atomic world.
The atom bomb was built by the intelligence and technology of
the world's most advanced race. There is some question whether
that race is mature enough to control what it created. But one
thing is obvious. If the bomb is allowed to drift into the hands
of races thousands of years less mature, it will be like putting
a loaded gun in the hands of a three year old child.
Meanwhile the world sits with a mixture of bandits and bemused
fanatics at the head of the Mongolian and Caucasian peoples,
while the Negroes join to make up a rag-tag conglomerate of
"independent" countries in the so-called United Nations. It is
about as foolish and dangerous a situation as could well be
imagined.
The chief responsibility lies with the United States. As the
world's most powerful nation, as the builder of the first atom
bomb, it was, and is, its duty to lead and to control. It has done,
and is doing, neither, except to the extent that it has sponsored and
encouraged the dissolution of the colonial system and the substitution
for it of the current chaos. The world is seething with racial
tensions and other disorders fostered by the official ideology of
the United States and Britain. The people who ask your kind of
question are responsible for the ideology.
You are a White supremacist. You . . .
At this point I put the question back in the folder and the
folder back in the brief case. The pattern was all too obvious and
had begun to be nauseating.
With few of these questioners could there by any real discussion.
They wished to fight, not to reason. Either that, or they had
become emotionally so incapable of facing the truth that any
device of diversion, evasion or even deceit was better than genuine
analysis.
The common denominator, in their case at least, was intellectual
dishonesty. Reasoning on the core question, the question of innate


- 175 -


race differences, was a waste of time, and consequently all the
rest of the debate became futile. These people simply would not,
indeed could not, engage in a sincere search for reality, perhaps
because they knew what they would find if they did.
Where, then, was the key, the answer, to the whole fantastic
situation?
I rose once more from my desk and paced the room. The first
glimmer of dawn came through the windows, but my brief
case seemed to offer no solutions. Was it possible there were
none? On one side stood the reactionaries, the modern Hitlers, the
people who gave the leftists the superficial plausibility of their
case. On the other stood the bemused humanitarians, oblivious of
the destruction they were causing, moving endlessly in circles
which returned them to the point where they started, still in a
trance.
But gradually it seemed to me I was catching a glimmer of
daylight, figuratively as well as literally. I walked over to an
eastern window and gazed for a moment toward the sea.
- 176 -

CHAPTER VII 
 VISTA AT DAYBREAK 
Far to the south across the Eastern Way and Bunker Ledge,
beyond Marsh Head and Little Cranberry, the flames of sunrise
were licking at the shores of Baker Island. Sutton and Great
Cranberry were still shrouded in mist. Duck Island was not yet
visible. I strained to distinguish the Lewis Rock spar before I
remembered I was searching for something harder to find than
buoys.
In one respect I was more fortunate than many. In my own
lifetime I bridged an unusual number of the years of change.
Winston Churchill's "old world in its sunset" was the world of
my childhood, years of naïveté in judgment, yet impressionable
years which had left some enduring recollections. As far as my
reading went, Richard Harding Davis, Rudyard Kipling, Robert
W. Service and Zane Grey were all part of my life when I was
twelve. In those uncrowded days I could appreciate what Service
had in mind when he wrote "the freedom, the freshness, the farness
. . . ." One need not have gone to Alaska in those years
to find it. I had found it in the Florida of 1910.
I had also witnessed, albeit as a small boy watching, such
scenes as Davis depicted in his novels and Gibson in his drawings.
Whether in Manila after the Insurrection or in the drawing rooms
of New York, I had seen in the flesh the Richard Harding Davis
hero and the Gibson girl. At home and in travel both in Europe
and the Orient I had savored the mood and spirit of those times.
Then came the first World War, the parades, the cheers, the
farewells and afterwards the telegrams that told of the death of
a soldier, but meant the death of something else besides, followed
by the speak-easy era, the era of the "lost generation", of Scott
Fitzgerald's characters in contrast to Davis's, of Warren G. Harding
and Teapot Dome in lieu of Theodore Roosevelt, of cartoons
like Dove's in the New Yorker, "Let's have the Schubert Serenade


- 177 -


and get some dirt into it," of disillusionment with the peace treaties
and with the League of Nations.
During the second World War there were fewer parades and
fewer cheers, but the same telegrams. Never had there been so
many of those messages in so short a span, all delivered between
1914 and 1946, scarcely more than one generation. While the
death toll was relatively small in the United States, in England
and on the Continent, at the heartland of our Western civilization,
it was appalling. Some nine million of the best men of the world's
best racial stocks were killed in the first World War alone.
These were the young men who, had they lived, would today
be in the seats of power and leadership—not just at the top, but
throughout all echelons of influence. War in those days attracted
young men whose strength of body and mind was above average,
young men with a capacity to set standards. These were the
ones who were missed when the time came when they would have
been middle-aged and old. From the standpoint of England—our
own special heartland—I could well understand Housman's lines:

"Oh, no, lad, never touch your cap;
It is not my half-crown;
You have it from a better chap
That long ago lay down.
Turn east and over Thames to Kent
And come to the sea's brim,
And find his everlasting tent
And touch your cap to him."

Yet while such losses must have contributed substantially to
the change in values in Europe, they could not be considered the
major cause. The United States showed an equal change, and
here the losses were not large enough to account for it. The source
must lie deeper.
And in searching for it, was not the first step to define just
what the differences in those values were? As I turned to my
desk, I asked myself the specific question. Having lived through
the whole gamut of change and borne witness from my youth to


- 178 -


the tone of the era before the first World War, what was the word
that best conveyed the nature of that tone?
Undoubtedly it was a compound of many factors. But as I
sought in memory to reconstruct the totality of it, my conviction
grew that the chief element was a regard for properly constituted
authority, for law as a symbol of right and of order, and for
earned distinction. It involved the willingness and courage to
look up to the superior and to disdain the inferior—in other
words, to discriminate. It included the capacity both to obey and
to command; a youth learned almost by breathing the air around
him that, to be able to command, he must first learn to obey—
above all to be master of himself.
Such a tone was not conducive to the appeasement of evil. It
involved a capacity for scorn and the nerve to express it. Among
those entitled to do so there was no hesitation in taking command,
no fear of asserting genuine leadership, no reluctance to give
orders or to rebuke insubordination—when the occasion required.
This was not something that prevailed only in the armed forces.
It prevailed between parent and child, between teacher and pupil,
between employer and employee.
Implicit in this tone was the firm and full acknowledgment of
human differences, both individual and racial, both genetic and
self-made. There was no fawning upon nor bootlicking of inferiority
or mediocrity. The necessity of earning the desirable things
of life, material and spiritual, and the rights accruing to those
who had earned them, were not controverted. The existence of the
criminal rich did not alter the ideal, nor was it altered by the right
of inheritance. The genes of a man's parents and of his grandparents
were as much a part of him, as much his property, as his
economic legacy, and on the average contributed to his ability
to use the latter wisely.
Yet still I searched the language for one word to cover the
qualities which the tone produced or which produced the tone. I
could come no closer to it than the noun honor which itself was
subject to many definitions and, as I thought about it, it seemed to
me that honor was as much the product of the tone as vice versa,
although when once produced the interaction was complete.
- 179 -

Before me among the final notes on my desk lay a hand-written
quotation I had found among my father's papers after his death in
World War I. It was copied from a novel of those days and it ran
as follows:
"Perhaps the most remarkable thing, then, in the character of
his mother—which, please God, he will have, or, getting all things
else, he can never be a gentleman—was honor. It shone from her
countenance, it ran like melody in her voice, it made her eyes
the most beautiful in expression that I have ever seen, it enveloped
her person and demeanor with a spiritual grace.
"Honor in what we call the little things of life, honor not as
women commonly understand it, but as the best of men understand
it—that his mother had. . . .
"If he be anything of a philosopher, he may reason that this
trait must have made his mother too serious and too hard. Let
him think again. It was the very core of soundness in her that
kept her gay and sweet. . . . She was of a soft-heartedness that
ruled her absolutely—but only to the unyielding edge of honor.
"Beyond this single trait of hers—which if it please God that he
inherit it, may he keep though he lose everything else—I set nothing
further down for his remembrance since naught could come of
my writing.
"But by words I could no more give an idea of what his mother
was than I could point him to a few measures of wheat and bid
him behold a living harvest."
I did not for one moment propose to suggest that the qualities
involved here were prevalent everywhere throughout our Western
civilization before the first World War. But I did bear witness
to the fact that they were more prevalent then than they are now.
And I would venture the guess that a connection existed between
them and what I called the championship held by the English-speaking
stocks in the maintenance of stable, free societies.
My suspicion grew that when it came to a choice between principle
on the one hand and self-interest on the other the average man
among these stocks would choose principle more often than the
average man among those stocks who had been less successful in
the management of freedom throughout the world—and that he
showed it in his face as well as in his actions.
As so often before, one needed to lay stress here on the concept


- 180 -


of average, or what the scientists called frequency. It would be
ridiculous to imply, for example, that the English-speaking stocks,
or even a majority of individuals among them, would always
choose principle above self-interest. It would be equally absurd
to suggest that many among even the least advanced of the world's
populations would never put principle above self-interest. It was
simply that, rare as the occasion might be, the frequency with
which an observer would find principle being put above self-interest
would be greater in the one case than in the other.
Did this have some relation to evolutionary grade? Like
intelligence, there was overlap, but intelligence and integrity were
far from synonymous. Could one advance the hypothesis that
where intelligence and integrity were combined, there one had the
highest evolutionary grade? It was an involved and complex business,
but could one not at least say that a stable, free society was
the product of both, and that in the proportion that either declined,
dry rot was diffused throughout the body politic?
Unless men in a community or a nation had confidence in the
integrity of their political, literary and religious leaders, of their
news media and their judiciary, they were walking in quicksand.
Modern society depended on the assurances people gave to one
another, in business, in marriage, in contracts of every sort.
Confidence in the honor of one's associates led first to courtesy
and respect, and then to sympathy. It oiled the machinery of
life from beginning to end. It gave meaning to trial by jury, it
validated taxation and above all it led to willing acquiescence by
the losers in elections. An honest victory of honest and intelligent
men held no terrors for an honest and intelligent minority. But
once confidence in a reasonable frequency of integrity was destroyed,
the whole basis for stability was gone. The playing fields
of Eton had been a symbol. In the narrow sense the symbol was
fair play—in the larger sense, honor.
And in the largest sense of all, was this not of the very essence
of the success of the English-speaking peoples, in the British Isles,
the United States, Canada, Australia, and New Zealand? Evolutionary
grade? One asked the question with caution. A precious
heritage certainly, something not to be ashamed of in the face


- 181 -


of attacks from those who had failed where we had succeeded—
and had come to us to enjoy the fruits of our success.
I picked up the faded page in my father's handwriting and
glanced at it once again.

"A soft-heartedness that ruled her absolutely—but . . ."

But only to the unyielding edge of honor—could one find a better
formula for kindness, for love in the context of family, community,
nation and world? Was it necessary to spell out every facet?
Obviously one did not tell the truth to a child who was dying of
an incurable disease, but where the truth was vital to the solution
of a problem one faced the truth, if one loved wisely.
So through the whole range of human welfare at home, abroad
and in race relations. If one lied here, if one corrupted the minds
of a nation, it would be the corruption that would win in the end,
not love. It would be the corruption that would spread everywhere
and destroy the loving and the loved together.
Compassion as the handmaiden of integrity was the crown of a
civilization. Compassion put before integrity meant disaster. Yet
the sincere liberal, as well as the hard-core leftist, had reversed
the order. Under the mask of the ideal of a more genuine humanity,
a wider sharing of the products of our industrial technology
and the cultural values of our civilization, he had proceeded to
undermine the very values themselves. Hypocrisy, deception,
equivocation, and cowardice had taken the place of honor.
Surely what the world now needed more than anything else was
a reorientation of the humanitarian impulse after its long perversion
by these forces. Smoothing the fur of evil was not kindness.
Releasing the forces of savagery in Africa was not goodness.
Abdicating one's racial responsibility for leadership was not wisdom.
Firmness in the right as God gave us to see the right meant
force and power and the exercise of authority and discipline
against evil. Once his fact was realized, respect and obedience
would follow where it was due, order would return to a befuddled
world, and genuine justice and mercy might at last prevail.
Provided—and this was the crux of the matter—provided the
truth were told, and there was somebody left to listen.
- 182 -

CHAPTER VIII 







 MORNING 
Where had the courage gone that was needed to tell the truth?
What had destroyed it? Where was the tone that had bred the
courage in years gone by? What had destroyed that?
Looking frankly at Britain and the United States one beheld a
strange situation. One saw an Anglo-American majority battered
and divided on other issues, guilt-ridden and bemused by the
equalitarian dogma; one observed a mass media saturating the
public with a scientific fraud promoted by a hierarchy whose aim
was not the search for truth but political propaganda; one found
ignorant political and judicial leaders, with mediocre minds and
little moral stamina, drawn from a society whose human resources
had been emasculated by two generations of compromise and
appeasement. These were some of the results of the destruction.
But they were not the source.
Nor could the source lie in the humanitarian impulse itself. The
drive for social justice and the awakening of sympathy for the unfortunate
were both good. Where the train ran off the track was
at the equalitarian switch—flashing false signals and manipulated
by envy. If there existed one crime more contemptible than any
other it was the use of good to promote evil. On this siding other
trains had been looted and destroyed. Would this one?
But still the question was not on point. Not proximate causes,
but the root cause alone could provide the key I sought. In the
closing pages of Race and Reason I had spoken of the leftward
overdrift of the West as justifying to my mind a term Ortega y
Gasset had used—"the sovereignty of the unqualified." I had also
quoted two sentences from Lord Tweedsmuir: "The gutters have
exuded a poison that bids fair to infect the world. The beggar on
horseback rides more roughshod over the helpless than the
cavalier."
This was strong language, perhaps too strong, but certainly


- 183 -


with the trend toward sympathy with failure—toward encouragement
of the underdog—had grown a tendency to disparage the
superior and to fawn upon the inferior. It was not a pretty sight,
this picture of the top abasing itself before the bottom. It did not
improve the bottom, and it meant rapid deterioration at the top.1
The good lost respect for goodness, and the bad lost respect for
it, too. Capacity for leadership dwindled, tolerance of evil increased.
Was there not here cause enough for the emasculation
of the values which had made the flowering of Western civilization
possible?
In other words, did not the equalitarian dogma, like a rank
growth, contain within itself not only the seeds of its own
proliferation, but of general collapse as well? Was this not the
point where the erosion of both the individual and the national
psyche began?
Let a man be told incessantly that everything he and his forefathers
had achieved was largely a matter of chance; that the
poverty and backward condition of other individuals and races
was also largely a question of luck—in fact perhaps even the
fault of himself and his forefathers; that his standards of morals,
fiscal responsibility and personal integrity were no better than
anyone else's; that his civilization was mostly happenstance and
really nothing much to be proud of; that since all humanity were
innately equal, all actual differences must be due to the other
man's misfortune and his own four-leaf clovers—let a man hear
these things often enough and his values were bound to change.
And the change must soon diffuse itself through the family, the
community and the nation. The child must begin to sense it in
the parent, the criminal in the court, the employee in the employer,
the citizen in his leaders. How seldom one saw the word distinguished
today! How seldom one dared to speak of a man as
discriminating! In other words in condemning the concept of inferiority,



- 184 -


our society necessarily had had to destroy the concept
of superiority, for one could not exist without the other.
With its destruction had come the death of respect for authority,
of pride in the achievements of the past, of reverence for tradition,
of the wisdom to honor the heritage of one's family, one's race and
one's country. Also had come the death of that quality in superior
men which sprang from confidence not only in their own personal
excellence but in that of their kind and race. This was the most
serious loss of all, for it was an electric quality that had once
communicated itself, with instant conviction, to others. With it
had passed the genius of true leadership, the power to lead up
the hill instead of down, to get a nation "moving again" morally
as well as economically.
It was, in fact, the quality that had given men the courage to
tell the truth. And thus one was back in the circle, which was
just what the hard-core leftist, and the communist, counted on,
and which the bemused humanitarian, and the castrated conservative,
obligingly tread like a squirrel in a cage—a vicious circle,
indeed, with just one point where it might be broken: by an
attack on the lie.
So this was the challenge—two generations of false indoctrination
to be overcome, an Anglo-American society saturated in a
debilitating fallacy to be cleansed. No doubt in due course the
Supreme Court would forbid the singing of Auld Lang Syne on
New Year's Eve, which would be consistent enough, and would
spare us even the memory of those who had given us all we had.
If ever there was a goose whose golden eggs were being stolen
and which was now in the process of being killed, we were it.
Not many years remained to correct the fallacy. The successors
to the last two generations were in the nursery this very minute,
and in the schools. Luckily life renewed itself in the family and
in the race. There might yet be enough of the genes for honor
left in the human fabric to respond to the truth in a new generation,
provided it, too, were not emasculated.
A hard task but a clear one. The sword of truth in the vital
area of race could cut the ground from under both socialism and
communism at one stroke if it were used. Let it be placed in the


- 185 -


hands of honorable men wherever possible, not to injure the
defenseless but to restore the strong.
In my own small sphere my testament would have to stand on
Race and Reason and on this brief review of what had happened
since. I had done enough meditating. The time had come to
speak.
And the key?
"Beyond this single trait of hers . . . I set nothing further down
for his remembrance . . ." I thought of the children of two bemused
generations. I could set nothing further down for them.
I heard a knock, the door to my study opened and my wife
stood on the threshold smiling wryly. I wondered about that
smile, and I wondered still more when she spoke.
"What a waste!" she said.
Could she be referring to a waste of time? Had she perceived
my purpose and deemed it hopeless? Then I noticed she was
looking over my shoulder, so I turned to follow her glance and
understood.
I had been sitting with the lights still on, at my desk and
around the room . . .
Yet here it was, broad daylight!
- 186 -


 INDEX 
ABC-TV, 32
Abortions, 156
Absorption of Negro, 117-18, 121
Africa. See specific items.
Alligator, 52, 125
Alpha Tests (World War I), 42
American Anthropological Asso-
ciation, 3, 5, 30-31, 33, 41
American Association for the Ad-
vancement of Science (AAAS),
35
American Association of Physical
Anthropologists, 32-33
American Dilemma, 70
American Federation of Teachers,
124
American Psychologist, 58n, 60
Anglo-American racial amalgam
defined, 11n
Animal Species and Evolution, 54n,
105
Anthropology A to Z, 104n
"Antileadership Vaccine," 163n
Ape, 51, 55
Armstrong, Clairette, 75, 80-81
Army General Classification Test,
115
Atlantic Monthly, 30, 116
Atomic bomb, 37, 171, 174
Australia, 36
Australopithecenes, 106
Avoidance-and-diversion technique,
26, 34-38, 82
B
Baldwin, James, 158-9
Bantu, 56, 63
Barnett, Ross R., 166
Bean, Bennet, 52
Benedict, Ruth, 21-23
Bennett, E. L., 113
Biasutti, Renato, 29
Bible, 149
Biology of the Race Problem, 3,
42-43, 65n
Bloch, Charles, 75
Boas, Franz, 16-20, 23, 25-26, 29,
34, 41, 67, 69-71, 73
Bolivia, 47n
Bolton, J. S., 52
Brain, comparative anatomy of, in
alligator, 52, 125; in ape, 51,
55; in dog, 51; in Eskimo,
101; in Neanderthal man, 102;
in porpoise, 82, 105-6; in
rabbit, 50; in rat, 113-4; in
White and Negro, 4, 48-53,
55, 82-85, 103, 107; compara-
tive electrophysiology of
White and Negro, 55-56; com-
parative kinesthetic matura-
tion rates of, 55, 97-99; im-
portance of frontal lobes of,
49-50; loss of cells of, 102
Brazil, 110
Briggs vs. Elliott, 71
British Journal of Statistical Psy-
chology, 58n
British Medical Journal, 84
Brodmann, K., 50n
Broken Hill specimen, 101, 109
Brooke, Edward, 126
Brotherhood, 7, 144, 152
Brown vs. Board of Education of
Topeka, 36, 69, 70-71, 75, 120,
139, 141-3
Burt, Cyril, 58n, 71, 81
Business leaders, U.S., 148, 162-3
Buswell, James O., 43n
C
Cahn, Edmond, 141-3
Canella, Mario, 29
Cannibalism, 15, 170
Capital, 16n
- 187 -
Index
Caucasian race, 11, 62, 101, 104,
109, 114, 117, 125, 127, 153,
174. See also Negro
Central African Republic, 2
Centralized government, 167
Cerebral Cortex of Man, 50n
Chein, Isador, 21
Chicanery, 26, 41-44, 82, 86
China, 37, 109.
Chinese, 155
Christ, 144, 149, 165
Christian religion, 149, 173. See
also Religious leaders.
Churchill, Winston, 140, 176
Citizens' Councils of America, 135
Civil Rights Act, 1, 126, 165
Civil War, 139
Clark, Kenneth B., 21, 71-72, 74,
87, 113, 142
Class or race war, 163-4
Climate and Negro retardation, 64-
65; and preservation of fossils,
109
Cold Spring Harbor Symposia, 53n
Colonial system, 6-7, 161, 171,
174
Columbia University, 18, 20-21, 41,
112
Columbia University Readings, 22n
Commoner, Barry, 35
Communism, 8-9, 151-2, 155,
161-3, 169, 184
Congo, 2, 115, 124, 144, 155, 161
Congressional Record, 35, 49n,
150n
Connolly, C. J. 4, 48, 49n, 50
Conservatives, 7-8, 166-7, 184
Constitution, U.S., 35, 128, 132,
139, 173
Coon, Carleton B., 32-34, 42,
53-54, 57n, 75, 83-84, 101n-
102n, 104n, 105, 107, 112
Courrier, 56n
Covenant Cases, 68, 70
Cowart, Walter, 75
Crile, George, 52
Cultural deprivation, 104
Current Anthropology, 55n
D
Dahomey, 2
Darlington, C. D., 27
Darwin, Charles, 28
Davis, John W., 69-70
Dean, R.F.A., 97
Declaration of Independence, U.S.,
144
Descent of Man, 28
Diamond, M. C., 113
Disease and Negro retardation,
64-65
Dobzhansky, Theodosius, 21, 26,
54, 112
Dog, 51
Doll, Harry Lee, 165
Doll tests, 71-73, 142
Dolphin. See Porpoise
Dunn, L. C., 21, 26
E
Egypt, 63, 108
Eisenhower, D. D., 10, 31
Electrophysiology. See Brain
Emrich, R., 150n
Engels, F., 16, 17n
England, immigration of Negroes
into, 4711
English-speaking peoples defined,
11n
Environment, attempts to equate
White and Negro, 39, 60-61,
111, 119
Environment vs. heredity. See
Genetics
Envy, 96, 146, 148
Equality, dogma of, 2, 4n, 8-9, 48,
144, 161-2, 168, 173-4, 182-3
Equality, before the law, 130; of
opportunity, 133
Erlenmeyer-Kimling, L., 58n, 71
Eskimo, 101
Ethiopians, 63, 108
Evers vs. Jackson School District,
73n, 87n, 94, 120-4, 143, 150,
165
Evolution of the Human Brain,
53n
- 188 -

Evolutionary status (grade), 33,
53, 55, 98-99, 103-4, 106, 144,
153, 154-6, 159-160, 171, 180
Exceptional Negro. See Negro, ex-
ceptional
External Morphology of the Pri-
mate Brain, 4, 48, 49n
F
Fairchild, Henry Pratt, 19
FBI, 46n, 118, 161
Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals,
U.S., 77-79, 91-94, 142-3
Fischer, Eugen, 38-39
Fisher, Ronald, 27-28
Fossil man sites, 109
14th Amendment, 35, 139, 141
France, Anatole, 102
Free enterprise, 162-3
Freeman, F. N., 58n, 71
Freeman, W., 50
Friedman, Murray, 116
Frontal lobes. See Brain
Fuller, S. B., 133n-134n
G
Galileo, Galilei, 88, 153
Gallais, P., 56n
Gardner, John W., 163n
Garrett, Henry B., 29, 36, 41, 58-
59, 60-61, 74-75, 77-81
Gates, R. Ruggles, 4, 29, 71, 105
Gayre, Robert, 62n, 63, 64n 108n
Geber, Marcelle, 55-56n, 97-99
Genetic inequality universal, 145-6
Genetics, 28-29, 56-58, 76-77, 81,
83, 89-90, 105, 117, 128-30,
145-6
Geography of Intellect, 144
George, W. C., 3, 18, 20-21, 22n,
30, 34-36, 37n, 42-43, 50n, 51,
74-75, 81-85
Gesell, Arnold, 99
Glands, 57, 84, 107
Goldenweiser, Alexander,
22-23
Goldwater, Barry, 141

Gordon, H. L., 52
Goren, Charles, 120
Group identification, 87, 90, 122-3
Guillon, L., 102n
Gunther, John, 110
H
Hagerty, James C., 34n
Hair, 154
Haiti, 46, 47n, 111, 155
Halstead, Ward C., 49
Handlin, Oscar, 30
Hardin, Garrett, 4
Harding, Warren G., 176
Harvard University, 32, 42, 161
Harvey, William, 153, 183n
Hate, 96
Hawaii, 155
Heredity. See Genetics
Heredity and Human Nature, 58n
Herskovits, Melville, 20-21, 23
Heuse, Georges A., 23n
Hitler, Adolph, 27, 124, 173, 175
Holzinger, K. J., 58n, 71, 81 
Homo erectus, 53-54, 100-1, 105-6,
108-9
Homo sapiens, 53-54, 100-1,
105-6, 108-9
Hook, Sidney, 16, 23n
House Un-American Activities
Committee, 20
Housman, A. B., 177
Howard, Margaret, 58n, 71
How Classroom Desegregation Will
Work, 59n
Howells, William W., 34-35
Hughes, Charles Evans, 68
Human dignity, 143, 146
Huxley, Julian, 117
I
Identical twins, 58
Immigration, 6, 141
Immigration Commission, 19
India, 160
Indians, Andean, 47n
Indians, North American, 101
- 189 -

Industrial leaders, U.S., 148, 162-3
Inside Africa, 110
Intelligence quotient (I.Q.), 46,
116-8, 125. See also Negro.
Intermarriage, 100, 114, 119, 121,
125-6; effect upon total U.S.
population of, 117
Iron smelting, 108
J
Jacobi, Abraham, 17
Japanese, 117, 155
Jarvick, L., 58n, 71
Jefferson, Thomas, 144
Jews, 19-20, 23n, 69, 115, 117,
138, 155, 173
John Birch Society, 9
Johnson, Ludwell H., 134-5
Johnson, President, 9-10, 155,
168-170
Joint Legislative Committee, N.Y.,
report of, 22
Journal of Anatomy, 51n, 85
Jury duty. See Negro, on juries.
K
Kampala, Uganda, 55, 97
Kappers, C. U. Ariens, 99
Kardiner, Abram, 17n-18n
Keegan, J. J., 49
Keith, Arthur, 29
Kelly, Alfred H., 71n, 73, 74n
Kennedy, W. A., 59n
Kennedys, the, 10
Kent County Negroes, 65n
Kenya, 51
Kinesthetic maturation rates. See
Brain
Kineberg, Otto, 18, 21, 26, 42-43,
74
Kluckholn, Clyde, 3, 5
Krober, A. L., 62
L
Lagos, Nigeria, 170
Langworthy, G. R., 106n
League of Nations, 110
Leakey, L. S. B., 106

Leftist defined, 148-9
Lenz, Fritz, 27-28
Leonard, George, 75-76, 80, 94,
120
Liberia, 109-10
Lincoln, Abraham, 134-7
Linnaeus (Carl von Linne), 28
Linton, Ralph, 107
Lundman, Bertil, 29
M
Mandates, colonial, 161, 169
Mankind Quarterly, 50n-51n, 58n,
62n, 64n, 152n
Man's Most Dangerous Myth, 24-
25
Marriage. See Intermarriage
Marshall, Thurgood, 71, 73
Marx, Karl, 14, 16-17
Mass media, 2, 12, 26, 30-33, 36,
38, 44-45, 66, 172, 180, 182
Massey, William, 152
Mayr, Ernst, 54n, 105
McGurk, F.C.J., 61n
Mead, Margaret, 21, 23, 57, 112
Medecine Tropicale, 56n
Meroe, 108
Mind of Primitive Man, 18
Minnow, Newton M., 34n
Minority groups, 9, 11-12, 20, 24-
25, 167
Minority scientific view, on race
differences, 88, 128
Minors, exceptional, and laws re-
tricting, 92-93, 119
Mongolian (Oriental) race, 62,
101, 109, 127, 155, 174
Montagu, Ashley, 21, 24-27, 57,
74, 112
Moors, 63
Morant, G. M., 19
Morgane, P. J., 106n
Moro reflex, 98n
Moscow, UNESCO convention in,
37
Motley, Constance, 66, 75-83, 85
Moynihan, Daniel, 155n
Mulatto, 123, 154, 157
- 190 -

Muller, H. J., 27, 29
Mundy-Castle, A. C., 56n
Myrdal, Gunnar, 70-71
Myth of the Negro Past, 23
N
NAACP (National Association for
the Advancement of Colored
People), 66, 67-69, 71, 73-76,
85, 91, 94, 139-40
National Education Association,
124
National Putnam Letters Commit-
tee, 18n-19n, 31, 74, 152n
National Review Bulletin, 113
National Socialists, 39
Natural History of Man, 15
NBC-TV, 24
Neanderthal man, 102
Negro, absorption of, 117-8, 121;
in Africa, 2, 15, 61-65, 107-8,
110, 156, 158, 169-70; debt to
White man, 145, 158-9; and
"divine right" to self-rule, 171;
exceptional, 87, 90-93, 100,
120-3, 125-6, 147; false public
belief concerning, 5n-6n; "in-
feriority" of, 3n, 120, 145-6,
165; per cent integrated, 1-2;
jobs available for, 147, 157;
on juries, 133; relative per-
formance of, in crime, 46,
118; in cultural achievement,
61-65, 110, 130; in illegiti-
macy, 46, 111, 118, 156-7; on
intelligence tests, 42, 46, 58-
60, 76, 79, 81, 89, 115, 117,
124; problem summarized, 96,
145, 173; in segregated
schools, 113, 127; voting
rights for, 130-1, 136, 141,
172; White liberals on run
from, 159. See also Brain.
Negro in American Civilization,
56n
Negro Family: The Case for Na-
tional Action, 46n, 155-6

"New Fanatics," 152
New Republic, 43
New School for Social Research,
22-24 
New York Herald Tribune, 37n,
134n
New York Times, 30, 34, 76, 113n,
170
New York University Law Review,
142n
Newman, H. H., 58n, 81
Nigeria, 2, 170
Nubian dynasty, 63
O
One-man-one-vote concept, 132-3,
172
Open housing, 9, 128-30
Origin of Races, 33-34, 42, 53-54,
57n, 75, 83-84, 102n, 107, 112
Ortega y Gasset, Jose, 182
Osborne, R. T., 60n, 75-77, 79
Overlap. See Negro, exceptional
P
Palmer, Arnold, 118
Papez, James, 48
Parable of diligent man, 151
Patterns of Culture, 22-23
Pearl, Raymond, 52-53n
Peele, Talmadge, 82-83
Penfield, Wilder, 49, 50n, 106
Perkins, Charles C., 42
Perkins vs. Trustees of Monroe
Ave. Church, 68n
Persecution of scientists, 26, 39-41,
154
Pfeiffer, John E., 102n
Pittman, Carter, 75, 82-83, 85
Pleistocene, 54
Plessy vs. Ferguson, 67n
Pope, The, 146
Porpoise, 82, 105-6
Possony, Stefan T., 144
Porteus, S. D. 29
Poynter, C.W.M., 49
Princeton University, 110
- 191 -

Pritchard, J. C., 15
Progress, demand for, 134,140
Psychology, 56-61. See also Negro
Public accommodations, 128-30,
139
Putnam Letters Committee. See
National Putnam Letters Com-
mittee
Pyramidal system, 98-99
R
Rabbit, 50
Race. See specific items
Race classifications, 104
Race Concept, 27
Races of Mankind, 23
Race and Nationality, l9n
Race and Reason, 1, 4n, 6, 23,
31n-33, 43n, 62n-65n, 73n,
141n, 182
Race and Science, 26n
Rasmussen, Theodore, 50n, 106
Rats, experiments on, 113-4
Religious leaders, 2, 7, 45, 66,
150, 153-4, 165, 180
Republican Party, 8, 137, 141
Reuter, E. B., 68n
Revue de Psychologie des Peuples,
23n
Rhodesia, 63, 101, 109, 131, 170
Rife, D. C., 58n
Rift Valley, 106
Rising Tide of Color, 15, 16n
Rockefeller, Nelson, 10
Roosevelt, Theodore, 11, 176
Ross, E. A., 17n, 19n
Rudwick, Elliott M., 160
Rumford Act, 9
S
St. Paul, 12, 154
Salamander, 154
Samson, Otto, 19
Schreiber, Herman and Georg, 63n
Schurz, Carl, 17
Science, 4n, 35, 53n, 58n, 113n

Science in Brown vs. Topeka de-
cision, 36, 141-3
"Science and the Race Problem,"
35-36
Scranton, William W., 141
Segregation, 113, 125, 128, 138,
140, 142. See also Supreme
Court
Sequeira, James H., 84
Shuey, Audrey, 46n, 58
Silver, James W., 30n
Simmons, Donald C., 43, 52
Smith, Howard K., 33
Social justice, 10, 182
Social situation defined, 128
Socialism, 8, 9, 14, 155, 161-3,
184. See also Leftist
Society for the Psychological Study
of Social Issues (SPSSI), 60-61
South Africa, 140
South, avoidance of race-differ-
ences issue by, 164-68
Spanish Inquisition, 173
Standard of living, U.S., source
of, 162
Stansgate, Viscount (Wedgewood
Benn), 160n
Statement on Race (UNESCO),
26-27, 29-30, 38
Stell vs. Savannah Board of Educa-
tion, see generally Chap. IV, V;
also, 36, 60n, 74, 120, 150, 165
Stoddard, Lothrop, 15
Story of Man, 54n, 101n
Study of History, 64n
Sturtevant, A. H., 27, 29
Supragranular layer, 51-52, 84-85
Supreme Court, U.S, 68-70, 75,
92-93, 129, 139, 141-2, 184
Supreme Court, U.S, school inte-
gration decision, 1, 7, 36, 66,
69-74, 91-92, 94, 126, 128, 150,
165
Susskind, David, 24
Switzerland, 132
T
Tanser, H. A., 65n
- 192 -

Terman, L. M., 59
Testing of Negro Intelligence, 46n,
58
"These are the Guilty," 34n
Tilney, Frederick, 52, 53n
Timbuktu, 63
Tinder, racial, responsive to flame
of civilization, 62, 101, 103
Todd, T. Wingate, 52, 53n
Toynbee, Arnold J., 64
Transcript of Proceedings, Stell,
76n
Tredgold, A. F. and R. F., 99
Truman, President, 25
Tuttle, Elbert P., 77, 79
Tweedsmuir (John Buchan), 182
Twins, identical, 58
Twins: A Study of Heredity and
Environment, 58n
U
Undocumented-assertion technique,
26-34, 82, 88
UNESCO, 22, 24, 26, 27, 37
UNESCO Statement on Race. See
Statement on Race
Uniform Crime Reports (FBI),
46n 
United Nations, 26, 160-1, 174
See also UNESCO.
U.S. News and World Report,
91n, 118n
University of Connecticut, 43
University of North Carolina, 22n
Upper Volta, 2

V
Van den Haag, Ernest, 72n, 75,
87-88, 92
Vanished Cities, 63n
Vanished Civilizations of the An-
cient World, 63
Vint, F. W., 51-53n, 83-85, 99, 113
Von Bonin, G., 53n
Vose, Clement E., 67n-69n
Voting rights. See Negro, voting
rights.
W
Wallace, George C., 165
Washington Post, 6, 134n
Watts, J. W., 50
Watts riot, 160
Webster, Daniel, 133
Weeks, Edward, 30
Weltfish, Gene, 21, 23, 112
Western Reserve Law Review, 67n
Weyl, Nathaniel, 56, 65, 144
Wheaton College, 43n
White man. See Brain and Negro,
relative performance.
Wilson, Harold, 170
Witty, Paul, 121
Women, exceptional, and laws re-
tricting, 92-93, 119
World War I, 8, 121, 176, 179
World War II, 115, 177
Z
Zimbabwe, 63, 64n
Zionists, 173

- 193 -

1. Wesley C. George, Ph.D., Professor of Histology and Embryology,
emeritus, and for ten years head of the Department of Anatomy, University
of North Carolina Medical School; past president, North Carolina
Academy of Science.
2. The choice of the word "inferior" to arouse anger rather than reason
among readers or listeners is characteristic of the equalitarian. Phrases
such as "limitations of capacity" or "a race younger on the evolutionary
scale" are available but avoided by them.

3. As used in this book, "equalitarian" means one who subscribes to the
dogma that for all practical purposes all races are innately (genetically)
equal in intelligence and character, and that the differences between them
are due chiefly to environment rather than to heredity.
4. The American Anthropologist, Dec. 1959, Vol. 61, No. 6.
5. C. J. Connolly, External Morphology of the Primate Brain, 1950,
Springfield, Ill. For the significance of sulcification (fissuration) as a measure
of innate mental ability, see infra, p. 50.
6. Science, April 29, 1960.
7. In the introduction to Carleton Putnam, Race and Reason: A Yankee
View, 1961, Washington, D.C. Cited hereafter as Race and Reason.

8. For further examples, see infra, Chap. II.
9. A Southern friend of mine with wide experience in press and public



relations once remarked to me that Southerners did not believe the public
really was deceived. "Any man," he said, "who thinks the average Negro
is innately the intellectual equal of the average White man is too dumb to
argue with." When I told him that polls taken in 1942 and again in 1956
by the National Opinion Research Center had shown, as of 1942, that 20%
of White Southerners and 50% of White Northerners assumed equality,
and that by 1956 80% of the Northerners and 60% of the Southerners held
this opinion, he was incredulous. Scientific American, Dec. 1956, pp. 35-39.
These polls combined Southern and Border states. Harris polls taken
in 1963 and 1965 give later breakdowns, probably on a different allocation,
but showing as of 1965 a 65% assumption of equality in the North. Washington
Post, Oct. 18, 1965.

10. See infra, Chapters IV -V.

11. The substocks of the Caucasian race which I call interchangeably
English-speaking or Anglo-American were well defined by Theodore
Roosevelt in 1881: "On the New England Coast the English blood was
as pure as in any part of Britain; in New York and New Jersey it was
mixed with that of the Dutch settlers—and the Dutch are by race nearer
to the true old English of Alfred and Harold than are, for example, the
thoroughly Anglicized Welsh of Cornwall. Otherwise, the infusion of new
blood into the English race [more accurately, English amalgam] on this
side of the Atlantic has been chiefly from three sources—German, Irish,
and Norse; and these three sources represent the elemental parts of the



composite English stock in about the same proportions in which they were
originally combined—mainly Teutonic, largely Celtic, and with a Scandinavian
admixture. The descendant of the German becomes as much an
Anglo-American as the descendant of the Strathclyde Celt has already become
an Anglo-Briton . . . It must always be kept in mind that the Americans
and the British are two substantially similar branches of the great
English race, which both before and after their separation have assimilated,
and made Englishmen of many other peoples. . . ." Works of
Theodore Roosevelt, National Ed., 1926, New York, Vol. VI, p. 23.

1. James Cowles Prichard, The Natural History of Man, 2nd Ed., 1845,
London, p. 1.
2. Encyclopedia Britannica, 9th ed. (American Reprint), 1884, Vol. 17,
p. 318.

3. Lothrop Stoddard, The Rising Tide of Color, 1921, New York, pp.
90-92.
4. See infra, Chap. III; for example, it is now generally agreed among
students of the problem, as the result of experiments with identical twins,
that heredity outweighs environment (culture) in its influence on human
beings by a ratio of about 3 to 1 on the average.
5. Sidney Hook, "Karl Marx and Max Stirner," The Modern Monthly,
Oct. 1933, Vol. 7, No. 9, p. 554.
6. F. Engels, The Origin of the Family, Private Property, and the State,
1965, Moscow.
7. Karl Marx, Capital, 1947, New York, Vol. I, p. 287.

8. Initially, and before Boas' time, anthropology in the United States was
the handmaiden of sociology, a science in which Lester Ward was considered
the pioneer. Ward was an instructor at the Rand School of Social
Science, operated by the American Socialist Society. Curiously enough,
both he and his colleague E. A. Ross originally held the classical view of
race. In 1905 Ross said, "The superiority of a race cannot be preserved
without pride of blood and an uncompromising attitude towards the lower
races." E. A. Ross, Foundations of Sociology, 1905, New York, p. 379.
In 1938 he would be saying: "What makes . . . Congolese a mystery to us
is not mental quirk but cultural background . . . Given our training, their
minds would work as ours." E. A. Ross, Principles of Sociology, 1938,
New York, p. 256.
9. Abram Kardiner and Edward Preble, They Studied Man, 1961, Cleveland,
p. 135.
10. Marx-Engels, Briefwechsel, Dietz Verlag-Berlin, published under the
direction of the Marx-Engels-Lenin Institute, Moscow, 1949, Vol. II p. 117.
11. For biographies of both Jacobi and Mary Putnam, see American
Dictionary of Biography, 1932, New York, Vol. 9.

12. So classified by the Encyclopedia Britannica, 11th ed., Vol. XIX,
p. 579.
13. Kardiner and Preble, op. cit., p. 137.
14. Franz Boas, The Mind of Primitive Man, 1911, New York; ibid.,
Rev. Ed., 1938, New York.
15. Otto Klineberg, Race and Psychology, 1951, UNESCO, Paris.
16. Wesley C. George, The Biology of the Race Problem, National



Putnam Letters Committee Reprint, 1962, New York, p. 81. Cited hereafter
as George. Compare similar contradictory statements by E. A. Ross,
supra, p. 17n. Persons who desire copies of Dr. George's work or other
Putnam Letters Committee publications may now obtain them by addressing
the Committee at Suite 904, 1730 K St., N.W., Washington, D.C. 20006.
17. Henry Pratt Fairchild, Race and Nationality, 1950, New York, p.
105. All of Chap. VII is recommended to the student of politically
motivated scientific propaganda.

18. Ibid., p. 104.
19. Melville Herskovits, Franz Boas, 1953, New York, p. 118.
20. Investigation of Un-American Propaganda Activities in the United
States: Special Committee on Un-American Activities, House of Representatives,
1944, Appendix, Part IX.

21. Herskovits, op. cit., p. 65.
22. On this point Dr. George comments: "At the University of North
Carolina there is a course called Modern Civilization. This course is required
of all freshmen and is prerequisite to other courses in History.
Upon investigation, I found that one of the first required readings in the
course is the integration tract by Otto Klineberg in Columbia University
Readings in Race, Personality, and Culture. The library had on reserve
three shelves full of the book to meet the calls of freshmen for this required
reading. . . . Further investigation revealed that both at Columbia
University and at the University of North Carolina, additional readings
suggested are by people who have demonstrated a strong integration slant
. . . It seems proper to ask, Why was no opposing point of view presented
in these courses on so vital and controversial a subject?" George, p. 86.
23. Ruth Benedict, Patterns of Culture, 1959, New York.
24. Revolutionary Radicalism: Its History, Purpose and Tactics, a Report
of the Joint Legislative Committee Investigating Seditious Activities, filed
April 24, 1920, in the Senate of the State of New York. Part I, Revolutionary
and Subversive Movements Abroad and at Home, Vol. I, New York,
p. 1121.

25. Sidney Hook, Ruth Benedict, Margaret Mead, "Alexander Goldenweiser:
Three Tributes," The Modern Quarterly—A Journal of Radical
Opinion, Summer 1940, Vol. XI, No. 6, p. 32.
26. Race and Reason, p. 18 n.
27. "Goldenweiser interested both Ruth Benedict and Melville Herskovits,
who entered anthropology from the New School at the same period,"
Margaret Mead, An Anthropologist at Work: Writings of Ruth Benedict,
1959, Boston, p. 8.
28. Melville Herskovits, The Myth of the Negro Past, 1958, Boston, p.
30. A somewhat different view is taken by the French anthropologist
Georges A. Heuse. In an article entitled "Race, Racismes, Antiracismes"
in the Autumn 1965 issue of Revue de Psychologie des Peuples, Heuse
remarks ". . . we can only hope that precious time will not be lost in
recognizing the fallacy of equalitarian anti-racism. . . . In our effort to
respect the full complexity of bio-physical and bio-sociological human
phenomena, we often meet opposition from Jewish academicians who pose
as champions of egalitarianism. . . . These champions, whose power and



cleverness we admire, often believe that in denying race and racial psychology,
they suppress at one and the same time both racism and anti-semitism.
We are indeed surprised at their naive and erroneous belief."
29. U.S. District Court, Philadelphia, Sept. 25, 1940. Certificate No.
4931109. See also Marriage License Bureau, Borough of Manhattan, Certificate
No. 22375, concerning marriage of Montagu to Helen M. Peakes on
Sept. 18, 1931 at the Municipal Building, Manhattan, in which Montagu
gives his mother's name as Plotnick.

30. Ashley Montagu, Man's Mast Dangerous Myth: The Fallacy of Race,
1942, New York, p. 82.
31. 87th Congress, 2nd Session, House Document 398.

32. Race and Science: The Race Question in Modern Science, 1961, New
York, p. 498.

33. Ibid., p. 494.

34. See, for example, James W. Silver, Mississippi: The Closed Society,
1964, New York, p. 27.
35. My request for sur-rebuttal under date of June 16, 1964, was not
acknowledged.

36. The National Putnam Letters Committee was successor to the original
Committee formed in Birmingham in 1958. See Race and Reason,
p. 12.
37. See Race and Reason, pp. 12-14.

38. The transcript is verbatim.
39. Carleton S. Coon, The Origin of Races, 1962, New York.

40. I wrote a protest to James C. Hagerty, Vice President of ABC, on
October 18, 1962, with copies to Nationwide Insurance Co., sponsor of the
program, and Newton H. Minow, Chairman of the Federal Communications
Commission. No reply was ever received from any of them.
41. Dec. 9, 1962.
42. I examined them in a speech before the Washington Putnam Letters
Club on Feb. 12, 1963; see "These Are the Guilty," published by the
National Putnam Letters Committee, supra, p. 14n.

43. A footnote to the article read as follows: "The members of the committee
are Barry Commoner, Washington University, chairman; Robert B.
Brode, University of California; T. C. Byerly; Ansley J. Coale, Princeton
University; John T. Edsall, Harvard University; Lawrence K. Frank;
Margaret Mead, American Museum of Natural History; Walter Orr
Roberts, National Center for Atmospheric Research (ex officio AAAS
Board representative); Dael Wolfle (ex officio). Responsibility for statements
of fact and expressions of opinion contained in this report rests with
the committee that prepared it. The AAAS Board of Directors, in accordance
with Association policy and without passing judgment on the view expressed,
has approved its publication as a contribution to the discussion of
an important issue."
44. In Science on Dec. 13, 1963; in the Congressional Record on
June 23, 1964, p. A3427.

45. Brown vs. The Board of Education of Topeka, the case in which the
Supreme Court ordered the desegregation of schools. See infra, Chap. IV.

46. It was not that one objected to scientists expressing their political
views. George and other truth-oriented scientists did this. One objected
to the political views as a substitute for science and to the prostitution of
the authority of scientific organizations by its use in support of political
propaganda. George and his colleagues debated the scientific issues and
took their political position upon the facts. The hierarchy did neither.
47. See, for example, the New York Herald Tribune, Oct. 2, 1964, p. 3.

48. For further examples see Race and Reason, p. 19.
49. For 16 years Dr. Garrett headed Columbia's Department of Psychology.
He is Past President of The Eastern Psychological Association;
the Psychometric Society; and the American Psychological Association. He
is a Fellow, AAAS, and a former member of the National Research Council.
He is a member of the editorial board of Psychometrika and, for 20
years, was general editor of The American Psychology Series.

50. Supra, p. 5.
51. Supra, p. 34.
52. On the Alpha tests the average White score for the nation was 59,
that of the average Northern Negro 39 and that of the average Negro in the
best Northern state, Ohio, 49.5. The White score in Ohio was 67.

53. It is hard to know whether to classify such cases under chicanery or
under inexcusable ignorance. I am reminded of another case in which a
member of the Wheaton College faculty studying for a Ph.D. in (cultural)
anthropology wrote a book (James O. Buswell III, Slavery, Segregation,
and Scripture, 1964, Grand Rapids) in which he devoted an entire chapter
to an attack on Race and Reason, the burden of this chapter being that
"culture . . . is so dominant a factor [in determining behavior] that for
the comparative study of human society all other factors must be treated as
if they finally cancelled out." How any modern preceptor in anthropology
could write such a sentence in view of the 3 to 1 ratio of heredity over
environment now generally accepted by geneticists (infra, p. 58), remains
a mystery.

54. For results of a more thorough consideration, see infra, pp. 117-8.

1. The Negro Family: The Case for National Action, 1965, Office of
Policy Planning and Research, U.S. Department of Labor.
2. Uniform Crime Reports, 1963, Federal Bureau of Investigation.
3. Audrey Shuey, The Testing of Negro Intelligence, 2nd Ed., 1966, New
York. Hereafter cited as Shuey.

4. Liberals sometimes argue that other, non-Negro South American countries
have similar records. The facts are that only Bolivia approaches
Haiti in such indices as low life-expectancy, high illiteracy, low per capita
consumption of newsprint, low per capita gross national product and low
political stability, and all the Bolivian situation indicates is that neither the
Negro nor some Andean Indian substocks of the Mongolian race are capable
of maintaining stable, free societies. It does not qualify the Negro.
5. See infra, p. 61. It may also be noted that between 1945 and 1960,
non-White immigrants to England numbered 1,000,000. This influx, mostly
Jamaican Negroes, subsequently was curtailed by law. Although these
1,000,000 people constitute less than three per cent of England's population
today, they are producing 75 per cent of the waifs now being received in
British orphanages. Most are illegitimate and are Negroid in varying
degree.

6. C. J. Connolly, External Morphology of the Primate Brain, 1950,
Springfield, Ill., pp. 146, 203-4. Father Connolly, mindful of the equalitarian
climate of his time and his position as a Catholic, is always guarded
in his statements, which are full of qualifications. Thus he may easily be
quoted out of context to an opposite effect from the general tenor of his
book. He reminds us constantly of the existence of overlap. He raises
the possibility that later discoveries or other samplings may provide different
evidence. None has. For a further discussion of Connolly's problem,
see my speech at Jackson, Miss., Oct. 26, 1961, Congressional Record, Jan.
25, 1962, Vol. 108, No. 10, pp. 830-831.
7. C. W. M. Poynter and J. J. Keegan, "A Study of the American Negro
Brain," 1915, Journal of Comparative Neurology, Vol. 25, pp. 183-212.
8. Ward C. Halstead, Brains and Intelligence, 1947, Chicago, p. 149.

9. Wilder Penfield and Theodore Rasmussen, The Cerebral Cortex of
Man, 1957, New York, p. 226. Neither Halstead nor Penfield has made
any studies of the relative characteristics of White and Negro brains and
they are quoted here solely on the significance of the frontal lobes regardless
of race. Both men have attacked George and me as "racists" while
specifically conceding the accuracy of our quotations on the point in question.
They had no evidence of their own to offer on the race issue, showed
no curiosity about developing any, and confined themselves to criticizing
the evidence of others as "inadequate." I examined this position in detail
in The Mankind Quarterly, 1963, Vol. IV, No. 1, pp. 43-44.
10. W. Freeman and J. W. Watts, Psychosurgery, 1950, Springfield, Ill.,
p. 16.
11. Connolly, op. cit., p. 360. It is of interest to note Brodmann's estimate
that no less than 64 per cent of the total surface of the human cerebral
hemisphere is hidden in the fissures as against 7 per cent in the lowest
monkey. See Penfield and Rasmussen, op. cit., p. 206.

12. F. W. Vint, "The Brain of the Kenya Native," 1934, Journal of
Anatomy, Vol. 68, pp. 216-223.
13. Personal letter to the author. See The Mankind Quarterly, op. cit.,
pp. 44-46.

14. J. S. Bolton, The Brain in Health and Disease, 1914, London.
15. F. W. Vint, op. cit.; also R. Ruggles Gates, Human Genetics, 1946,
New York, Vol. II, p. 1138.
16. George Crile, Intelligence, Power and Personality, 1941, New York.
17. Bennet Bean, 1906, American Journal of Anatomy 5:353-432; H. L.
Gordon, "Amentia in the East African," 1934, Eugenics Review, 25:223-235.
In addition to the difference in brain weight, Gordon notes that the
East African native brain grows less after puberty than the European.
Bright 14-year-old native boys fail to fulfill their promise. Starting at 10
years, the brain capacity starts less than the White and shows a flatter



growth curve; Piersol's Human Anatomy, 9th Ed., 1936, Philadelphia, p.
1196. Piersol says: "Considered in relation to great groups, as to people
or races, brain weight has been found to correspond to the general plane
of intelligence and culture." Quantity is not the sole factor. Differences in
the quality of nerve cells and of their organization may exist; Raymond
Pearl, Science, 1934, 80:431-434; Frederick Tilney, The Brain from Ape to
Man, 1928, New York; T. Wingate Todd, American Journal of Physical
Anthropology, 6:97-194; F. W. Vint, op. cit., pp. 216-223; Olaf Larsell,
Morris's Human Anatomy, 10th Ed., 1942, Philadelphia, p. 901.
18. See generally, G. von Bonin, The Evolution of the Human Brain,
1963, Chicago.
19. "Race and Ecology in Man," 1959, Cold Spring Harbor Symposia
On Quantitative Biology, Vol. 24, p. 156. 20. Supra, p. 33n.

21. Carleton S. Coon, The Story of Man, 2nd Ed., 1962, New York, p.
35. The Story of Man provides for the layman a quicker survey of these
materials than The Origin of Races. See the former book, pp. 28-38, 60-62.
22. Scientific criticism of the Origin of Races (there was the usual irrelevant
deluge of political criticism) fell into five general categories: (1)
Objections that a polytypic species could not evolve into a new polytypic
species while keeping the same subspecies. But even Dobzhansky, Coon's
best known critic in the field of genetics, admitted that on this point Coon
was correct. Dobzhansky, in fact, conceded the point in his Mankind
Evolving (1962, New Haven), published before The Origin of Races.
Ernst Mayr, the Harvard zoologist and author of Animal Species and Evolution,
1963, Cambridge, was in agreement with Coon; (2) Coon was



widely quoted, among others by Dobzhansky, as claiming that mankind
evolved five times from Homo erectus into Homo sapiens through five separate
mutations. Coon, however, made no such claim. He advanced the
possibility of threshold crossing in the five subspecies through peripheral
gene flow; (3) This raised the question, if peripheral gene flow was in part
responsible for the eventual spread of the sapiens mutation to other subspecies,
why did it take so long? To which Coon answered, because man
alone has culture and culture imposes barriers to gene flow absent in other
species; (4) There were a few claims that a parental species cannot breed
with its filial species and produce fertile offspring. That this was untrue
was clearly demonstrated by J. W. Crenshaw, Jr., in Human Biology, 1963,
Vol. 35, No. 3; (5) Why exactly five subspecies? Because man is a large
carniverous animal and needs a large living space for each subspecies.
Five is the number of faunal regions inhabited by man at that time, and
his range was the same as comparable animals. For a cross section of the
debate see Current Anthropology, October 1963; also Science, Feb. 15,
1963, p. 638, and April 12, 1963, p. 208.

23. Marcelle Geber, The Lancet, June 15, 1957, Vol. 272, No. 6981, pp.
1216-19 and Courrier, Vol. 6, No. 1, pp. 17-29, UNESCO, Paris, Jan. 1956.
24. For an effort by a confused layman, indoctrinated by the hierarchy,
see infra, p. 98. In answering a question from this layman I have gone
into the subject more in detail than seemed appropriate here.
25. Nathaniel Weyl, The Negro in American Civilization, 1960, Washington,
D.C., p. 152.
26. A. C. Mundy-Castle, B. L. McKiever and T. Prinsloo, Electroencephalography
and Clinical Neurophysiology, 1953, Vol. V, p. 541. See also
P. Gallais, J. Corriol, and J. Bert, Medecine Tropicale, 1949, Vol. 9, p.
693. Also P. Gallais, G. Mileto, J. Corriol, and J. Bert, Medecine Tropicale,
1951, Vol. II, pp. 128-146.

27. Coon, The Origin of Races, op. cit., pp. 115-116, and works there
cited.
28. Supra, pp. 27-29.

29. H. H. Newman, F. N. Freeman and K. J. Holzinger, Twins: A Study
of Heredity and Environment, 1937, Chicago. Also Sir Cyril Burt and
Margaret Howard, "The Relative Influence of Heredity and Environment
on Assessments of Intelligence," 1957, The British Journal of Statistical Psychology,
Vol. 10, Part 2, pp. 99-104. Also Sir Cyril Burt, "The Inheritance
of Mental Ability," 1958, The American Psychologist, Vol. XIII, No.
1, pp. 1-15. Also D. C. Rife, Heredity and Human Nature, 1959, New
York. Also L. Erlenmeyer-Kimling and L. Jarvick, "Genetics and Intelligence:
A Review," 1963, Science, Vol. 142, No. 3598, pp. 1477-8. For a
short summary, see The Mankind Quarterly, 1964, Vol. 4, No. 4, pp. 197-204.
30. See infra, pp. 92-93.
31. Supra, p. 46n.

32. W. A. Kennedy, V. van de Riet, and J. J. White, "A normative sample
of intelligence and achievement of Negro elementary school children in
the Southeastern United States," 1963, Society for Research in Child Development,
Monograph No. 90, Vol. 28, No. 6. Research supported through
the Cooperative Research Program of the Office of Education, U.S. Department
of Health, Education and Welfare (C.R.P. 954).
33. How Classroom Desegregation Will Work, 1966, Richmond, p. 9.
34. L. M. Terman, deviser of the Stanford-Binet test used in both studies.

35. See, for example, the studies of Dr. R. T. Osborne of White
Children in a Southeastern County, offered as "Intervenors' Exhibit I" in
Stell vs. the Savannah Board of Education, 220 F. Supp. 667 (S. D. Ga.
1963), and there subject to cross-examination. Cited hereafter as Stell
Transcript. The findings and opinion of the judge will be cited as Stell
Opinion. Osborne found a mean White child I.Q. of 103. The Negro mean
was 81.

36. It is, of course, impossible to equate completely White-Negro environment
without turning the Negro into a White man, which begs the
question. One comes as close as possible by taking Negroes from higher
strata of their population than the strata from which the Whites are
taken relative to their population.
37. Among the more interesting items special reference may be made
to F. C. J. McGurk, Comparison of the Performance of Negro and White
High School Seniors on Cultural and Non-Cultural Psychological Test
Questions, 1951, Washington, D. C.

38. A. L. Kroeber, Anthropology, new Ed. 1948, New York, p. 765.
39. See further Race and Reason, pp. 24-25, 42-45. Also and in more
detail, Robert Gayre, "Ethnological Elements of Africa," 1965-6, The
Mankind Quarterly, Vol. V, No. 4; Vol. VI, Nos. 1, 2 and 3.

40. Race and Reason, pp. 42-45.. See also infra, pp. 107-8.
41. Vanished Civilizations of the Ancient World, 1963, Edward Bacon,
ed., pp. 34-54.
42. Herman and Georg Schreiber, Vanished Cities, 1957, pp. 191-223.

43. Robert Gayre, "Zimbabwe," 1965, The Mankind Quarterly, Vol. 5,
No. 4, pp. 212-243. Any student disturbed by an apparent contradiction
between the primitive nature of the ruins and the intrusive hypothesis
should note Dr. Gayre's comment on this point (p. 231): "It has been
argued that the stone building techniques used at Zimbabwe are too poor
to have been the work of peoples advanced in technology such as were the
Arabs. This cannot be accepted by anyone who has lived in isolation
in an overwhelmingly 'native' community anywhere. No matter how you
plan, argue, cajole and teach, the final product is a compromise well
below your own normal standards, but something the 'native' would not
have been able to achieve without all that effort on your part. Missionaries
and planters in remote places—even in countries like India which
are much more advanced than Africa in basic culture—tolerate standards
of building, furnishing and other workmanship well below those of their
own native background simply because this is the best a few Europeans
in an overwhelmingly 'native' milieu can achieve. That was exactly the
situation at Zimbabwe."
44. Arnold J. Toynbee, A Study of History, 4th impression, 1948, New
York, Vol. I, p. 233. As for Toynbee's attempt, as a member of the
British establishment, to evade the consequences of this statement, see
Race and Reason, pp. 52-53.

45. H. A. Tanser, Kent County Negroes, 1939, Chatham, Ontario,
Canada.
46. Nathaniel Weyl, The Negro in American Civilization, 1960, Washington,
D. C., p. 178. See also as to climate, Race and Reason, pp. 45-46.
Also George, pp. 68-70.
47. Infra, Chap. VI.

1. Plessy vs. Ferguson, 163 U.S. 537 (1896). See also Cumming vs.
Board of Education, 175 U.S. 528 (1899); Berea College vs. Kentucky,
211 U.S. 45 (1908); Gong Lum vs. Rice, 275 U.S. 78 (1927).
2. The Negro "movement," as distinguished from what is now so
often called a "revolution," of course began much earlier. The NAACP
had started its work in 1909.
3. Clement E. Vose, "NAACP Strategy in the Covenant Cases," 1955,
Western Reserve Law Review, Vol. VI, p. 111.

4. E. B. Reuter, "Racial Theory," 1945, 50 American Journal of Sociology,
p. 456.
5. For a full discussion of this strategy, with citations, see Vose,
op. cit., 101-145, especially the section "Flooding the Law Reviews,"
pp. 130-133.
6. Shelly vs. Kraemer, McGhee vs. Sipes, 334 U.S. 1; Hurd vs. Hodge,
Uricolo vs. Hodge, 334 U.S. 24.
7. Perkins vs. Trustees of Monroe Ave. Church, 70 N.E. 2nd, 487,
492. (Ohio Appeals 1947).

8. Vose, op. cit., pp. 132-3, gives titles and citations for these and other
articles.
9. Ignorant and inert in the sense of totally unaware of the scientific
facts and the history of their distortion.
10. Brown vs. Board of Education of Topeka, 347 U.S. 482 (1954).

11. A mutual friend to the author personally.
12. Gunnar Myrdal, An American Dilemma, The Negro Problem and
Modern Democracy, 1944, New York.
13. Myrdal, op. cit., pp. 91-96.

14. See for example Myrdal's attempt to discredit brain weight as a
racial factor, op. cit., p. 91n, by references to Mall. Compare Supra, p. 52.
15. Supra, p. 58n.
16. In Briggs vs. Elliott, 98 F. Supp. 529 (E.D.S.C. 1951), one of the
cases consolidated for argument before the Court that resulted in the
Brown decision.
17. Speech by Alfred H. Kelly, infra, p. 73.

18. Kenneth B. and Mamie Clark, "Racial Identification and Preference
in Negro children," 1952, Readings in Social Psychology, Newcomb and
Hartley, eds., New York. For a discussion of Clark's self-contradictions
in his later attempts to explain his performance in Brown, see the Scientific
Statement submitted by Dr. Ernest van den Haag, professor of Social
Philosophy at New York University, to the Senate Judiciary Committee
in connection with Senate Bill No. 1731 (Submitted Feb. 12, 1964.) See
also, generally, Ross and van den Haag, The Fabric of Society, 1957, New
York, pp. 163-66; Ernest van den Haag, "Social Science Testimony in
the Desegregation Cases—a Reply to Professor Kenneth Clark," 1960,
Villanova Law Review, Vol. 6, No. 1, pp. 69-79.

19. Evers vs. Jackscon School District, 232 Fed. Supp. 241 (S.C. Miss.
1964).
20. For a further discussion of the relationship of the scientific evidence
to the Court's decision, see infra, pp. 141-2.
21. That Congress did not intend any such requirement in the District,
and consequently did not intend it in the states, would seem sufficiently
clear from the fact that it did not desegregate the District schools. As to
the legality of the 14th Amendment itself, see Race and Reason, pp. 97-98.

22. Later in this speech the following curious passage occurs: "A good
Freudian psychologist, I know, will be hugging himself with sardonic
joy at this point, observing with self-satisfied glee that academic man
obviously has as great a capacity for manipulating reality by myth in
order to preserve his personal integrity [sic] as has any ordinary day
laborer—perhaps an even greater capacity because of his superior myth-making
abilities. I do not know." One wonders what Kelly's definition
of personal integrity is.
23. 220 Fed. Supp. 667 (S.D. Ga. 1963). Cited hereafter as Stell.

24. The first two days of the trial, May 9 and 10, were held at Brunswick,
the third day, May 13, at Savannah.
25. Greenberg had now become General Counsel for the NAACP
Legal Defense Fund. He did not appear at the trial.

26. For a full discussion of these tests, including graphs, see "Intervenors'
Exhibit 1" to Transcript of Proceedings, Stell.

27. Stell Printed Transcript, p. 176.

28. For further discussion of the exceptional Negro, see infra, pp. 87,
90-93, 121-3, 125-6.

29. Dr. George has submitted to me the following footnote to this
answer: "The data in the question were evidently taken from Sequeira's
report of Vint's preliminary paper (Kenya and East African Medical
Journal). In essential facts these are in accord with data given in Vint's
definitive paper (Vint, 1934, Journal of Anatomy 68:216), with one
exception: in that definitive paper Vint reports the infra-granular as being
thicker in the East African than in the European only in the visuosensory
area of the cortex."

1. See Brown vs. School District No. 20, 226 Fed. Supp. 819 (E.D.S.C.
1963), Evers vs. Jackson School District, 232 Fed. Supp. 241 (S.D. Miss.,
1964); also, Opinion of the Court in Stell, infra, pp. 90-91. Also infra,
pp. 121-2.

2. One magazine, U.S. News and World Report, on May 27, 1963,
carried a brief commentary.

3. On July 6, 1964, the trial court in Evers had felt compelled, against
what it found to be the weight of the evidence, to decide for the NAACP,
because of the prior ruling of the Fifth Circuit in Stell. The final farce
in this circus of absurdity was reached in the opinion of the Fifth
Circuit on Jan. 26, 1966, confirming the decision in Evers in favor of the
Negroes, and offering a new excuse for its action. This argument is
considered infra, pp. 141-2.

1. "Development Rates Of African Children in Uganda," The Lancet
(June 15, 1957), 272, No. 6981, pp. 1216-1219.

2. For example, the uterine Moro reflex was found to disappear in White
children on the average between the 8th and 12th weeks of life, but with
all the 107 Negro children it disappeared before the 5th day of life.

3. C. U. Ariens Kappers, G. Carl Huber, Elizabeth Crosby, The Comparative
Anatomy of the Nervous System of Vertebrates, Including Man,
1936, New York, p. 1632. For the significance of differences in the pyramidal
cells, see A. F. and R. F. Tredgold, Manual of Psychological Medicine,
3rd ed., 1953, London, p. 254.

4. For a contrary view see "Significant Evidence on Inheritance and
Hybridization, Part I", 1966, G. Pantel, Mankind Quarterly, Vol. 6, No. 4,
pp. 219-238.

5. Carleton S. Coon, The Story of Man, 1962, New York, pp. 34-35.

6. Carleton Coon, The Origin of Races, op. cit., pp. 529-530.
7. John E. Pfeiffer, "How the Human Memory Functions," 1963, Think,
29: 6-10; published by I.B.M.
8. L. Guillon et al, Bulletin Academie de Medecine, XCI, 1927, 328- 36.

9. See, for example, Carleton S. Coon and Edward E. Hunt, Jr., Editors,
Anthropology A to Z, 1963, New York, pp. 119-129.

10. See G. R. Langworthy, "A description of the central nervous system
of the porpoises," Journal of Comparative Neurology, 1932, Vol. 54. In
the most recent study of the dolphin brain the authors speak of the drastic
curtailment of the frontal lobe and state that there is almost no cortex
anterior to the genu of the corpus callosum. See P. J. Morgane and P. I.
Yakovlev, "Surface configurations of the forebrain and cortical areas in
the bottlenose dolphin, tursiops truncatus," Anatomical Record, 1966, Vol.
154, p. 390. This research comes from the Division of Neurological Sciences,
Communication Research Institute, Miami, Fla., and the Department
of Neuropathology, Harvard Medical School.
11. Supra, pp. 49-50.

12. Coon, The Origin of Races, op. cit., pp. 115-116 and works there
cited.

13. Leonard Cottrell, article on Meroe, The Concise Encyclopedia of
Archaeology, 1960, London.
14. Dr. Robert Gayre writes me, "Meroe was Cushitic, not Negroid, with
Caucasoid overlays, some of them Semitic."

15. Coon, The Story of Man, op. cit., pp. 60-63.

16. An expert on the legal aspect of this subject writes me: "In Latin
America common law marriages are the normal type of marriage, but because
the Roman Catholic Church's influence is dominant, and so it is
impossible to get the legal system to agree to recognize such marriages, the
offspring are technically illegitimate. But they are not illegitimate in the
eyes of anyone who views the matter from the standpoint of common law
or the civil law, but only of canon law."

17. See supra, p. 54n.

18. A Report from the National Scholarship Service and Fund for Negro
Students, New York Times, Dec. 12, 1963.
19. Science, Oct. 30, 1964, 146: pp. 610-619.

20. It is of course possible to make comparisons between substandard
groups and above-standard groups among White substocks and develop
differences equal to White-Negro differences, but not between substock
averages.

21. Shuey, p. 352.

22. Sir Julian Huxley. "Eugenics in Evolutionary Perspective," 1963,


Perspectives in Biology and Medicine, Vol. VI, No. 2, pp. 165-6.
23. For a recent survey of Negro advances, see U.S. News and World
Report, Dec. 13, 1965, pp. 68-72.

24. Paul Witty, "Research on the American Negro," 1940, 39th Year
Book, National Society for the Study of Education, pp. 261-9.

25. Davis vs. Board of School Commissioners of Mobile County, Ala.,
219 F. Supp. 542 (S.D. Ala. 1963); Armstrong vs. Board of Education of
City of Birmingham, Ala., 220 F. Supp. 217 (N.D. Ala. 1963); Gibson vs.

Glynn County Board of Education, U.S.D.C. Southern District of Georgia,
Brunswick Division (1963). (Unreported.)

26. See supra, p. 113.

27. See, for example, the case of S. B. Fuller, Negro president of the



Fuller Products Company, Chicago. His organization contains 10 subsidiaries
in 38 states, maintains 80 branch offices and employs more than
5,000 people. In addition, Fuller is publisher of The Courier chain of
national weekly newspapers, director of a bank and member of the Board
of the Chicago Association of Commerce and Industry. In a recent speech
he said: "It is contrary to the laws of nature for man to stand still; he
must move forward or the eternal march of progress will force him backward.
This the Negro has failed to understand; he believes that the
lack of civil rights legislation, and the lack of integration have kept him
back. But this is not true; the lack of initiative, courage, integrity, loyalty
and wisdom are responsible for his not making the rate of progress that
he should make." Speech before the National Association of Manufacturers,
New York Herald Tribune, Dec. 7, 1963.

28. For a further discussion of this subject see Race and Reason, p. 104.

29. Edmond Cahn, Jurisprudence, 1955, 30 N.Y.U.L. Rev., p. 150.

30. For a discussion of one of the more reprehensible distortions of history
by Richard Emrich, Episcopal Bishop of Michigan, on June 4, 1961,
see my speech at Jackson, Miss., on Oct. 26, 1961, Congressional Record,
Jan. 25, 1962, Vol. 108, No. 10, pp. 830-831.

31. This article was originally published in The Mankind Quarterly,
1963, Vol. IV, No. 2. It is available in revised booklet form from the
National Putnam Letters Committee, supra, p. 19n.

32. Daniel P. Moynihan, The Negro Family: The Case for National
Action, 1965, Office of Policy Planning and Research, U.S. Department of
Labor.

33. An interesting confirmation of this judgment is afforded by a paper
delivered on December 28, 1965, before the American Historical Association's
80th Annual meeting in San Francisco by Prof. Elliott M. Rudwick
of Southern Illinois University. Prof. Rudwick said in part: "One reason
for the explosion of the last two summers has been the awareness that
whites are to some degree in retreat, that white mobs in the North no
longer organize to attack, and that to a large degree the frustrated Negroes
in slums like Watts can get away with acts of destruction." Conditions
appeared to be changing in the fall of 1966.
34. Speech by Viscount Stansgate, formerly Major Wedgewood Benn,
as head of a British Parliamentary Delegation, reported to me by a member
of the audience.

35. For a confirming sidelight, see John W. Gardner, "The Antileadership
Vaccine," being a part of the Annual Report of the Carnegie Corp.
of N.Y. for 1965. Gardner was Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare
at the time this report appeared, although formerly president of the
corporation. In the essay he notes the inclination of intellectuals to picture
the leader as having "tasted the corrupting experience of power" and
their policy of "immunizing" students "against any tendency toward leadership."

36. For polls as to the actual extent of public deception on race differences
see supra, p. 5n.

37. See supra, p. 9.

38. See also Race and Reason, pp. 43-44, 77.

1. I cannot forbear quoting once again William Harvey's lines: "Far
more and abler operations are required to the fabric and erection of living
creatures than to their dissolution, and plucking of them down. For those
things that easily and nimbly perish, are slow and difficult in their rise
and complement."
















