





RUN YOUR ASS OFF
A Straight-Talking No-nonsense Beginner's Guide to Running












Kevin Hill











Contents



Copyright




1.
Run Your Ass Off


2.
A Bit About Me


3.
First Steps


4.
Motivation


5.
Exclusively Inclusive


6.
Gearing Up


7.
Ready for action


8.
Keep Going


9.
Too Much Too Soon


10.
Tricks, Tips & Hacks


11.
Finding Your Pace


12.
Goals


13.
Running to Lose Weight


14.
Running To Stand Still


15.
Where to Run


16.
Eat - Drink - Sleep


17.
Sugar:The Drug of A Nation


18.
The Ultimate Fat-Burning Workout


19.
Couch to 5k


20.
Ready to Race


21.
Affairs Of The Heart


22.
Pains in the Ass


23.
Stretching


24.
Need For Speed


25.
Cross Training


26.
A Way of Life


27.
Marathon Club




JARGON GUIDE


About the Author















Copyright © 2016 by Kevin Hill

All rights reserved.

No part of this book may be reproduced in any form or by any electronic or mechanical means, including information storage and retrieval systems, without written permission from the author, except for the use of brief quotations in a book review.














1


Run Your Ass Off

Introduction



There are a gazillion books out there about beginner's running, couch to 5k, marathons for dummies etc.
So why should you read this?
Because it has one very simple, no bells-and-whistles promise; to help you Run Your Ass Off.
As a reformed couch potato, I want to help spread the real truth about running: you don't have to be fit or athletic, and you certainly don't need to be size zero.
All you need to do is stand up and take that first step out the door.

The Comfort Zone
I will show you how to change your outlook and gain a new way of thinking about exercise and diet.
Trying something new can be difficult; life is busy.
But some of the best things in life are often the very things you were once apprehensive about. Sometimes you have to step out of your comfort zone to broaden your horizons.
Running is no different.
A child often needs to taste a new food up to ten times before they will accept it; adults can be the same about running.
Many of us can't just do it once and think: 'Great, now I'm a runner'. We need to give our bodies a chance to adapt.
Just because running feels a bit alien or a little challenging in the beginning doesn't mean it's not worth pursuing.

Goals
Just to get it out of the way, this book is NOT about targets; there are way too many of those in life already. Instead it will focus on doing things at a pace that suits you.
Notwithstanding, there are those - myself included - who prefer to have some kind of fitness plan to follow.
When people get bitten by the running bug they strive to improve: setting goals and making plans can be key to achieving this.
So while there will be no enforced targets, there will be some advice on making personal plans and goal-setting for those who require them.
But remember there is only one simple aim to start: put on  suitable clothing and footwear, head out the door and keep putting one foot in front of the other until you get back.
You don't even have to run every step. A walk-run strategy is actually preferable to start with.

Burn it!
We'll also focus on the relationship between exercise and food in a common sense, non-scientific way.
Help you understand how your body deals with food types with tips on how to tap into your own body's ability to become more fat-burning than carb-burning, and ensure your running helps weight-loss.
This will enable those who have always stumbled from fad diet to fad diet to change things in a truly sustainable way.

The Tarzan Mentality
Another focus will be state of mind.
It's hard for most non-runners to understand, but there is nothing better for your mental well-being that just getting out there and stripping things back to primeval basics: run, breathe and be free.
Before I started, I would never have believed that feeling drained and tired after a hard day's work could be alleviated by going back out outside and pounding the pavements, rather than slipping into the well worn ass-grove on my sofa.
On daily commutes I used to see runners from the comfort and warmth of my car and question their sanity.
Now it's the other way around and very soon, you'll feel the same way.

Choices
Life is made up of choices. They range in importance from basic (what I like to call Grade Two) choices like what will you have for breakfast, or what will you wear today? Others are far more complex, Grade One choices: what should you study in college, should you settle down and get married/have kids?
These more complex decisions are the ones we don't make everyday; the real life changing ones -  decisions that will greatly affect the way we live our lives, and likely dictate our future happiness.
Put simply, the day you decide to pull on a pair of trainers, go outside and run is a big Grade One choice that has the potential to change your life in more ways than you ever thought possible.

Stepping Off The Wheel
Modern life can be so busy, it's all too easy to get caught in ruts working hard and eating unhealthily. Before you know it you're ten years older, having added a couple of extra pounds per year along the way.
Our yearly calendar is dictated to us by outside forces: they want you to celebrate Christmas and the holidays by eating, drinking and being merry, then they want you to buy into the New Year-New You detox of low-fat foods and fad diets, or get a special rate on gym membership. Before you know it, the TV is full of 'look good for summer' products.
Tapping into your insecurities about body shape and fitness is a worldwide, billion dollar business and all they want is your cash.
There is a way to step off that hamster wheel though, a way that can improve not just your physical fitness and wellbeing, but also your state of mind.
And all it takes is that single Grade One decision, put on a pair of trainers and Run Your Ass Off.













2


A Bit About Me




Firstly, I don't come from an athletic background.
I enjoyed some team sports in school yes, but never relished laps of the pitch, or sprints in training. (Who the hell does?)
The mental image I had of a 'runner' before I became one was this: a tall, lanky wraith-like speedster who looked sleek and lithe, with about 5 percent body fat.
To my mind, a runner was an exceptional athlete - and a world apart from the kind of guy I was. Back then I was busy enjoying a different side of life, one that involved little to no athletic pursuit.
I also thought such demanding physical activity would take away from life's enjoyment rather than give it, but how wrong I was.
Running changes everything ... for the better.
I'm forty two years old and I've started fifteen marathons (finished 14 -  it's a long story), run four ultra marathons of up to 50 miles each, and countless 5ks, 10ks and half marathons, so I guess the evidence is against me, but my mentality hasn't changed.
I still don't think of myself as an 'athlete'.
I don't run because I'm the sporty 'type' or whatever. I run because I have become a runner and I love it.
In my late thirties, I'd reached a point where I was overweight and at my most unhealthy.
I found myself in Australia for a few months and the good weather and outdoor lifestyle prompted me to get active. I hadn't done much that way since I'd left school fifteen years previous, so my Grade One Decision Day didn't turn into a five mile run or anything like it.
I ran for about a mile and a half and was exhausted, but elated. The memory of those first tentative steps along the road still makes me smile.
I had to learn from my mistakes along the way though: at first my shoes were ill-fitting so I got blisters, my t-shirt was heavy cotton so I chafed.
Additionally, I ran far too quickly, my feet slapping the ground like a clown, and my breathing was shallow and erratic.
I do a lot of things differently now, but those early 'mistakes' were not real mistakes either - learning as I went along has been half the fun. Setting new goals and the sense of achievement after hitting them, has been the source of a lot of joy and accomplishment.
The satisfaction of training for my first race, of finishing that race and doing well, gave a huge sense of well-being only equaled in my mind by having a well deserved post race/run meal without having to calorie count. Ah... the joys of carb-loading before a race and refueling after.
Shortly after starting I decided I'd like to complete a marathon, and so I embarked on another series of mistakes.
Over the following months I started to run three to four times a week, ramping up the miles and as the weeks wore on the distances got longer.
My long run became 12 miles, then 16 then 20. I did too much too soon and got to the start line feeling fitter than ever, but with sore knees and generally not in the best shape to embark on the unforgiving task of running 26.2 miles.
But I was determined and very stubborn. I ran the 2009 Dublin marathon in four hours and twenty-two minutes, sore but very, very happy.
By then I was hooked - I enjoyed the freedom of a run by the sea, or a hard long run on a Saturday, followed by guilt free goodies later that night.
It changed the way I lived, and as I did more races and my times improved, I started to make other changes; became drawn to food that I knew would only benefit my activity.
I gradually switched to snacking on fruit instead of my usual potato chips and chocolate, and I didn't miss them.
Now that I run about 2000 miles a year, my weight has gone from 96kgs to 78kgs.
My energy levels increased and I started to feel very fit, began to do things that I once would have thought crazy.  While on vacation I'd get up early and go for a run instead of laying in bed with a sangria hangover.
I've been able to get out and about in some beautiful places around the world and become intimately acquainted with my environment, even finding a new appreciation for it.  Going for a run around your own neighborhood early in the morning as the sun rises can give a new perspective; in fact it can be life-affirming.
I ran my most recent marathon in Berlin at a time of 3:12 -  over an hour quicker than my first - and the journey between the two has been as enjoyable an experience as I think is possible.
I have quite literally run my ass off and boy does it feel good! I run for the scenery, the endorphin high, and that feeling of a job well done after a sweaty three-mile jog.
It's why I love running and why I want to help you fall in love with it too.
So if you truly want to make some changes that not only help you feel healthier physically but mentally, then read on.
You won't believe how easy it is.













3


First Steps




Starting Out
Running is one of the more simple forms of athletic activity. Don't get sucked in by the industry-led hype.
You don't need expensive gear, although good footwear needs some attention, which we'll discuss later.
For many, taking up a new hobby is difficult enough without layering extra equipment-related complications.
The hardest step is often the first one out the door when you're tired after a long day.
Everybody is different, but chances are when starting out most of us can't just shoot off down the road on a five-mile stretch.
Therefore when I say 'run' I mean putting on suitable clothing and footwear and heading out the door, doing a short jog and then taking a walking break and repeating the cycle.
Start slow and easy, run every second day or a couple of times a week, nothing complicated, just get out there. It is also important not to over think it either.
If you have a complicated plan dictating to you it's easy to lose motivation. If you have a simple plan to  just get some distance under your belt, you can head out and get in a mile or two, rather than suffer the guilt of keeping to a 'plan'.
You'd be surprised how many times you'll go out with a low minimum requirement in terms of distance or time and end up feeling good and get a little more done, leaving you with an extra feel-good factor.
So don't be too ambitious from the outset. Go easy on yourself. And please, please, don't beat yourself up if you skip a couple of days.
The easiest way to convince yourself that you can't be a runner is to convince yourself that you've 'failed' because you missed a day, or because you walked half your planned route.
Just try to enjoy the journey and don't look at running as something that you need to do, rather as part of a new long term outlook.

The Devil Inside
Like I mentioned earlier about kids trying new foods, it's widely accepted that it takes 30 days to form a habit, so keep that in mind when you're trying to get in the groove. Take it slow and steady as your body and mind adjust and accept this new request you are making of it.
When I first started I didn't suffer for lack of motivation- I'd been smoking, drinking and eating the wrong things for far too long. By then, I was ready to give something back to my body for all the abuse I'd inflicted.
But not everybody feels this way.
We all have individual voices inside our heads: the often-conflicting voices of; 'you don't need to do this tonight', 'do it tomorrow', 'people will think you look stupid'.
These inner voices are powerful - we can never really switch them off, but we can ignore them.
Negative thoughts  often lead to a negative outcome. It may sound simplistic, but by making a conscious decision to not listen to that devil on your shoulder, you are already one step ahead.
A strong mental attitude and answering negative thoughts with a positive answer immediately makes a massive difference to willpower.
I've had many cold wet Irish evenings when the noise of wind and rain outside summoned the anti mojo devil: 'it's too wet/windy/cold', 'Just skip it and do a bit extra tomorrow to make up for it'.
The best way of dealing with those demons is accepting them and having a quick response. So when your inner devil says 'leave it till tomorrow, you had a hard day at work' the response could be: 'Maybe I'll just change clothes and then decide'.
The simple act of putting your running gear on without thinking too much beyond that act can be incredibly helpful in beating the demons.
I can honestly say that of the hundreds of runs I've completed since I started, the vast majority have left me feeling far better post-run than pre.
PMA (Positive Mental Attitude) is a powerful tool in defeating those demons. Teaching your brain to focus on positives rather than negatives is a skill that will stand to you, not just when jogging out the front door, but in life.
After a while of taking this attitude, it gets easier to overcome them. Though those pesky demons will rear their heads again during hard training runs and races, which we will discuss in a later section.
Another useful tool in keeping you honest early in your endeavours is goal setting. It's good to have something to work towards; hitting little milestones can help reinforce a healthy PMA.
These goals can be anything; jogging for three minutes without stopping; running your first mile non-stop or perhaps a bigger aim of following a training plan over a number of weeks, such as a couch to 5k or C25K.
The C25K is exactly what the name suggests; a simple plan to turn a complete beginner into somebody who can run five kilometres (or just over three miles).
Whatever your goal, keep it in mind every time you lace up.













4


Motivation




So, what attracts you to the world of races and running shoes? There are hundreds of reasons to start, but luckily perhaps even more reasons not to quit.

Health
The most obvious (and easily the most positive) side effect to running is the health benefits.
It's a high-impact, cardiovascular workout that burns calories like a furnace burns coal.
It quickens metabolism and strengthens muscle that'll keep you feeling young even when your birthday candles say otherwise.

Weight
Most books and articles I read when I first started, tended to focus primarily on fitness and cardiovascular benefits.
From my own experience, weight-loss was the most notable effect of my early running days, so it deserves to be mentioned high on the list of reasons to start running.
We live in a world that has a growing obesity problem from bad diet and sedentary lifestyles. I've been to the gym in January, started countless New Years resolutions there, but to me it's boring, stationary machines lining up rows of  people doing workouts that will end up with a large percentage dropping out by mid February.
Getting outside into the fresh air and ever-changing scenery is a far more enjoyable and sustainable pursuit.

Energy
While running and weight loss being related is no secret, what might surprise you is that running makes you feel more energised.
If you feel sluggish in the mornings, adding a run to your routine may seem counter-intuitive, but it will actually help you feel better throughout the day.
A morning run gets your blood flowing, your metabolism kick-started and increases your natural energy level, according to most runners (myself included).
Doing something physically exerting during the day will also help you sleep more soundly at night, transversely giving you more energy during the day.
See how this cycle works?

Your Heart
I know; surely this one goes under health? Well, running and heart health are a great team so it deserves a special mention.
Running is a cardiovascular workout. That means it exercises your most important muscle - your heart - and its ability to efficiently oxygenate your blood.
Studies have shown that if you keep your heart rate in its target "zone" for a consistent 20 minutes or more on a regular basis, you lower your blood pressure and greatly reduce your risk of heart disease.
It also decreases your resting heart rate, meaning your heart doesn't have to work so hard to keep the rest of the body supplied with blood from day to day.
It's a bold idea, but one that can easily be backed up with an ocean of scientific research; running can help you live a longer and healthier life.

Social
Running is  probably the original sport, it's one of the few activities that anyone, anywhere can do.
Running is part of us by nature; if you see a group of kids playing together, notice how running around is such a huge part of that - it's a boundless, free spirited activity that we gradually lose as we get older.
If we could retain or reclaim just a little bit of that free spiritedness it would be good for our soul, metabolism (who wouldn't like the metabolism of a ten year old?) and even our social life.
There are races all over the world, and it's a tradition impossible to trace the roots of, because it always been in existence. I'm sure cavemen were racing even before they developed a series of grunts to talk about it, albeit more of a form of transport or hunting than recreation.
Most importantly, you don't need special equipment to do it and there are no particular rules. Everyone knows them intuitively. It's in our blood to want to compare how fast we can go, and to push that limit.
Even if you're not a competitive person, running three miles slightly faster than you've managed before and thus showing improvement, can be a great source of satisfaction, so if you don't enjoy competing against others, bettering yourself can be just as enjoyable and rewarding. There's a certain joy in pushing yourself, being pushed and encouraged by others, and in doing the same for others as you run alongside them.
In all my time in the racing community, I've never met an egotistical prima donna who was more interested in beating me than just doing his or her best while helping me do mine also.
If you are a competitive person, you'll find your niche in no time. There is always more scope to challenge yourself. There's always a chance to improve your personal best time or beat somebody who you once hadn't a chance of keeping up with.
The first time you enter into a race, you'll feel like you're part of something bigger than yourself, because you are.
It's a global social club of people from all backgrounds and body types coming together to push themselves and each other to be better physically and thus enjoy life more.
If you're a social creature and love meeting new people running is a great conduit. There are also many people who have taken up the activity for different reasons and ended up meeting the man or woman of their dreams.
When it comes to such matters of the heart (and I don't mean in the medical sense) running clubs and races easily trump bars and loud nightclubs.

Exploration
I've yet to find a better way to explore a city - the one I live in or that I'm traveling through, than by running there. There's a freedom that you simply can't achieve in a car. After those runs, I've always felt considerably more acquainted with the new place I was visiting, and can then lead my travelling companions confidently through the streets, keeping in mind the unique landmarks I discovered during my run.
There's a big world out there waiting to be discovered and no better way to see it than on foot.
To really get exploring, investigate races in places you want to travel.
There are open races all over the world, destination marathons as well as literally thousand of shorter distance races.
Having personally fallen in love with New York many years ago, running the NYC marathon is now one of my most treasured memories.
There's an endless list of races for the adventurous too - what about the Great Wall Marathon if you want to go to China or, if you really want to an extreme experience, the Antarctica Marathon?
There is no end to the world of exploring. Destination running and racing leaves you with a physical connection to a place long after the journey's over and the suitcase unpacked.

The Challenge
I have never felt like more of an achiever than the moment I started running.
From staggering those first three full miles non-stop to then ten, twenty and so on all the way to crossing the finish line of my very first marathon.
And that feeling has kept me motivated to keep challenging myself ever since. Running is a challenge, no doubt about it, and there's no end to ways you can challenge yourself, push yourself, and strive for higher achievements.
And when you accomplish your individual running goal, if you're anything like me, it will be life-affirming in a way that nothing else is.
"I actually finished a marathon?! How did I do that? I'm not an athlete."
And yet, there I was, my first medal around my neck, proclaiming to the world that I was a runner, and that I'd met the challenge.
Running for the love of the challenge is a great reason to pursue the sport. You can push yourself to win races, beat personal times, and accomplish goals you previously thought impossible.
Of course, it's both the little challenges throughout the run and the big challenges you anticipate for the months preceding, that ensure running is an activity that never gets boring.
You're always achieving new heights.

The Runner's High
You might of heard of it -- the ubiquitous "runner's high." But what is it?
Scientifically speaking, it's a release of endorphins (naturally produced acids in your body) that act like a mild opiate and make you feel good.
But those feel-good chemicals won't be let loose on your brain until you're working really hard.
When you get to that point in your workout where it's hard to breathe and you've been running for a long time, your body goes into overdrive and starts producing endorphins.
Theoretically, this happens as a result of the evolutionary process. When you're running away from a predator, or you're chasing after the food you need to survive, the runner who starts feeling the pain and doesn't feel like it's worth it, will give up first.
But the one whose body releases the counteracting feel-good chemical, is more motivated to push through the pain and finish the escape or hunt.
In my experience, the "high" that I get from running isn't just a chemical process that has been passed down from my ancestors to make me, evolutionarily, a better hunter; it's a knowledge that I'm doing something great with and good for my body.
When I feel tired and I keep going, when I'm sweating buckets and it stings my eyes, when I look down and see my abs ripple where fat once lay, each time I hit the pavement, that's a high.
I'm happy. I know the workout I'm getting is adding something to my life in a positive way. I feel capable and energised.
So I put on headphones and blast out my favourite music, keeping my feet in rhythm with the beat.
I feel like I've got a soundtrack to my life that I'm running through, like I'm in charge of my destiny.
I choose the soundtrack. I choose the pace. I am in control.
That's the high.













5


Exclusively Inclusive




Running is for everyone, regardless of body type and experience level.
It is such a customisable sport that there is no reason you shouldn't make it your own. But depending on who you are, you're likely going to have your own set of difficulties easing yourself into the activity.
Maybe you'll see a little of yourself in all three of these categories, or at least have something in common with at least one.

The Complete Noob
Nothing athletic has ever come easy to you or interested you. You were always a reluctant participant at sports in school.
You never cared for such activities because you genuinely hated them, or you were perhaps more drawn to other, non-sporting pursuits. But now you want to try running because it seems doable, and you really want to get in  shape.
You're also older and wiser and have become aware of the need to invest in your health and well being.
For some in this category self image can be an immediate issue: you've never considered yourself sporty, so it's hard for you to believe that you could be.
It's time to push those doubts aside.
- Start slowly, maybe even try a running partner. Running and/or walking to start out with another beginner who doesn't see themselves as athletic either, is a great way to stick with it.
- Don't fall into the trap of comparing yourself to others, though. This is about you, nobody else.
- Don't give up at the first hint of pain. Within a few weeks, your self-image will change, you just need to stay with it. I've often met people out running on my regular route that seemed self-conscious. I've always made a point of acknowledging other runners while out - most seem to, probably because we know what it takes to get up off your ass and get out there.
Many reciprocate but new runners in particular are often the ones that won't meet your eye.
But I've been there too; we all have, starting out, feeling like a bit of an imposter.
The great thing is how people change over time. After a few weeks I'd often meet that same guy who'll now wave back happily; the green shoots of confidence and newfound self belief are so evident it's like somebody has lit a fire under him.
A convert has been born.

The 'Not Quite' Novice
You see yourself as just a regular, everyday normal guy or gal. You feel quite fit and healthy, but don't see yourself as a 'Sport Billy' per se.
Most importantly, you aren't intimidated by running. Your greatest hurdle will be boredom. A new activity can take up a lot of time and it will be easy to come up with rationalisations of being too busy.
Your greatest help will be finding things you love to do while running. Listen to music, explore new routes, talk with your running buddies. It would do you well to be competitive at times -- both with yourself and your peers. Run with people who will challenge you.
Your greatest pitfall will probably be lack of consistency. One week you will feel ultra-motivated and run every day. The next week you might feel sore and take a few days off. The third week it will be hard to get back in the swing of things.
Set goals for yourself and make a reasonable plan.

The Athlete - But Not A Runner
You've always loved athletic activity. Gone to the gym, played football or other team sports. Now you or someone you know is trying to get you into distance running.
Your greatest hurdle will be expecting too much too fast. Cardiovascular exercise is a whole different ball game.
While you may be very fit, you might be surprised that all of that natural and hard-earned talent doesn't necessarily translate into being great on day one.
You might push yourself too hard and too fast and end up with an injury that could set you back for months.
At the very least, if you go out too gung-ho, you'll end up with intense muscle soreness that is bound to deter anyone -- including the most avid athlete -- from continuing a running plan. You're the beginner who is most prone to injury because you go out too fast and don't let your body adjust to the endurance aspect.
Your greatest asset is your can-do attitude. You know you're a natural athlete, so don't let that idea slip away from you. You aren't easily discouraged, and you love competing with yourself and with others.
Be sure to set goals for yourself and sign up for some races, but give yourself plenty of time to train.
You're also the kind of runner who will push through pain even when you shouldn't. Listen to your body and take days off when you need to.
Remember that recovery days are an essential part of your training. Your muscles will not have time to build themselves up if you don't take days off. If you must, use those days to cross-train and do another sport that you love -- but be sure to take it easy.
It is a recovery day, after all.













6


Gearing Up












When you start running you really don't need all the latest fads and fashions that an ever burgeoning retail industry wants to throw at you.
Though once you've got started, the 'gear' aspect of running can be a lot of fun.
By gear, I mostly mean shoes. Good trainers are the foundation of good running.
The sports industry is constantly coming up with new must haves for runners, weather it be space age jackets or water/nutrition belts.  All of that is unimportant compared to getting the right shoes.

These Shoes are Made for Running
Buying the correct shoes is not the place to cut costs, so don't go cheap and wait to invest in proper shoes after you see if you really like running first, because you won't.  Like it, I mean.
Wearing the wrong shoes is a sure-fire way to make running an un-enjoyable exercise, all because it wasn't worth investing in the right pair.
I'll admit I started out with whatever I had at home for basic leisure endeavours. But a lot of ' everyday 'trainers' are all surprisingly heavier than a proper pair of running shoes.
And though you might not notice the difference when you first put them on, you definitely will after running in them for five minutes.
A good pair of running shoes are light, will support your arches correctly, help you run in good form and pretty much takes care of your feet so you don't have to think about them as you start out on your journey.

How's your Gait?
Go to a dedicated running store, and please don't be intimidated by them just because you're a beginner; they are there to help people just like you.
These stores often offer 'gait analysis' to determine what shoe type you require. They will ask you to run on a treadmill or short track for a few strides while recording it to see if you under or over pronate (twist your ankle slightly outward or inwards as it strikes the ground) or whether you're a neutral runner.
They can tell if you have a high arch or are slightly flat footed. All of these things will dictate whether you need a Cushion, Neutral, Stable, or Motion Control shoe.
Without bombarding you with the many different foot types here I'll just reiterate; go to a proper running store and get properly fitted. It's like building a house, you start from the ground up and your footwear will be the foundation.
Following on from this I would include running socks as part of that footwear. Undoubtedly these will be offered to you when buying the shoes. They are non cotton and sometimes double layered or thickened in strategic places to prevent blistering.
They are not a gimmick and really do help so don't pass up on them.

Support
If having the correct shoes is the 'foundation' which applies to both sexes, ladies (mostly) need support walls. Getting the correct sports bra is essential, though obviously something I know very little about other than what I have heard from my wife.
The recurring message for beginners is: 'get properly fitted' and not just before you start running but periodically as your body shape starts to change with the miles.

Body Glide is Your Friend
Invest in some body glide, available in all good sports stores. There's no need to blush when asking, this is much more innocent than it sounds.
It's simply a gel stick that can be applied to areas prone to chafing, such as bra straps, inner thighs etc.
It reduces friction and therefore the danger of chafing that often occurs when clothing, sweat and friction are combined.
Body glide is a friend to both sexes.

Nipple-Nasties
Guys be warned; you never had to pay much attention to the fact that you too have breasts until you become a runner.
Or to be more specific: nipples.
Standing at the side of any distance race watching the competitors will undoubtedly reveal plenty of guys with blood streaming from the nipple region, especially on damp or hot days.
Band-aids or body glide are essential preventative maintenance to avoid this stinging and most unpleasant-looking wardrobe malfunction.
As with everything else it's personal preference and trial and error. Personally I tend to avoid cotton as I find it retains sweat and can cause chafing, so instead I always opt for 'technical' t-shirts and shorts, which are made from 'wicking' material to keep you dry and cool.

No such thing as bad weather
When it comes to the elements there's no such thing as bad weather, just the wrong clothing.
Again this is trial and error but I generally find layers best in the winter so you can peel them off as you get warm. 'Base layers' are excellent for keeping warm without having lots of bulky clothing weighing you down.
On cold days, you should feel chilly for the first few minutes; if you're wrapped up warm from the start you'll be a hot, sweaty mess after a few minutes which will take away the enjoyment of a running on a crisp winter's day.
Peripheral parts such as fingers and ears are most likely to be the cause of discomfort on cold days though, so headband/hat and gloves are always helpful.
But again, don't rush out and buy the 'new season', 'space age super material' in the sports shop, everyday ones are fine.
A light waterproof windbreaker can be a handy piece of kit if it's really teeming down, but in general waterproof clothing, no matter how 'breathable' is not breathable enough for running.
Personally, I'd much rather get wet in the rain than suffer through the sauna that body heat and sweat under my waterproof jacket and pants cause.
Just be sure that whatever you wear out in the rain isn't going to absorb pounds of water (like a sweatshirt and sweatpants) thus weighing you down, and making you cold in a downpour.
Lightweight nylons and base layers are best for rain, but don't be afraid to get a little wet. If you've ever sat in your car or on a bus when it's lashing rain and seen a runner flying past your first thought is probably 'lunatic'.
Well, I suggest you try it - as long as you're dressed correctly it's actually really enjoyable and life affirming to skip through the puddles and raindrops as people stare out at you through steamed-up carbon dioxide-expelling vehicles.

Gadgets and Gizmos
All the bells and whistles you might find at your local sports store are not necessary for you to be an excellent, or even barely competent runner.
But some of them can definitely make sweating out the miles much more fun, especially if you're a gadget freak.

GPS tracker
I use a Garmin GPS to log all my runs. But there are cheaper alternatives starting out.
Smartphones are the obvious choice. There are countless running apps available. Some are free whilst others, or sometimes the more advanced versions of the free ones, have a small charge.
It's always enjoyable to check up on the run data afterwards. The apps upload all the collected GPS data to a free online account where you can view and share maps of your activity.
After each run you can even post your success on Facebook or Twitter for the entire world to see. This saved info is great for tracking routes, mileage, pace and goals. What's not great is having to carry a sometimes cumbersome and expensive smart phone, especially in inclement weather, but you can buy an arm-strap which makes carriage easier and offers some protection.
As you progress you may decide to invest in a GPS watch which is obviously much easier to carry. These often double as heart rate monitors, which can be useful.
If you're running for the health benefits, a heart-rate monitor is a good investment. Running is one of the best sports to increase your cardiovascular health.
This is because it is one of the easiest ways to reach your "zone" heart rate and maintain it there for at least 20 minutes (the recommended daily time to steadily increase heart health).
Mostly it is a good way of gauging improvement over time - as you become fitter you'll be able to see your heart having to work less to maintain the same effort/speed.
As training becomes more serious the HRM can be very useful for pushing the limits to get fitter during speed sessions and help prevent doing too much during recoveries.

Running sunglasses
Depending on the time of day you plan on running, a good pair of sports sunglasses could be a really useful asset to your collection of running equipment.
Running into the sunset may sound romantic an' all, but unless you're wearing a good pair of shades, it really only looks good in pictures.

Gels/Fuel Belt
These are unnecessary unless you're doing specific endurance training on longer runs over 10 miles.
Teaching the body to use up the carbs available and switch to burning fat is beneficial in term of training and weight loss - popping a gel every couple of miles breaks this transition.
For marathon training however, gels can be necessary to get you over the line, so a fuel belt is handy to practice race day nutrition strategy.
You can buy carb rich gels in a variety of flavours at the local running or sports store. These little packs of yumminess (opinions vary on their actual yumminess) are easy to tear open and drain mid-run.
If you buy the belt to carry them, you'll have a little energy feast ready to ingest at your convenience.

Camelback/Hydration
This is a backpack that contains up to a couple of liters of water or sports drink, and can be handy for long hot runs. Personally I'm not a huge fan of having any extra sweat-inducing loads on my person. So I often carry a bottle with me or some cash to buy some.
Alternatively you could stash some in your front yard or car and run loops, doubling back to get a drink when needed.
A camelback is a convenient source of constant hydration where the other options are unavailable, and one I sometimes use during the summer if trail running in the mountains.

Lights and Reflective Gear
Elasticated arm bands with flashing lights and reflective bibs are potential lifesavers if you are planning or are forced to run on dimly lit roads, especially in winter.
Be safe, be seen.

Just Do It
There's a good reason Nike's slogan is so famous.
That's all it takes to be a runner.
You have the shoes, you have the gear, you know where you're going and you know why.
So now  - go!













7


Ready for action

Your First Run



Ready...Steady...
So, you're standing in your hallway or kitchen and about to head out for the first time - suited, booted, possibly feeling like a fish out of water in your brand new running gear.
There will always be a certain amount of self doubt and fear. Perhaps the worry of not being able to jog more than a few yards without being doubled-over with cramp and out of breath, or a little self consciousness about your body shape.
Such concerns can invite the dreaded inner voice to talk you out of doing it in the first place.
This is what makes that first step through the door for your first run so important.
You must ignore the doubts and push through the fear.
Once you've done that, you're away.

Go!
So you've succeeding in leaving your house. What now?
Now take a deep breath and simply start putting one foot in front of the other.
Remember in these early stages, walking is not only allowed, it's encouraged.  If you break into a run at your doorstep there is every chance you will be out of breath and discouraged by the time you reach the end of the street.
Walk along for a few minutes to warm up. Pick a physical landmark somewhere ahead, maybe a lamp post, or a nearby bus stop etc, and make that a target to lightly jog to. I say 'jog' because I really want to emphasise the importance of taking it easy.
Think of it as a bottle of wine to a non drinker; popping the cork and immediately starting to chug it all down quickly will not end well. You need to sip and savour.
Much like drinking alcohol too quickly, running too quickly has the potential to have you doubled-over and feeling sick.  (Take it from this Irish guy, we know)
It can also lead to a similar hangover that will stop or at least discourage you from going out again.

Keep Going
If there is a short circuit of one to three miles close to your house, aim for that to start, engaging a walk-run strategy.  Or even just walk the whole lot altogether.
This first exercise is all about familiarisation.
Finding a route that you're comfortable with, and generally demystifying getting out there is the name of the game at this point.
If there are no obvious circuits nearby, run/walk for ten to fifteen minutes before heading home.
Your first run is all about a positive experience.
It's pointless overdoing it at this point; less is definitely more.

The Talk Test
Gauge your efforts by trying to talk while running. If you can comfortably utter a sentence while on the move, you are right on the money in terms of effort.
If getting the words out is at all difficult, you need to slow down, and if you can sing a couple of lines from a song, you can almost certainly afford to speed things up a little.

The Discomfort Zone
So many people take up running at two predictably distinct times of year: New Year after the excess of the holidays, and summertime when the warmth and brightness make you crave being healthier.
Maybe you're just not comfortable having your neighbours watching as you huff and puff your way up and down the street; believe me this is very common.
If you are very self conscious, don't let this be a burden or reason to stop you. Find ways around it. Drive to a nearby park or other recreational area and run there.
Winter can be dark and necessitates wrapping up, so use it to your advantage.
Summer offers more daylight to enable travel to places you might feel less self conscious. The most important thing is not to let insecurity stop you.
If you can continue to get out there and build the habit, it won't be long before those insecurities melt away.

The Devil Inside
Now you're out there, comfortable in your location and starting to (very gradually) move those joints and work those limbs. You're walking a little, running a little and generally keeping things moving, so what else should you be mindful of?
Well, I know I've already encouraged you to disengage the brain, but the truth is you can't truly switch it off. Even before you got to the point of being out there in your running gear, prepared to put the effort in, your brain has been plotting against you. Planting seeds of doubt like self consciousness or negative body image.
That pesky brain has myriad tricks to put you off.
Like it's too cold/hot/wet/windy/dark. Even when you've doing this for some time, your brain will try to use any or all of these to dissuade you - don't let it!
As already mentioned, there is no such thing as bad weather - just inappropriate clothes.
Too cold?  Layer up and run shorter circuits which repeatedly pass your house or car so you can de-layer as you warm up. And look forward to the bliss of that long, hot shower afterwards.
Too hot? Wear light clothing and hydrate well. Look forward to the bliss of a long, cool shower afterwards.
Too wet/windy? Wear a waterproof windbreaker and enjoy the exhilarating life-affirming sensation of running in the rain. Jump in a puddle - it's great fun and millions of kids around the world can't be wrong.
Too dark? Run in a well-lit area and purchase some running lights to see and be seen.
Most importantly, be positive and have an answer for your brain's negativity.
Know that when it starts complaining that you are too tired or have something else to do, you need to toughen up and prioritise.
When it starts to tell you that you're too slow, it will only hurt and that you've always hated sports, accept that this is just your brain trying to hijack you.
At times like these you need to think about the bigger picture; break through those doubts and push through one little victory at a time. Have a positive mantra to quell and counter the attempted hijacks: I've got this, I will do this.
They seem fairly tame weapons against the negativity arsenal but used effectively they can help win the war to the point of having your brain actually start to work in your favour: 'If I don't get out for my run today I'll lose my mind'.
So much of running can be psychological - and now that you've taken the hardest first step out the door, just concentrate on taking the next, and pretty soon you'll be rewiring your brain to work for you.



Summary

Treat your feet: Invest in good trainers and running socks before getting started. Ladies, get properly fitted for a sports bra. Not being comfortable from the outset can have a negative effect on staying the course.

Taking up running is not all about running: Start slow, build up gradually. Walk. Run a little. Walk some more. Discover some go-to running routes.

Just walk: If you are out of shape and haven't exercised for some time, concentrate on walking only. Plot out a route as discussed and try to walk it a little more briskly each time.

Slow Down: If you are eager to take off be warned, it takes time to build fitness. Too much too soon will only leave you sore and demotivated.

Take the Talk Test: If you feel yourself gasping for air and have to stop after a shot period of time,  you are going too fast.















8


Keep Going




What Next?
So you've got out there, walked and run a little, and identified a potential route that could become a staple of your new running habit.
With luck, it's been relatively positive experience and you get back to your house unscathed and not doubled-over with cramp from going too fast or doing too much.
Most likely, your blood is pumping a bit and more importantly, you are not dreading - but are in fact quite looking forward to - getting out there again for more.
For now, enjoy a nice shower and be proud of any slight pain or fatigue you feel after finishing today or the next day - that's a true sign of progress.
If you do feel very sore the following day, go for a gentle stroll to loosen up rather that run again. When you feel ready, go out and complete your chosen route again, remembering to take it easy.
Record how long it takes each subsequent time, so you can measure your progress and adjust it if there are parts you don't like i.e. too hilly or if there are other scenic parts you would like to include or indeed, a pesky dog you want to avoid.
Get a sense of what clothing suits best, find out how long a workout takes, including getting changed before and afterwards, to make planning and fitting that route into your daily schedule easier.

Habit
Then, over the next couple of weeks, get out and do the route as often as you can.
Mix things up a little; walk/run it one day, walk only the next. Just build a habit.
If you're looking to lose weight, ignore the scales at first, and concentrate on just building that running habit.
Give more thought to cleaning up your diet. Be wary of increased hunger from the extra activity though. There is no need to go on a special 'runner's' diet or anything like that -  just try to opt for healthier options when those post-run munchies inevitably appear.

Slow and Steady
After a few weeks, you are sure to notice a difference in your body shape.
Clothes will be the first thing to illustrate the results of your efforts. Your belt buckle will need tightening, your jeans will start to feel a little looser on the thighs.
Once you've established that all important routine of getting out there often - a new you gradually starts to appear.
Before long, and almost before you know it, you will have hit the magic goal of running that ass right off.

Going Forward
Run like you're a runner, even if you don't feel like one yet.
There is of course a correct way to run. Keep your back straight and head up. Relax your shoulders. Swing your arms at your side at a comfortable height.
Don't exert much energy in keeping your arms bent, this should be a comfortable position. Don't ball your hands into tight fists, just hold them in a curled, but relatively relaxed position.
Your face should also be relaxed and breathe in and out slowly, keeping in rhythm with your footsteps. When your arms pump with each step, drive them forward (they should only turn in towards your body slightly).
Too much across-the body action with your arms is inefficient and actually will waste energy in the long run, so it's good to practice pumping straight.
The same goes for your legs. Concentrate on putting your legs straight ahead of you, not letting them cross the centre of your body as you run.
The idea is to keep your concentration on going forward. Your effort is focused in having your arms and legs moving straight forward, while the other muscles in your body that are not essential for that task are comfortable and relaxed (relaxed hands, face and shoulders).
It's all about being comfortable while asking your body to perform in a way that may feel alien to it.
For now don't sweat all this technical stuff too much, once you are moving forward you are doing it right. I'm a firm believer that the more you run the more your body remembers how to run- we were born to do it.
Don't be afraid to take walk breaks, but instead of slowing to a stroll, power walk while getting your breath back.
I have seen a lot of advice given to novice runners about running with good form. To me trying to run a certain way when you're starting out is unnecessary - just run, your body will find it's own grove, it's what are bodies have evolved to do after all.
There will be plenty of time in the future to fine tune your form.

Just Breathe
A note on breathing: there's a lot of discussion about where/how you should allow air to enter your lungs.
"Breathe in through the nose, out the mouth."
"Breathe in and out of the mouth, not the nose."
"Breathe in and out of both the nose and mouth."
It's not rocket science: just breathe.
If you're wasting mental energy on what way you're breathing and how, you are making the simple form of running over complicated.
Use that mental energy to concentrate on relaxing, getting comfortable with moving forward and running slow and steady.













9


Too Much Too Soon




So you're feeling motivated, you have the new running shoes and your new plan. You get out on your newfound route and feel so good that you decide to do it twice.
In fact, maybe you'll do it three times.
You are about to set yourself up for failure.
Becoming a runner is a long-term investment and shouldn't be accomplished in one day. Many an excited newbie gets out on their first day and does too much too soon.
You must learn to pace yourself.
If you haven't been running at all, gradually increasing the amount you run is of key importance.
Whereas increasing your mileage too quickly will lead to all kinds of aches and pains and possibly injuries.

Frequency
While there are times you should push yourself to run through the pain and soreness you feel in response to the last workout, there are also days you need to listen to your body and take a day off.
Don't feel bad. Just re-adjust the plan and move on. The worst thing you can do to yourself is quit because you've convinced yourself that you've failed because you took a day or two off.
Give yourself and your body time to adjust to this new lifestyle.
You need to incorporate many rest days at the beginning anyway. You are putting your body through a lot of stress by starting to run, and rest days are important to allow your body to recover.
Take your rest day seriously, concentrate on quality nutrition and sleep.
It does a body good.

Speed
At the risk of repeating myself; pace yourself. You probably won't know what that means until you get a feel for how long you can last running a certain distance.
But just keep in mind that if you're planning to run a longer distance than you've ever run before, then start out slower than you think you need to.
You have to reserve energy so you can use it at the end. Think about starting out slow and gradually increasing your speed as you go through your planned route.
If you plan on ending faster than you start, you will probably pace yourself pretty well.
It may feel like you're running faster when actually, as you grow more tired but push yourself harder, you maintain a constant speed.
Best case scenario, you have the energy to increase your speed as you run home or finish your run.
If you're still not sure what it means to pace yourself, sing.
When running a good, steady pace, you should be able to talk comfortably, but it should be difficult to sing.
If you're running alone you will get strange looks but at least you're running at the correct pace.
So what if people think you're running away from an asylum?

Counting the Miles
When you're starting out, you're probably reading a lot of material that talks about miles or kilometres depending on what part of the world you are from.
I talk about my marathon races in terms of "mile 20," "mile 5" and so on. But when you are a beginner, just finishing mile 1 is a big task.
That's ok, it's the same for everybody.
But if you measure your success in miles, you may quickly be discouraged. Consider measuring your success in minutes.
Even if your goal is a distance goal, brag to yourself about how long you ran "I did 20 minutes today."
The amount of time you invest in running is also something to be proud of  - use it to spur you on.

Running Every Day
I know it's tempting to set an "everyday" goal. It's an easy New Year's resolution to make, and it's easy to brag about, but don't do it.
Your body needs rest and recovery, a day off.
When you first start, take at least one day off, maybe two, or run every second day. This allows your muscles to rebuild so that you can perform even better the next day.
Think of your day off as an essential part of your running program. If you are itching to get out every day, incorporate some cross training, or a core and stretching session into your routine.
It will pay dividends in the end.

An Over-zealous Plan
Be real with yourself. You're not going to run a marathon after a month of training, and you probably won't win the first race you run.
You aren't going to lose 10 kgs in a week either, and your blood pressure problems won't go away overnight.
So know your body and set reasonable goals.
Don't be afraid to re-adjust those goals once you begin to realise your own limitations.
Maybe your couch to 5k goal is more time intensive than you realised and you need more hours with your family. Just make a new plan.
Don't let your over-arching goals get in the way of your day to day running.

Take it Easy
With running, there are no rules. If however there were, the number one rule would be, slow down!
If you ever see a group of kids in a playground or a sporting event, they have only one setting; 100% - they run all-out.
Many people who take up running later in life are similar, they take off too fast and end up thinking it's too difficult, or they are just not able, which can lead to over exertion at the end.
Finishing faster and stronger is far more likely to have you looking forward to your next run rather than dreading it. So again, take it easy to start with, and keep in mind that you're on your way home in the second half - give it a little extra now and enjoy a hot/cold shower, depending on the conditions, with a positive feeling of achievement rather than feeling wrecked and dreading the next run.
If you've got a tight schedule and only want to run for a certain amount of time each day, this method might work better for you. Decide how much time you want to spend running each time you go out, complete half of that time away from your house, and then run back.
Make sure to pace yourself so that you can keep the same speed running home. In fact, race yourself home by trying to beat your time for the first half of your outing.
Then you'll constantly be trying to increase your speed, even as you're tired. You may be surprised that it's easier to run faster going home. Each day you go out, try to go further in the same amount of time.
But don't get discouraged if some days your exhausted body can't match its performance from the previous day. You'll have good days and bad days in running just like anything else.
Never be too hard on yourself.













10















Tricks, Tips & Hacks




Don't get Locked Out!
Tie your door/car key to your laces. If you're lucky, your shoe or shorts might have a key pocket, though having too much in your pockets could get annoying with the incessant banging against your leg.
You could, of course, carry essentials with you in your hand, but it's so much more enjoyable to run hands-free.

Caught on the hop
Try to always use the bathroom before you run. Our bodies have a way of computing what is being asked of them and performing accordingly.
After a while, the very act of getting dressed for a run and taking a few strides down the road will often create a natural laxative effect as the body prepares for the demands you are about to make of it.
If you can, plan longer routes near public toilets, petrol stations etc so that you can make use of the facilities in case of an emergency.

Protect Your Skin
No matter how sunny it is at certain times of year, don't forget sunscreen. UV rays can penetrate even on cool or partly cloudy days.
Nothing like burned skin to make every move a painful, unpleasant one, not to mention the dangers of melanoma. Being from Ireland which is not renowned for it's brilliant sunshine I know how strong the sun can be in summer even on cloudy days.
On cold, windy days, vaseline on exposed skin (especially the tender parts of your face: your eyelids, lips, and end of your nose) will keep you from getting wind-whipped and raw.

Keep your Toenails Short
As you run, your toes bang against the front of your shoes. If you have long toenails, they will break and may bleed. Keep them short.
Having said that, blackened toe nails are almost a rite of passage for any runner. If you get them: congratulations, you're obviously putting the miles in.

Always Carry ID
Especially if you're running alone, you want to make sure that you can be identified if something happens.
You never know. Better safe than sorry.
For your ID, try to find shorts or other running clothing that has a small zipper pocket so you can have it on your person without fear of it falling out of an open pocket.
Most smartphones have emergency contact lists which are not password protected. I had a Velcro wrist band made up with all my details and emergency contacts. Check out RoadID.com for details.

Wrap up Loose Items with Foil
If you want to carry keys, coins etc in your pocket, wrap them up with foil. It will stop you sounding like Santa's sleigh as you run down the road.

Face the Traffic
When running on the road, head towards the cars coming towards you. That way, if they don't see you, you'll be sure to see them and get out of the way.
This is especially important around sunrise or sunset.
At those times of day, it's particularly difficult for drivers to see you. Wear bright, reflective clothes and lights during hours of darkness as well as dawn and dusk.













11















Finding Your Pace










For beginners, it's difficult to know how fast to go on any given day. If you start out too quickly, you'll tire quickly and not be able to go as far as you want to.
If you start out too slow, you'll take longer than you want to.
Finding a good speed is key.
Usually runners measure their speed in a per-mile or per- km pace. When you first start, however, you don't know what your "per mile" pace should be.
So in order to decide what speed to run at, use a different method.
First and foremost, run comfortably. Use the "talk test."
If you can hold a conversation while running, you're not pushing yourself hard enough. If you can't talk at all, you're running too fast. If you can finish a sentence comfortably while running, you're running at a good pace.
Once you become a little more experienced, you begin to measure your speed in a per-mile or per-km pace.
You'll be able to predict how fast you can run a certain distance based on that pace.
When I first started, I could barely run a full mile without stopping to walk, so having a "per mile" pace was the furthest thing from my mind. But if I had known that I was going to make running a part of my everyday life, I would have been curious.
Once you feel comfortable running a mile, start timing yourself. Don't feel the pressure to go at a certain speed, just time yourself so that you know your own ability.
Time yourself at a pace that's comfortable for you to run and talk.
Then, run a mile where you try to finish as fast as possible. Your fast mile is a good starting point for you to understand your capability.
In any race that's longer than a mile, you should run a slower pace than you ran your fastest mile.
In fact, add one or two minutes to that mile, and that should be your target pace for a longer run. Try it out.
If you run three miles and feel like you can sprint to the finish, you're doing well.
Measuring a fast mile is not essential for knowing your pace, but it will serve you well if you want to improve your time. You will have a better understanding of what your body is capable of and you will know your limits.
You'll also be able to track your improvement as you watch your "fast" mile time slowly creep down.
With this knowledge, you can go into a race confidently. Have a watch strapped to your wrist and watch your time as you pass each mile marker. Do you need to slow down? Do you need to speed up? You'll know because you know your body.
If you are using a GPS watch or Smartphone app, looking back at your training to see the improvements over time will be a nice feeling.













12















Goals










If following a set plan isn't your thing, just take an al a carte approach to your running.
If you are the type of person who likes to plan, have a think about what motivates you to run.

Group running: Do you ultimately want to join a social group of runners? Then find a running group near you and find out when and where they run.
Many of these groups have novice programs such as C25K, which some find easier to do as part of a group for the extra support.
If joining a group isn't your thing and yet you'd still appreciate some company on your journey, rope a friend in. Having somebody else involved might keep you honest when you feel like taking a pass.

Love to explore? Plan routes that take you to new places. Or, better yet, don't plan your routes and just run in a new direction each day for a set amount of time.

Want to be healthier? Buy a heart rate monitor and make it your goal to reach, and stay in your zone for an increasingly longer time each time you run.

Love a challenge? Make a goal that you feel like is slightly out of your reach, and plan to achieve it.

Losing weight: If losing weight is your goal remember that it takes a while for the body to adapt to a new fitness régime. Don't expect the pounds to fly off initially, in fact I'd go as far to suggest staying off the scales for a few weeks.
Many new runners are disappointed that they haven't lost weight in the early days, some have even gained a little.
The reasons are many; toning, muscle mass and increased appetite from exercise can often lead to slight weight gain. The point is not to focus on weight at first.
Concentrate on 'running your ass off' rather than running your actual ass off for the first few weeks.
Remember the fact that you are running means you are developing a new, healthy and sustainable lifestyle, and forming good habits.
There will be ample opportunity to focus on weight loss after your body has had a chance to adapt to your new activity levels.

Personal Fitness Goals
Make a plan that suits you, and ideally it should fit your life. How many days can you set aside time for running? Don't plan on doing any more than that.
Think of your plan in terms of weeks. Incorporate two rest days (preferably separated in the week), and at least one cross-training day.
Rest and recovery are hugely important for our bodies to adapt to training.

Distance Goals
When I first started, I had a distance goal: I wanted to run a whole loop near my house that was three miles long without walking.
It was slow going at first. I ran/walked the circuit initially. Every day I'd push myself to run further, and walk shorter distances between my running spurts, picking out new milestones and landmarks to get to before I took a walk break.
When I finally reached my goal of not stopping to walk at all, there was a huge sense of achievement.
I imagined my lungs healing themselves of the trauma years of smoking had inflicted. I imagined the excess fat stores getting smaller, and my underused leg muscles emerging from underneath them.
Next goal? I timed myself running that loop and then found even bigger loops.
When you set a distance goal, consider the time that you're willing to commit to running each day you go out.
If you don't have much time, pick a short distance.
As a beginner, it took me about forty minutes to do my three mile loop. The entire session could end up taking an hour when getting ready before and changes afterwards were taken into account.
I found at times I was making excuses of not having enough time if I didn't have a full hour to spare.
The answer was to find a shorter distance; in my case I ran out and back for one mile, giving me a shorter distance and time.
In reality I've found over the years that making time for running gets easier as it becomes part of who you are.
I would have considered people running at 11pm or 5am insane before I started running.  On a recent family holiday to Venice, Italy (not the easiest place in the world to plan a run given the streets are actually water) over four days I managed a ten and fifteen-mile, with five miles at my marathon pace, and a nine mile run with 5x1200 meter repeats on three of the days, each at 5:30 in the morning.
I can honestly say I didn't find it difficult. In fact I'd go as far as saying I often found doing the same four or five mile run earlier in my running career harder. The body and the mind adapt, the trick is not to expect too much too soon.
We live in a very instant world where so much is available at the touch of a button. Running and fitness in general are more primal; they take time so require taking small steps and not looking too far ahead. The results and fitness gains come in time but patience is key.
A distance goal can be accomplished in any environment. Treadmills and tracks come to mind quickly because the distance is measured for you.
But if you don't have a treadmill or track easily accessible, or if you find them tedious, measure out a route with running apps such as MapMyRun, a GPS unit, or on Google maps, and make that route your goal.
If you're like me and get bored easily, then measure out several routes of the same distance. You could even use a GPS unit (see Gearing Up) and run/walk half your desired distance in any direction and then retrace your steps back home to finish your goal.
Try to run more the second half of your run than the first, using the first section to warm up the leg muscles.
There is no rulebook for running, it is a trial a error type endeavour.

Race Goals
Having a race as your goal is a great way to keep up your new running habit. But again, be modest and pick a race that's doable.
Even if it's a 1-mile downhill fun run, it will be great to prepare for, and will motivate you to stick with your plan.
The C25K plan is an obvious go-to guide for those looking to run a five kilometre race at the end of their running induction period - it can be a great way to mark progress.
Having a race date on a calendar can also be a wonderful motivator. If you think having a race goal would help you, just do it; sign up for a race nearby, pay the entrance fee upfront, and mark the date in that calendar making sure you have ample time to prepare.
There's nothing like money spent to help you keep your resolution.
If you choose to make your goal a race it's important to increase your distance gradually, and have adequate amounts of rest and cross-training days as you prepare.
The time pressure of a race deadline can have the effect of pushing you on which can be good, but it's also important not to get carried away and overdo it.
The last thing you need is an injury which sets you back or even puts you off altogether.

Long races
Though I wouldn't recommend it, if you decide to choose a long race (13 miles or more) as your first big goal, be sure to give yourself plenty of time before race day to train up to the distance - I'm talking months and maybe even years here.
It's OK to still register and pay for the race early on to keep yourself motivated. Many people want to 'tick' the marathon box: been there, done that, got the tee shirt.
This is probably not the greatest idea for a beginner, as it's not the most sustainable way to take up running as a change of lifestyle.
Many who end up using marathon distance as their first race goal end up injured, or running under-prepared and so have a less than enjoyable experience.
I was one of them.

How Not to Run a Marathon
As mentioned, coming from a very sedentary lifestyle and being unfit and overweight put a lot of pressure on my body. I struggled with 'runners knee' for the last few weeks before my first big race and ran it injured.
In essence; it was pretty much a lesson in how not to run a marathon. However I loved every second......well maybe not every second at the time, but certainly in retrospect.
So while quite literally running ahead of yourself and going from zero to marathon is widely frowned upon amongst the experts, I would say; strive for your goals, but with a large pinch of realism.
Be aware that your body is adapting. Listen to it and ease up when it starts objecting.
Don't treat the race as the be-all and end-all either. It's the journey that really counts.
I remember the enjoyment of progressing with my long runs (the staple run of any marathon training plan).
Ten miles ...furthest run ever.... thirteen miles... half a marathon ... sixteen miles - even further, the sheer exhilaration of this progression was a real thrill and brought a unique sense of achievement.
So whether you decide to focus on a small goal and run one small loop non-stop, or you decide to look at the big picture and take on 26.2 miles, try to enjoy the journey in the knowledge that you are achieving something special every time you lace up and head out the door.
This is the new you, you're a runner, you're healthier and happier.













13















Running to Lose Weight




Running for weight loss is often seen as a sure thing.
So many people look for a quick fix and see increased exercise as a silver bullet, but then get discouraged when they don't get the results they hoped for.
Don't get me wrong, the title of this book is Run Your Ass Off, so of course it can be done.
There are other indirectly related ways of achieving your weight loss goal through running though.

Falling in Love
This is a non-weight-loss-focused approach of simply learning to fall in love with running for what it is and what it has to offer.
Running is an activity that can yield so many positives, both mentally and physically. Making it part of who you are, wanting to improve. Running further and faster. Wanting to compete in races.
If you follow this approach,  improvements will come and  weight loss will automatically follow.
Running specifically for weight loss can be a bit like watching a kettle boil.

Grinding it Out
This usually involves running, often whilst not particularly enjoying it, rather as a means to an end.
While I think few would argue that Falling in Love offers the greater chance of long term success, it is sometimes necessary to Grind it Out.
The fact is, sometimes people will want to run their asses off but have no desire to 'become' runners.
It is a path that can often end in disappointment though, so I do want to reiterate some things that will help the weight-loss process in the hope that such people get the results they crave.

The Scales
Most people who are new to any form of exercise make the mistake of scales-watching. My first tip would be don't look at the scales for the first month, so as to give your body time to adapt.
Many are very quickly discouraged by the lack of weight loss shortly after taking up running.
This - particularly amongst women - can often be caused by things like lost fat being negated by muscle gain, water retention, increased activity leading to increased appetite, and therefore refueling over-compensation.

Calories Out/Calories In
It's generally accepted that running a mile burns approximately one hundred calories.
So burning three hundred calories followed by a larger dinner or an extra snack may lead to an uneven balancing effect when it comes to calories in and calories out.
Building fitness and endurance to the point where you can run for an hour or more will mean that you get to the point of burning many more calories, and therefore being able operate a calorie deficit without having to be too rigid about diet.
In short, the more you run, the more you can allow yourself rewards without the associated guilt.

Time of Day
While building up the ability to run for a long time is a surefire way to lose weight, there are other ways to aid that too.
Being able to run first thing in the morning in a fasted state will help boost your metabolism. It can also encourage your body to use fat as fuel.
Think of it like this: your body burns fuel to release energy to allow you to run. This energy will be taken from the easiest and most readily available source.
The easiest energy source for our bodies is carbohydrate stored as glycogen. So if you have a banana and a couple of slices of bread for breakfast and then go for a run three hours later - your body will mostly fuel itself from your recently replenished glycogen stores.
If however you have slept all night and then asked your body to fuel a run before breakfast, it will still burn any readily available fuel in the form of glycogen (carbs), but will be forced to burn fat when those stores are used up.
It must be said at this point that running on empty, (often referred to as fat adaptation), should be done gradually. Distance and time needs to be increased slowly to allow you to become accustomed to it.
As you do become accustomed and can run for longer, the greater the chances of dipping into those fat reserves and thus losing weight.

Know Yourself
So understanding how your body reacts to food and to exercise is really half the battle.
If you run to lose weight and yet don't manage to mix in some high intensity or fat-adapting runs, you are far less likely to succeed.
The problem with this is that you can't just take up running on Monday and then do an early morning, fat adapted run a couple of days later.
It takes time to build fitness and stamina which is why Falling in Love has a better success rate.
But if you can't love running, at least endure it - do a Couch to 5K plan, build a base without watching the scales.
Having that base will allow you to move on to some high intensity and fat-burning distances.
If you get to that point while eating a sensible diet, there is little doubt your weight will only go in the desired direction.













14















Running To Stand Still




So you're now well on the road to becoming a runner. You're training your body to meet the new requirements you've set it.
Your metabolism will naturally increase as you progress, though I'd still advise caution when looking at the scales.
As mentioned, body toning can in some cases cause static or increased weight-gain at first, due to increased muscle density.
So don't be discouraged if that's the case with you; remember you're laying the foundations for a whole new lifestyle.
As a runner you'll have the rest of your life to get to where you want to be weight-wise. Running is hard to beat as a great calorie burner and more importantly a fat burner.
If your main objective is to quite literally run your ass off and lose weight, there are a couple of other factors worth considering.

Sports Drinks
Don't get sucked in by TV and media advertising selling specialised sports products, particularly  drinks as a crucial must-have. By loading up on sugary sports drinks or snacks before a run, you'll teach your body to simply burn the easiest, most readily available energy source i.e. the half liter of sugary crap you've just downed.
Instead try to get your body used to exercising (especially in the mornings) in a fasted state.
As mentioned, this will automatically switch your body's fat-burning capabilities on, especially as you build mileage. Don't worry if you find it hard at first - your body will soon adapt and before long you'll be noticing the difference in the mirror and in clothes size.
Be wary of  hunger pangs too though, because as your metabolism increases so will your appetite. Demanding more of your body will change your body's fueling requirements. Try to fulfil these requirements post-workout with simple whole foods like fruit, yogurt and nuts rather than highly processed snacks.
I remember during my first marathon-training going out and running a new 'longer distance' run every Saturday, and sitting on the couch that night rewarding myself for my endeavours!
Of course, there should be a place for guilt free rewards after a hard run; but the trick is not to overdo it, especially if weight loss is your number one goal.

Calories
One hundred calories burned per mile while running is often accepted as an average.  So say you run three miles, and then drink a regular sized bottle of 'sports' drink.
The amount of calories burned (300 approx) would be replaced by half (150 approx). It's simple math - increase energy output, decrease sugar input.
So while I would always recommend running for the overall physical and mental benefits, if your only reason to run is weight-loss, try to keep some interest by measuring distance and time during your runs so you can keep an eye on your progress.
You might surprise yourself by starting for the weight reason and continuing because you get bitten by the running bug. I've meet plenty of people who took up running to lose weight only to find themselves enjoying it so much they continued long after their weight goals have been met.
This my friends, is what a healthy sustainable lifestyle looks like.
I have already mentioned multiple times the importance of slowing down and not running too fast when starting out. It might be worth reiterating this in relation to calorie burn and weight loss.
Running as slowly as possible when starting out not only helps you feel better able for the challenge of the new activity, but running slower can often lead to a higher calorie burn per mile.
If I were to run three miles at ten minutes per mile it would take me thirty minutes. If I did the same distance at twelve minutes per mile it would take thirty-six minutes. That extra six minutes exercise is six minutes additional  calorie burning.
So again, don't be afraid to slow down.
If you have ever been to the gym, you may have noticed a graph with different 'zones' on some of the equipment.
The 'Fat Burning Zone' is always at the lower end of the intensity scale; this is because it's widely accepted that our bodies metabolise fat at a lower intensity whilst burning carbs at the higher end of the scale.
This is because more energy is needed for higher intensity workouts, and carbohydrates are much easier for the body to break down into energy.













15















Where to Run




Treadmill, Trail or the Open Road
Differences in terrain aren't just about scenery. There are many factors that should go into your decision about where to run.
Of course, the first thing to think about is what is most appealing, or indeed the least.

Treadmill
Personally I've always hated treadmills because of the feeling of being that hamster stuck in a wheel not getting anywhere.
But when my daughter was born, getting up and running out the door in the mornings or evenings was simply not possible. So much like a hamster, I learned to adapt and embrace that wheel.
I also got excellent value from my Netflix subscription: the marriage of box sets and treadmill-running was a real lifesaver for me, especially during marathon training
There is of course also the benefit of not having to worry about weather, street lighting or variable underfoot conditions in winter.

Trails and the Open Road
If you read the Tips and Tricks section, you know that for safety reasons, you should elect to run on the side of the road that faces traffic.
But because road surfaces tend to have a crown shape to them to allow rainwater to drain off easily, running on the same side of the road has it's downsides -- specifically the left side of your body.
One leg will always be hitting the ground a little lower than the other. While this isn't so much of a problem at the time, over months and years it could lead to some undue strain.
Finding a flatter location to run on occasion is a good way to even out the overuse that on the road running can cause.
Try a woodland trail or running track every once in a while to give your left leg a break.

Impact
Running is an activity which can create a lot of impact on the body.
The place you will feel this the most is in your knees. While this is great for bone density, it could give you some pretty nasty knee problems if you're not careful.
So when thinking about where to run, think about how soft your chosen surface is.
Usually, dirt and grass are the softest surfaces to run on. Running tracks vary greatly depending on the surface material  used and how new the track is.
If you have a new track near you, this could be the best surface for achy knees.
Treadmills will vary machine to machine, but are usually not so giving.
As far as street running goes, asphalt is softer and better for your knees than concrete, even though it may not seem that way.

The Bounce Test
I always think of it like this; if you got three bowling balls and dropped them simultaneously on three different surfaces - concrete, asphalt and dirt - how would they react?
The ball would hardly bounce on the dirt, it would probably make a small indentation and move a little off the asphalt but would make no impact on the concrete, bouncing back up the highest of all.
This illustrates perfectly the order of 'forgiveness' of the different surfaces.
The way you run also affects your knees.
'Heel striking' which is where the heel of your foot strikes the ground first, causes a natural breaking action and sends a shock up through the foot, lower leg and into the knee.
If you can land on your forefoot, this will allow the calf muscles to act as a shock absorber protecting the joints and stopping that breaking motion which is ultimately wasted energy.
Again, consider doing a gait analysis. This will illustrate your running form, the objective being to establish which type of shoe best suits you.
It may also be helpful in helping you to promote forefoot striking as you become more accustomed to running, but for now, don't overthink things and do whatever feels natural.

Variety
Don't be afraid to shake things up.
There really is no better way to get acquainted with a location, whether it's where you live, work or an area you are visiting.
For me, once a person who saw everything from the inside of a motorised vehicle at between 30 to 120 miles an hour, becoming a person travelling on foot at about 6 miles an hour was a true revelation.
It was like having my eyes opened; I grew to really love exploring new routes around my home, and also the places I was visiting.
If you are training for a race; you also need to think about including some variety in your workout.
This is basically impossible if you always run on a track, since you'll be on the same flat surface running the same curves every time you run.
You can get a little more variety with a treadmill that has an incline feature, but this is fairly limited.
If you're training for a race, make sure to research the route and include at least one or two runs a week in a similar environment to the one you'll be running in.
If there's a one-mile long incline in the race, find something similar to train on.
If your race is a trail activity running on small dirt trails through the woods, prepare in a similar environment.
It will prepare you both mentally and physically.

Planning Routes
Once you develop a rhythm in your running and know your style a little better, you'll want to start planning routes for certain distances.
Unless you carry with you a GPS device or smartphone that records your distance, it's important to plan out routes ahead of time so that you know how far you are running.
Again, this variety can be one of the more fun parts of making running plans. If you've already made (or downloaded) a certain race schedule or set a certain distance goal, all that's left to plan is where you'll run.
Without a GPS device, there are two ways to do this.
You could plan a course on Google Maps or with some other online map. I use MapMyRun.com which is very exact and very easy.
There are potentially a couple of problems with this though. Firstly, once you actually get out on your run, you may not remember the course you planned.
The other issue is it is very difficult to truly know the terrain if you don't see it in person. If you need to train for a race featuring certain hills to prepare for, you'll want to find similar hills in your area.
Another, less environmentally friendly opinion is to jump in your car, push the mileage counter button and find a route that fits your needs. This also helps to avoid less desirable areas or one with bad pavements or no pavements at all.
These things are often hard to identify on a map or app. Safety should always be your number one priority - no point in finding what looks like a perfect route online and winding up running through a war zone.
Investigate parks in your area for trails.
This will help in several ways. Most obviously, running on trails reduces the traffic danger. In addition, routes through parks give you flatter and often curb-free surfaces as opposed to roads or pavements.
Unfortunately, measuring distances through parks can be difficult though it's possible to use Google to draw out lines.
But also look for designated running trails with pre-measured distances.













16















Eat - Drink - Sleep




Three is the magic number; the three wise men, three musketeers, Earth, Wind & Fire, the Bee Gees... the list goes on.
Exercise, diet and sleep is another powerful trinity.
Concentrating on running while also attending to these three pillars will create a stable, successful platform to losing weight and getting healthy.

EAT

Carb-loading
As you run miles and burn up calories, your metabolism will be screaming for nutrition.
Your body needs certain things as you burn up the miles, because it uses specific materials for the pursuit of running.
So don't just grab whatever bag of chips is nearest you when you have a hunger craving - eat smart.
While it's true that a good meal full of carbohydrates (pasta or bread) will give your body extra energy for a run the following day, this is not necessary, especially if you're running to lose weight.
Carbohydrates are a form of sugar (energy) that your body can easily break down for use. Which is why it's great for running but bad for dieting.
Don't starve your body of the energy it needs, but don't overdo it either. Keep in mind that wholegrains are much better for health than more processed, "white" carbs. Wholegrain contain more fiber and fulfils other dietary needs your body has in addition to straight-up energy.

Vitamin C
This vitamin is not only good for boosting your immune system, but has also been shown to decrease muscle soreness.
The best way to get vitamin C is by eating lots of fresh fruit and vegetables (preferably raw).

Protein
Vital for building and repairing muscles. It can be a good idea after a long run to consume a high protein drink that contains some carbs.
All that breaking down of your muscles you just did tearing it up on the trails begs for some protein to build them back up stronger. The carbohydrate content helps facilitate the processing of the protein.
Also, your body's sugars and salts (aka electrolytes) are well-depleted after a good workout. You can find great protein drinks or powders in any grocery store. Make a smoothie with milk and some added whey powder, or just drink a glass of milk with some honey mixed in.
Eggs (especially the whites), milk, yogurt, nuts, soy, fish (especially salmon) and chicken breast are all great sources of protein to add to your daily diet.

DRINK

Water and other Hydrators
Stay hydrated. Be sure to hydrate thoroughly after and before you run. It is widely advised that runners should drink to thirst while running i.e. let your body guide you.
When you're finished a run, again drink as much as your body wants. I've always hated carrying a water bottle and so got used to not drinking during runs, I'd simply bring some change and pop into a shop if I really needed it.
You might be afraid of drinking too much water for fear of getting a cramp or having to use the bathroom mid-workout. But side-cramps or stitches generally come from digesting food (not water) and breathing problems.
So if you feel you need fluids, take them.
Try to get in the habit of drinking more water every day, this way you won't have to overanalyze if you have enough during runs.
It will also help curb your new runner's appetite.

SLEEP
A good diet is an obvious partner for exercise and the one that is always getting the headlines.
But good sleep should have equal standing as a tool with which to get fit and lose weight.
Our circadian rhythms have taken a hammering in the last century.
First electricity came along to interrupt  the natural cycle of darkness and light. People started to sleep less. Television compounded this.
Now the internet has further compounded it by making us all constantly connected, the 24/7 generation. We spend hours each day looking at screens. Our bodies' own ability to create a natural ebb and flow of day and night hormones has been greatly diminished.
People are sleeping far less than ever before. Urbanisation has also brought long work hours and commutes. In many societies people are cash rich-time poor.
So what is the first thing to get slashed when time is of the essences? You guessed it; sleep.
So what's the big deal? Some people will say they can operate fine on six hours rest a night. The truth is that many who end up doing this are in fact sleep-deprived.
We all accept that not giving the body the nutrients it needs over a period of time will be detrimental to our general health.
Sleep is no different, it is nutrition for the brain.
Being tired all the time can have a serious impact on your overall health. If you are not getting enough sleep and embarking on a new fitness regime such as the one this book is advocating will doom you to failure.
Fatigue from sleep deprivation is a two-pronged attack on your best intentions. Firstly, fitting exercise into a busy lifestyle when you are already deprived of sleep is unsustainable.
If one of the pillars of sleep, exercise and diet is off, there is no stability. They need to be given equal attention.
The other big problem with living a sleep-deprived lifestyle is hunger. Feeling tired or hungry are easily confused.Tiredness can often manifest itself by way of hunger pangs, which can lead to late night snacking, bad choices in food and reduced willpower to resist the urge to overeat.
Snacking late at night can also mean going to bed with a digestive system that is engaged, making sleep difficult and so getting a bad night's sleep.
Eating late at night may also lead to you not having an appetite in the morning, and skipping breakfast can leave your body more susceptible to putting on weight.
It is a vicious circle, you end up skipping meals, snacking on the wrong things, needing a pick-me-up because you are tired and malnourished, so you reach for a latte or soda for a short-lived boost. Feeling a secondary crash after this boost and then finally not having the energy to get in some exercise.
Eating the wrong things at the wrong time can affect your sleep in a detrimental way. Exercising at the wrong time can also have a negative impact.
Running too close to bedtime can increase core body temperature, speed up your metabolism and generally energize you at a time when you should be doing the opposite.
You end up tired after a bad night's sleep and are less motivated to avoid the wrong food and also to continue your exercise regime.
Getting a run in earlier will boost energy and metabolism at the right time of the day. It will give you time to cool down and be in a better suited state for sleep when bedtime comes around.
Finishing a run at least three hours before sleeping should give ample time for the body to attain a sleep-suited state.
So set a bedtime and try to stick to it, remembering that the hours you get before midnight are the real bonus hours. Turn off those smartphones and tablets an hour before bedtime.
Make sure your room is cool and dark and .... sleep your ass off.













17















Sugar:The Drug of A Nation




Although this book is designed to be a beginner's guide to running, there is a natural overlap with diet.
Too many times I've seen people fail because of flat-out misconceptions about exercise and diet.
Again, running is not a silver bullet to weight loss in its own right.
We have previously touched on the calories burned by running, averaging one hundred calories per mile.
Simple math can then be used to operate a calorie balance or deficit, right?
While technically this is true, it doesn't take a very important factor into account - the food industry.

The SugarWash
We are living through an unfortunate time in human evolution - or more specifically -  the evolution of the food industry and their multi-billion marketing departments.
I used to view things in a very simple way, eating less and  exercising more = good health.
When I came across someone who looked overweight, my immediate thought was they ate too much and didn't exercise enough.
But of course it's not quite that simple.
The issue with such a notion is our brains are being hijacked at every turn. Everywhere we look there are adverts appealing to our senses - making us experience feelings of hunger and desire that may not have existed without such stimuli.
Temptation is everywhere; you do not have to seek out unhealthy snacks anymore, they will find you - from the office supply shop to the DIY store, to the pharmacy, the last thing you are faced with in almost every store before the checkout is junk food.
We all know how nice these things taste, the perfect ratio of fat and sugar that can give our brains that surge of pleasure.
As a race we are programmed to desire sustenance when available. We have evolved from creatures who lived with feast or famine principles. Fatten up during times of plenty to survive those cold winters of dearth.
The problem is we now live in an age of eternal plenty. There seems almost endless access to sufficient and indeed excessive amounts of empty, fattening calories.
To most of the developed world, there are no cold winters of dearth. Indeed malnutrition these days manifests itself in obesity and diabetes rather than stark images of extended-bellied, skeletal African children that was etched onto our brains during the latter stages of the last century.
As an adult it requires a lot of determined self discipline to resist not only the temptation but our own nature. For a child who walks at eye level to row after row of sugary temptation at every turn, it's a SugarWash.
I remember getting sweets and treats as a kid. I remember as I got a little more independent doing odd jobs for pocket money. This was the first point in my life I had a decision to make about what to spend my money on. It will of course be no surprise that I spent it on sweets, ice-cream, sugary drinks etc.
The difference was there were one or two stores where I could buy them and the range of things to buy wasn't huge. Sweets were bought in large containers by the shop owner and separated out into small bags - the ten penny bag as we knew it. Now you can walk into a supermarket and buy a multipack of candy, which is the equivalent of twenty five '10p Bags' for the same price per bag as it was twenty or thirty years ago.
But wait, there's more: the special offer Buy One Get One Free, or Three for the Price of Two!
Now, all of a sudden you have one kilogram of sweets for half the price it was a couple decades ago.
We can now buy the equivalent of what the shopkeeper used to buy wholesale for much cheaper than he could back then.
The same goes for sugary drinks: per millilitre it's now far cheaper than it was thirty years ago because of volume size and special offers, not to mention free refills in some fast food establishments.
Prices going down is usually seen as a positive, but in this case it's laying the foundation of access to harmful amounts of a toxic substance.

Toxic
It may seem a harsh way to describe a naturally occurring substance that is after all an important part of the human diet, but the truth is we are now at the point with sugar that we were many decades ago with tobacco.
There was a time when it too was not viewed as toxic. The only difference between the two as far as I can tell is that there is a safe limit to the amount of sugar we can have and indeed require in our diet.
Highly processed, highly addictive and everywhere, the supermarkets are wall to wall with hundreds of thousands of products, and about eighty percent is processed with added sugar.
It's not just the obvious things like candy or the rows of sugary drinks. Breakfast cereal is better suited to the confectionary section, kids' cereal with smiling, happy, fun characters that contain more sugar than chocolate cake.
'Diet', 'Low Fat' options to appeal to those wanting a healthy choice yet contain FOUR teaspoons of sugar per thirty gram serving. That's well over half the recommended daily allowance on what is being touted as a 'healthy option'.
We are being sold the idea that fat is the enemy, therefore slogans and sales pitches that proclaim 'Fat Free' are seen by people as a better choice, especially by those that are trying to lose weight.
The thing is that 'Fat Free' almost always means 'High Sugar' when it comes to processed food.
That kilogram of candy I mentioned before is of course one hundred per cent fat free. But does that mean someone who ate that everyday would not get fat?

The Science Bit
The answer to that question lies in the way our bodies digest sugar.
Put simply, ingesting large amounts of sugar-rich food will put our bodies into fat-storing mode. Sugar needs little digestion, so eating or drinking highly sugared products will travel quickly through the system as they contain no fibre to slow down the process.
This sugar is like a flash-flood to the liver which has no other way of storing it other than to convert it into fat by producing insulin (the fat storing hormone). So what started out as fat-free in your mouth is immediately turned into fat by the bodies own digestive mechanism.
Energy release via carbohydrates including sugars is much quicker than via fat. Our bodies will always 'deal with' or breakdown the carbs first as a 'go-to' energy source.
So if we eat a diet too high in sugary carbs we will be predisposing ourselves to accumulating extra body fat.
That bowl of 'healthy' cereal and glass of fruit juice in the morning will spike your blood sugars and send you into a fat storage mode.
Again, don't confuse things like 'Sports' drinks, smoothies or fruit juice as being healthy. They all have very high sugar content and should be taken in moderation.
The 'sports drink' itself is the by-product of food industry genius - the perfect conduit to con kids and adults alike.
They use celebrity role models to endorse these products along with 'further, faster' tag lines to make kids think it's necessary to excel. In reality, it's colored, sugary water that would be better poured down the drain.
I often cringe when I see people out running with fuel belts full of sports drinks and gels. Don't get me wrong; they do have a place, especially in endurance sport, but training with them is just teaching your body to fuel from sugar rather than use the existing energy system.
For those looking to lose weight it's just replacing what is being burned, and a sure fire way to get disheartened when the desired results are not achieved.
Seeing kids downing these drinks to be like their sports heroes is nothing short of tragic. They are part of a generation of kids in the developed world that has an almost unrestricted access to a nutritionless mountain of rubbish food.
The diabetes and obesity figures bear this out. The food manufacturers and marketing companies have a lot to answer for. Having run many big city marathons it's always staggering to see the amount of sports 'products' being peddled to people along the way.
And when it comes to finish times for marathons, the figures contradict what the sports product companies are telling us.
If their sales patter is to be believed, finish times for marathon races should be improving but they are not.
World records have fallen by a few minutes, mostly in tandem with the emergence of East African nations, but generally speaking the average times have increased. Meaning people used to actually be faster without that 'miraculous' sports drink or gel.

Breaking the Cycle
So what is the answer? If I had it I would be a very wealthy person. For me education is key. We have heard the term 'Sugar Tax' being bandied about for a long time now.
The very people who have to share some of the blame for where we are now - the food and marketing industries tell us that it's our fault.
They use exercise as smokescreen, telling us that we are not active enough. The truth is it would be very difficult for most people to negate bad diet with exercise, such is the calorific tsunami surrounding us.
It's hard to break the cycle too. Christmas lasts for nearly one quarter of the year. Halloween is a sugar feast that precedes that for a month, and in the New Year the stores start stacking up easter eggs.

The War on Junk Food
Each time I go into a store, buy something and walk out having not succumbed to undeniably attractive and delicious treats I tell myself; thats a win.
Marketing and Food Industry 0: me 1. Thats the way I see it, as a war.
There are battles to be fought every day, especially if you mix kids and pester power into the mix.
When my daughter starts pestering me for junk food I don't just say no anymore, I tell her why - remind her that too much sugar is not good, and that treats are not supposed to be an every day thing.
Of course they have a place, life is too sort not to enjoy some of the pleasures.
But the war will go on and we need to know the enemy.

Moderation
So if you truly want to run your ass off it's important not to get caught up in a cycle of reward.
Keep sugar and treats to a minimum. Drink plenty of water, as increased activity will lead to increased thirst which can easily be mistaken for hunger.
Choose low carb snacks like nuts to get rid of the munchies.
Try to stay away from the store as much as possible. If you need fruit and vegetables, try to buy them from a dedicated fruit and veg shop where there will be far less temptation than a supermarket.
Shop online and have the goods delivered: they haven't yet found a way to emit the smell of baked cookies through your computer to tempt you to buy more.
The geography of supermarkets is also designed to tempt you into impulsive buys with special offers and new products.
Make a list of things you need for lunches, dinners and snacks and stick to it. Buy a treat for a Saturday evening and enjoy it after a run.
Win the War on Junk. You'll be happier you did.













18















The Ultimate Fat-Burning Workout




Turbo Charge Your Metabolism

The most effective way to burn fat and lose weight through running is 'Short Sharp' high intensity running.
Repetitions (or reps) are simple short-distance or time-defined intervals run at a prescribed intensity.
I have followed numerous marathon training plans over the years, and they all have a similar structure in that they are often broken down into phases or cycles with a lot of endurance running building distance, but often at lower intensity at the beginning.
The later cycles have higher intensity workouts with intervals or reputations at a prescribed pace or distance. It is during this cycle including the intervals that I tend to loss weight.
The reason for this is that short sharp running literally turbo-charges your metabolism.
Running ten by one hundred meters, or ten by twenty to thirty seconds as close to as fast as you can, will do a couple of pretty incredible things.
Firstly the elevated metabolism means that even hours later our bodies are in 'after burn' mode.
This means we are burning more calories even in a sedentary state. This is, to my mind, the holy grail of weight loss - again as long as we don't over do the refueling process.
Another effect this type of running has is to improve our high intensity fitness, (often referred to as VO2Max) which is a measure of the maximum rate at which the muscles, lungs and heart can effectively use oxygen during exercise.
The last thing short, sharp running will do is increase leg speed and running form. This in turn means that running at lower intensity will be perceived by your body as much easier.
The diagram below explains how to run 'Diagonals' which are an easy to understand form of high intensity training.

Diagonals






These are an excellent and easy way to not only increase your fitness, but a sure fire way to supercharge your metabolism.
They can be carried out on any sports field, and the premise is simple - jog or walk the goal line/try line/end line depending on your chosen field.
Then run as close to all-out as you can between opposite corners. Repeat several times and try to add repetitions to each workout.
If you want to learn how to lose weight through running - this should be your go-to work out, and if you can do these once or twice a week you will see optimum results quickly.
A word of caution here though; it is still important to first build up your stamina and condition your musculoskeletal before undertaking high intensity running.
Doing a workout like Diagonals or two hundred meter repetitions before your body has had a chance to adapt to the demands of running is asking for trouble in the form of injury.
Best to ease yourself in gently, give yourself a few weeks of easy running first, and when trying Diagonals for the first time don't push too hard. Build the intensity over the next few weeks and let your body adapt.
Always warm up well and stretch before undertaking a fast running session to avoid injury.













19















Couch to 5k










Here is a basic guide on how to prepare yourself to be able to run five kilometres non-stop over an eight week period.
This is an excellent way for those who are not as fit as they once were - or are completely new to running - to build up some distance and stamina.
It is a general guide though, and dependent on what your starting  fitness  level is. You should at least be able to walk briskly for sixty minutes before starting this program.
If you can't, give yourself a few weeks of brisk walking first, add a couple of sixty second jogs in if you like.
There are three workouts per week, you choose the days. Try not to bunch workout days together, it's best to have every second day as a workout day.
The rest of the days don't have to be complete rest days either - walking on those days will help build fitness and help your body adapt to exercise.

Week 1
Workout 1 -Walk 2 min — Run 1 min (Repeat 6 times)
Workout 2 -  Walk 2 min — Run 1 min (Repeat 8 times)
Workout 3 -  Walk 2 min — Run 1 min (repeat 10 times)

Week 2
Workout 1 -  Walk 2 min — Run 2 min (Repeat 6 times)
Workout 2 - Walk 2 min — Run 2 min (Repeat 8 times)
Workout 3 - Walk 2 min — Run 2 min (Repeat 10 times)

Week 3
Workout 1 - Walk 2 min — Run 3 min (Repeat 6 times)
Workout 2 - Walk 2 min — Run 3 min (Repeat 6 times)
Workout 3 - Walk 2 min — Run 3 min (Repeat 6 times)

Week 4
Workout 1 - Walk 3 min — Run 5 min (Repeat 3 times)
Workout 2 - Walk 2 min — Run 5 min (Repeat 4 times)
Workout 3 - Walk 3 min — Run 5 min (Repeat 5 times)

Week 5
Workout 1 - Walk 3 min — Run 6 min (Repeat 4 times)
Workout 2 - Walk 3 min — Run 7 min (Repeat 3 times)
Workout 3 - Walk 3 min — Run 8 min (Repeat 4 times)

Week 6
Workout 1- Walk 3 min — Run 9 min (Repeat 3 times)
Workout 2 - Walk 3 min — Run 8 min (Repeat 3 times)
Workout 3 - Walk 4 min — Run 10 min (Repeat 3 times)

Week 7
Workout 1 - Walk 5 min — Run 15min (Repeat twice)
Workout 2 - Walk 5 min — Run 15 min (Repeat twice)
Workout 3 - Walk 5 min — Run 20 min (Repeat twice)

Week 8
Workout 1 - Run 20 min — Walk 5 min — Run 15 min
Workout 2 - Run 10 min — Walk 3 min — Run 20 min
Workout 3 - Run 5K

Remember this is a guide. If you feel it's a strain, reduce the length of the run sections or increase the walk sections.
Don't be afraid to add in an extra week at a lower intensity if you feel you need it.
By the same token, don't be afraid to push yourself, especially in week seven and eight when your body has had some time to adapt to what you are asking of it.
Enjoy the challenge and the journey - each step you take is a step in the right direction.
Not just in being able to run five kilometres, but also towards a newer healthier version of your old self.













20















Ready to Race




So, you've put the effort in. You've built up your fitness, lost some of that excess weight and can now run three or four miles non-stop.
This in itself is one hell of an achievement and deserves acknowledgement, so don't be afraid to pat yourself on the back. There are few times in life where we genuinely get to shape ourselves as people and see the effects of altering our behaviour in a positive way.
Well done.
So what now? Perhaps just getting out there and running is enough for you and that is absolutely fine.
But at some point you may wish to step out of your comfort zone again, and take things to the next level.

A Race
Entering races can be hard for many. Maybe it brings back thoughts of school where you had no option but to join in even though you hated it.
Maybe the thought of lining up with super slim, lanky speedsters is intimidating.
In truth road races are for people just like you. You don't need to win, you only need to compete with yourself.
There is a unique sense of exhilaration to running with a crowd, being cheered from the sidelines and a sense of accomplishment that is quite uplifting.
Not to mention all this encouragement can make you instinctively run that little bit faster, which in turns helps you improve without you really noticing the extra effort.
If you have followed my Couch to 5K plan from before you can already run the 5k distance.
Search online, find a local 5K race and enter it.
If there is a Park Run event held nearby, all the better. Park Run isn't really a race but has all the advantages of one, and it's free.
If you pick a date a few weeks in advance go back the equivalent distance into the C25K program and follow it up to race day.
Perhaps you can increase some of the run section durations. Persuade a buddy to come along; nothing like a shared experience to consolidate the bonds of friendship.
As you approach race day, taper down your running time to make sure your body gets rest and recovery.
Pick the clothes you will wear well in advance and try them out on a run beforehand.

The Buzz
Racing is a great way to experience running with other people. It doesn't have to be about competing, in fact for the majority it isn't. The main reason you should join in a race is for the experience.
But then you might be thinking, "What's the difference between running three miles by myself or with my friends than a planned race? It just seems like a regular run that I have to pay money for."
It's an understandable misconception, but the camaraderie and excitement you feel running in a race is what you can't get in your normal everyday runs, even if you run with a group.
There's something about running with complete strangers and being cheered on by complete strangers that gives you a little buzz.
Then, of course, there's all the amenities: the t-shirts (and/or other memorabilia) that you get, the complimentary water/fuel stations throughout, the goodie bag afterwards, and music belting out to give you a real rush at the finish, that is what you pay for.
When considering your first race, there's a lot to think about. There's the obvious considerations: distance, price, location, and date.
Most races happen at weekends, which might not be convenient for you. You should pick a distance that you can easily train for in the time between when you choose the race and the date.
Then there are less obvious considerations too: the terrain, the race difficulty, the scenic location, charities that the race sponsors promote, and the entertainment/ amenities offered - pretty much anything that appeals to you.

Distance
The most common distances for races are: 5k (3.1 miles), 10K (6.2 miles), 10 mile, Half Marathon (13.1 miles) and Marathon (26.2 miles).
You'll also encounter some other distances during your search, including 1-mile fun runs and ultra-marathons (more than 26.2 miles), but those are less common.
You should pick a distance that you can easily train for in the time between when you choose the race and race date.
A good amount to start with is a 5K (3.1 miles). This is very doable, but still an accomplishment.
Allow yourself several months to train for a 5k if you're a complete newbie.

Terrain
You should also think about what kind of terrain you prefer.
For the most part there are two kinds of races: road races and trail races.
Road races usually take place in towns or cities and are much more public events. They are usually bigger with more spectators (and much easier access for your own fan club to drive around and cheer you on).
Trail races are usually more low-key and often hill-running orientated. They aren't as public, but they also don't provide as many amenities (water stations, toilets, etc.)
For this reason, they also tend to be cheaper.
Your group of competitors is also likely to be much smaller in a trail race.

Pick A Date
The most important factor in deciding when to race is allowing yourself enough training time.
As a beginner, this is crucial. Here's a guide that can help you out.



5k - At least two whole months to train
10k - Four to five months
Half Marathon - Six to eight months
Marathon - Allow one year including working through the shorter distances.



Again, these times assume that you are a complete beginner.
If you plan on running each of these distances in consecutive order building up to the big marathon, then you'll have an easier and more fun time of it.
Before you commit to a race, think about other commitments in your life. Do you have a big vacation coming up where you will not be able (or not want) to train?
Will you be needing to spend a lot of time at work for an upcoming project?
The distance you choose will affect how much time you put into training on a daily basis.
For a 5k, you can get away with less than an hour of training each time you go out.
But for a 10k and 15K, you will need to start dedicating an hour of training to your running schedule.
For a half marathon, expect to be running at least two hours once a week near the end of your training.
Of course, a marathon is the biggest time commitment of all. During the last half of your training, you will be spending about an hour a day running, with your once-a-week long run taking up 3-4 hours at a time.
Lastly, consider the time of year. Do you hate hot, humid weather? Then don't pick a race in the middle of summer.
Spring and autumn are often the most popular times for races, particularly the longer distance races.

Location
Destination marathons and races are becoming more and more popular.
Exploring different countries (or even other parts of your own country that you've never been to) by racing there, is an exciting way to see and experience a place.
But for your first race, you may want to pick something closer to home. Since competitive running is a whole new experience, the first one you do will be fun just because of the novelty.
The location will also affect how difficult the race is. Some big city routes are very flat, others will have you panting up and down hills.

Price
Entrance fees can vary depending on the race distance and its sponsor.
Many races of all distances are hosted by charities who use much of the entrance fee to further their work.
If this is intriguing to you, look for a race that is sponsored by a charity you want to support.
Races also vary by how much free stuff they give you. Many events provide a t-shirt proclaiming that you ran their race and you pay for that in the entrance fee.
Some event organisers also hire musicians, give trophies, provide toilets, food and sports drinks, and sometimes host an exhibition for running products.
For safety reasons, sponsors must have insurance and hire traffic control and emergency health staff to be on hand in case of emergencies. In addition, there is a lot of equipment involved in setting up the course and used to time the racers. All of these things will be reflected in the cost of event.
Generally speaking, shorter races will cost less.
This makes sense when you consider that the shorter distance means less organization, and fewer permits the organisers will need to shut down roads for the event.

Finding a Race
Now you know the things you need to look for when searching for a race that's right for you.
Start looking online and read the reviews of other runners. The experience that others have had will help inform if the race is right for you.
Find one that looks exciting to you and fits your needs. Sign up, make your schedule and start training.

Park Run
During the last decade or so, a running revolution has been taking place. From the smallest acorns grow the largest oak trees as the saying goes.
What started out as a weekly 5K time-trial in Bushy Park, London between a few running buddies in the mid-nineties, Park Run is now an institution in running.
It is a free weekly five kilometre running event held every Saturday morning in several countries around the world.
All runs are timed and available on the Park Run website through their barcode timing system. The numbers available on their website are quite simply staggering.



78,218 events around the world each weekend.
1,245,557 runners registered.
148,777 volunteers.
57,5333,317 Kilometres completed all over the world at weekly events.



It continues to grow and expand, bringing with it the simplest message; life is short, get out there and live it.
The other thing worth mentioning is that it is completely free and everyone's invited.
Put simply there is great affirmation in meeting up on a Saturday morning with like-minded people to engage in a healthy pursuit.

Planning a Training Schedule
When training for a race, it's important to plot out a plan for how you will gradually train your body to be ready for the distance on race day.
In such a plan, your rest days are just as important as your running days, and your short runs are just as important as your long runs.
Each of these (rest, running, long and short) is molding your body by pushing you sometimes, and allowing you to recover and build muscle at other times.
While you can find numerous sources online to help you plan the weeks ahead of your race, don't be afraid to slightly modify the schedules to fit your needs.
Generic plans from a book or the Internet are really only  guidelines; if you're too busy to do your long run on a given day, just do it on a different day.
Most of all, listen to your body; if you are following a plan and have a long run scheduled but you feel drained and have a cold coming on, don't be afraid to change things up and take some rest days to recover.
It will be way more beneficial in the long run ... pun intended.



1. You should at least take one day off each week, preferably two.
2. Long runs should be preceded and followed by short runs or rest days.
3. Don't increase the length of your long run by more than 10% per week.
4. Spend one day a week focusing on a skill you'll need or want for your race (hills, speed, etc.) or cross training.



So with those tips in mind, make up a weekly schedule for yourself. Be sure to make it fit your life.
Plan your long run on a day that you don't have many other commitments. Plan your rest days for days of the week that you tend to be very busy.
Be sure to increase the distance or time that you run slowly; again, no more than 10% so that each week you are adding a little more to each of your planned 'long' runs.

Race Day Essentials

- Get up early and have a regular, carbohydrate-based breakfast (oatmeal, white bread etc) at least three hours before the race.

- Get to the race location early with plenty of time to register (get your race number).

- Do a gentle warm up by jogging for ten minutes or so before the race is due to commence. A few light stretches after this will have your muscles ready for the off.

- Don't drink too close to the start time, as the combination of this and race day nerves may have you needing the loo even as the countdown starts.

- Position yourself towards the back of the pack. You are not looking to beat anyone here; this is simply a complete- and-enjoy task.

- Take a deep breath and look around, smile and relax. You've run your ass off and deserve to be here.

- Check your shoe laces are fastened properly.

And then?

Run.

As the race gun fires, don't get too caught up in the pace of others and start going too fast to keep up. You only get to run your first race once.
Again, running too fast at the start and feeling like stopping or walking could leave you feeling bad about the experience.
Smile and run your own race. Aim to start slow, running within yourself until the last kilometre or so.
You can now afford to push things a little; focus on your breathing and then push hard over the last few hundred meters.
A great feel-good tip is to pick a runner in front of you and try to pass them before the line.
Raise your arms and grin as you cross the finish line!  The journey here hasn't just been 5 kilometres - it's been every step you've taken since you decided to make that change.
Since you decided to run your ass off.













21















Affairs Of The Heart




Your heart rate or your heart beats per minute (bpm) is a great tool that can tell you how hard your body is working at any given time.
We all know that when you climb a long set of stairs or run for the bus, our pulse is a little faster than when we're sitting in front of the television.
Your heart rate can be affected by numerous factors: age, weight,  genetics, overall health and what you're doing at the time.
But there are a couple of heart rate numbers you need to know. Remember: heart rate is measured in beats per minute (bpm).

Maximum Heart Rate
The first heart rate number you should learn is your maximum heart rate (MHR).
It's called this because it's the highest rate your heart can handle in exercise.
Remember, this number is NOT your goal, but a number you need to know to find your goal, or target heart rate (THR).
The MHR number is an approximation based on the commonly accepted idea that everyone's MHR decreases with age.
Many people have tried to come up with a formula to express this. But as no two individuals are alike, there is no formula that can tell you your exact MHR.
But since you won't be trying to push yourself to your MHR, but instead are just using the calculated MHR to find a good target zone for yourself, use the following formula:
Your MHR is 220 minus your age. So for example a 26 year old would calculate like this- 220-26=194.
This, of course, is an approximation and not an exact science, but it is an easy way to find a starting point for calculating your THR (the "zone").
If you have a heart rate monitor, then it may calculate your MHR for you using its own formula. Just plug in your age.
A more exact way to measure your MHR is to take a stress test. This can be done with medical professionals who put you on a treadmill and hook you up to some monitoring machines that tell them how hard your heart is working and when that work becomes dangerous to your health.
Throughout the test, the intensity of the workout is increased as they monitor your heart and watch for changes.
I usually calculate mine by running a hard 5K wearing a heart rate monitor. I run hard and really push as hard as possible over the last 400-600 meters.
I can then look at the details for the race on my computer, and it will give me my maximum rate at the finish, which I take as my MHR.

Resting Heart Rate
The second number you need to know is your resting heart rate (RHR). To find this number, you will need to lie down and be completely relaxed for about 20 minutes before you measure your pulse. If you remember, the best time to measure your RHR is when you first wake up, before you get out of bed.
To measure your RHR you will need a stopwatch. Have it lying near you in plain view, so that you don't have to exert any effort to see it and thus increasing your heart rate.
Remember, the heart rate is based on beats per minute, so that is what you will be counting.
After being completely relaxed, when you first wake in the morning would be an optimum time, take your hand and place two fingers directly under your jaw on your neck.
Can you feel your pulse? Make sure you can feel it well before you start counting. When you're sure you've got a good read on your pulse, look at that time keeping device that's lying in plain view and count how many beats your heart pounds in 60 seconds. You have your RHR.
There are also smart phone apps that can do this for you, a quick App Store search should bring up several.
Your RHR also changes with many factors such as age, weight and overall health. So to keep tabs on your body, measure your RHR about once a month.
Once you start running, you'll get to see the difference that it makes to your body's health as you watch your RHR decrease, indicating your growing fitness.
It can also be used if you are coming down with flu or a cold. I sometimes check my heart rate when I suspect I'm coming down with something.
Invariably it registers a few beats per minute higher than normal. Time to adjust training and concentrate on quality sleep, rest and nutrition.
Getting in those extra Zzzz's and vitamin C's at this point will get you back to your best much, much quicker than ignoring the symptoms and ploughing on with the training.
Again don't be a slave to a plan, listen to your body.

Target Zones
Now that you know your MHR and your RHR, you can start to work out your target heart rate (THR).
There are different zones for different goals.
As your heart rate increases, and you push to maintain that increased heart rate level, your body becomes more efficient at dealing with certain issues.
For example, when your heart rate is between 60 and 70 percent, your body is an expert at burning fat.
This zone is where your body burns calories most efficiently -- the most burn for the least amount of effort. If you dip under that zone, your body won't burn as many calories. If you go over the zone, you'll still be burning calories, but you'll be working harder for every calorie burned.
At 70 to 80 percent your body enters the aerobic workout zone. You still get the benefits from the fat burning zone (burning up those calories) but you get the added benefit of a heart that is learning to pump oxygen into your bloodstream more efficiently.
This is the zone you want to run in to increase your heart health, lower blood pressure, and increase overall strength.
When you go over 80 percent, your body is working in a different way; it fuels itself on carbohydrates, which are stored as glycogen in the muscles and liver.
At this intensity you are giving yourself an anaerobic workout which means your body can't remove the lactic acid in your muscles as fast as it produces it.
When you're running in this zone, you feel the strain more. Pushing yourself in this zone will increase your bodies ability to process lactic acid and also helps you further develop your muscles.
If you run regularly in this zone, you will get better at running overall, and as mentioned previously this type of running super-charges the metabolism.
So even though you'll likely burn less calories running 4 mile at 85 percent than running the same distance at 70 percent, the stimulus to your metabolism will give an after burn effect.
This means the amount of calories being burned by your resting body for several hours after your run will be higher.
So even as you sit on the couch watching TV later in the evening, that 85 percent of max run is still helping you burn up those calories. Just don't overdo the 'refueling' bit.
Fast running will have you in the 90 to 100 percent zone. This engages your fast-twitch muscles.
You shouldn't be in this zone for a long time, but it's good to push yourself every once in a while to get a well-rounded workout.
This will help you become a faster runner and boost your overall fitness or VO2Max, which is a measure of the amount of blood/O2 that your heart can pump around your body.
In addition to specific speed training I like to add some sprints or strides of 100 meters or 20 seconds to some of my easy/recovery runs.

So to sum it up:
60-70%: Fat-burning zone
70-80%: Cardio workout zone
80-90%: Performance improvement zone
90-100%: Speed training zone

At this point, you may be asking: percent? What in the world does that mean? Here's the formula to figure out your zones the old fashioned way.

First, subtract your RHR from your MHR to give you your working heart rate (WHR):

MHR - RHR = WHR    ( 194 - 70 = 124)

Then take your WHR and multiply it by the percentages you want. I want a good aerobic exercise to increase my heart health while still burning fat. So I want to have a zone between 70 and 80 percent.

70% of 124 is 86.8  (124 x .7 = 86.8)
Add this number to your RHR:
70 + 86.8 = 156.8

So 156.8 is the minimum of my "zone," or my THR. To find the upper threshold, I do the same formulas with 80 percent.

80% of 124 is 99.2 (124 x .8 = 99.2)
When I add 99.2 to my RHR, I have my upper threshold:
70 + 99.2 = 169.2

So when I'm running, I want to keep my heart rate between 156.8 beats per minute (bpm) and 169.2 bpm. Then, I will be running in the desired zone.
If like me, mathematical equations are a turn-off but you are still interested in monitoring your heart rate, invest in a HRM or GPS watch that doubles as one.
Once you input your personal details, all your zones, percentages and limits will be calculated for you.
It's definitely a worthy investment - particularly if you're running for health reasons.













22















Pains in the Ass




When I started out, I never felt much soreness until two days after a hard run, or during my first run after a long hiatus.
Every stairway, every step and every time I sat down or stood up became a reminder that I was no athlete and had no business pretending to be one.
The solution to this, go for a run. Preferably a short, easy route, often referred to as a recovery run.
This will allow your legs to freshen up without taking another hammering.
Be sure to stretch well after a recovery run. Running easy when your legs are sore will not add to the soreness, but it will help alleviate it.
I was lucky when I started in that I managed to avoid getting too many injuries. However if I could change one thing looking back it would have been taking up a supplemental activity like yoga or pilates.
After a couple of years I started to pick up some small niggles here and there, and a fellow-runner advised me to try pilates; it worked a treat.
My flexibility improved and it also helped increase my 'core' strength and conditioning.
Your core is literally your upper body muscles .. abs etc. Essentially the muscle groups that are hardly ever engaged by running.
Having a strong core does improve running ability and also help with injury prevention.
So if you are looking to add something a little different to your weekly routine look no further.
I'd love to tell you the secret to avoiding any of the sore parts associated with running, but there isn't one.
Just remember that a little bit of pain or discomfort when it comes to exercise can be a good thing, it can mean we are pushing ourselves.
At the same time you have to learn to listen to your body to know if something is wrong.
Everyone is different and depending on your body, you might be prone to some pain.
The list below is not a list of permanent injuries, and you need to remember that.
You haven't done permanent damage to yourself if you feel these things, these are just aches and pains that are communicating to your body that something is changing or needs to be changed.
So don't freak out at the first ache and give up. You may just need to take it easy and rest for a bit.
Just listen to your body and heed its warnings.
Here are some of the most common ailments and how to deal with and avoid them:

Stomach Cramps and Diaphragm Cramps
Many people call these a "stitch" or side cramp.
There are usually two causes, and they're easy to avoid, though every runner has experienced them at one point or another.
The first cause is what you ate close to your run.
If you have too much in your stomach, or food that's difficult to process, your body will probably protest by producing a pain in the side of your gut often caused by your full stomach pushing up against other organs.
When you run your body has to prioritise blood flow to your working muscles, therefore half-digested food will slip down the priority list and blood flow may be diverted away from the digestive system to the muscles that are being engaged through running.
This can lead to stomach upset and cramps. The only real solution is not to eat too close to a run.
Of course, that doesn't help if you've already eaten and you're out on the trail. If you run through the pain, it won't cause you any injury, so it's fine to keep running.
But to get rid of that stitch you'll probably have to slow down or walk a bit. I often find exhaling extra hard when breathing out helps.
The second cause is your breathing. This is a diaphragm cramp. It's a side cramp that feels a little different.
It's higher on your side, directly under your chest.
When running, it's easy to forget to breathe evenly.
Some people pant like a dog and just try to finish.
If you feel this type of cramp, your body is reminding you that your energy would be more efficiently spent if you keep a regular, steady breathing pattern.
The diaphragm is the muscle underneath your lungs that makes it possible to breathe. It also can be overused, and while you're running, if you put too much strain on that diaphragm muscle, it'll complain.
If you concentrate on breathing slowly and deeply, you'll actually get more oxygen and be able to finish stronger and better.
It can help to use your footsteps to help pace breathing. Something like breathe in for two steps and out for two.
This can be difficult to maintain, since you naturally breathe in faster than out, the point is to try different patterns and see what is best for you.
The main idea is to have a consistent breathing pattern.
As a beginner, this may seem slower than you're comfortable with, but you'll soon learn to appreciate how the slower breathing will help you keep going at an even pace

Tendonitis
This is a common pain for beginners, most common in the knees, but could occur in other joints.
Doing too much too soon can cause this.
Don't run too much from the outset.
Let your body adjust to this new form of use, or it'll feel abused and lash out at you painfully.
Listen to your body and mix up your running with other activities such and cycling, walking, pilates etc.
As your body gets more accustomed to the rigours of running, the chances of over use subside.
This is especially true for people starting out carrying a little extra weight.
When I started running, I was about 95 kgs and I'm now 78 kgs. Running for three miles then was a totally different animal to now.
There were a lot more demands being made on a body unaccustomed to those demands, never mind the additional effort caused by those extra pounds.
Again this is not a race, learn to enjoy and embrace running as part of a new way of life.
It's a long-term thing, so slow down and enjoy the journey.

Chafing
We have already touched on this in Gearing Up and it is a problem that a little experience will cure very quickly.
You will soon get to know where you are most vulnerable.
I always wince during long races to see grown men with streaks of blood from their nipples on their T-shirts.
The best way to deal with chafing is to buy clothes that prevent it, and use body guide or petroleum gel.
Keep in mind the petroleum gel can leave smear marks on clothes, so be careful if you have new, expensive running gear.

Plantar Fasciitis
This is a relatively common ailment that runners who have particularly low or particularly high arches may experience, since it's difficult to find a shoe that supports your arch appropriately.
The best prevention of course, is to buy the right shoe in the first place. However, if such a shoe is impossible to find, you may need to also buy special insoles to give you further support.
You'll recognize plantar fasciitis by the pain you feel on the top of your foot, opposite your arch, or the pain at the top part of your arch.
It is a swelling of the plantar fascia, a tissue that runs along the sole of your foot. If this is a persistent problem for you, you might want to change shoes.
As with any swelling, heating the sore area before a run and icing it after can also be helpful.
One exercise you can do that eases the discomfort is to take a tennis ball and roll it around with the bottom of your bare foot, massaging that whole area.
Calf stretches should also be helpful. You can even do a towel stretch by sitting on the ground, one leg straight in front of you.
Use a towel to pull back on the top of the foot, pulling it towards you and stretching out your foot.
It is also possible to buy toeless compression socks, which I have found very helpful in alleviating PF discomfort in the past.

Shin Splints
Incredibly common and incredibly un-fun, shin splints are a sharp pain in the shin that presents itself while you're running.
They can be caused by overuse- too much running, too fast, especially on hard surfaces.
Or by bad footwear.
But even if you take every precaution - buy good shoes and slowly increase your mileage in a methodical approach - you still may fall prey to their sting.
Shin soreness can actually be a sign of several different things going on under the surface of your skin.
It could be from the muscle along the front of your shin, hairline fractures due to constant impact, or the tendons along your shins swelling.
If it's a muscular problem, you can work out that muscle by standing flat on your feet and lifting your toes upward. Do this 5-10 times. Stretch them out the opposite way by standing on your tiptoes. Again, repeat 5-10 times.
If it's a bone issue you are probably just overusing your shins and they need a break.
You may need to ease up on your running schedule and allow your body to heal itself.  Going out on softer surfaces like grass will also help and alleviate shin splint pain.

Pulled Hamstring
This is an injury you really want to avoid.
If you overuse or overextend your hamstring, you could pull it or even tear it.
If you tear it you may even hear an audible "pop."
This is very painful. If this happens, you should visit a doctor and see what the damage is.
The pain you feel will depend on the severity of your injury. You could just feel an ache or soreness if the muscle is just strained. If the muscle or tendon is partially or fully torn, you will feel a more acute pain.
To avoid this debilitating injury, make sure you really do ease into running. Don't do too much too fast.
Don't run too fast and hard before your muscles are warmed up. If your hamstring feels tight, stretch it gently before exercising.
Make sure not to overdo your stretches. Another way to avoid a pulled hamstring is to make sure your muscles are evenly worked out. On your cross-training days, make sure to work out your leg muscles evenly so that there isn't an imbalance there.
The RICE method- Rest, Ice, Compress and Elevate was often prescribed for many running related injuries.
This advice has come under a lot of scrutiny of late because of recent studies, so my advice would be to seek out a reputable sports physiotherapist for advice and treatment when injury strikes.

Painkillers
I'm not a huge fan of taking medicine to solve a problem that could be solved by better care.
So be sure to stretch and listen to your body when you feel the pains and aches caused by your workout.
But as we get older, there are certain pains that just might need a little help going away.
Anti-inflammatory drugs like ibuprofen help reduce swelling and thus, the pain that causes most of the above ailments.
These drugs have few side effects, so they're a good choice to help you stay the course of your running plan.
But consult your doctor before you make a daily habit of taking such medications.

When to Push through the Pain and When to Pause
It's a balance and it takes some understanding of yourself to know when to push through pain, and when to listen to your body and back off.
Beginner runners come in all shapes and sizes.
You may be the kind of person who is inclined to compete with yourself until the point of injury - you need to take it easy.
Or maybe you're the kind of person who winces at any idea of pain; you might need to push a little harder when the going gets tough to achieve your goals.
The important thing to do, is know why your body is in pain. Pain is good, it's your body's way of communicating to you. You just need to learn the language.
Having perused through the list of aches and pains written here, you should generally have a good idea as to when your body is saying "slow down," as opposed to when it saying, "I'm working hard, and I want you to know that."













23















Stretching




Personally I don't advocate stretching before running when the muscles are cold.
It's better to jog for 15-20 minutes first before some light stretching before you continue with the run.
It's far more important to cool down and stretch afterwards.
This will improve flexibility and help avoid injuries.

Legs: Hamstrings and Inner Thighs
The hamstring is the muscle the runs down the back of your thigh. This is the most important muscle to stretch. It is most prone to injury if you neglect it, but it is also the muscle that will help you improve the most if you take care of it by stretching it out every time you run.
There are multiple ways to stretch out these muscles.
To focus on your hamstrings, put your left foot on a step and keep your feet pointed forward in the same direction. Keep your knees bent just a little bit.
Then lean forward at the waist until you feel the stretch at the back of your thigh. Hold the stretch for a count of 30. Then switch legs and stretch out your right foot evenly.
A variation of this stretch is easily done on a flat surface. Place your left foot a couple of feet ahead of your right foot, and slightly to the left.
Keep your left leg straight while bending the knee of your right leg. Bend at the waist, reaching for your left foot, keeping your hips square. Bend until you feel the stretch behind the thigh, then hold the stretch for a count of 30. Switch legs and repeat.
Another invaluable stretch for the hamstring requires a partner. Lie on your back with your feet straight.
Lift your left leg into the air, keeping it straight. Have your partner push the leg toward your head to the point of slight discomfort and then hold it. Concentrate on keeping both hips on the floor.
Count to 30 and release SLOWLY! Be VERY careful not to overdo this stretch.
Be sure you and your partner communicate well. Repeat with the right leg. To go even further with this stretch, do it several times with each leg. You can even alternate letting your leg be completely relaxed as your partner pushes and applying some resistance as she pushes. Again, be very careful with each other and don't overdo this stretch.
Your hamstrings are the part of your legs that, if tight, will shorten your stride, but if loose and flexible, will allow you to lengthen your stride (allowing you to go faster).
The last stretch with a partner is done specifically with the purpose of lengthening your stride.
There are a few more hamstring stretches that also incorporate its neighbour: the inner thigh.
Standing up and keeping your toes pointed forward, separate your legs about four feet apart, forming a triangle with your legs. Bend at the waist and reach for the ground. Hold this for a count of 30, then shift and reach for your right foot. Hold for a count of 30 and then switch to the left foot. A variation of this stretch can be done seated. Be sure to keep your feet flexed (toes pointed up) to get the most out of the stretch.
Lastly, there's the classic: touch your toes. This can be done standing or sitting, but sitting will give you a chance to focus on the stretch instead of concentrating on not falling over. Keep your feet flexed and reach as far as you can for a count of thirty. To get more focused on each individual leg, bend the knee of your right leg (you should be sitting down for this one) and put your right foot on the right side of your left knee. Both legs are fully on the ground, but your right leg is bent and your left leg is completely straight. Now reach for your left foot and count to 30. This focuses the stretch on your left leg. Switch sides and do the same for the right leg.
Your hamstrings are the most important muscle to stretch, so pick a few of these stretches -- the ones you're most comfortable with or feel that you need the most -- and do them regularly.

Legs: Quadriceps
Your quadricep is the muscle on top of your thigh.
First step, find something hold onto- door frame, lamp post, tree, running partner etc. Keep your right hand on the balancing item or human of choice, then bend your left leg, putting your left foot up near your backside. Grab your left ankle with your left hand and pull your foot further toward your posterior. Feel the stretch? If you're particularly flexible, you may not feel much of a stretch the first time you do this. But you will feel it after a few days of running. Switch legs and stretch out your right quad evenly.
A more complex variation of this stretch has you on the floor and will push even the most flexible to greater lengths of flexibility. Put your left knee and your right foot on the ground. Your left knee should be slightly behind you, while your right leg should be bent at a right angle with your right foot straight in front of you. Lift your left foot off the ground (behind you) and grab it with your left hand. Keep your knee on the ground. As you pull your left foot towards your backside, you should feel the stretch. To extend the stretch even further, lean slightly forward. You can take the stretch even further by starting with your right leg on the ground, bent underneath you (you would be sitting on your leg) allowing you to reach forward even further as you pull that left foot toward your backside. This variation of the flamingo stretch is not easy, and I usually find myself falling all over the place while trying to get a good stretch. I reserve it for days that I feel a little tight, but the upright flamingo just isn't giving me enough stretch to satisfy me. Make sure to switch sides and stretch both legs evenly.

Legs: Calves
After a day of running up and down hills, you'll want to pay special attention to your calves. They're a smaller muscle that really takes a beating keeping you upright on those inclines.
Stretching out calves is probably the easiest muscle group to activate. Find a wall or a tree to push against and stand facing it. Put both hands on the surface, bend your right leg and place your left leg, straight, behind you. Your left toes should be on the ground, and you should be pushing your left heel toward the ground, causing the stretch in your left calf.  Alternate legs and repeat.
Alternatively, if your terrain is lacking in trees or walls (for some reason) you could place your hands on the ground and accomplish the same stretch, though not as comfortably.
The last alternative is to stretch out your calves on a step. With both feet on top of the step and your heels at the edge (you are facing away from the step), put your left toes on the edge of the step and push your left heel down below the plane of the step you are on. It's easy to get a good calf stretch in this way, but be careful, it's also easy to overdo it and hurt yourself. After you stretch the left calf for a count of 30, switch and do the right leg.
All three of these calf stretches stretch the same muscle in the same way, just in different positions. Pick your favourite.

Legs: Shins
Can you stretch shins? Actually, yes, they need some TLC too. As you read further, you'll learn about shin splints and how stretching could alleviate pain and soreness in the too-often-unnoticed muscles that reside there. Shin stretches are simple and easy to incorporate into your routine. While seated with your legs stretched out in front of you, point and flex your feet 10 times, it's that simple.
It also helps to do a similar action standing up: stand on your tiptoes then, pull your toes up, balancing on your heels.

Back
If you have good form, you are constantly keeping your back erect. This will actually put less strain on your back then if you slouch, but you are still using the muscles in your back and its nice to honor that with a stretch.
Sit on the ground with your feet stretched out in front of you. Bend your left leg and put your left foot on the right side of your right leg (some people call this a figure-4 stretch). Now take your right elbow and place it on the left side of your left leg. Sit up straight with your left hand supporting you -- placed right behind your back side. Now twist your back and turn your head slowly until you're looking behind you. Do this for a count of 10 and then switch sides and stretch out your back in the opposite direction.

Breathe
When you stretch, breathe normally and don't hold your breath. Keep in mind that when you exhale, your body, and all those muscles you're stretching at the time, relax further. This gives you a chance to extend the stretch just a little bit farther every time you exhale.
Again the most important time to stretch is after you run while your muscles are warm.
It is THE most important injury prevention available to runners - don't ignore it.













24















Need For Speed




After a while, you may find that you are steadily increasing your endurance. Every day you can run your route longer, or you can increase the length of that route.
Pretty soon you'll be running miles and miles at a time. You can proudly brag about your distance. But you may get frustrated that your mile time isn't getting any shorter. You just can't seem to get faster.
When I reached this point, I couldn't seem to shave time off my miles other than a few seconds.
I was great at pacing, and I could run forever, but I just couldn't seem to get any faster.
I was stuck in a 9-minute mile rut, but was fine with that since my main motivation for running was health.
I didn't care too much about how fast I went.
But then I ran my first race, and my speed suddenly started to matter. Having finished and received my final time, I suddenly wanted a better time for the next race.
I had a new goal. I had gone through distance goal after distance goal; conquering one mile, then two, three, five, eight and so on. And then, I had conquered a race goal. From there it was obvious what my goal should be; I wanted to improve my time.
But how? No matter how much I wanted to, speeding up during runs just seemed to tire me out fast, and had me walking before I finished.
Through talking to some experienced runners I learned the key to speed; walking is OK, it's called 'active recovery'.
Intervals (or repetitions) are the bread and butter of speed workouts. These are carried out by running a set distance or time at a predetermined speed numerous times with rest or active recovery period in between.

Repetitions/Intervals
These are a step up from the Diagonals discussed earlier, but longer.
They can be completed anywhere, but a track is the obvious choice as the distance is easily calculated i.e. one lap is 400 meters.
Therefore a simple workout would be 10 X 400 meters with a recovery (either walking, jogging or resting) of the same length of time it took you to do the lap.
So if it took you three minutes to run a lap, rest for three minutes and then go again.
These are not all-out sprints; you need to be able to run the last repetition (rep) at the same pace as the first.
If you've run a 5K race, do the reps at this pace. If you are wearing a heart rate monitor, try to run in the 90 percent of max region.
If you have no 5K race time, no track access and no heart rate monitor;  just find a flat, unbroken stretch of pavement and measure out approximately for hundred meters.
Use street/park furniture or lamp posts as your beginning and end points.
Run at a pace that is hard, but that you feel you can sustain for all reps.

Doing these once a week will give a huge training stimulus.
As you progress, you can reduce the amount of recovery time between reps, increase the distance and push the speed.
Intervals can also be completed by time i.e. run three minutes hard and jog three minutes easy and repeat for the desired amount.
The key to completing intervals properly is not running too hard during the easy section so you are able to run hard for the hard section, and finish all the reps fatigued but not totally wiped.
The most popular interval distances are 400 meters, 800 meters, 1000 meters or 1 kilometer repeats.
I find them a great training stimulus.

Hill Repeats
These are a great leg-strength builder.
Use the very same principle as above, except obviously you can't do them on a track.
Find a hill that is long enough to run up for three minutes and run up it at 5K pace, jog down for recovery.
For shorter hill repeats, find a steeper hill and stride up for twenty seconds, jog back down and repeat six to ten times.
Completing these will build muscle strength and power as well as boost VO2max.
It's also a great metabolism booster for that much sought-after burn and after-burn.
For anybody looking to literally run their ass off, completing hill reps at a high intensity gives as much bang for your buck time-wise as any exercise.
A short warm-up and stretch followed by several hill reps and a cool down can be completed in forty minutes, and  yields a much higher calorie-burn than a longer cardio gym session.













25















Cross Training




Cross training is an alternative aerobic exercise to running. It doesn't have to be an intense workout that you take ultra seriously.
Cross training lets your body develop further, sometimes even faster and stronger, while simultaneously letting it recover from the strain and impact that running puts on it.
So it's like taking a day off in terms of the stress and strains of running without taking a day off in terms of maintaining and increasing fitness.
Below are a couple of cross training options.

Biking
Biking uses many of the same muscle groups as running, but in a very low-impact way.
Your knees get a break while your calves, quads and hamstrings still get a good workout.
While biking tends to be much lower intensity than running, it is still a cardiovascular exercise that you can use to 'get in the zone'.
It can be on a stationary or road bike. Used in conjunction with a heart rate monitor you can achieve any desired intensity of workout.
Stationary bikes are reasonably inexpensive and very handy. I'd often set it up in the living room and watch TV with the family and do thirty minutes followed by some stretching and core work.
It means you are getting a good workout whilst not having to disappear out the door.

Swimming
Swimming is a great cross-training exercise because it is very low-impact. Your joints have time to recover. Swimming is a whole body workout and uses a lot of upper body strength, which is very useful for running.

Elliptical Training
Elliptical trainers are a great exercise option that incorporate many of the same muscles that you use in running, but in a fluid motion that takes out all the impact. Carried out at the right intensity it can also give a cardiovascular workout just as good as a run.

Rowing
Probably the best form of cross training.
This machine is wonderful for runners because of how many muscle groups it involves.
To do it correctly you need to sit in the machine with your backside directly below your body. Never lean forward in this exercise, putting undue strain on your lower back.
Holding the bar with your arms extended, first push back with your legs, focusing on using their power to get you back.
Once your legs are extended, pull your arms back to your stomach and lean back slightly. Then extend your arms again and slowly come forward rebounding your knees and remembering to keep your back straight and not lean forward.
Moving backward should take half the time that it takes to move forward.

Weight Lifting
Or strength training. There are several exercises that don't necessitate free weights or machines, but you could still consider them "weightlifting" because you're lifting the weight of your own body.
Weight lifting is an obvious cross-training choice. You need strong muscles to move your body through the miles, and your muscles need to be built up to do that.
There's no better way to do this than to lift some weights. This puts a focus on building muscle so that when you're out running, your body can benefit from the strength training while focusing on its cardiovascular health, endurance and speed.
In addition, building the strength of your muscles decreases your likelihood of being injured. Your muscles, bone, tendons and ligaments are all closely connected, and the better off your muscles are, the better the rest of those body parts can handle the stress of running.
That being said, not all weight lifting is equal. There are ways to lift weights that build strength, other ways that build endurance, and other ways that build bulk. If you build a lot of bulk, this could be counter-productive for your running or if you are looking to shed some weight.
Knowing what muscles to focus on and work out is an important part of your cross-training weight-lifting program. If you spend half your time doing bicep curls, you might have the guns to show for it, but it won't help you too much out on the road.
To focus on endurance in weight-lifting, lift lighter weights with more repetitions. To build strength, lift heavier weights with fewer repetitions. Since your muscles get a lot of endurance training on your running days. Focus on building strength, especially with the muscles key to running, on your cross-training days.
Since you're not reading this to become a weight-lifter, but a better runner, choose exercises that multi-task and hit multiple muscles at once.
This way you can have a more efficient weight training program. Many people go into a weight room and start exercises that isolate specific muscle groups. This will not give you the best benefit for your time.
You're in the weight room as a runner, not a lifter.
Don't think that because you're a runner, you don't need to work out your legs though. You're in the weight room to improve performance so you should be working on your legs to get them stronger and make it easier on those hills and sprints.
Also, don't forget the muscles that you can't see. Your back, your hamstrings and your shoulders are all easy to forget when your standing in front of that mirror in the weight room. But these muscles are essential for your running performance. They help you keep good form and propel you forward. Don't ignore them.
Don't forget to work your core. The core of your body refers your abs and lower back and are essential for performing well out on the road. They don't get engaged much through running. These muscles are essential for good posture and form.
As mentioned, good form increases your efficiency as a runner. Therefore it's a good idea to give these core muscles a little tender love and care on your cross training days.
Since core muscles tend to be somewhat weak without training, these parts of your body are particularly prone to injury. Core training should be more than simple crunches or sit ups since there are numerous muscle groups that make up this key part of your body.
One word of warning that must be stated here is proper execution of lifting. Poor execution of these routines can cause injury. Best practise is to go to a local gym and tell trained experts what you require.
They will show you the proper way to do them.
Keeping all of that in mind, here is a brief description of  some popular weight-lifting activities to do on your cross-training day.

Supermans
Lay flat on your stomach with your arms stretched out above your head. Raise your chest, arms, and legs all at once to about five inches off the ground. Your entire weight is on your belly at this time. Hold this pose for a count of 20, then let your arms, chest and legs back down. Repeat several times.






Bridge
Lay on your back with your knees bent and your feet flat on the floor. Lift your butt and back up into the air as high as you can. Your weight should now be resting on your feet and your shoulder. You can keep your arms on the ground or raise them slightly to make this exercise more challenging.





Squats
Squats work out your quadriceps -- one of the main muscles you need to be strong for your runs.To do a squat, keep your feet shoulder width apart. Bend your knees and lower your butt down while keeping your back straight, you'll be leaning slightly forward. When your knees are at a 90 degree angle, stand back up slowly.
You can add weights to this exercise by holding dumbbells in your hands or a barbell on your shoulders.






Lunges
Lunges are a great exercise that can be done with or without weights. If you don't have weights, start by standing. Then take one long step with your right leg, bending the left leg until your left knee almost touches the ground and your right leg is at a right angle. Then step back and do the same with the left leg taking a step forward. Be sure to keep your arms dangling at your sides and don't use your arms to push off your leg when you stand up. You are concentrating the workout on your legs, and they don't need any help. Also remember to keep your back straight.






Alternatively, this exercise could be done by moving forward and taking a step with each lung. When you have gone down for your first lunge, instead of stepping back to your starting position, stand up straight on your right leg and then step forward with your left leg for your second lunge. To do this, you'll need a decent amount of space.
The exercise with weights is exactly the same, but just hold two evenly weighted barbells in your two hands. Keep your arms straight and let the weights just hang at your side as you do your lunges.

Push ups
Probably the best known exercise for strength and punishment. We've all seen the mean drill instructor in the movies issuing the command: 'Drop and gimme fifty'.
They are hard, but they work. Start slowly with a low number of repetitions and build up over time. The traditional push up is the flat nose to the floor, hands aligned with the chest shoulder width apart. Pushing up to straight arms hinging from the toes. If these are too difficult to start, place the knees on the ground and hinge from them instead.






Dips
For this exercise you will need a chair or bench. Sit on the edge of the chair with your legs straight, resting on the ground in front of you. Place both hand on the edge of the bench, gripping your fingers around the front of the edge. Ease yourself off the bench so that your weight is resting on your hands and your feet. Bend your arms, lowering your butt downward, and then lift up. That is one repetition. Do this 8-10 times.






Pull ups
Most gyms will have pull up bars which are stand alone or incorporated into weight machines. A very good alternative is to get a bar that can be incorporated into a door frame at home. Pull ups are a great exercise because they incorporate so many upper body muscles. The premise is simple and there is no right or wrong way to do them- grab the bar, pull yourself up until your chin reached the bar, lower yourself back down and repeat.......if you can.






Flys
There are a couple of different kinds of flys you can and should do to work your arms and back muscles.
Standing up straight and holding dumbbells in your two hands at your sides, lift your arms up at your sides, keeping them straight, until they are parallel with the ground. Let them down slowly. That is one repetition.
The second variation is almost the same as the first, but instead of pulling your arms up to the side, pull them up straight in front of you until they are parallel with the ground. Then let them down again slowly.






Back Extensions

Using an exercise ball or an incline bench, lay on your stomach and curl your body downward. Then lift your body up, in a sort of backwards sit up until your back is straight. Be sure not to extend too far. Lift up only until your back is straight.
This exercise can be combined with flys, for extra bang for your buck.







A combination of the above is a very beneficial way to spend your cross-training day.
Think about your goals in running, why you're running in the first place, and what seems most fun to you, and choose a cross-training exercise according to that.
This list of stationary exercises is by no means exhaustive. When choosing which weight lifting exercises to incorporate on your cross training day, keep these tips in mind:

- Build strength in muscles you need for strength and speed
- Work out muscles that receive little attention in running
- Pick exercises that incorporate several muscle groups
- Pick exercises that incorporate whole body movement

Plyometrics
This is a fancy word for specific jumping exercises that boost your muscle strength and power. They help you by improving the suppleness and elasticity of your leg.
When you run, your feet and legs need to act like springs, of sorts, whenever they hit the ground. The better prepared your legs are for this spring-like action, the better runner you'll be.
These exercises could be incorporated into your workout on a running day. Or you could make a special day of doing plyometric workouts. What's nice about plyometrics is that you can do a full plyometric workout in very little time. A 10-minute workout will be hugely beneficial and therefore make for a great cross-training day stand alone workout.
It's a bit of  a stretch to say that plyometrics is cross-training since it incorporates many of the muscles and actions that are used in running, in other words you're not really giving your body much of a day off from the intensity of running. Yet I think they should be included as a strength or cross training because they are a very good way to work out your muscle in a more intentional way. They also offer an alternative to just running for every workout, the little bit of variety helping to mix things up a bit.
Before doing any drills, it is essential to do a short warm up run, so that you aren't doing these exercises on 'cold' muscles. It's also a good idea to jog/run in between each exercise so that you can stretch out your legs and let your muscles incorporate what they just learned into your normal running stride.
In the drills below, I say to run a 50 meter distance. Of course this could be more or less, but it's a good idea to have a set distance for your plyometrics. On a football field or track, this would be easy. On the road, you can try running up and down a cul de sac or running between two telephone poles or lamp posts.

Knees High
Run for 50 meters aiming to get your knees as high as possible with each stride. The goal is to get your knees as high as possible. So don't race to the end of the 50 meters. Focus on height.

Heels kicks
Run for 50 meters kicking your heels up towards your back side with each step. Just as in knees high, your goal is not to finish quickly. Focus on the kicking motion with each step.

Skipping
Skipping is simple enough and a great way to work on the muscles that you use in everyday running. Skipping exaggerates the normal running form, thus working out the muscles you use in running further.
After skipping for 50 meters, try skipping again, but this time focus on height. Skip as high as possible, and don't think about distance.
When skipping, be sure to pump your opposite arm with each leg that comes up, just as you would with running. It's also good fun and reminds you of being a kid!

Lateral Running
Running sideways helps you focus on your hip muscles that are important, but under trained in everyday running. For the first lateral running drill, stride out to the side with your right foot and then bring your left foot to meet it before you stride out again. Do this for 25 meters, and then switch sides for the last 25 meters.
A more complicated form of lateral running that gives your hips even more of a workout is commonly known as the "karaoke" or "grapevine" drill. To do this drill, start running sideways with your right foot first, then cross your left foot in front of your right foot as you continue to run sideways. With your next step out, stride out with the right and bring the left foot behind your right foot. Continue running this way for 25 meters and then switch sides so you can lead out with your left foot.

Squat Jumps
It's exactly what it sounds like: With your feet about shoulder width apart, bend your knees into a squat, getting to a point where your legs are at a 90 degree angle Keep your back straight and bring your arms out in front of you as you go down. As you stand up out of the squat, jump as high as you can. Land with your legs spread and bend your knees going into another squat.

Jump on One Foot
For 25 meters jump on the right foot, focusing on height. Switch to the left foot to finish out the 50 meters.
Do the drill again, but this time focus on distance instead of height.













26















A Way of Life




So now you've well and truly gotten into the groove.
Every day you feel more and more like a 'real' runner, and you're improving by leaps and bounds.
This is the most exciting time.
You can see and feel your daily improvement because that improvement is noticeable not just to you, but to everyone around you too.
Your friends comment on the weight you've lost. Your doctor is pleasantly surprised next time he takes your blood pressure.
Even your family say you look healthier and seem more energetic.
But perhaps you're not finding it easy. For some it will be a struggle for motivation to keep things going.
If this is the case just take things one day at a time - it can take longer for some to acquire a love for exercise.
With the right approach I assure you it will come.
Maybe you just need to tweak your approach.
As it is with all things in life, there is a learning curve. Once you get past the initial hurdle of a little stiffness as you body gets accustomed to the extra demands you're making of it, you'll start to get in a groove.
You get to this glorious stage of growing by leaps and bounds. This time of growth is when its most important to establish good running habits. It might be tempting to throw schedules, goals and consistency to the wind since you genuinely want to run.
Take hold of that exuberance before you lose it.
You're in that part of the learning curve where improvement comes easily and quickly, so enjoy the ride.
Soon you'll reach the point where you've reached that weight goal, that time goal, or you ran that race and the question comes: why keep running?
Well, you know the answer to that because it is the same answer as to why you started running in the first place.
But having accomplished so much, and seeing a long plateau in front of, you might be inclined to slip back into old habits.
This is where you either need to find new goals, or you need to find joy in the everyday run.
It may be difficult to find new goals that are as satisfying as the leaps and bounds that you've accomplished in the first few months of your running, but finding the joy in accomplishing littler goals will drive you to further improve yourself and continue your running pursuits.
However, I think it is just as good to find a way to simply enjoy the everyday run.
Depending on your reason for running in the first place, consistency may be more important than further self-improvement.

Fighting Boredom
Don't be too attached to your terrain, especially if its a treadmill.
If you find yourself getting bored of pushing the miles on a treadmill, get outside next time - it's amazing what a change of scenery can do.
Here are some other ideas to help you change the route-rut:


- Find a park or running trail in your area that has pre-measured routes.
- Run based on time instead of distance ... in a new direction.
- Drive to your favourite part of town and run there.
- Run on the beach or other scenic spot.
- Loose yourself. Don't be afraid to get lost and find a new way around.
- Pick a race in a destination you've always wanted to visit and train towards it.



Change your Company
If your boredom comes from running alone, here's a few ideas:
- Look into any running groups or clubs that meet in your area and run together regularly. Do they fit your running style, pace, schedule, etc.? If so, join in.
- Invite friends to join you on your runs. Remember, when you started, you weren't a "runner" either. It may surprise you who's willing to give running a shot if you just offer an invitation. Seeing other people following our footsteps in a positive way can be very fulfilling.
- Get a family member to run with you. This could be a spouse, sibling, or even a child. Though while running with younger members of your family run at their pace, stop and look at interesting nature if they want - chase a butterfly even. It's quality time and you will be giving them a valuable gift by teaching them the joy of running. There is no better motivation than the knowledge that you are the inspiration for someone else.

Change your Tune
If you're a music lover, make your running time your music time. Invest in an MP3 player upon which you can make a customisable playlist for your runs.
Running instantly becomes "me" time with a great soundtrack.
Similarly, if you're not so interested in music, there are a multitude of podcasts or audio books so you can "read" while you run.

Set New Goals
Once you've run for several months, you may have plateaued to a certain extent. Personally I believe that with consistency we can keep improving for years. It's the rate of improvement that varies.
If you run relatively the same distance at relatively the same speed, reduced improvement is normal. You may be able to go farther and push on to greater distance goals, but other life commitments might limit your running time so that that this is not possible.
In that case, it could seem like improvement just isn't happening anymore.
On a macro-scale, that may be true, but there is plenty of room for smaller goals that will keep you motivated day in and day out. Here are some ideas:
Take one day a week to do some speed training  Time your intervals and push yourself to be faster.
Find a hill in your area, incorporate it into your run, and try to run it faster each time.
Once a month, time yourself running one mile as fast as you can. Watch the time decrease month by month.
Set stretching goals for your post-run stretching routine. Can you touch your toes? Can you grab your feet? Push yourself further.
Start timing each run and keep a record so you push yourself more.

Taking a Break
Don't feel bad if you decide for personal reasons or health reasons to take a break from your running routine or your planned running goal.
It is better to take a break than to continue on to perhaps an injury. Better to take a break than to be so busy that you can't enjoy your runs.
But don't think of your break as the end, just a temporary hiatus until you get over that injury or have enough time to run again.

Putting it All Together
A great beauty of running is that it is a sport that is endlessly customisable. You can make it your own. Here's what you should be thinking about as you continue your running habit/hobby:
Know why you want to run and create goals accordingly.
Get good gear equipment that makes running fun for you.
Run like a runner. Good form, good stretching and good cross-training (a little bit goes a long way).
Listen to your body. Don't go too hard too fast, but learn how to push yourself. Know what the pain is trying to communicate to you.
There are races for every kind of runner. Find one that's right for you.

To make running part of your life, no matter how hard it seems at first, especially for those who have not participated in sports for a long time if ever, it will get easier with every step.
Running can make all of life's challenges easier to face, if you can reach inside yourself to step out the door on a dark, cold, wet night, find yourself two miles from home and feeling you can't run another step but toughen it out, the rewards are boundless.
You'll be stronger, not just physically but mentally, you'll have a slimmer body, more confidence and more energy. Running is a legal, healthy drug with only positive side effect.
So take control and... keep running your ass off.













27















Marathon Club




Thank you for reading this far.
Perhaps (hopefully) by now you're thinking: 'I'm so loving this and I want to keep it going; maybe run a marathon next'.
Could be it was already on the bucket list - a box that you have always had in your head to tick.
In any case, I very much hope that the contents of this book have been of some encouragement and that you're now enjoying running your ass off.
A word of warning though; what follows next may be less than encouraging - my own (unedited!) thoughts on running a marathon.

Marathon Club - The Rules
I consider myself lucky. I've never been a POW, never been tortured or interrogated by enemy forces. To me, water-boarding sounds like something fun invented by Australians to do on holiday, rather than the in-vogue torture technique that it is today.
And yet I am a paid up member of a sadomasochistic club that practices self harm.
I've had toe nails ripped off, the tips of my nipples burnt away by friction (and my own salty sweat seep into the wounds intensifying the pain), I repetitively pound my legs against unyielding concrete till they develop stress fractures, which ache so badly I can only walk sideways downstairs. And all of this by choice.
Welcome to the world of marathon running.
Of course runners don't do it to feel pain, most of us do it for myriad reasons - to get fit, lose weight, or to challenge themselves.
A select few even have designs on winning. For me personally, all the pain and suffering is overlooked for the feeling of well-being and accomplishment that completing a marathon brings.
The race itself was actually born out of warfare and suffering. The legend of Pheidippides, a Greek Messenger who was sent from the battlefields of Marathon to Athens to announce the defeat of the Persians. If legend is to be believed Pheidippides ran every step, whereupon he entered the Assembly, pronounced his message and promptly dropped dead.
So if the first rule of Marathon Club is you must talk about Marathon Club (first-time marathon runners can talk of little else), the second rule is a favourite of our very own Irish philosopher, Roy Keane: fail to prepare, prepare to fail.
A marathon race is a distance of twenty six miles/three hundred and eighty five yards/42.195 kilometers/ 50,000+ steps.  That's for the average person, but for those who prepare and train seriously, the race itself is merely the home straight after months of unbelievable torture especially for those new to the sport.
Most novice training plans contain between 400-600 miles approx over a few months preceding the race − close to 1 million steps.  That's a hell of a lot of scope for suffering for those who − like me and Pheidippides − had no running base when we started out. Apparently, training for and subsequently running a marathon puts the body under a similar amount of stress as a pregnancy (I assume this includes labour). If this is true, I'm planning to give birth to marathon number fifteen this year. I hope to call her sub 3:05.
Following the decision to take up running, my first bout of torture was caused by ill-fitting running shoes. I remember the joy of running 10k for the first time being short-lived when I removed my trainers to be greeted by multiple angry blisters that made my feet look like I'd contracted leprosy.
The third rule of Marathon Club: have a 'gait analysis' done in order to get proper fitting shoes.
Another nasty marathon-training torture technique caused by ill-fitting footwear is toenails turning black and falling off. When it first happened to me I wasn't too bothered − in fact I considered it quite the rite of passage.  But if you are female and have a preference for open-toe sandals it may be just a little bit off-putting.
Next, there is the inevitable onset of chafing. Seeing a marathon runner in the latter stages of a race with two streaks of blood streaming down the front of his T-shirt is enough to make even the hardest man cringe and clutch his own breasts in sympathy and revulsion. And that's just the chafing you can see - inevitably, there are other bits of a more private nature that can cause as much if not more agony.
The fourth rule of marathon club: Lubricate.
Then there's the weather. Preparing for a spring marathon means training during cold dark winter nights when snow and icy footpaths can prevent progression. Directly leading to mental torture on runner from inability to train.
An autumn marathon means training over the summer, whereupon one gets sunburnt one minute and soaked the next (cue more chafing -see fourth rule).
What often best defines a marathoner's relationship with the torture of running is getting out there and pounding the pavement in adverse weather. Running in a force seven gale while being pelted by hailstones shows a certain determination, (some would say madness) but only those that have done this will know the satisfaction of a long hot shower after ten miles in a North Atlantic storm.
And yet this suffering is not all physical. Forcing one's self off the couch on a dark stormy night, rain and hail lashing against the window, all the while fatigued after a hard days work is not easy. It goes against basic human nature for most, yet if you don't do it you'll be left with a feeling of letting yourself down for missing an important session of your training plan. It takes a strong mind to choose 10 miles in a storm over a glass of vino, a takeaway and an open fire, but somehow it's always worth it.
Of all those steps of marathon training, the hardest are often the first ones out your own front door. Luckily I don't lack the inspiration to get out that door no matter how bad the weather. Life is full of tests, from work life to home life to paying bills, running away is quite a natural reaction. And the head space and time to think in more often than not the perfect tonic.
Why run at all? A question I was asked many times when I did my first marathon.
The answer will be different for everyone. For some it's a lifelong goal, for others a chance to raise money for charities close to their heart, and for others it's a challenge, their own personal Everest. I have even heard it said it's a cure for mid-life crisis, mostly for men it seems. When you get to a certain point in life, you realise that with health and fitness you can no longer take things for granted.
Many team sports are the often for the young, but running truly is for all, something that is not beyond anyone. You can improve times, endurance, and cardio, all the while staying fit and healthy. Those downsides I mentioned, bleeding nipples, chafing etc, can all be avoided once you learn from initial mistakes, so at the end of the day it's not the pain that's addictive; it's the achievement of crossing that line.
So if people do it once for a challenge, overcome all these pitfalls and agonising afflictions, why do it again?
It's not an easy question to answer, and of course I can't speak for my fellow Marathon Club members, but perhaps the pregnancy analogy isn't too far from the truth.
Not long after I finished my first injury-plagued, torturous race, my nipples were barely healed, when I had the broody urge to go through it all again.
I hope you will too.
Fifth Rule of Marathon Club: Just run your ass off.















JARGON GUIDE




A handy glossary for some common running terms that beginners will be throwing around like seasoned pros in no-time.
All of these will be covered in different parts of the book, but here's an easy all-in-one place reference.

JARGON
5K  =  3.1 mile race
10K = 6.2 mile race

Adaptation: The ability of the body to 'absorb' training stimulus and increase fitness.

Aerobic: An activity that is performed while the muscles are being appropriately oxygenated. This is best for distance running.

Anaerobic: An activity that is performed while the muscles are not being oxygenated. During anaerobic exercise, the heart rate is much higher and the muscles are building strength as opposed to endurance. This is best for speed running, like that last sprint to the finish line.

Base Training: Or aerobic base training is the building of a foundation of aerobic fitness at low intensity by accumulating easy running milage.

Cool-down: A short and relatively slow run or walk done after a workout. This is used to ease the heart rate down (your heart might start to hurt if you just stop suddenly after sprinting to your finish). This also keeps the muscles moving and limber for stretching.

Cramp:  a muscle contracting against your will.

Cross-training: exercises, other than running, used to complement your running regimen

Carbohydrate: A basic food group that includes starches, sugars and fibre. Carbs fuel the muscles and so are important to runners.

DOMS: Or delayed-onset muscle soreness. This is pain and stiffness of the muscles felt a number of hours after exercise.

Dynamic Stretching:  Stretching through movement through an extended range of motion.

Electrolytes: Essential salts and sugars. Your body uses up a great deal of these during a run by sweating and burning calories.

Endorphins: acids your body releases that work similar to opiates - often referred to as 'Runners High.

Endurance Training: Specific training of the aerobic system at the lower end of the intensity scale to increase endurance.

Fartlek: Meaning 'Speed Play' in Swedish. This refers to a run where the speed and intensity is fluctuating between high and low for designated periods .

Fast Twitch Muscle Fibers: One of two types of muscle fiber, the other being slow twitch.
Fast twitch fibers are responsible for the more powerful bursts of movement like sprinting.

Foam Rolling: A form of self massage used to keep the major muscles supple. A foam or plastic 'roller' is used to preform to target the muscles.

Gels: Small, easy to consume packs of concentrated carbs/sugar to assist in long endurance runs/races.

Glycogen: A form of glucose that is stored in the muscles and liver and is the primary source of energy for running.

GPS watch: A watch that can be tracked by satellite to calculate pace, distance, time and location.

Half-marathon: 13.1 mile/ 21K race

Heart-rate: how many times your heart beats in one minute.

Hill Training: The use of elevation and intervals to increase strength and endurance.

Interval: a time for a set distance, a section of a longer run. For example, if you run three miles, you could time your first, second and third mile. Each would be considered an interval. If you run one mile around a track, you could time each of the laps around the track. This shows you how consistently you run, and if you progressively speed up or slow down.

Lactic acid: an acid that builds up in the muscles and causes soreness.

LSR: "Long, Slow, Run." A certain kind of training run focusing on endurance as opposed to speed.

Masters: Runners who are over 40 years old.

Marathon: 26.2 mile race.

Maximum Heart Rate: the highest your heart rate can go safely. This is different for every person.

Motion control: A term describing a kind of shoe that helps your feet run in correct form.

Overpronate: When your feet turn inward too much when you run.

Pace: This generally refers to how fast you run one mile. However, this does not refer to your fastest mile but is more of a measure of average speed.

Potassium: An element that helps alleviate and prevent soreness. Bananas are a good example of a food that contain potassium.

Plyometrics: Exercises that incorporate many types of jumping used to better the body at being an efficient runner

PR or PB: Personal record or personal best. This refers the fastest time you have run a certain distance.

Progression Run: Where each mile or km is faster than the last.

Pronate: The motion your foot naturally makes when running, turning in slightly.

Recovery Run: An easy paced run usually carried out either side of faster, more intense running days to allow the body to recover and adapt.

Resting Heart Rate: Your heart rate when you are completely at rest. This is different for every person.

Runner's high: A feeling of elation you get when you're running very hard and your body releases endorphins.

Side stitch: A cramp in the stomach or diaphragm

Slow Twitch Muscle Fibers: The opposite to fast twitch above.

Stride: The distance you cover in one step while running. When used as the term 'Strides' or 'Stride Outs' it refers to multiple surges at high pace for a set short distance of time, usually 100 meters or 20 seconds. This improves leg turnover rate,  Vo2Max and running form.

Tapering: A gradual decrease in training volume in the lead up to a race, to aid recovery and increase freshness for race day.

Tempo Run: A harder-paced run that teaches the body to run faster for longer.

Under pronate (supinate): When your foot does not turn inward enough.

Vo2Max: A measure of the maximum volume of oxygen that an athlete can use.

Warm-up: A short and slow run preceding a workout or race carried out to warm the muscles. This usually precedes stretching.

Zone: The term used for your target heart rate -- where you want your heart rate to be during most of your training run.















About the Author




Kevin Hill lives in Ireland with his wife and daughter.
A reformed couch potato, he has now run multiple marathons, ultra-races and thousands of miles.
In short - he's run his ass off.
When he's not running or thinking about running, he co-writes USA Today bestselling crime fiction about a kick-ass forensic investigator (who also happens to be a runner) under the pseudonym Casey Hill.
If you're a mystery reader and would like to read Kevin's fiction, check out the CSI Reilly Steel Series here.



littlebluebks@gmail.com


















