

















Teach Yourself VISUALLY™ iPhone® 8, iPhone® 8 Plus, and iPhone® X
Published byJohn Wiley & Sons, Inc.10475 Crosspoint BoulevardIndianapolis, IN 46256
www.wiley.com
Published simultaneously in Canada
Copyright © 2018 by John Wiley & Sons, Inc., Indianapolis, Indiana
No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, scanning or otherwise, except as permitted under Sections 107 or 108 of the 1976 United States Copyright Act, without either the prior written permission of the Publisher, or authorization through payment of the appropriate per-copy fee to the Copyright Clearance Center, 222 Rosewood Drive, Danvers, MA 01923, (978) 750-8400, fax (978) 646-8600. Requests to the Publisher for permission should be addressed to the Permissions Department, John Wiley & Sons, Inc., 111 River Street, Hoboken, NJ 07030, 201-748-6011, fax 201-748-6008, or online at www.wiley.com/go/permissions.
Wiley publishes in a variety of print and electronic formats and by print-on-demand. Some material included with standard print versions of this book may not be included in e-books or in print-on-demand. If this book refers to media such as a CD or DVD that is not included in the version you purchased, you may download this material at http://booksupport.wiley.com. For more information about Wiley products, visit www.wiley.com.
Library of Congress Control Number: 2017953998
ISBN: 978-1-119-43961-5


Trademark Acknowledgments
Wiley, the Wiley logo, Visual, the Visual logo, Teach Yourself VISUALLY, Read Less - Learn More and related trade dress are trademarks or registered trademarks of John Wiley & Sons, Inc. and/or its affiliates. iPhone is a registered trademark of Apple, Inc. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. John Wiley & Sons, Inc. is not associated with any product or vendor mentioned in this book. Teach Yourself VISUALLY™ iPhone® 8, iPhone® 8 Plus, and iPhone® X is an independent publication and has not been authorized, sponsored, or otherwise approved by Apple, Inc.
LIMIT OF LIABILITY/DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY: THE PUBLISHER AND THE AUTHOR MAKE NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES WITH RESPECT TO THE ACCURACY OR COMPLETENESS OF THE CONTENTS OF THIS WORK AND SPECIFICALLY DISCLAIM ALL WARRANTIES, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION WARRANTIES OF FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. NO WARRANTY MAY BE CREATED OR EXTENDED BY SALES OR PROMOTIONAL MATERIALS. THE ADVICE AND STRATEGIES CONTAINED HEREIN MAY NOT BE SUITABLE FOR EVERY SITUATION. THIS WORK IS SOLD WITH THE UNDERSTANDING THAT THE PUBLISHER IS NOT ENGAGED IN RENDERING LEGAL, ACCOUNTING, OR OTHER PROFESSIONAL SERVICES. IF PROFESSIONAL ASSISTANCE IS REQUIRED, THE SERVICES OF A COMPETENT PROFESSIONAL PERSON SHOULD BE SOUGHT. NEITHER THE PUBLISHER NOR THE AUTHOR SHALL BE LIABLE FOR DAMAGES ARISING HEREFROM. THE FACT THAT AN ORGANIZATION OR WEBSITE IS REFERRED TO IN THIS WORK AS A CITATION AND/OR A POTENTIAL SOURCE OF FURTHER INFORMATION DOES NOT MEAN THAT THE AUTHOR OR THE PUBLISHER ENDORSES THE INFORMATION THE ORGANIZATION OR WEBSITE MAY PROVIDE OR RECOMMENDATIONS IT MAY MAKE. FURTHER, READERS SHOULD BE AWARE THAT INTERNET WEBSITES LISTED IN THIS WORK MAY HAVE CHANGED OR DISAPPEARED BETWEEN WHEN THIS WORK WAS WRITTEN AND WHEN IT IS READ.
FOR PURPOSES OF ILLUSTRATING THE CONCEPTS AND TECHNIQUES DESCRIBED IN THIS BOOK, THE AUTHOR HAS CREATED VARIOUS NAMES, COMPANY NAMES, MAILING, E-MAIL AND INTERNET ADDRESSES, PHONE AND FAX NUMBERS AND SIMILAR INFORMATION, ALL OF WHICH ARE FICTITIOUS. ANY RESEMBLANCE OF THESE FICTITIOUS NAMES, ADDRESSES, PHONE AND FAX NUMBERS AND SIMILAR INFORMATION TO ANY ACTUAL PERSON, COMPANY AND/OR ORGANIZATION IS UNINTENTIONAL AND PURELY COINCIDENTAL.


Contact Us
For general information on our other products and services please contact our Customer Care Department within the U.S. at 877-762-2974, outside the U.S. at 317-572-3993 or fax 317-572-4002.
For technical support please visit https://hub.wiley.com/community/support.
 
Sales | Contact Wiley at (877) 762-2974 or fax (317) 572-4002.



Credits
Acquisitions EditorsRiley HardingJody Lefevere
Project EditorLynn Northrup
Technical EditorGalen Gruman
Copy EditorLynn Northrup
Production EditorAthiyappan Lalith Kumar
Manager, Content Development & AssemblyMary Beth Wakefield
Vice President, Professional Technology StrategyBarry Pruett




About the Author
Guy Hart-Davis is the author of Teach Yourself VISUALLY iPad, 4th Edition; Teach Yourself VISUALLY iPhone 7; Teach Yourself VISUALLY Android Phones and Tablets, 2nd Edition; Teach Yourself VISUALLY MacBook Pro, 2nd Edition; Teach Yourself VISUALLY MacBook Air; iMac Portable Genius, 4th Edition; and iWork Portable Genius, 2nd Edition.




Author's Acknowledgments
My thanks go to the many people who turned my manuscript into the highly graphical book you are holding. In particular, I thank Riley Harding and Jody Lefevere for asking me to write the book; Lynn Northrup for keeping me on track and skillfully editing the text; Galen Gruman for reviewing the book for technical accuracy and contributing helpful suggestions; and SPi Global for laying out the book.



How to Use This Book

Who This Book Is For
This book is for the reader who has never used this particular technology or software application. It is also for readers who want to expand their knowledge.


The Conventions in This Book
 Steps
This book uses a step-by-step format to guide you easily through each task. Numbered steps are actions you must do; bulleted steps clarify a point, step, or optional feature; and indented steps give you the result.
 Notes
Notes give additional information — special conditions that may occur during an operation, a situation that you want to avoid, or a cross reference to a related area of the book.
 Icons and Buttons
Icons and buttons show you exactly what you need to click to perform a step.
 Tips
Tips offer additional information, including warnings and shortcuts.
 Bold
Bold type shows command names, options, and text or numbers you must type.
 Italics
Italic type introduces and defines a new term.












Teach Yourself VISUALLY™ iPhone® 8, iPhone® 8 Plus, and iPhone® X


Table of Contents

Cover
Chapter 1: Getting Started with Your iPhone

Identify and Compare the iPhone Models
Meet Your iPhone's Hardware Controls
Download, Install, and Set Up iTunes
Begin Setup and Activate Your iPhone
Set Up Your iPhone as New Using iCloud
Set Up Your iPhone from an iCloud Backup
Set Up Your iPhone from iTunes
Choose Which Items to Sync from Your Computer
Sync Your iPhone with iTunes via Wi-Fi
Explore the Interface and Launch Apps
Using Cover Sheet and Today View
Using Control Center
Using 3D Touch


Chapter 2: Personalizing Your iPhone

Find the Settings You Need
Choose Which iCloud Items to Sync
Choose Which Apps Can Give Notifications
Choose Sounds and Haptics Settings
Set Display Brightness and Wallpapers
Configure Night Shift and Display Zoom
Choose Privacy and Location Settings
Configure and Use Search
Choose Locking and Control Center Settings
Set Up and Use Do Not Disturb Mode
Customize Today View
Secure Your iPhone with Touch ID or Face ID
Configure Restrictions and Parental Controls
Set Up Family Sharing and Add Members
Choose Date, Time, and International Settings


Chapter 3: Using Voice, Accessibility, and Continuity

Give Commands with Siri
Dictate Text Using Siri
Gather and Share Information with Siri
Configure Siri to Work Your Way
Set Up VoiceOver to Identify Items On-Screen
Configure Other Accessibility Features
Using Your iPhone with Your Mac
Using Your iPhone with Your Apple Watch


Chapter 4: Setting Up Communications

Set Up Your Mail Accounts
Control How Your E-Mail Appears
Organize Your E-Mail Messages by Threads
Set Your Default E-Mail Account
Control How Your Contacts Appear
Browse or Search for Contacts
Create a New Contact
Import Contacts from a SIM Card
Choose Default Alert Options for Calendar Events
Choose Your Default Calendar and Time Zone
Set Up and Use Wallet and Apple Pay


Chapter 5: Making Calls and Messaging

Make Phone Calls and FaceTime Audio Calls
Using a Wireless Headset or Car System
Mute a Call or Put a Call on Hold
Make a Conference Call
Make Video Calls Using FaceTime
Save Time with Call Favorites and Recents
Send Text and Multimedia Messages
Using Emoji and iMessage Features
Manage Your Instant Messages
Choose Settings for Messages
Block and Unblock Senders
Set Up and Use the Emergency SOS Feature


Chapter 6: Networking and Social Networking

Using Airplane Mode
Monitor Your Cellular Network Usage
Control Cellular Data and Background Refresh
Connect Your iPhone to a Different Carrier
Turn Data Roaming On or Off
Connect Bluetooth Devices to Your iPhone
Share Items via AirDrop
Share Internet Access via Personal Hotspot
Connect to Wi-Fi Networks and Hotspots
Set Up and Enjoy Social Networking


Chapter 7: Working with Apps

Customize the Home Screen
Organize Apps with Folders
Switch Quickly from One App to Another
Find Apps on the App Store
Update and Remove Apps
Cut, Copy, and Paste Text
Format and Replace Text


Chapter 8: Browsing the Web and E-Mailing

Browse the Web with Safari
Access Websites Quickly with Bookmarks
Create Bookmarks
Keep a Reading List of Web Pages
Navigate Among Open Web Pages Using Tabs
Tighten Up Safari's Security
Manage Your App and Website Passwords
Read E-Mail
Reply To or Forward an E-Mail Message
Organize Your Messages in Mailbox Folders
Write and Send E-Mail Messages


Chapter 9: Keeping Your Life Organized

Browse Existing Events in Your Calendars
Create New Events in Your Calendars
Work with Calendar Invitations
Track Your Commitments with Reminders
Keep Essential Documents at Hand with Wallet
Get Your Bearings with Compass
Find Your Location with Maps
Find Directions with Maps
Explore with 3D Flyover
Using Maps' Favorites and Contacts
Take Notes
Using Stocks, Weather, and Clock
Using the Health App
Manage Files with the Files App


Chapter 10: Enjoying Music, Videos, and Books

Navigate the Music App and Set Preferences
Play Music Using the Music App
Play Videos Using the TV App
Play Music and Videos Using AirPlay
Create a Music Playlist
Listen to Apple Music Radio
Read Digital Books with iBooks


Chapter 11: Working with Photos and Video

Take Photos with the Camera App
Take Live, Timed, Portrait, and Panorama Photos
Apply Filters to Your Photos
Edit Your Photos
Capture Video
Browse Photos Using Years, Collections, and Moments
Browse Photos Using Memories
Browse Photos Using the Map
Browse Photos Using iCloud Photo Sharing
Browse Photos Using Albums
Share Photos Using My Photo Stream
Share Photo Streams with Other People
Share and Use Your Photos and Videos
Play Slide Shows of Photos


Chapter 12: Advanced Features and Troubleshooting

Connect to a Network via VPN
Connect Your iPhone to Exchange Server
Update Your iPhone's Software
Extend Your iPhone's Runtime on the Battery
Back Up and Restore Using Your Computer
Back Up and Restore Using iCloud
Reset Your iPhone's Settings
Troubleshoot Wi-Fi Connections
Locate Your iPhone with Find My iPhone
Manage Your Apple ID


End User License Agreement





Guide

Cover
Table of Contents
Begin Reading



Pages

ii
iii
iv
v
vi
vii
viii
ix
x
xi
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
72
73
74
75
76
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
86
87
88
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
98
99
100
101
102
103
104
105
106
107
108
109
110
111
112
113
114
115
116
117
118
119
120
121
122
123
124
125
126
127
128
129
130
131
132
133
134
135
136
137
138
139
140
141
142
143
144
145
146
147
148
149
150
151
152
153
154
155
156
157
158
159
160
161
162
163
164
165
166
167
168
169
170
171
172
173
174
175
176
177
178
179
180
181
182
183
184
185
186
187
188
189
190
191
192
193
194
195
196
197
198
199
200
201
202
203
204
205
206
207
208
209
210
211
212
213
214
215
216
217
218
219
220
221
222
223
224
225
226
227
228
229
230
231
232
233
234
235
236
237
238
239
240
241
242
243
244
245
246
247
248
249
250
251
252
253
254
255
256
257
258
259
260
261
262
263
264
265
266
267
268
269
270
271
272
273
274
275
276
277
278
279
280
281
282
283
284
285
286
287
288
289
290
291
292
293
294
295
296
297









Chapter 1
Getting Started with Your iPhone


In this chapter, you set up your iPhone to work with your computer or iCloud. You choose items to sync and learn to use the iPhone interface. 
Identify and Compare the iPhone Models
Meet Your iPhone's Hardware Controls
Download, Install, and Set Up iTunes
Begin Setup and Activate Your iPhone
Set Up Your iPhone as New Using iCloud
Set Up Your iPhone from an iCloud Backup
Set Up Your iPhone from iTunes
Choose Which Items to Sync from Your Computer
Sync Your iPhone with iTunes via Wi-Fi
Explore the Interface and Launch Apps
Using Cover Sheet and Today View
Using Control Center
Using 3D Touch


Identify and Compare the iPhone Models
The iPhone is a series of hugely popular smartphones designed by Apple. As of this writing, Apple sells six iPhone models that differ in size, power, and price. This section explains the six models, their common features, and their differences to enable you to distinguish them and choose among them.
 
Understanding the Six iPhone Models

As of this writing, Apple sells six iPhone models:
• iPhone X, introduced in 2017. The iPhone X has the largest screen of the iPhone models and very thin bezels around the screen. The front camera, flash, and microphone are inset in the middle of the top edge of the screen. In the name, X is pronounced as "ten" rather than the letter.
• iPhone 8 and iPhone 8 Plus, also introduced in 2017. The iPhone 8 Plus is physically larger than the iPhone 8.
• iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus, introduced in 2016. As with the iPhone 8 models, the iPhone 7 Plus is physically larger than the iPhone 7.
• iPhone SE, introduced in 2016. The iPhone SE is the most compact iPhone.
All of the iPhone models except the iPhone X have the Home button, a physical button for navigation, below the screen. The iPhone X uses gestures instead of the Home button.

 
Understanding the Common Features of the iPhone Models

Each iPhone comes with the Apple EarPods headset, which incorporates a remote control and a microphone. For all current iPhone models except the iPhone SE, the Apple EarPods headset connects via the Lightning connector, and the iPhone comes with a Lightning-to-3.5mm headphone jack adapter for connecting analog headphones via the Lightning port. For the iPhone SE and most earlier iPhone models, the headset connects via the headphone socket. Each iPhone includes a USB power adapter and a Lightning-to-USB cable. Each iPhone uses a nano-SIM card to connect to cellular networks. Each iPhone except the iPhone X has a Touch ID fingerprint reader.
Each iPhone runs iOS 11, the latest operating system from Apple, which comes with a suite of built-in apps, such as the Safari web browser and the Mail e-mail app.
The iPhone X models come in two colors: black, which is matte rather than glossy; and silver. The iPhone 8 models and iPhone 7 models come in five colors: jet black, which is glossy; black, which is matte; silver; gold; and rose gold. The iPhone SE comes in four colors: gold, silver, space gray, and rose gold.
The iPhone X has dual 12-megapixel cameras on the back and a front-facing camera with extra features that enable the Face ID authentication and unlocking system.
The iPhone 8 models and the iPhone 7 models have a 12-megapixel main camera on the back and a 7-megapixel camera on the front. The iPhone 8 Plus and the iPhone 7 Plus also include a second camera unit to enable optical zoom and other features. The iPhone SE has a 12-megapixel main camera and a 1.2-megapixel front camera.


Compare the iPhone X with the iPhone 8 Models
The iPhone X has the biggest screen of any iPhone but is physically smaller than the iPhone 8 Plus. To achieve its compact size, the iPhone X has much slimmer bezels than the iPhone 8 models. On the iPhone X, the front camera module, speaker, and microphone are inset into a cutout in the top of the screen, whereas on other iPhone models they are located in the top bezel above the screen.
Unlike other iPhone models, the iPhone X has no Home button below the screen. To unlock the iPhone X, you use the Face ID authentication feature, whereas on other current iPhone models, you use the Touch ID fingerprint recognition built into the Home button. To display the Home screen on the iPhone X, you swipe up the bar from the bottom of the screen, whereas on other iPhone models, you press the Home button.

 
Compare the iPhone 8 Models with the iPhone 7 Models

The two iPhone 8 models, the iPhone 8 and the iPhone 8 Plus, have faster processors than the corresponding iPhone 7 models, the iPhone 7 and the iPhone 7 Plus. Although each model has a 12-megapixel main camera with the same aperture settings, the cameras on the iPhone 8 models feature improved True Tone flash with a feature called Slow Sync for more even lighting with flash.
The iPhone 8 models and iPhone 7 models have a Home button that features haptic feedback to simulate being pressed without moving. By contrast, the iPhone SE has a physical Home button that actually presses in.
The iPhone 8 is fractionally bigger and heavier than the iPhone 7; the iPhone 8 Plus is fractionally bigger and heavier than the iPhone 7 Plus. These differences are almost imperceptible but may mean that tight-fitting cases for iPhone 7 models do not fit iPhone 8 models and vice versa.


Compare the iPhone Plus Models with the Regular Models
The iPhone 8 Plus and the iPhone 7 Plus are physically larger than the iPhone 8 and the iPhone 7 and have higher-definition screens that may enable you to see greater detail in photos and other high-definition content.
As well as being larger, the iPhone Plus models are somewhat heavier than the regular models; but if you are deciding between the Plus model and the regular model, your main consideration is likely to be whether the device will fit comfortably in your hand and your pocket or purse.
The iPhone 8 Plus and iPhone 7 Plus have a dual-camera module on the back rather than a single-camera module, as the other models have. One camera has a 28mm wide-angle lens, while the other has a 56mm telephoto lens to provide optical zoom, which gives higher image quality than the digital zoom provided by enlarging pixels via software. The Plus models also have a Portrait Mode for photos that blurs out the background to emphasize the subject; the iPhone X also has Portrait Mode.
All of these models have optical image stabilization to minimize camera shake. If you shoot many photos and videos, you may find this feature useful.



Apart from physical size, you should consider the storage capacity of the iPhone model you are thinking of buying. Having more storage enables you to install more apps and carry more music, movies, and other files with you. Having plenty of storage is especially important for shooting videos with your iPhone.
 
Compare the iPhone SE with the Larger iPhone Models

The iPhone SE is physically smaller than the iPhone 8 model and the iPhone 7. Its 4-inch screen has lower resolution than the screens on the larger models. It processor, an A9 model, is relatively powerful, but less powerful than the A10 Fusion processor on the iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus, which in turn is less powerful than the A11 Bionic processor on the iPhone 8 and iPhone 8 Plus.
While the rear camera on the iPhone SE has the same 12-megapixel resolution as the camera on the iPhone 8 models and iPhone 7 models, the front camera on the iPhone SE has relatively low 1.2-megapixel resolution.
All of these iPhone models have a Near Field Communication (NFC) chip that enables you to use the Apple Pay service to make payments from your iPhone.

 
Evaluate iPhone Storage Capacity

The iPhone models are available with different amounts of storage capacity. The diagram shows sample amounts of contents.
The iPhone X, iPhone 8, and iPhone 8 Plus come in 64GB and 256GB capacities.
The iPhone 7, iPhone 7 Plus, and iPhone SE come in 32GB and 128GB capacities.
Higher capacities command substantially higher prices, so you must decide how much you are prepared to spend. Generally speaking, higher-capacity devices get more use in the long run and are worth the extra cost.

 
Understanding the 3D Touch Feature

The iPhone X, the iPhone 8 models, and the iPhone 7 models include a feature called 3D Touch that provides shortcuts to content and to frequently used actions for the current item and context. 3D Touch uses force sensors in the screen to detect when you press the screen firmly rather than just tapping it. For example, you can press an app icon on the Home screen to display actions for that app. For instance, press Maps () to display the pop-up menu for the Maps app. You can then tap a button in the Maps Destinations box to get directions to upcoming appointments, tap Mark My Location to mark your location, tap Send My Location to share your location with a contact, or tap Search Nearby to search for businesses or other places near you.
3D Touch uses two actions, Peek and Pop. Peek enables you to get a preview of content by pressing it briefly. Pop opens the content when you press harder. For example, you can press an e-mail message to display a preview of its content using Peek. If you want to open the message, you press harder until the Pop action opens the message.


Understanding the Reachability Feature
iOS includes a feature called Reachability to help you use your iPhone with one hand when necessary. With the Reachability feature enabled, double-tap Home — double-tap rather than double-press — to slide the screen down so that you can easily reach the top of it. After you give a command, the screen slides back up again; if you decide not to give a command, double-tap Home again to slide the screen back up.
To enable Reachability, first tap Settings (), tap General (), and then tap Accessibility. Toward the bottom of the Accessibility screen, tap Reachability to display the Reachability screen, and then set the Reachability switch to On ().


Understanding the Live Photos Feature
All of the current iPhone models include a feature called Live Photos that enables you to capture short sections of video before and after a still photo. After capturing the Live Photo, you can make the video segments play by tapping and holding the photo.
You can view your Live Photos on other Apple devices, such as your iPad or your Mac. You can also use a Live Photo as the wallpaper for your iPhone's lock screen.



Meet Your iPhone's Hardware Controls
After unboxing your iPhone, connect it to its charger and charge the battery fully. Then turn your iPhone on and meet its hardware controls: the Power/Sleep button, the Ringer On/Off switch, the Volume Up button, and the Volume Down button, and the Home button below the screen of all iPhone models except the iPhone X. If the store or carrier has not inserted a SIM card in the iPhone, you will need to insert a suitable card yourself (see the tip for details).

Meet Your iPhone's Hardware Controls

 Press and hold the Power/Sleep button for a couple of seconds.

Note: The Power/Sleep button is on the right side of the iPhone X, the iPhone 8 models, and the iPhone 7 models, and on the top of the iPhone SE.
As the iPhone starts, the Apple logo appears on the screen.
Above the iPhone's screen are:
 The front-facing camera.
 The receiver speaker, which plays phone calls into your ear when you hold the iPhone up to your face.
 Below the iPhone's screen is the Home button, which you press to display the Home screen.
At the bottom of the iPhone are:
 The microphones.
 The Lightning connector.
 The speakers.
Note: On the iPhone X, the camera and receiver speaker are located in the cutout at the top of the screen.
Note: The bottom edge of the iPhone SE has a mono speaker on the right and a 3.5mm headphone socket on the left, looking from the front.

  Turn the iPhone so that you can see its left side. 
  When you want to turn the ringer off, move the Ringer On/Off switch to the rear so that the orange background appears.
Note: Turn the ringer off when you do not want the iPhone to disturb you or the peace. Move the Ringer On/Off switch back to the front when you want to turn the ringer back on. 
  Press the Volume Up ( + ) button to increase the ringer volume.
Note: When the Camera app is displayed, you can press the Volume Up ( + ) button to take a picture with the camera. 
  Press the Volume Down (-) button to decrease the ringer volume.

  When the lock screen appears, press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The iPhone unlocks, and the Home screen appears.

Tip
How do I insert a SIM card in my iPhone?
If the store or carrier has not inserted a SIM card, insert the SIM removal tool in the SIM hole on the right side of the iPhone. If you do not have a SIM removal tool, straighten out the end of a small paperclip and use that instead. Push gently until the tray pops out, and then pull it with your fingernails. Insert the SIM in the tray, and then push the tray in fully.




Download, Install, and Set Up iTunes
To sync your iPhone with your computer, you use Apple's iTunes application. iTunes comes preinstalled on every Mac but not on PCs; to get iTunes for Windows, you download it from the Apple website and then install it on your PC.
If you do not have a computer, or you do not want to sync your iPhone with your computer, you can set up and sync your iPhone using Apple's iCloud service, as described in "Set Up Your iPhone as New Using iCloud," later in this chapter.

Download, Install, and Set Up iTunes

  On your PC, open the web browser. This example uses the Microsoft Edge browser on Windows 10. 
  Click the Address box, type www.apple.com/itunes/download, and then press .
The Download iTunes Now web page appears.
  Click the check boxes (  changes to ) unless you want to receive e-mail from Apple.
  Click Download now. 
  When the download finishes, click Run in the pop-up panel that appears.

The iTunes installation begins, and the Welcome to iTunes dialog opens. 
  Click Next, and then follow the steps of the installer.

Note: You must accept the license agreement to install iTunes.
The Installation Options screen appears.
  Click Add iTunes shortcut to my desktop (  changes to ) unless you want this shortcut.
  Click Use iTunes as the default player for audio files (  changes to ) if you do not want to use iTunes as the default audio player.
  Click Automatically update iTunes and other Apple software (  changes to ) if you do not want automatic updates. 
  Click Install.

Note: If the User Account Control dialog opens, make sure that the Program Name is iTunes and the Verified Publisher is Apple Inc. Then click Yes.
The Congratulations screen appears.
  Click Open iTunes after the installer exits (  changes to ) if you do not want iTunes to launch automatically when you close the installer. 
  Click Finish.
The installer closes.
Unless you chose not to open iTunes automatically, iTunes opens.

Tips
Should I allow Apple to install updates automatically on my PC?
If this is your own PC, installing updates automatically is usually helpful. The updates may include fixes to bugs or vulnerabilities, new features, or both. 
How do I set up iTunes on a Mac?
If you have not run iTunes already, click iTunes () on the Dock. If the Dock contains no iTunes icon, click Launchpad () on the Dock, and then click iTunes () on the Launchpad screen. The iTunes Setup Assistant launches. Follow the steps to set up iTunes.




Begin Setup and Activate Your iPhone
Before you can use your iPhone, you must set it up and activate it. First, you choose your language and specify your country or region. You can then either use the Quick Start feature if you have an iPhone or iPad running iOS 11 or continue setup manually. Assuming you continue manually, you connect the iPhone to the Internet through either a Wi-Fi network or the cellular network, choose whether to use Touch ID fingerprint unlocking, and choose a passcode.

Begin Setup and Activate Your iPhone

Note: If you are upgrading from an existing iPhone, see Chapter 12 for instructions on turning off Find My iPhone, backing up the iPhone fully, and resetting it.

  Turn on the iPhone by pressing and holding the Power/Sleep button until the Apple logo appears on-screen. 
  When the initial iPhone screen appears, press Home. On the iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The setup routine begins.
The Language screen appears. 
  Tap the language you want to use.

The Select Your Country or Region screen appears. 
  Tap your country or region.
The Quick Start screen appears. 
  If you have an iPhone or iPad running iOS 11, bring it close to the iPhone and follow the prompts. Otherwise, tap Set Up Manually and follow the remaining steps in this list.

The Choose a Wi-Fi Network screen appears. 
  Tap the wireless network you want to use.

 If your Wi-Fi network does not appear because it does not broadcast its network name, tap Choose Another Network. You can then type the network's name.
Note: If your Wi-Fi network does not appear because it is out of range, tap Use Cellular Connection.
The Enter Password screen appears.
  Type the password. 
  Tap Join.

The Touch ID screen appears. On an iPhone X, the Face ID screen appears. Follow the prompts to set up Face ID, which enables you to unlock the iPhone X by holding it up to your face. Skip to step 13. 
  Tap Continue if you want to use Touch ID.
 Tap Set Up Touch ID Later if you do not want to set up Touch ID now.
 The Place Your Finger screen appears.

  Place your finger or thumb on the Home button, following the prompts.
The fingerprint reader scans your finger or thumb and fills in the lines as you lift and replace your finger.

Tip
Should I use Touch ID or Face ID for unlocking my iPhone?
Using Touch ID or Face ID is usually the most convenient way of unlocking an iPhone quickly but securely. As of this writing, only the iPhone X has Face ID. All other current models of iPhone have Touch ID instead.




After setting up Touch ID — or Face ID on an iPhone X — and a passcode, you choose how to complete setting up the iPhone. If you have not used an iOS device before, you can set up the iPhone as a new iPhone. If you have used an iOS device, you can restore an iCloud backup or an iTunes backup of that device to the iPhone. If you have been using an Android device, you can use the Move to iOS app to move data to the iPhone.


The Adjust Your Grip screen appears.
 Tap Continue.
The Place Your Finger screen appears again, showing a larger fingerprint area. 
 Continue scanning your fingerprint, now placing the edges of your finger on the Home button.

The Complete screen appears. 
 Tap Continue.
The Create a Passcode screen appears.
 To use a standard passcode, type a six-digit passcode, and then repeat it on the Re-Enter Your Passcode screen.

 To create a different type of passcode, tap Passcode Options.

The Passcode Options dialog opens.
 Tap Custom Alphanumeric Code, Custom Numeric Code, or 4-Digit Numeric Code, as appropriate, and follow the prompts to create the passcode. See the tip for advice on which type of passcode to create. 
 If the This Passcode Can Be Easily Guessed dialog opens, tap Change Passcode and create a stronger passcode.

After you create your passcode, the Apps & Data screen appears.
 Tap the appropriate button:  
 Tap Restore from iCloud Backup to set up your iPhone using a backup stored in iCloud. See the section "Set Up Your iPhone from an iCloud Backup," later in this chapter.
 Tap Restore from iTunes Backup to set up your iPhone using a backup stored on your computer. See the section "Set Up Your iPhone from iTunes," later in this chapter.
 Tap Set Up as New iPhone to set up your iPhone from scratch using iCloud. See the next section, "Set Up Your iPhone as New Using iCloud."
 Tap Move Data from Android to use the Move to iOS app to move data from an Android device.

Tip
Which type of passcode should I create?
The default setting — a six-digit numeric passcode — provides adequate security for most people as long as you avoid the temptation to derive the numbers from your birthdate, which can be easily guessed. If you need stronger security, choose Custom Numeric Code and create a passcode of eight or more digits. For the strongest security, choose Custom Alphanumeric Code and create a passcode of ten or more characters. Choose 4-Digit Numeric Code only if your iPhone contains no sensitive or valuable data at all.




Set Up Your iPhone as New Using iCloud
If you want to use your iPhone without syncing it to your computer, set it up using Apple's iCloud online service. With this approach, you sync your data to your account on iCloud, from which you can access it using other iOS devices, a Mac, or a web browser on any computer.
To set up a new iPhone to use iCloud, follow the instructions in the previous section to begin setup, and then continue with the instructions in this section.

Set Up Your iPhone as New Using iCloud

  Begin setup as explained in the previous section, "Begin Setup and Activate Your iPhone." 
  On the Apps & Data screen, tap Set Up as New iPhone.
The Apple ID screen appears.
 You can tap Don't have an Apple ID or forgot it? to create a new Apple ID or get a reminder about your existing Apple ID.
 You can tap About Apple ID and Privacy to see information about privacy concerns.
  Tap Apple ID and type your Apple ID. 
 You can quickly enter widely used domains, such as .com and .edu, by tapping and holding . (the period key) and then sliding your finger to the appropriate domain on the pop-up panel.
  Tap Password and type your password. 
  Tap Next.

The Apple ID Verification Code dialog opens. 
  Type the verification code sent to your other iOS device or Mac.
The Terms and Conditions screen appears. 
  Read the terms and conditions, and tap Agree if you want to proceed.

The Express Settings screen appears. 
  Tap Continue.
 You can tap Customize Settings to choose settings that control whether apps and services may use your location data and whether your iPhone uploads anonymized usage data to help Apple improve its products. 
 The Apple Pay screen appears.
  Tap Continue.
 You can tap Set Up Later in Wallet to skip setting up Apple Pay.

The Add Card screen appears. 
  Point the rear camera lens at your credit card or debit card.
The setup routine recognizes the card details.
  The Card Details screen appears.
 You can tap Enter Card Details Manually if the recognition fails or is inaccurate.
 You can tap Set Up Later in Wallet to skip adding a card. 
  Follow the prompts to set up Apple Pay.
The iCloud Keychain screen appears.
 You can tap Don't use iCloud Keychain if you do not want to restore your passwords from iCloud to your iPhone.
  Tap Continue, and then follow any prompts to set up iCloud Keychain.

Tip
Why should I use iCloud Keychain?
iCloud Keychain gives you an easy way to store your passwords and credit card information securely on your iPhone, other iOS devices, or Mac. Instead of having to remember the password for each website, or look at a credit card when you need to enter its details, iCloud Keychain can automatically provide the details.
iCloud Keychain encrypts your data, but you must use a complex passcode to keep it secure.




When you set up your iPhone using iCloud, use an e-mail address that you intend to keep for the long term. This is especially important if you use the same e-mail address for the Apple ID that you use for the App Store; each app you buy is tied to that e-mail address, so if you change the address, you will need to authenticate again for each app update.


The Siri screen appears.
 Tap Continue and follow the prompts to set up Siri's voice recognition.
 You can tap Set Up Later in Settings if you do not want to turn on Siri now.
Note: You can turn Siri on or off at any point after setup.
The "Hey Siri" Is Ready screen appears. 
 Tap Continue.

The App Analytics screen appears. 
 Tap Share with App Developers if you want to share usage statistics and crash data with the developers of the apps you use. Otherwise, tap Don't Share.
The Meet the New Home Button screen appears. 
 Tap Get Started.
 You can tap Customize Later in Settings if you do not want to customize the Home button now.

The Choose Your Click screen appears.
 Tap 1, 2, or 3, and then press Home to feel the haptic feedback. 
 When you have chosen the haptic click you prefer, tap Next.
The first Display Zoom screen appears. 
 Tap Choose a View.

The second Display Zoom screen appears.
 You can tap Standard or Zoomed to switch between the views and decide which you prefer.
 You can swipe left to view other sample screens to help choose which zoom to use. 
 Tap Next.
The Welcome to iPhone screen appears. 
 Tap Get Started.
The Home screen appears, and you can begin using your iPhone.

Tip
What is Siri and should I enable it?
Siri is Apple's voice-driven assistant, which enables you to interact with your iPhone by voice. Many people find Siri useful, but if you do not, you can turn Siri off at any time. See Chapter 3 for instructions on using and customizing Siri.




Set Up Your iPhone from an iCloud Backup
If you have used an iPhone or other iOS device before, you can set up your iPhone by restoring from an iCloud backup. This backup can be from either another iPhone or iOS device or from the same iPhone.
When you restore your iPhone from an iCloud backup, you choose which backup to use — normally, the most recent one. iOS automatically restores your settings, downloads your apps from the App Store, and then installs them on the iPhone.

Set Up Your iPhone from an iCloud Backup

  Begin setup as explained in the section "Begin Setup and Activate Your iPhone," earlier in this chapter. 
  On the Apps & Data screen, tap Restore from iCloud Backup.
The iCloud Sign In screen appears.
  Type your Apple ID.
  Type your password. 
  Tap Next.
The Terms and Conditions screen appears. 
  Tap Agree.

The Apple ID Verification Code dialog opens. 
  Type the verification code sent to your other iOS device or Mac.
The Choose Backup screen appears. 
  Tap the backup you want to use.
 You can tap Show All Backups to display other available backups.

The Settings from Your Backup screen appears. 
  Tap Continue to proceed and restore all the settings listed.
 You can tap Customize Settings to choose which settings to restore to the iPhone. 
 The Siri screen appears.
  Tap Continue and follow the prompts to set up Siri's voice recognition.
 You can tap Set Up Later in Settings if you do not want to turn on Siri now.
Note: You can turn Siri on or off at any point after setup.
The "Hey Siri" Is Ready screen appears. 
  Tap Continue.

The App Analytics screen appears. 
  Tap Share with App Developers if you want to share usage statistics and crash data with the developers of the apps you use. Otherwise, tap Don't Share.
The Restore from iCloud screen appears as iOS restores the backup to your iPhone.
Note: If iOS prompts you to enter your passcode, do so.
The iPhone restarts.
The lock screen appears. You can then unlock the iPhone and start using it.

Tip
Which iPhone backup should I use?
Normally, it is best to use the most recent backup available for this iPhone or for the iPhone whose backups you are using. But sometimes you may find a problem exists with the latest backup. In that case, try the previous backup.




Set Up Your iPhone from iTunes
Instead of setting up your iPhone using iCloud, as described in the previous two sections, you can set it up using iTunes. You can either restore an iTunes backup to the device or set up the iPhone from scratch using iTunes.
When setting up your iPhone for the first time, you can restore it from an iTunes backup of another iPhone — for example, your previous iPhone. If you have already set up this iPhone, you can restore it from its own backup.

Set Up Your iPhone from iTunes

  Begin setup as explained in the section "Begin Setup and Activate Your iPhone," earlier in this chapter. 
  On the Apps & Data screen, tap Restore from iTunes Backup.
The Connect to iTunes screen appears. 
  Connect your iPhone to your computer via the USB cable.

On your computer, iTunes opens or becomes active.
The Welcome to Your New iPhone screen appears.
  Make sure the Restore from this backup radio button is selected ().
  Click the pop-up menu button () and select the appropriate iPhone from the menu. 
  Click Continue.

iTunes restores your iPhone from the backup.
When the restore is complete, your iPhone restarts.

Your iPhone's control screens appear in the iTunes window.
You can now choose sync settings for the iPhone as explained in the next section, "Choose Which Items to Sync from Your Computer."

Tip
How do I set up my iPhone from scratch using iTunes?
On the Apps & Data screen, tap Restore from iTunes Backup, and then connect your iPhone to your computer via the USB cable. When the Welcome to Your New iPhone screen appears in iTunes on your computer, click Set up as new iPhone (  changes to ). Click Continue. On the Sync with iTunes screen that appears, click Get Started. The iPhone's control screens appear, and you can set up synchronization as described in the next section, "Choose Which Items to Sync from Your Computer."




Choose Which Items to Sync from Your Computer
After specifying that you will use iTunes to sync your iPhone, as explained in the previous section, "Set Up Your iPhone from iTunes," you use the iPhone's control screens in iTunes to choose which items to sync. When setting your sync preferences, start on the Summary tab. Here, you can change your iPhone's name, choose whether to back up the iPhone to iCloud or to your computer, decide whether to encrypt the backup, and set general options for controlling syncing.

Choose Which Items to Sync from Your Computer


Connect Your iPhone and Choose Options on the Summary Tab 
  Connect your iPhone to your computer via the USB cable.
The iTunes window appears. 
  If your iPhone's control screens do not automatically appear, click iPhone () on the navigation bar at the top of the screen.
Note: Your iPhone appears in iTunes with either a default name or the name you have given it.

The iPhone's control screens appear. 
  Click Summary if the Summary screen is not already displayed.
The Summary screen appears.
  To change the iPhone's name, click the existing name, type the new name, and press   or .
  In the Automatically Back Up area, click iCloud (  changes to ) or This computer (  changes to ) to specify where to back up your iPhone. 
  If you choose to back up to this computer, click Encrypt iPhone backup (  changes to ).

The Set Password dialog opens.
  Type a password in the Password box and again in the Verify Password box.
  On a Mac, click Remember this password in my keychain (  changes to ) if you want to save the password in your keychain. 
  Click Set Password.

The Set Password dialog closes.
  Click Automatically sync when this iPhone is connected (  changes to ) if you want to sync your iPhone automatically when you connect it.
  Click Sync only checked songs and videos (  changes to ) if you want syncing to omit any song or video whose check box you have deselected ().
  Click Convert higher bit rate songs to AAC (  changes to ) if you want to compress larger songs to fit more on your iPhone. In the pop-up menu, choose the bit rate.

Tip
Should I back up my iPhone to my computer or to iCloud?
If you plan to use your iPhone mostly with your computer, back up the iPhone to the computer. Doing so makes iTunes store a full backup of the iPhone on the computer, so you can restore all the data to your iPhone, or to a replacement iPhone, if necessary. You can also encrypt the backup; doing so enables you to store and restore your passwords. To keep your data safe, you must back up your computer as well. For example, you can use Time Machine to back up a Mac.
Backing up your iPhone to iCloud enables you to access the backups from anywhere via the Internet, but make sure your iCloud account has enough storage to contain the backups. An iCloud backup stores less information than an iTunes backup.





iTunes makes it easy to choose which items to sync to your iPhone. By selecting the iPhone in the navigation bar in iTunes, and then clicking the appropriate item in the Settings area of the Source list, you can quickly choose which apps, music, movies, books, and other items to sync from your computer.



Choose Which Apps to Sync 
  Click Apps. 
 You can click the pop-up menu button () and choose how to sort the apps: Click Sort by Name, Sort by Kind, Sort by Category, Sort by Date Added, or Sort by Size, as needed.
  Click Install for each app you want to sync to the iPhone (Install changes to Will Install).
  Scroll down the screen and click Automatically install new apps (  changes to ) if you want to sync new apps automatically. This is usually helpful.



Choose Which Music to Sync 
  Click Music.
  Click Sync Music (  changes to ).
  To load a selection of music, click Selected playlists, artists, albums, and genres (  changes to ) instead of Entire music library. 
 Click Automatically fill free space with songs (  changes to ) only if you want to put as much music as possible on your iPhone.
  Click the check box (  changes to ) for each playlist, artist, genre, or album to include.



Sync Books 
  Click Books.
The Books controls appear.
  Click Sync Books (  changes to ).
  Click All books (  changes to ) or Selected books (  changes to ). 
  If you click Selected books, use the controls in the Books box to choose which books to sync.
Note: You can sync photos from your computer only if you are not using the iCloud Photos feature. If you have enabled iCloud Photos, your iPhone syncs your photos through iCloud instead.



Apply Your Changes and Sync 
  Click Apply or Sync.
Note: The Apply button appears when you have made changes to the items you will sync. Click Apply to apply the changes and sync them.
iTunes syncs the items to your iPhone.
 The readout shows you the sync progress.
 If you need to stop the sync, click Stop ().
  When the sync finishes, disconnect your iPhone.

Tip
How can I fit more content on my iPhone?
You cannot install a memory card to increase your iPhone's storage capacity, but you can use the iPhone Storage feature to remove items you do not need.
Press Home; on an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen. Tap Settings () to display the Settings screen, and then tap General (). On the General screen, tap iPhone Storage to display the iPhone Storage screen. You can then follow suggestions in the Recommendations box, such as tapping Enable for Optimize Photos or for Offload Unused Apps, or tap buttons in the lower section to see which apps and files are consuming the most space.





Sync Your iPhone with iTunes via Wi-Fi
Instead of syncing your iPhone with iTunes via USB, you can sync it wirelessly or "over the air." You must connect your iPhone and your computer to the same network.
To use wireless sync, you must first enable it in iTunes. You can then have the iPhone sync automatically when connected to a power source and to the same wireless network as the computer. You can also start a sync manually from the iPhone, even if it is not connected to a power source.

Sync Your iPhone with iTunes via Wi-Fi


Set Your iPhone to Sync with iTunes via Wi-Fi 
  Connect your iPhone to your computer with the USB cable.
The iTunes window appears. 
  Click iPhone ().
Note: Your iPhone appears in iTunes with the name you gave it.
The iPhone's control screens appear. 
  Click Summary.
The Summary screen appears.
  Click Sync with this iPhone over Wi-Fi (  changes to ). 
  Click Apply.
iTunes applies the change.
  Disconnect your iPhone from your computer.



Perform a Manual Sync via Wi-Fi 
  Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
  Tap Settings ().
The Settings screen appears. 
  Tap General ().

The General screen appears. 
  Tap iTunes Wi-Fi Sync.
The iTunes Wi-Fi Sync screen appears. 
  Tap Sync Now.

The sync runs.
 The Sync symbol () appears in the status bar.
 The readout shows which part of the sync is currently running. 
  When the sync completes, tap General ().
The General screen appears.

Tip
Can I sync my iPhone automatically via Wi-Fi?
Yes. To sync your iPhone automatically via Wi-Fi, connect your iPhone to a power source — for example, the iPhone power adapter. Make sure your computer is on and connected to your network, and that iTunes is running. Your iPhone automatically connects to your computer across the wireless network. iTunes syncs the latest songs, videos, and data.
To avoid interruptions, iTunes may sync your iPhone overnight. This means you need to leave your computer on for automatic syncing to occur, but it is fine for the computer to be asleep.





Explore the Interface and Launch Apps
After you set up your iPhone with iCloud or iTunes, you are ready to start using the device. When you wake the iPhone from sleep, it displays the lock screen. You then unlock the iPhone to reach the Home screen, which contains icons for running the apps installed on the iPhone.
You can quickly launch an app by tapping its icon on the Home screen. From the app, you can return to the Home screen by pressing Home; on an iPhone X, you swipe up from the bottom of the screen instead. You can then launch another app as needed.

Explore the Interface and Launch Apps

  Press Home with a finger or thumb you have registered for Touch ID, the fingerprint-unlocking feature. On an iPhone X, tap the screen and raise the iPhone, pointing the screen at your face.
The iPhone's screen lights up.
The lock screen appears momentarily.
The iPhone unlocks.
The Home screen appears.
Note: If you are not using Touch ID or Face ID, or you press Home with a nonregistered finger or thumb, the iPhone prompts you to enter your passcode. After you enter the passcode correctly, the iPhone unlocks, and the Home screen appears.
 The iPhone has two or more Home screens. The gray dots at the bottom of the Home screen show how many Home screens you have. The white dot shows the current Home screen. 
  Tap Notes ().

The Notes app opens.
Note: If you chose to sync notes with your iPhone, the synced notes appear in the Notes app. Otherwise, the list is empty until you create a note. 
  Tap New ().
A new note opens, and the on-screen keyboard appears.

  Type a short note by tapping the keys. 
 If the middle button in the suggestion bar shows the word you want, tap   to accept it. If one of the other buttons shows the right word, tap that button. 
  Tap Done.
The on-screen keyboard closes.
  Tap Notes (). 
 The Notes list appears, with your note in it. 
  Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.

The Home screen appears. 
  Swipe left to display the second Home screen.
Note: You can also tap at the right end of the row of dots on the Home screen to move one screen to the right. Tap at the left end to move one screen to the left.
You can now launch another app by tapping its icon. 
  Press the Power/Sleep button.
Your iPhone goes to sleep.

Tip
Where do I get more apps to perform other tasks?
You can find an amazingly wide selection of apps — both free and those you pay for — on Apple's App Store. See Chapter 7 for instructions on finding and downloading the apps you need.




Using Cover Sheet and Today View
Your iPhone handles many different types of alerts, such as missed phone calls, text messages, and invitations to events such as meetings. Your iPhone integrates these alerts into Cover Sheet so that you can review them easily.
The iPhone's Today View enables you to view snippets of important and helpful information, such as weather, calendar appointments, and stock updates. You can access Today View either via Cover Sheet or directly from the Home screen.

Using Cover Sheet and Today View


Open Cover Sheet and Deal with Notifications 
  Swipe down from the top of the screen.
Cover Sheet appears.
Note: See the section "Choose Which Apps Can Give Notifications" in Chapter 2 for instructions on customizing the notifications that appear on Cover Sheet.
 You can tap Clear () to clear all notifications in a category such as Yesterday. 
  To remove a single notification, swipe it left.

Action buttons for the notification appear.
 You can tap View to view the notification in its app. 
  Tap Clear.
The notification disappears from Cover Sheet. 
  Press a notification.
The Peek panel opens, together with action buttons. 
  Tap the action you want to take. For example, for an e-mail message, tap Mark as Read to mark the message as read.
Note: To go to the app that raised a notification, tap the notification. 
  When you finish working on Cover Sheet, press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears.



Open Today View 
  Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears.
Note: If the Home screen that appears is not the first Home screen, press Home again or swipe up again to display the first Home screen. 
  Swipe right.
 You can also tap the gray dot at the bottom of the screen.
Today View appears.
Note: You can customize the selection of widgets in Today View. See the section "Customize Today View" in Chapter 2 for details. 
  Swipe up.

Other items appear.
 You can tap a widget to go straight to the related app.
 You can tap an item such as a reminder to mark it as done. 
  Swipe left.
The Home screen appears.

Tip
What happens if I receive a notification when my iPhone is locked?
This depends on the type of notification. For most types of notifications, your iPhone displays an alert on the lock screen to alert you to the notification. Unlocking your iPhone while the alert is showing takes you directly to the notification in whatever app it belongs to — for example, to an instant message in the Messages app.





Using Control Center
Control Center puts your iPhone's most essential controls at your fingertips. From Control Center, you can turn Airplane Mode, Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, Do Not Disturb Mode, and Orientation Lock on or off; control music playback and volume and direct your iPhone's audio and video output to AirPlay devices; change the setting for the AirDrop sharing feature; and quickly access the Flashlight, Clock, Calculator, and Camera apps. Control Center appears as a pane that you open by swiping upward from the bottom of the screen on the Home screen or in most apps.

Using Control Center


Open Control Center 
  On an iPhone X, swipe down from the upper-right corner of the screen. On other iPhone models, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
Control Center opens. 
 You can drag the Brightness slider to control screen brightness. Press the Brightness slider to display a larger slider and the Night Shift icon (), which you can tap to turn Night Shift on or off. See the section "Configure Night Shift and Display Zoom" in Chapter 2 for information on Night Shift.
 You can drag the Volume slider to control audio volume.



Control Essential Settings 
  Tap Airplane Mode (  or ) to turn Airplane Mode on () or off ().
  Tap Wi-Fi (  or ) to turn Wi-Fi on () or off ().
  Tap Cellular Data (  or ) to turn Cellular Data on () or off ().
  Tap Bluetooth (  or ) to turn Bluetooth on () or off ().
  Tap Do Not Disturb (  or ) to turn Do Not Disturb Mode on () or off ().
  Tap Orientation Lock (  or ) to turn Orientation Lock on () or off (). 
  Press the Communications box firmly.
The Communications panel opens.
  Tap AirDrop () to change the AirDrop setting.
  Tap Personal Hotspot (  or ) to turn Personal Hotspot on () or off (). 
  Tap outside the Communications panel.
The Communications panel closes.



Choose an AirPlay Device for Audio 
 Tap the song information to go to the song in the Music app.
 Tap Previous () to go back to the start of the song. Tap again to play the previous song.
 Tap Next () to play the next song.
 Tap Pause () to pause playback. 
  Press the Audio box firmly.
The Audio panel opens.
 You can drag the playhead to move through the song. 
  Tap AirPlay ().

The list of AirPlay devices appears. 
  Tap the audio device to use for output.
The iPhone starts playing audio on that device. 
  Tap Done.
The Now Playing On panel closes. 
  Tap the screen outside the Audio panel.
The Audio panel closes. 
  Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
Control Center closes.

Tip
What are the buttons at the bottom of Control Center?
Tap Flashlight () to turn on the Flashlight. Press Flashlight () firmly to display the Flashlight panel, which lets you choose among four brightnesses. Tap Timer () to display the Timer screen in the Clock app. Press Timer () firmly to display the Timer panel, which enables you to set timers for preset times from 1 minute up to 2 hours. Tap Calculator () to display the Calculator app. Tap Camera () to display the Camera app.





Using 3D Touch
The iPhone's 3D Touch feature enables you to take actions quickly by pressing firmly with your finger on the screen instead of tapping or tapping and holding. 3D Touch gives you an alternative way to access some commands in some apps.
Only some apps offer 3D Touch actions, although Apple is encouraging developers to include 3D Touch in their apps. Similarly, only some iPhone models have 3D Touch.

Understanding Which iPhone Models Have 3D Touch
All current iPhone models except the iPhone SE have 3D Touch. iPhone models as far back as 2015's iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus also have 3D Touch.


Understanding 3D Touch's Three Main Features
3D Touch has three main features:
• Quick Actions. These are actions you can take by pressing an app's icon on the Home screen or in another location.
• Peek. This feature enables you to preview the content of an item, such as an e-mail message or a photo.
• Pop. This feature enables you to fully open an item into which you have Peeked.

 
Using Quick Actions from the Home Screen

3D Touch enables you to take a variety of useful actions directly from the Home screen using the Quick Actions feature. To access Quick Actions on the Home screen, you press the appropriate app's icon firmly and then tap the Quick Action on the menu that opens.
If you firmly press an icon that does not provide any Quick Actions, the screen blinks briefly and your iPhone vibrates, as if to shake its head to say "no."

 
Understanding How Peek and Pop Work

When using 3D Touch, you normally begin with the Peek action, which opens the Peek panel to give you a preview of the contents of an item. The Peek panel stays open only as long as you keep pressing with the same pressure; when you lift your finger, the Peek panel closes.
Instead of lifting your finger, you can press a little harder to Pop open the item. For example, in Mail, you can 3D-Touch a message to open its Peek panel to look at its contents. You can then 3D-Touch further to Pop the message open for reading, or simply lift your finger to allow the message to close again.

 
Exploring 3D Touch

This book gives some examples of 3D Touch in cases where it is especially convenient. But there are many other actions you can take with 3D Touch, assuming that your iPhone model supports it.
You can explore 3D Touch further by simply pressing icons or other objects in the user interface and seeing if a Quick Actions menu opens or a Peek panel appears. When you do get the menu or the panel, evaluate whether you will be able to save time by using this feature — and if so, add it to your iPhone repertoire.









Chapter 2
Personalizing Your iPhone


To make your iPhone work the way you prefer, you can configure its many settings. In this chapter, you learn how to control iCloud sync, notifications, audio preferences, screen brightness, and other key aspects of the iPhone's behavior. 
Find the Settings You Need
Choose Which iCloud Items to Sync
Choose Which Apps Can Give Notifications
Choose Sounds and Haptics Settings
Set Display Brightness and Wallpapers
Configure Night Shift and Display Zoom
Choose Privacy and Location Settings
Configure and Use Search
Choose Locking and Control Center Settings
Set Up and Use Do Not Disturb Mode
Customize Today View
Secure Your iPhone with Touch ID or Face ID
Configure Restrictions and Parental Controls
Set Up Family Sharing and Add Members
Choose Date, Time, and International Settings


Find the Settings You Need
The iOS operating system includes many settings that enable you to configure your iPhone to work the way you prefer. The central place for manipulating settings is the Settings app, which contains settings for the iPhone's system software, the apps the iPhone includes, and third-party apps you have added. To reach the settings, you first display the Settings screen and then the category of settings you want to configure.

Find the Settings You Need



Display the Settings Screen 
 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Settings ().
The Settings screen appears.
 You can tap Settings () and type a setting name or keyword to locate the setting. You may need to drag down the screen to reveal the Search bar.
 The Apple ID button, which shows your Apple ID name, gives access to settings for your Apple ID and your accounts for iCloud, iTunes, and the App Store.
 The top section of the Settings screen contains settings you are likely to use frequently, such as Airplane Mode, Wi-Fi, and Bluetooth. 
 Tap and drag up to scroll down the screen. 

 This section contains settings for built-in apps and features developed by Apple.
 Tap and drag up to scroll farther down the screen. You can also swipe up to move more quickly. 
 This section contains settings for apps you install. These apps can be either from Apple or from third-party developers.


Display a Settings Screen 
 On the Settings screen, tap the button for the settings category you want to display. For example, tap Sounds & Haptics () to display the Sounds and Haptics screen.
 Tap Settings () when you are ready to return to the Settings screen.



Display the Settings for an App 
 On the Settings screen, tap the button for the app whose settings you want to display. For example, tap Safari () to display the Safari settings.
 Tap Settings () when you are ready to return to the Settings screen. 
 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears again.
Note: When you next open the Settings app, it displays the screen you were last using. For convenience, it is usually best to return to the main Settings screen when you finish choosing settings.

Tip
Where do I find other settings for an app?
As well as the settings that you access by tapping the button bearing the app's name on the Settings screen, some apps include settings that you configure directly within the app. For such apps, look for a Settings icon or menu item.
To configure notifications for an app, tap Notifications () on the Settings screen, and then tap the app's button. To configure Location Services settings for an app, tap Privacy () on the Settings screen, tap Location Services (), and then tap the app's button.





Choose Which iCloud Items to Sync
Apple's iCloud service enables you to sync many types of data — such as your e-mail account details, your contacts, and your calendars and reminders — online so you can access them from any of your devices. You can also use the Find My iPhone feature to locate your iPhone when it goes missing. To use iCloud, you set your iPhone to use your Apple ID, and then choose which features to use.

Choose Which iCloud Items to Sync

 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Settings ().
The Settings screen appears.
 Tap the Apple ID button. This button shows the name you have set for your Apple ID. 
 Tap iCloud ().

The iCloud screen appears.
 In the Apps Using iCloud section, set each app's switch to On () or Off (), as needed. 
 Tap Photos ().
The Photos screen appears.
 Set the iCloud Photo Library switch to On () to store all your photos in iCloud.
 Tap Optimize iPhone Storage to store lower-resolution versions of photos on your iPhone to save space. Tap Download and Keep Originals if you prefer to keep original, full-quality photos on your iPhone.
 Set the Upload to My Photo Stream switch to On () to upload photos to your photo stream.
 Set the iCloud Photo Sharing switch to On () to use Photo Sharing. 
 Tap iCloud ().

The iCloud screen appears again.
 Swipe up to scroll down to the lower part of the screen.
 Set the iCloud Drive switch to On () to enable iCloud Drive.
 In the next two sections, set each app's switch to On () or Off () to control whether the app can use iCloud.  
 You can tap Look Me Up to control which apps can look you up by your Apple ID.
 You can tap Share My Location to control whether iCloud shares your location.
 You can tap Mail to change your name in outgoing iCloud messages or choose advanced settings. 
 Swipe down to scroll up until iCloud Drive appears at the bottom of the screen.

 Tap Keychain () to display the Keychain screen, set the iCloud Keychain switch to On (), and then create a security code if prompted to do so.
 Tap Find My iPhone () to display the Find My iPhone screen, set the Find My iPhone switch to On (), and set the Send Last Location switch to On () or Off (), as necessary. 
 Tap iCloud Backup ().
The Backup screen appears.
 Set the iCloud Backup switch to On (). 
 Tap iCloud ().
The iCloud screen appears again.

Tips
How much space does iCloud provide?
iCloud provides 5GB of space for a free account. Content and apps you acquire from Apple do not count against this space, nor do your Photo Stream photos or songs included in iTunes Match — but iCloud Photo Sharing does count. You can buy more space by tapping Storage, and then tapping Buy More Storage on the iCloud screen that appears. 
Should I turn on Find My iPhone?
Yes. Find My iPhone enables you to locate your iPhone when you misplace it or learn where it is when someone takes it. It also prevents someone else from activating your iPhone on his or her own account.




Choose Which Apps Can Give Notifications
Some iPhone apps can notify you of events that occur, such as messages arriving or updates becoming available. You can choose which notifications an app gives or prevent an app from showing notifications. You can also control notification previews and choose which notifications appear on Cover Sheet, the iOS screen for current notifications, and in History, which contains older notifications.
iPhone apps use three types of notifications: badges on app icons, persistent banners, and temporary banners. See the tip for details.

Choose Which Apps Can Give Notifications

 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Settings ().
The Settings screen appears. 
 Tap Notifications ().

The Notifications screen appears.
 To choose your default setting for notification previews, tap Show Previews, and then tap Always, When Unlocked, or Never, as needed. 
 Tap the app for which you want to configure notifications. This example uses Calendar ().
The screen for configuring the app's notifications appears. 
 Set the Allow Notifications switch to On () to enable notifications.
Note: For some apps, all the options appear on the screen for configuring the app's notifications. 
 Tap the button for the notification type you want to configure. This example uses Upcoming Events.

The screen for configuring that notification type appears, such as the Upcoming Events screen.
 Tap Sounds.
 Tap the sound you want to use.  
 You can tap None for no sound.
 You can tap Tone Store to browse and buy tones.
 You can tap Vibration and choose the vibration pattern for the notification type. 
 Tap the Back button (), such as Upcoming Events () in this example.

 Set the Badge App Icon switch to On () to show badges.
 Set the Show on Cover Sheet switch to On () or Off (), as needed.
 Set the Show in History switch to On () or Off (), as needed.
 If you want the notifications to appear as banners, set the Show as Banners switch to On (), then tap Temporary or Persistent, as appropriate. 
 To exempt this app from your default preview setting, tap Show Previews.
The Show Previews screen appears.
 Tap Always, When Unlocked, or Never, as needed.

Tip
What are the three kinds of notifications?
A badge is a red circle or rounded rectangle that appears on the app's icon on the Home screen and shows a white number indicating how many notifications there are. A temporary banner is a pop-up notification that appears briefly at the top of the screen and then disappears automatically. A persistent banner — previously called an alert — is like a temporary banner, but you must dismiss it before you can take other actions on your iPhone. Whichever notification type you choose, you can set the Sounds switch to On () to have your iPhone play a sound to get your attention.




Choose Sounds and Haptics Settings
The Sounds & Haptics screen in Settings enables you to control what audio feedback and vibration feedback your iPhone gives you. You can have the iPhone always vibrate to signal incoming calls, or vibrate only when the ringer is silent. You can set the ringer and alerts volumes, choose your default ringtone and text tone, and choose which items can give you alerts. Your iPhone can play lock sounds to confirm you have locked or unlocked your iPhone. It can also play keyboard clicks to confirm each key press.

Choose Sounds and Haptics Settings

 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Settings ().
The Settings screen appears. 
 Tap Sounds & Haptics ().

The Sounds & Haptics screen appears.
 Set the Vibrate on Ring switch to On () or Off (), as needed.
 Set the Vibrate on Silent switch to On () or Off (), as needed.
 Tap and drag the Ringer and Alerts slider to set the volume. 
 When the Change with Buttons switch is On (), you can change the Ringer and Alerts volume by pressing the volume buttons on the side of the iPhone. 
 Tap Ringtone.
The Ringtone screen appears.
 Tap the ringtone you want to hear. 
 You can tap Tone Store to browse and buy ringtones. 
 Tap Vibration.

The Vibration screen appears.
 Tap the vibration pattern you want. 
 If you prefer a custom vibration, tap Create New Vibration in the Custom area.
The New Vibration screen appears.
 Tap a rhythm.
 Tap Stop.
 Tap Play to play back the vibration. 
 Tap Save.

The New Vibration dialog opens.
 Type a name. 
 Tap Save.
The Vibration screen appears. 
 Tap Ringtone ().
The Ringtone screen appears. 
 Tap Sounds & Haptics ().
The Sounds & Haptics screen appears.
 Repeat steps 7 to 19 to set other tones, such as text tones.
 Set the Keyboard Clicks switch to On () or Off (), as needed.
 Set the Lock Sounds switch to On () or Off (), as needed.
 Set the System Haptics switch to On () or Off () to control whether your iPhone plays haptics for system controls and touches.

Tip
How do I use different ringtones for different callers?
The ringtone and text tone you set in the Ringtone area of the Sounds & Haptics screen are your standard tone for phone calls, FaceTime calls, and messaging calls. To set different tones for a contact, to display the Home screen tap Phone (), and then tap Contacts. In the Contacts list, tap the contact, tap Edit, and then tap Ringtone. On the Ringtone screen, tap the ringtone and then tap Done. You can also change other settings, such as the Text Tone vibration for the contact. Tap Done when you are finished.




Set Display Brightness and Wallpapers
To make the screen easier to see, you can change its brightness. You can also have the Auto-Brightness feature automatically set the screen's brightness to suit the ambient brightness or turn on Smart Invert Colors to counter bright lighting.
To make the screen look good, you can choose which picture to use as the wallpaper that appears in the background. You can use either a static wallpaper or a dynamic, changing wallpaper. You can set different wallpaper for the lock screen and for the Home screen.

Set Display Brightness and Wallpapers

 Press Home — on an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen — to display the Home screen.
 Tap Settings () to display the Settings screen. 
 Tap Display & Brightness ().
Note: If lighting conditions make the screen hard to see, try Smart Invert Colors. Press Home, tap Settings (), and then tap General (). Tap Accessibility, tap Display Accomodations, tap Invert Colors, and then set the Smart Invert switch to On ().

 Drag the Brightness slider left or right to set brightness.
 Set the Auto-Brightness switch to On () or Off (), as needed.
 Set the Raise to Wake switch to On () if you want the iPhone to wake up when you raise it. 
 You can tap Text Size to set your preferred text size.
 You can set the Bold Text switch to On () to make the system text bold. 
 Tap Settings ().
The Settings screen appears again. 
 Tap Wallpaper ().
The Wallpaper screen appears. 
 Tap Choose a New Wallpaper.

 Tap Dynamic, Stills, or Live in the Apple Wallpaper area. This example uses Stills. 
 To choose a picture from a different picture category, tap that category. 
 Tap the wallpaper you want to use.

The Wallpaper Preview screen appears.
 Tap Still if you want the image to have no perspective. Tap Perspective if you want it to have perspective, as if there is depth between the icons and the wallpaper.
 Tap Set.
 Tap Set Lock Screen, Set Home Screen, or Set Both. Tap Cancel if you do not want to proceed. 
 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears.
If you changed the Home screen wallpaper, the new wallpaper appears.
Note: To see the lock screen wallpaper, press Power/Sleep twice.

Tip
How do I use only part of a picture as the wallpaper?
The Apple wallpapers are the right size for the screen, so you do not need to resize them. But when you use a photo for the wallpaper, you usually need to choose which part of it to display. When you choose a photo as wallpaper, the iPhone displays the Move and Scale screen. Pinch in or out to zoom the photo out or in, and tap and drag to move the picture around. When you have chosen the part you want, tap Set.




Configure Night Shift and Display Zoom
Blue light from the screens of devices can prevent or disrupt your body's sleep, so the iPhone includes a feature called Night Shift that reduces blue light from the screen. You can configure Night Shift to run automatically each night, manually enable it until the next day, and adjust the color temperature to look more or less warm.
On large-screen iPhones, you can choose whether to zoom the display in to a larger size or to keep it at the standard size.

Configure Night Shift and Display Zoom

 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Settings ().
The Settings screen appears. 
 Tap Display & Brightness ().

The Display & Brightness screen appears. 
 Tap Night Shift.
The Night Shift screen appears.
 Drag the Color Temperature slider along the Less Warm-More Warm axis to set the color temperature you want for Night Shift. 
 You can set the Manually Enable Until Tomorrow switch to On () to enable Night Shift immediately.
 Set the Scheduled switch to On () to run Night Shift each night. 
 Tap From, To.

The Schedule screen appears.
 Tap Sunset to Sunrise if you want Night Shift to follow sunset and sunrise times for your location; go to step 11. Otherwise, tap Custom Schedule.
 Tap Turn On At and set the time.
 Tap Turn Off At and set the time. 
 Tap Night Shift ().
The Night Shift screen appears. 
 Tap Display & Brightness ().
The Display & Brightness screen appears. 
 Tap View in the Display Zoom area.
The Display Zoom screen appears. 
 Tap the unselected tab.

The preview shows the zoom effect.
 You can swipe left or tap a dot to change the preview. The second preview shows Messages. The third preview shows Mail. 
 Tap Set.
The Changing Display Zoom Will Restart iPhone dialog opens. 
 Tap Use Zoomed or Use Standard, depending on which button appears.
Your iPhone restarts, but you do not need to unlock it again.
The display appears with the zoom effect you chose.

Tip
How does Night Shift know when sunset and sunrise are?
Your iPhone uses Location Services to determine your location, and then looks up the sunset time and sunrise time online. If you disable Location Services, you will need to turn on Night Shift on a custom schedule or manually.




Choose Privacy and Location Settings
Your iPhone contains a huge amount of information about you, the people you communicate with, what you do, and where you go. To keep this information safe, you need to choose suitable privacy and location settings.
Privacy settings enable you to control which apps can access your contacts, calendars, reminders, and photos. You can also choose which apps can use your iPhone's location services, and which track the iPhone's location via the Global Positioning System, or GPS.

Choose Privacy and Location Settings

 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Settings ().
The Settings screen appears. 
 Tap Privacy ().
Note: To limit how ads can track your iPhone usage, tap Advertising at the bottom of the Privacy screen. On the Advertising screen, set the Limit Ad Tracking switch to On (). Tap Reset Advertising Identifier and then tap Reset Identifier in the confirmation dialog.

The Privacy screen appears. 
 Tap the app or service you want to configure. This example uses Photos ().
The screen for the app or service appears.
 For each app, tap the switch to display the app's screen, tap Never to prevent access or Read and Write to allow access, and then tap Back (). 
 Tap Privacy ().
The Privacy screen appears.
 Configure other apps and services as needed. 
 Tap Location Services.

The Location Services screen appears.
 If you need to turn location services off completely, set the Location Services switch to Off (). Usually, you would leave it set to On ().
 Tap the app or feature you want to configure. 
 In the Allow Location Access box, tap the appropriate button, such as While Using the App or Never.
Note: The buttons in the Allow Location Access box vary depending on the app or feature. 
 Tap Location Services ().
The Location Services screen appears again.
 Set location access for other apps and features. 
 Tap System Services.

The System Services screen appears.
 Set the switch for each system service to On () or Off (), as needed. For example, set the set the Location-Based Apple Ads switch to Off () to turn off ads based on your location.
 Set the Status Bar Icon switch to On () to see the Location Services icon in the status bar when an app requests your location.

Tip
Why do some apps need to use Location Services?
Some apps and system services need to use Location Services to determine where you are. For example, the Maps app requires Location Services to display your location, and the Compass service needs your location to display accurate compass information.
If you allow the Camera app to use Location Services, it stores GPS data in your photos. You can then sort the photos by location in applications such as Photos on the Mac. Other apps use Location Services to provide context-specific information, such as information about nearby restaurants. For privacy, review the apps using Location Services and turn off any you prefer not to have this information.




Configure and Use Search
Your iPhone can put a huge amount of data in the palm of your hand, and you may often need to search to find what you need.
To make your search results more accurate and helpful, you can configure the Search feature. You can turn off searching for items you do not want to see in your search results.

Configure and Use Search


Configure Search 
 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Settings ().
The Settings screen appears. 
 Tap Siri & Search ().

The Siri & Search screen appears. 
 Swipe up to scroll down the screen.
The Siri Suggestions section appears.
 Set the Suggestions in Search switch to On () if you want to see Spotlight suggestions when you search.
 Set the Suggestions in Look Up switch to On () if you want to see Spotlight suggestions when you use Look Up. 
 In the list of apps, tap the app you want to configure. This example uses Calendar ().

 Set the Search & Siri Suggestions switch to On () if you want Calendar content to appear in Search and Look Up and for Siri to access your Calendar data. 
 Set the Find Events in Other Apps switch to On () if you want iOS to try to identify events.
Note: The Find in Other Apps switch appears for only some apps. Its name varies depending on the app. For example, the Find Contacts in Other Apps switch appears for the Contacts app. 
 Tap Back ().
The Siri & Search screen appears again, and you can configure other apps.



Search for Items Using Search 
 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap near the top of the screen and pull down.
 The Search panel appears, with the insertion point in it.
Note: You can also start a search by swiping right from the Home screen and then tapping the Search box at the top of the screen.
The keyboard appears. 
 Type your search term.
A list of results appears.
 Tap the result you want to view.

Tip
Which items should I search?
This depends on what you need to be able to search for. For example, if you do not need to search for music, videos, or podcasts, you can exclude the Music apps, the Videos app, and the Podcasts app from Siri & Search Suggestions.





Choose Locking and Control Center Settings
After a period of inactivity whose length you can configure, your iPhone automatically locks itself. It then turns off its screen and goes to sleep to save battery power. Setting your iPhone to lock itself quickly helps preserve battery power, but you may prefer to leave your iPhone on longer so that you can continue work, and then lock your iPhone manually. You can also choose which controls to display in Control Center and the order in which they appear.

Choose Locking and Control Center Settings

 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Settings ().
The Settings screen appears. 
 Tap Display & Brightness ().
Note: If your iPhone is managed by an administrator, you may not be able to set all the options explained here. For example, an administrator may prevent you from disabling automatic locking for security reasons.

The Display & Brightness screen appears. 
 Tap Auto-Lock.
The Auto-Lock screen appears. 
 Tap the interval — for example, 1 Minute.
Note: Choose Never for Auto-Lock if you need to make sure your iPhone never goes to sleep. For example, if you are playing music with the lyrics displayed, turning off auto-locking may be helpful. 
 Tap Display & Brightness ().
The Display & Brightness screen appears again. 
 Tap Settings ().

The Settings screen appears again. 
 Tap Control Center ().
The Control Center screen appears.
 The Include section shows the controls currently in Control Center that you can remove.
 The More Controls section shows controls you can add to Control Center. 
 To remove a control from Control Center, tap Remove (), and then tap the textual Remove button that appears.
Note: You can also remove a control by dragging it from the Include list to the More Controls list. 
 To add a control to Control Center, tap Add (). 

 The control moves to the Include list.
 To change the order of controls in Control Center, drag a control up or down by its handle (). 
 When you finish customizing Control Center, tap Settings ().
The Settings screen appears again.

Tip
How do I put the iPhone to sleep manually?
You can put the iPhone to sleep at any point by pressing Power/Sleep for a moment.
Putting the iPhone to sleep as soon as you stop using it helps to prolong battery life. If you apply a passcode or other means of locking, as discussed in the section "Secure Your iPhone with Touch ID or Face ID," later in this chapter, putting the iPhone to sleep also starts protecting your data sooner.




Set Up and Use Do Not Disturb Mode
When you do not want your iPhone to disturb you, turn on its Do Not Disturb Mode. You can configure Do Not Disturb Mode to turn on and off automatically at set times each day — for example, on at 10 p.m. and off at 7 a.m. You can turn Do Not Disturb Mode on and off manually from Control Center.
You can allow particular groups of contacts to bypass Do Not Disturb Mode so they can contact you even when Do Not Disturb is on. You can also allow repeated calls to ring when Do Not Disturb is on.

Set Up and Use Do Not Disturb Mode


Configure Do Not Disturb Mode 
 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Settings ().
The Settings screen appears. 
 Tap Do Not Disturb (). 

 You can turn on Do Not Disturb by setting the Do Not Disturb switch to On ().
Note: You can turn Do Not Disturb on and off more easily from Control Center. See the first tip.
 Set the Scheduled switch to On ().
 Tap From, To.
 Tap From.
 Use the spin wheels to set the From time.
 Tap To.
 Set the To time. 
 Tap Do Not Disturb ().
The Do Not Disturb screen appears again.

 In the Silence section, tap Always or While iPhone is locked, as needed. 
 Tap Allow Calls From.
The Allow Calls From screen appears.
 Tap the group you will allow to call you during your quiet hours. 
 Tap Do Not Disturb ().
The Do Not Disturb screen appears again.
 Set the Repeated Calls switch to On () or Off (), as needed. 
 Tap Settings ().
The Settings screen appears again.



Turn Do Not Disturb Mode On or Off Manually 
 Press Home.
The Home screen appears.
Note: On an iPhone X, swipe down from the upper-right corner of the screen to open Control Center. 
 Swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
Control Center opens.
 Tap Do Not Disturb to turn Do Not Disturb on (  changes to ) or off (  changes to ).

Tips
How can I tell whether Do Not Disturb is on?
When Do Not Disturb is on, a crescent moon symbol appears in the status bar to the left of the battery readout. 
How can I allow multiple groups of people to call me when Do Not Disturb is on?
The Allow Calls From screen lets you select only one group. Unless you can put all the relevant contacts into a single group, the best solution is to create a new group and add the existing groups to it. This is easiest to do in your iCloud account by working in a web browser on a computer.





Customize Today View
Today View, which you display by swiping right on the first Home screen, shows a list of widgets to provide you with quick information about the weather, the news, and your time commitments. You can configure Today View by removing widgets you do not need, adding widgets you find useful, and arranging the widgets into the order you find most helpful.

Customize Today View

 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears.
Note: If the first Home screen does not appear when you press Home, press Home again — on an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen — to display it. 
 Swipe right.
Today View appears. 
 Swipe up to scroll down to the bottom of the screen.

More items in Today View appear. 
 Tap Edit.
The Add Widgets screen appears. 
 Tap Remove () to the left of a widget you want to remove.

The textual Remove button appears. 
 Tap Remove.
The widget disappears from the list. 
 Swipe up.
The More Widgets list appears. 
 Tap Add () to the left of a widget you want to add to Today View.

The widget appears in the upper list.
 Tap a widget's handle () and drag up or down to rearrange the widgets. 
 Tap Done.
Today View appears, showing the widgets in the order you specified.

Tip
How do I get more widgets to add to Today View?
The widgets in Today View come built into apps, so the only way to get more widgets is to install more apps that have widgets.
When choosing an app to add to your iPhone, consider whether the app is one for which a widget in Today View would be useful. If so, look for an app that offers a widget.




Secure Your iPhone with Touch ID or Face ID
Apple provides two methods of unlocking your iPhone quickly: Face ID on the iPhone X, and Touch ID on all other current models. Face ID uses cameras to scan your face, while Touch ID uses a scanner built into the Home button to scan your fingerprint. For either Face ID or Touch ID, you create a passcode as a backup method of unlocking your iPhone. For added security, you can set your iPhone to automatically erase its data after ten failed attempts to enter the passcode.

Secure Your iPhone with Touch ID or Face ID

 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Settings ().
The Settings screen appears. 
 Tap Touch ID & Passcode ().
Note: This section shows an iPhone without either Touch ID or a passcode set up. Normally, you would set up either a passcode or Touch ID and a passcode during initial setup.
The Touch ID & Passcode screen appears.
 To set up Touch ID, tap Add a Fingerprint and follow the prompts. You can then set the iPhone Unlock switch, the Apple Pay switch, and the iTunes & App Store switch to On () or Off (), as needed. 
 Tap Turn Passcode On. 

 To change the passcode type, you can tap Passcode Options and then tap Custom Alphanumeric Code, Custom Numeric Code, or 4-Digit Numeric Code. 
 Type your passcode.
The iPhone displays the message Verify Your New Passcode. 
 Type the passcode again.
The Apple ID Password dialog opens. 
 If you want to be able to use your passcode to change your Apple ID from your iPhone, type your passcode and tap Continue. If not, tap Cancel.

The Touch ID & Passcode screen appears. 
 If you have applied a passcode but not a fingerprint, tap Require Passcode.
The Require Passcode screen appears. 
 Tap the button for the length of time you want — for example, Immediately or After 1 minute.
Note: After you apply a fingerprint, the only choice on the Require Passcode screen is Immediately. 
 Tap Touch ID & Passcode ().

The Touch ID & Passcode screen appears.
 Set the Voice Dial switch to On () or Off (), as needed. 
 In the Allow Access When Locked area, set the switches to On () or Off (), as needed.
Note: Allowing access to Wallet when your iPhone is locked enables you to make payments and reach boarding passes and similar documents more quickly when you need them. 
 If you want the iPhone to erase all its data after ten failed passcode attempts, set the Erase Data switch to On ().
The iPhone displays a confirmation dialog.
 Tap Enable.

Tips
Which type of passcode should I use?
The default, a six-digit numeric passcode, provides reasonably good security and is easy to enter. But if you need strong security, choose Custom Numeric Code and use 12 or more digits. For extra-strong security, choose Custom Alphanumeric Code and create a passcode of 12 or more characters, including upper- and lowercase letters, numbers, and symbols. 
What Require Passcode setting should I choose?
Choose Immediately for greatest security. Choose After 1 minute for good security but more convenience.




Configure Restrictions and Parental Controls
Like any other computer that can access the Internet, the iPhone can reach vast amounts of content not suitable for children or business contexts. You can restrict the iPhone from accessing particular kinds of content. You can use the restrictions to implement parental controls — for example, preventing the iPhone's user from buying content in apps or watching adult-rated movies.

Configure Restrictions and Parental Controls

 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Settings ().
The Settings screen appears. 
 Tap General ().
The General screen appears. 
 Tap Restrictions.

The Restrictions screen appears. 
 Tap Enable Restrictions.
The Set Passcode screen appears.
Note: The passcode you set to protect restrictions is different from the passcode you use to lock the iPhone. Do not use the same code. 
 Type the passcode.
Note: The iPhone shows dots instead of your passcode digits in case someone is watching.
The iPhone displays the Set Passcode screen again, this time with the message Re-enter Your Restrictions Passcode. 
 Type the passcode again.

 In the Allow area, set each switch to On () or Off (), as needed.
 Scroll down to the Allowed Content area.
 If you need to change the country used for rating content, tap Ratings For. On the Ratings For screen, tap the country, and then tap Restrictions (). 
 You can tap Password Settings to choose whether to require a password for each purchase or only after a 15-minute interval, and whether to require a password for free downloads. 
 Choose settings for Music, Podcasts, News & iTunes U, Movies, TV Shows, Books, Apps, Siri, and Websites. For example, tap Movies.

 Tap the highest rating you will permit.
 Set the Show Movies in the Cloud switch to Off () if you want to restrict the iPhone to playing movies in the TV app's library.
 Tap Restrictions ().
 Set the In-App Purchases switch to Off () to prevent the user from making in-app purchases. See the first tip.
 Choose other settings in the Privacy section.
 Choose settings in the Allow Changes section.
 Set the Multiplayer Games switch, the Adding Friends switch, and the Screen Recording switch to On () or Off (), as needed.

Tips
What are in-app purchases?
In-app purchases are items you can buy directly from within apps. These are a popular and easy way for developers to sell extra features for apps, especially low-cost apps or free apps. They are also an easy way for the iPhone's user to spend money. 
What do the Privacy settings in Restrictions do?
The Privacy settings in Restrictions enable you to control which apps can access the iPhone's location information, contacts, and other apps, and whether the user can change the settings.




Set Up Family Sharing and Add Members
Apple's Family Sharing feature enables you to share purchases from Apple's online services with other family members. You can also share photos and calendars, and you can use the Find My iPhone feature to find your iOS devices and Macs when they go missing.
This section assumes that you are the Family organizer, the person who gets to set up Family Sharing; invite others to participate; and pay for the content they buy on the iTunes Store, the iBooks Store, and the App Store.
 
Set Up Family Sharing
 
To set up Family Sharing, press Home — on an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen — and then tap Settings () to open the Settings app. Tap Apple ID — the button bearing your Apple ID name — at the top of the Settings screen to display the Apple ID screen, and then tap Set Up Family Sharing () to display the Family Sharing screen.
Tap Get Started to display the Family Setup screen. Here, you can tap add photo to add your photo if it is missing, or tap Not [your name] or want to use a different ID? to switch to a different Apple ID. When the Apple ID is correct, tap Continue to display the Share Purchases screen. 
 
Sign in using the Apple ID you will use for sharing the items you buy on the iTunes Store, the iBooks Store, and the App Store. Tap Next to display the Terms and Conditions screen; read them and then tap Agree if you want to proceed. Tap Agree again in the Terms and Conditions dialog that opens.
On the Payment Method screen, verify that the correct payment card number appears, and then tap Continue. On the Share Your Location with Your Family screen, tap Share Your Location and follow the prompts if you want your family to be able to track you and your devices, or tap Not Now if you prefer privacy.
You have now enabled Family Sharing on your account. The Family Sharing screen appears, and you can add a family member to Family Sharing as explained in the next section.

 
Add a Family Member to Family Sharing
 
To add a family member, first display the Family Sharing screen in the Settings app. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen; on other iPhone models, press Home. Tap Settings (), tap Apple ID — the button bearing your Apple ID name — and then tap Family Sharing.
Next, tap Family Sharing () to display the Family Sharing screen. Tap Add Family Member to display the Add Family Member screen. In the To box, start typing the e-mail address, and then tap the matching contact record for the family member; if there is none, finish typing the e-mail address. Tap Next.
If the Verify Security Code screen appears, enter your card's security code and then tap Next. Then, on the Add Family Member screen that appears, either tap Ask [Name] to Enter Password and have the family member enter her Apple ID and password on your iPhone, or tap Send an Invitation to send an invitation via e-mail.

 
Accept an Invitation to Family Sharing
 
When someone sends you an invitation to Family Sharing, tap Get Started in the e-mail message. If you are using an iOS device, the Family Sharing Invitation screen appears, and you can simply tap Accept to accept the invitation.
If you do not want to accept the invitation, tap Decline instead.



Choose Date, Time, and International Settings
To keep yourself on time and your data accurate, you need to make sure the iPhone is using the correct date and time.
To make dates, times, and other data appear in the formats you prefer, you may need to change the iPhone's International settings.

Choose Date, Time, and International Settings


Choose Date and Time Settings 
 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Settings ().
The Settings screen appears. 
 Tap General ().

The General screen appears. 
 Tap Date & Time.
The Date & Time screen appears.
 Set the 24-Hour Time switch to On () if you want to use 24-hour times.
 To set the date and time manually, set the Set Automatically switch to Off (). 
 Tap the bar that shows the current date and time.
Controls for setting the date and time appear.
 Use the controls to set the date and time. 
 Tap General ().
The General screen appears.



Choose International Settings 
 From the General screen, tap Language & Region.
The Language & Region screen appears.
 The Region Format Example area shows examples of the time, date, currency, and number formats for the current region. 
 Tap iPhone Language.

The iPhone Language screen appears.
 Tap the language you want to use. 
 Tap Done.
The Language & Region screen appears. 
 Tap Region.
The Region screen appears.
 Tap the region you want. 
 Tap Done.
The Language & Region screen appears.
Tip
How does my iPhone set the date and time automatically?
Your iPhone sets the date and time automatically by using time servers, computers on the Internet that provide date and time information to computers that request it. The iPhone automatically determines its geographical location so it can request the right time zone from the time server.











Chapter 3
Using Voice, Accessibility, and Continuity


Your iPhone includes the Siri personal assistant, helpful accessibility features, and integration with your Mac and Apple Watch via the Continuity feature. 
Give Commands with Siri
Dictate Text Using Siri
Gather and Share Information with Siri
Configure Siri to Work Your Way
Set Up VoiceOver to Identify Items On-Screen
Configure Other Accessibility Features
Using Your iPhone with Your Mac
Using Your iPhone with Your Apple Watch


Give Commands with Siri
Often, speaking is even easier than using your iPhone's touch screen — especially when you are out and about or on the move. The powerful Siri feature enables you to take essential actions by using your voice to tell your iPhone what you want. Siri requires a fast Internet connection because the speech recognition runs on servers in Apple's data center.
You can use Siri either with the iPhone's built-in microphone or with the microphone on a headset. The built-in microphone works well in a quiet environment or if you hold your iPhone close to your face, but in noisy situations you will do better with a headset microphone.
 
Open Siri
 
You can open Siri from the Home screen or any app. On the iPhone X, press and hold Sleep/Wake for several seconds. On other iPhone models, press and hold Home for several seconds. If you have connected a headset with a clicker button, you can also press and hold the headset clicker button for several seconds to invoke Siri. If you have chosen to allow Siri access when your iPhone is locked, you can also activate Siri while the lock screen is displayed.
The Siri screen appears. A tone indicates that Siri is ready to take your commands. If you enable the "Hey Siri" feature in the Settings app, you can also activate Siri by saying "Hey Siri."

 
Send an E-Mail Message
 
Say "E-mail" and the contact's name, followed by the message. Siri creates an e-mail message to the contact and enters the text. Review the message, and then tap Send to send it.
If you prefer, you can start the message by saying "E-mail" and the contact's name, and then pausing. Siri then prompts you for the subject and text of the message in turn.

 
Set an Alarm
 
Say "Set an alarm for 4:30 a.m." and check the alarm that Siri displays.
You can turn the alarm off by tapping its switch (  changes to ).
You can ask a question such as "Which alarms do I have set?" to make Siri display a list of your alarms.

 
Set a Reminder for Yourself
 
Say "Remind me" and the details of what you want Siri to remind you of. For example, say "Remind me to take my iPad to work tomorrow morning." Siri listens to what you say and creates a reminder. Check what Siri has written. If the reminder is correct, simply leave it; if not, tap Remove and then try again.

 
Send a Text Message
 
Say "Tell" and the contact's name. When Siri responds, say the message you want to send. For example, say "Tell Victor Kemp" and then "I'm stuck in traffic, so I'll be about 10 minutes late to the meeting. Please start without me." Siri creates a text message to the contact, enters the text, and sends the message when you say "Send" or tap Send.
You can also say "tell" and the contact's name followed immediately by the message. For example, "Tell Bill Sykes the package will arrive at 10 a.m."

 
Set Up a Meeting
 
Say "Meet with" and the contact's name, followed by brief details of the appointment. For example, say "Meet with Don Williamson at noon on Friday for lunch." Siri listens and warns you of any scheduling conflict. Siri then sends a meeting invitation to the contact if it finds an e-mail address, and adds the meeting to your calendar after you tap Confirm or say "Confirm."



Dictate Text Using Siri
One of Siri's strongest features is the capability to transcribe your speech quickly and accurately into correctly spelled and punctuated text. Using your iPhone, you can dictate into any app that supports the keyboard, so you can dictate e-mail messages, notes, documents, and more. To dictate, simply tap the microphone icon (), speak after Siri beeps, and then tap Done.
To get the most out of dictation, it is helpful to know the standard terms for dictating punctuation, capitalization, symbols, layout, and formatting.
 
Insert Punctuation
 
To insert punctuation, use standard terms: "comma," "period" (or "full stop"), "semicolon," "colon," "exclamation point" (or "exclamation mark"), "question mark," "hyphen," "dash" (for a short dash, -), or "em dash" (for a long dash, —). You can also say "asterisk" (*), "ampersand" (&), "open parenthesis" and "close parenthesis," "open bracket" and "close bracket," and "underscore" (_).
For example, say "buy eggs comma bread comma and cheese semicolon and maybe some milk period nothing else exclamation point" to enter the text shown here.

 
Insert Standard Symbols
 
To insert symbols, use these terms: "at sign" (@), "percent" (%), "greater than" (>) and "less than" (<), "forward slash" (/) and "backslash" (\ ), "registered sign" (®), and "copyright sign" (©).
For example, say "fifty-eight percent forward slash two greater than ninety-seven percent forward slash three" to enter the computation shown here.

 
Insert Currency Symbols
 
To insert currency symbols, say the currency name and "sign." For example, say "dollar sign" to insert $, "cent sign" to insert ¢, "euro sign" to insert €, "pound sterling sign" to insert £, and "yen sign" to insert ¥.
For example, say "convert dollar sign two hundred to UK pounds sterling" to enter the calculation shown here.

 
Control Layout
 
You can control text layout by creating new lines and new paragraphs as needed. A new paragraph enters two line breaks, creating a blank line between paragraphs. To create a new line, say "new line." To create a new paragraph, say "new paragraph."
For example, say "dear Anna comma new paragraph thank you for the parrot period new paragraph it's the most amazing gift I've ever had period" to enter the text shown here.

 
Control Capitalization
 
You can apply capitalization to the first letter of a word or to a whole word. You can also switch capitalization off temporarily to force lowercase:
Say "cap" to capitalize the first letter of the next word.
Say "caps on" to capitalize all the words until you say "caps off."
Say "no caps" to prevent automatic capitalization of the next word — for example, "no caps Monday" produces "monday" instead of "Monday."
Say "no caps on" to force lowercase of all words until you say "no caps off."
For example, say "give the cap head cap dining cap table a no caps french polish period" to enter the text shown here.

 
Insert Quotes and Emoticons
 
To insert double quotes, say "open quotes" and "close quotes." To insert single quotes, say "open single quotes" and "close single quotes." To enter standard emoticons, say "smiley face," "frown face," and "wink face."
For example, say "she said comma open quotes I want to go to Paris next summer exclamation point close quotes" to enter the text shown here.



Gather and Share Information with Siri
You can use Siri to research a wide variety of information online — everything from sports and movies to restaurants worth visiting or worth avoiding. You can also use Siri to perform hands-free calculations. When you need to share information quickly and easily, you can turn to Siri. By giving the right commands, you can quickly change your Facebook status or post on your wall. Similarly, you can send tweets on your Twitter account.
 
Find Information About Sports
 
Launch Siri and ask a question about sports. For example:
"Siri, when's the next White Sox game?"
"Did the Lakers win their last game?"
"When's the end of the NBA season?"
"Can you show me the roster for the Maple Leafs?"

 
Find Information About Movies
 
Launch Siri and ask a question about movies. For example:
"Siri, where is the movie The Book of Henry playing in Indianapolis?"
"What's the name of Blake Lively's latest movie?"
"Who's the star of My Cousin Rachel?"
"Is Cars 3 any good?"

 
Find a Restaurant
 
Launch Siri, and then tell Siri what type of restaurant you want. For example:
"Where's the best Mexican food in Palo Alto?"
"Where can I get sushi in Albuquerque?"
"Is there a brewpub in Minneapolis?"
"Is there any dim sum within 50 miles of here?"

 
Address a Query to the Wolfram Alpha Computational Knowledge Engine
 
Launch Siri, and then say "Wolfram" and your query. For example:
"Wolfram, minus 20 centigrade in Kelvin."
"Wolfram, what is the cube of 27?"
"Wolfram, tangent of 60 degrees."
"Wolfram, give me the chemical formula for hydrogen peroxide."

 
Find Out What Music You Are Listening To
 
Launch Siri and ask a question such as "What song is this?" or "Do you know what this music is called?" Siri monitors the microphone's input, consults the Shazam music-recognition service, and returns a result if there is a match.

 
Translate to Another Language
 
Launch Siri, and then say "Translate to" and the name of the language, such as "Translate to Spanish." When Siri prompts you for the text, speak it. Siri announces the translated text and displays it on-screen, together with a Play button () that you can tap to play the audio again.



Configure Siri to Work Your Way
To get the most out of Siri, spend a few minutes configuring Siri. You can set the language Siri uses and choose when Siri should give you voice feedback. You can also decide whether to use the Raise to Speak option, which activates Siri when you raise your iPhone to your face.
Most important, you can tell Siri which contact record contains your information, so that Siri knows your name, address, phone numbers, e-mail address, and other essential information.

Configure Siri to Work Your Way

 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Settings ().
The Settings screen appears. 
 Tap Siri & Search ().

The Siri & Search screen appears.
 Set the Listen for "Hey Siri" switch on On () if you want to be able to activate Siri by saying "Hey Siri!"
 Set the Press for Siri switch to On () if you want to be able to summon Siri by pressing and holding the Home button.
 Set the Allow Siri When Locked switch to On () if you want to use Siri from the lock screen. 
 Tap Language.
The Language screen appears.
 Tap the language you want to use. 
 Tap Siri & Search ().
The Siri & Search screen appears again. 
 Tap Siri Voice.

The Siri Voice screen appears.
 In the Accent box, tap the accent you want Siri to use. For example, for English (United States), you can tap American, Australian, or British.
 In the Gender box, tap Male or Female, as needed. 
 Tap Siri & Search ().
The Siri & Search screen appears again. 
 Tap Voice Feedback.

The Voice Feedback screen appears.
 Tap Always On, Control with Ring Switch, or Hands-Free Only, as needed. 
 Tap Siri & Search ().
The Siri & Search screen appears again. 
 Tap My Info.
The Contacts screen appears, showing either the All Contacts list or the groups you have selected.
Note: If necessary, click Groups to display the Groups screen, select the groups you need, and then tap Done.
 Tap the contact record that contains your information.

Tip
Does Apple store the details of what I ask Siri?
Yes, but not in a way that will come back to haunt you. When you use Siri, your iPhone passes your input to servers in Apple's data center in North Carolina, USA, for processing. The servers analyze your request and tell Siri how to respond to it. Apple's data center stores the details of your request and may analyze them to determine what people use Siri for and work out ways of making Siri more effective. Apple does not associate your Siri data with other data Apple holds about you — for example, the identity and credit card data you used to pay for iTunes Match.




Set Up VoiceOver to Identify Items On-Screen
If you have trouble identifying the iPhone's controls on-screen, you can use the VoiceOver feature to read them to you. VoiceOver changes your iPhone's standard finger gestures so that you tap to select the item whose name you want it to speak, double-tap to activate an item, and flick three fingers to scroll.
VoiceOver can make your iPhone easier to use. Your iPhone also includes other accessibility features, which you can learn about in the next section, "Configure Other Accessibility Features."

Set Up VoiceOver to Identify Items On-Screen

 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Settings ().
The Settings screen appears. 
 Tap General ().
The General screen appears. 
 Tap Accessibility.

The Accessibility screen appears. 
 Tap VoiceOver.
Note: You cannot use VoiceOver and Zoom at the same time. If Zoom is on when you try to switch VoiceOver on, your iPhone prompts you to choose which of the two to use.
The VoiceOver screen appears.
 Set the VoiceOver switch to On (  changes to ). 
 Tap VoiceOver Practice.
A selection border appears around the button, and VoiceOver speaks its name. 
 Double-tap VoiceOver Practice.

The VoiceOver Practice screen appears.
 Practice tapping, double-tapping, triple-tapping, swiping, and flicking. VoiceOver identifies each gesture and displays an explanation. 
 Tap Done to select the button, and then double-tap Done.
The VoiceOver screen appears again. 
 Swipe up with three fingers.
The screen scrolls down.
 Tap Speaking Rate to select it, and then swipe up or down to adjust the rate. Swiping up or down is the VoiceOver gesture for adjusting the slider. 
 Tap Speech and choose voice, pronunciations, and pitch options on the Speech screen.

 Tap Verbosity and choose which items to have VoiceOver announce.
 Set the Always Speak Notifications switch to On () or Off (), as needed.
 Tap Double-tap Timeout and set the timeout for double-tapping.
 Tap Typing Feedback to select it, and then double-tap.
 In the Software Keyboards area, tap and then double-tap the feedback type you want: Nothing, Characters, Words, or Characters and Words.
 In the Hardware Keyboards area, tap and then double-tap the feedback type you want: Nothing, Characters, Words, or Characters and Words.

Tip
Is there an easy way to turn VoiceOver on and off?
Yes. You can set your iPhone to toggle VoiceOver on or off when you press Home three times in rapid sequence. At the bottom of the Accessibility screen, tap Accessibility Shortcut to display the Accessibility Shortcut screen. In the Triple-Click the Home Button For list, tap VoiceOver, placing a check mark next to it. Tap Accessibility () to return to the Accessibility screen.




Configure Other Accessibility Features
If you have trouble using your iPhone in its default configuration, explore the other accessibility features that your iPhone offers apart from VoiceOver.
To help you see the screen better, iOS provides a full-featured zoom capability. After turning on zooming, you can display the Zoom Controller to give yourself easy control of zoom, choose the zoom region, and set the maximum zoom level. You can then triple-tap the screen to zoom in and out quickly.

Configure Other Accessibility Features


Display the Accessibility Screen and Configure Zoom Settings 
 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Settings ().
The Settings screen appears. 
 Tap General ().
The General screen appears.
Note: Apart from the accessibility features explained in this section, your iPhone supports physical accessibility features such as Switch Control and AssistiveTouch. Switch Control enables you to control your iPhone through a physical switch you connect to it. AssistiveTouch lets you use an adaptive accessory to touch the screen. 
 Tap Accessibility.

The Accessibility screen appears. 
 Tap Zoom.
The Zoom screen appears.
 Set the Zoom switch to On (  changes to ). 
 The Zoom window appears if the Zoom Region is set to Window Zoom.
 Set the Follow Focus switch to On () to make the zoomed area follow the focus on-screen.
 Set the Smart Typing switch to On () to make iOS switch to Window Zoom when a keyboard appears, so that text is zoomed but the keyboard is regular size. 
 Set the Show Controller switch to On (). 

 The Zoom Controller () appears. 
 Tap Idle Visibility.
The Idle Visibility screen appears.
 Drag the slider to set the visibility percentage for the Zoom Controller when it is idle. 
 Tap Zoom ().
The Zoom screen appears again.
 Tap Zoom Region to display the Zoom Region screen; tap Full Screen Zoom or Window Zoom, as needed; and then tap Zoom (). 
 Tap Zoom Filter.

The Zoom Filter screen appears.
 Tap None, Inverted, Grayscale, Grayscale Inverted, or Low Light, as needed. 
 Tap Zoom ().
The Zoom screen appears again.
 Drag the Maximum Zoom Level slider to set the maximum zoom level, such as 8×. 
 Tap Accessibility ().
The Accessibility screen appears.

Tip
Is there an easy way to turn the Zoom feature on and off?
Yes. You can set your iPhone to toggle Zoom on or off when you press Home three times in rapid sequence. At the bottom of the Accessibility screen, tap Accessibility Shortcut to display the Accessibility Shortcut screen. In the Triple-Click the Home Button For list, tap Zoom, placing a check mark next to it, and then tap Accessibility (). You can also use the Home triple-press to toggle the VoiceOver feature, the Invert Colors feature, the Grayscale feature, the Switch Control feature, or the AssistiveTouch feature.





Your iPhone includes several "display accommodations" to make the screen easier to view. These accommodations include inverting the screen colors, reducing the white point to lessen the intensity of bright colors, and applying color filters for grayscale or for the protanopia, deuteranopia, or tritanopia color blindnesses.
You can also configure visual interface accessibility settings to make items easier to see. For example, you can set a larger text size, apply shading around text-only buttons, reduce the transparency of items, and darken colors.



Configure Display Accommodations 
 On the Accessibility screen, tap Display Accommodations.
The Display Accommodations screen appears. 
 Tap Invert Colors.
The Invert Colors screen appears. 
 Set the Smart Invert switch to On () if you want to invert the colors except for images, media files, and dark-themed apps.
Note: Enabling Invert Colors disables Night Shift.
 Set the Classic Invert switch to On () if you want to invert all the colors, as in this example. 
 Tap Display Accommodations ().

The Display Accommodations screen appears again.
 Set the Reduce White Point switch to On () if you want to reduce the intensity of bright colors.
 Drag the slider to adjust the white point. 
 Tap Color Filters.
The Color Filters screen appears.
 The color chart displays colors using the filtering you apply. Swipe left for other charts. 
 Set the Color Filters switch to On ().
The list of color filters appears.
 Tap the filter you want to apply: Grayscale, Red/Green Filter, Green/Red Filter, Blue/Yellow Filter, or Color Tint.
 If the Intensity slider appears, drag it to adjust the intensity.
 For Color Tint, drag the Hue slider to adjust the hue.



Configure Visual Interface Accessibility Settings 
 On the Accessibility screen, tap Larger Text.
The Larger Text screen appears.
 Set the Larger Accessibility Sizes switch to On (  changes to ).
 Drag the slider to set the text size. 
 Tap Accessibility ().
The Accessibility screen appears.
 You can set the Bold Text switch to On () to make text appear bold. You must restart your iPhone to effect this change.

 You can set the Button Shapes switch to On () to make underlines appear under button names, as on the General button at the top of the left screen. 
 Tap Increase Contrast.
The Increase Contrast screen appears.
 Set the Reduce Transparency switch to On () or Off (), as needed.
 Set the Darken Colors switch to On () or Off (), as needed. 
 Tap Accessibility ().
The Accessibility screen appears again.
 Set the On/Off Labels switch to On () if you want to display I and O labels on the switches.

Tips
How do I set up a hearing aid with my iPhone?
Tap Hearing Devices on the Accessibility screen to display the Hearing Devices screen. Here you can pair a hearing aid that conforms to the Made for iPhone standard; for other hearing aids, work on the Bluetooth screen, as for other Bluetooth devices. 
What does the Reduce Motion feature do?
Reduce Motion reduces the amount of movement that occurs when you tilt the iPhone when displaying a screen such as the Home screen, where the icons appear to float above the background.





Your iPhone includes a suite of interaction features designed to make it easier for you to interact with the touch screen and other hardware components, such as the accelerometers that detect and analyze the device's movements. Changes you can make include setting the tap-and-hold duration and the repeat interval, adjusting the pressure needed for 3D Touch, and configuring the double- and triple-click speed for the Home button. You can also choose your default audio device for call audio.



Configure Interaction Accessibility Features 
 On the Accessibility screen, tap Touch Accommodations.
The Touch Accommodations screen appears.
 Set the Touch Accommodations switch to On () to enable touch accommodations. 
 Set the Hold Duration switch to On () if you need to adjust the hold duration.
Note: If the Important dialog opens, warning you that Touch Accommodations changes iPhone control gestures, tap OK.

 Tap  +  or - to set the Hold Duration.
 Set the Ignore Repeat switch to On () if your iPhone detects false repeat touches.
 Tap  +  or - to set the Ignore Repeat interval.
 In the Tap Assistance box, tap Off, Use Initial Touch Location, or Use Final Touch Location, as needed.
 Tap Accessibility ().
 Tap 3D Touch. 
 You can set the 3D Touch switch to Off () to disable 3D Touch.
 Drag the 3D Touch Sensitivity slider to Light, Medium, or Firm, as needed. 
 Press the image to test the 3D Touch setting. 
 Tap Accessibility () to display the Accessibility screen again.

 Tap Shake to Undo.
 Set the Shake to Undo switch to Off () if the feature undoes actions by accident.
 Tap Accessibility (). 
 If you want to disable all vibration, tap Vibration, set the Vibration switch on the Vibration screen to Off (), and then tap Accessibility (). 
 Tap Call Audio Routing.

The Call Audio Routing screen appears.
 Tap the audio output device you want to use for phone calls and FaceTime audio calls — for example, tap Bluetooth Headset.
 Tap Auto-Answer Calls and set the Auto-Answer Calls switch On () or Off (), as needed.
 Tap Accessibility ().
 Tap Home Button.
 In the Click Speed section, tap Default, Slow, or Slowest to set the double-click speed.
 In the Press and Hold to Speak section, tap Siri, Voice Control, or Off, as needed.
 Set the Rest Finger to Open switch to On () if you want to unlock the iPhone using Touch ID by resting your finger on the Home button rather than pressing it.

Tip
What are the Speech accessibility settings?
You can have your iPhone speak selected text or the whole screen.To enable these features, tap Speech on the Accessibility screen and then set the Speak Selection switch or the Speak Screen switch to On (). Set the Speak Screen switch to On () to enable swiping down the screen with two fingers to make your iPhone speak all the text on-screen. Tap Voices to choose the speaking voice and drag the Speaking Rate slider to set the speaking speed. To have your iPhone speak what you type, tap Typing Feedback and then choose settings on the Typing Feedback screen.





Using Your iPhone with Your Mac
If you have a Mac, you can enjoy the impressive integration that Apple has built into iOS and the Mac's operating system, now called macOS but formerly called OS X. Apple calls this integration Continuity. Continuity involves several features, including Handoff, which enables you to pick up your work or play seamlessly on one device exactly where you have left it on another device. For example, you can start writing an e-mail message on your Mac and then complete it on your iPhone.

Understanding Which iPhone Models and Mac Models Can Use Continuity
To use Continuity, your iPhone must be running iOS 8 or a later version. Your Mac must be running Yosemite, El Capitan, Sierra, High Sierra, or a later version. Your Mac must have Bluetooth 4.0 hardware. In practice, this includes a Mac mini or MacBook Air from 2011 or later, a MacBook Pro or iMac from 2012 or later, a Mac Pro from 2013 or later, or a MacBook from 2015 or later.

 
Enable Handoff on Your iPhone
 
To enable your iPhone to communicate with your Mac, you need to enable the Handoff feature. Display the Home screen, tap Settings () to open the Settings app, tap General () to display the General screen, and then tap Handoff. On the Handoff screen, set the Handoff switch to On ().

 
Enable Handoff on Your Mac
 
You also need to enable Handoff on your Mac. To do so, click   on the menu bar and then click System Preferences to open the System Preferences window. Click General to display the General pane. Click Allow Handoff between this Mac and your iCloud devices (  changes to ). You can then click System Preferences on the menu bar and click Quit System Preferences to quit System Preferences.

 
Make and Take Phone Calls on Your Mac
 
When you are using your Mac within Bluetooth range of your iPhone, Continuity enables you to make and take phone calls on your Mac instead of your iPhone. For example, when someone calls you on your iPhone, your Mac displays a call window automatically, and you can pick up the call on your Mac.

 
Send and Receive Text Messages from Your Mac
 
Your Mac can already send and receive messages via Apple's iMessage service, but when your iPhone's connection is available, your Mac can send and receive messages directly via Short Message Service (SMS) and Multimedia Messaging Service (MMS). This capability enables you to manage your messaging smoothly and tightly from your Mac.



Using Your iPhone with Your Apple Watch
Apple Watch puts timekeeping, notifications, and other essential information directly on your wrist. Apple Watch is an accessory for the iPhone — it requires an iPhone to set it up, to provide apps and data, and to give access to the cellular network and the Internet.
Apple Watch works with iPhone 5 and later models.
 
Pair Your Apple Watch with Your iPhone
 
You must pair Apple Watch with your iPhone before you can use the devices together. Press and hold the side button on Apple Watch until the Apple logo appears, and then wait while Apple Watch finishes starting up.
On your iPhone, display the Home screen, and then tap Watch () to open the Watch app. Tap Start Pairing, and then follow the prompts to hold Apple Watch up to your iPhone's rear camera so that the Watch app can recognize the pattern on the Apple Watch screen.
When the Your Apple Watch Is Paired screen appears, tap Set Up Apple Watch and complete the setup routine.

 
Configure Your Apple Watch Using Your iPhone
 
The Watch app on your iPhone enables you to configure your Apple Watch. On your iPhone, display the Home screen, tap Watch () to open the Watch app, and then tap My Watch () to display the My Watch screen.
From here, you can choose a wide range of settings. For example, you can tap App Layout () to configure the layout of the apps on your Apple Watch's screen, or you can tap Notifications () to choose which notifications you receive on your Apple Watch.

 
Install Apps on Your Apple Watch
 
The Watch app on your iPhone enables you to install apps on your Apple Watch — and remove them if necessary.
When you install an iPhone app that has a companion app for Apple Watch, the app's name appears on the My Watch screen. Tap the app's name to display the app's screen. You can then set the Show App on Apple Watch switch to On (  changes to ) to install the app.

 
Receive Notifications on Your Apple Watch
 
When you receive a notification from an app you have permitted to raise notifications, your Apple Watch displays an icon showing the app and other information, such as the sender of an e-mail message. You can tap the notification to view its details.

 
Receive Calls on Your Apple Watch
 
When you receive a phone call, it rings on both your Apple Watch and your iPhone. You can tap Accept () to pick up the call on Apple Watch or tap Decline () to decline the call, sending it to voicemail.









Chapter 4
Setting Up Communications


In this chapter, you learn how to add your e-mail accounts to the Mail app and control how Mail displays your messages. This chapter also shows you how to control the way your iPhone displays your contacts; browse, search, create, and import contacts; choose options for your calendars; and set up Wallet and Apple Pay. 
Set Up Your Mail Accounts
Control How Your E-Mail Appears
Organize Your E-Mail Messages by Threads
Set Your Default E-Mail Account
Control How Your Contacts Appear
Browse or Search for Contacts
Create a New Contact
Import Contacts from a SIM Card
Choose Default Alert Options for Calendar Events
Choose Your Default Calendar and Time Zone
Set Up and Use Wallet and Apple Pay


Set Up Your Mail Accounts
Usually, you set up your iCloud account while going through the initial setup routine for your iPhone. But if you have other e-mail accounts, you can set them up as explained in this section.
To set up an e-mail account, you need to know the e-mail address and password, as well as the e-mail provider. You may also need to know the addresses of the mail servers the account uses. For Microsoft Exchange, including Office 365, you must know the domain name as well.

Set Up Your Mail Accounts

 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Settings ().
The Settings screen appears.
Note: If you have not yet set up an e-mail account on the iPhone, you can also open the Add Account screen by tapping Mail on the iPhone's Home screen. 
 Tap Accounts & Passwords ().

The Accounts & Passwords screen appears. 
 Tap Add Account.
The Add Account screen appears. 
 Tap the kind of account you want to set up. For example, tap Google.
Note: Some account types have fields other than those shown here. For example, some accounts include a field for entering your name the way you want it to appear on outgoing messages. Some include a field for changing the description displayed for the account.

The screen for setting up that type of account appears.
 You can tap More options and then tap Create New Account to create a new account.
 Tap Enter your email and type the e-mail address. 
 Tap Next.
The Password screen appears.
 Type your password. 
 You can tap Show () to display the password you have typed. 
 Tap Next.

 If another security screen appears, such as the 2-Step Verification screen shown here, enter the required information and tap Next.
The configuration screen for the account appears.
 Make sure the Mail switch is set to On ().
 Set the Contacts switch, Calendars switch, Notes switch, and any other switches to On () or Off (), as needed. 
 Tap Save.
The account appears on the Accounts & Passwords screen.

Tip
How do I set up a Hotmail account?
Hotmail is one of the services that Microsoft has integrated into its Outlook.com service. Tap Outlook.com on the Add Account screen, enter your e-mail address on the Outlook screen that appears, and tap Next. On the Enter Password screen, type your password and tap Sign In. On the Let This App Access Your Info? screen, tap Yes. Verify your password again if prompted. After Mail verifies the account, set the Mail switch, Contacts switch, Calendars switch, Reminders switch, and Notes switch to On () or Off (), as needed, and then tap Save.




Control How Your E-Mail Appears
In the Mail app, you can choose how many lines to include in message previews, decide whether to display the To and Cc label, and control whether Mail prompts you before deleting a message. You can change the minimum font size. You can also choose whether to load remote images in messages; whether to mark e-mail addresses outside a particular domain, such as that of your company or organization; and whether to increase the indentation on messages you reply to or forward.

Control How Your E-Mail Appears

 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Settings ().
The Settings screen appears. 
 Tap Mail ().

The Mail screen appears.
 Set the Show To/Cc Labels switch to On () or Off (), as needed. 
 Tap Swipe Options.
The Swipe Options screen appears.
 Tap Swipe Left; tap None, Mark as Read, Flag, or Move Message; and then tap Swipe Options ().
 Tap Swipe Right; tap None, Mark as Read, Flag, Move Message, or Archive; and then tap Swipe Options (). 
 Tap Mail ().
The Mail screen appears again. 
 Tap Preview.

The Preview screen appears.
 Tap the number of preview lines you want.
 Tap Mail ().
 Tap Flag Style, tap Color or Shape to control how message flags appear, and then tap Mail ().
 Set the Ask Before Deleting switch to On () or Off (), as needed.
 Set the Load Remote Images switch to On () or Off (), as needed. 
 Tap Mark Addresses.

The Mark Addresses screen appears.
 In the Mark Addresses Not Ending With box, type the domain name of your company or organization, such as surrealmacs.com. 
 Tap Mail ().
The Mail screen appears again. 
 Tap Increase Quote Level.
The Increase Quote Level screen appears.
 Set the Increase Quote Level switch to On () or Off (), as needed.
 Tap Mail ().
 Tap Settings.

Tips
Why might I want to turn off Load Remote Images?
Loading a remote image lets the sender know that you have opened the message. When Mail requests the remote image, the server that provides the image can log the date and time and your Internet connection's IP address, which reveals your approximate location. 
What is Always Bcc Myself useful for?
Most e-mail services automatically put a copy of each message you send or forward into a folder with a name such as Sent. If your e-mail service does not use a Sent folder, set the Always Bcc Myself switch to On () to send a bcc copy of each message to yourself for your records.




Organize Your E-Mail Messages by Threads
The Mail app gives you two ways to view e-mail messages. You can view the messages as a simple list, or you can view them with related messages organized into threads, which are sometimes called conversations.
Having Mail display your messages as threads can help you navigate your Inbox quickly and find related messages easily. You may find threading useful if you tend to have long e-mail conversations, because threading reduces the number of messages you see at once.

Organize Your E-Mail Messages by Threads


Set Mail to Organize Your Messages by Thread 
 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Settings ().
The Settings screen appears. 
 Tap Mail ().

The Mail screen appears.
 Set the Organize by Thread switch to On ().
 Set the Collapse Read Messages switch to On () if you want Mail to collapse messages you have read to save space.
 Set the Most Recent Message on Top switch to On () if you want the newest message in each thread to appear at the top of the screen. This option is often helpful for keeping up with your messages.
 Set the Complete Threads switch to On () if you want each thread to show all its messages, even if you have moved some to other mailboxes. This option is usually helpful.



Read Messages Organized into Threads 
 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Mail ().
The Mailboxes screen appears.
Note: If Mail displays the contents of a mailbox, tap Back () to return to the Mailboxes screen. 
 Tap the mailbox you want to open.

The Inbox for the account appears.
 Two chevrons on the right indicate a thread. 
 Tap the thread.
The Thread screen appears, showing the thread.
 The screen's title shows the number of messages in the thread.
 Messages you have read appear collapsed if you have set the Collapse Read Messages switch to On ().
 Tap the bar at the top of the message you want to display.

Tip
Is there a quick way to enter my name and information at the end of a message?
Yes. You can create one or more e-mail signatures, which are sections of predefined text that Mail can insert at the end of messages. From the Home screen, tap Settings (), and then tap Mail (). Scroll down to the Composing section and tap Signature to display the Signature screen. Tap All Accounts to use the same signature for each account, or tap Per Account to use a different signature for each account. Then type the text to use for the signature or signatures.





Set Your Default E-Mail Account
If you set up two or more e-mail accounts on your iPhone, make sure that you set the right e-mail account to be the default account. The default account is the one from which the Mail app sends messages when you start creating a message from another app. For example, if you open the Photos app and choose to share a photo via Mail, Mail uses your default account.
You can quickly set your default e-mail account on the Mail screen in the Settings app.

Set Your Default E-Mail Account

 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Settings ().
The Settings screen appears. 
 Tap Mail ().
The Mail screen appears.

 In the Composing section, tap Default Account.
The Default Account screen appears.
 Tap the account you want to make the default. 
 Tap Mail ().
Note: To change the e-mail account for a message you are sending, tap Cc/Bcc, From to expand the Cc, Bcc, and From fields. Next, tap From, and then tap the address on the list that appears at the bottom of the screen.



Control How Your Contacts Appear
To swiftly and easily find the contacts you need, you can set your iPhone to sort and display the contacts in your preferred order. Your iPhone can sort contacts either by first name, putting Abby Brown before Bill Andrews, or by last name, putting Bill Andrews before Abby Brown. Your iPhone can display contacts either as first name followed by last name or last name followed by first name. You can also configure short names preferences for contacts.

Control How Your Contacts Appear

 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Settings ().
The Settings screen appears. 
 Tap Contacts ().
The Contacts screen appears. 
 In the Contacts section, tap Sort Order or Display Order, depending on which order you want to set. This example uses Sort Order.

The Sort Order screen or the Display Order screen appears.
 Tap First, Last or Last, First, as needed. 
 Tap Contacts ().
The Contacts screen appears again. 
 Tap Short Name.
The Short Name screen appears.
 Set the Short Name switch to On ().
 Tap First Name & Last Initial, First Initial & Last Name, First Name Only, or Last Name Only to specify the format for short names.
 Set the Prefer Nicknames switch to On () or Off (), as needed. 
 Tap Contacts ().
The Contacts screen appears again.



Browse or Search for Contacts
Your iPhone's Contacts app enables you to store contact data that you sync from your computer or online accounts or that you enter directly on your iPhone. You can access the contacts either via the Contacts app itself or through the Contacts tab in the Phone app.
To locate a particular contact, you can browse through the list of contacts or through selected groups, such as your friends, or use the Search feature.

Browse or Search for Contacts


Browse Your Contacts 
 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Extras ().
The Extras folder opens. 
 Tap Contacts ().
The Contacts screen appears, showing either All Contacts or your currently selected groups.
Note: You can also access your contacts by pressing Home, tapping Phone (), and then tapping Contacts (  changes to ).
 To navigate the screen of contacts quickly, tap the letter on the right that you want to jump to. To navigate more slowly, scroll up or down. 
 Tap the contact whose information you want to view.

The contact's screen appears.
Note: From the contact's screen, you can quickly phone the contact by tapping the phone number you want to use.
 If necessary, tap and drag up to scroll down the screen to display more information.



Choose Which Groups of Contacts to Display 
 From the Contacts screen, tap Groups.
The Groups screen appears. 
 Tap Show All Contacts.
Contacts displays a check mark next to each group.
Note: When you tap Show All Contacts, the Hide All Contacts button appears in place of the Show All Contacts button. You can tap Hide All Contacts to remove all the check marks.
 Tap a group to apply a check mark to it or to remove the existing check mark. 
 Tap Done.
The Contacts screen appears, showing the contacts in the groups you selected.



Search for Contacts 
 From the Contacts screen, tap Search ().
The Search screen appears.
 Start typing the name you want to search for. 
 From the list of matches, tap the contact you want to view.
The contact's information appears.

Tip
What is a linked contact?
A linked contact is a contact record that the Contacts app has created by combining contact records from two separate sources. For example, if your iCloud account and your Gmail account each contain a contact called Ron Brown, Contacts creates a linked contact called Ron Brown. To unlink a linked contact, tap Edit at the top of the screen for a contact. In the Linked Contacts area, tap Remove () for the appropriate contact record, and then tap Unlink. Alternatively, tap Edit and then tap link contacts () in the Linked Contacts area to link another contact record to the current record.





Create a New Contact
As well as syncing your existing contacts via cloud services such as iCloud or Yahoo!, your iPhone enables you to create new contact records directly on the device. For example, if you meet someone you want to remember, you can create a contact record for that person — and take a photo using the iPhone's camera. You can then sync that contact record online, adding it to your other contacts.

Create a New Contact

 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Phone ().
The Phone app opens. 
 Tap Contacts (  changes to ).
The Contacts screen appears.
Note: You can also access the Contacts app by tapping Extras () on the Home screen, and then tapping Contacts () in the Extras folder. 
 Tap Add ().

The New Contact screen appears. 
 Tap First name.
The on-screen keyboard appears.
 Type the first name.
 Tap Last name. 
 Type the last name.

 Add other information as needed by tapping each field and then typing the information. 
 To add a photo of the contact, tap add photo.
The Photo dialog opens. 
 Tap Take Photo.

The Take Photo screen appears. 
 Compose the photo, and then tap Take Photo ().
The Move and Scale screen appears. 
 Position the part of the photo you want to use in the middle.
Note: Pinch in with two fingers to zoom the photo out. Pinch out with two fingers to zoom the photo in.
 You can tap Retake to take another photo. 
 Tap Use Photo.
The photo appears in the contact record.
 Tap Done.

Tip
How do I assign my new contact an existing photo?
 In the Photo dialog, tap Choose Photo.
 On the Photos screen, tap the photo album.
 Tap the photo.
 On the Move and Scale screen, position the photo, and then tap Choose.




Import Contacts from a SIM Card
If you have stored contacts on a SIM card, you can import them into your iPhone. If the SIM card is a nano-SIM, the smallest common size, you can insert the SIM card in the iPhone temporarily and import the contacts. Alternatively, you can insert the iPhone's SIM card in an unlocked cell phone, copy the contacts to the SIM card, and then put the SIM card back in the iPhone. This approach enables you to use a SIM adapter to make the iPhone's nano-SIM fit in a micro-SIM or full-size SIM slot.

Import Contacts from a SIM Card

 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Settings ().
The Settings screen appears. 
 Tap Contacts ().

The Contacts screen appears.
 In the Contacts section, tap Import SIM Contacts. 
 If the Import SIM Contacts to Account dialog appears, tap the account in which you want to put the contacts.
Your iPhone imports the contacts from the SIM.
 If you want your iPhone to suggest creating contacts from names and data found in e-mail messages, incoming calls, or contact data, tap Siri & Search to display the Siri & Search screen, and then set the Find Contacts in Other Apps switch to On ().



Choose Default Alert Options for Calendar Events
Your iPhone enables you to sync your calendars via iCloud and other online services. To help keep on schedule, you can set default alert times for calendar events. You can set a different alert time for each type of event — for example, 15 minutes' notice for a regular event and a week's notice for a birthday. You can also turn on the Time to Leave feature to make the Calendar app allow travel time based on your location and current traffic.

Choose Default Alert Options for Calendar Events

 Press Home — on an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen — to display the Home screen.
 Tap Settings () to display the Settings screen.
 Tap Calendar () to display the Calendar screen. 
 If you want your iPhone to suggest creating events from apparent event data found in apps such as Mail and Messages, tap Siri & Search to display the Siri & Search screen, and then set the Find Events in Other Apps switch to On ().
 Set the Location Suggestions switch to On () if you want Calendar to suggest locations for events. 
 Tap Default Alert Times.

The Default Alert Times screen appears. 
 Tap the event type for which you want to set the default alert time. For example, tap Events.
The Events screen, Birthdays screen, or All-Day Events screen appears.
 Tap the amount of time for the alert. 
 Tap Default Alert Times ().
The Default Alert Times screen appears again.
 Set default alert times for other event types by repeating steps 5 to 7.
 Set the Time to Leave switch to On () if you want Calendar to suggest leave times based on your location and current traffic information.



Choose Your Default Calendar and Time Zone
When you use multiple calendars on your iPhone, set your default calendar, the calendar that receives events you create outside any specific calendar. For example, if you have a Work calendar and a Home calendar, you might set the Home calendar as the default calendar.
If you travel to different time zones, use the Time Zone Override feature to specify the time zone in which to show event dates and times. Otherwise, Calendar uses the time zone for your current location.

Choose Your Default Calendar and Time Zone

 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Settings ().
The Settings screen appears. 
 Tap Calendar ().

The Calendar screen appears. 
 Tap Time Zone Override.
The Time Zone Override screen appears.
 Set the Time Zone Override switch to On (). 
 Tap Time Zone.

The Time Zone screen appears.
 Type the first letters of a city in the time zone. 
 Tap the search result you want.
The Time Zone Override screen appears again, now showing the city you selected. 
 Tap Calendar ().

The Calendar screen appears again. 
 Tap Default Calendar.
The Default Calendar screen appears.
 Tap the calendar you want to make the default. 
 Tap Calendar ().
The Calendar screen appears again.

Tip
Where do I control which calendars the Calendar app displays?
You choose the calendars in the Calendar app, not in the Settings app. Press Home — on an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen — to display the Home screen, tap Calendar (), and then tap Calendars. On the Calendars screen, tap to place a check mark on each calendar you want to show. Tap to remove a check mark from a calendar you want to hide. Tap Done when you finish.




Set Up and Use Wallet and Apple Pay
Your iPhone enables you to make payments using the Apple Pay system and the Wallet app on your iPhone. Apple Pay can be faster and more convenient than paying with cash. It can also be more secure than paying with a credit card or debit card.
 
Understanding Apple Pay and Wallet
 
Apple Pay is Apple's electronic-payment and digital-wallet service. After setting up Apple Pay with one or more credit cards or debit cards, you can make payments using your iPhone either at contactless payment terminals or online. If you have an Apple Watch, you can use Apple Pay on that device as well.
Wallet is the app you use on your iPhone to manage Apple Pay and the digital documents you want to carry with you, such as airline tickets or store rewards cards.

 
Set Up Wallet
 
Press Home — on an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen — to display the Home screen, and then tap Wallet () to open the Wallet app.
If you have not yet set up a credit card or debit card, tap Add Credit or Debit Card in the Pay area of the Wallet screen. Follow the prompts to add a card to Wallet. You can add the card either by lining it up within an on-screen frame and using the camera to recognize it or by typing in the details manually. Complete the card registration by selecting the correct billing address. For some cards, you may need to contact the card provider to confirm you are setting up Apple Pay.
If you have already added a card, you can add another by tapping Add Card () in the upper-right corner of the screen.
After you add cards, they appear at the top of the Wallet screen.

 
Set Apple Pay to Use Touch ID or Face ID
 
After setting up Apple Pay, you can set your iPhone to use Touch ID or Face ID instead of your Apple ID password for buying items. Touch ID enables you to authenticate yourself and approve a purchase by placing one of your registered fingers on the Home button. Face ID enables you to authenticate yourself and approve a purchase by looking at your iPhone X. This is much more convenient than typing a password, especially when you are shopping in the physical world rather than online.
To set your iPhone to use Touch ID or Face ID for Apple Pay, press Home — on an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen — to display the Home screen, and then tap Settings () to display the Settings screen. For Touch ID, tap Touch ID & Passcode () to display the Touch ID & Passcode screen, and then set the Apple Pay switch to On ().

 
Make a Payment with Apple Pay
 
Now that you have set up Apple Pay and configured your iPhone to use it, you can make payments by bringing your iPhone close to the contact area on a payment terminal.
When the Near Field Communication (NFC) chips on the two devices make contact, a tone sounds. Your iPhone then displays details of the transaction and prompts you to confirm it by placing your finger on the Home button so that it can verify your fingerprint or by looking at your iPhone X to use Face ID.









Chapter 5
Making Calls and Messaging


You can make calls by holding your iPhone to your face, by using the speakerphone, or by using a headset or your car's audio system. You can also make calls using Favorites and recent numbers, send and receive text and multimedia messages, and chat using the FaceTime feature. 
Make Phone Calls and FaceTime Audio Calls
Using a Wireless Headset or Car System 
Mute a Call or Put a Call on Hold
Make a Conference Call
Make Video Calls Using FaceTime
Save Time with Call Favorites and Recents
Send Text and Multimedia Messages
Using Emoji and iMessage Features
Manage Your Instant Messages
Choose Settings for Messages
Block and Unblock Senders 
Set Up and Use the Emergency SOS Feature


Make Phone Calls and FaceTime Audio Calls
With your iPhone, you can make phone calls anywhere you have a connection to the cellular network. You can dial a phone number using the iPhone's keypad, but you can place calls more easily by tapping the appropriate phone number for a contact, using the Phone app's Recents screen, using the Favorites list, or using Siri. When other people near you need to be able to hear the call, you can switch on your iPhone's speaker; otherwise, you can use the headset for privacy.

Make Phone Calls and FaceTime Audio Calls


Open the Phone App 
 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Phone ().
The Phone app opens and displays the screen you used last — for example, the Contacts screen.
 Your phone number appears at the top of the Contacts list for quick reference.
Note: You can dial a call by activating Siri and speaking the contact's name or the number. See Chapter 3 for instructions on using Siri.



Dial a Call Using the Keypad 
 Tap Keypad (  changes to ).
The Keypad screen appears.
Note: On the Keypad screen, you can tap Call () without dialing a number to display the last number dialed. 
 Tap the number keys to dial the number.
Note: You can tap Add to Contacts () to add this number to your Contacts list.
 If you dial a contact's number, the contact's name and phone type appear. 
 Tap Call ().
Your iPhone makes the call.
 Tap End () when you are ready to end the call.



Place a Call to a Contact 
 Tap Contacts (  changes to ).
The Contacts list appears. 
 Tap the contact you want to call.
The contact's info appears. 
 If FaceTime () appears, tap FaceTime () to place a FaceTime Audio call. Otherwise, tap Call ().
 You can tap a number to place a phone call to that number.
Note: You can also place a call to a phone number that the iPhone has identified — for example, by tapping an underlined phone number on a web page or in an e-mail message.

Your iPhone places the call.
 In a FaceTime Audio call, you can tap FaceTime () to switch to a FaceTime Video call. 
 When you are ready to end the call, tap End ().
Your iPhone ends the call.
The Call Ended screen appears for a moment.
The screen from which you placed the call appears — for example, the Contacts screen.
Note: To end a call for which you are using the headset, press the clicker button.

Tips
Can I use the iPhone as a speaker phone?
Yes. Tap speaker (  changes to ) on the screen that appears while you are making a phone call. The iPhone starts playing the phone call through the speaker on the bottom instead of the small speaker at the top. Tap speaker (  changes to ) to switch off the speaker. 
What is Dial Assist?
Dial Assist is a feature that automatically determines the correct local prefix or international prefix when you place a call. To turn Dial Assist on or off, press Home, tap Settings (), tap Phone (), and then set the Dial Assist switch to On () or Off ().





Using a Wireless Headset or Car System
Instead of using the headset that came with your iPhone, you can use a Bluetooth headset. Similarly, you can use a car system with a Bluetooth connection when using your iPhone in your vehicle. For example, many new cars have systems that include Apple's CarPlay standard, which enables the car system to act as the display and controller for a connected iPhone.
You must first pair the Bluetooth headset or car system with your iPhone, as discussed in Chapter 6.

Using a Wireless Headset or Car System

 Turn on the wireless headset or connection and make sure it works. 
 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Phone ().
The Phone app opens. 
 Dial the call. For example, tap Contacts, tap the contact, tap Call (), and then tap the appropriate phone number.
Note: You can also tell Siri to place the call for you.

Your iPhone places the call.
The Audio dialog opens. 
 Tap the headset or other device you want to use.
The Audio dialog closes.
 You can tap audio () to display the Audio dialog and switch to another audio device.
Note: If you are playing audio or video on a Bluetooth headset when you receive a call, your iPhone automatically pauses the audio or video and plays the ringtone on the headset.



Mute a Call or Put a Call on Hold
When you are on a call, you may need to mute your iPhone's microphone so that you can confer with people near you without the person at the other end of the phone call hearing.
You may also need to put a call on hold so that you can make another call or take a break from the call.

Mute a Call or Put a Call on Hold

 Establish the phone call as usual. For example, call a contact. 
 Tap mute (  changes to ).
The iPhone mutes the call. 
 When you are ready to unmute the call, tap mute again (  changes to ).

The iPhone turns off muting. 
 To put the call on hold, tap and hold mute (  changes to ) for several seconds.
The iPhone puts the call on hold.
 The HOLD readout appears in place of the call time.
Note: After placing a call on hold, you can make another call if necessary.
 When you are ready to take the call off hold, tap hold (  changes to ).



Make a Conference Call
As well as making phone calls to one other phone at a time, your iPhone can make calls to multiple phones at once, making either standard cellular calls or FaceTime audio calls, but not mixing the two. To make a conference call, you call the first participant, and then add each other participant in turn. During a conference call, you can talk in private to individual participants. You can also drop a participant from the call.

Make a Conference Call

 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Phone ().
The Phone app opens. 
 Tap Contacts (  changes to ).
The Contacts screen appears. 
 Tap the contact you want to call first.
The contact's record appears. 
 Tap Call () on the phone number to use.
Note: You can also add a contact to the call by using Favorites, Recents, or Keypad.
Your iPhone establishes the call. 
 Tap add call ().
The Contacts screen appears. 
 Tap the contact you want to add.

The contact's record appears. 
 Tap Call (). 
 The iPhone places the first call on hold and makes the new call.

 Tap merge calls ().
The iPhone merges the calls and displays the participants' names at the top of the screen. You can now speak to both participants.
 You can add more participants by tapping add call (), specifying the contact or number, and then merging the calls. 
 To speak privately to a participant, tap Information ().

The Conference screen appears, showing a list of the participants. 
 Tap Private next to the participant.
The iPhone places the other caller or callers on hold.
 You can tap swap () to swap the caller on hold and the active caller. 
 When you are ready to resume the conference call, tap merge calls ().
The iPhone merges the calls, and all participants can hear each other again. 
 When you finish the call, tap End ().
The iPhone ends the call.

Tips
How do I drop a participant from a conference call?
Tap Information () to display the Conference screen, and then tap End next to the participant you want to drop. 
How many people can I add to a conference call?
This depends on your carrier, not on your iPhone. Ask your carrier what the maximum number of participants can be.




Make Video Calls Using FaceTime
By using your iPhone's FaceTime feature, you can enjoy video chats with any of your contacts who have an iPhone 4 or later, an iPad 2 or later, an iPad mini, a fourth-generation or later iPod touch, or the FaceTime for Mac app.
To make a FaceTime call, you and your contact must both have Apple IDs. Your iPhone must be connected to either a wireless network or the cellular network. Using a wireless network is preferable because you typically get better performance and do not use up your cellular data allowance.

Make Video Calls Using FaceTime


Receive a FaceTime Call 
 When your iPhone receives a FaceTime request, and the screen shows who is calling, aim the camera at your face, and then tap Accept ().
The Connecting screen appears.
When the connection is established, your iPhone displays the caller full-screen, with your video inset.
 Start your conversation. 
 Tap the screen.

The controls appear.
 If you need to mute your microphone, tap Mute (  changes to ).
 Tap Mute again (  changes to ) when you want to turn muting off.
 Tap End () when you are ready to end the FaceTime call.



Make a FaceTime Call 
 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap FaceTime ().
The FaceTime app opens. 
 Tap Video.
The Video tab appears. 
 Tap the contact you want to call.

The FaceTime app starts a video call.
 When your contact answers, smile and speak. 
 If you need to show your contact something using the rear-facing camera, tap Switch Cameras ().
 When you are ready to end the call, tap End ().

Tip
Are there other ways of starting a FaceTime call?
Yes. Here are two easy ways to start a FaceTime call:
• Ask Siri to call a contact via FaceTime. For example, press and hold Home to summon Siri, and then say "FaceTime John Smith."
• During a phone call, tap Video ().





Save Time with Call Favorites and Recents
You can dial phone numbers easily from your Contacts list, but you can save time and effort by using the Favorites and Recents features built into the Phone app.
Favorites are phone numbers that you mark as being especially important to you. Recents are phone numbers you have called and received calls from recently.

Save Time with Call Favorites and Recents


Add a Contact to Your Favorites List 
 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Phone ().
The Phone app opens. 
 Tap Contacts (  changes to ).
The Contacts list appears. 
 Tap the contact you want to add.
The contact's record appears. 
 Tap Add to Favorites.

The Add to Favorites dialog opens. 
 Tap the heading for the type of favorite you want to add. This example uses Call.
The list of phone numbers for the contact appears. 
 Tap the phone number you want to add to your Favorites list.
The Add to Favorites dialog closes, and the iPhone creates a favorite for the contact.



Call a Favorite 
 In the Phone app, tap Favorites (  changes to ).
The Favorites list appears. 
 Tap the Favorite you want to call.
Your iPhone places the call.
 To display the contact's record, tap Information () instead of tapping the contact's button. You can then tap a different phone number for the contact if necessary.



Call a Recent 
 In the Phone app, tap Recents (  changes to ).
The Recents screen appears. Red entries indicate calls you missed.
 Tap Missed if you want to see only recent calls you missed. 
 Tap the recent you want to call.
Your iPhone places the call.
 You can delete a recent by swiping its button left and then tapping the textual Delete button.
 If you want to clear the Recents list, tap Edit and then tap Clear. In the dialog that opens, tap Clear All Recents.

Tip
How do I remove a contact from my Favorites?
Tap Favorites (  changes to ) to display the Favorites list, and then tap Edit. Tap Delete () next to the contact, and then tap the textual Delete button. You can also rearrange your favorites by tapping the handle () and dragging up or down. Tap Done when you have finished changing your favorites.





Send Text and Multimedia Messages
Your iPhone can send instant messages using the Short Message Service, abbreviated SMS; the Multimedia Messaging Service, MMS; or Apple's iMessage service. An SMS message consists of only text, whereas an MMS message can contain text, videos, photos, sounds, or other data. An iMessage can contain text, multimedia content, emoji, animations, handwriting, and other features. The Messages app automatically chooses the appropriate type — SMS, MMS, or iMessage — for the messages you create and the ways you send them.

Send Text and Multimedia Messages

 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Messages ().
The Messages screen appears. 
 Tap New Message ().
Note: Before sending an SMS or MMS message, make sure the recipient's phone number can receive such messages. Typically, you do not receive an alert if the message cannot be delivered.

The New Message screen appears. 
 Tap Add Contact ().
The Contacts list appears. 
 Tap the contact to whose phone you want to send the message.
Note: If the contact's record contains multiple phone numbers, Messages displays the contact record. Tap the phone number to use.
Note: iMessage is available only for communicating with other users of Apple devices using their Apple IDs. SMS and MMS work with any device, but may use up your messaging allowance from your carrier.

The contact's name appears in the To field of the New Message screen. 
 Tap the text field.
The text field expands, and the More button appears.
 Tap in the text field, and then type your message. 
 Tap More ().
The other buttons reappear. 
 To add a photo, tap Photo ().
Note: Messages from contacts sent via iMessage appear in blue balloons. Messages from contacts sent via SMS or MMS appear in green balloons.

The Photo dialog opens.
 You can tap Take Photo () to take a photo.
 You can tap Switch Cameras () to switch between the front and rear cameras.
 Tap a recent photo to add it. Scroll left to view other recent photos. 
 You can tap Photo Library to select a photo from your photo library.
 The photo appears in the message. 
 Tap Send ().
Messages sends the message and the photo.

Tips
How can I respond quickly to an instant message?
When Messages displays a notification for an instant message, tap the notification to display the Text Message box. You can then type a reply and tap Send to send it. 
Is there another way to send a photo or video?
Yes. You can start from the Camera app or the Photos app. Select the photo or video you want to share, and then tap Share (). On the Share sheet, tap Message. Your iPhone starts an MMS message containing the photo or video. You can then address and send the message.




Using Emoji and iMessage Features
The Messages app makes it easy to include emoji — graphical characters — in your messages. You can send emoji to users of most instant-messaging services, not just to iMessage users.
When you are sending a message to another user of the iMessage service, you can also use a wide range of features that are not available for SMS messages and text messages. These features include stickers, handwriting and sketches, animations, and Digital Touch, which enables you to send a pattern of taps or your heartbeat. You can also respond quickly to a message by using the Tapback feature.
 
Add Emoji to Messages
 
The Messages app makes it easy to add emoji to your messages. After typing text, tap Emoji () on the keyboard. Messages highlights with color any words in the message that you can replace with emoji; tap a word to insert the corresponding emoji icon, such as   for "great!"
You can also insert other emoji manually by tapping them on the emoji keyboard. Tap the buttons at the bottom of the screen, or simply scroll the emoji panel left or right, to browse the available emoji.

 
Send a Handwritten Message or Sketch
 
To send a handwritten message or sketch, tap New () to begin a new message. Address the message to an iMessage user, tap Apps (), and then tap Digital Touch () to display the Digital Touch controls.
Tap Expand () to expand the panel to full screen, tap the color you want, and then write or draw what you want to send. Tap Send () to send the message.

 
Send a Message with Effect
 
To send a message with effect, write the text for the message, and then tap and hold Send (). The Send with Effect screen appears. At the top of the screen, tap Bubble if you want to send a bubble with an effect such as Slam or Invisible Ink, and then tap the button for the effect; a preview then plays. To send text with a full-screen effect, tap Screen at the top of the screen, and then swipe left or right to reach the effect you want; again, a preview plays. When you are ready to send the message, tap Send ().

 
Send Heartbeats or Taps
 
To send heartbeats or taps, tap New () to begin a new message. Address the message to an iMessage user, tap Apps (), and then tap Digital Touch () to display the Digital Touch controls.
To send a heartbeat, tap and hold with two fingers on the screen. Messages displays a heartbeat graphic and sends a heartbeat; you do not need to tap Send ().

 
Responding Quickly Using the Tapback Feature
 
iMessage enables you to respond quickly to an incoming message by tapping and holding it. The Tapback panel opens, and you can tap the icon you want to send as an instant response.

 
Share the Music You Are Listening To
With iMessage, you can quickly share links to the music you are enjoying on Apple Music. Tap New () to begin a new message, and then address the message to an iMessage user. Tap Apps () to display the Apps panel. Swipe left or right if necessary to display the Music panel, and then tap the item you want to share. A button for the item appears in the message box. Type any explanatory or exhortatory text needed, and then tap Send ().



Send a Payment
 
With iMessage, you can send a payment to a contact. Tap New () to begin a new message, and then address the message to an iMessage user. Tap Apps () to display the Apps panel. Swipe left or right if necessary to display the Apple Pay button, and then tap Apple Pay (). Use the controls to specify the amount, and then tap Pay. The payment ticket appears in the message box. Tap Send () to send it.




Manage Your Instant Messages
Messages is great for communicating quickly and frequently with your nearest and dearest and with your colleagues, so it may not take long before the interface is so full of messages that it becomes hard to navigate.
To keep your messages under control, you can forward messages to others and delete messages you do not need to keep. You can either delete messages from a conversation, leaving the conversation's other messages, or delete the entire conversation.

Manage Your Instant Messages


Delete an Entire Conversation 
 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Messages ().
The Messages screen appears. 
 Tap Edit.

The Messages screen switches to Edit Mode. 
 Tap the selection button (  changes to ) for each conversation you want to delete.
The Delete button appears. 
 Tap Delete.
Messages deletes the conversation.
 You can also delete a conversation by swiping it to the left and then tapping Delete.
 You can suppress alerts for a contact by swiping a message left and then tapping Hide Alerts. 
 When you finish deleting conversations, tap Done.
Messages turns off Edit Mode.



Forward or Delete One or More Messages from a Conversation 
 On the Messages screen, tap the conversation that contains the message or messages you will forward.
The conversation appears.
Note: You can tap in a conversation and slide your finger left to display the time of each message. 
 Tap and hold a message.
A dialog opens. 
 Tap More.

A selection button () appears to the left of each message.
 Tap the selection button (  changes to ) for each message you want to affect. 
 Tap Forward ().
Messages starts a new message containing the message or messages you selected.
 Instead of forwarding the selected messages, you can tap Delete () to delete them from the conversation.
 You can also tap Delete All to delete all the messages.
 Address the message.
 Type any extra text needed.
 Tap Send () to send the message.

Tip
Can I resend a message?
Yes, you can resend a message in either of these ways:
• If a red icon with an exclamation point appears next to the message, the message has not been sent. Tap the icon to try sending the message again.
• If the message has been sent, you can forward it as described in this section. Alternatively, tap and hold the message text, and then tap Copy to copy it. Tap and hold in the message text field, and then tap Paste to paste the text. Tap Send to send the message.





Choose Settings for Messages
Messages includes many settings that you can configure to control the way the app looks and behaves. These settings include whether to send messages as SMS if the iMessage service is unavailable, whether to use MMS messaging, and how long to keep messages.
A key setting is whether to send read receipts for the messages you receive. You can turn read receipts on or off for Messages as a whole, but you can also make exceptions for individual contacts.

Choose Settings for Messages

 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Settings ().
The Settings screen appears. 
 Tap Messages ().
The Messages screen appears.
 Set the iMessage switch to On () to use the iMessage service.
 Set the Show Contact Photos switch to On () to display contact photos.
 Set the Send Read Receipts switch to On () or Off () to control whether Messages sends read receipts for all messages. 
 Tap Text Message Forwarding.

The Text Message Forwarding screen appears.
 Set the switch to On () for each Mac or device you want to allow to send text messages via the iPhone. 
 Tap Back ().
The Messages screen appears again.
 Set the Send as SMS switch to On () to send iMessage messages as SMS or MMS messages when iMessage is unavailable. 
 Tap Send & Receive.

The iMessage screen appears.
 Verify that this list shows the correct phone number and address.
 Tap the phone number or e-mail address from which to start new conversations. 
 Tap Messages ().
The Messages screen appears again.
 Set the MMS Messaging switch to On () to enable MMS messaging.
 Set the Show Subject Field switch to On () or Off (), as needed.
 Set the Character Count switch to On () or Off (), as needed. 
 Tap Keep Messages.

The Keep Messages screen appears.
 Tap 30 Days, 1 Year, or Forever, as needed. 
 Tap Messages ().
The Messages screen appears again.
 Set the Filter Unknown Senders switch to On () if you want to keep messages from unknown senders separate.
 Tap Expire and choose After 2 Minutes or Never for audio messages.
 Set the Raise to Listen switch to On () or Off ().
 Set the Low Quality Image Mode switch to On () or Off (), as needed.

Tip
How do I control read receipts for individual contacts?
First, on the Messages screen in the Settings app, set the Send Read Receipts switch to On () or Off () to control whether Messages sends read receipts by default.
Next, in the Messages app, open a message to or from the appropriate contact. Tap Info () to display the Details screen. Set the Send Read Receipts switch to On () or Off (), as needed, and then tap Done.




Block and Unblock Senders
Messages enables you to block any sender from whom you do not want to receive communications. You can implement blocking from the Messages app or from the Phone app. Whichever app you start from, blocking the contact prevents you from receiving notifications when the contact phones or messages you.
You can review your list of blocked senders and unblock any sender from whom you want to receive messages again.

Block and Unblock Senders


Block a Sender from the Messages App 
 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Messages ().
The Messages screen appears.
Note: If the screen for a contact appears, tap Back () to display the Messages screen. 
 Tap a conversation with the contact you want to block.
The conversation opens. 
 Tap Info ().
The Details screen appears. 
 Tap the contact's name.

The contact record opens. 
 Tap Block this Caller.
A confirmation dialog opens.
 Tap Block Contact.



View Your Blocked List and Unblock Senders 
 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Settings ().
The Settings screen appears. 
 Tap Messages ().

The Messages screen appears. 
 In the SMS/MMS section, tap Blocked.
The Blocked screen appears, showing the list of contacts you have blocked.
 You can tap Add New to display the contacts screen, and then tap the contact you want to block. Blocking the contact blocks all the means of contact, but you can then unblock any means of contact you wish to allow. 
 To unblock a means of contact, swipe its button to the left.
The Unblock button appears.
 Tap Unblock.

Tip
How do I block a contact in the Phone app?
In the Phone app, tap Contacts (  changes to ), tap the contact to display the contact record, and then tap Block this Caller. In the confirmation dialog that opens, tap Block Contact.





Set Up and Use the Emergency SOS Feature
The iPhone's Emergency SOS feature can either display the Emergency SOS screen or dial emergency services automatically when you give the Emergency SOS shortcut, five quick presses on the Power/Sleep button. Emergency SOS can also automatically text a group of emergency contacts to tell them you have dialed emergency services.
To be ready for an emergency, enable the Emergency SOS feature, configure its settings, and then set up your emergency contacts in the Health app.

Set Up and Use the Emergency SOS Feature


Set Up the Emergency SOS Feature 
 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Settings ().
The Settings screen appears. 
 Tap Emergency SOS ().
The Emergency SOS screen appears.
 Set the Auto Call switch to On () if you want to invoke the Emergency SOS shortcut to place the emergency call. Set the Auto Call switch to Off () to display the Emergency SOS screen instead.
 If you set the Auto Call switch to On (), set the Countdown Sound switch to On () to receive a 3-second countdown before your iPhone dials emergency services. 
 Tap Set Up Emergency Contacts in Health.

The Medical ID screen in the Health app appears. 
 Tap Edit.
The Medical ID screen opens for editing. 
 Tap add emergency contact (). 

The Contacts screen appears. 
 Tap the contact you want to designate an emergency contact.
The Relationship screen appears. 
 Tap the button for the term that describes the contact's relationship to you, such as mother, sister, or partner.
The Medical ID screen appears again.
You can add other contacts by repeating steps 8 to 10.
 Tap Done.



Use the Emergency SOS Feature 
 When you need to place an emergency call, press the Power/Sleep button five times in quick succession.  
 If you set the Auto Call switch to On (), your iPhone starts placing an emergency call.
 If you set the Countdown Sound switch to On (), a 3-second countdown starts.
 You can tap Stop () to stop the call.
 If you set the Auto Call switch to Off (), the Emergency SOS screen appears.
 You can swipe Emergency SOS () right to place the emergency call.

Tip
How can I quickly disable Touch ID or Face ID to prevent someone from forcing me to unlock my iPhone?
You can disable Touch ID or Face ID temporarily by pressing the Power/Sleep button five times to invoke the Emergency SOS feature. You must then enter your passcode to unlock the iPhone.
On the iPhone X, you can also temporarily disable Face ID by pressing the Power/Sleep button and the Volume Up button or the Volume Down button — or both the Volume Up button and the Volume Down button — simultaneously.











Chapter 6
Networking and Social Networking


You can control which cellular and wireless networks your iPhone uses and enjoy social networking wherever you go. 
Using Airplane Mode
Monitor Your Cellular Network Usage
Control Cellular Data and Background Refresh
Connect Your iPhone to a Different Carrier
Turn Data Roaming On or Off
Connect Bluetooth Devices to Your iPhone
Share Items via AirDrop
Share Internet Access via Personal Hotspot
Connect to Wi-Fi Networks and Hotspots
Set Up and Enjoy Social Networking


Using Airplane Mode
Normally, you will want to keep your iPhone connected to the cellular network so that you can make or receive phone calls and access the Internet. But when you do not need or may not use the cellular network, you can turn on the iPhone's Airplane Mode feature to cut off all connections.
Turning on Airplane Mode turns off Wi-Fi and Bluetooth connections as well, but you can also turn Wi-Fi and Bluetooth on and off separately when you need to.

Using Airplane Mode

 Swipe up from the bottom of the screen. On an iPhone X, swipe down from the upper-right corner of the screen.
Control Center opens.
Note: You can open Control Center from within most apps. If you are using an app that blocks Control Center, display the Home screen, and then swipe up to open Control Center.
 You can tap Airplane Mode (  changes to ) to turn Airplane Mode on quickly. 
 Press the upper-left box.

The Peek panel opens. 
 Tap Airplane Mode (  changes to ).
Your iPhone turns off all cellular and wireless connections.
 To turn on Wi-Fi, tap Wi-Fi (  changes to ).
 To turn on Bluetooth, tap Bluetooth (  changes to ). 
 Tap the screen above the Peek panel.
The Peek panel closes. 
 Tap the screen at the top of Control Center.
Control Center closes.
Note: When your iPhone has a wireless network connection, it uses that connection instead of the cellular connection. This helps keep down your cellular network usage and often gives a faster connection.



Monitor Your Cellular Network Usage
If you use your iPhone extensively, you may need to monitor your usage of the cellular network to avoid incurring extra charges beyond your data allowance. You can check your current data usage and roaming data usage in the Cellular Data Usage area of the Cellular screen in the Settings app. However, you should also see if your carrier provides an app for monitoring data usage, because such apps frequently offer extra features, such as warning you when your phone is using data quickly.

Monitor Your Cellular Network Usage

 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Press Settings ().
The Peek panel opens. 
 Tap Cellular Data ().
Note: You can also display the Cellular screen by pressing Home, tapping Settings (), and then tapping Cellular () on the Settings screen.

The Cellular screen appears.
 Set the Cellular Data switch to On () to enable cellular data.  
 The readouts in the Call Time area show the amount of time you have spent making calls since last resetting the statistics and during your phone's lifetime.
 The readouts in the Cellular Data Usage area show your cellular data usage since last resetting the statistics and how much roaming data you have used.
 You can reset your usage statistics by tapping Reset Statistics at the bottom of the Cellular screen.
 You can set the Wi-Fi Assist switch to On () to make your iPhone automatically use cellular data when the phone's Wi-Fi connection is poor.



Control Cellular Data and Background Refresh
To control your iPhone's use of cellular data, you can turn cellular data on and off, and you can decide which apps can use cellular data. You can determine which apps and services use the most data, and then turn off greedy apps.
You can also use the Background App Refresh feature to control which apps refresh their content via Wi-Fi or cellular connections when running in the background rather than the foreground.

Control Cellular Data and Background Refresh

 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Settings ().
The Settings screen appears. 
 Tap Cellular ().
Note: Turning off cellular data does not affect cellular voice services: You can still make phone calls, and GPS tracking still works.
The Cellular screen appears.
 If you need to turn cellular data off altogether, set the Cellular Data switch to Off (  changes to ). 
 Tap Cellular Data Options.

The Cellular Data Options screen appears. 
 Tap Enable 4G, Enable LTE, or a similar button that appears for your iPhone.
The corresponding screen appears, such as the Enable 4G screen.
 Tap Off, Voice & Data, or Data Only to specify how to use the high-speed service. 
 Tap Back ().
The Cellular Data Options screen appears again. 
 Tap Cellular ().

The Cellular screen appears again.
 If cellular data is enabled, set each app's switch to On () or Off (), as needed. 
 To see which system services have been using cellular data, tap System Services.
The System Services screen appears.
 Browse the list to identify any services that hog cellular data. 
 Tap Cellular ().
The Cellular screen appears. 
 Tap Settings ().
The Settings screen appears. 
 Tap General ().

The General screen appears. 
 Tap Background App Refresh.
The Background App Refresh screen appears.
 Tap Background App Refresh; tap Off, Wi-Fi, or Wi-Fi & Cellular Data, as needed; and then tap Background App Refresh ().
 Assuming you chose Wi-Fi or Wi-Fi and Cellular Data, set each individual app switch to On () or Off (), as needed. 
 Tap General ().
The General screen appears. 
 Tap Settings ().
The Settings screen appears.

Tip
Which apps should I allow to use Background App Refresh?
Normally, you should restrict Background App Refresh to those apps for which it is important to have updated information immediately available each time you access the app. For example, if you use your iPhone for navigation, getting updated map and GPS information in the background is a good idea, whereas updating magazine subscriptions is usually a waste of cellular data.




Connect Your iPhone to a Different Carrier
Your iPhone's SIM card makes it connect automatically to a particular carrier's network, such as the AT&T network or the Verizon network. If your iPhone is not locked to a particular carrier's network, you can connect the iPhone to a different carrier's network when you go outside the area your carrier covers. For example, if you travel to the United Kingdom, you can connect your iPhone to carriers such as O2, Vodafone, Three, or EE. You may need to change the iPhone's SIM card to connect to another network.

Connect Your iPhone to a Different Carrier

 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Settings ().
The Settings screen appears. 
 Tap Carrier ().
Note: To connect to a different carrier's network, you may need to set up an account with that carrier or pay extra charges to your standard carrier. You may also need to insert a different SIM card in your iPhone.

The Network Selection screen appears. 
 Set the Automatic switch to Off (  changes to ).
The list of available carriers appears. 
 Tap the carrier you want to use.
Note: When you want to switch back to your regular carrier, set the Automatic switch on the Network Selection screen to On (  changes to ).



Turn Data Roaming On or Off
When you need to use your iPhone somewhere your carrier does not provide Internet service, you can turn on data roaming, which enables you to access the Internet using other carriers' networks. Data roaming may incur extra charges, especially when you use it in another country, so keep data roaming turned off and turn it on only when you need it. Normally, you will want to use data roaming only when no wireless network connection is available.

Turn Data Roaming On or Off

 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Press Settings ().
The Peek panel opens. 
 Tap Cellular Data ().

The Cellular screen appears.
 You can also turn off cellular data altogether by setting the Cellular Data switch to Off (). Do this when you need to ensure that all apps use Wi-Fi rather than cellular connections. 
 Tap Cellular Data Options.
The Cellular Data Options screen appears. 
 Set the Data Roaming switch to On (  changes to ).
Note: When you need to turn data roaming off again, set the Data Roaming switch on the Cellular Data Options screen to Off (  changes to ).



Connect Bluetooth Devices to Your iPhone
To extend your iPhone's functionality, you can connect devices to it that communicate using the wireless Bluetooth technology.
For example, you can connect a Bluetooth headset and microphone so that you can listen to music and make and take phone calls. Or you can connect a Bluetooth keyboard so that you can quickly type e-mail messages, notes, or documents. You can also connect your iPhone to another phone, to a tablet, to many cars' infotainment unit, or to a computer via Bluetooth.

Connect Bluetooth Devices to Your iPhone


Set Up a Bluetooth Device 
 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Press Settings ().
The Peek panel opens. 
 Tap Bluetooth ().
The Bluetooth screen appears.
 Set the Bluetooth switch to On (  changes to ). 
 Turn on the Bluetooth device and make it discoverable.
Note: Read the Bluetooth device's instructions to find out how to make the device discoverable via Bluetooth.
 Devices in the My Devices list are already paired with your iPhone. You can tap a device to connect it. 
 Tap the device's button. 

 For a device such as a keyboard or a computer, the Bluetooth Pairing Request dialog opens. 
 Type the code on the device.
The iPhone pairs with the device and then connects to it.
 The My Devices list shows the device as Connected. You can start using the device.



Choose the Device for Playing Audio or Taking a Call 
 Swipe up from the bottom of the screen. On an iPhone X, swipe down from the upper-right corner of the screen.
Note: This example uses the Music app.
Control Center opens. 
 Press the audio controls box.

The Peek panel opens. 
 Tap AirPlay ().
The list of devices appears.
 Tap the device you want to use. 
 Tap Done.
The Peek panel closes. 
 Tap the screen at the top of Control Center.
Control Center closes.

Tip
How do I stop using a Bluetooth device?
When you no longer need to use a particular Bluetooth device, tell your iPhone to forget it. Press Home, and then tap Settings (). Tap Bluetooth (), and then tap Info () for the device. On the device's screen, tap Forget This Device, and then tap Forget Device in the confirmation dialog.





Share Items via AirDrop
AirDrop enables you to share files quickly and easily with iOS devices and Macs near your iPhone. For example, you can use AirDrop to share a photo, a contact record, or an item from Wallet. You can use AirDrop in any app that displays a Share button ().
You can turn AirDrop on when you need it and off when you do not. When AirDrop is on, you can choose between accepting items only from your contacts or from everyone.

Share Items via AirDrop


Turn AirDrop On or Off 
 Swipe up from the bottom of the screen. On an iPhone X, swipe down from the upper-right corner of the screen.
Control Center opens. 
 Press the upper-left box.
The Peek panel opens.
 The readout shows AirDrop's status: AirDrop: Receiving Off; AirDrop: Contacts Only; or AirDrop: Everyone. 
 Tap AirDrop.
Note: AirDrop uses Wi-Fi or Bluetooth to transfer files wirelessly without the devices having to be on the same wireless network.

The AirDrop dialog opens. 
 Tap Receiving Off, Contacts Only, or Everyone, as needed.
The AirDrop dialog closes.
 The AirDrop readout shows the AirDrop setting you chose. 
 Tap the screen above the Peek panel.
The Peek panel closes. 
 Tap the screen at the top of Control Center.
Control Center closes.



Share an Item via AirDrop 
 Open the app that contains the item. For example, tap Photos () on the Home screen.
 Navigate to the item you want to share. For example, tap a photo to open it. 
 Tap Share ().
The Share sheet appears.
 In some apps, you can select other items to share at the same time. For example, in Photos, you can select other photos.
 In the AirDrop area, tap the contact or device you want to send the item to.



Receive an Item via AirDrop 
 When someone tries to send you an item via AirDrop, the AirDrop dialog opens. 
 Tap Accept if you want to receive the item. If not, tap Decline. 
 Your iPhone stores the item in the appropriate app and displays it if possible. For example, when you receive a photo, the Photos app opens and displays the photo so that you can enjoy it, edit it, delete it, or all three.

Tips
Which devices can use AirDrop?
AirDrop works on all iPhone, iPad, and iPod touch models that have the Lightning port rather than the older, larger Dock Connector port. 
Does AirDrop pose a security threat to my iPhone and data?
AirDrop encrypts files so it can transfer them securely. When using AirDrop, you choose which files — if any — you want to share from your iPhone and accept on it; other iOS devices and Macs cannot use AirDrop to grab files from your iPhone.





Share Internet Access via Personal Hotspot
Your iPhone can not only access the Internet itself from anywhere it has a suitable connection to the cellular network, but it can also share that Internet access with your computer and other devices. This feature is called Personal Hotspot.
For you to use Personal Hotspot, your iPhone's carrier must permit you to use it. Some carriers charge an extra fee per month on top of the standard data plan charge.

Share Internet Access via Personal Hotspot


Set Up Personal Hotspot 
 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Settings ().
The Settings screen appears. 
 Tap Personal Hotspot ().

The Personal Hotspot screen appears. 
 Tap Wi-Fi Password.
The Wi-Fi Password screen appears.
 Tap Delete () to delete the default password.
 Type the password you want to use. 
 Tap Done.

The Personal Hotspot screen appears again. 
 Set the Personal Hotspot switch to On (  changes to ).
The Personal Hotspot screen shows the message Now Discoverable and displays information for connecting computers and devices to the hotspot.
You can now connect your computer or other devices.
 The blue bar at the top of the screen shows how many computers or devices are connected to Personal Hotspot.



Stop Using Personal Hotspot 
 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap the Personal Hotspot bar.
The Personal Hotspot screen appears.
 Set the Personal Hotspot switch to Off (  changes to ).

Tip
How else can I connect a PC or Mac to Personal Hotspot?
Usually, you can connect a PC to Personal Hotspot by simply connecting your iPhone to the PC via USB. Windows automatically detects the iPhone's Internet connection as a new network connection and installs any software needed.
Similarly, you can connect a Mac via USB, but you may need to configure the network connection.   + click or right-click System Preferences () on the Dock and click Network on the contextual menu to open the Network preferences pane. In the left pane, click iPhone USB. If the Apply button is dark, click Apply.
If you cannot get USB to work, connect the computer via Wi-Fi or Bluetooth, if your computer has either of those features.





Connect to Wi-Fi Networks and Hotspots
To conserve your data allowance, use a Wi-Fi network instead of the cell phone network whenever you can. Your iPhone can connect to both private Wi-Fi networks and to public Wi-Fi hotspots.
The first time you connect to a Wi-Fi network, you must provide the network's password. After that, the iPhone stores the password, so you can connect to the network without entering the password again.

Connect to Wi-Fi Networks and Hotspots


Connect to a Network Listed on the Wi-Fi Screen 
 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Press Settings ().
The Peek panel opens. 
 Tap Wi-Fi ().
The Wi-Fi screen appears. 
 If Wi-Fi is off, set the Wi-Fi switch to On (  changes to ).
The Choose a Network list appears.
 A lock icon () indicates the network has security such as a password. 
 Tap the network you want to connect to.
Note: If the network does not have a password, your iPhone connects to it without prompting you for a password.

Note: When connecting to a Wi-Fi hotspot, you may need to enter login information in Safari. In this case, Safari usually opens automatically and prompts you to log in.
The Enter Password screen appears.
 Type the password. 
 Tap Join.
Your iPhone connects to the wireless network.
 The Wi-Fi screen appears again, showing a check mark () next to the network the iPhone has connected to.



Connect to a Network Not Listed on the Wi-Fi Screen 
 On the Wi-Fi screen, tap Other.
The Other Network screen appears. 
 Type the network name.
Note: If the network does not use security, tap Join.
 The Wi-Fi signal icons () on the Wi-Fi screen and in the status bar show the strength of the Wi-Fi signals. The more bars that appear in black rather than gray, the stronger a signal is. 
 Tap Security.

The Security screen appears.
 Tap the security type — for example, WPA2. 
 Tap Other Network ().
The Other Network screen appears.
 Type the password. 
 Tap Join.
Your iPhone joins the network.

Tips
What does the Ask to Join Networks switch control?
Your iPhone automatically connects to networks it "knows" — those it has connected to before. Set the Ask to Join Networks switch to On () if you want your iPhone to prompt you to join unknown networks when they are available. 
How do I stop using a particular wireless network?
Tap Info () to the right of the network's name on the Wi-Fi screen. On the network's screen, tap Forget This Network. In the dialog that opens, tap Forget.
Always forget a Wi-Fi hotspot you will not use again. Forgetting the hotspot helps prevent your iPhone from connecting to a malevolent hotspot that mimics the genuine hotspot.





Set Up and Enjoy Social Networking
Always in your pocket or purse if not in your hand, your iPhone is the perfect device for keeping in touch with family, friends, and acquaintances via social networking. You can install apps such as Facebook, Twitter, or WhatsApp; post updates or browse what others have posted; and share content easily from many apps, such as Photos.
 
Install the Social Networking Apps You Need
 
To start with, install the social networking apps you want to use. Press Home to display the Home screen, and then tap App Store () to launch the App Store app. To find a specific app, tap Search (  changes to ), type the app's name, and then tap the appropriate search result. On the screen showing the app, tap Get and follow the procedure for installing the app.

 
Configure Settings for a Social Networking App
 
Many social networking apps have settings that you can configure in the Settings app. To do so, press Home, tap Settings (), and then tap the app's button — for example, tap Facebook () to display the settings screen for the app. You can then configure the controls. Many apps have standard settings such as the Siri & Search switch, the Background App Refresh switch, and the Cellular Data switch. Some have other settings, such as the Upload HD switch in the Facebook app, which controls whether the app uploads high-definition video.
Some apps also have settings that you can configure within the app itself. For example, in Facebook, tap Menu () to open the menu, and then tap Settings ().

 
Launch and Sign In to a Social Networking App
 
When you are ready to start using a social networking app, launch it by tapping its icon on the Home screen. For example, tap Twitter (). Follow the prompts to sign in or log in. For example, in Twitter, enter your username or Twitter handle, enter your password, and then tap Log in.
The app then opens, and you can start using it as normal. For example, in Twitter, tap Tweet () to start writing a new tweet.

 
Share Content with a Social Networking App
 
You can easily share content from other apps with your social networking apps. To do so, first open the appropriate app and select the item you want to share. For example, tap Photos () and select a photo to share. Next, tap Share () to open the Share sheet, tap the social networking app on the Activities bar, and then follow the prompts to post the photo.
If the app does not appear on the Activities bar, tap More () at the right end of the Activities bar to display the Activities dialog. Set the app's switch to On () and drag it by its handle () up or down the list, as needed. Then tap Done.









Chapter 7
Working with Apps


iOS enables you to customize the Home screen, putting the icons you need most right at hand and organizing them into folders. You can switch instantly among the apps you are running, find the apps you need on Apple's App Store, and update and remove apps. You can also work easily with text and take notes. 
Customize the Home Screen
Organize Apps with Folders
Switch Quickly from One App to Another
Find Apps on the App Store
Update and Remove Apps
Cut, Copy, and Paste Text
Format and Replace Text


Customize the Home Screen
From the Home screen, you run the apps on your iPhone. You can customize the Home screen to put the apps you use most frequently within easy reach. You can create additional Home screens as needed and move the app icons among them. You can customize the Home screen by working on the iPhone, as described here. If you synchronize your iPhone with a computer, you can use iTunes instead. This is an easier way to make extensive changes, such as changing the order of the Home screens.

Customize the Home Screen


Unlock the Icons for Customization 
 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears.
 Swipe left or right to display the Home screen you want to customize. 
 You can also tap the dots to move from one Home screen to another. 
 Tap and hold the icon you want to move, without pressing the icon.
Note: You can tap and hold any icon until the apps start jiggling. Usually, it is easiest to tap and hold the icon you want to move, and then drag that icon.
The icons start to jiggle, indicating that you can move them.



Move an Icon Within a Home Screen 
 After unlocking the icons, drag the icon to where you want it.
The other icons move out of the way.
 When the icon is in the right place, drop it. 
 The icon stays in its new position.



Move an Icon to a Different Home Screen 
 After unlocking the icons, drag the icon to the left edge of the screen to display the previous Home screen or to the right edge to display the next Home screen.
The previous Home screen or next Home screen appears.

 Drag the icon to where you want it.
If the Home screen contains other icons, they move out of the way as needed.
 Drop the icon. 
 The icon stays in its new position.


Stop Customizing the Home Screen 
 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The icons stop jiggling.

Tip
How can I put the default apps back into their original Home screen locations?
Press Home — on an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen — to display the Home screen, tap Settings (), and then tap General (). Tap and drag up to scroll down the screen, and then tap Reset. On the Reset screen, tap Reset Home Screen Layout, and then tap Reset Home Screen in the dialog that opens. Press Home or swipe up to return to the Home screen.





Organize Apps with Folders
To organize the Home screen, you can arrange the items into folders. The iPhone's default Home screen layout includes a folder named Extras, which contains items such as the Contacts app and the Compass app, but you can create as many other folders as you need. Like the Home screen, each folder can have multiple pages, with up to nine apps on each page, so you can put many apps in a folder.

Organize Apps with Folders


Create a Folder 
 Display the Home screen that contains the item you want to put into a folder. 
 Tap and hold the item until the icons start to jiggle.
Note: When creating a folder, you may find it easiest to first put both items you will add to the folder on the same screen.

 Drag the item to the other icon you want to place in the folder you create.
The iPhone creates a folder, puts both icons in it, and assigns a default name based on the genre, if it can identify a genre. 
 Tap Delete () to delete the folder name.
The keyboard appears.
 Type the new name for the folder. 
 Tap outside the folder.
The iPhone applies the name to the folder. 
 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The icons stop jiggling.
Note: You can quickly rename a folder by pressing it, tapping Rename, typing the new name, and then tapping outside the folder.



Open an Item in a Folder 
 Display the Home screen that contains the folder. 
 Tap the folder's icon.
The folder's contents appear, and the items outside the folder fade and blur.
 If necessary, swipe left or right or tap a dot to navigate to another page in the folder. 
 Tap the item you want to open.
The item opens.



Add an Item to a Folder 
 Display the Home screen that contains the item.
 Tap and hold the item until the icons start to jiggle. 
 Drag the icon on top of the folder and drop it there.
Note: If the folder is on a different Home screen from the icon, drag the icon to the left edge to display the previous Home screen or to the right edge to display the next Home screen.
The item goes into the folder.
 Press Home to stop the icons jiggling.

Tips
How do I take an item out of a folder?
Tap the folder to display its contents, and then tap and hold the item until the icons start to jiggle. Drag the item out of the folder, drag it to where you want it on the Home screen, and then drop it. When you remove the last item, iOS deletes the folder automatically. 
How do I create another page in a folder?
Open the folder, and then tap and hold an item until the icons start jiggling. Drag the item to the right side of the current page. A new page appears automatically.





Switch Quickly from One App to Another
You can run many apps on your iPhone at the same time, switching from one app to another as needed.
You can switch apps by pressing Home — or on an iPhone X, swiping up from the bottom of the screen — to display the Home screen and then tapping the icon for the next app. But the iPhone also has an app-switching screen that enables you to switch quickly from one running app to another running app. From the app-switching screen, you can also easily close one or more running apps.

Switch Quickly from One App to Another

 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap the app you want to launch. This example uses Maps ().
The app's screen appears. 
 Start using the app as usual.
Note: On an iPhone X, you can switch quickly from one app to another by swiping left or right on the invisible bar at the bottom of the screen.

 On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen to the middle, and then pause momentarily. On iPhone models with a Home button, press Home twice in quick succession. 
 The app-switching screen appears, showing a carousel of thumbnails of the open apps.
 The icons identify the app thumbnails. 
 Swipe left or right to scroll until you see the app you want.
Note: The last app you used appears on the right side of the app-switching screen. To its right is the Home screen. To its left are the apps you have used most recently. 
 Tap the app.

The app appears. 
 When you are ready to switch back, display the app-switching screen again. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen to the middle, and then pause momentarily. On iPhone models with a Home button, press Home twice in quick succession.

 Scroll left or right as needed, and then tap the app to which you want to return.
The app appears, ready to resume from where you stopped using it.

Tip
How do I stop an app that is not responding?
If an app stops responding, you can quickly close it from the app-switching screen. Press Home twice to open the app-switching screen. Scroll to the problem app and then drag it upward so it disappears off the screen. Tap the app you want to use or press Home — on an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen — to return to the Home screen.
You can use this move to close any app that you no longer want to use, whether or not it has stopped responding. For example, if an app seems to be devouring battery power, you can use this technique to close it.




Find Apps on the App Store
The iPhone comes with essential apps, such as Safari for surfing the web, Mail for e-mail, and Calendar for keeping track of your schedule. But to get the most out of your iPhone, you will likely need to add other apps.
To get apps, you use the App Store, which provides apps that Apple has approved as correctly programmed, suitable for purpose, and free of malevolent code. Before you can download any apps, including free apps, you must create an App Store account.

Find Apps on the App Store

 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap App Store ().
The App Store screen appears.
Usually, the Today screen appears at first.
 Tap Apps (  changes to ).

 You can tap Games (  changes to ) if you want to browse games instead of apps.

The Apps screen appears.
 You can tap See All for a list to see the whole list. 
 Swipe up to scroll down until the Top Categories section appears.
Note: The Top Free list shows the free apps that App Store users are downloading. The Top Paid list shows the apps that App Store users are buying. 
 Tap See All in the Top Categories section.

The Categories screen appears. 
 Tap the category you want to see. This example uses the Utilities category.
The category's screen appears.
 You can tap See All to view the full list. 
 Tap the app you want to view.
Note: To understand what an app does and how well it does it, look at the app's rating, read the description, and read the user reviews. Swipe the images to see screen captures from the app.

The app's screen appears. 
 Tap the price button or the Get button.
Note: If the iPhone prompts you to sign in, type your password and then tap OK.
Note: If you have not created an App Store account already, the iPhone prompts you to create one now.
The iPhone downloads and installs the app. 
 Tap Open.
Note: If you switch to another app while the new app downloads and installs, launch the new app from the Home screen instead.
The app opens, and you can start using it.

Tip
Why does App Store not appear on the Home screen or when I search for it?
If App Store () does not appear on the Home screen, and if searching for it does not show a result, the iPhone has restrictions applied that prevent you from installing apps. You can remove these restrictions if you know the restrictions passcode. Press Home, tap Settings (), and then tap General (). Scroll down, and then tap Restrictions. Type the passcode on the Enter Passcode screen, and then set the Installing Apps switch to On (  changes to ).




Update and Remove Apps
To keep your iPhone's apps running smoothly, you should install app updates when they become available. Most minor updates for paid apps are free, but you must often pay to upgrade to a new version of the app.
When you no longer need an app you have installed on your iPhone, you can remove it, thus recovering the space it occupied. You can remove some but not all of the built-in apps.

Update and Remove Apps


Update One or More Apps 
 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears.
 The badge on the App Store icon shows the number of available updates. 
 Tap App Store ().
The App Store screen appears. 
 Tap Updates (  changes to ).
Note: You can press App Store () on the Home screen and then tap Update All on the Peek panel to update all apps easily.
Note: You can also update apps using your computer. Connect your iPhone to the computer. In iTunes, click iPhone (), and then click Apps (). Click the Updates tab, click Update All Apps, and then click Sync.

The Updates screen appears.
 Tap Update All to apply all the available updates now. 
 You can tap Update to update a single app.
 You can tap Account (  or your iCloud account icon) to display the Account screen. From here, you can tap Purchased to display the Purchased screen, from which you can install apps you have bought previously but not yet installed on this iPhone.



Remove an App from the iPhone 
 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears.
 Display the Home screen that contains the app you want to delete.
 Tap and hold the item until the icons start to jiggle. 
 Tap Delete () on the icon.

The Delete dialog appears. 
 Tap Delete.
The iPhone deletes the app, and the app's icon disappears. 
 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The icons stop jiggling.

Tip
How do I remove an app using my computer?
Connect your iPhone to your computer. Then, in iTunes on the computer, click iPhone (), click Apps () in the Source list on the left, and then click Remove to the right of the app. Click Sync to effect the change.





Cut, Copy, and Paste Text
You can easily type text on your iPhone's keyboard or dictate it using Siri, but if the text already exists, you can copy and paste the text instead. This section demonstrates copying text from an e-mail message and pasting it into a Pages document.
If the text is in a document you can edit, you can either copy the text or cut it. If the text is in a document you cannot edit, you can only copy the text.

Cut, Copy, and Paste Text


Open an App and Copy Text 
 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears.
Note: This example uses the Mail app, but you can cut, copy, and paste text in many other apps as well. 
 Tap Mail ().
The Mail app opens. 
 Tap the message you want to open.
Note: Some apps also have a Copy icon and a Paste icon on the top row of the on-screen keyboard.

The message's contents appear. 
 Tap and hold a word in the section of text you want to copy or cut.
The word becomes highlighted.
Selection handles appear around the selection.
 The formatting bar appears.
 Drag the start handle () to the beginning of the text you want.
 Drag the end handle () to the end of the text you want. 
 Tap Copy.
Your iPhone places the text on the Clipboard, a hidden storage area.



Paste the Content You Have Copied or Cut 
 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap the app into which you want to paste the text. This example uses Notes, but you can use many other apps.
The app opens. 
 Create a new document or open an existing document, as needed. For example, in Notes, tap New () to create a new note.

The document opens. 
 Tap where you want to paste the text.
The formatting bar opens.
 Tap Paste. 
 The copied text appears in the document.

Tips
How many items can I store on the Clipboard?
You can store only one item on the Clipboard at a time. Each item you cut or copy replaces the existing item on the Clipboard. But until you replace the existing item on the Clipboard, you can paste it as many times as needed. 
Can I transfer the contents of the Clipboard to my computer?
You cannot transfer the Clipboard's contents directly to your computer, but you can easily transfer it indirectly. For example, paste it into an e-mail message and send it to yourself, or paste it into a note in the Notes app and allow the account, such as iCloud, to sync the note.





Format and Replace Text
Some apps enable you to add text formatting such as boldface, underline, italics, and strikethrough to text to make parts of it stand out. For example, you can apply formatting in e-mail messages you create using the Mail app on some e-mail services and in various apps for creating word-processing documents.
To apply formatting, you first select the text, and then choose options from the pop-up formatting bar. Some apps also offer other text commands, such as replacing a word or phrase from a menu of suggestions.

Format and Replace Text


Apply Bold, Italics, Underline, and Strikethrough 
 Tap and hold the text to which you want to apply bold, italics, underline, or strikethrough.
The formatting bar appears. 
 Tap Select.
Part of the text becomes highlighted, and the selection handles appear.
 Drag the start handle () to the beginning of the text you want. 
 Drag the end handle () to the end of the text you want.

 Tap BIU on the formatting bar.
The formatting bar displays formatting options. 
 Tap Bold, Italic, Underline, or Strikethrough, as needed.
The text takes on the formatting you chose. 
 Tap outside the selected text to deselect it.
Note: Some apps have their own formatting tools, many of which are more extensive than the standard formatting tools shown here.
Note: Some e-mail services and notes services do not support formatting.



Replace Text with Suggested Words 
 Double-tap the word you want to replace.
Note: You can tap and hold anywhere in the word, and then tap Select on the formatting bar to select the word.
The word becomes highlighted and selection handles appear around it.
The formatting bar appears. 
 Tap Replace.

The formatting bar displays suggested replacement words. 
 Tap the word with which you want to replace the selected word.
The word you tapped appears in the text.
Note: Tap More () to display more commands on the formatting bar. For example, in some apps, you can insert photos and videos.
Tip
What does the Quote Level button on the pop-up formatting bar in Mail do?
Tap Quote Level when you need to increase or decrease the quote level of your selected text. You may need to tap More () to display the Quote Level button. When you tap Quote Level, the formatting bar displays an Increase button and a Decrease button. Tap Increase to increase the quote level, indenting the text more and adding a colored bar to its left, or Decrease to decrease the quote level, reducing the existing indent and removing a colored bar.











Chapter 8
Browsing the Web and E-Mailing


Your iPhone is fully equipped to browse the web and send e-mail via a Wi-Fi connection or via the cellular network. 
Browse the Web with Safari
Access Websites Quickly with Bookmarks
Create Bookmarks
Keep a Reading List of Web Pages
Navigate Among Open Web Pages Using Tabs
Tighten Up Safari's Security
Manage Your App and Website Passwords
Read E-Mail
Reply To or Forward an E-Mail Message
Organize Your Messages in Mailbox Folders
Write and Send E-Mail Messages


Browse the Web with Safari
Your iPhone comes equipped with the Safari app, which enables you to browse the web. You can quickly go to a web page by entering its address in the Address box or by following a link.
Although you can browse quickly by opening a single web page at a time, you may prefer to open multiple pages and switch back and forth among them. Safari makes this easy to do.

Browse the Web with Safari


Open Safari and Navigate to Web Pages 
 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Safari ().
Safari opens and loads the last web page that was shown. 
 Tap the Address box.
Note: You can enter widely used domain extensions, such as .com and .net, by tapping and holding . (the period key) and tapping the extensions on the pop-up panel that appears.

Safari selects the current contents of the Address box, and the keyboard appears.
 Tap Delete () if you need to delete the contents of the Address box.
 Type the address of the page you want to open. 
 You can also tap a search result that Safari displays below the Address box. 
 Tap Go.
Safari displays the page. 
 Tap a link on the page.
Safari displays that page.
 After going to a new page, tap Back () to display the previous page. You can then tap Forward () to go forward again.



Open Multiple Pages and Navigate Among Them 
 Tap Pages ().
Safari displays the list of open pages, each bearing a Close button ().
 Below the list of open pages, you can find a list of recent pages you opened on other devices that use the same iCloud account. 
 Tap New Page ().
Note: In landscape orientation, a large-screen iPhone displays a tab bar at the top of the screen. Tap the tab for the page you want to view.

Safari opens a new page and displays your bookmarks. 
 Tap the Address box, and then go to the page you want.
Note: You can also go to a page by using a bookmark, as described in the next section, "Access Websites Quickly with Bookmarks."
The page appears. 
 To switch to another page, tap Pages ().
Safari displays the list of pages.
 Tap the page you want to see. 
 You can tap Close () to close a page.

Tips
How do I search for information?
Tap the Address box to select its current contents, and then type your search terms. Safari searches as you type; you can type further to narrow down the results, and stop as soon as you see suitable results. Tap the result you want to see, and then tap a link on the results page that Safari opens. 
How can I return to a tab I closed by mistake?
Tap Pages () to display the list of open pages, and then tap and hold New Page (). On the Recently Closed Tabs screen that appears, tap the tab you want to reopen.





Access Websites Quickly with Bookmarks
Typing web addresses can be laborious, even with the help that the iPhone's keyboard adds, so you will probably want to use bookmarks to access websites you visit often.
By syncing your existing bookmarks from your computer or online account, as described in Chapter 1, you can instantly provide your iPhone with quick access to the web pages you want to visit most frequently. You can also create bookmarks on your iPhone, as discussed in the next section, "Create Bookmarks."

Access Websites Quickly with Bookmarks


Open the Bookmarks Screen 

 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Safari ().
Safari opens. 
 Tap Bookmarks ().
The Bookmarks screen appears.
Note: You can display the Bookmarks screen quickly from the Home screen by pressing Safari () and then tapping Show Bookmarks on the Peek panel.


Explore Your History 
 On the Bookmarks screen, tap History ().
The History screen appears, showing a list of the web pages you have recently visited.
 You can tap a time or a day to display the list of web pages you visited then.
 You can tap Search History () and type search terms to search for particular pages.
 You can tap a page's button to display that page.
 Tap Bookmarks () when you want to return to the Bookmarks screen.



Explore a Bookmarks Category 
 On the Bookmarks screen, tap the bookmarks folder or category you want to see. This example uses the Books folder.
The contents of the folder or category appear. For example, the contents of the Books folder appear.
 Tap the Back button () one or more times to go back. The button's name depends on the previous folder — in this case, you would tap All () to go back to the Bookmarks screen.



Open a Bookmarked Page 
 You can delete a bookmark by swiping it to the left and then tapping Delete. 
 When you find the bookmark for the web page you want to open, tap the bookmark. 
 The web page opens.

Tip
How can I quickly access a website?
Creating a bookmark within Safari — as discussed in the next section, "Create Bookmarks" — is good for sites you access now and then. But if you access a site frequently, create an icon for it on your Home screen. Open the site in Safari. Tap Share (), tap Add to Home Screen (), type the name on the Add to Home screen, and then tap Add. You can then go straight to the page by tapping its icon on the Home screen.





Create Bookmarks
When you want to access a web page again easily, create a bookmark for it. If you have set your iPhone to sync bookmarks with your iCloud account, the bookmark becomes available on your computer or online account as well when you sync.
If you create many bookmarks, it is usually helpful to create multiple folders in which you can organize the bookmarks. You can create folders easily on the iPhone and choose the folder in which to store each bookmark.

Create Bookmarks


Create a Bookmark 
 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Safari ().
Safari opens and displays the last web page you were viewing.
 Navigate to the web page you want to bookmark. 
 Tap Share ().

The Share sheet appears. 
 Tap Add Bookmark ().
The Add Bookmark screen appears.
 Edit the suggested name, or type a new name, as needed. 
 Tap the current folder under the Location heading.
The Choose a Folder screen appears. 
 Tap the folder in which to store the bookmark.
The Add Bookmark screen appears.
 Tap Save.



Create a New Folder for Bookmarks 
 In Safari, tap Bookmarks ().
The Bookmarks screen appears. 
 Tap Edit.
The editing controls appear.
 You can drag a handle () to change the order of the bookmark folders.
 You can tap Delete () and then tap the textual Delete button to delete a bookmark folder and its contents. 
 Tap New Folder.

The Edit Folder screen appears.
 Type the name for the folder. 
 Tap the folder under the Location heading.
A screen showing the list of folders appears. 
 Tap the folder in which to store the bookmark.
The Edit Folder screen appears again. 
 Tap All ().
The Bookmarks screen appears, still with editing controls displayed.
 Tap Done.

Tip
Can I change a bookmark I have created?
Yes. Tap Bookmarks () to display the Bookmarks screen, and then navigate to the bookmark you want to change. Tap Edit to switch to Editing Mode. You can then tap a bookmark to open it on the Edit Bookmark screen, where you can change its name, address, or location. In Editing Mode, you can also delete a bookmark by tapping Delete () and then tapping Delete, or rearrange your bookmarks by dragging the handle () up or down the list. Tap Done when you finish editing bookmarks.





Keep a Reading List of Web Pages
Safari's Reading List feature enables you to save a web page for later without creating a bookmark. You can quickly add the current web page to Reading List by using the Share sheet. Once you have added pages, you access Reading List through the Bookmarks feature. When viewing Reading List, you can display either all the pages it contains or only those you have not read.

Keep a Reading List of Web Pages


Add a Web Page to Reading List 
 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Safari ().
Safari opens and displays the last web page you were viewing.
 Navigate to the web page you want to add to Reading List. 
 Tap Share ().

The Share sheet appears. 
 Tap Add to Reading List ().
The first time you give the Add to Reading List command, the Automatically Save Reading List Articles for Offline Reading? dialog opens. 
 Tap Save Automatically if you want to save the articles so you can read them when you do not have an Internet connection, which is usually helpful. If not, tap Don't Save Automatically.
Safari adds the web page to Reading List.
Note: To change the Automatically Save Offline setting later, press Home to display the Home screen, tap Settings (), and then tap Safari (). Scroll down to the Reading List section and set the Automatically Save Offline switch to On () or Off (), as needed.



Open Reading List and Display a Page 
 In Safari, tap Bookmarks ().
The Bookmarks screen appears. 
 Tap Reading List ().
Note: You can quickly display the Reading List screen from the Home screen by pressing Safari () and then tapping Show Reading List on the Peek panel.

The Reading List screen appears. 
 Tap Show All.
Reading List displays all the pages it contains, including those you have read.
 Pages you have read appear with gray shading.
 You can tap Show Unread to display only unread pages.
 Tap the page you want to open. 
 If you decide not to open a page from Reading List, tap Done to hide the Reading List screen.

Tip
How do I remove an item from Reading List?
To remove an item from Reading List, swipe it left and then tap the textual Delete button that appears.
You can also swipe an item right. When you do so, the Mark Read button also appears if you have not read the item; the Mark Unread button appears if you have read it. You can tap Mark Read or Mark Unread to switch the item's read status.





Navigate Among Open Web Pages Using Tabs
If you browse the web a lot, you will probably need to open many web pages in Safari at the same time. Safari presents your open pages as a list of scrollable tabs, making it easy to navigate from one page to another.
You can change the order of the tabs to suit your needs, and you can quickly close a tab by either tapping its Close button or simply swiping it off the list.

Navigate Among Open Web Pages Using Tabs


Open Safari and Display the List of Tabs 
 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Safari ().
Safari opens or becomes active.
Note: If Safari has hidden the on-screen controls, tap the screen and pull down a short way to display them. 
 Tap Pages ().
The list of pages appears.



Close Pages You Do Not Need to Keep Open 
 Tap Close () on the tab for a page you want to close.
The page closes, and the tab disappears from the list. 
 Alternatively, you can tap a tab and swipe it left off the screen.
The page closes, and the tab disappears from the list.
Note: You can turn a large-screen iPhone to landscape orientation and then tap Close () to close the current tab.



Change the Order of the Pages 
 Tap and hold the tab for a page you want to move.
The tab moves to the foreground.
 Drag the tab to where you want it to appear in the list, and then release it.



Find a Page and Display It 
 Press the tab for the page you want to display.
The Peek panel for the page opens. 
 Press harder.
The page opens.
Note: You can also turn a large-screen iPhone to landscape orientation to display the tab bar at the top of the screen. You can then tap the tab you want to view.

Tip
How do I return from the list of tabs to the page I was viewing before?
To return to the page you were viewing before, either tap the page's tab in the list of tabs, or tap Done in the lower-right corner of the screen.





Tighten Up Safari's Security
To protect yourself against websites that infect computers with malware or try to gain your sensitive personal or financial information, turn on Safari's Fraudulent Website Warning feature. You can also turn off the JavaScript programming language, which can be used to attack your iPhone. Additionally, you can block pop-up windows, which some websites use to display unwanted information; block new cookies and data; and request that sites not track your visits.

Tighten Up Safari's Security

 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Settings ().
The Settings screen appears. 
 Tap Safari ().

The Safari screen appears.
 The AutoFill feature enables you to save information — such as your name, address, and credit card details — for filling out web forms quickly.
 Set the Block Pop-ups switch to On () to block unwanted pop-up windows.
 Set the Try to Prevent Cross-Site Tracking switch to On () or Off (), as needed.
 Set the Block New Cookies and Data switch to On () or Off (), as needed. 
 Set the Ask Websites Not to Track Me switch to On ().

The Safari screen appears again.
 Set the Fraudulent Website Warning switch to On (). 
 Tap Clear History and Website Data.
A dialog opens. 
 Tap Clear History and Data.
The dialog closes.
Safari clears your browsing history and data. 
 Tap Advanced.

The Advanced screen appears. 
 Set the JavaScript switch to On () or Off (), as needed.
Note: Turning off JavaScript may remove some or most functionality of harmless sites. 
 Tap Website Data.
The Website Data screen appears.
 You can tap Remove All Website Data to remove all website data. 
 Tap Edit.
A Delete icon () appears to the left of each website.
 To delete a website's data, tap Delete (), and then tap the textual Delete button that appears.
 Tap Done.

Tip
What are cookies, and what threat do they pose?
A cookie is a small text file that a website places on a computer to identify that computer in the future. This is helpful for many sites, such as shopping sites in which you add items to a shopping cart, but when used by intrusive or malevolent sites, cookies can pose a threat to your privacy. You may want to set the Block New Cookies and Data switch to Off () to reduce the number of cookies Safari accepts, but be warned that doing so may prevent some legitimate sites from working properly.




Manage Your App and Website Passwords
Your iPhone can store your app and website passwords so that Safari and other apps can enter them automatically when needed, reducing the need for you to type passwords manually.
The App & Website Passwords screen in the Settings app enables you to view the list of password entries your iPhone has stored. You can view and edit a password entry, which lets you copy the password, update it, or change the sites for which it is used; delete a password; or add a new password entry.

Manage Your App and Website Passwords

 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Settings ().
The Settings screen appears. 
 Tap Accounts & Passwords ().

The Accounts & Passwords screen appears. 
 Tap App & Website Passwords.
The Touch ID for "Settings" dialog opens.
Note: If you are not using Touch ID for authentication, your iPhone prompts you to provide your passcode. 
 Apply your registered finger to the Home button.
The Passwords screen appears.
 You can tap Search () and type a search term to search for a particular password. 
 Tap the password entry you want to view.

The screen for the password entry appears.
 You can copy the username or password by tapping and holding it and then tapping Copy on the pop-up toolbar. 
 If you need to edit the username, password, or list of websites, tap Edit.
The fields open for editing.
 Edit the username or password as needed.
 To remove a website, tap Delete () and then tap the textual Delete button. 
 Tap Done.
Editing Mode closes. 
 Tap Passwords ().

The Passwords screen appears again.
 You can delete a password entry by swiping it left and then tapping Delete. 
 To add a new password, tap Add Password.
The Add Password screen appears.
 Type or paste the website address.
 Type or paste the username.
 Type or paste the password. 
 Tap Done.
The Passwords screen appears again.

Tip
What does the Edit button on the Passwords screen enable me to do?
The Edit button on the Passwords screen enables you to delete multiple password entries at once instead of one at a time. Tap Edit to switch the Passwords screen to Editing Mode. You can then tap the selection circle (  changes to ) for each password you want to delete, and then tap Delete.




Read E-Mail
After you have set up Mail during the initial setup routine, as described in Chapter 1, or by adding other accounts, as explained in Chapter 4, you are ready to send and receive e-mail messages using your iPhone. This section shows you how to read your incoming e-mail messages. You learn to reply to messages and write messages from scratch later in this chapter.

Read E-Mail


Read a Message and View an Attached File 
 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears.
 The badge shows the number of unread messages. 
 Tap Mail ().
The Mailboxes screen appears.
Note: If Mail does not show the Mailboxes screen, tap Back () until the Mailboxes screen appears.
 Tap the inbox you want to open.

 To see all your incoming messages together, tap All Inboxes.

 A blue dot indicates an unread message.
 A paperclip icon () indicates one or more attachments.
 A gray star indicates the message's sender is one of your VIPs. See the second tip for information about VIPs.
 You can tap Filter () to filter the messages by Unread status, displaying only unread messages. You can then tap Unread to apply a different filter. 
 Tap a message.
The message opens.
 You can tap Previous () or Next () to display another message. 
 If the message has an attachment, tap it.

The attachment opens in the viewer.
Note: Mail's viewer can display many types of attached files, but not all files.
Note: If Mail has hidden the controls at the top of the screen, tap the screen to display the controls. 
 If you want to send the file to an app or share it with others, tap Share ().
The Share sheet opens.
 Tap the means of sharing, such as Copy to Pages () for a Word document. 
 Tap Done.
The message appears again.



Access New Messages Quickly from the Home Screen 
 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Press Mail ().
The Peek panel opens.
 You can also tap another button, such as VIP.
 You can tap a contact whose icon bears a badge to display a new message from that contact. 
 Tap All Inboxes.
The All Inboxes screen appears.

Tips
How do I view the contents of another mailbox?
From an open message, tap Inbox () or All Inboxes () to return to the inbox or the screen for all the inboxes. Tap Back () to go back to the Mailboxes screen. You can then tap the mailbox you want to view. 
What is the VIP inbox on the Mailboxes screen?
The VIP inbox is a tool for identifying important messages, no matter which e-mail account they come to. You mark particular contacts as being very important people to you, and Mail then adds messages from these VIPs to the VIP inbox. To add a VIP, tap the sender's name in an open message, and then tap Add to VIP on the Sender screen.





Reply To or Forward an E-Mail Message
Mail makes it easy to reply to an e-mail message or forward it to others. If the message had multiple recipients, you can choose between replying only to the sender of the message and replying to the sender and all the other recipients in the To field and the Cc field, if there are any. Recipients in the message's Bcc field, whose names you cannot see, do not receive your reply.

Reply To or Forward an E-Mail Message


Open the Message You Will Reply To or Forward 
 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Mail ().
The Mailboxes screen appears.
Note: When you launch Mail, the app checks for new messages. This is why the number of new messages you see on the Mailboxes screen sometimes differs from the number on the Mail badge on the Home screen. 
 Tap the inbox you want to see.

The inbox opens. 
 Tap the message you want to open.
The message opens. 
 Tap Action ().
The Action dialog opens.
Note: You can also reply to or forward a message by using Siri. For example, say "Reply to this message" or "Forward this message to Alice Smith," and then tell Siri what you want the message to say.



Reply To the Message 
 In the Action dialog, tap Reply.  
 To reply to all recipients, tap Reply All. Reply to all recipients only when you are sure that they need to receive your reply. Often, it is better to reply only to the sender.
A screen containing the reply appears.
 Mail automatically adds your signature, if you have one.
 Type your reply to the message. 
 Tap Send.
Mail sends the message.



Forward the Message 
 In the Action dialog, tap Forward.
A screen containing the forwarded message appears.
 Type the recipient's address. 
 Alternatively, you can tap Add Contact () and choose the recipient in your Contacts list.
 Type a message if needed. 
 Tap Send.
Mail sends the message.

Tips
Can I reply to or forward only part of a message?
Yes. The quick way to do this is to select the part of the message you want to include before tapping Action (). Mail then includes only your selection. Alternatively, you can start the reply or forwarded message, and then delete the parts you do not want to include. 
How do I check for new messages?
In a mailbox, tap and drag your finger down the screen, pulling down the messages. When a progress circle appears at the top, lift your finger. Mail checks for new messages.





Organize Your Messages in Mailbox Folders
To keep your inbox or inboxes under control, you should organize your messages into mailbox folders.
You can quickly move a single message to a folder after reading it or after previewing it in the message list. Alternatively, you can select multiple messages in your inbox and move them all to a folder in a single action. You can also delete any message you no longer need.

Organize Your Messages in Mailbox Folders


Open Mail and Move a Single Message to a Folder 
 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Mail ().
The Mailboxes screen appears. 
 Tap the mailbox you want to open.
The mailbox opens.
 The Replied arrow () indicates you have replied to the message.
 The Forwarded arrow () indicates you have forwarded the message. 
 Tap the message you want to open.

The message opens.
 You can delete the message by tapping Delete (). 
 Tap Move ().
The Move This Message to a New Mailbox screen appears. 
 Tap the mailbox to which you want to move the message.
Mail moves the message.
The next message in the mailbox appears, so that you can read it and file it if necessary.



Move Multiple Messages to a Folder 
 In the mailbox, tap Edit.
 Tap the selection button (  changes to ) next to each message you want to move.
 Tap Move. 
 Tap the destination mailbox.
Note: To move the messages to a mailbox in another account, tap Accounts on the Move This Message to a New Mailbox screen, tap the account, and then tap the mailbox.
Note: Mail studies your history of moving messages so it can suggest the folder you may want for a particular message, saving you scrolling through all your folders.



Move a Message from a Mailbox 
 In the mailbox list, tap the message and swipe to the left. 
 Tap Trash () to delete the message. 
 Tap More.
The More dialog opens. 
 Tap Move Message.
The Mailboxes screen appears.
 Tap the mailbox to which you want to move the message.

Tip
What does the Mark command in the Action dialog do?
Tap Mark to display the Mark dialog. You can then tap Flag to set a flag on the message — for example, to indicate that you need to pay extra attention to it. The flag appears as an orange dot (). In the Mark dialog, you can also tap Mark as Unread to mark the message as not having been read, even though you have opened it; if the message is marked as unread, you can tap Mark as Read instead. You can also mark a message as unread or by tapping it in the message list, swiping right, and then tapping Unread () or Read (), as appropriate.





Write and Send E-Mail Messages
Your iPhone is great for reading and replying to e-mail messages you receive, but you will likely also need to write new messages. When you do, you can use the data in the Contacts app to address your outgoing messages quickly and accurately. If the recipient's address is not one of your contacts, you can type the address manually.
You can attach one or more files to an e-mail message to send those files to the recipient. This works well for small files, but many mail servers reject files larger than several megabytes in size.

Write and Send E-Mail Messages

 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Press Mail ().
The Peek panel appears. 
 Tap New Message ().
Note: You can also tap Mail () and then tap New Message () to start a new message.

The New Message screen appears. 
 Tap Add Contact ().
The Contacts list appears.
Note: If necessary, change the Contacts list displayed by tapping Groups, making your choice on the Groups screen, and then tapping Done.
 If the person you are e-mailing is not a contact, type the address in the To area. You can also start typing here and then select a matching contact from the list that the Mail app displays.
Note: Contacts that appear in gray have no e-mail address. 
 Tap the contact you want to send the message to.

 The contact's name appears in the To area.
Note: You can add other contacts to the To area by repeating steps 4 and 5. 
 If you need to add a Cc or Bcc recipient, tap Cc/Bcc, From.
The Cc, Bcc, and From fields expand. 
 Tap the Cc area or Bcc area, and then follow steps 4 and 5 to add a recipient. 

 To change the e-mail account you are sending the message from, tap From, and then tap the account to use.
 Tap Subject, and then type the message's subject. 
 You can tap Notifications (  changes to ) to receive notifications when someone responds to the e-mail conversation. 
 Tap below the Subject line, and then type the body of the message.
Note: If you need to stop working on a message temporarily, tap its title bar and drag it down to the bottom of the screen. You can then work with other messages. To resume work on the parked message, tap its title bar. 
 Tap Send.
Mail sends the message.
Tip
How do I attach a file to a message?
To attach a photo or video, tap and hold the message body area to display the contextual menu, and then tap Insert Photo or Video. On some iPhone models, you may need to tap More () before tapping Insert Photo or Video.
To attach a file from iCloud Drive, tap and hold the message body area to display the contextual menu, and then tap Add Attachment. On some iPhone models, you may need to tap More () before tapping Add Attachment.
To attach other types of files, start the message from the app that contains the file. Select the file, tap Share (), and then tap Mail (). Mail starts a message with the file attached. You then address the message and send it.










Chapter 9
Keeping Your Life Organized


Your iPhone includes many apps for staying organized, such as the Calendars app, the Reminders app, and the Wallet app. Other apps help you find your way, stay on time, and track stock prices, weather forecasts, and your own health. 
Browse Existing Events in Your Calendars
Create New Events in Your Calendars
Work with Calendar Invitations
Track Your Commitments with Reminders
Keep Essential Documents at Hand with Wallet
Get Your Bearings with Compass
Find Your Location with Maps
Find Directions with Maps
Explore with 3D Flyover
Using Maps' Favorites and Contacts
Take Notes 
Using Stocks, Weather, and Clock
Using the Health App 
Manage Files with the Files App


Browse Existing Events in Your Calendars
Your iPhone's Calendar app gives you a great way of managing your schedule and making sure you never miss an appointment.
After setting up your calendars to sync using iCloud or other calendar services, as described in Chapter 1, you can take your calendars with you everywhere and consult them whenever you need to. You can view either all your calendars or only those you choose.

Browse Existing Events in Your Calendars


Browse Existing Events in Your Calendars 
 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
 Tap Calendar ().  
 The black circle indicates the day shown. When the current date is selected, the circle is red.
 Your events appear on a scrollable timeline.
 An event's background color indicates the calendar it belongs to.
 You can tap Today to display the current day. 
 Tap the day you want to see.

The events for the day appear. 
 Tap the month.
The calendar for the month appears.
 You can tap the year to display the calendar for the full year, in which you can navigate quickly to other months. 
 Scroll up or down as needed, and then tap the date you want.

The date's appointments appear. 
 Tap List (  changes to ).
The appointments appear as a list, enabling you to see more. 
 Tap an event to see its details.
The Event Details screen appears. 
 To edit the event, tap Edit.
The Edit screen appears, and you can make changes to the event. When you finish, tap Done.



Choose Which Calendars to Display 
 Tap Calendars.
 Tap to place or remove a check mark next to a calendar you want to display or hide.  
 Tap Show All to place a check mark next to each calendar for all accounts. Tap Hide All to remove all check marks.
 Similarly, tap Show All or Hide All for an account to display or hide the account's calendars.
 The Birthdays calendar automatically displays birthdays of contacts whose contact data includes the birthday.
 You can set the Show Declined Events switch to On () to include invitations you have declined. 
 Tap Done.
The calendars you chose appear.

Tip
How can I quickly find an event?
In the Calendar app, tap Search (). Calendar displays a list of your events. Type your search term. When Calendar displays a list of matches, tap the event you want to view.





Create New Events in Your Calendars
You can create calendar events on your computer, or online using a web interface such as that of iCloud, and then sync the events to your iPhone. But you can also create new events directly on your iPhone.
You can create either a straightforward, one-shot appointment or an appointment that repeats on a schedule. You can also choose the calendar in which to store the appointment.

Create New Events in Your Calendars

 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Calendar ().
The Calendar screen appears. 
 Tap the day on which you want to create the new event.
Note: From the Home screen, press Calendar () to display the Peek panel and then tap Add Event to start creating a new event. You will need to select the date.
Note: You can also leave the current date selected, and then change the date when creating the event. 
 Tap New ().

The New Event screen appears.
 Tap Title and type the title of the event. 
 Tap Location.
Note: If the Allow "Calendar" to Access Your Location While You Use the App? dialog opens when you tap Location, tap Allow to use locations.
The Location screen appears.
 You can tap Current Location to use the current location.
 Start typing the location.
 Tap the appropriate match. 
 Tap Starts.

The time and date controls appear.
 Tap the date and time controls to set the start time.
 Tap Ends.
 Tap the date and time controls to set the end time. 
 If this is an all-day appointment, set the All-day switch to On ().
 If you need to change the time zone, tap Time Zone, type the city name, and then tap the time zone. 
 Tap Alert.

The Alert screen appears. 
 Tap Time to Leave if you want Calendar to calculate when you should leave, based on your location, the event's location, and the traffic conditions. Otherwise, tap the timing for the alert, such as 30 minutes before.
The New Event screen appears. 
 Tap Calendar.
The Calendar screen appears. 
 Tap the calendar for the event.
The New Event screen appears again. 
 Tap Add.
The event appears on your calendar.

Tips
How do I set up an event that repeats every week?
On the New Event screen, tap Repeat. On the Repeat screen, tap Every Week, placing a check mark next to it, and then tap Done. 
How do I set a time to the exact minute instead of to the nearest 5 minutes?
On the New Event screen, tap Starts to display the time and date controls. Double-tap the time readout — either the hours or the minutes — to switch the minutes between 5-minute intervals and single minutes.




Work with Calendar Invitations
As well as events you create yourself, you may receive invitations to events that others create. When you receive an event invitation attached to an e-mail message, you can choose whether to accept the invitation or decline it. If you accept the invitation, you can add the event automatically to your calendar.

Work with Calendar Invitations


Respond to an Invitation from an Alert 
 When an invitation alert appears, press it.
The Peek panel displays the event's details, together with buttons for responding to the event.
 Tap Accept, Maybe, or Decline, as needed. 
 You can tap Close () to close the Peek panel without tapping one of the response buttons.



Respond to an Invitation from the Inbox Screen 
 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Calendar ().
The Calendar screen appears.
 The Inbox button shows the number of invitations. 
 Tap Inbox.
The Inbox screen appears.
 You can tap Accept, Maybe, or Decline to deal with the invitation without viewing the details. 
 Tap the invitation whose details you want to see.

The Event Details screen appears. 
 Tap Calendar if you decide to accept the invitation.
The Calendar screen appears. 
 Tap the calendar to which you want to assign the event.
The Event Details screen appears again. 
 Tap Alert.

The Alert screen appears. 
 Tap the button for the alert interval. For example, tap 1 hour before.
The Event Details screen appears again.
Note: To control how the event's time appears in your calendar, tap Show As, and then tap Busy or Free, as appropriate, on the Show As screen. 
 Tap Accept.
Your calendar appears, showing the event you just accepted.

Tip
In what other ways can I respond to an invitation?
You can also respond to an invitation by pressing its alert on the lock screen and then tapping Accept, Maybe, or Decline in the Peek panel.
If you have an Apple Watch, it will display your calendar alerts when your iPhone is locked. You can respond to invitations on the Apple Watch as well.
 



Track Your Commitments with Reminders
Your iPhone's Reminders app gives you an easy way to note your commitments and keep track of them. The Reminders app comes with a built-in list called Reminders, but you can create as many other lists as you need, giving each a distinctive color.
You can create a reminder with no due time or location or tie a reminder to a due time, arriving at or leaving a location, or both. Your iPhone can remind you of time- or location-based commitments at the appropriate time or place.

Track Your Commitments with Reminders


Open the Reminders App and Create Your Reminder Lists 
 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Reminders ().
The Reminders app opens, displaying the Lists screen. 
 Tap New ().
The Create New dialog opens. 
 Tap List.

The Select Account dialog opens.
Note: If you have only one Reminders account, the Select Account dialog does not appear. 
 Tap the account in which you want to store the list.
The screen for creating the list appears.
 Type the name for the list.
 Tap the color to use for the list. 
 Tap Done.
The list appears.



Create a New Reminder 
 To create a new reminder in this list, tap the first line.
 To return to the Lists screen so you can switch to another list, tap the tabbed pages at the bottom of the screen.
 The keyboard appears.
 Type the text for the reminder. 
 Tap Information ().

The Details screen appears. 
 To create a time-based reminder, set the Remind me on a day switch to On (  changes to ).
The Alarm and Repeat controls appear. 
 Tap Alarm.
The date and time controls appear.
 Set the date and time for the reminder.
 If you need to repeat the reminder, tap Repeat, choose the repeat interval on the Repeat screen, and then tap Details to return to the Details screen.

Tip
How do I sync my iPhone's reminders with my Mac's reminders?
You can sync your iPhone's reminders with your Mac's reminders via your iCloud account, via one or more Exchange accounts, or via both types of accounts.
On your iPhone, press Home — on an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen — to display the Home screen, and then tap Settings () to display the Settings screen. Tap iCloud () to display the iCloud screen, and then set the Reminders switch to On (). On your Mac, click Apple () and System Preferences to open System Preferences. Click iCloud () to display the iCloud pane, and then click Reminders (  changes to ).




You can assign different priorities to your reminders to give yourself a quick visual reference of their urgency. You can also add notes to a reminder to keep relevant information at hand. When you have completed a reminder, you can mark it as completed. You can view your list of scheduled reminders for quick reference, and you can choose whether to include your completed reminders in the list. If you no longer need a reminder, you can delete it from the list.


 To create a location-based reminder, set the Remind me at a location switch to On ().
Note: If Reminders prompts you to allow it to use your current location, tap Allow. 
 Tap Location.
The Location screen appears.
 Start typing the location in the search box. 
 You can tap Current Location to use your current location. 
 Tap the location in the list of results.

The Location screen displays a map of the location.
 Tap When I Arrive or When I Leave, as needed. 
 Tap Details ().
The Details screen appears again.
 To assign a priority to the reminder, tap None, !, !!, or !!!. 
 To assign the reminder to a different list than the current list, tap List. On the Change List screen, tap the list you want to use.
 To add a note to the reminder, tap Notes and then type the text. 
 Tap Done.

The new reminder appears on your list of reminders. 
 Tap New () or anywhere on the next line to start creating a new reminder.
 When you finish a task, tap its button (  changes to ) to mark the reminder as complete.
Note: To delete a reminder, tap Edit on the screen that contains it. Tap Delete () to the left of the reminder, and then tap Delete.
 Tap the tabbed pages at the bottom of the screen to switch to another reminder list.


View a List of Your Scheduled Reminders 
 Tap Scheduled ().
The Scheduled list appears. 
 Tap the reminder you want to see.
Note: You can turn a large-screen iPhone to landscape orientation to view both your reminder lists and the current list's reminders at the same time.

Tip
How do I change the default list that Reminders puts my reminders in?
Press Home — on an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen — to display the Home screen, and then tap Settings () to display the Settings screen. Tap Reminders () to display the Reminders screen, tap Default List to display the Default List screen, and then tap the list you want to make the default. On the Reminders screen, you can also tap Sync and choose how many reminders to sync — Reminders 2 Weeks Back, Reminders 1 Month Back, Reminders 3 Months Back, Reminders 6 Months Back, or All Reminders.





Keep Essential Documents at Hand with Wallet
Wallet is an app for storing payment cards and electronic versions of essential documents such as insurance cards, boarding passes, movie tickets, and hotel reservations. As explained in Chapter 1, the iPhone's setup routine walks you through adding a payment card for Apple Pay to Wallet; you can add other cards later, as needed.
You can add documents to Wallet from built-in apps such as Mail and Safari, as shown in this section, or by using custom apps for shopping, booking hotels, and booking flights.

Keep Essential Documents at Hand with Wallet


Add a Document to Wallet 
 In Mail, tap the message with the document attached.
The message opens. 
 Tap the document's button.
The document appears. 
 Tap Add.
Mail adds the document to Wallet.
The message appears again.
Note: In Safari, open the web page containing the document, and then tap Add to add the document to Wallet.



Open Wallet and Find the Documents You Need 
 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Wallet ().
The Wallet app opens.
The documents you have added appear.
Note: Until you add one or more documents to Wallet, the app displays an information screen highlighting its uses. 
 Tap the document you want to view. 

 The document appears above the other documents. You can then hold its barcode in front of a scanner to use the document. 
 To see another document, tap the current top document and swipe down.
Wallet reshuffles the documents so you can see them all.



Choose Settings for a Document or Delete It 
 Tap Information ().
The document rotates so you can see its back.
 Set the Automatic Updates switch to On () if you want to receive updates to this document.
 Set the Suggest on Lock Screen switch to On () if you want notifications about the document to appear on the lock screen. 
 If you have no further need for the document, tap Remove Pass to remove it. 
 When you finish reviewing the document, tap Done.
The document rotates to display its front.

Tip
What other actions can I take with documents in Wallet?
You can share a document with other people via e-mail, instant messaging, or AirDrop. To access these features, tap Share (), and then tap AirDrop, Mail, or Message on the Share sheet that appears.





Get Your Bearings with Compass
When you need to get your bearings, use the Compass app that comes installed on your iPhone. With Compass, you can establish your relationship to the points of the compass, learn your precise GPS location, and measure an angle between two points.
Compass includes the Level feature that you can use to level an object or surface precisely or to measure its current slant.

Get Your Bearings with Compass


Open Compass and Get Your Bearings 
 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Extras ().
The Extras folder opens. 
 Tap Compass ().
Note: If Compass displays a message prompting you to complete the circle to calibrate it, turn your iPhone this way and that until the circle is filled in. The compass then appears.
 Point your iPhone in the direction whose bearing you want to take.  
 The readout shows the bearing.
 You can tap the GPS location to switch to the Maps app and display the map for that location.
 The readout shows the approximate elevation above sea level.



Measure an Angle 
 On the Compass screen, tap anywhere on the compass to fix the current bearing. 
 The bearing appears at the top of the compass.
 Turn the iPhone toward the target point. 
 The red arc measures the difference between the two bearings.
 Tap anywhere to release the compass.



Use the Level Feature 
 From the Compass screen, tap and drag left or swipe left.  
 You can also tap the gray dot to switch to the Level screen.
The Level screen appears.
 The figure shows the angle of the object or surface.
 Tilt your iPhone toward a level position to move the circles on top of each other. 
 If the black-and-white color scheme is hard to see, tap anywhere on the screen.

The background color changes to red.
Note: You can tap again to switch the background color from red back to black.
 When you align the circles, the screen goes green.

Tip
Does the Compass app use True North or Magnetic North?
The Compass app can show either True North or Magnetic North. To switch, press Home — on an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen — to display the Home screen, and then tap Settings (). In the Settings app, tap Compass (), and then set the Use True North switch to On () or Off (), as needed.





Find Your Location with Maps
Your iPhone's Maps app can pinpoint your location by using the Global Positioning System, known as GPS, or wireless networks. You can view your location on a road map, display a satellite picture with or without place labels, or view transit information. You can easily switch among map types to find the most useful one. To help you get your bearings, the Tracking feature in the Maps app can show you which direction you are facing.

Find Your Location with Maps

 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Maps ().
The Maps screen appears.
 A blue dot shows your current location. The expanding circle around the blue dot shows that Maps is determining your location.
Note: It may take a minute for Maps to work out your location accurately. While Maps determines the location, the blue dot moves, even though the iPhone remains stationary.
 Drag the gray handle down to collapse the Search pane. 
 Place your thumb and finger apart on the screen and pinch inward.
Note: To zoom in, place your thumb and finger on the screen and pinch apart.

The map zooms out, showing a larger area.
 Tap Location (  changes to ), turning on the Location service. 
 Tap Location (  changes to ). 

 The Compass icon appears (). The red arrow indicates north.
 The map turns to show the direction the iPhone is facing, so that you can orient yourself. 
 When you need to restore the map orientation, tap Compass ().
The map turns so that north is upward.
The Compass icon disappears. 
 Tap Information ().
The Maps Settings dialog opens. 

 You can tap Transit to display transit information for the area. 
 Tap Satellite.
The satellite map appears, showing photos with street and place names overlaid on them.
 Set the Traffic switch to On () or Off (), as needed.
 Set the Labels switch to On () to display labels. 
 Tap Close ().
The Maps Settings dialog closes.
Note: The satellite photos may be several years old and no longer accurate.

Tips
How can I tell the scale of the map?
Place two fingers on the screen as if about to pinch outward or inward. Maps displays a scale in the upper-left corner of the screen. 
How can I share my location?
Press the location you want to share. A Marked Location pin appears, and the Marked Location panel opens. Swipe up to open the Marked Location panel fully, and then tap Share () to display the Share sheet. You can then tap the means of sharing — such as AirDrop, Message, Mail, or Twitter — and follow the prompts to send or post your location.




Find Directions with Maps
Your iPhone's Maps app can give you directions to where you want to go. Maps can also show you current traffic congestion in some locales to help you identify the most viable route for a journey.
Maps displays driving directions by default, but you can make it display public transit directions and walking directions.

Find Directions with Maps

 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Maps ().
The Maps screen appears. 
 Tap Search for a place or address.

The Directions screen appears. 
 Start typing your destination.
A list of suggested matches appears. 
 Tap the correct match.
A map of the destination appears. 
 Tap Directions.
Note: If you want the directions to start from your current location, leave My Location in the From field. Go to step 10. 
 Tap My Location.

The Change Route dialog opens.
 Tap From and start typing the start location for the directions.
 Tap the correct match. 
 You can tap Switch Places () to switch the start location and end location. 
 Tap Route.
A screen showing the driving directions appears.
 If multiple routes are available, tap a time button to view a different route. The time button changes to blue to indicate it is active.
 You can tap Walk () to see walking directions.
 You can tap Transit () to see transit directions.
 You can tap Ride () to see ride-sharing apps that are available. 
 Tap Go.

The first screen of directions appears. 
 Swipe left to display the next direction.
Note: When you start navigating the route, the directions change automatically to reflect your progress. 
 To finish using the directions, tap End.
The map appears again.

Tip
What else should I know about the directions for walking or public transit?
You should be aware that walking directions may be incomplete or inaccurate. Before walking the route, check that it does not send you across pedestrian-free bridges or through rail tunnels.
The Maps app provides transit information for only some routes. Even for these, it is advisable to double-check the information via online schedules, such as on the website or app of the transit company involved.




Explore with 3D Flyover
Maps is not only great for finding out where you are and for getting directions to places, but it can also show you 3D flyovers of the places on the map. Flyovers can be a useful way to explore a place virtually so that you can find your way around later in real life.
After switching on the 3D feature, you can zoom in and out, pan around, and move backward and forward.

Explore with 3D Flyover

 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Maps ().
The Maps screen appears.
 Display the area of interest in the middle of the screen. For example, tap and drag the map, or search for the location you want. 
 Tap Information ().

The Maps Settings dialog opens. 
 Tap Satellite.
The map switches to Satellite view. 
 Tap Close ().
The Maps Settings dialog closes. 
 Tap 3D.
Note: You can also swipe up the screen with two fingers to switch to 3D view.

The map switches to 3D view. 
 Place your thumb and finger on the screen and pinch outward.
The map zooms in.
Note: You can place your thumb and finger on the screen and pinch inward to zoom out.
Note: Tap and drag to scroll the map as needed. 
 Place two fingers on the screen and twist clockwise or counterclockwise to rotate the view.

The rotated view appears.
 The Compass arrow () appears. You can tap it to restore the direction to north.
Note: Pan and zoom as needed to explore the area. 
 Tap and drag up with two fingers.
The viewing angle becomes shallower. 
 Tap 2D.
The two-dimensional map reappears.

Tip
What does 3D do with the standard map?
When you swipe up the screen with two fingers to switch on Flyover with the standard map displayed, Maps tilts the map at an angle, as you might do with a paper map. In cities, building shapes appear when you zoom in on the map, enabling you to see the layout without using the full detail of the satellite photos.




Using Maps' Favorites and Contacts
When you want to return to a location easily in the Maps app, you can create a favorite for the location.
Similarly, you can add a location to your contacts, so that you can access it either from the Contacts app or from the Maps app. You can either create a new contact or add the location to an existing contact. You can also return quickly to locations you have visited recently but for which you have not created a favorite or contact.

Using Maps' Favorites and Contacts


Create a Favorite in Maps 
 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Maps ().
The Maps screen appears.
 Find the place for which you want to create a favorite. For example, tap and drag the map, or search for the location you want. 
 Press the place for which you want to create a favorite.
 The Marked Location panel opens.
 The Maps app drops a pin on the place. 
 Swipe up.
The Marked Location panel opens further. 
 Tap Favorite ().

The Add to Favorites dialog opens.
 Edit the suggested name, or type a new name. 
 Tap Save.
The Add to Favorites dialog closes, and the new name appears at the top of the panel. 
 Tap Close ().
The panel closes.



Create a Contact in Maps 
 Find the place for which you want to create a contact. For example, tap and drag the map, or search for the location you want. 
 Tap and hold the appropriate place.
The Maps app drops a pin on the place.
The Marked Location panel opens. 
 Swipe up.
The Marked Location panel opens further. 
 Tap Create New Contact.
 You can tap Add to Existing Contact and then tap the contact to which you want to add the location instead.

The New Contact screen appears.
 Type the first name for the contact record, as needed.
 Type the last name for the contact record, as needed.
 Add any other information the contact record requires. 
 Tap Done.
The Maps app creates the contact record for the location.
The Marked Location panel appears again. 
 Tap Close ().
The Marked Location panel closes.

Tip
How do I go to a location for which I have created a favorite or a contact?
In the Maps app, tap Where do you want to go? to display the Search screen. Start typing the name of the favorite or contact, and then tap the appropriate search result.





Take Notes
Your iPhone is a great device for taking notes no matter where you happen to be. The Notes app enables you to create notes stored in an e-mail account — such as your iCloud account — or on your iPhone.
You can create straightforward notes in plain text for any account you add to Notes. For notes stored on Exchange, IMAP, or Google accounts, you can also add formatting. For notes stored in iCloud, you can add check boxes, photos, web links, and sketches.

Take Notes

 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Notes ().
The Notes app opens.
Note: To change the account or folder in which you are working, tap Back (), and then tap the account or folder you want to use. 
 Tap New ().

A new note opens.
 Type the title or first paragraph of the note. 
 Tap More ().
The More bar appears. 
 Tap Formatting ().
 You can tap Table () to add a table.
 You can tap Add () to add a photo, scanned document, or sketch to the note. This adds the photo, document, or sketch as a separate item attached to the note.
 You can tap Sketch () to draw a sketch in the note.
 You can tap Close () when you no longer need the More bar displayed.

The Formatting pane appears. 
 Tap the style you want to apply to the paragraph.
The paragraph takes on the style. 
 Tap Close ().
The Formatting pane closes. 
 Tap return.
The insertion point moves to a new paragraph. 
 Tap Check box (). 

 The Notes app inserts a check box on the current line.
 Type the text to accompany the check box. 
 Tap return twice.
The Notes app creates a new paragraph and discontinues the check boxes. 
 When you finish working on the note, tap Done.
The Notes app hides the keyboard. 
 Tap Notes ().
The Notes screen appears again, and you can work with other notes.

Tips
How do I tell Siri the account for new notes?
Press Home — on an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen — to display the Home screen, tap Settings () to display the Settings screen, and then tap Notes (). On the Notes screen, tap Default Account to display the Default Account screen, and then tap the appropriate account; or tap On My iPhone to store the notes only on your iPhone. The Notes widget in Today View also uses this default account. 
What other settings can I configure for Notes?
You can choose the default style for the first line in each new note. Open the Notes screen in the Settings app as explained in the previous tip, tap New Notes Start With, and then tap the appropriate style — Title, Heading, or Body — on the New Notes Start With screen.




Using Stocks, Weather, and Clock
The iPhone includes several built-in apps that enable you to keep track of important information throughout the day. You can use the Stocks app to track stock prices so that you can take immediate action when it becomes necessary. You can use the Weather app to learn the current weather conditions and forecast for your current location and for as many cities as you need. And you can use the Clock app's World Clock, Alarm, Bedtime, Stopwatch, and Timer features to track and measure time.
 
Using the Stocks App
 
The Stocks app enables you to track a customized selection of stock prices.
Tap Stocks () on the Home screen to launch the Stocks app. The Stocks screen appears, showing the default selection of stocks.
To change the stocks displayed, tap Info (). On the Stocks configuration screen that appears, tap Add () to display the Search screen. Type the name or stock symbol of the stock you want to add, and then tap the matching entry in the list. You can tap stock handles () and drag the stocks into your preferred order. Tap percentage, price, or market cap to control which statistic the Stocks app displays first, and then tap Done to return to the Stocks screen.

 
Using the Weather App
 
The Weather app lets you stay in touch with current weather conditions and forecasts for multiple locations.
Tap Weather () on the Home screen to launch the Weather app. You can then swipe left or right at the top of the screen, or tap the dots at the bottom of the screen, to display the city you want to see. Swipe the timeline left to see later hours. Swipe up to display further details, such as sunrise and sunset times, humidity, and wind.
To customize the locations, tap Cities (). You can then tap Add () to add a location, swipe a location left and tap Delete to delete it, or tap and hold and then drag to move a city up or down the list. When you finish customizing the list, tap the city whose weather you want to display.

 
Using the Clock App
 
The Clock app, which you can launch by tapping Clock () on the Home screen, has five main features: World Clock, Alarm, Bedtime, Stopwatch, and Timer. You tap the buttons at the bottom of the screen to select the feature you want to use.
The World Clock feature enables you to easily keep track of the time in different cities. From the list, you can remove a city by swiping its button left and then tapping Delete. To add cities, tap Add () and select the city on the Choose a City screen. To change the order of the list, tap Edit and drag cities up or down by their handles (); tap Done when you finish.
The Alarm feature lets you set as many alarms as you need, each with a different schedule and your choice of sound. Tap Add () to display the Add Alarm screen, set the details for a new alarm, and then tap Save. On the Alarm screen, you can set each alarm's switch to On () or Off (), as needed. 
 
The Bedtime feature encourages you to follow consistent times for going to bed and waking. It also provides sleep analysis.
The Stopwatch feature allows you to time events to the hundredth of a second. You can switch between the analog-look stopwatch and the digital-look stopwatch by swiping left or right. Tap Start to start the stopwatch, tap Lap to mark a lap time, and tap Stop to stop the stopwatch.
The Timer feature enables you to count down a set amount of time and play a sound when the timer ends. You can also use the Timer to play music or other media for a set amount of time. To do this, tap When Timer Ends, tap Stop Playing on the When Timer Ends screen, and then tap Set.



Using the Health App
The Health app integrates with third-party hardware and software to enable you to keep tabs on many different aspects of your health, ranging from your weight and blood pressure to your nutrition, activity levels, and body mass index. Press Home — on an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen — to display the Home screen, and then tap Health () to launch the Health app.
 
Track Your Health with Health Data
 
The Health Data screen provides quick access to the health information you want to track closely.
Tap Health Data (  changes to ) to display the Health Data screen. You can then tap one of the main four areas — Activity, Mindfulness, Nutrition, or Sleep — at the top of the screen to explore the data available. Further down the screen, you can tap Body Measurements, Health Records, Reproductive Health, Results, or Vitals to access those categories. For example, Body Measurements enables you to track your height, weight, body mass index, body fat percentage, and lean body mass.

 
Examine Today's Statistics
 
The Today screen provides an easy way to look at a day's activity and vital statistics.
Tap Today (  changes to ) to display the Today screen, which displays the Favorites list, showing items you have designated as favorites; the Activity list, which shows items such as Resting Energy, Active Energy, and Steps; and the Vitals list, which shows any vital signs measured by your iPhone, Apple Watch, or other hardware sources you have connected to Health.
Tap a button on the Today screen to display more detail. For example, tap Walking  +  Running Distance to display the Walking  +  Running Distance screen, where you can view graphs for day, week, month, and year; set the Add to Favorites switch to On () to make the item a favorite; or tap Data Sources & Access to examine or change the data sources used.

 
Add Data Points
 
The Health app can automatically accept data points from sources you approve, as explained next, but you can also add data points manually. For example, if you weigh yourself on a manual scale or have your blood pressure taken, you can add your latest readings to the Health app so that you can track your weight and blood pressure over time.
Tap Vitals on the Health Data screen to display the Vitals screen. You can then tap the appropriate button to reach its screen. For example, tap Blood Pressure to display the Blood Pressure screen. You can then tap Add () to display the Add Data screen. Enter the date, time, and systolic and diastolic pressures, and then tap the Add button.

 
Add Sources
 
Tap Sources (  changes to ) to display the Sources screen. Here you can review the list of apps that have requested permission to update the data in the Health app; you can remove any apps that you no longer want to permit to update the data. You can also review the list of hardware devices that have gotten permission to update the data — for example, your Apple Watch — and revoke permissions as needed.

 
Add Your Medical ID
 
Tap Medical ID (  changes to ) to display the Medical ID screen. You can then tap Edit to open the data for editing so that you can enter details of your medical conditions, medications, emergency contact, and blood type. Set the Show When Locked switch to On () if you want to display your medical ID on the lock screen, enabling others to access your essential information to help if you become unwell.



Manage Files with the Files App
The Files app enables you to work with files stored on your iPhone; files stored on network servers, such as macOS Server; and files stored on online storage services, such as iCloud Drive. You can quickly locate files by using the Recents screen, by using the Browse screen, or by searching by keyword. You can also recover recently deleted files by using the Recently Deleted Location. You navigate the Files app using similar techniques to those for navigating file-opening and file-saving features within apps.

Manage Files with the Files App


Open the Files App 
 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Files ().
The Files app opens. 
 Tap Browse (  changes to ).
The Browse screen appears.
Note: The Recently Deleted location contains files that you have deleted recently, somewhat like the Trash on macOS or the Recycle Bin on Windows. To retrieve a deleted file, tap Recently Deleted, tap and hold the file, and then tap Recover on the command bar that appears.



Browse Files and Open Files 
 Tap Recents (  changes to ).
The Recents screen appears.
 You can search your recent files by tapping Search () and then typing a search term.
 Some of your most recent files appear at the top.
 Older files appear listed by their tags. 
 Tap Browse (  changes to ).
The Browse screen appears.
 You can search all your files by tapping Search () and then typing a search term. 
 Tap the location you want to browse. This example uses iCloud Drive.

The screen for the location appears.
 You can tap New Folder () to create a new folder in the current folder.
 You can change the sort order by tapping Sorted by and then tapping Name, Date, Size, or Tags in the Sort By dialog.
 You can tap List () to display the files and folders as a list rather than as a grid. 
 Tap the folder you want to open.
The folder opens. 
 Press a file you want to preview.
Note: If you are sure which file you want to open, simply tap the file without pressing it.

The Peek panel opens, showing a preview. 
 Press further on the Peek panel.
The file opens in the default app for the file type, assuming your iPhone has such an app.
The app appears, and you can work on the file.
Note: You can open only files for which your iPhone contains a suitable app. If there is no suitable app, Files displays the file for viewing if it has a suitable viewer, but you cannot change the file.
 You can tap Files () to return to the Files app.

Tip
How do I add locations to the Locations list?
You add locations — such as OneDrive, Google Drive, or Dropbox — by adding accounts for those locations in the Settings app. Press Home — on an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen — to display the Home screen, and then tap Settings () to display the Settings screen. Tap Accounts & Passwords to display the Accounts & Passwords screen, and then tap Add Account. On the Add Account screen, tap the account type. To add an account type that does not appear on the Add Account screen, tap Other to display the Other screen, and then tap the button for the account type, such as Add macOS Server Account.





As well as opening a file, the Files app enables you to take other actions with a file, such as renaming it, copying it and pasting a copy, duplicating it in the same location, or moving it to another location.
The Files app also enables you to use tags to group and sort your files. The Files app comes with default tags with color names, such as Red and Orange, but you can customize the names and create new tags as needed.



Take Other Actions with a File 
 Tap and hold the file you want to affect.
The control bar appears.
 Tap Copy to copy the file. After copying the file, navigate to the location in which you want to paste the copy, tap and hold open space, and then tap Paste on the control bar.
 Tap Duplicate to create a duplicate file in the same folder.
 Tap Rename to display the Rename Document screen. Type the new name, and then tap Done.
 Tap Move to display a screen for moving the file. Tap the location, and then tap Move. 
 For other commands, tap More ().

The remaining commands appear.
 Tap Delete to delete the file.
 Tap Share to open the Share sheet for sharing the file.
 Tap Info to display information about the file. 
 Tap Tags.
The Tags screen appears.
 Tap each tag you want to apply to the file. Also tap any applied tag that you want to remove. 
 Tap Done.
The Files app displays the folder from which you started.



Organize Your Locations and Tags 
 Tap Browse (  changes to ).
The Browse screen appears. 
 Tap Edit.
The Browse screen switches to Edit Mode.
 In the Locations list, set a switch to Off (  changes to ) if you want to hide the location. 
 Tap a handle and drag a location up or down, as needed.

 In the Tags list, tap Delete () and then tap Delete to delete a tag.
 To change the tag order, tap the handle () and drag the tag up or down the list.
 To rename a tag, tap it, and then type the new name. 
 When you finish editing the Browse screen, tap Done.
The Browse screen switches off Edit Mode.
Tip
Can I move or delete multiple files at once?
Yes, you can take several actions with multiple files in the same folder. First, navigate to that folder, and then tap Select to switch to Selection Mode. Tap each item to select it (  changes to ). After selecting the items, tap the appropriate button at the bottom of the screen — Duplicate, Move, Share, or Delete — and then follow the prompts to complete the action.
 









Chapter 10
Enjoying Music, Videos, and Books


As well as being a phone and a powerful handheld computer, your iPhone is also a full-scale music and video player. To play music and listen to radio, you use the Music app; to play videos, you use the TV app. You can read digital books and PDF files using the iBooks app. 
Navigate the Music App and Set Preferences
Play Music Using the Music App
Play Videos Using the TV App
Play Music and Videos Using AirPlay
Create a Music Playlist
Listen to Apple Music Radio
Read Digital Books with iBooks


Navigate the Music App and Set Preferences
The Music app enables you to enjoy music you have loaded on your iPhone, music you have stored on Apple's iTunes Match service, and music on the Apple Music Radio service.
The Music app packs a wide range of functionality into its interface. The For You feature enables you to set — and reset — your musical preferences. The Radio feature allows you to listen to Apple Music Radio. And the Connect feature lets you connect to artists online.

Navigate the Music App and Set Preferences

 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Music ().
The Music app opens. 
 If Library is not selected, tap Library (  changes to ).
The Library screen appears, showing your music library.
 You can tap an item, such as Playlists or Artists, to browse the library.
 The Recently Added section shows items added recently. 
 Tap Edit.

The Library screen opens for editing.
 Tap an empty selection circle to select it (  changes to ), adding that item to the Library list.
 Tap a selected selection circle to deselect it (  changes to ), removing that item from the Library list.
 Drag a selection handle up or down to move an item in the list. 
 Tap Done.
The Library screen displays the customized list. 
 Tap For You (  changes to ).

The For You screen appears, showing music suggestions for you.
Note: On the For You screen, you can scroll down to see different categories of items, such as Artist Playlists and New Releases for you. Scroll a category left to see more items in it.
 You can tap Account () to display the Account screen, on which you can edit your nickname for the account and set a photo to use. 
 Tap Browse (  changes to ).
The Browse screen appears, providing ways to browse music. 
 Tap Radio (  changes to ).

The Radio screen appears.
 You can tap a station to start it playing.
Note: See the section "Listen to Apple Music Radio," later in this chapter, for more information on the Radio feature. 
 Tap Search (  changes to ).
The Search screen appears.
 You can tap the Search box and type a search term.
 You can tap a recent search to repeat it.

Tip
How does the Search function work?
The Search function enables you to search both your own music and the Apple Music service. Tap Search (  changes to ) to display the Search screen, and then type your search terms in the box at the top of the screen. Tap the Apple Music tab button to see matching searches you can perform on Apple Music; you can then tap a search to perform it. Tap the In Library tab button to see matching items in your music, broken down into categories such as Artists, Albums, or Songs. When you locate the item you want, tap the item to go to it.




Play Music Using the Music App
After loading music on your iPhone, as described in the section "Choose Which Items to Sync from Your Computer" in Chapter 1, you can play it back using the Music app. You can play music by song or by album, as described in this section. You can play songs in exactly the order you want by creating a custom playlist, as described in the later section, "Create a Music Playlist." You can also play by artist, genre, or composer.

Play Music Using the Music App

 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Music ().
The Music app opens. 
 Tap Library (  changes to ).
The Library screen appears. 
 Tap the button for the means by which you want to browse your library. This example uses Songs, so the Songs screen appears.

 Tap the letter that starts the name of the item you want to play.
That section of the list appears.
 If tapping the letter displays the songs sorted by artist, tap Sort and then tap Title in the dialog that opens.
Note: You can also swipe or drag your finger up the screen to scroll down.
Note: Tap above the letter A in the navigation letters to go back to the top of the screen. 
 Tap the song you want to play.
The song starts playing.
 The song appears on the Now Playing button.
 You can tap Pause () to pause the song.
 You can tap Next () to skip to the next song. 
 Tap Now Playing — either the song name or the album art.

The Now Playing screen appears.
 Tap and drag the playhead to move through the song.
 Tap and drag the volume control to change the volume. 
 Tap More ().
The More pop-up panel appears. 

 You can tap Delete from Library () to delete the song from your iPhone's library.
 You can tap Add to a Playlist () to add the song to a new or existing playlist.
 You can tap Love () or Dislike () to indicate your feeling toward the song.
 Swipe up the screen.
Other controls appear.
 You can tap Shuffle () to play songs in random order.
 You can tap Repeat () to repeat the current song or current list.
 The Up Next section shows upcoming songs. You can tap a song to play it, or drag a handle () to rearrange the list. 
 Tap Back ().
The list of songs appears again.

Tip
How else can I control playback?
Swipe up from the bottom of the screen to display Control Center. You can control playback using the playback buttons, and tap and drag the volume slider to adjust the volume.




Play Videos Using the TV App
To play videos — such as movies, TV shows, or music videos — you use the iPhone's TV app, which you can set up to use your existing TV provider. You can play a video on the iPhone's screen, which is handy when you are traveling; on a TV to which you connect the iPhone; or on a TV connected to an Apple TV box. Using a TV is great when you need to share a movie or other video with family, friends, or colleagues.

Play Videos Using the TV App


Set Up the TV App 
 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears.
Note: If your iPhone does not have the TV app, use the Videos app () instead.
Note: You can also play videos included on web pages. To do so, press Home, tap Safari, navigate to the page, and then tap the video. 
 Tap TV ().
The Welcome to the TV App screen appears. 
 Tap Continue.

The Sign In to Your TV Provider screen appears. 
 Tap Sign In.
 If you do not have a TV provider, or you do not want to sign in now, tap Not Now.
The Choose a TV Provider screen appears. 
 Tap your TV provider, and then follow the prompts to sign in.
The Watch Now screen appears.
 Tap Get Started, and then follow the prompts to connect any TV-related apps to the TV app.



Watch a Video 
 In the TV app, tap the video source. In this example, tap Library (  changes to ).
The Library screen appears. 
 Tap the video category, such as Home Videos.
The category screen appears. 
 Tap the video you want to view.
The details screen for the video appears. 
 Tap Play ().

The video starts playing.
Note: If the video is in landscape format, turn your iPhone sideways to view the video in landscape orientation. 
 When you need to control playback, tap the screen.
The playback controls appear.
 You can drag the playhead to move through the video.
 You can drag the volume control to change the volume.
 You can tap Pause () to pause playback. Tap Play () to resume playback.
 Tap and hold Rewind () to rewind the video a few seconds at a time.
 Tap and hold Fast-Forward () to fast-forward the video a few seconds at a time. 
 Tap Done when you want to stop playing the video.
The details screen for the video appears again.

Tips
How do I play videos on my television from my iPhone?
If you have an Apple TV or AirPlay-compatible device, use AirPlay, as explained in the next section, "Play Music and Videos Using AirPlay." Otherwise, use the Apple Lightning Digital AV Adapter and an HDMI cable to connect your iPhone to a TV. 
What other video content can I watch on my iPhone?
You can also use your iPhone to watch or listen to podcasts, which are video or audio programs released via the Internet. The Podcasts app enables you to access podcasts covering many different topics, and the iTunes U app is your gateway to podcasts containing educational content, some free and some paid.





Play Music and Videos Using AirPlay
Using the AirPlay feature, you can play music from your iPhone on remote speakers connected to an AirPlay-compatible device such as an AirPort Express or Apple TV. Similarly, you can play video from your iPhone on a TV or monitor connected to an Apple TV. Even better, you can use the iOS feature called Screen Mirroring to display an iPhone app on a TV or monitor. For example, you can display a web page in Safari on your TV screen.

Play Music and Videos Using AirPlay


Play Music on External Speakers or an Apple TV 
 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Music ().
The Music app opens. 
 Navigate to the song you want to play. For example, tap Library (  changes to ), tap Songs, and then tap the song.
The song appears on the Now Playing button. 
 Tap Now Playing.

The Now Playing screen appears. 
 Tap AirPlay ().
The AirPlay dialog opens. 
 Tap the AirPlay device on which you want the music to play.
Your iPhone starts playing music on the device via AirPlay.



Play Video or an App on an Apple TV 
 Open the app you want to use. This example uses Notes (). 
 On an iPhone X, swipe down from the upper-right corner of the screen. On other iPhone models, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
Note: In landscape view, swipe up once to display an arrow button in the center of the bottom of the screen. Tap this button or swipe up again to open Control Center.
Control Center opens. 
 Press Screen Mirroring ().

The Peek panel for Screen Mirroring opens. 
 Tap the Apple TV you want to use.
The Peek panel closes.
The iPhone's screen appears on the screen connected to the Apple TV. 
 Tap in the app above Control Center.
Control Center closes, and the app appears full-screen.
Note: When you are ready to stop screen mirroring, open Control Center, press Screen Mirroring (), and then tap Stop Mirroring.

Tip
Can AirPlay play music through multiple sets of speakers at the same time?
AirPlay on the Mac or PC can play music through two or more sets of speakers at the same time, enabling you to play music throughout your home. However, as of this writing, AirPlay on the iPhone can play only to a single device at a time.





Create a Music Playlist
Instead of playing individual songs or playing a CD's songs from start to finish, you can create a playlist that contains only the songs you want in your preferred order. Playlists are a great way to enjoy music on your iPhone.
To help identify a playlist, you can add a new photo or an existing photo. Alternatively, you can let the Music app create a thumbnail from the covers of the songs you add to the playlist.

Create a Music Playlist

 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Music ().
The Music screen appears. 
 Tap Library (  changes to ).
The Library screen appears. 
 Tap Playlists.

The Playlists screen appears. 
 Tap New Playlist.
The New Playlist screen opens.
 Tap Playlist Name and type the name for the playlist.
 Optionally, tap Description and type a description for the playlist.
 Optionally, tap Photo (), tap Take Photo or Choose Photo, and follow the prompts to add a photo. 
 Tap Add Music ().

The Add Songs screen appears.
 You can search for music by tapping Search () and typing your search term. 
 Tap the button for the means by which you want to browse your library. This example uses Songs.
The appropriate screen appears, such as the Songs screen.
 Tap each song you want to add (  changes to ). 
 Tap Done.

The New Playlist screen appears.
 Rearrange the songs as needed by dragging each song up or down by its handle (). 
 You can remove a song by tapping Remove () and then tapping the textual Remove button that appears. 
 Tap Done.
The Playlists screen appears.
 If you want to listen to the new playlist, tap its button.

Tip
How can I add songs to an existing playlist?
Navigate to the song you want to add, and then press it. In the Peek panel, tap Add to a Playlist (). The Add to a Playlist screen appears, showing your playlists. Tap the playlist to which you want to add the song. You can use the same technique to add a whole album to a playlist.




Listen to Apple Music Radio
The Radio feature in the Music app enables you to listen to the Apple Music Radio service. Apple Music Radio has two main parts, one free and one paid. The free part comprises the Beats 1 global radio station and other live radio stations. The paid part is curated, on-demand radio stations and custom radio stations, which require a subscription to the Apple Music service. An individual subscription costs $9.99 per month; a family subscription, which covers up to six people, costs $14.99 per month.

Listen to Apple Music Radio

 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Music ().
The Music app opens. 
 Tap Radio (  changes to ).
The Radio screen appears.
 You can swipe left on the thumbnail bar to display other major stations.
 The Featured Stations list shows stations that Apple Music Radio is currently featuring. 
 Tap Radio Stations.

The Radio Stations screen appears.
 The top of the Radio Stations screen shows some featured stations such as Charting Now. Swipe left on the thumbnail bar to browse the stations.
 The Featured Stations list shows currently featured stations. 
 Swipe up to scroll down.
The All Genres list appears. 
 Tap the genre you want to browse.

The list of stations in that genre appears.
Note: To share a station, press the station and then tap Share Station ().
 Tap the station you want to play.  
 The current song on that station starts playing. The song appears on the Now Playing button.
 You can tap Pause () to pause playback.
 You can tap Skip () to skip to the next song. 
 Tap Now Playing.

The Now Playing screen appears.
 You can tap Back () to return to the Radio screen.
 You can drag the playhead to move through the song.
 You can drag the volume control to change the volume.
 You can tap Add () to add the song to your library. 
 Tap More ().
The More panel appears.
 You can tap Love () or Dislike () to express your feelings about the song.
 You can tap Add to a Playlist () to add the song to a playlist.
 You can tap Create Station () to create a station based on the song.
 You can tap Share Song () to share the song with others.

Tip
What do the Share Station and Share Song commands do?
The Share Station command enables you to share a link to a station on Apple Music Radio. Similarly, the Share Song command lets you share a link to a song on the iTunes Store. You can use various means of sharing, such as sending the link via Mail or Messages, posting it to Facebook or Twitter, or simply setting yourself a reminder to listen to — or avoid — the music.




Read Digital Books with iBooks
The iBooks app enables you to read e-books or PDF files that you load on the iPhone from your computer or sync via iCloud by enabling iBooks on your Mac and your iPhone to use iCloud. You can also read e-books and PDFs you download from online stores, download from web pages, or save from e-mail messages.
If you have already loaded some e-books, you can read them as described in this section. If iBooks contains no books, tap Store and browse the iBooks Store or sync books from your computer using iTunes.

Read Digital Books with iBooks

 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap iBooks ().
iBooks opens, and a screen such as the All Books screen or the Books screen appears.
 If the Audiobooks screen or the PDFs screen appears, tap Audiobooks or PDFs. On the Collections screen that appears, tap All Books or Books to display the All Books screen or the Books screen.
 To view the books as a list, tap List (  changes to ) at the top of the screen.

 You can tap Search () and search to locate the book you want.

The list of books appears.
 You can tap Recent, Titles, Authors, or Categories to sort the books differently. 
 Tap the book you want to open.
The book opens.
Note: When you open a book, iBooks displays your current page. When you open a book for the first time, iBooks displays the book's cover, first page, or default page.
 To change the font, tap Font Settings () and work in the Font Settings dialog. 
 Tap anywhere on the screen to hide the reading controls.

The reading controls disappear.
Note: To display the reading controls again, tap anywhere on the screen. 
 Tap the right side of the page to display the next page.
Note: To display the previous page, tap the left side of the page. Alternatively, tap the left side of the page and drag to the right.
 To look at the next page without fully revealing it, tap the right side and drag to the left. You can then either drag further to turn the page or release the page and let it fall closed. 
 To jump to another part of the book, tap Table of Contents ().
Note: Alternatively, you can drag the slider at the bottom of the screen.

The table of contents appears.
 Tap the part of the book you want to display. 
 To search in the book, tap Search ().
The Search screen appears. 
 Type the search term.
The list of search results appears.
 Tap the result you want to display.
Tips
How do I put my Mac's iBooks library on my iPhone manually?
Use iTunes to sync your books. Connect your iPhone to your Mac, and then click iPhone () on the navigation bar. Click Books in the Settings list in the sidebar, and then click Sync Books (  changes ). To sync all your books, click All books (  changes to ); to sync books you choose, click Selected books (  changes to ) and then click each book (  changes to ). 
Where can I find free e-books to read in iBooks?
On the iBooks Store, tap Featured and then tap Free Books in the Browse area. Other sources of free e-books include ManyBooks.net (www.manybooks.net), Project Gutenberg (www.gutenberg.org), and the Baen Free Library (www.baen.com/library).










Chapter 11
Working with Photos and Video


Your iPhone's Camera app enables you to take high-quality still photos and videos. You can edit photos or apply filters to them, trim video clips down to length, and easily share both photos and videos. 
Take Photos with the Camera App
Take Live, Timed, Portrait, and Panorama Photos
Apply Filters to Your Photos
Edit Your Photos
Capture Video
Browse Photos Using Years, Collections, and Moments
Browse Photos Using Memories
Browse Photos Using the Map
Browse Photos Using iCloud Photo Sharing
Browse Photos Using Albums
Share Photos Using My Photo Stream
Share Photo Streams with Other People
Share and Use Your Photos and Videos
Play Slide Shows of Photos


Take Photos with the Camera App
Your iPhone includes a high-resolution rear camera and a lower-resolution screen-side camera. Both cameras can take photos and videos, and the screen-side camera works for video calls, too. To take photos using the camera, you use the Camera app. This app includes a digital zoom feature for zooming in and out; a flash that you can set to On, Off, or Auto; and a High Dynamic Range (HDR) feature that combines several photos into a single photo with adjusted color balance and intensity.

Take Photos with the Camera App


Open the Camera App 
 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears.
Note: From the lock screen, you can open the Camera app by swiping left. 
 Tap Camera ().
The Camera app opens and displays whatever is in front of the lens.



Compose the Photo and Zoom if Necessary 
 Aim the iPhone so that your subject appears in the middle of the photo area. To focus on an item not in the center of the frame, tap that item to move the focus rectangle to it.
Note: If you need to take tightly composed photos, get a tripod mount for the iPhone. You can find various models on eBay and photography sites. 
 If you need to zoom in, tap and hold the Zoom readout.
The zoom track appears. 
 Drag along the zoom track to zoom.
Note: You can also zoom in by placing two fingers together on the screen and pinching outward. To zoom out, pinch inward.
Note: On a dual-lens iPhone, tap the zoom number to zoom in quickly to 2X using optical zoom. Tap 2X to return to 1X zoom.



Choose Flash and HDR Settings 
 Tap Flash ( ,  , or ).
The Flash settings appear.
 Tap On to use the flash, Auto to use the flash if there is not enough light without it, or Off to turn the flash off. 
 Tap HDR.
The HDR settings appear. 
 Tap Auto, On, or Off, as needed.
Note: You cannot use the flash with HDR. Turning HDR on turns the flash off, and vice versa.



Take the Photo and View It 
 HDR appears if HDR is on. 
 Tap Take Photo ().
Note: You can tap and hold Take Photo () to take a burst of photos.
The Camera app takes the photo and displays a thumbnail. 
 Tap the thumbnail.
The photo appears.
 From the photo screen, swipe or tap a thumbnail to display another photo. Tap Delete () to delete the current photo.
 Tap Back () when you want to go back to the Camera app.

Tip
How do I switch to the front-facing camera?
Tap Switch Cameras () to switch from the rear-facing camera to the front-facing camera. The image that the front-facing camera is seeing appears on-screen, and you can take pictures as described in this section. HDR is available for the front-facing camera; flash is available only on the some iPhone models. Tap Switch Cameras () again when you want to switch back to the rear-facing camera.





Take Live, Timed, Portrait, and Panorama Photos
The Camera app's Live Photo feature enables you to capture several seconds of video around a still photo. Live Photo is great for photographing moving subjects or setting the scene.
The self-timer feature lets you set the app to take a burst of 11 photos after a delay of 3 seconds or 10 seconds, which is good for group shots and for avoiding camera shake. You can also capture panoramas, time-lapse movies, and — on some iPhone models only — portrait photos with blurred backgrounds.

Take Live, Timed, Portrait, and Panorama Photos


Open the Camera App, Take a Live Photo, and View It 
 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Camera ().
The Camera app opens. 
 Tap Live (  changes to ).
Note: Live Photo starts recording video as soon as you enable the feature. Live Photo discards the video except for the segments before and after photos you shoot. 

 The Live badge appears briefly. 
 Take Take Photo ().
The Camera app captures the Live Photo. 
 Tap the photo's thumbnail.
The photo opens.
The Live Photo segment plays.
 Tap and hold the photo to play the Live Photo segment again. 
 Tap Back ().
The Camera app appears again.



Take a Timed Photo 
 Tap Timer ().
The Timer settings appear. 
 Tap 3s or 10s to set the delay.
The delay appears next to the Timer icon. 
 Tap Take Photo ().
Note: The Camera app displays an on-screen countdown, and the rear flash flashes to indicate the countdown to the subject.
When the countdown ends, the Camera app takes a burst of 11 photos.
Note: The timer remains set until you change it.



Take a Portrait Photo 
 Tap Portrait.
Note: If Portrait does not appear, your iPhone does not support this feature.
Camera adjusts the focus to blur the background.
Note: If the subject is too close to the iPhone, Camera displays the prompt Move farther away. Do so.
 The Depth Effect readout appears. 
 Tap Take Photo ().
Camera takes a photo.
Note: To take a square photo, such as a photo for a contact record, tap Square.

Tips
How do I take panorama photos?
Tap Pano. Holding the iPhone in portrait orientation, aim at the left end of the panorama. Tap Take Photo (); gradually move the iPhone to the right, keeping the white arrow on the horizontal line; and then tap Stop (). 
How do I take time-lapse movies?
Tap Time-Lapse; if you cannot see Time-Lapse, drag the current setting to the right first. Set the iPhone up on a tripod or other steady holder, aim it at the subject, and then tap Start (). When you have captured enough, tap Stop () to stop shooting.





Apply Filters to Your Photos
You can use the Filter feature in the Camera app to change the look of a photo by applying a filter such as Vivid, Dramatic Warm, Mono, Silvertone, or Noir.
You can apply a filter either before taking the photo or after taking it. If you apply the filter before taking the photo, you can remove the filter afterward; the filter is an effect applied to the photo, not an integral part of the photo.

Apply Filters to Your Photos

 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Camera ().
The Camera app opens. 
 Tap Filters ().

The Filters screen appears. 
 Tap the filter you want to preview.
Camera applies the filter to the screen.
 Tap the filter you want to apply.
 Tap Take Photo (). 
 Tap the photo's thumbnail.

The photo appears. 
 Tap Edit.
The Edit Photo screen appears, showing the editing tools. 
 Tap Filters ().

The Choose Filter screen appears. 
 Tap the filter you want to apply.
Note: Tap Original if you want to remove filtering. 
 Tap Done.
iOS saves the change to the photo.
 Tap Back () to return to the Camera app.

Tip
Is it better to apply a filter before taking a photo or after taking it?
This is up to you. Sometimes it is helpful to have the filter effect in place when composing a photo so that you can arrange the composition and lighting to complement the filtering. Other times, especially when you do not have time to experiment with filters, it is more practical to take the photos and then try applying filters afterward.




Edit Your Photos
To improve your photos, you can use the powerful but easy-to-use editing tools your iPhone includes. These tools include rotating a photo to a different orientation, straightening it by rotating it a little, and cropping off the parts you do not need.
You can access the editing tools either through the Recently Added album in the Photos app or through the Photos app. To start editing a photo, you open the photo by tapping it, and then tap Edit.

Edit Your Photos


Open a Photo for Editing 
 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Photos ().
The Photos app opens.
 Navigate to the photo you want to edit. 
 If the photo is part of a burst, the Burst readout appears. You can tap Select to select another photo from the burst instead of the default photo. 
 Tap Edit.
The Editing controls appear.



Crop, Rotate, and Straighten a Photo 
 Tap Crop ().
The tools for cropping, straightening, and rotating appear.
 You can tap Rotate () to rotate the photo 90 degrees counterclockwise.
 Tap and hold the degree dial. 
 The grid appears. 
 Drag the degree dial left or right to straighten the photo. 

 You can tap Reset to reset the photo.
 Tap and hold an edge or corner of the crop box. 
 The nine-square grid appears. This is to help you compose the cropped photo.
 Drag the edge or corner of the crop box to select only the area you want to keep.



Enhance the Colors in a Photo 
 Tap Auto-Enhance (  changes to ).
iOS enhances the colors.
Note: Tap Auto-Enhance again (  changes to ) if you want toremove the color change.
Note: You can tap and hold the photo to display the original photo for as long as you hold. Displaying the original helps you see the effects of your changes.

Tip
What does the three-squares button on the cropping screen do?
The button with three squares () is the Aspect button. Tap Aspect () when you need to crop to a specific aspect ratio, such as a square or the 16:9 widescreen aspect ratio. In the Aspect dialog that opens, tap the constraint you want to use. iOS adjusts the current cropping to match the aspect ratio. You may then need to move the portion of the photo shown to get the composition you want. If you adjust the cropping, tap Aspect () again and reapply the aspect ratio.





The Red-Eye Reduction feature enables you to restore feral eyes to normality. The Enhance feature enables you to adjust a photo's color balance and lighting quickly using default algorithms that analyze the photo and try to improve it. The Enhance feature often works well, but for greater control, you can use the Light settings and the Color settings to tweak the exposure, highlights, shadows, brightness, black point, contrast, vibrancy, and other settings manually.



Remove Red Eye from a Photo
Note: You may need to zoom in on the photo in order to touch the red-eye patches accurately.

 Tap Red-Eye Reduction ().
iOS prompts you to tap each eye. 
 Tap each red eye.
iOS removes the red eye. 
 Tap Red-Eye Reduction ().
iOS turns off the Red-Eye Reduction tool.



Adjust the Colors in a Photo 
 Tap Adjust ().
The Adjust controls appear. 
 Tap Expand () on the Light bar.
Note: To adjust all the light settings at once, using Photos' automated adjustments, tap Light.
The Light settings appear. 
 Tap the setting you want to adjust. This example uses Brightness.

 Drag the scale to adjust the setting.
Following this example, the photo becomes brighter. 
 Tap List ().

The list of Light settings appears. 
 Tap Expand () on the Color line.
Note: To adjust all the color settings at once, using Photos' automated adjustments, tap Color. Similarly, you can tap B&W to adjust all the black-and-white settings at once.
The list of Color settings appears.
 Tap the setting you want to adjust. This example uses Saturation.
 Drag the scale to adjust the setting. 
 Tap List ().
The list of settings appears, and you can adjust further settings as needed.

Tips
How do I save the changes I have made to a photo?
When you finish making changes to a photo, tap Done to save the changes. 
How do I get rid of changes I have made to a photo?
Tap Cancel, and then tap Discard Changes in the confirmation dialog that opens.





Capture Video
As well as capturing still photos, the Camera app can capture high-quality, full-motion video in either portrait orientation or landscape orientation. You launch the Camera app as usual, and then switch it to Video Mode for regular-speed shooting or to Slo-Mo Mode to shoot slow-motion footage. You can use flash, but it is effective only at close range for video. After taking the video, you can edit the clip by trimming off any unwanted frames at the beginning and end.

Capture Video

 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Camera ().
The Camera screen appears, showing the image the lens is seeing.
 Tap Slo-Mo if you want to shoot slow-motion footage. 
 Tap Video.

The video image and video controls appear. 
 Aim the camera at your subject.
 If you need to use the flash for the video, tap Flash ( ,  , or ), and then tap Auto or On.
Note: To focus on a particular area of the screen, tap that area. 
 Tap Record (). 

 The camera starts recording, and the time readout shows the time that has elapsed.
 To zoom in, tap and hold the Zoom readout, and then drag along the zoom track.
Note: You can also zoom by placing your thumb and forefinger on the screen and pinching apart or pinching together.
 To take a still photo while shooting video, tap Take Photo (). 
 To finish recording, tap Stop ().
The Camera app stops recording and displays a thumbnail of the video's first frame. 
 Tap the thumbnail.

The video appears. 
 Tap Play ().
The video starts playing. 
 Tap anywhere on the screen to display the video controls. These disappear automatically after a few seconds of not being used.
Note: To trim the clip down to only the section you need, tap Edit. Tap and hold the left trim handle () so that its background turns yellow, and then drag it to the starting frame. Drag the right trim handle () to the ending frame. Tap Done, and then tap Save as New Clip. 
 When you finish viewing the video, tap Back ().
The Camera app appears again.

Tips
How can I pause shooting a video?
As of this writing, you cannot pause while shooting. Either shoot separate video clips or trim out unwanted footage afterward. 
What does the bar of miniature pictures at the bottom of the video playback screen do?
The navigation bar gives you a quick way of moving forward and backward through the video. Tap the thumbnails and drag them left or right until the part of the video you want to view is at the vertical blue playhead bar. You can use the navigation bar either when the video is playing or when it is paused.




Browse Photos Using Years, Collections, and Moments
You can use the Photos app to browse the photos you have taken with your iPhone's camera, photos you have synced using iTunes or via iCloud's Shared Streams feature, and images you save from e-mail messages, instant messages, or web pages.
You can browse your photos by dates and locations using the smart groupings that Photos creates. Each Year grouping contains Collections, which contain Moments, which contain your photos. Alternatively, you can browse by albums, as explained in the section "Browse Photos Using Albums," later in this chapter.

Browse Photos Using Years, Collections, and Moments

 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Photos ().
The Photos app opens. 
 Tap Photos (  changes to ).
The Photos screen appears, showing the Years list. 
 Tap the year you want to open.

The Collections screen for the year appears. 
 Tap the collection you want to open.
Note: Scroll up or down as needed to see other collections.
The Moments screen for the collection appears. 
 Tap the photo you want to view.

The photo opens.
 You can tap Edit to edit the photo, as explained earlier in this chapter.
 You can tap Share () to share the photo, as explained later in this chapter.
 You can tap Favorite (  changes to ) to make the photo a favorite.
 You can tap Trash () to delete the photo.
Note: The Trash icon does not appear for photos you cannot delete, such as photos in a shared photo stream. 
 In the thumbnail bar, tap the photo you want to view.
Note: You can also swipe left or right to display other photos.
The photo appears. 
 Tap Back ().

The Moments screen appears.
Note: You can scroll up or down to display other moments. 
 Tap Collections ().
The Collections screen appears.
Note: You can scroll up or down to display other collections. 
 Tap Years ().
The Years screen appears, and you can navigate to another year.

Tip
How can I move a photo to a different year?
To move a photo to a different year, you need to change the date set in the photo's metadata. You cannot do this with the Photos app, but you can change the date with a third-party app such as Pixelgarde, which is free from the App Store at this writing. Alternatively, if you sync the photos from your computer, you can change the date in the photo on your computer. For example, in Photos on the Mac, select the photo, click Image on the menu bar, and then click Adjust Date and Time.




Browse Photos Using Memories
The Memories feature in the Photos app presents a movie of photos from a particular period of time, such as a given year or a trip to a certain geographical location.
You can customize the settings for a memory. You can either customize them quickly by choosing roughly how long a memory should be and what atmosphere it should have, or you can take complete control and specify exactly which items to include and which music to play.

Browse Photos Using Memories

 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Photos ().
The Photos app opens. 
 Tap Memories (  changes to ).
The Memories screen appears. 
 Tap the memory you want to view.
The screen for the memory opens.
 You can tap Show All to show all the photos.
 You can tap Select to select the photos you want to include. 
 Tap Play ().

The memory starts playing. 
 Tap the screen.
The customization controls appear.
 Tap the desired mood, such as Happy or Gentle.
 Tap Short, Medium, or Long, as needed. 
 For greater control, tap Edit.
The Edit screen appears.
 Choose settings for Title, Title Image, Music, Duration, and Photos & Videos.
 Tap Done.



Browse Photos Using the Map
The Camera app automatically stores the GPS location in each photo and video you take, enabling the Photos app to sort your photos and videos by their locations. Starting from any photo, you can display other nearby photos, identifying them by their locations on the map. You can then browse the photos taken in a particular location.

Browse Photos Using the Map

 In the Photos app, navigate to the photo from which you want to start browsing. 
 Swipe up.
The Places section and the Related section for the photo appear.
 The map in the Places section shows the area in which the photo was taken.
 The Related section shows photos related to the photo from which you started. 
 Tap Show Nearby Photos.

The Map screen appears.
 You can tap Grid to display the places as a list. 
 Tap Show Nearby Photos.
The Photos app displays nearby photos on the map. 
 Tap the place you want to view.
The photos in the place appear.
Note: You can tap Show All to display all the photos in a group. 
 Tap the photo you want to view.
The photo opens.



Browse Photos Using iCloud Photo Sharing
Your iPhone's Photos app includes a feature called iCloud Photo Sharing that enables you to share photos easily with others via iCloud and enjoy the photos they are sharing. You can add other people's shared albums to the Photos app on your iPhone by accepting invitations. You can then browse the photos those people are sharing.
The section "Share Photo Streams with Other People," later in this chapter, shows you how to share your own photos via iCloud Photo Sharing.

Browse Photos Using iCloud Photo Sharing


Accept an Invitation to a Shared Album 
 When you receive an invitation to subscribe to shared photos, open the e-mail message in Mail. 
 Tap Subscribe.
The Photos app becomes active.
The Shared screen appears. 
 Tap the shared album.

The album opens.
 You can tap People to view the list of people with whom the album is shared. 
 Tap the thumbnail for the photo you want to view.
The photo opens.
 You can tap Share () to share the photo with others.
 You can tap Add a comment if you want to add a comment on the photo.
 You can tap Like to like the photo.
Note: Swipe left or right to display other photos. 
 Tap Back ().
The album's screen appears again.



Browse the Latest Activity on iCloud Photo Sharing 
 In the Photos app, tap Shared (  changes to ).
The Shared screen appears. 
 Tap Activity.
Note: The Activity item shows new activity on your shared albums. When you add a shared album, the Activity thumbnail shows the new album's thumbnail.
The Activity screen appears. 
 Swipe up to scroll down.

Other items appear. 
 Tap a photo.
The photo opens. 
 Tap Activity ().
The Activity screen appears. 
 When you finish browsing the latest activity, tap Shared ().
The Shared screen appears.

Tip
How do I remove a shared album?
In the Photos app, tap Shared (  changes to ) to display the Shared screen. Tap Edit to turn on Editing Mode, and then tap Delete () to the left of the stream you want to remove. In the Unsubscribe From dialog that opens, tap Unsubscribe. Tap Done to turn off Editing Mode.





Browse Photos Using Albums
Along with browsing by collections and browsing shared albums, you can browse your photos by albums. The Camera app automatically stores each conventional photo you take in the All Photos album, each burst photo in an album called Bursts, and each video in an album called Videos. You can also create other albums manually from your photos or sync existing albums from your computer.

Browse Photos Using Albums


Open the Photos App and Browse an Album 
 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Photos ().
The Photos app opens. 
 Tap Albums (  changes to ).
The Albums screen appears. 
 Tap the album you want to browse. This example uses the Favorites album.
Note: The All Photos album contains all the photos you take; photos you save from web pages, e-mail messages, instant messages, and social media apps; and photos you edit from other people's streams.

The album appears.
Note: The People album contains faces identified in photos. You can browse the photos in which a particular person appears. 
 Tap the photo you want to view.
The photo opens.
Note: Swipe left to display the next photo or right to display the previous photo. 
 Tap Back ().
The album appears. 
 Tap Albums ().
The Albums screen appears.



Create an Album 
 In the Photos app, tap Albums (  changes to ).
The Albums screen appears. 
 Tap New ().
The New Album dialog opens.
 Type the name to give the album. 
 Tap Save.

The screen for adding photos appears.
 Tap the source of the photos. For example, tap Albums, and then tap the album.
 Tap each photo to add to the collection, placing   on each.
 Tap Done. 
 The album appears on the Albums screen.

Tips
How can I move through a long list of photos more quickly?
You can move through the photos more quickly by using momentum scrolling. Tap and flick up with your finger to set the photos scrolling. As the momentum drops, you can tap and flick up again to scroll further. Tap and drag your finger in the opposite direction to stop the scrolling. 
How can I recover photos I deleted by mistake?
Tap Albums, and then tap Recently Deleted. In the Recently Deleted album, tap Select, tap the photos, and then tap Recover. Alternatively, tap Recover All to recover all the photos without selecting any.





Share Photos Using My Photo Stream
If you have an iCloud account, you can use the My Photo Stream feature to upload your photos to iCloud, making them available to all your iOS devices and your computer.
After you turn on My Photo Stream on your iPhone, other iOS devices, and your Macs or PCs, Photo Stream automatically syncs your 1,000 most recent photos among your devices and your computers.

Share Photos Using My Photo Stream


Turn On My Photo Stream on Your iPhone 
 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Settings ().
The Settings screen appears. 
 Tap Apple ID, the button bearing your Apple ID name.
The Apple ID screen appears. 
 Tap iCloud ().

The iCloud screen appears. 
 Tap Photos ().
The Photos screen appears.
 You can set the iCloud Photo Library switch to On () to store your photo library in iCloud. You do not need to do this to use My Photo Stream.
 Set the Upload to My Photo Stream switch to On (). 
 You can set the Upload Burst Photos switch to On () to upload all bursts of photos instead of only favorite bursts.
 If you also want to share your iCloud photo streams with others, set the iCloud Photo Sharing switch to On (). See the next section, "Share Photo Streams with Other People," for more information. 
 Tap iCloud ().
The iCloud screen appears.



Set Your Mac to Upload Photos to Your Photo Stream 
 Click Apple () and then click System Preferences ().
The System Preferences window opens. 
 Click iCloud ().
The iCloud pane appears.
 Click Photos (  changes to ). 
 Click Options.

The Options dialog opens.
 Click iCloud Photo Library (  changes to ) to use iCloud Photo Library.
 Click My Photo Stream (  changes to ).
 If you want to share photo streams with others, click iCloud Photo Sharing (  changes to ).
 Click Done.
 Click System Preferences and Quit System Preferences.
 Click Photos () on the Dock. 
 In Photos, click Shared.
The Shared screen appears, showing your streams and your family and friends' streams.

Tip
How do I use Photo Stream in Windows?
On Windows, you must install Apple's iCloud for Windows software, which you can download from www.apple.com/icloud/setup/pc.html. Then click Start, click All Apps, and then click iCloud Photos.
In the iCloud Photos window, click Open iCloud. Type your Apple ID and password and then click Sign in. Click Photos (  changes to ). Click Options to display the Photos Options dialog. Click My Photo Stream (  changes to ) and iCloud Photo Sharing (  changes to ). Click Change and select the folder for photos, if necessary. Click OK and then click Apply.





Share Photo Streams with Other People
After turning on iCloud Photo Sharing as described in the previous section, you can create shared photo albums, invite people to subscribe to them, and add photos.
You can also control whether subscribers can post photos and videos to your shared photo album, decide whether to make the album publicly available, and choose whether to receive notifications when subscribers comment on your photos or post their own.

Share Photo Streams with Other People

 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Photos ().
The Photos app opens. 
 Tap Shared (  changes to ).
The Shared screen appears. 
 Tap New ().
The iCloud dialog opens.
 Type the name for the album. 
 Tap Next.

Another iCloud dialog opens.
 Tap Add Contact () to display the Contacts screen, and then tap the contact to add.
 Repeat step 7 to add other contacts as needed. You can also type contact names or tap names that the list automatically suggests. 
 Tap Create.
The Shared screen appears. 
 Tap the new album.

The album's screen appears. 
 Tap Add ().
The Moments screen appears, with the selection controls displayed.
Note: You can navigate to other collections or albums as needed.
 Tap each photo you want to add. 
 Tap Done.
Another iCloud dialog opens.
 Type the text you want to post with the photos. 
 Tap Post.

The album's screen appears. 
 Tap People.
The People screen appears.
 To invite others to the album, tap Invite People.
 Set the Subscribers Can Post switch to On () or Off (), as needed.
 Set the Public Website switch to On () or Off () to control whether to make the album publicly accessible on the iCloud.com website.
 Set the Notifications switch to On () or Off (), as needed. 
 Tap Shared ().
The Shared screen appears.

Tip
If I make a photo album public, how do people find the website?
When you set the Public Website switch on the People screen for a photo album to On (), a Share Link button appears. Tap Share Link to display the Share sheet, and then tap the means of sharing you want to use — for example, Messages, Mail, Twitter, or Facebook.




Share and Use Your Photos and Videos
After taking photos and videos with your iPhone's camera, or after loading photos and videos on the iPhone using iTunes, you can share them with other people.
This section explains how to tweet photos to your Twitter account, assign photos to contacts, use photos as wallpaper, and print photos. Chapter 6 explains how to share items via the AirDrop feature.

Share and Use Your Photos and Videos


Select the Photo or Video to Share 
 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears.
 Tap Photos ().
 On the Photos screen, tap the item that contains the photo or video you want to share. For example, tap an album such as Favorites.
 Tap the photo or video you want to share.
 Tap Share () to display the Share sheet.



Share a Photo on Twitter 
 You can tap the selection button (  changes to ) to include another item in the sharing. 
 On the Share sheet, tap Twitter ().
The Twitter dialog opens.
 Type the text of the tweet. 
 Tap Post.
Your iPhone posts the tweet to Twitter.



Assign a Photo to a Contact 
 On the Share sheet, tap Assign to Contact ().
The list of contacts appears. 
 Tap the contact to which you want to assign the photo.
The Move and Scale screen appears.
 If necessary, move the photo so that the relevant part appears centrally.
 If necessary, pinch in to shrink the photo or pinch out to enlarge it.
 Tap Choose.



Set a Photo as Wallpaper 
 On the Share sheet, tap Use as Wallpaper ().
The Move and Scale screen appears.
 Move the photo to display the part you want.
 If necessary, pinch in to shrink the photo or pinch out to enlarge it.
 Tap Still if you want the photo to be still, or tap Perspective to use perspective movement. 
 Tap Set.
The Set Wallpaper dialog appears.
 Tap Set Lock Screen, Set Home Screen, or Set Both, as needed.

Tip
How do I print a photo?
Display the photo you want to print, and then tap Share () to display the Share sheet. Tap Print () to display the Printer Options screen. If the Printer readout does not show the correct printer, tap Select Printer and then tap the printer. Back on the Printer Options screen, tap Print to print the photo.





Play Slide Shows of Photos
Your iPhone can not only display your photos, but also play a sequence of photos as a slide show. You can choose which theme to use, which music to play, and whether to repeat the slide show when it reaches the end. You can adjust the running speed of the slide show as a whole, but you cannot adjust individual slides.

Play Slide Shows of Photos

 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears.
Note: To play your photos on a bigger screen, either use AirPlay to play a TV connected to an Apple TV or use the Apple Lightning Digital AV Adapter and an HDMI cable to connect your iPhone to a TV or monitor with an HDMI input. 
 Tap Photos ().
The Photos app opens. 
 Navigate to the photo with which you want to start the slide show. For example, tap Photos (  changes to ), tap the appropriate year, tap the appropriate collection, and then tap the moment that contains the photo.
The moment or other photo collection opens. 
 Tap the photo you want to use at the beginning of the slide show.

The photo opens. 
 Tap Share ().
The Share sheet appears. 
 Tap Slideshow ().

The slide show starts playing, using the default theme and music. 
 Tap the screen.
The controls appear.
 You can tap AirPlay () to play the slide show to an Apple TV. 
 Tap Options.

The Slideshow Options screen appears. 
 Tap Theme.
The Themes screen appears. 
 Tap the theme you want.
The Slideshow Options screen appears.
 Tap Music and choose the music to play.
 Set the Repeat switch to On () if you want the slide show to repeat.
 Drag the Speed slider as needed to change the speed. 
 Tap Done.
The slide show resumes, using the settings you chose.
Tip
How do I choose music for a slide show?
First, choose the theme for the slide show, as explained in the main text. When you choose the theme, Photos automatically selects the theme's default music as the music for the slide show.
Next, tap Music on the Slideshow Options screen to display the Music screen. Here, you can either tap a different theme's music in the Theme Music list or tap iTunes Music to select music from your iTunes Music library.










Chapter 12
Advanced Features and Troubleshooting


You can connect your iPhone to VPNs and Exchange Server, troubleshoot problems, and locate it when it goes missing. You can also manage your Apple ID. 
Connect to a Network via VPN
Connect Your iPhone to Exchange Server
Update Your iPhone's Software
Extend Your iPhone's Runtime on the Battery
Back Up and Restore Using Your Computer
Back Up and Restore Using iCloud
Reset Your iPhone's Settings
Troubleshoot Wi-Fi Connections
Locate Your iPhone with Find My iPhone
Manage Your Apple ID


Connect to a Network via VPN
Virtual private networking, or VPN, enables you to connect your iPhone securely to a network across the Internet. For example, you can connect to a network at your workplace — or to your home network, if you set up a VPN server on it.
To set up a VPN connection, you enter the settings, username, and password in the Settings app. You normally get this information from the network's administrator.

Connect to a Network via VPN


Set Up the VPN Connection on the iPhone 
 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Settings ().
The Settings screen appears.
Note: After you have set up a VPN configuration, the VPN switch appears in the top section of the Settings screen. You can connect to the currently selected virtual private network by setting the switch to On (  changes to ). 
 Tap General ().

The General screen appears. 
 Toward the bottom of the screen, tap VPN.
The VPN screen appears. 
 Tap Add VPN Configuration.
Note: If your iPhone already has a VPN configuration you want to use, tap it, and then go to step 1 of the next set of steps, "Connect to the Virtual Private Network."

The Add Configuration screen appears. 
 Tap Type.
The Type screen appears.
 Tap the VPN type: IKEv2, IPSec, or L2TP. 
 Tap Add Configuration ().
The Add Configuration screen appears again. 
 Fill in the details of the virtual private network.
Note: Set the Send All Traffic switch to On () if you want your iPhone to send all Internet traffic across the virtual private network after you connect. 
 Tap Done.
The VPN configuration appears on the VPN screen.



Connect to the Virtual Private Network 
 On the VPN screen, set the Status switch to On (  changes to ).
The iPhone connects to the virtual private network.
 The VPN indicator appears in the status bar.
 Work across the network connection as if you were connected directly to the network.
 To see how long your iPhone has been connected, or to learn its IP address, tap Information ().
 Tap VPN () to return to the VPN screen.
 When you are ready to disconnect from the virtual private network, set the Status switch to Off (  changes to ).

Tips
Is there an easier way to set up a VPN connection?
Yes. An administrator can provide the VPN details in a configuration profile. This is a settings file that the administrator either installs directly on your iPhone or shares via e-mail or a website so that you can install it. Installing the profile adds its settings, such as the VPN details or the settings needed to connect to an Exchange Server system, to your iPhone. You can then connect to the virtual private network. 
What can I do if my iPhone cannot connect to my company's VPN type?
Look in the App Store for an app for that VPN type.





Connect Your iPhone to Exchange Server
You can set up your iPhone to connect to Exchange Server or Office 365 for e-mail, contacts, calendaring, reminders, and notes.
Before setting up your Exchange account, ask an administrator for the connection details you need: your e-mail address, your password, the server name if required, and the domain name if required. You may be able to set up the account using only the e-mail address and password, but often you need the server name and domain as well.

Connect Your iPhone to Exchange Server

 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Settings ().
The Settings screen appears.
Note: If you have not yet set up an e-mail account on the iPhone, you can also open the Add Account screen by tapping Mail () on the iPhone's Home screen. 
 Tap Accounts & Passwords ().

The Accounts & Passwords screen appears. 
 Tap Add Account.
The Add Account screen appears. 
 Tap Exchange.
Note: You can also set up an Exchange account using a configuration profile file that an administrator provides.

The Exchange screen appears.
 Type your e-mail address.
 Type a descriptive name for the account field. 
 Tap Next.
Another screen appears.
 Type your password. 
 Tap Next.
Note: If Mail needs more information, another screen appears. Type the server's address; type the domain, if it is needed; and type your username. Then tap Next.

The Exchange screen appears.
 Set the Mail switch to On () or Off ().
 Set the Contacts switch to On () or Off ().
 Set the Calendars switch to On () or Off (). 
 Set the Reminders switch to On () or Off ().
Note: If the Notes switch appears, set it to On () or Off (), as needed.
 Tap Save. 
 The new account appears on the Mail screen.

Tips
How do I know whether to enter a domain name when setting up my Exchange account?
You need to ask an administrator, because some Exchange implementations require you to enter a domain, whereas others do not. 
How do I set up an Office 365 e-mail account?
Use the method explained in this section, but use outlook.office365.com as the server's address. Your username is typically your full e-mail address; if in doubt, ask an administrator.




Update Your iPhone's Software
Apple periodically releases new versions of the iPhone's software to fix problems, improve performance, and add new features. To keep your iPhone running quickly and smoothly, and to add any new features, update its software when a new version becomes available.
You can update your iPhone's software either directly on the iPhone or by using iTunes on your computer. Both the iPhone and iTunes notify you automatically when an update is available. You can also check for updates manually.

Update Your iPhone's Software


Update Your iPhone's Software on the iPhone 
 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears.
 The badge on the Settings icon indicates that an update is available. 
 Tap Settings ().
The Settings screen appears. 
 Tap General ().

The General screen appears. 
 Tap Software Update.
The Software Update screen appears. 
 Tap Install Now.
The installation procedure begins.
 Follow the prompts to complete the installation.



Update Your iPhone's Software Using iTunes on Your Computer 
 Connect your iPhone to your computer via the USB cable.
The iPhone appears on the navigation bar in iTunes.
A dialog appears, telling you that a new software version is available. 
 Click Update.
iTunes downloads the new software, extracts it, and begins to install it.

When the installation is complete, iTunes displays a dialog telling you that the iPhone will restart in 15 seconds. 
 Click OK, or wait for the countdown to complete.
The iPhone restarts, and its button then appears on the navigation bar in iTunes.
 Disconnect your iPhone from the USB cable. You can now start using the iPhone as usual.

Tip
How do I make iTunes check for a new version of my iPhone's software?
Connect your iPhone to your computer via the USB cable so that the iPhone appears on the navigation bar in iTunes. Click iPhone to display the Summary screen, and then click Check for Update in the upper area.





Extend Your iPhone's Runtime on the Battery
To extend your iPhone's runtime on the battery, you can reduce the power usage by dimming the screen; turning off Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, and cellular data when you do not need them; and setting your iPhone to go to sleep quickly. When the battery reaches 20 percent power, your iPhone prompts you to turn on Low Power Mode, which disables background app refreshing, slows down the processor, and turns off some demanding graphical features. You can also enable Low Power Mode manually anytime you want.

Extend Your iPhone's Runtime on the Battery


Dim the Screen 
 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 On an iPhone X, swipe down from the upper-right corner of the screen. On other iPhone models, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
Control Center opens. 
 Swipe down the Brightness control.
The screen brightness decreases. 
 Tap Close () or anywhere at the top of the screen.
Control Center closes.



Turn Off Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, and Cellular Data 
 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 On an iPhone X, swipe down from the upper-right corner of the screen. On other iPhone models, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
Control Center opens.
 You can turn off all communications by tapping Airplane Mode (  changes to ).
 To turn off Wi-Fi, tap Wi-Fi (  changes to ).
 To turn off Bluetooth, tap Bluetooth (  changes to ).
 To turn off cellular data, tap Cellular Data (  changes to ). 
 Tap Close () or anywhere at the top of the screen.
Control Center closes.



Turn On Low Power Mode Manually 
 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Press Settings ().
The Peek panel opens. 
 Tap Battery ().

The Battery screen appears.
 You can set the Battery Percentage switch to On () to display the battery percentage in the status bar. 
 Set the Low Power Mode switch to On (  changes to ).
The first time you set the Low Power Mode switch to On, the Low Power Mode dialog opens. 
 Tap Continue.
Your iPhone enables Low Power Mode.
 The battery icon appears yellow to indicate that the iPhone is using Low Power Mode.

Tip
What else can I do to save power?
If you do not need your iPhone to track your location, you can turn off the GPS feature. Press Home, tap Settings (), and then tap Privacy () to display the Privacy screen. Tap Location Services () to display the Location Services screen, and then set the Location Services switch to Off ().
You can also set a short time for Auto-Lock. Press Home, tap Settings (), tap Display & Brightness (), and then tap Auto-Lock. Tap a short interval — for example, 1 Minute.





Back Up and Restore Using Your Computer
When you sync your iPhone with your computer, iTunes automatically backs up the iPhone's data and settings, unless you have chosen to back up your iPhone to iCloud instead.
If your iPhone suffers a software or hardware failure, you can use iTunes to restore the data and settings to your iPhone or to a new iPhone, an iPad, or an iPod touch. You must turn off the Find My iPhone feature before restoring your iPhone.

Back Up and Restore Using Your Computer


Back Up Your iPhone 
 Connect your iPhone to your computer via the USB cable or via Wi-Fi.
The iPhone appears on the navigation bar in iTunes. 
 Click iPhone () on the navigation bar.
The iPhone's management screens appear.
 Click Summary if the Summary screen is not yet shown. 
 Click Back Up Now.
iTunes backs up your iPhone.



Turn Off the Find My iPhone Feature on Your iPhone 
 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Settings ().
The Settings screen appears. 
 Tap Apple ID, the button bearing your Apple ID name.
The Apple ID screen appears. 
 Tap iCloud ().

The iCloud screen appears. 
 Tap Find My iPhone ().
The Find My iPhone screen appears. 
 Set the Find My iPhone switch to Off (  changes to ).
The Apple ID Password dialog opens.
 Type the password for your Apple ID. 
 Tap Turn Off.
The iPhone turns off the Find My iPhone feature.



Restore Your iPhone 
 On the Summary screen in the iPhone's management screens, click Restore iPhone.
iTunes asks you to confirm that you want to restore the iPhone to its factory settings. 
 Click Restore.
iTunes backs up the iPhone's data, restores the software on the iPhone, and returns the iPhone to its factory settings.
Note: Do not disconnect the iPhone during the restore process. Doing so can leave the iPhone in an unusable state.
 On the Welcome to Your New Phone screen, click Restore from this backup (  changes to ).
 Click   and choose your iPhone by name. 
 Click Continue.
iTunes restores the data and settings to your iPhone.
Your iPhone restarts, appears on the navigation bar in iTunes, and then syncs.
 Disconnect the iPhone.

Tip
How can I protect confidential information in my iPhone's backups?
On the Summary screen in iTunes, click Encrypt iPhone backup (  changes to ). In the Set Password dialog, type the password, and then click Set Password. iTunes then encrypts your backups using strong encryption.
Apart from protecting your confidential information, encrypting your iPhone also saves your passwords during backup and restores them to the iPhone when you restore the device.





Back Up and Restore Using iCloud
Instead of backing up your iPhone to your computer, you can back it up to iCloud, preferably via Wi-Fi, but optionally — if you have a generous data plan — via the cellular network. If your iPhone suffers a software or hardware failure, you can restore its data and settings from backup.
You can choose which items to back up to iCloud. You do not need to back up apps, media files, or games you have bought from the iTunes Store, because you can download them again.

Back Up and Restore Using iCloud

 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Settings ().
The Settings screen appears. 
 Tap Apple ID, the button bearing your Apple ID name.
The Apple ID screen appears. 
 Tap iCloud ().
Note: The 5GB of storage in a standard free iCloud account is enough space to store your iPhone's settings and your most important data and files.

The iCloud screen appears. 
 Tap Photos.
The Photos screen appears.
 Set the iCloud Photo Library switch to On () if you want to store all your photos in iCloud.
 If you enable iCloud Photo Library, tap Optimize iPhone Storage or Download and Keep Originals, as needed.
 Set the Upload to My Photo Stream switch to On () if you want to upload all your new photos.
 Set the iCloud Photo Sharing switch to On () if you want to share albums with others via iCloud. 
 Tap iCloud ().

The iCloud screen appears again.
 If you need more storage space, tap Manage Storage to display the Manage Storage screen, and then tap Buy More Storage.
 In the Apps Using iCloud section, set each app's switch to On () or Off (), as needed.
 In the nameless lower sections, set each app's switch to On () or Off (), as needed. 
 Set the iCloud Drive switch to On ().

 At the bottom of the Apps Using iCloud section, tap iCloud Backup ().
The Backup screen appears.
 Set the iCloud Backup switch to On (). 
 If you want to back up your iPhone now, tap Back Up Now.
Your iPhone begins backing up its contents to iCloud.

Tip
How do I restore my iPhone from its iCloud backup?
First, reset the iPhone to factory settings. Press Home, tap Settings (), tap General (), tap Reset, and then tap Erase All Content and Settings. Tap Erase iPhone in both the first and the second confirmation dialogs. When the iPhone restarts and displays its setup screens, choose your language and country. On the Set Up iPhone screen, tap Restore from iCloud Backup, and then tap Next. On the Apple ID screen, enter your Apple ID, and then tap Next. On the Choose Backup screen, tap the backup you want to use — normally, the most recent backup — and then tap Restore.




Reset Your iPhone's Settings
If your iPhone malfunctions, you can reset its network settings, reset the Home screen's icons, reset your keyboard dictionary, reset your location and privacy settings, or reset all settings to eliminate tricky configuration issues. If your iPhone has intractable problems, you can back it up, erase all content and settings, and then set it up from scratch. You can also erase your iPhone before selling or giving it to someone else; you must turn off Find My iPhone first.

Reset Your iPhone's Settings


Display the Reset Screen 
 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Settings ().
The Settings screen appears.
Note: If your iPhone is not responding to the Home button or your taps, press and hold the Sleep/Wake button and Home for about 15 seconds to reset the iPhone. 
 Tap General ().

The General screen appears. 
 Tap Reset.
The Reset screen appears.
You can then tap the appropriate button: Reset All Settings, Erase All Content and Settings, Reset Network Settings, Reset Keyboard Dictionary, Reset Home Screen Layout, or Reset Location & Privacy.



Reset Your Network Settings 
 On the Reset screen, tap Reset Network Settings.
Note: If your iPhone prompts you to enter your passcode at this point, do so.
A dialog opens, warning you that this action will delete all network settings and return them to their factory defaults. 
 Tap Reset Network Settings.
iOS resets your iPhone's network settings.



Restore Your iPhone to Factory Settings
Note: If you intend to sell or give away your iPhone, turn off Find My iPhone before restoring your iPhone to factory settings. See the second tip.

 On the Reset screen, tap Erase All Content and Settings.
Note: Enter your passcode if prompted to do so.
A dialog opens to confirm that you want to delete all your media and data and reset all settings. 
 Tap Erase iPhone.
A second dialog opens. 
 Tap Erase iPhone.
iOS wipes your media and data and restores your iPhone to factory settings.

Tips
Does the Reset All Settings command delete my data and my music files?
No. When you reset all the iPhone's settings, the settings go back to their defaults, but your data remains in place. But you need to set the iPhone's settings again, either by restoring them using iTunes or by setting them manually, in order to get your iPhone working the way you prefer. 
How do I turn off the Find My iPhone feature?
Press Home, tap Apple ID — the button bearing your Apple ID name — and then tap iCloud (). Tap Find My iPhone (), and then set the Find My iPhone switch to Off (  changes to ).





Troubleshoot Wi-Fi Connections
To avoid exceeding your data plan, use Wi-Fi networks whenever they are available instead of using your cellular connection.
Normally, the iPhone automatically reconnects to Wi-Fi networks to which you have previously connected it and maintains those connections without problems. But you may sometimes need to request your iPhone's network address again, a process called renewing the lease on the IP address. You may also need to tell your iPhone to forget a network, and then rejoin the network manually, providing the password again.

Troubleshoot Wi-Fi Connections


Renew the Lease on Your iPhone's IP Address 
 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears.
Note: You can sometimes resolve a Wi-Fi problem by turning Wi-Fi off and back on. Swipe up from the bottom of the screen to open Control Center, tap Wi-Fi (  changes to ), and then tap Wi-Fi again (  changes to ). 
 Press Settings ().
The Peek panel opens. 
 Tap Wi-Fi ().
The Wi-Fi screen appears. 
 Tap Information () to the right of the network for which you want to renew the lease.

The network's screen appears. 
 Tap Renew Lease.
The Renew Lease dialog opens.
 Tap Renew Lease. 
 Tap Wi-Fi ().
The Wi-Fi screen appears.



Forget a Network and Then Rejoin It 
 On the Wi-Fi screen, tap Information () to the right of the network.
The network's screen appears. 
 Tap Forget This Network.

The Forget Wi-Fi Network dialog opens. 
 Tap Forget.
The iPhone removes the network's details. 
 Tap Wi-Fi ().
The Wi-Fi screen appears. 
 Tap the network's name.
The Enter Password screen appears.
 Type the password for the network. 
 Tap Join.
The iPhone joins the network.

Tip
What else can I do to reestablish my Wi-Fi network connections?
If you are unable to fix your Wi-Fi network connections by renewing the IP address lease or by forgetting and rejoining the network, as described in this section, try restarting your iPhone. If that does not work, reset your network settings, as described earlier in this chapter, and then set up each connection again manually.





Locate Your iPhone with Find My iPhone
If you have an iCloud account, you can use the Find My iPhone feature to locate your iPhone if it has been lost or stolen. You can also display a message on the iPhone — for example, to tell the finder how to contact you — or remotely wipe the data on the iPhone.
To use Find My iPhone, you must first set up your iCloud account on your iPhone, and then enable the Find My iPhone feature.

Locate Your iPhone with Find My iPhone


Turn On the Find My iPhone Feature 
 Set up your iCloud account on your iPhone as discussed in "Set Up Your iPhone as New Using iCloud" in Chapter 1.
Note: You may have turned on the Find My iPhone feature when setting up your iCloud account. 
 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Settings ().
The Settings screen appears. 
 Tap Apple ID, the button that bears your Apple ID name.
The Apple ID screen appears. 
 Tap iCloud ().

The iCloud screen appears. 
 Tap Find My iPhone ().
The Find My iPhone screen appears.
 Set the Find My iPhone switch to On (  changes to ).
 Set the Send Last Location switch to On (  changes to ) if you want your iPhone to send Apple its location when the battery runs critically low. 
 Tap iCloud ().
The iCloud screen appears. 
 Tap Apple ID ().
The Apple ID screen appears.



Locate Your iPhone Using Find My iPhone 
 On a computer, open a web browser, such as Microsoft Edge, Internet Explorer, Chrome, or Safari.
Note: On an iOS device, use the Find My iPhone app to locate a missing iPhone. You cannot use an Android device.
 Click the Address box. 
 Type www.icloud.com and press   in Windows or   on a Mac.
The Sign in to iCloud web page appears.
 Type your username.
 Type your password. 
 Click Sign In ().

The iCloud site appears, displaying either the Home page or the page you last used.
Note: If you have set up two-step verification on your Apple ID, the Verify Your Identity screen may appear. Click the device to use for verification, and then enter the code sent to the device on the Enter Verification Code screen. In the Trust This Browser? dialog that opens, click Trust or Don't Trust, as appropriate.
Note: If iCloud displays a page other than the Home page, click iCloud and then click Find iPhone () on the pop-up panel. Go to step 8.
 Click Find iPhone ().

Tip
Is it worth displaying a message on my iPhone, or should I simply wipe it?
Almost always, it is definitely worth displaying a message on your iPhone. If you have lost your iPhone and someone has found it, that person may be trying to return it to you. The chances are good that the finder is honest, even if he has not discovered that you have locked the iPhone with a passcode. That said, if you are certain someone has stolen your iPhone, you may prefer simply to wipe it, using the technique explained next.





Find My iPhone is a powerful feature you can use when your iPhone goes missing.
If Find My iPhone reveals someone has taken your iPhone, you can wipe its contents to prevent anyone from hacking into your data. However, know that wiping your iPhone prevents you from locating the iPhone again — ever — except by chance. Wipe your iPhone only when you have lost it, you have no hope of recovering it, and you must destroy the data on it.


The iCloud Find My iPhone screen appears.
 Click the pop-up menu at the top. Normally, this shows All Devices at first.
The My Devices pop-up panel appears. 
 Click your iPhone.
 Your iPhone's location appears.
The Info dialog appears, showing when the iPhone was last located. 
 If you want to play a sound on the iPhone, click Play Sound (). This feature is primarily helpful for locating your iPhone if you have mislaid it somewhere nearby. 

 A message indicates that the iPhone has played the sound.

Lock the iPhone with a Passcode 
 Click Lost Mode () in the Info dialog.

The Lost Mode dialog appears, prompting you to enter a phone number where you can be reached.
 Optionally, click Number and type the number. 
 Click Next.
The Lost Mode dialog prompts you to enter a message.
 Type a message to whoever finds your iPhone. 
 Click Done.
iCloud sends the lock request to the iPhone, which locks itself.



Remotely Erase Your iPhone 
 Click Erase iPhone () in the Info dialog.
The Erase This iPhone? dialog opens.
Note: If this iPhone is the last trusted device for your Apple ID, the Erase Last Trusted Device? dialog opens instead of the Erase This iPhone? dialog. Read the warning about having to use your Recovery Key to access your Apple ID. If you are sure you want to erase the iPhone, click Erase. 
 Click Erase.
iCloud sends the erase request to the iPhone, which erases its data.

Tip
Can I remotely wipe the data on my iPhone if I do not have an iCloud account?
No, not remotely, but you can make the iPhone wipe itself. Set a passcode for the iPhone, as discussed in the section "Secure Your iPhone with Touch ID or Face ID" in Chapter 2, and then set the Erase Data switch on the Touch ID & Passcode screen to On (). This setting makes the iPhone automatically erase its data after ten successive failed attempts to enter the passcode. After five failed attempts, the iPhone enforces a delay before the next attempt; further failures increase the delay.





Manage Your Apple ID
Your iPhone uses your Apple ID for authentication and authorization. Using the Apple ID screen in the Settings app, you can review your Apple ID information and change it if necessary. For example, you may need to change your display name, add a payment method or shipping address, or verify that two-factor authentication is enabled for security. You can also edit the phone numbers and e-mail addresses at which you are reachable via iMessage, FaceTime, and Game Center.

Manage Your Apple ID

 Press Home. On an iPhone X, swipe up from the bottom of the screen.
The Home screen appears. 
 Tap Settings ().
The Settings app opens. 
 Tap Apple ID, the button that shows your Apple ID name.
The Apple ID screen appears.
 To add a photo or update an existing photo, tap the account icon. In the Photo dialog that opens, tap Take Photo or Choose Photo, as appropriate, and then follow the prompts.
Note: At the bottom of the Apple ID screen is a Sign Out button that you can tap to sign out of your account. 
 Tap Name, Phone Numbers, Email.

Note: If the Sign In to iCloud dialog opens, type your password and then tap OK.
The Name, Phone Numbers, Email screen appears.
 You can tap Name and edit your name.
 You can add phone numbers and e-mail addresses to the Reachable At list by tapping Edit and then tapping Add Email or Phone Number.
 In the News & Announcements section, set the switches to On () or Off () to control which messages you receive. 
 Tap Apple ID ().
The Apple ID screen appears again. 
 Tap Password & Security.

The Password & Security screen appears.
 You can tap Change Password and follow the prompts to change your Apple ID password.
 Verify that the Two-Factor Authentication button shows On. If not, follow the prompts to enable two-factor authentication. 
 You can tap Edit and then change your trusted phone numbers.
 You can tap Get Verification Code to get a code for signing in on another device or at iCloud.com. 
 Tap Apple ID ().
The Apple ID screen appears. 
 Tap Payment & Shipping.
The Payment & Shipping screen appears.
 You can tap Add Card to add a payment method.
 You can tap Add a Shipping Address to add a shipping address. 
 Tap Apple ID ().

The Apple ID screen appears. 
 Tap the button for your phone.
The Device Info screen appears.
 Verify that the Find My iPhone button shows On. If not, tap Find My iPhone and set the Find My iPhone switch to On (). 
 You can view your phone's details. 
 Tap Apple ID ().
The Apple ID screen appears. 
 Tap iTunes & App Stores.
The iTunes & App Stores screen appears.
 In the Automatic Downloads area, set each switch to On () or Off (), as needed.
Tips
How do I use a different Apple ID for the iTunes and App Store?
On the iTunes & App Stores screen, tap Apple ID. In the Apple ID dialog that opens, tap Sign Out. Tap Apple ID again to open the Apple ID Sign-in Requested dialog. Type the Apple ID and password you want to use, and then tap Sign In. 
What does the Offload Unused Apps switch control?
Set the Offload Unused Apps switch to On () if you want iOS to delete apps you have not used for a while. iOS keeps any documents you created in the app.












WILEY END USER LICENSE AGREEMENT


Go to www.wiley.com/go/eula to access Wiley's ebook EULA.





