



Searching for Your Ancestors in Historic Newspapers

Claudia C. Breland








Copyright © 2014 Claudia C. Breland
Genealogy and Online Research
Gig Harbor, Washington
All rights reserved.
No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system or transmitted, in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording or otherwise, without proper written permission from the author. The only exception is a reviewer; a reviewer may quote brief passages in a review
 
Title page image: The Omaha Sunday Bee, 6 February 1916; digital image; Chronicling America (http://www.chroniclingamerica.loc.gov:
accessed 3 Sept. 2014).
ISBN-13: 978-1500407094
ISBN-10: 1500407097
Library of Congress Control Number: 2014915792









Contents
IntroductionTreasures in Newsprint   Obituaries   Birth Announcements:   Engagements and Marriages:   Criminal Activity   Shipwrecks   Golden Wedding Anniversaries   Family Reunions   Divorces   Hotel Stays   Military Service   Letters from Loved Ones   The Latest Fashions   Organization and Society Meetings   Religious Gatherings   Bankruptcy   Weather Reports   Ship arrivals   Land Sales   Military Pensions   Journal Entries   Social HistoryResearch Tips   Quick Tips for Newspaper Research:   Optical Character Recognition (OCR)Finding the Newspaper You Need   WorldCat:   Benzie County (Mich.) - Newspapers   FamilySearch Wiki   U.S. GenWeb:   Online Searchable Death Indexes   Ancestor Hunt   Directories:   Citing Your SourcesFree Newspaper Databases   Chronicling America   Google News Archive   Newspaper Search Engines   Elephind   Mocavo   Recent Obituary Websites   Legacy.com   ObitsArchive   Burned Counties, Burned Newspaper OfficesSubscription Databases   Ancestry   Newspapers.com   Fold3   GenealogyBank   Find My Past   Paper of Record   Icon: International Coalition on Newspapers   Join a Society, Receive Access to Paid DatabasesLibraries and Their Resources   Nationwide Databases   Local History IndexesMicrofilm and Interlibrary Loan   Newspapers on Microfilm   How to Read a Library Catalog Entry   Allegan County (Mich.) - - Newspapers   Using Interlibrary LoanState by State Listing   Alabama   Alaska   Arizona   Arkansas   California   Colorado   Connecticut   Delaware   District of Columbia   Florida   Georgia   Hawaii   Idaho   Illinois   Indiana   Iowa   Kansas   Kentucky   Louisiana   Maine   Maryland   Massachusetts   Michigan   Minnesota   Mississippi   Missouri   Montana   Nebraska   Nevada   New Hampshire   New Jersey   New Mexico   New York   North Carolina   North Dakota   Ohio   Oklahoma   Oregon   Pennsylvania   Puerto Rico   Rhode Island   South Carolina   South Dakota   Tennessee   Texas   U.S. Virgin Islands   Utah   Vermont   Virginia   Washington   West Virginia   Wisconsin   WyomingInternational Newspapers   Afghanistan   Argentina   Australia   Austria   Belgium   Brazil   Bulgaria   Burma   Canada   Caribbean   China   Croatia   Cyprus   Cuba   Denmark   Egypt   Estonia   Europe   Faroe Islands   Finland   France   Germany   Greece   Ireland   Hungary   India   Ireland   Israel   Italy   Latvia   Liechtenstein   Luxembourg   Mexico   Netherlands   New Zealand   Norway   Poland   Portugal   Romania   Singapore   Slovenia   Spain   Switzerland   United Kingdom   VietnamAbout the Author










Introduction

If you've done some research on your family history, and have never looked for your ancestors in historic newspapers, you're missing out on an important resource. Not only will newspapers provide missing names, dates, places, relationships and events, but they will also provide a glimpse into what your ancestors' lives were like, in recent times and in the distant past.
 
No one needs to tell you that genealogy research has changed dramatically in the last few years. Thousands of pages of historic newspapers are being digitized and placed online. But if you've looked at those databases and haven't found the names you're researching, you haven't exhausted all the possibilities. What about the newspapers that exist only on microfilm? What about the libraries and historical societies that provide indexes (and sometimes scanned images) on their websites? What about the libraries that have card files filled with newspaper clippings? What about the finding aids that can tell you what newspapers were published in 1890 in the county or state your great-great-grandparents were from?
 
What I hope to show you in this book is all the resources that are available for tracking down those newspaper articles. Newspapers carry more than just obituaries, and I have illustrated some of the fascinating items I have found in over forty years of research. There are obituaries, birth notices, marriage (and divorce) announcements, shipwrecks, family reunions, bankruptcies, crime reports, and wedding anniversaries.
Here you will find information about free genealogy databases, and a list of subscription websites and how to use them. I have provided a listing of the genealogy societies that include, as part of their membership benefits, remote access to some important resources such as Early American Newspapers or NewspaperArchive.
 
For all the newspapers that are digitized and online, there are thousands more waiting on rolls of microfilm in libraries, archives and universities across the country. I'll tell you how you can find those, and how to order them through interlibrary loan.
 
More and more public libraries are setting up Local History and Genealogy departments, and some of them are putting indexes to their local newspapers online. Most of these libraries and historical societies will provide a paper or scanned copy of the original newspaper article for free or a small fee.
 
The second part of this book is a state-by-state listing of the following:
 
Libraries with newspaper indexes
Genealogy societies with newspaper indexes
Digitized newspaper collections
Microfilmed newspaper collections
 
My main focus in this book is on U.S. resources, but I've also included a chapter on International Newspaper collections.
 
Get ready to make some new discoveries!









Treasures in Newsprint

If your main focus in finding a newspaper article about your ancestor is the obituary section, then you may be missing out on some wonderful news stories. Here is a sampling of some of the items you might look for:
 
Discover from newspaper accounts what your ancestors' personalities were like. Was he a scoundrel, or a pillar of the community? Was she friendly and outgoing, or reserved and quiet?
 
Find detailed descriptions of flowery weddings and somber funerals. In both cases, discover some of the other family members who were in attendance.
 
Track down collateral descendants from the lists of relatives from out of town, attending family reunions and golden wedding anniversaries.
 
Find announcements of birth, marriage, and death, not only for your direct ancestors, but their parents, siblings, aunts, uncles and cousins.
 
Confirm or disprove family stories. Many family stories have a grain of truth at the heart - can you find it?
 
Find announcements of bankruptcies, crimes committed and acquitted, and new businesses opening and closing.
 
Read letters sent home from the front lines of historic wars. Were the soldiers being truthful about their experiences, or were they putting up a brave front for the sake of their families back home?
 
Find announcements of wills being probated and people being taken to court.
 
Newspapers are fascinating, and we are continually drawn to reading the news - seeing our own names in print, finding out who graduated and who's getting married, and what's happening in the world. Our ancestors were no different.
 
These are just some of the types of articles you can find in newspapers:
 
Obituaries
Birth, Marriage and Death Announcements
Divorces
Crimes and Criminals
Bankruptcy and Business Successes & Failures
Shipwrecks and tales of those lost and those who survived
Family Reunions
Golden Wedding Anniversaries
Out of Town Visitors
Letters from the Home Front
Organization and Society Meetings
Weather Reports
Social History
Legal Notices









Obituaries

This obituary for Henry Smith in the Tacoma News Tribune of 19 March 1941 notes that he was born in England, and how long he'd lived in Tacoma:

"Henry Albert Smith," Tacoma (WA) News Tribune, 19 March 1941, p.17, col. 4.
 
Although Jonathan Dunham died in South Dakota, this article was published in his home town of Ithaca, New York.

"Jonathan Dunham," Ithaca (NY) Journal, 11 March 1914.
 
The supposed suicide of Mrs. Henry Jones was reported at great length in her hometown newspaper:

"Suicide," Hillsdale (MI) Standard, 5 June 1883, p.5, col. 2.
 
Other newspapers around the state of Michigan reported on the coroner's findings on this case.

"Death of Mrs. Henry Jones," Jackson (MI) Citizen-Patriot, 8 June 1883, p.4, col. 4; digital image; GenealogyBank (http://www.genealogybank.com: accessed 29 Aug 2014)
 
A 1971 Seattle Times obituary for John McKenzie mentioned that he was a member of the Washington Scottish Pipe Band. Contacting that group resulted in receiving some photographs that his niece in Australia had never seen before. Always make a note of any organizations the deceased belonged to.

"McKenzie, John M. "Jock"," Seattle Post-Intelligencer, 15 May 1971, p.41, col. 6.
 

Birth Announcements:

Although Michigan began recording births in 1867, some records were missed, or were never recorded. There is no official record of the birth of Bessie Blanche Randall in Manistee, Michigan on 10 November 1898, but two birth announcements verify that fact:
 
"Mrs. Claudia Thompson Randall of Parkdale presented her husband with a fine baby girl this morning, weight eight and one half pounds."
- Manistee (MI) Daily News, 11 Nov. 1898
 
"Stacy Thompson, the genial mayor of Parkdale, has again been made a grandpa, by the birth of an 8 ½ pound girl to his daughter, Mrs. Claudia Randall last night."
- Manistee (MI) Daily Advocate, 11 Nov. 1898
 
The Lima Daily News in Ohio told of the birth of triplets to a farmer in 1890:

"Wife of Jeff Lusk," Lima (OH) Daily News, 10 May 1890, p.8, col. 1; digital image; NewspaperArchive (http://www.newspaperarchive.com: accessed from public library website, 29 Aug 2014.)
 
Later newspapers would tell of the tragic deaths of the infants, followed by their mother's death from consumption just weeks later.
 

Engagements and Marriages:

Ever since women discovered the Society Pages, there have been engagement and wedding announcements in the newspaper. Some papers published the announcements several weeks after the event, so be sure to extend your search longer than one week after the date of the wedding.

"Wedding Bells," Manistee (MI) Daily News, 26 Jan. 1898, p.3, col. 4.
 
This wedding announcement for Claudia Thompson and Herbert Randall of Manistee, Michigan can only be found on microfilm.
 
Society pages describe society life was like for a new bride being entertained at parties and showers:

"Shower for Bride," Pulaski (NY) Democrat, 20 Sept. 1916; digital image; NYS Historic Newspapers (http://www.nyshistoricnewspapers.org: accessed 1 Sept. 2014):  
 
Here's an unusual marriage announcement: this bridegroom was shot on the way to his wedding:

"Lieut. Pettit Married," Washington (DC) Evening Star, 26 Nov. 1886, p.4, col. 4; digital image; Chronicling America (http://www.chroniclingamerica.loc.gov: accessed 1 Sept 2014)
 

Criminal Activity

Where there are people, there will be crimes - solved and unsolved.

"No Clue to the Bank Robbers," Daily Arkansas Gazette, 17 August 1882, p.1, col. 4; digital image; GenealogyBank (http://www.genealogybank.com: accessed 29 Aug 2014).
 

"Mrs. Atkinson Disappointed," Gulf Coast (FL) Breeze, 22 Oct. 1897, p.5, col. 2; digital image; Chronicling America (http://www.chroniclingamerica.loc.gov: accessed 29 Aug. 2014)
 

Shipwrecks

When the main method of travel was by ship, sometimes the inevitable shipwrecks happened:

"Schooner Lynx," New Bedford (MA) Mercury, 8 June 1821; digital image; Early American Newspapers (accessed from http://www.americanancestors.org: 29 Aug 2014).
 
If you have newspaper clippings at home that have been pasted on cardboard or placed in a photo album, you will want to go after an original copy. Here is the laminated copy of a front page story in the Manistee News-Advocate of 21 October, 1916.

"Two Manistee Men Aboard Barge," Manistee News-Advocate, 21 Oct. 1916. Privately held by author, 2014.
 
This laminating was done decades ago, by someone who didn't know how to care for newsprint. There are many archival companies online that can assist with storing your historic newspapers.
 
A quick search online revealed this article from
The Cincinnati Enquirer, complete with photo:

"Lake Steamer Taking Final Plunge," Cincinnati (OH) Enquirer, 23 Oct. 1916, p.1, col. 6; digital image; Newspapers.com (http://www.newspapers.com: accessed 29 Aug 2014).
 
A notice in a New York newspaper in the fall of 1818 told of the successful voyage of the first steamship on the Erie Canal:

"Walk in the Water," Otsego (NY) Herald, 14 September 1818, p.2, col. 4; digital image; Early American Newspapers, (accessed on http://www.americanancestors.org: 29 Aug 2014).
 

Golden Wedding Anniversaries

A wedding was news, and so were wedding anniversaries. This one mentioned the birth dates and places of the husband and wife, the wife's maiden name, and when and where they were married. It also tells where they moved during their marriage, and the name of their married daughter.

"Golden Wedding at Nashua," Farmer's Cabinet (Amherst, NH), 25 Nov. 1869, p.2, col. 4; digital image; GenealogyBank (http://www.genealogybank.com: accessed 29 Aug 2014)
 
A wedding date might be found in a "25 Years Ago Today" article, like this one from the Lincoln (NE) State Journal of 27 June 1924:

 

 

Family Reunions

Family get-togethers are always a reason to celebrate, and if there are lots of people coming from out of town, they may be mentioned in the newspaper.
 
In the Shreveport, LA Progress of 22 August 1896, E.C. Lambeth wrote about attending a family reunion hosted by a sister he had not seen in 22 years.
 
Five generations of the Ragsdale family gathered in Moberly, Missouri in the early days of January, 1901, as detailed in an article in the St. Louis Republic of 9 January. Mrs. Charles Ragsdale had 61 grandchildren, 81 great-grandchildren, and 4 great-great-grandchildren.
 

Divorces

Anyone who thinks that divorce is a recent development doesn't know much about history, or human nature. Evidence of unhappy marriages appeared frequently, as this notice in the Rutland (VT) Herald on 9 July 1839:
 
NOTICE
 
Whereas June my wife refuses to bed and board or live with me, this is to forbid all persons harboring or trusting her on my account as I shall pay no debts of her contracting after this date.
Shrewsbury, June 20                             THOMAS W. CHENEY
 
A divorce notice in the newspaper is a clue to go request the divorce records from the county courthouse or state archives.
By 1922, The Seattle Star was publishing a list of "Divorces Granted", along with their columns of births, marriage licenses, and deaths.
Some, notices of divorces granted will be listed under District Court news:

"District Court," St. Paul (MN) Daily Globe, 10 Mar. 1896, p.6, col. 4; digital image; Chronicling America (http://www.chroniclingamerica.loc.gov: accessed 29 Aug 2014)
 

Hotel Stays

Our ancestors didn't have much privacy, when even their hotel visits were announced.

"Ocala Occurrences," Ocala (FL) Evening Star, 29 May 1908, p.5, col. 1; digital image; Chronicling America (http://www.chroniclingamerica.loc.gov: accessed 30 Aug. 2014)
 

Military Service

This 1886 news item was a clue to look for military records for Coleman Hicks during the Civil War.
 

"City News in General, "Jeffersonville (IN) Daily Evening News, 14 Aug. 1886, p.4, col. 2; PDF download, Newspaper Archive (accessed from public library: 1 Sept 2014).
 
It's thrilling to read a contemporary account of a battle your ancestor was involved in. Newspapers around the country reported the taking of Fort Ticonderoga in 1775:

"Cambridge," Providence Gazette and Country Journal, 20 May 1775, p.2, col. 3; digital image; Early American Newspapers, accessed from American Ancestors (http://www.americanancestors.org: 1 Sept. 2014)
 

Letters from Loved Ones

During times of war, families left waiting at home cherished letters from their soldiers, and shared them with friends and neighbors. Many of these made it into the newspaper, as this one from William Spencer, published in the Newberry SC News and Herald, 1 Oct. 1918:
 

"A Letter From the Front," The Herald and News (Newberry, SC), p.2, col. 3; digital image; Chronicling America (http://www.chroniclingamerica.loc.gov: accessed 29 Aug. 2014).
 
Even if your particular soldier didn't have a letter published, some of his wartime buddies may have, giving you an idea of what his life was like.
 

The Latest Fashions

Fashion in clothing and hairstyles can be found in newspapers, especially after the advent of "Society Pages" in the late nineteenth century. These pages can be a helpful tool in dating your own family photographs.

"Our Clothes a Treat for Men," Omaha Daily Bee, 13 Oct. 1906, p.11, col. 2; digital image; Chronicling America, (http://www.chroniclingamerica.loc.gov: accessed 1 Sept 2014).
 

"Society Girls Soon to be Brides," San Francisco Call, 11 Nov. 1900, p.13, col. 1; digital image; Chronicling America, (http://www.chroniclingamerica.loc.gov: accessed 1 Sept 2014).
 

Organization and Society Meetings

Newspapers were full of information about meetings and organizations - not only reporting upcoming meetings, but also informing the community of actions taken.
 
After the Civil War, the surviving Union Veterans formed the Grand Army of the Republic, which was active until the 1950s. They sponsored parades during Memorial Day, had encampments during the summer, and held local and national meetings:

"The Last Day's Work," Paw Paw (MI) True Northerner, 14 Sept. 1898, p.2, col. 1; digital image; Chronicling America (http://www.chroniclingamerica.loc.gov: accessed 29 Aug 2014).
 
If your ancestor was a member of a fraternal order (Eastern Star, Masons, Odd Fellows, etc.) be sure to look for the activities of those groups.
 

Religious Gatherings

In our ancestors' lives, church and religion played a big part. Church gatherings and conventions made the news, as this 1901 General Convention of the Episcopal Church in San Francisco:

"Episcopalian Church Convention," San Francisco Call, 3 Oct. 1901, p.1, col. 1; digital image; Chronicling America, (http://www.chroniclingamerica.loc.gov: accessed 29 Aug. 2014).
 
In the Memphis (TN) Daily Ledger of 6 July 1868, a whole column was devoted to church picnics:
 
The St. Mary's picnic, at the Ford Place, in Chelsea, given with a view to raising funds for the completion of Father Snyder's Church edifice, was rather slimly attended during the forenoon. As evening approached, however, the party was greatly increased in numbers by additional arrivals from the city, until finally the grounds were crowded. Here, too, the day was happily spent, the most palatable refreshments liberally served, a spirited dance indulged in, and, in brief, every pastime instituted to fledge the moments with golden wings.
 

Bankruptcy

If someone had the bad fortune to go bankrupt, often the sale of their home or business was advertised in the newspaper. Just before Christmas, 1923, Catherine Gallavan had to sell her home in Trenton, New Jersey:
 

"For Sale," Trenton (NJ) Evening Times, 16 Dec. 1923, p.32, col. 6, GenealogyBank, (http://www.genealogybank.com: accessed 29 Aug 2014).
 
In the years just after the Civil War, newspapers in Raleigh, North Carolina were full of notices of bankruptcy:

"Notices in Bankruptcy," The Tri-Weekly (NC) Standard, 23 June 1868, p.4, col. 3; digital image; Chronicling America (http://www.chroniclingamerica.loc.gov: accessed 29 Aug 2014).
 

Weather Reports

Weather is a never-failing topic of interest, especially for our ancestors, when it affected their daily lives. Knowledge of blizzards and droughts were vitally important.

"Springdale," Canton (Dakota Territory) Advocate, 26 Jan. 1888, p.4, col. 1; digital image; Chronicling America (http://www.chroniclingamerica.loc.gov: accessed 29 Aug 2014).
 

"Severe Drought is Affecting Capital," Washington (DC) Times, p.1, col. 6; digital image; Chronicling America (http://www.chroniclingamerica.loc.gov: accessed 31 Aug 2014).
 

Ship arrivals

Back when shipping was such an important part of commerce and travel, the daily schedules of comings and goings were often published in the paper.

"Arrived at San Francisco," San Francisco Chronicle, 18 Sept. 1900, p.12, col. 3; digital image; Newspapers.com (http://www.newspapers.com: accessed 29 Aug 2014).
 

"Personal," Wall Street (NY) Journal, 1 Sep 1910, p.8, col. 5; digital image; Newspapers.com (http://www.newspapers.com: accessed 29 Aug. 2014).
 

Land Sales

If your ancestor bought or sold land, there might be a notice in the newspaper.

"Land for Sale," Republican Star and General Advertiser (MD), 23 Jan. 1823, p.1, col. 1; Early American Newspapers (accessed from http://www.americanancestors.org: 29 Aug 2014).
 

"Farm for Sale," Princeton (MN) Union, 21 April 1880, p.1, col. 3; digital image; Chronicling America (http://www.chroniclingamerica.loc.gov: accessed 29 Aug 2014).
 

Military Pensions

Many of the men who fought in the Civil War, and drew pensions afterwards had their pay raises published in the local newspaper:

"Pension Granted to Mrs. M. A. Kemp," Washington (D.C.) Times, 18 Dec. 1909, p.5, col. 6; digital image, Chronicling America (http://www.chroniclingamerica.loc.gov: accessed 29 Aug 2014)
 

"Pensions Granted," Vermont Watchman, 8 May 1889, p.6, col. 1; digital image; Chronicling America (http://www.chroniclingamerica.loc.gov: accessed 29 Aug 2014)
 

Journal Entries

Quite often newspapers would publish interesting journal entries as provided by their readers. In 1891 Fred Page Tibbits of Eau Claire, Wisconsin, provided a lovely description of his trip to Florida:

"A Leaf from a Journal," Centralia (WI) Enterprise and Tribune, 14 March 1891, p.4, col. 2; digital image; Newspapers.com (http://www.newspapers.com: accessed 29 Aug. 2014).
 
Local histories were often published in newspapers.
 

"Centennial History of The Town of Dryden," Dryden Herald, 30 June 1897.
 

Social History

Don't forget, in your quest to find information about your ancestors, that newspapers were telling the story of life as they were living it. Social history and events of the past affect the way we live now. Andrew Carnegie changed the focus of libraries when he donated money for free public libraries in the U.S. and abroad, as this 1901 article shows:

"Elkhart's Good Fortune," The Independent (Marshall County, IN), 27 Dec. 1901, p.4, col. 3; digital image; Chronicling America, (http://www.chroniclingamerica.loc.gov: accessed 29 Aug 2014)
 
Advertisements like this one for a typewriter illustrate advances in the latest technology.

"The Typewriter for Personal Use," Pullman (WA) Herald, 12 May 1922, p.7, col. 3; digital image; Chronicling America, (http://www.chroniclingamerica.loc.gov: accessed 30 Aug 2014).









Research Tips

When you're searching for newspaper articles about your ancestors, whether online or offline, there are some things to keep in mind to make your research more effective.
 
For any event in your ancestor's life, look for a newspaper article. Often, one discovery will lead to another search. An obituary may name surviving children, with daughters' married names. A golden wedding anniversary announcement may tell where the couple was married.
 

Quick Tips for Newspaper Research:

Try searching the surname only, without the first name. Many newspaper articles used initials rather than given names.
 
Try several variations of the last name:
Barnes and Barns
Hickox and Hickock
Beam and Beem
Prosser, Prossor, Presser
Strunk and Strunck
Reed, Read, Reade, Reid
 
Search state wide for newspaper articles - if your ancestor was well-known, the obituary could be in another newspaper.
 
If a town had several newspapers during the same time period, check all of them.
 
Check the newspapers in your ancestor's previous place of residence.
 
Make note of title changes - newspapers changed titles, often when a new owner or editor took over.
 
Don't limit your dates - search several years before and after the date you're focusing on.
 
Read a month's worth of a newspaper in your ancestor's home town, to get a flavor of what daily life was like.
 
Although a newspaper can be considered an original document, with primary or secondary information, that does not mean the information you find there is always correct. Names can be misspelled, family members left out of announcements (accidentally or on purpose), dates and places can be wrong. As with all genealogical records you find, compare and contrast the information you find in newspapers with other records.
 
Keep in mind that there is a difference between a transcription of newspaper articles, and the original. Especially in cases where there is no citation, make it a point to go after the original. For example, many memorial pages online include an obituary which is transcribed. The original newspaper may have additional articles on subsequent pages.
 

Optical Character Recognition (OCR)

Optical character recognition is the process that a computer uses to scan images and recognize readable text that can be indexed. It's an imperfect science, and really depends on the quality of the images being scanned. If the text is too dark or blurry to make out, then it won't be indexed. Sometimes it takes human eyes, which will recognize the words we're looking for, to spot the text in a blurry image.
 
Often it takes a sixth sense, and knowledge of the subject of your search, to read the OCR results. Here is a screenshot of my search in NewspaperArchive for the name "Varran" in Michigan:
 

 
The only useful result was the first one, from the Marshall Statesman.
 
Some newspapers are digitized and placed online without attempting to do optical character recognition, because the results are less than satisfactory. A good example is this clipping from the Emmet County (MI) Democrat from 1875:

Emmet County (MI) Democrat, 16 July 1875, p.1, col. 5; PDF download, Greenwood Cemetery (http://www.gwood.us/newspaper-research: accessed 30 Aug 2014)
 
If you are ever in doubt as to whether your ancestor's name was indexed, take the time to browse the pages. Your eye may catch what the computer doesn't see.









Finding the Newspaper You Need

The U.S. Newspaper Program was created several years ago in a collaborative effort to preserve our nation's history as told in historic newspapers.
 
However, it's a mistake to depend only on newspapers that are online. Public libraries, university libraries, archives and historical societies across the country are the repositories for thousands of rolls of microfilm. Any thorough search for news stories about your ancestors should include not only the newspapers that are digitized and easily searchable, but also those that may require looking at microfilm.
 
But how do you go about finding the newspapers that were published in the time and locality that you're interested in? Here are some online resources that can help.
 

WorldCat:

http://www.worldcat.org
This is an online catalog to the world's libraries. As well as listing books, DVDs, CDs, and articles, it also lists library holdings of historic newspapers.
 
Keep in mind that WorldCat does not list every library owning these items; it only lists the libraries that subscribe to their service.

 
Here I've clicked on the "Everything" tab, and typed in "Beulah, Michigan". I'd like to know what newspapers are available for this little village in northwestern Michigan.
 
There are 248 items resulting from this search. If I click "Newspapers" to the left that reduces the results to 3 titles the Benzie Record, the Benzie Record-Banner, and the Benzie Banner.
 

If I click on the 3rd title, Benzie Banner, I get this screen, which tells me which libraries have it:
 

 
This screen shows me that the Library of Michigan owns this title, and even how far away it is from my home zip code!
 
In order to do some additional sleuthing, I can click on the subject heading for newspapers for Benzie County:
 

Benzie County (Mich.) - Newspapers

 
It turns out that there are actually 16 entries for newspapers in this county, including the Frankfort Weekly Express, the Thompsonville News, and Fruit and Farm News. Always check out the other newspapers in the county where your ancestors lived.
 

FamilySearch Wiki

https://familysearch.org/learn/wiki/en/Main_Page
The FamilySearch Wiki is a great resource for information on any location you're researching. To start using it, go to FamilySearch (http://www.familysearch.org) and go to Search, and then Wiki.
 
The web page for United States Newspapers is here:
https://familysearch.org/learn/wiki/en/United_States_Newspapers
 
Toward the bottom of this page, there is a directory of states and territories, with links that will take you to those pages.
 

U.S. GenWeb:

http://www.usgenweb.org
U.S. GenWeb began in 1996 as a coordinated volunteer-driven guide to genealogical resources within each state and county in the United States. Because it is a volunteer effort, the contents of each county website can vary in quality, but you're almost sure to find something helpful.
 
Many county websites have a list of newspapers published within that county. For example, the web page for Saginaw County, Michigan has a list of newspapers and when they were published, alphabetically by town:
 
http://www.mifamilyhistory.org/saginaw/newspapers.asp
 

Online Searchable Death Indexes

http://www.deathindexes.com
This is a wonderful directory, continually kept up to date by Joe Beine, which has links to online collections of death records, obituaries, probate records, and cemetery and burial records. It's organized by state, and then by county or major metropolitan area. Each state page begins with any state-wide indexes, including links for recent obituaries. Paid sites such as Ancestry are noted, as well as links to state health departments for write-in requests for death certificates. The information online is provided by libraries, historical societies, genealogical societies, and archives.
 

Ancestor Hunt

http://www.theancestorhunt.com/newspapers.html
This is a new blog and website created by Kenneth Marks, that has a directory, by state and then by county, of digitized online newspapers in the United States. This is a great place to check if you want to know what titles Google News Archives, GenealogyBank or Newspaper Archive has for your place of interest. In addition, you can submit your email address to be advised of updates.
 

Directories:

 
Louisiana State University Directory of Digitized Newspapers:
http://www.lib.lsu.edu/digital/dlnp/directory_digitized_newspapers.html
This is a directory of online newspapers by state, including many university library special collections. Also included are General Resources and Multi-State Resources.
Directory to Online Historical Newspapers:
https://sites.google.com/site/onlinenewspapersite/Home/usa/
Created by professional genealogist Miriam Robbins of Spokane, Washington, this is a directory of online newspapers for Australia, Canada, Ireland, Mexico and the United States. Each state has a listing by county & city that describes the name of the newspaper, years covered, cost, and a link to the database.
 
University of Pennsylvania Library Guide to Historical U.S. Newspapers Online:
http://guides.library.upenn.edu/historicalnewspapersonline
This is a directory to free online newspaper databases, including Chronicling America and local and regional libraries. It does not include collections from subscription databases such as GenealogyBank.
 
Wikipedia List of Online Newspaper Archives
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:List_of_online_newspaper_archives
This is a list of worldwide free and subscription digital online newspapers. In cases where a newspaper is available free (from a library) and from a subscription database, both are listed. This listing is not complete - several newspapers are missing from the list, and it does not seem to include links for newspapers on Newspapers.com.
 
Directory of State Archives
http://www.statearchivists.org/states.htm
With any family history research project, you should always become familiar with the resources at the state archives.
 

Citing Your Sources

An essential part of any genealogical research project is the citation. Newspapers are generally fairly easy to cite. For an article from the original paper or the microfilmed copy:
 
"John Reiter, Pioneer, Dies," Aberdeen (WA) Daily World, 10 Feb. 1947, p.1, col. 1.
 
From an online resource the citation would look like this:
 
"Mrs. Woodward Dies at 81; Dallas Resident Since 1900," Dallas (TX) Morning News, p.11, col. 4; digital image; GenealogyBank (http://www.genealogybank.com: accessed 23 Aug 2014).
 
In addition, if you've retrieved the obituary from a library that has the only existing copy of a newspaper, you may want to note that as well.
 
For additional information on citing your sources, see Evidence Explained, by Elizabeth Shown Mills.









Free Newspaper Databases

When you're searching for newspaper articles about your ancestors or the places they lived, there are free websites that are treasure troves of information.
 

Chronicling America

http://chroniclingamerica.loc.gov/
 
The Library of Congress, established in 1800 by James Madison and Thomas Jefferson, is one of the largest libraries in the world. Far from being just a repository for books, however, they have a vast online collection of digital items. These include maps, prints and photographs, manuscripts, films and sound recordings - and of course, newspapers.
 
Chronicling America is a searchable website of digitized newspapers, produced by the National Digital Newspaper Program, a joint effort of the Library of Congress and the National Endowment for the Humanities. It covers 1836 to 1922, and includes newspapers from 39 states. This is an ongoing project, and the newspapers that are included are chosen for many different reasons: the area covered within the state, their importance in the community, and from recommendations from local librarians.
 
From the home page you can do a simple search, an advanced search, or look at a listing of all the digitized newspapers, organized by state. In this listing you can narrow your search by ethnicities or languages. Newspapers after 1922 are not included because they are copyrighted.
 

 
The Advanced Search tab enables you to select a state, a particular newspaper, configure the date range you're interested in, and search using one keyword, several keywords, or a phrase.
 
An important section of the Chronicling America website is the US Newspaper Directory, 1690-present. There are several options for searching: there is an alphabetical list of titles, or you can search by state, county, and city, and narrow the date range. This is invaluable for looking up newspapers that have not been digitized.
 
For example, I have a great-uncle who died in Paw Paw, Van Buren County, Michigan in 1985. None of the local newspapers are online, so I've used the Newspaper Directory to find out what's available:
 

 
In this list of newspapers, the Courier-Leader looks like the only title covering 1985. Clicking on this link will reveal a description of the newspaper, including the dates of publication, subject headings, and title changes. According to the complete holdings information, both the Library of Michigan in Lansing and the Western Michigan University in Kalamazoo have this title.
 
For further instruction on how to best use the Chronicling America website, you can view a series of podcasts created by the Ohio Historical Society:
http://www.ohiohistoryhost.org/ohiomemory/odnp/resources/podcasts
 

Google News Archive

http://news.google.com/newspapers
This is an online repository of scanned newspaper pages, both US and international. It's arranged by title, which is not exactly helpful when the title is The Daily Bulletin.
 

 
Each of these links leads to one or several digitized pages of newsprint, covering one day or several years. There is not really an effective way to search except by browsing. Click on the title you're interested in, and you'll see a display of dates and pages available.
 

 
Google News Archive has images of the Manistee (MI) Broadaxe, from 1886 to 1890. Some issues, such as Feb. 1887, are not available.
When you click on a page, you can see all pages of that issue. You can scroll from one page to another, enlarge the page, make it smaller, or go to full screen.
 

Newspaper Search Engines

Just as there are general search engines, such as Google, Bing or Yahoo, there are also specialized search engines, just for genealogy. Here are just a few:
 

Elephind

http://www.elephind.com/
Elephind is a new search engine that makes it possible to search several digital newspaper archives at the same time, including newspapers from Australia, Mexico, New Zealand, Singapore, and the United States. An advanced search can be limited to one country or collection, and dates defined. You can view the list of countries and newspapers covered by clicking on "List of Titles" at the top of the home page.
 

Mocavo

http://www.mocavo.com 
Mocavo is another fairly new search engine that searches for genealogy content across the internet, and that has a growing collection of newspapers.. There are three subscription levels: Basic (free), Silver, and Gold. You can view the newspaper search page here:
http://www.mocavo.com/records/Newspapers
 

Recent Obituary Websites

You may be trying to track down a distant cousin, and find that he died sometime in the 1990s. There are myriad collections of obituaries online. Most of them are subscription websites, in that you would need to pay to get a copy of the obituary. These websites can also be used to pinpoint a newspaper title and date of publication, in order to request the microfilm and look it up yourself.
 

Legacy.com

Legacy.com is a collaboration of over 1500 newspapers in the United States, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, United Kingdom and Europe. It hosts over 20 million obituaries since the 1930s.
 

 
A search for Frederick T. Pfeiffer, who died in North Carolina in 2013, brings up a transcript of the entire obituary from the Orlando (FL) Sentinel. You can also view entries in the Guest Book, even though it is closed now.
 

ObitsArchive

http://www.obitsarchive.com
ObitsArchive describes itself as "the largest and most comprehensive collection of newspaper obituaries and death notices in the United States." The home page has a color-coded map of the US; you can search by region or by state:
 

 
When I did a search for the surname Stoelt, there was only one result: an obituary for Ervilla Varran Stoelt, published in the Ann Arbor News on 2 August 2006. To get a copy of the obituary, I would need to register with the site and pay $2.95 per article, or $19.95 per month for up to 100 obituaries every 30 days.
You can see the list of newspapers covered here:
http://www.obitsarchive.com/oa-search/we/Archives?p_action=sourcelist&d_sources=location&d_place=United%20States
 

Burned Counties, Burned Newspaper Offices

Historic newspapers can only be digitized or microfilmed if they survived to the present day. Be aware that some newspapers may no longer exist, except for clippings in private scrapbooks.
 
One of the clippings in my family papers came from a newspaper in Bear Lake, Michigan, where my great-grandmother Ruth Chase died in 1915:

"Suddenly Called by Death," undated newspaper clipping, author's private collection [address for private use], 1974.
 
The US Newspaper Directory does not list any newspapers for Bear Lake in 1915, so I searched Ancestry's message boards for Manistee County. In 2002 someone posted a message that the newspaper office burned down in 1919.
 
A search of digitized newspapers using the key words "Bear Lake fire" found this clipping from the Grand Rapids Press of 1 October 1919.
 

"Bear Lake Hit by Fire Tuesday," Grand Rapids (MI) Press, 1 Oct. 1919, p.18, col. 7; digital image; GenealogyBank, (http://www.genealogybank.com: accessed 29 Aug 2014).
 
There are many other small newspapers in Manistee County for the same time period that would cover news from Bear Lake, which I can find by searching the library catalog online at the Manistee Public Library or the Library of Michigan.









Subscription Databases

In addition to the free newspapers you can find online, there are subscription databases that deal primarily with newspapers and other historic records. Most of these are available to individual subscribers, and some through institutions. It pays to investigate every possibility for finding out about your ancestors' lives!
 
With any subscription or membership, it is important to read the fine print carefully. Each company has its own "Terms of Service" which dictates how you can use or share the information you find online. If you sign up for a trial period of 7 days, use a one-time credit card, and make a note on your calendar to cancel before the trial period ends, if you don't intend to continue. Some websites practice auto-renewal; make sure you know if your subscription will be renewed automatically, or if you'll be asked to renew each year.
 

Ancestry

http://www.ancestry.com
1-800-262-3787
Ancestry.com is one of the largest genealogy databases, and includes a substantial number of newspapers. Their US Obituary Collection includes over 28 million records, and their digitized newspapers include significant titles from Illinois, Iowa, Ohio and Pennsylvania. These newspapers are only available with an individual subscription, and are not available through the Ancestry Library edition.
Ancestry has several subscription levels, which you can see here:
http://www.ancestry.com/cs/offers/subscribe?sub=1
 
You can see the alphabetical list of newspaper titles here:
http://search.ancestry.com/search/group/histnews
 
One of the important collections in Ancestry is not under Newspapers, but under Birth, Marriage and Death Records. The Historical Newspapers, Birth, Marriage & Death Announcements, 1851-2003 is composed of pages from the following papers:
 
The New York Times, 1851-2001
The Los Angeles Times, 1881-1894
The Boston Globe, 1872-1922
The Chicago Defender, 1921-1975
The Chicago Tribune, 1850-1985
The Hartford Courant, 1791-1942
The Washington Post, 1877-1990
The Atlanta Constitution, 1868-1929
 
You may not think to look in this collection if your ancestor did not live in these large cities. However, often obituaries appeared for people who lived in the surrounding areas.
 

"Died," New York Times, 18 May 1900; digital image; "Historical Newspapers, Birth, Marriage & Death Announcements, 1851-2003," Ancestry (http://www.ancestry.com: accessed 29 Aug. 2014).
 

Newspapers.com

http://www.newspapers.com; discount available with Ancestry.com World membership.
Several years ago, Ancestry.com decided to start a separate subscription database for digitized newspapers, from the 1700s-2000s. This includes over 3000 US newspapers, which can be easily searched or browsed. Their international collection includes papers from Canada, England, Ireland and Northern Ireland. Their greatest concentration is on newspapers from about 1860 to the 1970s.
 
You can see the list of newspapers they have here:
http://www.newspapers.com/papers/#
 
Here are the results of a search for "Miles Jordan", 1890-1894 in North Carolina. When you click on the newsprint, your search term is highlighted, making it easier to spot on the page.
 

 
After you find the article you're looking for, you can print, save, share, or save to Ancestry.
 

Fold3

http://www.fold3.com/choose-a-plan/; 1-800-613-0181
Fold3 is a database that grew out of digitized historical newspapers, city directories, documents relating to African-American and Native American history, and military records from the Revolutionary War to the Korean and Vietnam wars. Owned by Ancestry, the database sharpened its focus to military records, but there are still many non-military records on the website. Here are the newspapers it carries:
Atlanta Constitution, 1868-1923
Chicago Tribune, 1849-1923
Fort Wayne, IN newspapers, 1864-1923
over 35 Kentucky newspapers, 1878-1912
London Times, 1785-1921
San Francisco Chronicle, 1865-1923
2 Virginia newspapers (free)
Washington Post, 1904-1921
 
All of these newspapers can be searched or browsed.
 

 
Findings can be downloaded, shared, or saved to Ancestry.
 

GenealogyBank

http://www.genealogybank.com
1-866-641-3297
GenealogyBank is one of the best-known newspaper subscription websites, and carries much more than just historic newspapers. It has free access to the Social Security Death Index (updated weekly), and subscribers may search these records:
Historical Documents, 1789-1994
Historical Books, 1749-1900
Obituaries, 1977-present
Historic Newspapers, 1690-2010
 
You can see the full list of newspapers here:
http://www.genealogybank.com/gbnk/newspapers/sourcelist/full/
 
Be aware that some titles are listed that only have a single page, or a single issue, which may have been all that was published.
Here is my search box for William Weber, who killed his wife in 1913. I'm narrowing the search to Michigan; I could have narrowed it further by selecting the Grand Rapids papers, but I wanted to see statewide results.

 
Here are my 23 results, mostly from Grand Rapids newspapers. You can see a thumbnail of the newspaper along with the column or section headline, the date, the title and the place.
 

 
Once I click on an article, I can resize it, print, save as a PDF, and look at all the pages in the issue. Don't forget to write down the citation for the article you're saving.
 

 
GenealogyBank has recently made their index of over 500,000 recent obituaries (1980-2014) available on FamilySearch:
https://familysearch.org/search/collection/2333694
 
Here is an example of the information on Dr. Moorman P. Prosser, who died in Oklahoma in 1989. Note that for you to see the actual obituary you will need a subscription to GenealogyBank.
 

 
This displays quite a bit of information, such as his date and place of birth, date and place of death, the name of the newspaper, and the names of survivors.
 

Find My Past

http://www.findmypast.com
Find My Past is the American version of the British database that has been operating for several years. On this subscription website you can find records from both the United States and the United Kingdom, including Ireland. They have several newspaper collections, from Britain, Ireland and the United States.
 
In the British and Irish Newspaper collection, you can narrow your search by date, place, county, newspaper, or article type. The United States newspaper collection can be narrowed down by state and publication, and then by date. You can click "Filter by Newspaper" to see what titles are included, and how many pages there are, but there are no immediately available date ranges until you perform a search.
 

 
Access to Find My Past can be purchased in monthly or annual subscriptions, or as pay-as-you-go credits.
 

Paper of Record

http://www.paperofrecord.com
This website was created in Canada, and its strength is in Canadian newspapers, especially those of Ontario. They also have an impressive range of newspapers from Mexico. Membership costs $71.40 (Canadian) annually, or $12.95 per month.
Paper of Record moved some (but not all) of their Ontario newspapers to Google News Archive in 2009.
 
You can find a list of newspapers and dates here:
https://paperofrecord.hypernet.ca/papers.asp
 
From this newspaper collection I retrieved the obituary of John Donaldson, from the Toronto World of 25 October 1918.
 

"Fell Down Chute," Toronto World, 25 Oct. 1918; digital image; Paper of Record  (http://www.paperofrecord.com: accessed 4 Apr. 2011).
 

Icon: International Coalition on Newspapers

Directory of Newspaper Digitization Projects
http://icon.crl.edu/digitization.php
This International Coalition maintains a directory of world-wide newspaper projects, indexes, search engines and databases. It's a good idea to check here occasionally for new or updated projects.
 

Join a Society, Receive Access to Paid Databases

Many genealogical and historical societies offer, as part of their membership, free access to newspaper databases. Here is a listing of a few that do:
 
Rutherford B. Hayes Presidential Library
http://www.rbhayes.org/hayes/joinmember/
All members receive a monthly newsletter and quarterly newsletter, and on-site discount on photocopies. If you join at the $45 or more level, you receive free at-home access to HeritageQuest (containing census records, digitized books, PERSI archives, Revolutionary War pension records, and Freedman's Bank records) and NewspaperArchive.
 
New England Historic and Genealogical Society
http://www.americanancestors.org
Membership is $79.95 per year and includes the New England Historical and Genealogical Register, the American Ancestors Journal, access to millions of records online, and two external newspaper databases: Early American Newspapers, Series I (1690-1876) and 19th Century Newspapers (1800-1899).
 
New York Genealogical and Biographical Society
http://newyorkfamilyhistory.org/
Membership is $70 per year and includes The Record, published quarterly, and The New York Researcher magazine, also quarterly. It also includes remote access to Early American Newspapers Series I (1690-1876).
 
Southern California Genealogical Society
http://www.scgsgenealogy.com/
Membership is $35 per year and includes remote access to WorldVitalRecords and Fold3.
 
Godfrey Memorial Library
http://godfrey.org/subscribe.html
A Premium (Gold) Subscription is $80 per year, and includes access to NewspaperArchive, 19th Century Newspapers, Early American Newspapers, and London Times Digital.
 
National Genealogical Society
http://www.ngsgenealogy.org
Membership is $65 per year. Members can receive a 50% discount on a subscription to Fold3.









Libraries and Their Resources


Nationwide Databases

 
In the United States, libraries are supported by taxes at the city, county or state level. Most libraries pay for databases that are available to library card holders, that cover a myriad of subjects - art, history, biography, consumer information, automotive repair, career help, science, and of course, genealogy.
 
Those tax dollars pay for some wonderful databases, which often include the subscription websites listed above. Here are some of the resources with newspaper coverage that your local library may subscribe to:
 
Ancestry Library Edition
Many public and university libraries have an institutional subscription to Ancestry, which can only be accessed from within the library building. This subscription is more limited than the personal subscription, but still has a wealth of information. Along with census, military, and immigration records are quite a few collections of newspapers, including:
 
United States Obituary Collection
African American Newspapers, 1829-1947
Houston Jewish Herald-Voice Index
Philadelphia Jewish Exponent Index
New York Marriage Notices, 1800-1855
New Orleans Deaths, 1840-1970
and many others.
 
America's GenealogyBank
This is a slightly smaller version of GenealogyBank, available through some public libraries. It covers historic newspapers (1690-2002), recent obituaries from 1977, the Social Security Death Index, Historic Books and Historic Documents.
 

 
As a way of comparison, for Washington State, America's GenealogyBank carries historic newspapers from three cities: Bellingham, Olympia and Tacoma. The full version, GenealogyBank (covered in the chapter on paid subscription databases) carries historic newspapers from those three cities plus Pasco and Seattle.
 
NewspaperArchive
This is a fairly large database, covering the United States and several other countries such as Canada, England, Ireland, Denmark and Japan. Coverage tends to be uneven, with the strongest coverage in the US Midwest: Ohio, Illinois, and Indiana. Tennessee and South Carolina only have two or three newspapers. Washington State does not have any newspapers from Seattle, Tacoma, Olympia or Vancouver. You can check here to see what newspapers are carried in the states you're interested in:
http://newspaperarchive.com/us/
 

 
Clicking on the Search tab will take you to a screen where you can make a number of choices, filling in names and/or keywords, and selecting the date or date span, the country, state, city and newspaper title.
 
Clicking on the Browse tab will enable you to search for historical events. You can also browse the newspaper collection by selecting the country, state, city and publication, which will display the date ranges available
By browsing for Medina, Ohio, I learn that there are 3 newspapers here: the Medina County Gazette (1870-1979), the Medina Gazette (1971-1979) and the Medina Sentinel (1902-1978).However, further exploration reveals that the Medina County Gazette actually covers 1870-1881, 1934-1954, 1955-1956, 1958, 1968-1975, and 1978-1979. Not at all the comprehensive coverage I was expecting.
 
Although Virgin Islands is listed as one of the many countries covered, the only newspaper included is the St. Thomas Daily News for 1960.
 
As for Ireland, although the only city covered is Dublin, there is a long list of newspapers, ranging from 1703 to 1949.
 

 
A note of caution: a personal subscription to NewspaperArchive now costs $30 per month or $200 per year, and several professional genealogists have reported problems in cancelling their subscription. Whenever possible, access this database from your local library, or remotely through a genealogical society membership.
 
19th Century U.S. Newspapers
Many public libraries subscribe to this searchable database covering 1800 to 1899, for most states. You can narrow your search by state and then city, and narrow by date or a range of years. Here is the list of states and titles covered:
http://solutions.cengage.com/Gale/Database-Title-Lists/ncnp.html
 

 
To widen your search more effectively, check "in entire article content" (rather than "in title, citation, abstract"). You can narrow your date range to any time between 1 January 1800 and 31 December 1899, and select the states and/or cities that you're interested in. To select more than one non-consecutive state, hold down the Control key while clicking. Remember that news articles from one state may well be published across the country.
 

Local History Indexes

Another important resource of public libraries across the country is the local history indexes they may have, that are not online. The Mitchell Research Center, in the Hillsdale (MI) public library, has an extensive card catalog filled with newspaper clippings. The Coffey County Library in Kansas has bound indexes for several newspapers in their area, covering the following years:
 
Burlington: 1876-2002
Gridley: 1887-1976
Lebo: 1884-1986
LeRoy: 1888-1988
Waverly: 1883-1976
 
All it takes is an email or phone call to the library for them to look for your person of interest.
 
Always do a search for the public library in the town where your ancestors lived. Realize that the name of the town may not be the name of the library. For example, when I searched for the public library in Paducah, Kentucky, I got this:
 

 
This tells me that the library in Paducah is actually the McCracken County Public Library. A look at their website reveals they have a local history section:
 

 
A quick email or phone call to the library would verify whether they have any newspaper indexes or could do a look-up on microfilm.









Microfilm and Interlibrary Loan


Newspapers on Microfilm


Newspaper cabinets at the Library of Michigan, Lansing, MI (photos courtesy of Bethany Waterbury)
 

 
The Library of Congress has been microfilming newspapers since the 1930's, in order to preserve them for future generations. Although many of these titles have been digitized and placed online, thousands more are available only on microfilm.
 
Your local public library is the best place to view microfilmed newspapers, if they have a microfilm reader/printer. Although there may be a charge for postage, films are free to view; often free or low-cost to print (10 to 25 cents per page). I have also had good results in taking pictures of the screen a digital camera or cell phone.
 
Local libraries, universities and historical societies around the country have been collecting newspapers on microfilm; many of these libraries have posted lists of their holdings on their websites.
 
More and more libraries are establishing local history and genealogy departments, and websites to point visitors to resources they can use, even from across the country. Many libraries have obituary indexes on their website, and can mail a paper copy or email a digital copy of a newspaper article, free or for a small fee.
 

How to Read a Library Catalog Entry

John Reed died in Fennville, Allegan County, Michigan on 12 April 1883. None of the digitized newspapers online cover Allegan County, so I want to see if there is a newspaper on microfilm for this time period.
 
A search of "Allegan County Michigan" in WorldCat (checking the Newspaper box on the left) results in 45 titles. All of them look like good candidates, but the entries do not show the dates covered.
 
A visit to the Library of Michigan's online catalog is just a click away on their home page:
 

 
Their online catalog is named MEL, or the Michigan Electronic Library. Click on that, and you'll see this screen:
 

 
When I type in "Allegan County Newspapers", I get a promising list:
 

 
And when I click on Allegan County news, I see that this newspaper was published from 1994 through 1999:
 

At the bottom of this catalog entry is the subject heading that has been assigned to this newspaper:
 

Allegan County (Mich.) - - Newspapers

When I click on that subject heading, I will see an entry that shows me this particular subject heading has 28 items:
 

 
Exploring the various newspapers, I found one that fits my criteria, the Allegan Journal and Tribune:
 

 
The second roll of microfilm begins with March 23, 1883, so the obituary I'm looking for (if it's there) will be at the beginning of the roll.
 

Using Interlibrary Loan

Most libraries across the United States participate in interlibrary loan, as a way of getting materials that their patrons need, on a temporary basis. You can usually request materials online, or at the library using their request form.
 
Here I've filled out the form on my library system's website. I'm using the form to request an article (rather than a book), because the newspaper is a periodical, and I only need a certain section of it.
 

 
I've indicated that I'm willing to pay for postage, and added my name and library card number. After this request is submitted, I'll get a confirmation email from the library, and another email notifying me when the microfilm arrives.









State by State Listing

What follows is a state by state listing of historic newspapers. They are arranged by:
Public and university libraries with indexes
Genealogy and historical societies with indexes
Digitized newspaper collections
Microfilmed newspaper collections
 
This is the result of an online survey of the 3,144 counties in the United States, and their newspaper holdings.
 
URLs and websites are notoriously unstable - if any of the links do not work, try using a search engine to look for the sponsoring library or historical society.









Alabama


Libraries with Newspaper Indexes
Dale County
Ozark Dale County Public Library Obituary Database
334-774-5480
http://www.odcpl.com/index.php?p=2_5
 
Jefferson County
Birmingham Public Library Obituary Index
1925-2014 206-226-3665
http://bpldb.bplonline.org/db/obituaries
 
Madison County
Huntsville-Madison County Public Library
Obituary Database 1819-2006
256-532-5969 hhrdept@hmcpl.org 
http://obits.hmcpl.org/
 
Talladega County
B.B. Comer Memorial Library, Sylacauga, AL
256-249-0961 bbclibrary@sylacauga.net
Index to the Avondale Sun, 1924-2006
http://tinyurl.com/l63yl4q
 
Tuscaloosa County Public Library Surname Index
205-345-5820 ext. 1270 genealogy@tuscaloosa-library.org 
Click on Surname File Index, under Guides & Information
http://tinyurl.com/nl2rk4h
 
Genealogy Societies with Newspaper Indexes
Blount County
http://hometownchronicles.com/al/blount/Obits/Obits.html
 
Chambers County
http://www.usgwarchives.net/al/chambers/obits.htm
 
Chilton County
Central AL Genealogical Society
http://www.alagenealogy.com/Some-Obituaries-of-Central-Alabama.htm
 
Lamar County, 1875-1880
Transcriptions, organized by date of newspaper
http://theusgenweb.org/al/lamar/newspapers.htm
 
Lauderdale County, Alabama Obituary Index
Various Newspapers, 1840-1847, 1871-2000
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~allauder/obits.htm
 
Lawrence County Archives
List of papers available at archives (not online)
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~allawren/papers.htm
 
Winston County, Alabama Obituaries
1899-1909, 1918-1924, and other years
http://www.freestateofwinston.org/vitals.htm
 
Digitized Newspaper Collections
Calhoun County
Jacksonville State University
http://tinyurl.com/mzbdltx
Jacksonville Republican, 1837-1895 (PDF)
 
Jefferson County
Birmingham Public Library Digital Collections
Includes Birmingham newspapers 1874-1901
http://tinyurl.com/ku6xwz8
 
Microfilmed Newspaper Collections
Alabama Department of Archives and History
P.O. Box 300100
624 Washington Ave.
Montgomery, AL 36130
334-242-4435
Alabama Newspapers on Microfilm Database:
Available for interlibrary loan
Available for purchase: some reels
Database: Yes
Searchable by county, title & type (African-American, Populist, Religious)
http://www.archives.alabama.gov/newsmicro/search.cfm
 
Hardbound newspapers database:
Searchable by county, title & type (African-American, Agriculture, Education, Labor, Military, Political, Populist, Prohibition, Religion)
http://www.archives.alabama.gov/newshard/search.cfm
 
Books
Gandrud, Pauline and Myra Jones. Marriage, death and legal notices from Early Alabama newspapers, 1819-1893. Southern Historical Press, 1981.









Alaska


Libraries with Newspaper Indexes
Anchorage Public Library Newspapers Obituary Index
1981-2001 907-343-2975
http://tinyurl.com/nxyrfrl
 
Genealogy Societies with Newspaper Indexes
None at this time.
 
Digitized Newspaper Collections
Alaska Newspapers Index
asl@eed.state.ak.us
Index to several newspapers from Fairbanks & Juneau, among others; choose a newspaper to search
http://www.eed.state.ak.us/lam/newspapers.cfm
 
Digital Archives of Sitka Sentinel
Searchable Archives, 1940-2014
(none on Chronicling America)
http://sitkasentinel.newspaperarchive.com/
 
Petersburg Public Library Digital Archives
907-772-3349 library@petersburgak.gov
1913-1931
http://petersburg.advantage-preservation.com/
 
Microfilmed Newspaper Collections
Alaska State Library
P.O. Box 110571
333 Willoughby Ave., 8th floor
Juneau, AK 99811-0571
907-465-2920
library.alaska.gov/his/newspaper/news.html
1866-1998
Guide to Alaska Newspapers on Microfilm (by place)
http://library.alaska.gov/hist/newspaper/news.html
 
Fairbanks Area and Juneau Empire Newspaper Indexes:
Database covers Fairbanks (1901-1975) and
Juneau (1990-1999)
Searchable by publication, year, headline, key word
http://education.alaska.gov/lam/newspapers.cfm
 
Chronologies of Alaska and Regional Newspapers
http://library.alaska.gov/hist/newspaper/chron.html
 
Books
Fairbanks Genealogical Society, Index of births, deaths, marriages and divorces in Fairbanks, Alaska newspapers, 1903-1930. Alaska Historical Commission, 1986.









Arizona


Libraries with Newspaper Indexes
Coconino & Yavapai Counties
Sedona Public Library Obituary Index
1963-2012 928-282-7714
http://www.sedonalibrary.org/obit_search.php
 
Coconino County
Northern AZ University Cline Library
Arizona-Champion-Coconino Sun, Name Index, 1887-1894
http://library.nau.edu/speccoll/indexes/Sun/intro.html
also
Obituary Index, 1883-2004
http://www6.nau.edu/library/da/obits/display/browseby.cfm
 
Genealogy Societies with Newspaper Indexes
Arizona Obituary Archive, over 70,000 obituaries
No indication of date range or newspapers included
http://obits.arizonagravestones.org/
 
Cochise County Obituaries
PDF, transcribed
http://www.mycochise.com/obits.php
 
Maricopa County
Mesa FamilySearch Library Arizona Obituary Search
$15 per search request
480-694-1200 admin@mesarfhc.org
http://mesarfhc.org/search/azobits.htm
 
Maricopa County
West Valley Genealogical Society Obituary Search,
1963 to present 623-933-4945
http://www.azwvgs.org/obits.asp
 
Yavapai County
Northern Arizona Genealogical Society Obituaries
1962-2001
http://nags.weebly.com/obituaries.html
 
Yavapai County
Sharlot Hall Museum Obituary Database
1973-present
http://www.sharlot.org/archives/gene/index.html
 
Digitized Newspaper Collections
Arizona Digital Newspaper Program
http://adnp.azlibrary.gov/cdm/newspapers/
 
University of Arizona, Historic Mexican &
Mexican American Press 520-641-6423
http://tinyurl.com/qelkf8a 
 
Gila County News-Courier, 1942-1945
http://tinyurl.com/k7g5tkh
 
Pima & Pinal Counties
The Little Cowpuncher
1930s & 1940s
http://cowpuncher.library.arizona.edu/newspaper/toc.htm
 
Pinal County
Casa Grande Public Library Digital Archives
1912-2012 520-421-8710
http://casagrandepl.newspaperarchive.com/
 
Microfilmed Newspaper Collections
University of Arizona
1510 E. University Blvd.
Tucson, AZ 85721-0055
520-621-6406
Listing of newspapers by city, 1854 to present
http://www.library.arizona.edu/help/how/find/newspapers/arizona
 
Books
Lutrell, Estelle, Newspapers and periodicals of Arizona, 1859-1911. Tucson, University of Arizona, 1950.









Arkansas


Libraries with Newspaper Indexes
Jefferson County
Pine Bluff Library Obituary Records
$7.50 per name
870-534-4802 info@pineblufflibrary.org
http://pineblufflibrary.org/library-research-tools
 
Pope County Library System Family Files Index
Various sources 479-968-4368
http://www.popelibrary.org/index.php/genealogy/family-files-index/
 
Saline County Library Obituary Index
Click on Genealogy/Local History at bottom of page
Arranged alphabetically by decade
501-778-4766
http://www.salinecountylibrary.org
 
Washington County
Fayetteville Public Library Obituary Database,
1868-2010
479-856-7000 questions@faylib.org
http://fplwebapps.faylib.org/genealogy-dbase/index.asp
 
Genealogy Societies with Newspaper Indexes
Ashley County Ledger Obituary Index
http://www.ashleycountyledger.com/obituaries/
 
Bradley County Obituaries Index, 1884-1930
From the Arkansas Methodist Newspaper
http://tinyurl.com/mzmaojv
 
Clay County, Piggott Banner Obits Index
No dates; page numbers refer to scrapbooks
Request obit from submitter on submitters page
http://www.argenweb.net/clay/PiggottBannerObitsIndex.htm
 
Craighead County Genealogical Society Obituary Indexes
http://www.gscca.net/records.htm
 
Cross County Obituaries
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~arcross/obits/obits1.htm
 
Garland County
Hot Springs Genealogical Society Obituary Index
501-624-0229
http://tinyurl.com/qfeoyfj
 
Marion County Obituaries
http://www.argenweb.net/marion/obits/index.html
 
Nevada County Obits Index, 1884-1976
http://www.argenweb.net/nevada/obit.htm
 
Randolph County Obituaries
http://www.argenweb.net/randolph/obits/obits.htm
 
St. Francis County Obituaries
http://www.argenweb.net/stfrancis/OBIT/index.htm
 
Scott County Historical & Genealogical Society, 1887-1982
http://www.argenweb.net/scott/obits.htm
 
Yell County Obituaries
http://www.yellcountyobits.org/
 
Digitized Newspaper Collections
Benton County
Digital Archives of the Gentry Courier-Journal
1896-1949
http://gentrycourierjournal.newspaperarchive.com/
 
Arkansas Tech University
Arkansas Gazette and Arkansas Democrat-Gazette
http://library.atu.edu/research/AGI/
 
Microfilmed Newspaper Collections
Arkansas History Commission
One Capitol Mall
Little Rock, Arkansas 72201
501-682-6900
Over 3000 titles from 250 different locations, 1819 to present
Database searchable by title, city and county
http://www.ark-ives.com/documenting/newspapers.aspx
 
Books
Morgan, James Logan, Arkansas Newspaper Index, 1819-1945: Index to obituaries, biographical and probate and chancery notices. Newport, Arkansas, Morgan Books, 1981.









California


Libraries with Newspaper Indexes
Alameda County
Berkeley Public Library Obituary Database
1897-1979 510-981-6100
http://tinyurl.com/la95bvr
 
Alameda County, Livermore Public Library
Obituary Database 925-373-5500
http://tinyurl.com/qyf2upf
 
Los Angeles County
Long Beach Public Library History Index
562-570-7500
http://www.lbpl.org/history/
 
San Diego County Public Library
Obituary Index, 1905-1980
On microfiche at library (not online)
619-236-5800
http://www.sandiego.gov/public-library/index.shtml
 
San Joaquin County Public Library Obituary Index,
1850-1991 (through FamilySearch)
https://familysearch.org/search/collection/1929846
 
San Luiz Obispo County Library Database
PDF; $15 per name
805-781-5989; reference@slolibrary.org
http://slolibrary.org/histobituary.htm
Also http://www.cagenweb.com/slo/obits/
(Indexes to obits found on GenealogyBank)
 
Santa Clara County
Palo Alto City Library Newspaper Index
650-329-2436 pa.library@cityofpaloalto.org
http://tinyurl.com/22wpfn
 
Santa Cruz County
Santa Cruz Public Library Local News Index, 1896-1916
831-427-7706
http://www2.santacruzpl.org/history/oldnews/mtecho.php
 
Siskiyou County Library Obituary Index, 1884-1990
530-841-4176
http://tinyurl.com/km7dk7p
 
Sonoma County Library Local History Index
707-645-0831
http://tinyurl.com/pbv62gf
 
Genealogy Societies with Newspaper Indexes
Eastern Alameda County,
Livermore-Amador Genealogical Society
http://www.l-ags.org/databases.html
 
Butte County, Paradise Genealogical Society
(some records from adjoining counties)
paragenso@att.net
http://pargenso.org/new_obituaries.html
 
Contra Costa County Obituary Index, 1855-1920
http://www.cocohistory.org/frm-resources.html
 
Humboldt County Obituary Index, 1854-1899
http://www.cagenweb.com/humboldt/obits.htm
 
Kern County Obituary Index
http://www.cagenweb.com/kern/
 
Lassen County Obituary Index
http://tinyurl.com/lkagt4e
 
Los Angeles County
San Fernando Valley Genealogical Society
Newspaper Extracts
http://tinyurl.com/p3eoax6
 
Los Angeles County
Southern California Genealogical Society
Los Angeles Times Obituary Database, 1988-2004
818-843-7247 scgs@scgsgenealogy.com
http://www.scgsgenealogy.com/obit-search_soundex.html
 
Mariposa County Obituaries
http://www.mariposaresearch.net/obits.htm
 
Placer County Genealogical Society Index to Deaths,
1852-1885
http://pcgs.pcgenes.com/pcgsd.html
 
San Diego County Obituary Index,
1868-1915; 1851-1860
http://www.sandiegoyesterday.com
 
San Diego County Newspaper Records & Resources
http://www.cagenweb.com/sandiego/newspapers.html
 
San Francisco Call Database & Index
(fee for copies)
http://www.jwfgenresearch.com/SFCallIndex.htm
 
San Mateo County Genealogical Society Obituaries Index
http://www.smcgs.org/databases.html
 
Shasta County Obituary Index
http://www.cagenweb.com/shasta/obits.htm
 
Siskiyou County Genealogical Society Databases
530-842-0277 gsscl@att.net
http://www.siskiyougenealogy.org/databases.php
Sonoma County Genealogical Society
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~cascgs/news1.htm
V.1, 1855-1875; Printed index avail. through Heritage Books
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~cascgs/news2.htm
V.2, 1876-1880
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~cascgs/news3.htm
V.3, 1881-1885
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~cascgs/news4.htm
v.4, 1886-1890
 
Tulare County Newspaper Indexes, 1859-2013
http://cagenweb.com/cpl/tulare/
 
Ventura County Genealogical Society Indexes
http://www.venturacogensoc.org/
 
Digitized Newspaper Collections
California Digital Newspaper Collection
Various papers, 1846-2012
http://cdnc.ucr.edu/cgi-bin/cdnc
 
Los Angeles County
California Eagle (microfilm that has been digitized)
Oldest African-American Newspaper in the west
1939-1940
https://archive.org/details/caleagle
 
Los Angeles County
Covina Public Library Digital Archives
1886-1999
http://covina.newspaperarchive.com/
 
Los Angeles County
Torrance Public Library Newspaper Archives
1913-1969 310-323-7200
http://www.torranceca.gov/libraryarchive/
 
Los Angeles County
Whittier Public Library Digital Archives
1888-1956 562-567-9950
http://digi.whittierlibrary.org/wpl/index.html
 
Nevada County Library
Grass Valley Daily Union Archives, 1865-1884
http://tinyurl.com/oylkwzu
 
Daily Trojan - Student Newspaper, Univ. of Southern CA
1912-2014
http://tinyurl.com/otcffro
 
San Francisco County
Neighborhood Newspapers of San Francisco, 1970
https://archive.org/details/sanfrancisconewspapers
 
Santa Cruz County Public Library Clipping Index
831-427-7706
http://www2.santacruzpl.org/history/clippingfile/
 
Microfilmed Newspaper Collections
California Newspaper Microfilm Archive
University of California
Single largest collection of newspaper microfilms for CA
Approximately 100,000 reels for titles between 1846 and present.
Database is searchable by title, city, OCLC #, and date range.
http://cnma.ucr.edu/









Colorado


Libraries with Newspaper Indexes
Denver County
Denver Public Library, Obituary Indexes 1900-2010
720-865-1821 genhist@denverlibrary.org
http://tinyurl.com/pn72ycc
 
Denver County
Denver Public Library, Obituary Index, 1936-2005
720-865-1821 genhist@denverlibrary.org
http://tinyurl.com/lr25q2
 
Denver County
Denver Public Library, Colorado Obituary Project, 1970's-1990
720-865-1821 genhist@denverlibrary.org
http://tinyurl.com/7uxs4na
 
El Paso County
Pikes Peak Library District Local Newspaper Index
719-531-6333
http://tinyurl.com/ccbjwpb
 
Mesa County Libraries Obituary Index
Click on Services, then on Genealogy
Instructions for looking up obits in their catalog
970-243-4442 ask@mcpld.org
http://mesacountylibraries.org/
 
Pueblo City-County Library Obituaries
Index to the Pueblo Chieftain. PDF copies can be emailed free of charge; paper copies have a delivery fee of $3.00 per obituary. 719-562-5600
http://www.pueblolibrary.org/obituaries-search
 
Genealogy Societies with Newspaper Indexes
Arapahoe County, Columbine Genealogical Society Indexes
http://www.columbinegenealogy.com/hub/
 
Boulder County Genealogical Society Indexes
http://tinyurl.com/mp85ms4
 
Douglas County Obituaries
http://cogenweb.com/douglas/dc_obits.htm
 
Eagle County Obituary Index
http://www.cogenweb.com/eagle/obits/obit_index.html
 
Huerfano, Pueblo & Las Animas Counties
Tri-County Obituary Project; over 31,000 obits
http://www.kmitch.com/Pueblo/obits/obitindex.html
 
Moffat County Obituary Index
1876-1910
http://theusgenweb.org/co/moffat/obitsmain.htm
 
Park County Local History Archives
55-page PDF listing name, birth date & place, death date & place, and newspaper
http://www.parkcoarchives.org/
 
Digitized Newspaper Collections
Colorado Historic Newspapers Collection
Colorado State Library
Contains the majority of digitized newspapers for Colorado,
1859-1923
http://www.coloradohistoricnewspapers.org/
 
Microfilmed Newspaper Collections
History Colorado
1200 Broadway
Denver, CO 80203
303-447-8679
Largest collection of Colorado newspapers: over 1700 microfilmed titles. Library has guides that list papers by name, county and town, dates of publication.
Positive microfilm reels available for purchase.
http://www.historycolorado.org/researchers/newspapers









Connecticut


Libraries with Newspaper Indexes
Fairfield County
Ferguson Library, Stamford, Obituary Index
1843-present 203-964-1000
http://tinyurl.com/oyvbqe7
 
Fairfield County
Westport Library Obituaries Index
203-291-4800
http://westportlibrary.org/research/obituaries
 
Fairfield County
Wilton Library Association Obituaries Index
1937-2005 203-762-3950
http://tinyurl.com/qd2up3f
 
Genealogy Societies with Newspaper Indexes
New Haven County
Beacon Falls Historical Society, 1871-1908
203-632-8216
http://www.bfhistorical.org/researchlookup/
 
Digitized Newspaper Collections
Connecticut State Library Newspapers Collection, 1821-1929
860-757-6500
http://tinyurl.com/owsyheu
 
Yale University Library - Daily News Historical Archive
1878-1995 203-432-1735
http://tinyurl.com/qjn3fm6
 
Microfilmed Newspaper Collections
Connecticut State Library
Connecticut Newspaper Project
231 Capitol Ave.
Hartford, CT 06106
Over 7000 titles dating back to 1755
Database arranged by county, title & area covered
866-886-4478
http://www.cslib.org/cnp/cnpfilm.htm









Delaware


Libraries with Newspaper Indexes
None at this time.
 
Genealogy Societies with Newspaper Indexes
None at this time.
 
Digitized Newspaper Collections
To date, there are no Delaware newspapers on the Library of Congress Chronicling America database. Those newspapers that have been digitized are on Google News Archive, Ancestry, Newspapers.com, GenealogyBank, and NewspaperArchive.
 
Microfilmed Newspaper Collections
University of Delaware Library
Delaware Newspaper Project
181 S. College Ave.
Newark, DE 19717
302-831-2965
Newspapers since 1781
Available for interlibrary loan
Available for purchase
http://www2.lib.udel.edu/delnews/#availability
http://www2.lib.udel.edu/delnews/list.htm









District of Columbia


Libraries with Newspaper Indexes
None at this time.
 
Genealogy Societies with Newspaper Indexes
None at this time.
 
Digitized Newspaper Collections
Civil War Washington
Armory Square Hospital Gazette & The Soldiers' Journal
http://civilwardc.org/data/categories/view/102
 
Washington Post Archives, 1877-1995
free to search, fee for full article http://pqasb.pqarchiver.com/washingtonpost/search.html
 
Microfilmed Newspaper Collections
Martin Luther King Jr. Memorial Library
Special Collections
901 G. St. NW
Washington, DC 20001
202-727-0321
Complete runs of many DC daily newspapers from 1800 to present
http://dclibrary.org/node/35995









Florida


Libraries with Newspaper Indexes
Indian River County Library Obituary Index
1912-present 772-770-5060 x5
http://www.irclibrary.org/genealogy/
 
Miami-Dade Public Library (index not online)
Card file of obituaries, 1896-2007; $5 each
http://www.mdpls.org/
 
Genealogy Societies with Newspaper Indexes
Bay County Genealogical Society Obituary Index
Panama City newspapers, 1907-1916, 1986-2013
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~flbcgs
 
Collier County Obituaries Index Project, 1927-2008
http://www.colliergov.net/index.aspx?page=863
 
Flagler County Obituaries, 1919-1980
http://www.flaglercountyfamilies.com/obituaries.html
 
Highlands County Obituaries, 1982-present
http://www.fl-genweb.org/west/highlands
 
Lee County Genealogical Society Obituary Database
http://www.lcgsfl.org/areaDeaths.php
 
Monroe County
University of Florida Digital Collection; Key West Citizen
http://tinyurl.com/pscczwb
 
Nassau County, Amelia Island Genealogical Society
1879-1885, 1949-1955, 1957-1969
http://aigensoc.org/obituary.asp
 
Genealogical Society of Palm Beach County
Area Deaths, 1980-current, searchable database
Area Deaths, 1965-1980 available in library
$10 fee; 50% discount for members
http://gensocofpbc.org/cpage.php?pt=29
 
Pinellas County Genealogy Society Databases
http://tinyurl.com/lu476jr
 
Digitized Newspaper Collections
Bradford County Telegraph, 1888-2014
http://tinyurl.com/q4f8zgr
 
Central Florida Memory
Covers many small towns in Central Florida, as well as newspapers from Georgia, Texas, other states
http://www.cfmemory.org//Collection/
 
Florida Digital Newspaper Library
Includes current newspapers, 2005-present; Historic Florida newspapers; Historic news accounts of Florida from non-Florida newspapers.
 
Sub-collections include Digital Military Newspapers, Ethnic Newspapers, Florida Jewish Newspapers
http://ufdc.ufl.edu/?c=fdnl1
 
Palm Beach Post Digital Archives, 1897-1988
http://www2.palmbeachpost.com/projects/archives/
 
Palm Beach County
Boca Raton Historical Society & Museum
Searchable PDF, 1930-1960s
561-395-6766 ext. 104 curator@bocahistory.org
http://www.bocahistory.org/newspapers/
 
Microfilmed Newspaper Collections
University of Florida
Gainesville, FL 32611
352-273-2629
http://web.uflib.ufl.edu/spec/pkyonge/newspap.html
 
Jacksonville Public Library
303 N. Laura St.
Jacksonville, FL 32202
904-630-2740
http://jpl.coj.net/coll/newspapers.html









Georgia


Libraries with Newspaper Indexes
Chatham, Effingham and Liberty Counties
Live Oak Public Libraries
Savannah Morning News Obituaries, 1913-1926, 1987-1996
912-652-3600
http://www.liveoakpl.org/obitsform.php
 
Dawson and Lumpkin Counties
Chestatee Regional Library System Obituary Index
706-344-3690
http://www.chestateelibrary.org
 
Gordon County Library Obituary Database, 1800-2007
http://tinyurl.com/px8zmy8
 
Genealogy Societies with Newspaper Indexes
Bartow County Obituaries (over 5000)
No indication of newspapers or dates included
http://www.gabartow.org/Obits/
 
Butts County Obituary Index
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~gabutts2/obits/names.html
 
Chattanooga County Obituary Database, 1927-1942
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~gachatto/
 
Glynn County Newspaper Database
http://www.glynngen.com/newspapers/
Jones County Obituaries
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~gajones/obits.html
 
Meriwether County Obituary Index
The Vindicator, 1873-1903
http://usgwarchives.net/ga/meriwether/obits.html
 
Mitchell County Obituaries
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~gamitche/obits/obits.html
 
Monroe County Obituary Index
http://www.thegagenweb.com/gamonroe/obituaries.html
 
Muscogee County Genealogical Society Obituaries
http://www.muscogeegenealogy.com/
 
Polk County Obituary Index
The Cedartown Standard, 1900-1999
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~gapolk/
 
Richmond County
Augusta Chronicle Historical Archive, 1858-2000
http://tinyurl.com/okg5hq4
 
Talbot County Obituary Index, 1903-1909
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~gatalbot/obit/obitsab.html
 
Digitized Newspaper Collections
Digital Library of Georgia
http://tinyurl.com/k5rqg82
 
University of North Georgia Archives
Andrew W. Cain Newspaper Collection
http://tinyurl.com/nyjx3wu
 
Baldwin County
Milledgeville Historic Newspapers Archive
1810-1920
http://milledgeville.galileo.usg.edu/milledgeville/search
 
Clarke County
Athens Historic Newspapers Archive, 1827-1913
http://athnewspapers.galileo.usg.edu/athnewspapers/search
 
Fulton County
Atlanta Historic Newspapers Archive, 1847-1922
http://atlnewspapers.galileo.usg.edu/atlnewspapers/search
 
South Georgia Historic Newspapers Archive
1845-1922
http://sgnewspapers.galileo.usg.edu/sgnewspapers/search
 
Georgia State University
International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers Archives
http://tinyurl.com/q7yj8d8
 
Microfilmed Newspaper Collections
University of Georgia Libraries
Athens, GA 30602-1641
706-542-2131 gnp@uga.edu 
Holdings arranged alphabetically by city, and then title
Copies of microfilm available for purchase
Website has details of title changes
http://www.libs.uga.edu/gnp/titlelist.html









Hawaii


Libraries with Newspaper Indexes
None at this time.
 
Genealogy Societies with Newspaper Indexes
None at this time.
 
Digitized Newspaper Collections
Hawaiian Electronic Library
Index to the Honolulu Advertiser & Star Bulletin
http://ulukau.org/gsdl2.82/cgi-bin/hni
 
University of Hawaii
Hawaiian Language Newspapers
http://libweb.hawaii.edu/digicoll/newspapers.htm
 
Hawaiian Electronic Library
Hawaiian Nupepa Collection
http://nupepa.org/gsdl2.5/cgi-bin/nupepa?l=en
 
Hawaiian Historical Society
Helen Chapin's Guide to Newspapers of Hawai'i, 1834-2000
http://tinyurl.com/pr6kw3y
 
Microfilmed Newspaper Collections
Hamilton Library, University of Hawaii at Manoa
Honolulu, HI 96822
808-956-7205
http://tinyurl.com/lrbxqwl









Idaho


Libraries with Newspaper Indexes
Ada County
Boise Public Library Obituary Index
1964-present 208-384-4340
http://www.boisepubliclibrary.org/research/obituaries-local-history/obituary-index/
 
Genealogy Societies with Newspaper Indexes
Canyon County Idaho Obituaries Project
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~idfs/
 
Caribou County Obituary Index
Transcriptions of Caribou County Sun,
1903-1949, 1950-1975
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~idcaribo/caribou_county_sun_newspaper_obi.htm
 
Gooding County Historical Society Obituary Index
1946-47, 1980-2011
http://tinyurl.com/kjk4pfb
 
Eastern Idaho Obituary Index
208-524-5291 iffhc1@gmail.com 
http://tinyurl.com/knmhs5v
 
Payette County Obituary Index
6 Payette area newspapers, 1891-1931
http://payettecounty.info/obituaries/intro.html
Valley County Obituary Database, 1940-2000
http://www.usgwarchives.net/id/valley/valley.htm
 
Digitized Newspaper Collections
Eastern Idaho Newspapers, 1904-1939
http://lib.byu.edu/collections/eastern-idaho-newspapers/
 
Eastern Idaho Death Index (Obituaries)
http://tinyurl.com/knmhs5v
 
Jefferson County
Rigby Star Newspaper Collection
http://tinyurl.com/levk96d
 
Twin Falls County Newspaper Archive
Use username and password (provided) to log in
http://abish.byui.edu/library/auth/info/twinFallsArchive.cfm
 
Microfilmed Newspaper Collections
Idaho Historical Society & State Archives
2205 Old Penitentiary Rd.
Boise, ID 83712
208-334-2620
40,000 rolls of microfilm covering 1863 to present
http://history.idaho.gov/archives-collections









Illinois


Libraries with Newspaper Indexes
Champaign County
Urbana Free Library Local History Online
Historical Archives
217-367-4025 archives@tufl.info
http://tinyurl.com/qzdgetu
 
Cook and Lake Counties
Barrington Area Library Newspaper Indexes
847-382-1300
http://tinyurl.com/kr5qyhz
 
Cook County
Glenview Public Library Obituary Index
847-729-7500
http://www.glenviewpl.org/researchGenealogy2.html#RT
 
Cook County
Skokie Public Library Newspaper Index
847-673-7774
http://articles.skokielibrary.info/
 
Cook County
Wilmette Public Library Newspaper Index
847-256-5025
http://www.wilmettelibrary.info/localcommunity
 
DuPage County
Indian Prairie Public Library, Obituary Index, 1972-2012
630-887-8760
http://www.indianprairie.lib.il.us
 
DuPage County
Villa Park Public Library Argus Obituary Index
630-834-1164
http://www.villapark.lib.il.us/?page_id=1034
 
DuPage County
Bloomingdale Public Library Obituary Index
630-924-2765 bdlh@mybpl.org 
http://www.mybpl.org/obituaryindex
 
Kane County
St. Charles Public Library Newspaper Index
630-584-0076
http://tinyurl.com/oe9bsws
 
Kankakee County Public Library Obituary Index, 1950-2012
815-939-4564
http://www.lions-online.org/obit.php
 
Lake County
Highland Park Public Library Obituary Index
1874-2009 847-432-0216
http://hplibrary.org/obituary-index
 
Lake County
Barrington Area Library History Index
847-382-1300
http://www.barringtonarealibrary.org/local-history.html
 
Lake County
Cook Memorial Public Library Obituary Index
847-362-2330 x1134
http://tinyurl.com/oeamlad
 
Tazewell County
Pekin Public Library Obituary Index, 1914-present
http://tinyurl.com/o9xn3da
 
Whiteside County
Sterling Public Library Obituary Index
815-625-1370
http://www1.youseemore.com/sterling/readyref.asp
 
Will County
Joliet Public Library Obituary Index
1975-2012 815-846-6500
Click on Find Information, then Genealogy
http://jolietlibrary.org/
 
Genealogy Societies with Newspaper Indexes
Boone County Historical Museum Obituary Index
Over 25,000 names; $5 each
815-544-2580 research@bchmuseum.org
http://www.bchmuseum.org/obits.html
 
Cook County
Polish Genealogical Society of America
Chicago Area Death Notice Index
1890-1929, 1930-1971
http://www.pgsa.org/database.php
 
Cook County
Maywood Herald Obituary Card Index, 1885-2002
https://familysearch.org/search/collection/1929848
 
DeWitt County Obituaries
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~ildewitt/obituaries.html
 
Greene County Obituaries
http://greene.illinoisgenweb.org/newspapers/index.htm
 
Hamilton County
McLeansboro Obituaries 1996-2001
http://www.mcleansboro.com/obits/
 
Iroquois County Obituaries
Prior to 1950; updated as of Feb. 2014
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~ilicgs/moredata/morendx.htm
 
Jefferson County Obituaries
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~iljeffer/obits/obit_index.html
 
Jersey County Historical Society Obituary Index
Large database; $2 each
http://jersey.illinoisgenweb.org/obits/obit.html
 
La Salle County Genealogy Guild Obituaries on File
http://www.lscgg.org/lscgg_search.html
 
Lee County Genealogical Society Newspaper Index
815-288-6702
http://www.leecoilgen.org/dixon-telegraph-index-pre-1948/
 
Macon County Obituaries
http://macon.illinoisgenweb.org/obits.html
 
Macoupin County Obituaries
http://macoupinctygenealogy.org/obits/index.html
 
Madison County Obituaries
http://madison.illinoisgenweb.org/obituaries.html
 
McHenry County Genealogical Society Death Notices
Crystal Lake Herald, 1880-1979
http://www.mcigs.org/search-records.html
 
McHenry County Historical Society Obituaries Index
815-923-2267
http://www.mchsonline.org/Obituaries
 
Ogle County Obituaries
Obituaries of early settlers
http://ogle.illinoisgenweb.org/obituaries.htm
 
Rock Island Historical Society Obituaries Index
http://www.richs.cc/Page/Obituaries.aspx?nt=916
 
St. Clair County Genealogical Society Obituary Indexes
http://www.stclair-ilgs.org/stchome.htm
 
St. Clair County
O'Fallon Historical Society Obituary and Marriage Index
1898-2007
http://www.ofallonhistory.net/Progress-index.html
 
St. Clair County
Mascoutah Herald In Memoriam, 1912-1971
http://tinyurl.com/lquntxh
 
Vermilion County
Danville Jewish Community Obituary Index
http://www.danvillejewishcommunity.com/obituaries.html
 
Tampico Historical Society Local History Index
Whiteside County
http://www.tampicohistoricalsociety.com/Index.html
 
Digitized Newspaper Collections
Illinois Civil War Newspapers
http://dig.lib.niu.edu/cwnewspapers/index.html
 
Illinois Digital Newspaper Collection,
University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
http://tinyurl.com/mfsqwmp
 
Adams County
Quincy Public Library Newspaper Archive
1835-1919
http://quincylibrary.org/newspaper-archive/
 
Clay County
Flora Public Library Digital Newspapers
http://www.idaillinois.org/cdm/search/collection/fpl01
 
Cook County
Hyde Park Herald, 1882-2008
http://hpherald.com/archive/
 
Cook County
Polish Daily News (Dziennik Zwiazkowy)
1908-1917
http://tinyurl.com/mtb4xog
 
Cook County
Barrington Courier-Review Indexes
http://tinyurl.com/kr5qyhz
 
Cook County
Barrington Review
http://tinyurl.com/lk69ovr
 
Cook County
Hyde Park Herald Digital Collections
http://hpherald.com/new-and-improved-digital-archives/
 
Cook County
Chicago Public Library Digital Collections
Chicago Examiner, 1908-1918
http://tinyurl.com/pafnuv4
 
Henry County
Digital Archives of Geneseo Public Library District
1856-2001
http://geneseo.advantage-preservation.com/
 
Lake County
Antioch News
https://archive.org/details/antiochnews
 
LaSalle County
Digital Archives of the Earlville Library District
1868-2010
http://earlville.advantage-preservation.com/
 
McHenry and Kane Counties
Huntley Area Digital Newspapers
http://tinyurl.com/k4bdv8j
 
Whiteside County
Sterling Public Library Digital Archives
http://sterlingpl.newspaperarchive.com/
 
Microfilmed Newspaper Collections
Illinois Newspaper Project
University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
1408 W. Gregory Dr.
Urbana, IL 61801
217-333-2290
481 titles
Available through interlibrary loan
http://www.library.illinois.edu/inp/microfilm.php
 
Chicago History Museum Research Center
Chicago Historical Society
601 North Clark St.
Chicago, IL 60614-6038
312-799-2036
Chicago Tribune, 1849-1988
Chicago Defender, 1910-1975
Access is on-site only
http://libguides.chicagohistory.org/newspapers
 
Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library and Museum
112 N. 6th St.
Springfield, IL 62701
217-785-7956
More than 5,000 titles on nearly 100,000 reels
Titles from every county, from 1814
Available through interlibrary loan
Online index for 1831-1860
http://tinyurl.com/mkhlwpy









Indiana


Libraries with Newspaper Indexes
Indiana State Library Obituary Database
317-232-3689
http://www.in.gov/library/databases.htm
 
Indiana State Library
Genealogy Databases, Indexes & Internet Resources
http://www.in.gov/library/3126.htm
 
Allen County Public Library Obituary Databases
http://www.genealogycenter.info/fwacdb.php
 
Boone County
Lebanon Public Library Indexes
765-482-3460
http://tinyurl.com/lzvrs76 
 
Cass County Obituaries
Index to Logansport Newspapers, 1848-1855
https://www.statelib.lib.in.us/logansportnews/logan_search.asp
 
Clinton County
Frankfort Community Public Library Newspaper Index
765-654-8746
http://www.accs.net/fcpl/obit.htm
 
Dearborn County
Lawrenceburg Public Library District Local History Indexes
812-537-2775
http://www.lpld.lib.in.us/history.htm
 
DeKalb County
Garrett Public Library Obituary Database
260-357-5485
http://obit.gpl.lib.in.us/
 
Elkhart County
Elkhart Public Library Obituary Database
574-522-5669
http://www.myepl.org/epl/cgi-bin/obituary_search.php
 
Elkhart County
Wakarusa Public Library Historical Room Index
574-862-2465
http://www.wakarusa.lib.in.us/historical/obituaries.asp
 
Fayette County Public Library Obituary Index
765-827-0883
http://www.fcplibrary.lib.in.us/audiences/genealogist
 
Floyd County Public Library Newspaper Index
812-944-8464
http://www.nafclibrary.org/newspaper-index/
 
Fulton County Public Library Newspaper Index
ref@fulco.lib.in.us
http://tinyurl.com/k45zl6x
 
Grant County
Marion Public Library Obituary Database
765-668-2900
http://www.marion.lib.in.us/Departments/email2.aspx
 
Harrison County Public Library Obituary Database
812-738-5412
http://www.hcpl.lib.in.us/genealogy/
 
Hendricks County
Plainfield-Guilford Township Public Library Databases
317-839-6602 ext. 2114
http://tinyurl.com/pmxn2oa 
 
Hendricks County
Brownsburg Public Library Local History
317-852-3167
http://www.brownsburg.lib.in.us/history.html
 
Jasper County Public Library
Rensselaer Republican Obit Index, 1910-1939, 1950-1959
KV Post Obituaries, 1930's-2000s
219-866-5881
http://www.jasperco.lib.in.us/genealogy/records/obituaries
 
Jefferson County Public Library Local History Index
812-265-2744
http://www.mjcpl.org/historyrescue/
 
Johnson County
Edinburgh Wright-Hageman Public Library Obituary Search
812-526-5487
http://tinyurl.com/qz5sdd3
 
Knox County Public Library Local History Indexes
812-886-4380 publib@kcpl.lib.in.us
http://tinyurl.com/p5uu2xe
 
Kosciusko County
North Webster Community Public Library Local History
574-834-7122
http://nweb.lib.in.us/indiana_room/
 
La Porte County
Michigan City Public Library Obituary Index
219-873-3044
http://www.mclib.org/genealogy/obituaryindex.html
 
Lake County
Hammond Public Library Obituary Database
$5 each
219-931-5100 hpl@hammond.lib.in.us
http://www.hammond.lib.in.us/obits.htm
 
Madison County
Anderson Public Library Obituary Index, 1850-2012
765-641-2456
http://www.and.lib.in.us/special-collections/
 
Madison County
Alexandria-Monroe Public Library Obituary Index
765-724-2196
http://obits.alex.lib.in.us/
North Madison County Public Library System Database
765-552-5001
http://historical.elwood.lib.in.us/obituaries.asp
 
Marshall County
Bremen Public Library Obituary Database
574-546-2849
http://www.bremen.lib.in.us/heritage/
 
Marshall County
Plymouth Public Library Obituary Index, 1922-1983
574-936-2324
http://www.plymouth.lib.in.us/obituary_index.html
 
Monroe County Public Library Obituary Index
812-349-3080
http://mcpl.info/indiana/monroe-county-obituary-index
 
Montgomery County
Crawfordsville District Public Library Obituary Database
765-362-2242
http://www.cdpl.lib.in.us/databases.php
 
Morgan County
Mooresville Public Library Obituary Finder
317-831-7323
http://mooresvillelib.net/obitsystem/obitview.asp
 
Perry County
Tell City-Perry County Public Library Obituary Database
ckaufman@tcpclibrary.org
http://www.tcpclibrary.org/genealogy.html
 
Porter County Public Library Genealogy Databases
http://engagedpatrons.org/database/pcpls/federated/
 
Putnam County Public Library Genealogy Databases
765-653-2755 ext. 120http://www.putnam.lib.in.us/lh/index.php
 
St. Joseph County Public Library Obituary Index
South Bend Tribune, 1913-present
http://www2.sjcpl.org/obits/home.php
 
Starke County Public Library Local History Index
574-772-5393
http://tinyurl.com/lzbeuqz
 
Sullivan County Public Library Genealogy Databases
812-268-4957
http://www.sullivan.lib.in.us/online-resources/
 
Vanderburgh County
Evansville Vanderburgh Public Library Obituary Search
http://browning.evcpl.lib.in.us/
 
Vanderburgh County
Willard Library Genealogy Databases
812-425-4309
http://www.willard.lib.in.us/online_resources/index.php
 
Vigo County Public Library Obituary Index
Terre Haute newspapers, 1900-2007 812-232-1113
http://www.vigo.lib.in.us/obituaries
 
Wells County Public Library Genealogy Databases
260-824-1612
http://tinyurl.com/qj44j8q
 
Whitley County
Peabody Public Library Obituary Database
260-244-5653
http://www.ppl.lib.in.us/Adults/genealogy.html
 
Genealogy Societies with Newspaper Indexes
Adams County Newspaper Index
http://adamsingenweb.com/Obits/ObitsIndex.html
 
Brown County Obituaries
See: Monroe County
(many people from Brown County died in Bloomington Hospital, Monroe County)
 
Cass County Obituaries
Kokomo Tribune Index, 1928-present
http://www.edanddebby.com/ktobits/index.html
 
Clark County Indiana Newspaper Index
1872-1900
http://tinyurl.com/mz5mre6
 
Fountain County
West Central Indiana Genealogical Library
Over 200,000 obits (not online)
http://indianagenweb.com/infountain/obituaries/
 
Gibson County Obituaries
Before 2009:
http://www.ingenweb.org/ingibson/Obituaries/Obit_index_2.htm
Since 2009:
http://www.ingenweb.org/ingibson/Obituaries/Obit_index.htm
 
Henry County
Banner Obituary Index, 1908-2000
http://thebanneronline.com/
 
Howard County Memory Project
http://www.howardcountymemory.net/
 
Howard County
Kokomo Tribune Obituary Index
http://www.edanddebby.com/ktobits/index.html
 
Montgomery County Obituary Index
http://indianagenweb.com/inmontgomery/
 
Noble County Obituary Index
https://sites.google.com/site/noblecountyingenweb
 
Orange County Obituaries
http://www.ingenweb.org/inorange/obituaries/preobit1.htm
 
Parke County Obituaries
Index for 1853-2013; $1 each
http://www.indianagenweb.com/inparke/ParkeCountyObituaryIndex.htm
Porter County
Northwest Indiana Genealogical Society
Death Notices and Obituaries
http://www.nwigs.org/
 
Porter County Genealogy Databases
http://www.inportercounty.org/
 
Posey County Obituaries
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~inposey2/obits/Obit_index.htm
 
Randolph County Obituary Index
Union City newspapers, 1934-1949
http://randolph.dcoweb.org/UCobits/
 
Rush County Genealogical Society Obituary Project
http://www.rushcogs.com/obituary-project.html
 
Scott County Obituary Index, 1880-1978
http://tinyurl.com/k8hh6lp
 
Shelby County Obituary Index
http://www.shelbycountyindiana.org/
 
Steuben County Obituaries
http://www.ingenweb.org/insteuben/obits/index.html
 
Switzerland County
Vevay Newspaper Index
http://tinyurl.com/nwssucp
 
Tippecanoe County Obituary Index
http://www.ingenweb.org/intippecanoe/
 
Tippecanoe County Death Notices and Obituaries
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~intcags/
 
Tipton County Genealogy Databases
http://tiptongenealogy.blogspot.com/
 
Union County Genealogy Databases
http://ucgenweb.org/union_county_research.htm
 
Vermilion County Obituaries
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~invermil/obits/
 
White County Obituaries
Index to Monticello Herald, 1869-1895
http://grins.freeservers.com/white_co__in.htm
 
Genealogical Society of Whitley County
Obituary Database
http://whitleycountyin.org/
 
Digitized Newspaper Collections
Indiana Historic Newspaper Program
https://newspapers.library.in.gov/
 
Purdue University Libraries
Indiana Farmer, 1851-1917
http://tinyurl.com/3pjvzhg
 
Allen County Public Library Digital Archives
Several Fort Wayne, IN newspapers
http://acpl.newspaperarchive.com/Browse.aspx
 
Daviess County
Digital Archives of Washington Carnegie Public Library
1857-1925
Free registration required
http://washingtonpl.newspaperarchive.com/
 
Delaware County
Ball State University Digital Media Repository
Muncie Post-Democrat, 1921-1950's
Muncie Times, 1991+
http://libx.bsu.edu/cdm/browseby?op=format#Newspapers
Indianapolis Public Library
Marion County
Free Soil Banner, 1848-1854
http://tinyurl.com/pe8pr7w
 
Vanderburgh County
Evansville Public Library Local History Database
http://local.evpl.org/
 
Vanderburgh County
University of Southern Indiana
David L. Rice Library
Evansville Argus, 1938-1945
http://tinyurl.com/oa2hh6u
 
Microfilmed Newspaper Collections
Indiana Historical Society
450 West Ohio St.
Indianapolis, IN 46202
317-232-1882
More than 1200 titles
Available for purchase
http://tinyurl.com/qhhhfug









Iowa


Libraries with Newspaper Indexes
Des Moines County
Burlington Public Library Genealogy Index
1830s to 1897 319-753-1647
http://engagedpatrons.org/database/bplgenealogy/
 
Polk County
Des Moines Public Library Obituary Index
515-283-4152 reference@dmpl.org
http://dmpl.org/our-collection/research/
 
Poweshiek County
Drake Community Library Obituary Database
641-236-2661
http://www.grinnell.lib.ia.us/files/obitsearch.htm
 
Scott County
Davenport Public Library Local History Database
563-326-7902
http://www.qcmemory.org/
 
Genealogy Societies with Newspaper Indexes
Iowa County GenWeb Message Boards
Organized by county; some have thousands of obits posted
http://iagenweb.org/state/countygrid.htm
 
Adair County Anquestors Genealogy Society
Obituary Index
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~iaaags/
 
Black Hawk County Obituaries
http://iagenweb.org/blackhawk/alpha/obalph01.htm
 
Butler County Obituaries
1700s to 1930; over 12,000 entries. $2 each
http://iagenweb.org/butler/obituarycenter.htm
 
Harrison County Obituaries, 1893-1920
http://iagenweb.org/harrison/obit/a-f.htm
 
Howard County Obituaries through March 2014
http://iagenweb.org/howard/obits/Index/AA.htm
 
Ida County Obituaries
1872-1896; 1902-1952; 1954-1971
No index; transcribed articles arranged by year
http://iagenweb.org/ida/NewspaperIndex.htm
 
Linn County Obituary Database
http://iagenweb.org/linn/
 
Madison County Genealogy Indexes
http://iagenweb.org/madison/
 
Mills County Genealogy Indexes
http://iagenweb.org/mills/
 
Mitchell County Obituaries
http://iagenweb.org/mitchell/alpha/obalph01.htm
 
Monroe County Obituaries
Lovilla Press, 1907-1961
http://www.iamonroe.org/LoviliaPress/index.htm
 
Warren County Historical Society
To order: http://warrencountyhistory.org/research/indexes/default.php
Index 1859-2010
$3 for the first name; $2 each for additional names
http://iagenweb.org/warren/obituaries/obits_a.html
Index of handwritten obits 1870-1969
http://iagenweb.org/warren/obituaries/handwrit_obits.html
 
Digitized Newspaper Collections
Adams County
Digital Archives of the Adams County Free Press
http://adamscountyia.newspaperarchive.com/
 
Appanoose County
Digital Archives of the Centerville Iowegian, 1876-2000
http://centerville.advantage-preservation.com/search/site
 
Appanoose County
Digital Archives of the Moravia Public Library
1911-2006
http://moravia.newspaperarchive.com/
 
Bremer County
Digital Archives of the Sumner Public Library
1881-2008
http://sumnerpl.newspaperarchive.com/
 
Digital Archives of the Carroll County Public Library
1884-2010
http://carrollpl.newspaperarchive.com/
 
Cherokee County
Digital Archives of the Aurelia Public Library
1886-2003
http://aurelia.newspaperarchive.com/
 
Clay County
Digital Archives of the Spencer Public Library
1884-1959
http://spencerpl.newspaperarchive.com/
 
Digital Archives of the Floyd County Museum
1930-1931 & 2007
http://cc.newspaperarchive.com/
 
Grundy County
Digital Archives of the Kling Memorial Library
1868-1880
http://grundycenter.advantage-preservation.com/
 
Digital Archives of the Hamilton County Libraries
1857-1869
http://hamiltoncounty.advantage-preservation.com/#sthash.Fpwkgfzn.dpuf
 
Humboldt County
Digital Archives of Renwick Public Library
1895-1966, 1966-1971
http://renwickpubliclibrary.newspaperarchive.com/
 
Digital Archives of the Jones County Genealogical Society
1856-2007
http://jonescounty.advantage-preservation.com/
 
Jones County
Digital Archives of the Ross & Elizabeth Baty Public Library
Monticello Express, 1865-2004
http://batypl.newspaperarchive.com/
 
Linn County
Digital Archives of the Cedar Rapids Public Library
1837, 1853-2013
http://crpubliclibrary.newspaperarchive.com/
 
Digital Archives of Mills County, 1864-2009
http://millscounty.newspaperarchive.com/
 
Mills County
Digital Archives of the Glenwood Public Library
1864-2009
http://glenwoodpl.newspaperarchive.com/
 
Plymouth County
Digital Archives of Plymouth County
1876-2008
http://plymouthcounty.newspaperarchive.com/
 
Polk County
Digital Archives of the Johnston Historical Society
1971-2005
http://johnstonhs.newspaperarchive.com/
 
Polk County
Digital Archives of the Altoona Public Library
1890-2000
http://altoonapl.newspaperarchive.com/
 
Digital Archives of Sioux County
1872-2008
http://siouxcounty.newspaperarchive.com/
 
Story County
Digital Archives of the Roland Historical Society
1895-1975
http://rolandhistory.newspaperarchive.com/
 
Wayne County
Digital Archives of Seymour, Iowa, 1890-2012
http://seymour.advantage-preservation.com/search/site
 
Winnebago County
Digital Archives of the Buffalo Center Tribune
1894-2011
http://buffalocenter.newspaperarchive.com/
 
University of Iowa Libraries, Iowa Digital Library
The Daily Iowan college newspapers, 1868-2014
http://dailyiowan.lib.uiowa.edu/
 
Microfilmed Newspaper Collections
State Historical Society of Iowa
402 Iowa Ave.
Iowa City IA 52240-1806
319-335-3916
Available for interlibrary loan; $6 fee
http://tinyurl.com/myzmpxz
 
Iowa State University
Ames, IA 50011
515-294-4111
http://tinyurl.com/mw3lst3









Kansas


Libraries with Newspaper Indexes
Douglas County
Lawrence Public Library
Helen Osma Local History Collection
Index is not online; they have indexes for newspapers of Lawrence, 1864-1881 785-843-1178
http://www.lawrence.lib.ks.us/
 
Edwards County
Kinsley Library Newspaper Index
620-659-3341 director@kinsleylibrary.info
Indexes for births, marriages, deaths, and news events for several years Copies are $1
http://tmp.kinsleylibrary.info/genealogy%20resourcesweb.htm
 
McPherson County Public Library Obituary Index
1872-present 620-245-2570
http://www.macpl.org/localhistory.html
 
Rooks County
Plainville Memorial Library Obituary Index, 1884-2012
785-434-2786 pville2@ruraltel.net
http://plainvillepl.blogspot.com/
 
Rush County
Barnard Library Obituaries
785-222-2826
http://blibraryobits.blogspot.com/
 
Salina County Public Library
Campbell Room of Kansas Research
Card file of births, marriages & deaths before 1900 (not yet online)
785-825-4624 support@salpublib.org
http://www.salinapubliclibrary.org 
 
Seward County
Liberal Memorial Library
620-626-0180
Searchable index of obits, births, marriages, 1885-present
search results arranged by category
http://www.lmlibrary.org/vitalstats/index.asp
 
Shawnee County
Topeka and Shawnee County Public Library
Obituary Index, 1906-present
785-783-0096
http://catalog.tscpl.org/polaris/default.aspx?ctx=85
 
Stevens County Library Obituary Database, 1887-2006
620-544-2301 library@stevenscountylibrary.com
http://www.stevenscountylibrary.com/
 
Wilson County
W.A. Rankin Memorial Library Obituary Index
620-325-3275
http://tinyurl.com/phsj9hv
 
Genealogy Societies with Newspaper Indexes
Harvey County Genealogy Database
http://www.hcgsks.org/harcodatabase/index.php
 
Jackson County Genealogy Society
Transcription from Jackson Co. Newspapers, 1872-1923
http://tinyurl.com/komuorn
 
Johnson County History Projects
http://www.jocohistory.org/cdm/research/collection/
and
http://joco-ks.genweb.us/
 
Lyon County
Flint Hills Genealogy Society
Over 100,000 entries
Index to Emporia Gazette Death Notices, 1892-1989
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~ksfhgslc/obithome.html
 
Norton County Obituary Indexes
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~ksncgs2
 
Osage County Genealogical Society
Obituary Index, 1885 to present
$2.00 for each item copied. Index to names only; taken from scrapbook, sometimes with no newspaper name or date. Some obits may require looking at microfilm to find full citation
http://osagechs.org/OBIT_MASTER_INDEX.htm
 
Reno County Genealogical Society Index to card file
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~ksrcgs/obits/obits.htm
 
Sedgewick County
Midwest Historical and Genealogical Society Indexes
Wichita
http://mhgswichita.org/records.html
 
Digitized Newspaper Collections
Osborn County
Digital Archives of the Osborn Public Library, 1876-1885
785-346-5486; osbor1lb@ruraltel.net
http://osborne.advantage-preservation.com/
 
Republic County
Digital Archives of the Belleville Public Library
1870-2005
http://belleville.newspaperarchive.com/
 
Microfilmed Newspaper Collections
Kansas Historical Society
6425 SW 6th Ave.
Topeka, KS 66615-1099
785-272-8681
Searchable by city, title, county, date range
Available for interlibrary loan
http://www.kshs.org/p/kansas-newspapers-on-microfilm/11528
 
Books
History of Kansas Newspapers, 1854-1916. Kansas State Historical Society, 1916.









Kentucky


Libraries with Newspaper Indexes
Boyd County Library Obituary Index
606-329-0090
http://thebookplace.org/genealogy/databases/
 
Bullitt County Public Library Obituary Database
502-543-7675 reference@bcplib.org
Transcribed issues of The Bullitt Pioneer, 1901-1924
PDF; not indexed
http://www.bcplib.org/Genealogy/Pioneer.html
 
Daviess County Public Library
Owensboro Area Obituary Index
1842-present 270-684-0211
http://obits.dcplibrary.org/
 
Fayette County
Lexington Public Library Local History Index
1787-2007; 859-231-5523
http://local.lexpublib.org/local.php
 
Henderson County Public Library Obituary Finder
270-826-3712
http://www.hcpl.org/evanced/genealogy/obitview.asp
 
LaRue County Public Library Microfilm Index
LaRue County Herald, 1921-1986
270-358-3851 info@laruelibrary.org
http://kykinfolk.com/larue/larue4.htm#obits
Genealogy Societies with Newspaper Indexes
Johnson County Kentucky Historical & Genealogical Society
Obituary Database
http://freepages.genealogy.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~jccem/
 
Trimble County Obituaries
Index to the Trimble Democrat, 1928-1929
http://www.ole.net/~maggie/trimble/obitmain.htm
 
Digitized Newspaper Collections
Kentucky Digital Library
http://tinyurl.com/knvewzw
 
Kenton County Public Library
Northern Kentucky Newspaper Index
http://tinyurl.com/lmhuyon
Full text articles, searchable by subject, author, title
 
Microfilmed Newspaper Collections
University of Kentucky Libraries
500 S. Limestone St.
Lexington, KY 40506-0456
859-257-0500
Kentucky Newspapers Ordering Database
Searchable by city, county or date range
Available for interlibrary loan
http://libraries.uky.edu/record.php?lir_id=272
 
Louisville Free Public Library
Kentucky Newspapers on Microfilm
301 York St.
Louisville, KY 40203
http://www.lfpl.org/newspapers.htm#kentucky
 
Kentucky Historical Society
Kentucky Newspapers on Microfilm
100 W. Broadway
Frankfort, KY 40601
502-564-1792
http://kyhistory.com/cdm/ref/collection/LIB/id/1471









Louisiana


Libraries with Newspaper Indexes
East Baton Rouge Parish Library Obituary Index
1952-1991 255-231-3750
http://www.ebrpl.com/obits.html
 
Jefferson Parish Library Obituary Search
504-838-1100
http://www.jefferson.lib.la.us/obit/ObitSearch.asp
 
Orleans Parish
New Orleans Public Library
Biography & Obituary Index 504-529-READ
http://neworleanspubliclibrary.org/obits/obits.htm
 
St. Tammany Parish Library Obituary Records Search
985-646-6470 ext. 3
http://www.sttammany.lib.la.us/cfdb/obits/obitsearch.cfm
 
Washington Parish Library Obituary Index
985-839-7806
http://www.washington.lib.la.us/obituaries.htm
 
Genealogy Societies with Newspaper Indexes
Acadia Parish Obituary Index
Index to Acadia Parish newspapers; over 81,000 in alphabetical order
http://www.theusgenweb.org/la/acadia/obitproj.htm
 
East Baton Rouge Parish
Baton Rouge Newspaper Index, 1952-1959, 1980-1991
http://freepages.genealogy.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~lwrr/
 
Digitized Newspaper Collections
Louisiana Digital Library
http://tinyurl.com/kftrcob
 
Digital Archives of Acadia Parish Library
scanned images, searchable for several years
http://acadia.advantage-preservation.com/
 
Jefferson Parish Library
New Orleans Bee
http://www.jplibrary.net/reference/genealogy.htm
 
Microfilmed Newspaper Collections
Louisiana State University Louisiana Newspaper Project
Baton Rouge, LA 70803
225-587-6339
Available for interlibrary loan
http://www.lib.lsu.edu/special/cc/lnp.html
 
Books
Mayers, Brenda L. and Gloria L. Kerns. Death Notices from Louisiana Newspapers, 1811-1919. v.1-6. Louisiana: Folk Finders, 1984.









Maine


Libraries with Newspaper Indexes
Cumberland County
Curtis Memorial Library,
Snow Index to Brunswick Newspapers
207-725-5242 ext. 510
http://tinyurl.com/m2xxmvt
 
Penobscot County
Abbot Memorial Library Obituary Database
207-924-7292
http://www.abbott-library.com/
 
York County
Goodall Library Obituary Index, Sanford & Springvale Newspapers, 1890s to present
207-324-4714
http://lbgoodall.org/obits/index.php
 
Genealogy Societies with Newspaper Indexes
Hancock County Index of Deaths & Marriages,
Ellsworth Newspapers, 1853-1891
http://www.mnopltd.com/jean/
 
Digitized Newspaper Collections
Cumberland County
Digital Archives of Bridgton Public Library
http://bridgton.advantage-preservation.com/
 
Cumberland County
Maine Memory Network
The Cruiser (South Freeport)
http://tinyurl.com/n5f5thc
 
Hancock County
Digital Archives of the Friends of Island History
Bar Harbor Times, Bar Harbor Record, 1881-1968
http://islandhistory.newspaperarchive.com/
 
Penobscot County
Digital Archives of the Old Town Public Library
1888-1984
http://oldtown.advantage-preservation.com/
 
Microfilmed Newspaper Collections
Maine State Library
64 State House Station
Augusta, ME 04333
207-287-5600
http://tinyurl.com/m6kp7ec
 
Maine State Archives
#84 Fire House Station
Augusta, ME 04333-0084
207-287-5791
Searchable database of newspaper titles
https://www.maine.gov/online/archives/
 
University of Maine
Raymond H. Fogler Library
Orono, ME 04469-5729
207-581-1661
http://www.library.umaine.edu/speccoll/newspapers.htm
 
Portland Public Library
6 Monument Square
Portland, ME 04101
207-871-1700
http://www.portlandlibrary.com/topics/genealogy/
 
Bethel Historical Society
10-14 Broad St., P.O. Box 12
Bethel, ME 04217-0012
207-824-2908
http://www.bethelhistorical.org/library.html
 
Books
Young, David C. Vital Records from Maine Newspapers, 1785-1820. 2v. Bowie, Maryland: Heritage Books, 1993.









Maryland


Libraries with Newspaper Indexes
Garrett County
Ruth Enlow Library Obituary Database
301-334-3996
http://www.relib.net/hist_genealogy/gene_history.asp
 
Washington County Free Library Obituary Locator
1790-2012 301-739-3250
http://www.washcolibrary.org/localhistory/genealogy.asp
 
Genealogy Societies with Newspaper Indexes
Allegany County
Western Maryland Historical Library Obituary Database
http://www.whilbr.org/PercyCemetery/index.aspx
 
Baltimore Area Newspapers Database
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~mdbaltim
 
Polish Genealogical Society of America
Index to Polish language newspapers in Baltimore, 1926-1946
http://www.pgsa.org/jednosc.php
 
Digitized Newspaper Collections
Maryland Gazette, 1728-1839
http://aomol.msa.maryland.gov/html/mdgazette.html
(PDF images)
 
Various Maryland Newspapers
(PDF images from microfilm; not indexed)
http://tinyurl.com/lx8xlz6
 
Microfilmed Newspaper Collections
Maryland State Archives
350 Rowe Blvd.
Annapolis, MD 21401
410-260-6474
http://tinyurl.com/loaxlhd
 
Enoch Pratt Free Library
Central Library & State Library Resource Center
400 Cathedral St.
Baltimore, MD 21201
410-396-5430
http://tinyurl.com/o3d6o4w
 
Books
Barnes, Robert W. Gleanings from Maryland Newspapers. 4v., 1727-1795. Lutherville, Maryland: Carothers, 1975.
 
Barnes, Robert W. Marriages and Deaths from the Maryland Gazette, 1727-1839. Baltimore: Gen. Publishing Co., 1973.
 
Green, Karen Mauer, The Maryland Gazette, 1727-1761: Genealogical and Historical Abstracts. Galveston, Texas: Frontier, 1989.









Massachusetts


Libraries with Newspaper Indexes
Bristol County
Fall River Public Library Obituary Index
frweb@sailsinc.org
http://fallriverlibrary.org/research.html
 
Middlesex County
Lincoln Public Library Obituary Database
781- 259-8465
http://www.lincolnpl.org/index.php/
 
Suffolk County
Boston Public Library Obituary Database
617- 536-5400
http://www.bpl.org/collections
 
Worcester County Public Library Obituary Index
508-799-1655
http://www.worcpublib.org/resources/eveningpost.htm
 
Genealogy Societies with Newspaper Indexes
Franklin County News Archive
http://www.publicationarchive.com/
 
Suffolk County
Boston Jewish Advocate Index, 1905-2007
(from Ancestry - free database, requires registration)
http://tinyurl.com/ng8xzqn
 
Zimmer Newspaper Index Project, 1878-1937
(state-wide)
http://www.mass.gov/anf/research-and-tech/oversight-agencies/lib/zimmer-newspaper-index.html
 
Digitized Newspaper Collections
Barnstable County
Provincetown Public Library - Provincetown Advocate
508-487-7094
http://provincetownlibrary.org/local-national-newspapers/
 
Barnstable County
Sturgis Library - Barnstable Patriot
http://apa.olivesoftware.com/Olive/APA/Sturgis/
 
Middlesex County
Cambridge Public Library
http://cambridge.dlconsulting.com/
 
Middlesex County
Lincoln Public Library Obituary Database
781-259-8465
http://tinyurl.com/krleyvo 
 
Nantucket County
Nantucket Atheneum
Digitized newspapers from 1822; click on research and then digital newspaper archive
http://www.nantucketatheneum.org/
 
Norfolk County
Brookline Public Library (index only)
617- 730-2370
http://www.brooklinelibrary.org/what/brookline-indexes
 
Microfilmed Newspaper Collections
Massachusetts Newspaper Program
Boston Public Library
700 Boylston St.
Boston, MA 02116
617-536-5400 x4236
http://www.bpl.org/research/microtext/news.htm
 
Books
Index of Marriages in Massachusetts Centinel and Columbia Centinel, 1784 to 1840. Boston: G.K. Hall, 1961.
 
A Guide to Newspaper Indexes in New England. New England Library Association, 1978.









Michigan


Libraries with Newspaper Indexes
Alpena County Library Newspaper Database
1871-1899 989- 356-6188
http://www.alpenalibrary.org/?q=node/35
 
Bay County Library
Index to Piconning newspapers, 1906-2013
Request copies from Piconning Library
989-879-3283 jmarks@baycountylibrary.org
http://www.mifamilyhistory.org/bay/2011BDMIndex/
 
Benzie County
Benzonia Public Library Newspaper Index
231-882-4111
Comprehensive index to births, marriages, deaths, divorces, court cases, 1888-2010
http://www.usgwarchives.net/mi/benzie/1001news.htm
 
Berrien County
Niles District Library Newspaper Index
http://tinyurl.com/n2t3dw4
 
Calhoun County
Albion District Library Obituaries Index
517- 629-3993
http://tinyurl.com/q2tbrdu
 
Calhoun County
Willard Library Newspaper Index, 1967-2012
269- 968-8166
http://www.willard.lib.mi.us/
 
Charlevoix County Library Obituary Search
1940-present 231- 547-2651
http://tinyurl.com/nc5749e 
 
Chippewa County
Bayliss Public Library Obituary Index
1888-present for Sault Ste. Marie Evening News
In-house Obituary index, pre-1880s
http://www.uproc.lib.mi.us/bpl/steerenewspapers.html
 
Huron County
Pigeon District Library Joann Haist Collection
Abstracts of newspaper births, marriages, obituaries
Sebewaing County, 1897 to 1980. Current obituaries are indexed and available on a separate webpage.
989-453-2341 pdl@pigeondistrictlibrary.com 
http://www.pigeondistrictlibrary.com/joannhaist.html
 
Isabella County
Chippewa River District Library Obituary Finder
$3 each mfox@crdl.org 
http://207.75.101.222/evanced/obitsystem/obitview.asp
 
Kalamazoo County
Kalamazoo Public Library Newspaper Index
1972-present 269-342-9837
http://www.kpl.gov/local-info/
 
Kent County
Grand Rapids Public Library Clipping Indexes:
African Americans in the News, 1830-1935
http://www.grpl.org/afro/
Women's History (1840-1930)
http://www.grpl.org/women/
 
Livingston County
Brighton District Library Obituary Index
810-229-6571
http://www.brightonlibrary.info/history
 
Livingston County
Howell Carnegie Library Newspaper Index
331-page PDF, 1850s-1890s
http://www.howelllibrary.org/archives.htm
 
Macomb County
Mount Clemens Public Library Local History Indexes
Obituaries 1941-2012
http://www.mtclib.org/genealog.htm
 
Menominee County Library Newspaper Index
1893-2012 PDF, listed by year
Library, 800-559-8194, 906-753-6923; md@uproc.lib.mi.us
http://tinyurl.com/plcwqf7
 
Newaygo County
Fremont Area District Library Obituary Index and
Marriage Index 231-928-0253
http://www.fremontlibrary.net/local-history-genealogy
 
Oakland County
Waterford Public Library Obituary Indexes
http://www.waterford.lib.mi.us/content/genealogy-and-waterford-history
 
Oakland County
Farmington Library Obituary Index
248-553-0300
http://www.farmlib.org/new_fh_obit_index/
 
Oakland County
Royal Oak Public Library Local History Indexes
248 246-3700
http://www.ropl.org/local-history/
 
Ottawa County
Loutit District Library, Grand Haven
Obituary Index, 1891-1979
Birth Index, 1891-1959
http://loutitlibrary.org/explore-your-past
 
Saginaw County Public Libraries Obituary Index
989-755-9827; plosgene@saginawlibrary.org
no fee; donations gratefully accepted
http://obits.netsource-one.net/
 
Sanilac County
Sandusky District Library Obituary Index
810-648-2644
http://www.sandusky.lib.mi.us/index.php/genealogy
 
Shiawassee District Library Obituary Index
989-725-5134
http://sdl.lib.mi.us/obitindex/
 
Wayne County
Canton Public Library Obituary Index
1974-present
http://www.cantonpl.org/canton-observer
 
Wayne County
Grosse Pointe Public Library Obituary Database
313-343-2074
http://tinyurl.com/ncazb5r
 
Wayne County
Livonia Public Library Obituary Index, 1950-present
734-466-2490
http://livonia.lib.mi.us/obits
 
Genealogy Societies with Newspaper Indexes
Allegan, Berrien, Cass, Kalamazoo and Van Buren Counties
Southwest Michigan Obituary Index
Over 89,000 obituaries
http://tinyurl.com/qb2hsd9
 
Allegan County
Saugatuck Douglas Historical Society
http://sdhistoricalsociety.net/research/index.php
 
Arenac County Historical Society Online Indexes
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~miachs
 
Cheboygan County Newspaper Index
Several Cheboygan & Mackinac County newspapers,
1871-1929
http://www.migenweb.org/cheboygan/news/surcodes.html
 
Clinton County Historical Society Genealogy Indexes
http://www.dewittlibrary.org/CCHS/
 
Delta County Genealogical Society
Newspaper Index, 1909-1919
Housed at Escanaba Public Library, 906-789-READ
http://dcmigs.org/index.htm
 
Grand Traverse County
Northwest Michigan College
Traverse City Record-Eagle Index
https://dspace.nmc.edu/handle/11045/22538
 
Ingham County
Stockbridge Area Genealogical/Historical Society
Newspaper Index
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~misaghs/
 
Ingham County Genealogical Society Newspaper Index
http://www.ingcogenesoc.org/
 
Iosco County
Huron Shores Genealogical Society
Obituary Index, 1875-1948, 1884-1980, 1892-1949
(keep scrolling down the page)
http://www.usgwarchives.net/mi/iosco/3501hsgs.htm
 
Kalamazoo County
Kalamazoo Valley Genealogical Society
Historical Records Database
http://tinyurl.com/p3jnw8s
 
Kent County
Western Michigan Genealogical Society Newspaper Index
Grand Rapids Press & GR Herald,
1910 to present Copies are $5 each
http://data.wmgs.org/
 
Jackson County
Jackson Library District
Card catalog file of newspaper clippings
517-788-4087
http://myjdl.com/research/#tabs-2
 
Lenawee County Newspaper Index, 1890-1899
Index to obits from Morenci area newspapers
http://lenawee.migenweb.net/
 
Manistee County Historical Museum
Huge card index, original newspapers
231-723-5531
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~mimanist/Page63.html
 
Mecosta County Genealogical Society
Obituary Index, 1890s to early 2000s
http://www.commoncorners.com/mcgs/obit_index.htm
 
Monroe County Historical Commission
Obituary Search
http://www.co.monroe.mi.us/egov/searchobituaries.aspx
 
Muskegon County Genealogical Society Databases
http://www.genealogymuskegon.com/
 
Oakland County Historical Resources
Use public login and password to access website
Obituaries from early 1800s
http://www.usgennet.org/usa/mi/county/oakland1/
 
Oakland County
Rochester-Avon Historical Society Death Notices
http://rochesteravonhistoricalsociety.org/
 
St. Joseph County Obituary Index
Burr Oak Acorn
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~mistjose/obits/burroak.htm
 
Van Buren County
Hartford Obituary Index
http://www.hartfordmichigan.com/wwwroot/hartfordhistory
 
Washtenaw County Newspaper Index
1930-2000
http://washtenawgenealogy.org/
 
Wayne County
Detroit Area Death Notices
http://tinyurl.com/lohtf8w
 
Wayne County
Dearborn Genealogical Society
Dearborn Press, 1918-1928
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~midgs
 
Wayne County
Trenton Historical Society Genealogy Databases
http://trentonhistoricalsociety.org/
 
Wayne County
Detroit Free Press, 1831-1922
(free to search the index; charge for articles)
http://pqasb.pqarchiver.com/freep/advancedsearch.html
 
Digitized Newspaper Collections
Central Michigan University, Mount Pleasant
CMU Online Digital Object Repository
Online database of all newspapers in Michigan, by county,
that have been digitized, including those on Chronicling America.
http://condor.cmich.edu/
 
Allegan County
Saugatuck-Douglas Library Commercial Record
Search by content (not much has been indexed) or browse by year
http://commercialrecord.org/
 
Benzie County
Benzie Shores District Library Newspaper Archive
Digital images of several newspapers, 1888-2010
http://www.archiveol.com/benzie/search
 
Emmet County Newspaper Database
Greenwood Cemetery, Petoskey
Scanned PDF issues of early newspapers, 1874-2001
http://www.gwood.us/newspaper-research/
 
Kalamazoo County
Kalamazoo Public Library Regional Publications Index
http://www.archiveol.com/kzoo/search
 
Muskegon County Genealogical Society and
Montague Museum Historical Association
Newspaper Archives
1889-present
http://www.archiveol.com/montague/search
 
Oakland County
Farmington Community Library Local History Resources
http://www.farmlib.org/HeritageCollection/index.html
 
Oakland & Wayne Counties
Northville Historic Records
http://northvillehistory.org/keyword.html
 
Oakland County
Orion Township Public Library Digital Archive
http://orionlibrary.org/idigorion/
 
Otsego County Library Newspaper Archive
1903-2009
http://www.otsego.lib.mi.us/
 
Tuscola County
Rawson Memorial Library, Cass City
http://newspapers.rawson.lib.mi.us/search/
 
Oakland & Washtenaw Counties
Salem-South Lyon Digital Archives
http://www.ssldl.info/gsdl/cgi-bin/library
 
Saginaw County
Frankenmuth Wickson District Library
Digital Images, 1906-2013 for Frankenmuth News
http://www.frankenmutharchives.org/
 
Washtenaw County
Ann Arbor District Library, Signal of Liberty
http://signalofliberty.aadl.org/
 
The Making of Modern Michigan
Directory of Participating Libraries
http://mmm.lib.msu.edu/browse_library.php
 
Wayne County
Grosse Pointe District Library
http://digitize.gp.lib.mi.us/newspapers.htm
 
Microfilmed Newspaper Collections
Library of Michigan
702 W. Kalamazoo St.
P.O. Box 30007
Lansing, MI 48909
517-373-9440
http://tinyurl.com/l4pmz3d
Available for interlibrary loan
 
Clarke Historical Library, Central Michigan University
Park 142
Mount Pleasant, MI 48859
989-774-4000
http://tinyurl.com/lpx8299
 
Michigan State University
Historic Newspapers on Microfilm
366 W. Circle Dr., 2nd Floor, West Wing
East Lansing, MI 48824
517-884-0844
http://tinyurl.com/75b2rjn
 
Books
Link, Muriel. Obituaries Index, 1933-1948. Salt Lake City: Genealogical Society of Utah, 1976.
 
Historical Records Survey of Michigan. Vital Records from the Detroit Free Press, 1831-1868. Salt Lake City: Genealogical Society of Utah, 1973.









Minnesota


Libraries with Newspaper Indexes
St. Louis County
Duluth Public Library Obituary Index
218-730-4200
http://www.duluth.lib.mn.us/research-answers/
 
Stearns County
Great River Regional Library Obituary Index
1928-2012 320-650-2500
http://www.griver.org/sctimes-index
 
Genealogy Societies with Newspaper Indexes
Blue Earth County
Minnesota State University Mankato Free Press
http://lib.mnsu.edu/obituary/
 
Carver County Historical Society Newspaper Index
952-442-4234
http://www.carvercountyhistoricalsociety.org/newspaper
 
Hubbard County Newspaper Index
39 page PDF index listing name, maiden name, death date, age, pub. Date,
caution: dates only give 2 digits for year: 1895 or 1995?
http://usgwarchives.net/mn/hubbard/hubbard.html
 
Mower County Obituaries
Over 9900 transcribed obituaries
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~mnmower/obits/obidex00.htm
 
Norman County Obituaries
172-page PDF listing of obituaries, name but no date
http://tinyurl.com/lkvhrbb
 
Olmsted County Newspaper Index, 1859-1912
http://www.olmstedhistory.com/research-center/
 
Pennington County Historical Society Obituary Search
http://pchs.org/cemeteries/
 
Scott County Historical Society Surname Index Search
952-445-0378
http://scottcountyhistory.org/schs-collections/
 
Sherburne County
Sherburne History Center Obituary Index
763-261-4433
http://www.sherburnehistorycenter.org/online.html
 
Wilkin County Historical Society Obituary Index
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~mnwilkin/
 
Digitized Newspaper Collections
Carver & Hennepin Counties
Chaska Valley Herald
(digitized from microfilm: go to www.archive.org and search for Chaska Valley Herald)
http://tinyurl.com/pga5cas
 
Crow Wing County
City of Brainerd Historic Newspapers
Digitized issues of Brainerd Dispatch, 1883-1901
http://www.ci.brainerd.mn.us/history/newspapers.htm
 
Marshall County
Holt Weekly News
http://holtweeklynews.com/
 
Hennepin County
Minneapolis Labor Review
http://tinyurl.com/ohjv9u8
 
Minnesota Historical Society Digital Newspapers
http://www.mnhs.org/collections/projects/ndnp.php
 
Microfilmed Newspaper Collections
Minnesota Historical Society Newspaper Collection
345 Kellogg Blvd. West
St. Paul, MN 55102-1906
651-296-2143
http://sites.mnhs.org/library/content/newspaper-collection
 
University of Minnesota Libraries
https://www.lib.umn.edu/libdata/page.phtml?page_id=944
 
Books
Minnesota Historical Society Holdings of Newspapers on Master Negative Microfilm. St. Paul, MN: 1987.









Mississippi


Libraries with Newspaper Indexes
Lincoln-Lawrence-Franklin Regional Library Obituary Index
http://www.llf.lib.ms.us/webpage_4.htm
 
Genealogy Societies with Newspaper Indexes
Hancock County Historical Society Obituary Index
http://www.hancockcountyhistoricalsociety.com/
 
Prentiss County Genealogical and Historical Society
Obituary Index
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~mspcgs/Index.html
 
Tippah County Death Notices, 1836-1936
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~mstippah/
 
Digitized Newspaper Collections
Jackson-Hinds Library System Clarion-Ledger Index
http://www.jhlibrary.com/reference/cl_index.htm
 
Mississippi Digital Library
http://www.msdiglib.org/
 
University of Southern Mississippi Archives
Civil Rights in Mississippi
http://digilib.usm.edu/crmda.php
 
Microfilmed Newspaper Collections
Mississippi Dept. of Archives and History
200 North St.
Jackson, MS 39201
601-576-6850
http://mdah.state.ms.us/arrec/collection.php
 
Books
Mississippi Historical Records Survey, Mississippi Newspapers, 1805-1940: A Preliminary Union List. Jackson, MS: 1942.









Missouri


Libraries with Newspaper Indexes
Buchanan County
St. Joseph Public Library
Index, 1953-2011 816-232-7729
http://sjpl.lib.mo.us/reference/?page_id=4
 
Greene County
Springfield-Greene County Library District
Historical Index, Springfield newspapers, 1867-2002
http://198.209.8.2:81/screens/opacmenu.html
 
Jefferson County Library Newspaper Index
636-677-8186 info@jeffersoncountylibrary.org 
http://www.jeffersoncountylibrary.org/genealogy-services
 
McDonald County Library Obituary Index
417-223-4489 genealogy@librarymail.org 
http://www.librarymail.org/genehist/obits/
 
Neosho Newton County Library Obituary Index
417-451-4231 info@neosho.lib.mo.us 
http://www.neosholibrary.org/content/genealogy/obituary
 
Putnam County Public Library Obituary Index
Unionville Republican, 1873-present (not online)
660-947-3192
http://putnamcl.lib.mo.us/content/genealogy
 
St. Francois County
Farmington Public Library Genealogy Databases
573-756-5779
http://www.farmington-mo.gov/Genealogy.cfm
 
St. Louis Public Library Obituary Search
314-241-2288 webref@slpl.org 
http://www.slpl.org/slpl/gateways/article240117800.asp
 
St. Louis County Library
Index to St. Louis Globe-Democrat and others
http://www.slcl.org/genealogy-and-local-history/indexes-by-topic/1030
 
St. Louis County Library
Westliche Post Death Notice Index (German)
http://www.slcl.org/content/westliche-post-death-notice-index
 
St. Louis Public Library
St. Louis Argus Obituary Index (African-American)
314-241-2288 webref@slpl.org 
http://previous.slpl.org/libsrc/argusobit.htm
 
Genealogy Societies with Newspaper Indexes
Adair County Historical Society Obituary Index
http://www.adairchs.org/obits/AdairObitsIndex.htm
 
Atchison County Newspapers
Abstracted newspaper articles, 1879-1882
http://atchison.mogenweb.org/newspaper/index.htm
 
Barry County Newspapers
Abstracted newspaper articles, 1890-1920
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~mobarry/news/news.htm
 
Barton County Newspaper Index
Transcribed obituaries, 1882-1901
http://barton.mogenweb.org/obitsnewspaper.htm
 
Bates County Newspapers
Transcribed births, deaths, marriages, Adrian papers, 1886-1906, 1909, 1911-1917
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~mobates/Newspaper/BatesNews.html
 
Cass County Historical Society Obituary Index
http://casscountyhistoricalsociety.com
 
Cooper County Obituary Index
http://cooper.mogenweb.org/Newspapers/Master_Sorted_Index.htm
also
http://cooper.mogenweb.org/CooperBitsObits.htm
 
Henry County Obituary Index
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~mohenry/
 
Hickory County Obituary Index
Southwest Missouri newspapers, 1840s to present
http://www.looktothepast.com/obitindex.html
 
Macon County Obituary Index
http://macon.mogenweb.org/
 
Miller County Museum & Historical Society
Obituary Index
http://www.millercountymuseum.org/library.html
 
Polk County Genealogical Society Obituary Files
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~mopolkgs/
 
Pulaski County Obituary Abstracts, 1953-1977
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~mopulask/obits.htm
 
Saint Charles County Historical Society Obituary Index
http://scchs.org/
 
Shannon County Obituaries
http://shannon.mogenweb.org/Obits.htm
 
Shelby County Obituary Abstracts
St. Louis Christian Advocate, 1848-1882
http://shelby.mogenweb.org/SLCA_Methodist_obits%20_1840s_1882.pdf
 
Palmyra Newspapers, 1836-1900
http://shelby.mogenweb.org/SHELBY_CO_MO_OBITS_PALMYRA_PAPERS_1836_1900.pdf
 
Sullivan County Local History Index
http://sullivan.mogenweb.org/
 
St. Louis Genealogical Society
Index to St. Louis Globe-Democrat, 1881-1891
http://www.stlgs.org/
 
Digitized Newspaper Collections
Livingston County
Chillicothe Constitution-Tribune
1889-2009
http://chillicothe.newspaperarchive.com/
 
Kansas City Public Library - Missouri Valley Special Collections
http://www.kchistory.org/
 
Missouri Digital Heritage
http://www.sos.mo.gov/mdh/browse.asp?id=12.6
 
State Historical Society of Missouri
Digital Newspaper Collection
http://shs.umsystem.edu/newspaper/mdnp/index.shtml
 
University of Missouri Library Systems
Digital Library
http://digital.library.umsystem.edu/
 
Microfilmed Newspaper Collections
State Historical Society of Missouri
Newspapers on Microfilm
1020 Lowry St.
Columbia, MO 65201-7298
573- 882-7083
http://shs.umsystem.edu/newspaper/newspapercatalog/
 
Books
Taft, William H. Missouri Newspapers, When and Where, 1808-1963. Columbia: University of Missouri, 1964.









Montana


Libraries with Newspaper Indexes
Missoula County Public Library Obituary Index
406-721-2665 mslaplib@missoula.lib.mt.us 
http://www.missoulapubliclibrary.org/MCPL_News/index.php/vital
 
Genealogy Societies with Newspaper Indexes
Gallatin County Genealogical Society Obituary Index
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~mtgcgs/resources.html
 
Lewis and Clark Genealogical Society Obituary Index
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~mtlcgs/
 
Yellowstone County
Billings Gazette Vitals & Indexes
http://mt-billings.civicplus.com/index.aspx?nid=389
 
Digitized Newspaper Collections
Fallon County
Montana Memory: Fallon County Newspapers
http://tinyurl.com/n9wc3z9
 
Gallatin County
Bozeman-Great Falls Newspaper Index
http://tinyurl.com/k4n3lob
 
University of Montana, D'Arcy McNickle Library
Digital CharKoosta News, 1956-1988
Published by the Confederated Salish and Kootenai Tribes of the Flathead Indian Reservation
http://content.lib.umt.edu/cdm/search/collection/charkoosta
 
Microfilmed Newspaper Collections
Missoula Public Library Montana Collection
301 East Main
Missoula, MT 59802
406-721-2665
http://www.missoulapubliclibrary.org/montana-collection
 
University of Montana Mansfield Library
Missoula, MT 59812
406-243-6866
http://libguides.lib.umt.edu/content.php?pid=91660&sid=2295687
 
Montana Historical Society Research Center
225 N. Roberts
Helena, MT 59620-1201
406-444-2681
Available for interlibrary loan http://mhs.mt.gov/Research/collections/newspapers.aspx









Nebraska


Libraries with Newspaper Indexes
Platte & Madison Counties
Columbus and Norfolk Public Library Obituary Index
http://www.onelibraryne.org/obituaries/
 
Genealogy Societies with Newspaper Indexes
Adams County Genealogical Society
Obituary Index, 1877-1979 (not online)
http://incolor.inebraska.com/achs/
 
Blaine County Genealogical Society
Index to Obituary Collection,
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~neblaine/ObitsBlaineCollier.htm
 
Boone County Genealogical Society
Columbus Historical Obituaries, 1930-2006
http://www.onelibraryne.org/obituaries/columbussearchpage.asp
 
Cedar County Genealogical Society
Randolph Times Obituary Index
http://www.usgennet.org/usa/ne/county/cedar/cemeteries/randolphtimesobitindex.txt
 
Douglas County
Omaha Obits
http://omahaobits.wordpress.com/
 
Franklin County Obituary Index File
Over 18,000 names; $1 per name and SASE
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~nefrankl/newsindex.html
 
Greeley County Obituaries
Transcribed obituaries, 1908-1949
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~negreele/obits/index.htm
 
Holt County Obituaries
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~neholt/obits/obit-index.html
 
Merrick County Obituaries
1874-2012
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~nemerric/olres/news/obits/index.htm#Newobits
 
Washington County Genealogical Society Obituary Index
http://www.newashcogs.org/
 
York County Obituaries
1872-1894 and selected later dates
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~neyork/obits/
 
Digitized Newspaper Collections
Nebraska Newspapers: Digitizing Nebraska's History
http://nebnewspapers.unl.edu/
 
Microfilmed Newspaper Collections
University of Nebraska-Lincoln
Lincoln, NE 68588-4100
402-472-3939
http://nebnewspapers.unl.edu/
 
Nebraska State Historical Society
P.O. Box 82554
Lincoln, NE 68501
402-471-4785
http://www.nebraskahistory.org/lib-arch/whadoin/newspapr.htm
 
Books
Diffendal, Anne P., A Guide to the Newspaper Collection of the State Archives. Nebraska State Historical Society, 1977.









Nevada


Libraries with Newspaper Indexes
None at this time.
 
Genealogy Societies with Newspaper Indexes
None at this time.
 
Digitized Newspaper Collections
Cooperative Libraries Automated Network Digital Collections
http://206.194.194.211:2011/cdm/
 
Microfilmed Newspaper Collections
University of Nevada - Reno
Reno, NV 89557-0044
775-784-6500 x317
http://knowledgecenter.unr.edu/help/web_reference/guides/newsmicro/Default.aspx









New Hampshire


Libraries with Newspaper Indexes
Belknap County
Laconia Historical & Museum Society Obit Index
1840-1925
603-527-1278 lhmslpl@metrocast.net 
http://www.freewebs.com/laconiaancestrytoo/obituaries.htm
 
Strafford County
Dover Public Library Obituary Index
Foster's Daily Democrat, 1920-present
603-516-6050 $10 per obit
http://www.dover.lib.nh.us/obituary/obituaryindex.htm
 
Strafford County
Rochester Public Library Newspaper Index
1884-2013 Covers the towns of Barrington, Farmington, Gonic, Milton, New Durham and Rochester
603-332-1428
http://www.rpl.lib.nh.us/reference/newsindex.htm
 
Genealogy Societies with Newspaper Indexes
None at this time.
 
Digitized Newspaper Collections
New Hampshire newspapers that have been digitized are available on Google News Archive, Ancestry, GenealogyBank, Newspaper Archive, and Newspapers.com.
 
Microfilmed Newspaper Collections
New Hampshire State Library
20 Park St.
Concord, NH 03301
603-271-2310
http://www.nh.gov/nhsl/nhais/newspaper_project.html
 
Books
Hammond, Otis G., Notices from the New Hampshire Gazette, 1765-1800 (Lambertville, NJ: Hunterdon House, 1970) 
 
Evans, Helen F., Index of References to American Women in Colonial Newspapers Through 1800. 3 vols. (Bedford, NH: H.F. Evans, 1995)









New Jersey


Libraries with Newspaper Indexes
Burlington County Library Newspaper Index
http://www.bcls.lib.nj.us/newspapers/nni/
 
Union County
Plainfield Public Library Courier News Obituary Index
Go to Departments, then Local History
http://www.plainfieldlibrary.info
 
Warren County Library Local History Indexes
Go to Research, then Genealogy
http://www1.youseemore.com/warrencl/
 
Genealogy Societies with Newspaper Indexes
Hudson County Genealogical Society Indexes
http://www.hudsoncountynjgenealogy.org/
 
Mercer County
Trenton Historical Society Indexes
http://www.trentonhistory.org/
 
Hunterdon County Historical Society
Hunterdon Gazette Project
Index & typed transcriptions on a set of CDs
1825-1866
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~njhunter/hchs.htm#gazette
 
Digitized Newspaper Collections
New Jersey newspapers that have been digitized are available on Google News Archive, GenealogyBank, Newspaper Archive, and Newspapers.com.
 
Atlantic County Library System
Digitized Newspaper Collections
http://atlanticlibrary.org/digitized_newspaper_collections
 
Middlesex County
Sadie Pope Dowdell Public Library, South Amboy
South Amboy Citizen, 1910-2000
http://dowdell.org/citizen/citizen.html
South Amboy-Sayreville Times, 1991-present
http://dowdell.org/sast.html
 
Microfilmed Newspaper Collections
New Jersey Division of Archives and Records Management
P.O. Box 307
Trenton, NJ 08625-0307
609-984-3296
http://www.state.nj.us/state/archives/
 
Newark Public Library
5 Washington St.
Newark, NJ 07101
973-733-7784
http://www.npl.org/Pages/Collections/njicnews1.html









New Mexico


Libraries with Newspaper Indexes
Albuquerque-Bernalillo County Library
Index of names, 1888-1927 (not online)
505-768-5170 library@cabq.gov 
http://abclibrary.org/newspaper_research
 
Genealogy Societies with Newspaper Indexes
Curry County Obituary Index
$10 per obituary
http://www.usgwarchives.net/nm/curry/currobit.htm
 
Grant County Obituary Index
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~nma/
 
Santa Fe County
Fray Angelico Chavez History Library
Palace of the Governors Obituary Database
http://www.palaceofthegovernors.org/obitfiles/
 
Sierra County Genealogical Society Obituaries
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~nmscgs2/
 
Taos County Genealogical Society Newspaper Indexes
http://nmahgp.genealogyvillage.com/taos/
 
Digitized Newspaper Collections
New Mexico Digital Collections
Index to newspapers (including those on microfilm)
http://econtent.unm.edu/cdm/landingpage/collection/dignews
 
Palace of the Governors Obituary Database
Index to obituaries, 1870's to 2005
http://www.palaceofthegovernors.org/obitfiles/
 
Microfilmed Newspaper Collections
University of New Mexico
Zimmerman Library
New Mexico Newspapers Database
Albuquerque, NJ 87131 505-277-8907
http://econtent.unm.edu/cdm/landingpage/collection/nmnews
 
New Mexico State Library
1209 Camino Carlos Rey
Santa Fe, NJ 87507
505-476-9700
http://www.nmstatelibrary.org/research-and-collections/collections/newspaper-collection
 
Books
Grove, Pearce S. New Mexico Newspapers: A Comprehensive Guide. Albuquerque: University of New Mexico Press, 1975.
 
Stratton, Porter A. The Territorial Press of New Mexico, 1834-1912. Albuquerque: University of New Mexico Press, 1969.









New York


Libraries with Newspaper Indexes
Albany County
Guilderland Public Library Newspaper Indexes
1884-2008 localhistory@guilpl.org 
http://nyshistoricnewspapers.org/guilpl/
 
Chemung County Library District Obituary Index
1898-1960 $10 per copy
PDF form online to send in
http://ccld.lib.ny.us/genealogy.htm
 
Buffalo & Erie County Public Library Obituary Index
716-858-8900
http://www.buffalolib.org/content/grosvenor/guides-publications
 
Genesee County
Richmond Memorial Library Newspaper Page
Links to several indexes of local newspapers
585-343-9550
http://www.batavialibrary.org/localhistory/newspapers.php
 
Herkimer County
Frank J. Basloe Library
Herkimer Evening Telegram Obituary Index, 1924-present
$5 for up to 5 obituaries Herkimer@midyork.org
http://www.midyorklib.org/herkimer/?page_id=611
 
Livingston County
Dansville Public Library Obituary Index
585-335-6720
http://www.dansvillelibrary.org/obitphp/obindex.php
 
Monroe County Library System
Rochester Newspaper Index, 1818-1897
Index for 1898-1903 on card file (not online)
$15 per article; form online 585-428-8370
http://www3.libraryweb.org/lh.aspx?id=963
 
Oneida County
Waterville Public Library Obituary Index, 1856-1895
315-841-4651
http://www.watervillepl.org/waterville-times-obituary-index/
 
Onondaga County Public Library Genealogy Database
315-435-1900
http://www.onlib.org/web/lh/databases_list.htm
 
Orange County
Goshen Public Library & Historical Society
845-294-6606  library@goshenpubliclibrary.org
Searchable index to Independent Republican, 1820-
http://evanced.info/goshen/obit/obitview.asp
 
Suffolk County
Center Moriches Public Library Obituary Indexes
631-878-0940
http://centermoricheslibrary.org/local%20papers.htm
 
Suffolk County Libraries Newspaper Page
Searchable images of 15 county newspapers, 1822-1990
http://www.live-brary.com/historic-newspapers
 
Tompkins County Public Library Obituary Index
607-272-4557
http://tcpl.org/local-history.php
 
Westchester County
Field Library Obituary Index
http://www.peekskill.org/obituary-index
 
Genealogy Societies with Newspaper Indexes
Delaware County Historical Society Local History Indexes
http://www.dcnyhistory.org/index2.html
 
Erie County
Buffalo New York Deaths
http://www.buffalonydeaths.com/
 
Kings County
Brooklyn Daily Eagle, 1841-1955
http://bklyn.newspapers.com/
 
Onondaga County
Skaneateles Historical Society Newspaper Index
http://www.skaneateleshistoricalsociety.org/archives-directory.html
 
Rensselaer County
Troy Irish Genealogy Society Newspaper Index
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~nytigs/
 
Schenectady Digital History Archive Obituary Index
http://www.schenectadyhistory.org/vitalrecords
 
Schuyler County Newspaper Index
Marriage Records from Havana Newspapers, 1840s-
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~nyschuyl/MonMarr.html
Death Records from the Havana Republican, 1840s-1870s
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~nyschuyl/mondth2.html
 
Steuben County Obituary Index
http://www.steubencony.org/
 
Yates County History Center Newspaper Index, 1899-1939
http://www.yatespast.com/genealogy/genealogy.html
 
Digitized Newspaper Collections
Old Fulton New York Postcards
http://fultonhistory.com/Fulton.html
(images of over 500 titles)
 
Hudson River Valley Heritage Historical Newspapers
http://news.hrvh.org/
 
Nassau County Libraries Historic Newspaper Collections
http://cdm16373.contentdm.oclc.org/ui/custom/default/collection/default/resources/custompages/home/linews.php
 
Northern New York Historical Newspapers 1811-2010
http://nyshistoricnewspapers.org/
Covers 20 counties in Northern NY: Albany, Chautauqua, Clinton, Delaware, Erie, Essex, Franklin, Jefferson, Lewis, Monroe, Niagara, Ontario, Orleans, Oswego, Putnam, Saint Lawrence, Suffolk, Warren, and Wayne.
 
Rockland County
New City Library Digital Archives
Rockland County Messenger, 1847-1898
http://www.localarchives.org/newcitylibrary/
 
Suffolk Historic Newspapers
http://www.live-brary.com/historic-newspapers
 
New York Heritage Digital Collections:
http://www.newyorkheritage.org/newspapers/
 
Microfilmed Newspaper Collections
New York State Library
Cultural Education Center, 6th Floor
Empire State Plaza
Albany, NY 12230
518-474-7491
Searchable by city, county, and title
Available for interlibrary loan
Available for purchase
http://www.nysl.nysed.gov/nysnp/
 
New York Public Library
Humanities and Social Science Library
http://www.nypl.org/node/5623
 
Books
Bowman, Fred Q., 8000 More Vital Records of Eastern New York State, 1804-1850. Rhinebeck, NY: Kinship Books, 1991.
 
Bowman, Fred Q., 7000 Hudson-Mohawk Valley Vital Records, 1808-1850. Baltimore: Genealogical Pub. Co., 1997.
 
Bowman, Fred Q. 10,000 Vital Records of Central New York, 1813-1850. Baltimore: Genealogical Pub. Co., 1986.
 
Bowman, Fred Q. 10,000 Vital Records of Eastern New York, 1777—1834. Baltimore: Genealogical Pub. Co., 1987.
 
Bowman, Fred Q., 10,000 Vital Records of Western New York, 1809-1850. Baltimore: Genealogical Pub. Co., 1985.
 
Gavit, Joseph, American Deaths and Marriages, 1784-1829. Albany, NY: New York State Library, 1977.
 
Scott, Kenneth, Genealogical Data From Colonial New York Newspapers: A Consolidation from the New York Genealogical and Biographical Record. Baltimore: Genealogical Pub. Co., 1977.
 
Scott, Kenneth, Genealogical Data from the New York Post-Boy, 1743-1773. Washington DC: National Genealogical Society, 1980.









North Carolina


Libraries with Newspaper Indexes
Catawba County
Patrick Beaver Memorial Library
Index to Hickory Daily Record, 1915-1989
(not online) 828-304-0500 x7283
http://www.hickorync.gov/department/
 
Craven County
New Bern-Craven County Public Library Obituary Index
http://newbern.cpclib.org/research/obituary.html
 
Davidson County Public Library Local History Index
http://www.co.davidson.nc.us/library/FamilyandDavidsonCountyHistory.aspx
 
Guilford County
Greensboro Public Library Newspaper Index
http://www.greensboro-nc.gov/index.aspx?page=2924
 
Harnett County Public Library Obituary Index
http://www.harnett.org/library/cemetery.htm
 
Mecklenburg County
Charlotte Mecklenburg Library
Genealogy Research Indexes
http://www.cmstory.org/people/default.asp
 
Randolph County Public Library Obituary Index
http://randolphlibrary.libguides.com/
 
Union County Public Library Newspaper Indexes
http://www.union.lib.nc.us/genealogy_obit.asp
 
Wake County
North Carolina State Library
Wake County & Raleigh Newspaper Indexes, 1799-1893
http://statelibrary.ncdcr.gov/digital/ncfamilyrecords/
 
Wayne County Public Library Obituary Abstracts
http://www.waynegov.com/domain/143
 
Wake Forest University
Z. Smith Reynolds Library
North Carolina Baptist Historical Collection
http://zsr.wfu.edu/special/collections/nc-baptist-historical-collection/
 
Genealogy Societies with Newspaper Indexes
NC People in the Papers: Historical News
Extracts and/or summaries, 1799-1960s
http://www.ncgenweb-data.com/ncnews/searchfrm.php
 
Alamance County Obits
Transcribed from newspapers; years vary
http://ncgenweb.us/nc/alamance/records-data/
 
Old Buncombe County Genealogical Society Obituary Index
Copies are $4 each
http://www.obcgs.com/research-resources/
 
Columbus County Newspaper Indexes
http://columbusco.org/
 
Johnston County Heritage Center
Newspaper Obituaries, 1801-present
http://www.johnstonnc.com/
 
Macon County Obituary Index
http://www.carter-cousins.org/vickie/obits/
 
Madison County Genealogical Society Obituary Index
http://www.echoesofmadison.com/obits.htm
 
New Hanover County Newspapers
Excerpts, 1765-
http://www.ncgenweb.us/newhanover/news.html
 
Digitized Newspaper Collections
North Carolina Newspaper Digitization Project
http://www.history.ncdcr.gov/SHRAB/ar/exhibits/newspaper/index.html
 
North Carolina Newspapers
Community newspapers, listed by title and shown on a map
http://www.digitalnc.org/collections/newspapers/
 
Digital Archives of Dare County Library
1935-1945, 1951-2009
http://www.daredigitalheritage.org/
 
Microfilmed Newspaper Collections
State Library of North Carolina
4644 Mail Service Center
Raleigh, NC 27699-4644
919-807-7449
Available for interlibrary loan
http://statelibrary.ncdcr.gov/ghl/resources/newspapers.html
 
Books
Jones, Roger C., comp., Guide to North Carolina Newspapers on Microfilm: Titles Available from the Division of Archives and History. 6th ed. Raleigh, NC: Division of Archives and History, 1984.
 
Jones, H.G. and Julius H. Avant, Union List of North Carolina Newspapers, 1751-1900. Raleigh, NC: State Dept. of Archives and History, 1963.
 
Broughton, Carrie L., Marriage and Death Notices in Raleigh Register and North Carolina State Gazette, 1799-1855. Baltimore: Genealogical Publishing Co., 1949.
 
Broughton, Carrie L., Marriage and Death Notices in Raleigh Register, North Carolina State Gazette, Daily Sentinel, Raleigh Observer and News and Observer. 4 vol. Raleigh: North Carolina State Library, 1951.
 
Fouts, Raymond Parker, Abstracts from the North Carolina Gazette of New Bern, North Carolina. 2 vol. , Cocoa, Florida: GenRec Books, 1983.
 
Fuller, Marian Camper. Obituaries and Marriage Notices from the Carolina Watchman, 1832-1890: An Index. Greenville, SC: A Press, 1981.
 
Neal, Lois Smathers, Abstracts of Vital Records from Raleigh, North Carolina Newspapers, 1799-1839. 3 vol. Spartanburg, SC: Reprint Co., 1979-1995.









North Dakota


Libraries with Newspaper Indexes
Cass County
North Dakota State University Archives
Fargo Forum Obituary Index, 1892-1909
http://library.ndsu.edu/db/obituary/
 
Divide County Library Obituary Indexes
Printed volumes of indexes to several papers,
1903-1994 (not online)
701-965-6305
 
Genealogy Societies with Newspaper Indexes
Billings County Newspaper Extracts
The Beach Advance, 1908-1920
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~ndbillin/news.htm
 
Slope County Newspaper Extracts
Various papers, 1907-1933
http://www.midrivers.com/~whtmule/genweb/slope/slopenews.htm
 
Digitized Newspaper Collections
North Dakota newspapers that have been digitized are available on Chronicling America, Google News Archive, Ancestry, GenealogyBank, Newspaper Archive, and Newspapers.com.
 
Microfilmed Newspaper Collections
State Historical Society of North Dakota
612 East Blvd.
Bismarck, ND 58505-0830
701- 328-2090
Listing by county or town
Available for interlibrary loan
Available for purchase
http://history.nd.gov/archives/whatnewspapers.html
 
North Dakota State University
1340 Administration Ave.
Fargo, ND 58102
701-231-8914
http://library.ndsu.edu/ndsuarchives/newspapers









Ohio


Libraries with Newspaper Indexes
Rutherford B. Hayes Presidential Center
Over 2.8 million obituaries from several (not all) Ohio counties
Copies can be ordered for a fee.
800-998-7737
http://index.rbhayes.org/hayes/index/
 
Allen County
Lima Public Library Obituary Index
1930s to present (not online) 419-228-5113
http://www.limalibrary.com/
 
Ashland, Coshocton, Holmes and Stark Counties
Northeast Online Regional Library System
Obituary Database
http://www.ohiofamilysearch.org/
 
Athens County District Library
Obituary Index, 1900-1934, 1940-1949, 1970-1998
(not online) 740-753-2118
http://www.myacpl.org/about/localhistory
 
Clark County Public Library
Newspaper Index, mid-1970s to 2008
Fill out research request form; cost is $2.50 each
http://contentdm.ccpl.lib.oh.us/cdm/landingpage/collection/newspapers
 
Columbiana County
Salem Public Library Obituary Index, 1953-2012
http://www.salem.lib.oh.us/
 
Cuyahoga County
Cleveland Public Library Necrology File
http://www.cpl.org/
 
Cuyahoga County
Cleveland News Index, 1983-present
http://www-catalog.cpl.org/CLENIX
 
Fayette County
Carnegie Public Library Searchable Indexes
http://www.cplwcho.org/content/searchable-indexes
 
Franklin County
Columbus Metropolitan Library Obituary Index
http://www.columbuslibrary.org/research/local-history-genealogy
 
Findlay-Hancock County Public Library
Obituary Index
http://www.findlaylibrary.org/content/hancock-county-obituary-index
 
Hamilton County
Public Library of Cincinnati and Hamilton County
Index to Local Newspaper Articles
http://classic.cincinnatilibrary.org:81/search/X
 
Huron County Community Library
Willard Area Births & Obituaries
http://www.huroncolib.org/node/79
 
Jefferson, Noble, Monroe, Perry, Harrison, Washington Counties
Caldwell Public Library
Southeastern Ohio Digital Shoebox
http://www.digitalshoebox.org/
 
Lake County
Morley Library Local History Collection
Index to Painesville Telegraph, 1822-1986
http://www.morleylibrary.org/genealogy_obituaries.htm
 
Lucas County
Toledo-Lucas County Public Library
Blade Obituary Index
http://www.toledolibrary.org/obits/
 
Marion Public Library Obituary Database
1984-present; over 20,000 obituaries
http://obits.marion.lib.oh.us/content/obituary-database
 
Medina County District Library
Obituaries, Death Notices, Probate Notices from
The Medina County Sentinel, 1859 to present
No charge for county residents; others pay $5 per request.
http://tinyurl.com/k2cgt6t
 
Montgomery County
Dayton Public Library Obituary Index
1850-1890, 1903-1913, 1920-1931, 1951-1957, 1985-present
http://www.daytonmetrolibrary.org/hobits-search
 
Preble County District Library Obituary Index
http://www.pcdl.lib.oh.us/marriage/search.cfm
 
Richland County
Mansfield/Richland County Public Library
Newspaper Citation Database
1828-1899, 1900-1903, 1953-present
http://search.mrcpl.org:84/
 
Stark County
Rodman Public Library Local History Index
http://www.rodmanlibrary.com/genealogy
 
Summit County
Akron-Summit County Public Library Genealogy Indexes
Akron Beacon Journal, 1937-
http://sc.akronlibrary.org/genealogy/
 
Summit County
Barberton Public Library Obituary Indexes
Barberton newspapers, 1892-1929, 1913-1922, 1928-present
http://www.barbertonlibrary.org/Local_History_Room/
 
Summit County
Stow Monroe Falls Public Library
http://www.smfpl.org/obituaries/search
 
Trumbull County
Warren-Trumbull County Public Library
Warren Tribune Chronicle Obituary Index, 1900-1949
http://www.wtcpl.org/
 
Wayne County Public Library Obituary Index
http://wcpl.info/LibraryConnection/Genealogy.aspx
 
Williams County Public Library Obituary Index
http://obits.mywcpl.org/
 
Wood County District Public Library Obituary Index
http://ul.bgsu.edu/cgi-bin/obxpub.cgi
and
http://wcdpl.org/Obituaries
 
Genealogy Societies with Newspaper Indexes
Clark County Obituary Index
Transcribed obits from newspapers, 1833-2005
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~ohclark/obituary/qryindex.htm
 
Crawford County Genealogical Society
Crawford County Obituaries, 1860-2004
Browsing collection on FamilySearch
Newspaper clippings arranged alphabetically on card files, with newspaper citations
https://familysearch.org/search/collection/1384728
 
Franklin County
Worthington Memory News Index
http://www.worthingtonmemory.org/
 
Gallia County Genealogical Society Obituary Index
http://www.galliagenealogy.org/resources.htm
 
Henry County Genealogical Society Obituary Index
http://www.henrycountyohiogenealogy.org/databases.htm
 
Licking County
Granville Times Obituaries, 1880-1941
http://www.kinfinder.com/obits/GTObits.htm
 
Meigs County Obituaries
Transcribed from newspapers, 1855-1921
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~ohmeigs/news_by_year/obits.html
 
Monroe County Historical Society Obituary Search
http://www.co.monroe.mi.us/egov/searchobituaries.aspx
 
Montgomery County Genealogical Society
Obituaries & Death Notices from Dayton Newspapers
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~ohmontgs/
 
Muskingum County Obituaries
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~ohmuskin/
 
Pickaway County Historical & Genealogical Library
Obituary Index, 1816-2012 (not online)
Make requests by mail; 25 cents per copy
740-474-9144
http://www.pchgl.org/OurLibraryCollections/tabid/87/Default.aspx
 
Richland County
Ohio Genealogical Society Obituary Index
$2 first obit, $1 for each additional
http://ogs.org/research/search_obitindex.php
 
Ross County Obituaries
Over 900 transcribed obituaries
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~ohross/obituaries.htm
 
Tuscarawas County Genealogical Society
Obituary Index, 1954-1967, 2003-2011
740-922-0531
http://www.tuscogene.com/obituary_index.htm
 
Warren County Genealogical Society
Indexed alphabetically by year & by decade
Mail-order photocopy request form on website;
$1 per page/$5 minimum
http://www.co.warren.oh.us/genealogy/obitsmain.htm
 
Washington County Genealogical Society
Marietta Daily Leader, 1896-1901
Other obituaries 1987-1999
http://www.washogs.org/
 
Cuyahoga County
Jewish Genealogy Society of Cleveland Obituary Index
http://clevelandjgs.org/
 
Digitized Newspaper Collections
Ohio Historical Society,
The African-American Experience in Ohio
http://dbs.ohiohistory.org/africanam/nwspaper/index.cfm
Selected articles and illustrations
 
Ohio Memory Project
http://www.ohiohistoryhost.org/ohiomemory/odnp
 
Lorain County
Oberlin College, Index to Lorain County Newspapers
http://www.oberlin.edu/cgi-bin/cgiwrap/library/ref/index.php?db=newsindex
 
Five Colleges of Ohio
http://dcollections.oberlin.edu./cdm/landingpage/collection/p15963coll9
 
Microfilmed Newspaper Collections
Ohio Historical Society Microfilm Collections
800 E. 17th Ave.
Columbus, OH 43211
614-297-2530
http://dbs.ohiohistory.org/newspaper/home.cfm
Holdings from 1793-1996, both bound & microfilm
Available for interlibrary loan (fee for postage)
Available for purchase
Searchable by newspaper title, city or county
 
Ohio State University Library
1858 Neil Avenue Mall
Columbus, OH 43210-1286
614-292-6785
http://library.osu.edu/find/subjects/newspapers/
 
See Also:
Ohio Historical Society Newspaper Indexes
Microform and Bound Indexes, by County
http://ww2.ohiohistory.org/resource/archlib/newsindx.html
 
Books
Green, Karen Mauer, Pioneer Ohio Newspapers, 1793-1810. Galveston, TX: The Frontier Press, 1986.
 
Green, Karen Mauer, Pioneer Ohio Newspapers, 1802-1818. Galveston, TX: The Frontier Press, 1988.
 
Gutgesell, Stephen, ed. Guide to Ohio Newspapers, 1793-1973. Columbus OH: Ohio Historical Society, 1974.









Oklahoma


Libraries with Newspaper Indexes
Oklahoma County
University of Central Oklahoma Chambers Library
Edmond Obituary Index
http://library.uco.edu/archives/obituary/
 
Tulsa City-County Library Death Notice Index
http://www.tulsalibrary.org/deathnotice/
 
Genealogy Societies with Newspaper Indexes
Choctaw County Obit & Death Notice Archive
Over 4000 transcribed obits
http://okgenweb.org/~okchocta/obits.htm
 
Coal County Obituary Index, 1893-2005
http://genroots.net/OK/CoalCounty/
 
Kay County
Pioneer Genealogical Society Online Records
http://www.kaycounty.info/PGS/pgs_research.htm
 
Latimer County Genealogical Society
Obituary Index, 1904-1980, 1981-2003
Request from Latimer County Public Library
918-465-3751 lclib@oklibrary.net
http://www.okgenweb.org/~oklatime/obits/obitA.htm
 
LeFlore County Obituaries
Several indexes
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~okleflor/obituaries.htm
 
Muskogee County Genealogical Society Obituary Index
http://www.okgenweb.org/~mcgs/
 
Oklahoma County
Oklahoma Historical Society Obituary Index
http://www.okhistory.org/research/genealogy
 
Ottawa County Obituaries
Scanned copies of newspaper articles with date, mostly from Miami News Record microfilm
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~okottawa/obituaries.html
 
Pushmataha County Obituary Index
1954-2002 Index Only
http://www.usgwarchives.net/ok/pushmataha/obituary.html
 
Digitized Newspaper Collections
The Gateway to Oklahoma History, 1840s to 1920s
http://gateway.okhistory.org/
 
Adair, Cherokee, Delaware, McIntosh, Muskogee, & Sequoyah counties
Newspaper Archives of Eastern Oklahoma Library District
Over 100 newspapers, 1840-2012
http://eodls.newspaperarchive.com/
 
Pittsburg County
McAlester Newspaper Digitization Project
http://mcalesterlibrary.net/mcalesternews
 
Microfilmed Newspaper Collections
Oklahoma Historical Society
800 Nazih Zuhdi Drive
Oklahoma City, OK 73105
405-521-2491
Titles date from 1819 to present
Not available for interlibrary loan
Available for purchase
http://www.okhistory.org/research/newspapers









Oregon


Libraries with Newspaper Indexes
Clackamas County
Wilsonville Public Library Northwest Heritage Index
http://www.wilsonvillelibrary.org/158/Northwest-Heritage-Index
 
Columbia County
Rainier City Library Obituary Index
1905-1998, most from the Rainier Review
503-556-7301
http://www.oregongenealogy.com/columbia/obituary-index.htm
 
Lane & Multnomah County
University of Oregon Newspaper Index Search
Oregonian, 1852-1987, Daily Emerald, 1900-1979,
Register-Guard, 1963-2004
http://library.uoregon.edu/dc/newspaper/index
 
Genealogy Societies with Newspaper Indexes
Benton County Genealogical Society Newspaper Project
1865-1925
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~orbentgs/
 
Jackson County
Rogue Valley Genealogical Society Obituary Index
http://www.rvgslibrary.org/
 
Tillamook County Pioneer Museum Library Obituary Index
1955-2012
http://www.tcpm.org/library.htm
 
Genealogical Forum of Oregon Obituary Index
http://www.gfo.org/obits/
 
Digitized Newspaper Collections
Historic Oregon Newspapers
http://oregonnews.uoregon.edu/
 
Kimble Northwest History Database
80,000 newspaper clippings
http://content.libraries.wsu.edu/index.php/cdm/landingpage/collection/clipping
 
Oregon Newspapers Index
Eugene and Portland Papers, 1852-2004
http://library.uoregon.edu/govdocs/indexing/index.html
 
Oregon State Library, Oregon Index
Various papers, 1974-2004
http://library.state.or.us/home/orind/
 
Microfilmed Newspaper Collections
University of Oregon Libraries
1299 University of Oregon
Eugene, OR 97403-1299
541-346-1805
http://library.uoregon.edu/cmet/image_svcs/onp/index.html
List by county: http://library.uoregon.edu/govdocs/micro/titles.html
Available for interlibrary loan
 
Oregon Historical Society
1200 SW Park Ave.
Portland, OR 97205
503-222-1741
http://www.ohs.org/research/library/collections/









Pennsylvania


Libraries with Newspaper Indexes
Adams County Library System
Obituary Index
717-334-0163
http://www.adamslibrary.org/
 
Community Library of Allegheny Valley Obituary Indexes
http://alleghenyvalleylibrary.org/research-local-history/historic-records/
 
Blair County Libraries Obituary Search
$5 per photocopied page
http://blaircountylibraries.org/obit/
 
Butler County Library Genealogy Index
http://www.butlerlibrary.info/index.php/obituaryindex.html#!genealogy/coku
 
Centre County
PennState University Libraries
Centre Daily Times Obituary Index, 1937-2011
http://www.libraries.psu.edu/content/psul/nml/cdtindex.html
 
Erie County Public Library Obituary Listings, 1822-present
http://www.erielibrary.org/research-services/
 
Lancaster County
Lititz Public Library Genealogy Resources
http://www.lititzlibrary.org/lititz/
 
Lawrence County
New Castle Public Library
Marriage & Obituary Database
http://www.ncdlc.org/genealogy/
 
Lehigh County
Allentown Public Library Obituary Index, 1895-1983
$5 per obit, paid in advance; scanned copies available
http://www.allentownpl.org/obits.htm
 
James V. Brown Library Newspaper Index
Lycoming County, 1807-present
http://jvbrown.edu/genealogy/
 
Northampton County
Bethlehem Area Public Library Local History Index
1867-1917, 1950's forward
http://www.bapl.org/lochist/news/lhnews1.htm
 
Northampton County
Easton Area Public Library Local History Room
http://www.eastonpl.org/EAPLMarxRoomHome.html
 
Northumberland County
Mount Carmel Public Library Obituary Index
http://mountcarmelareapubliclibrary.com/genealogy
 
Pottsville Public Library Obituary Index
Schuylkill County
http://www.pottsvillelibrary.org/genie.htm#onlinecems
 
Westmoreland County
Adams Memorial Library Dead-a-Base
Index to Latrobe Bulletin, 1902-present
Copies cost $5 for up to 10 names per request
http://www.adamslib.org/catalogs/deadabase/
 
Genealogy Societies with Newspaper Indexes
Allegheny County Vital Statistics Indexes from Pittsburgh Newspapers
http://www.usgwarchives.net/pa/allegheny/death-index.htm
 
Bedford County Historical Society Obituary Index
http://www.bedfordpahistory.com/services.html
 
Berks County Obituary Index
http://berks.pa-roots.com/obits/index.html
 
Cambria County Obituary Index
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~pacblack/
 
Fayette County Genealogy Project
http://www.pagenweb.org/~fayette/
 
Greene County Obituary Index
1822-1958, 1980-1981
http://www.fordyce.org/genealogy/GCRecords/
 
Lancaster Mennonite Historical Society
Obituary Index
http://www.lmhs.org/Home/Research/Genealogy/
 
McKean County, Bradford Era Obituary Index
1935-1995
http://www.pa-roots.com/mckean/Obituaries/Obituaries.html
 
Somerset County
Johnstown Area Genealogical and Historical Society
1817-2006
http://www.pennhighlands.edu/library/Gensoc/genealogy.html
 
Somerset County Obituary Index
http://usgwarchives.net/pa/somerset/obits/
 
Westmoreland County
Baltzer Meyer Historical Society Obituary Index
http://baltzermeyer.pa-roots.com/Pages/obit_index.html
 
Eastern Pennsylvania Obituaries Database
Over 60,000 records
http://tinyurl.com/o57avne
 
Digitized Newspaper Collections
Pennsylvania Civil War Era Newspaper Collection
http://digitalnewspapers.libraries.psu.edu/Default/Skins/civilwar/Client.asp?skin=civilwar&AW=1403407204862&AppName=2
 
State Library of Pennsylvania Historic Newspapers
http://www.accesspadr.org/cdm/search/collection/sstlp-newsp
 
Delaware County Newspaper Archives
1876-1977
http://delawarecolib.newspaperarchive.com/
 
Huntingdon County Historic Newspapers
http://www.accesspadr.org/cdm/search/collection/ajuncnews
 
Lancaster County Digitization Project
http://www.lancastercountydigitizationproject.org/digital-collections.html
 
McKean County
Smethport Newspaper Archives
1833-1977
http://smethport.newspaperarchive.com/
 
Mercer County
Greenville Public Library Newspaper Archives
1869-1973
http://greenville.newspaperarchive.com/
 
Philadelphia Press (Index Only)
http://libwww.library.phila.gov/philapress/ppsearch.cfm
 
Tioga County
Wellsboro Newspaper Archives
1810-2011
http://greenfreelibrary.newspaperarchive.com/
 
Microfilmed Newspaper Collections
Pennsylvania State Library
607 South Drive
Harrisburg, PA 17120-0600
(717) 783-5968
Search the library catalog here:
https://vf-stlib.klnpa.org/vufind/
 
Penn State University Libraries
Pennsylvania Newspaper Project
201 Old Main
University Park, PA 16802
(814) 865-4700
https://secureapps.libraries.psu.edu/content/PaNP/PaNP/









Puerto Rico

Microfilmed Newspaper Collections
University of Puerto Rico
P.O. Box 23302
San Juan, Puerto Rico 00931-3302
(787) 764-0000 x3471 or 3463
http://biblioteca.uprrp.edu/cpr.htm
 
University of Florida
George A. Smathers Library
Latin American and Caribbean Collection
http://cms.uflib.ufl.edu/lac/Index.aspx









Rhode Island


Libraries with Newspaper Indexes
Kent County
West Warwick Public Library
Name Index, 1892-1895
http://wwlibrary.org/newsite/adult/tni.htm
 
Washington County
North Kingstown Free Library
Standard Times Index, 1888-2010
$1 per obit & $2 per order, maximum of 3
Mail in request to library
http://www.nklibrary.org/e-research/standard-times-index
 
Genealogy Societies with Newspaper Indexes
None at this time.
 
Digitized Newspaper Collections
Rhode Island newspapers that have been digitized are available on Google News Archive, Ancestry, GenealogyBank, Newspaper Archive and Newspapers.com.
 
Microfilmed Newspaper Collections
Rhode Island Historical Society Library
121 Hope St.
Providence, RI 02906
(401) 273-8107
http://www.rihs.org/
 
Newport Public Library
300 Spring St.
Newport, RI 02840
(401) 842-0841
http://www.newportlibraryri.org/npl/e-resources/
 
Providence Public Library
150 Empire St.
Providence, RI 02903
(401) 455-8000
http://www.provlib.org/rhode-island-collection









South Carolina


Libraries with Newspaper Indexes
Beaufort County Library Newspaper Obituary Index
1862-1984, 2007-present
http://www.beaufortcountylibrary.org/htdocs-sirsi/obit.htm
 
Colleton County Library
Press and Standard Newspaper Index 1873-present
http://pressandstandard.colletonlibrary.org/
 
Greenville County Library Obituary Index
1909-present
http://www.greenvillelibrary.org/index.php/research/
 
Greenwood County Library Obituary Index
1895-present
http://obits.greenwoodcountylibrary.org/
 
Richland County Library Obituary Index
1875 to present
http://www.richlandlibrary.com/look-it-up/resources/community-resources
 
Spartanburg County Public Libraries Obituary Indexes
1849-present
http://www.infodepot.org/zKroom/KRdeathinfo.asp
 
York County Library News and Obituary Index
Some newspapers as early as 1823
http://www.ychistory.org/NewsAndObituary.php
 
Wofford College Archives Obituary Search
The Southern Christian Advocate Index
http://www.wofford.edu/Library/archives/archiveobituary.aspx
 
Genealogy Societies with Newspaper Indexes
Dillon County History & Genealogy
http://sciway3.net/proctor/dillon/dillon_obits.html
 
Horry County Genealogical Society Obituary Database
1861-1914
http://www.hchsonline.org/obits/index.html
 
Kershaw County
Camden Archives and Museum Obituary Index
Click on "Archives and Collections"; Cost is $10
http://cityofcamden.org/archivesmuseum.aspx
 
Newberry County Newspaper Index
1878-1941 text file transcripts, arranged by year,
then alphabetically
http://genealogytrails.com/scar/newberry/observer/
 
Digitized Newspaper Collections
South Carolina Digital Library
http://www.scmemory.org/media-type/newspapers
 
Microfilmed Newspaper Collections
University of South Carolina
Columbia, SC 29208
803-777-3131
http://library.sc.edu/gov_docs/gdhisnews.html
 
South Carolina State Library Obituary Resources
1500 Senate St.
P.O. Box 11469
Columbia, SC 29211
803-794-8666
http://www.statelibrary.sc.gov/south-carolina-obituary-resources
 
Clemson University Libraries
Box 343001
Clemson, SC 29634-3001
864-656-3024
877- 886-2389 toll free
http://clemson.libguides.com/content.php?pid=149082&sid=1266410









South Dakota


Libraries with Newspaper Indexes
Lake County
Dakota State University Karl E. Mundt Library
Obituary Index for Madison Daily Leader
1930-present
http://www.departments.dsu.edu/library/obit/search.html
 
Genealogy Societies with Newspaper Indexes
Hand County Obits & Death Notices
http://tinyurl.com/kxethz8
 
Codington County
Watertown Genealogical Society
Obituary Index, Watertown Public Opinion, 2004-2014
http://obits.watlib.org/
 
Minnehaha County
Sioux Valley Genealogical Society
Sorted by surname and maiden name
https://siouxvalleygenealogicalsociety.org/
 
Pennington County
Rapid City Genealogy Society Obituary Index
http://www.rcgenealogy.com/obituaryindexes.html
 
Digitized Newspaper Collections
South Dakota newspapers that have been digitized are available on Google News Archive, Ancestry, GenealogyBank, Newspaper Archive and Newspapers.com.
 
Microfilmed Newspaper Collections
South Dakota State Historical Society
South Dakota State Archives
900 Governors Drive
Pierre, SD 57501-2217
605- 773-3804
http://history.sd.gov/forms/NewspaperArchive.aspx
Searchable by city, county, date or paper title









Tennessee


Libraries with Newspaper Indexes
Davidson County
Nashville Public Library Local History Indexes
http://www.library.nashville.org/localhistory/his_lochisindexes.asp
 
Davidson County
Tennessee State Library and Archives
Death Notices in Nashville Newspapers, 1855-1907
http://www.tennessee.gov/tsla/history/vital/nd01.htm
 
Hamilton County
Chattanooga Public Library Obituary Index, 1897-2003
http://chattlibrary.org/local-history
 
Knox County Public Library Obituary Database
http://engagedpatrons.org/database/KnoxObits/index.cfm
 
Montgomery County Archives Obituary Search
1995-2009
http://www.mcgtn.org/archives/obituaries
 
Clarksville-Montgomery County Public Library
Obituary Index
http://www.mcgtn.org/library/genealogy/death-notices
 
University of Memphis Obituary Index
Shelby County, 1843-1900 (no papers for 1850)
No copy requests from individuals; only from libraries through interlibrary loan
https://umdrive.memphis.edu/mckibben/www/obituaries.html
 
Williamson County Public Library Obituary Database
51,000 obituaries
http://library2.williamson-tn.org/genealogy/obituaries/
 
Genealogy Societies with Newspaper Indexes
Bedford County Obituary Index
Abstracts from Shelbyville Gazette and Times-Gazette,
1928-1946
http://tngenweb.org/bedford/Obituaries/Obituary_Index.htm
 
Benton County Genealogical Society
4 volumes of death notices, 1876-1920 (not online)
available for purchase
http://tngenweb.org/benton/gensoc.html
 
Blount County Obituary Index
1855-1960
http://tngenweb.org/blount/births-marriages-deaths
 
Hamilton County Genealogical Society
Obituary Index
http://hctgs.org/
 
Lincoln County Obituary Indexes
Deaths from the Fayetteville Observer, 1850-1874
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~tnlincol/obits/obits.htm
Index to Obituaries, 1895-1919
http://usgwarchives.net/tn/lincoln/obits.html
 
Madison County Obituaries
1824-1935 Deaths in Jackson, TN newspapers
Listed under "Deaths", halfway down page
http://tngenweb.org/madison/records-data/
 
Monroe County Obituary Index
Madisonville Democrat, 1890-1969
http://tngenweb.org/monroe/obitindex.htm
Obituary Index, 1993-2012
http://www.tngennet.org/monroe/monobit/monobit.htm
 
Putnam County
Cookeville City Cemetery Obituaries
PDF; over 1900 pages of transcribed obits; includes photos
http://tngenweb.org/putnam/CookevilleCityCemObits.html
 
Roane County Heritage
Marriages and Births, 1900-1906
http://www.roanetnheritage.com/research/np0006.htm
 
Stewart County
Abstracts of Reported Deaths from the Nashville Christian Advocate, 1839-1919
http://tngenweb.org/stewart/ncadvocate.htm
Name Index for Stewart County in Newspapers, 1804-1875
29 page PDF, name and date only (listed under Newspapers)
http://tngenweb.org/stewart/researc3.htm
 
Tipton County
Covington Leader Obituary Index, 1917-1953
http://tinyurl.com/lmn5y2w
 
Washington County
Jonesboro Herald-Tribune Obituaries, 1869-1895
http://tngenweb.org/washington/records-data/jonesboro-herald-tribune-obituaries/
Obituary Project (no dates or papers noted)
Scanned copies of newspaper clippings
http://washingtoncountytnobituaries.wordpress.com/obituaries/
 
Weakley County Newspaper Extracts
Misc. Newspapers, 1837-1897
Dresden Enterprise, 1903-1907
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~tnweakle/newspaper_abstracts.htm
 
Digitized Newspaper Collections
Tennessee newspapers that have been digitized are available on Chronicling America, Google News Archive, GenealogyBank, Newspaper Archive and Newspapers.com.
 
Microfilmed Newspaper Collections
Tennessee State Library and Archives
403 7th Ave. North
Nashville, TN 37243
(615) 741-2764
http://www.tn.gov/tsla/history/newspapers/tn-paper.htm
Interlibrary loan only available to libraries in Tennessee
Available for purchase
 
Tennessee Newspaper Project
University of Tennessee Libraries
1015 Volunteer Blvd.
Knoxville, TN 37996-1000
(865) 974-4351
http://www.lib.utk.edu/tnp/mainsearch.php
Searchable database to locate newspapers in libraries around the state
 
Books
Creekmore, Pollyanna, Tennessee Newspaper Extracts and Abstracts. 2 vol., 1816-1839. Knoxville, TN: Clinchdale Press, 1995.
 
Eddlemon, Sherida K., Genealogical Abstracts of Tennessee Newspapers. 3 vol., 1791-1828. Bowie, MD: Heritage, 1988.
 
Smith, Jonathan K.T., Genealogical Abstracts from Reported Deaths, the Nashville Christian Advocate. 10 vol., 1847-1914. Jackson, TN: J.K.T. Smith, 1997-2003.









Texas


Libraries with Newspaper Indexes
Collin County
McKinney Memorial Public Library Newspaper Indexes
http://www3.mckinneytexas.org/index.aspx?NID=538
 
Comanche County Public Library
Early Comanche County Newspapers
March 1876-Nov. 1932
Transcribed articles from each weekly newspaper
http://comanchepubliclibrary.com/oldnews.htm
 
Fort Bend County Libraries Genealogy Database
http://www.fortbend.lib.tx.us/aboutus/gene_dept.html
 
Galveston County
Galveston and Texas History Center, Rosenberg Library
Newspaper Index, 1910-1992 (not online)
http://www.gthcenter.org/
 
Harris County
Sterling Municipal Library, Baytown
Baytown Briefs and Humble Bee Index, 1921-1997
http://www.baytownlibrary.org/research-categories/
 
Montgomery County Library Obituary Search
1911-1912, 1922, 1993-2001
http://www.countylibrary.org/genealogy.htm
 
Nueces County
Corpus Christi Public Library Obituary Index
1893-1903, 1950-present
http://lhdatabases.cclibraries.com/ObituaryIndex/home.php
 
San Saba County
Rylander Memorial Library Obituary index
Digital copy sent by email; donations appreciated
325-372-3079 jerlyn@centex.net 
http://www.sansabalibrary.org/genealogy
 
Tarrant County
Fort Worth Library Genealogy Archives
1966-1993
$6 research & handling charge; $.50 per page for photocopies
http://fortworthtexas.gov/library/info/default.aspx?id=24852
 
Tarrant County
Arlington Library Local Newspaper Transcriptions
http://www.arlingtonlibrary.org/genealogy-local-history
 
Victoria County
Victoria College and University of Houston/Victoria
File of Newspaper Clippings, 1901-1944
http://vrhc.uhv.edu/manuscripts/Weisiger/fimble.cfm
 
Genealogy Societies with Newspaper Indexes
Texas Obituaries, collected and posted by Steve Alvarez
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~txbhs/
 
Aransas County Genealogical Society
Obituary Index, 1992-2002
http://txaransas.eppygen.org/Obit/Obit_Ndx.htm
 
Burnet County Genealogical Society Obituary Index
1876-1910
https://sites.google.com/site/obitindex/
 
Caldwell County Genealogical Society
Research Center Obit
Names listed alphabetically; no dates
Email society with name & index number to get dates
ccghs@mail.org  830-875-9466
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~txcaldwe/obitndx.htm
 
Calhoun County Newspaper Database
Listed alphabetically, with birth (only goes through M)
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~txcalcgs/ccgs.html
 
Collin County
Plano Star Courier Name Indexes
http://www.plano.gov/908/Genealogy-Resources
 
Colorado County Obituaries
Transcribed, source-cited obits, some with photos
1880s to early 2000s
http://www.coloradocountyhistory.org/obits/index.htm
 
Dallas County Obituary Index, 1862-1950
http://tinyurl.com/p3s4jn4
 
Dickens County Cemetery & Obituary Index
Alphabetical list of names with birth & death dates, cemetery, transcribed & cited obituaries where available
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~txdicken/alpha.htm
 
Erath County Obituary Index
http://www.genealogyfinder.com/ErathCountyTexas/ErathObituaryIndex.html
 
Falls County Obituaries
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~txfalls/Obits/00-Obits.html
 
Fayette County Obituaries
Thousands of transcribed & cited obits, some with photos
http://www.fayettecountyhistory.org/obituaries_a.htm
 
Fredericksburg & Gillespie County Genealogy Society
Obituary Index, 1980-present
http://www.fbgtxgensoc.org/obit_index.shtml
 
Harris County
Humble Area Genealogical Society Obituary File
Kingwood Observer, 1993-2013
http://tinyurl.com/qelpuxm
 
Hopkins County Obituary Index
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~txhopkin/gen/resources/obituaries.html
 
Houston County Obituaries
Over 6000 obituaries, PDF scanned copies
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~txhousto/obituaries.htm
 
Hunt County Obituaries
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~txhunt/obit.htm
 
Jack County Obituaries
1960s-2013; scanned copies from scrapbook
http://www.jackcountytexas.info/Misc/1960-2013.htm
 
Lavaca County Obituaries
Thousands of obituaries, updated March 2014, some with photos
http://www.lavacacountyhistory.org/obituaries_a.htm
 
Matagorda County Obituary and Cemetery Index
Name index only (no dates), key to obituary books & sources $2 each with SASE to Genealogy Society
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~txmatago/obit_cem_index.htm
 
McCullock County Texas Obituary Index
Over 5000 obituaries
$.25 per copy and SASE
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~txmccull/obits.htm
 
Montague County Obituaries - 1930s
512-495-4532
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~txmontag/obitindex.html
 
Navarro County Obituary Index
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~txnavarr/obituaries/index.htm
 
Smith County Obituaries
http://www.usgwarchives.net/tx/smith/obits.html
 
Tarrant County
Obituaries & Death Notices in Arlington Newspapers
1901-1920
http://tinyurl.com/lq4cway
 
Terry County Obituaries
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~txterry/TerryObits.htm
 
Throckmorton County Obituaries
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~txthrock/Obituary.page.A.L.htm
 
Upshur County Obituaries
Over 2400, some scanned newspaper articles with no date; some transcribed
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~txupshur/ObitsIndex.html
 
Wise County Obituaries, 1910-2013
http://www.wisecountytexas.info/obituaries/old_obituaries.htm
 
Digitized Newspaper Collections
Camp County
Digital Archives of the Pittsburg-Camp County Public Library
1882-1892
http://pittsburgcamp.advantage-preservation.com/
 
Historic Mexican & Mexican American Press
http://www.library.arizona.edu/contentdm/mmap/index.html
(some El Paso newspapers in this collection)
 
Portal to Texas History
http://texashistory.unt.edu/search/?explore=True&fq=dc_type:text_newspaper
 
Microfilmed Newspaper Collections
University of Texas at Austin
Briscoe Center for American History
2313 Red River St.
Austin, TX 78705
(512) 495-4532
http://www.cah.utexas.edu/research/newspapers.php
 
Dallas Public Library
Texas/Dallas History & Archives
1515 Young St., 7th Floor
Dallas, TX 75201
(214) 670-1435
http://dallaslibrary2.org/texas/newspapers.htm
Listed alphabetically by city
 
Books
Sibley, Marilyn McAdams, Lone Stars and State Gazettes: Texas Newspapers Before the Civil War. College Station, TX: Texas A&M University Press, 1983.
 
Texas Newspapers, 1813-1939: A Union List. Houston: San Jacinto Museum of History Association, 1951.
 
Hendricks, Pearl, comp., Texas Obituaries: Death Notices Taken From Early Texas Newspapers, 1835-1890. 2 vol.









U.S. Virgin Islands

Microfilmed Newspaper Collections
Division of Libraries, Archives & Museums
1122 King St., Christiansted
St. Croix, VI 00820
(340) 773-5715
http://virginislandspace.org/Division%20of%20Libraries/libraryresources.html









Utah


Libraries with Newspaper Indexes
Brigham Young University, Harold B. Lee Library
Utah County Obituary Index
http://lib.byu.edu/collections/utah-county-obituary-index/
 
Genealogy Societies with Newspaper Indexes
None at this time.
 
Digitized Newspaper Collections
Utah Digital Newspapers
http://digitalnewspapers.org/
 
Logan's Historical Newspaper Collection
http://digitalcommons.usu.edu/usudiglib/14/
 
Northern Utah Digital Newspaper Collection
http://digitalcommons.usu.edu/usudiglib/16/
 
BYU Harold B. Lee Library Newspaper Collection
http://lib.byu.edu/collections/?q=tag:newspapers
 
Wasatch County
Index to Obituary Books, mid-1800s to 2003
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~utwasatc/Obits/
 
Weber County Newspapers
http://www.usgennet.org/usa/ut/county/weber/news/index.htm
 
Utah State University Digital Collections
http://tinyurl.com/kpucqoy
 
Pioneer Online Digital Utah
http://pioneer.utah.gov/digital/utah.html
 
Microfilmed Newspaper Collections
Harold B. Lee Library
Brigham Young University
P.O. Box 28800
Provo, UT 84602-6800
(801) 422-2927
http://files.lib.byu.edu/resource/newspapers/alphalist.htm









Vermont


Libraries with Newspaper Indexes
None at this time.
 
Genealogy Societies with Newspaper Indexes
Windsor County
Hartford Historical Society Obituary Archives
http://www.hartfordhistory.org/54801.html
 
Digitized Newspaper Collections
Chittendon County
Burlington Free Press / Rutland Herald Index
http://bfprhdindex.uvm.edu/
 
Microfilmed Newspaper Collections
University of Vermont Libraries
Bailey/Howe Library
Burlington, VT 05405
(802) 656-3131
http://researchguides.uvm.edu/vermont_newspapers_print
Available for interlibrary loan
 
Vermont Department of Libraries
Vermont Newspaper Project Catalog
http://vtnp.uvm.edu/
Browse by newspaper or repository









Virginia


Libraries with Newspaper Indexes
Accomac County
Eastern Shore Public Library
Marriage and Death Notices, 1881-1912
http://www.espl.org/genealogy-research
 
Alexandria Library Obituary Index, 1916-1946
http://www.alexandria.lib.va.us/
or
http://tinyurl.com/knbv9nl
 
Fairfax County Public Library Historical Newspaper Index
http://www.fairfaxcounty.gov/library/branches/vr/
 
Lynchburg
Jones Memorial Library Obituaries
Various years, as early as 1837
$10 per listing; copies are mailed
http://www.jmlibrary.org/collections/index.php
 
Newport News Public Library System
Daily Press Obituary Index, 1898-1988
$3 per obituary, paid in advance; no online payments
http://engagedpatrons.org/database/NNObits/index.cfm
 
Petersburg Public Library & Library of Virginia
Petersburg Newspaper Index, 1797-1877
http://tinyurl.com/qjpk3sh
 
Prince William County
Bull Run Regional Library Local Newspaper Index
http://www.pwcgov.org/government/dept/library/Pages/Local-Newspaper-Index-Search.aspx
 
Richmond
Henley Marriage & Obituary Index
Over 51,000 marriage and obituary notices, 1736-1982
http://tinyurl.com/q5tjr5r
 
Richmond Enquirer/Richmond visitor Index
1804-1860
http://tinyurl.com/oqpkpoq
 
Winchester, Frederick and Clark Counties
Handley Regional Library Local Newspaper Index
1896-1914
http://handleyregional.org/Handley/Archives/how_to_find_an_obituary.htm
 
Winchester Evening Star Obituaries, 1899-1909
https://familysearch.org/search/collection/1464685
 
Genealogy Societies with Newspaper Indexes
Floyd County
Floyd Press Obituaries and Death Notices, 1973-1999
http://genealogy.the-spanglers.net/
 
Fredericksburg Newspaper Database, 1787-1928
http://resources.umwhisp.org/fredburg.htm
 
Louisa County
Obituaries from The Central Virginian, 1929-2011
http://trevilians.com/cvobits/cvobit0.html
 
Pulaski County
Southwest Times Obituaries
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~vapulask/swtimes/indexobits.html
 
Pulaski County
New River Valley Obituary Collection
Over 4000 entries, transcribed from several papers
1895-2001
http://www.newrivernotes.com/family_obituaries_nrv_obit_collection.htm
 
Digitized Newspaper Collections
Colonial Williamsburg
Virginia Gazette
Indexed by main topic
http://research.history.org/DigitalLibrary/BrowseVG.cfm
 
Virginia Chronicle (Library of Virginia)
http://virginiachronicle.com/
 
Fairfax County Historical Newspaper Index
http://www.fairfaxcounty.gov/library/newsindex/
 
Fredericksburg Newspaper Index
http://fbgresearchindxes.umw.edu/newspapersearch.asp
 
The Geography of Slavery in Virginia
http://www2.vcdh.virginia.edu/gos/
 
Race & Place Newspapers
Charlottesville & Richmond
http://www2.vcdh.virginia.edu/afam/raceandplace/news_main.html
 
Prince William County Newspapers
http://eservice.pwcgov.org/library/digitalLibrary/index.htm
 
Digital Archives of the Pulaski County Library System
1893-2011
http://pclibs.newspaperarchive.com/
 
Microfilmed Newspaper Collections
Library of Virginia
800 East Broad St.
Richmond, VA 23219
(804) 692-3500
http://www.lva.virginia.gov/public/VNP/index.htm
Search by county, city or title keyword
 
University of Virginia Library
P.O. Box 400113
Charlottesville, VA 22904-4113
http://guides.lib.virginia.edu/content.php?pid=13447&sid=133179
 
Books
Cappon, Lester J., Virginia Newspapers, 1821-1935: A Bibliography with Historical Introduction and Notes. New York: Appleton Century, 1936.
 
Brigham, Clarence Saunders, History and Bibiliography of American Newspapers, 1690-1820. 2 vol. Worcester, Massachusetts: American Antiquarian Society, 1947, 1975.
 
Hall, Virginia Cornick, Abstracts of Marriage and Obituary Notices in Virginia Newspapers Before 1820. Salt Lake City, UT: Utah Genealogical Society, 1987.
 
Headley, Robert K. Genealogical Abstracts from 18th-Century Virginia Newspapers. Baltimore: Genealogical Publishing Co., 1999.
 
McIlwaine, H.R., Index to Obituary Notices in the Richmond Enquirer from May 9, 1804 through 1828, and the Richmond Whig from January 1824 to 1838. Baltimore: Genealogical Publishing Co., 1974.









Washington


Libraries with Newspaper Indexes
Clallam County
North Olympic Library System Obituary Index
1916-present
http://www.nols.org/articles-databases/obituary-search.html
 
Cowlitz County
Longview Public Library Obituaries, 1871-2013
http://longviewlibrary.org/genealogy/index.php
 
King County
Bellevue College East Side Journal Index, 1918-1975
http://www.bellevuecollege.edu/cpsha/esj/esj.htm
 
Pierce County
Tacoma Public Library Obituary Index, 1930s to present
http://www.tacomapubliclibrary.org/Page.aspx?nid=7
 
Spokane County
Spokane Public Library Obit & Birth Announcement Request
http://connect.spokanelibrary.org/vitals/
 
Genealogy Societies with Newspaper Indexes
Adams County Obituaries, 1898-1906, 1917-1968
http://www.usgwarchives.net/wa/adams/ritzobits.htm
 
Benton County
Tri-City Genealogical Society Obituary Index, 2000-2013
http://www.tricitygenealogicalsociety.org/wiki/
 
Clallam County Genealogical Society Obituary Directory
http://www.olypen.com/rfoss/obitdirectory.html
 
Eastern Washington Genealogical Society Obituary Database
http://www.ewgsi.org/areaDeaths.php
 
Jefferson County Genealogical Society
Obituary Index, 1871-present
http://wajcgs.org/online-databases/
 
King County
South King County Genealogical Society Obituary Indexes
http://tinyurl.com/kuycakd
 
Kitsap County
Puget Sound Genealogical Society Obituary Database
Kept in card files, available by request form
http://www.pusogensoc.org/
 
Lewis County Historical Museum
On site, huge collection of newspaper clippings
No cameras or scanners allowed; research requests are $15 per hour
360-748-0831
http://lewiscountymuseum.org/library
 
Lincoln County Obituaries
http://www.wagenweb.org/lincoln/obits.html
 
Skagit County
Skagit Valley Genealogical Society Obituary Name Index File
1891-1908
http://skagitvalleygenealogy.org/obituaries-2/
 
Snohomish and Island Counties
Sno-Isle Genealogical Society
Camwood Obituary Project
Covers Camano Island & Stanwood
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~wasigs/camwoodintro.htm
 
Snohomish County
Sno-Isle Genealogical Society
South Snohomish County Obituary Project
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~wasigs/SoSnoCoObits.htm
 
Stillaguamish Valley Death Index
http://stillygen.org/areaDeaths.php
 
Wenatchee Area Genealogical Society Obituary Index
1880-2009
http://www.wags-web.org/
 
Whatcom County Obituaries & Funeral Notices
http://wagenweb.org/whatcom/obitindex.htm
 
Digitized Newspaper Collections
Historic Newspapers Washington
http://www.sos.wa.gov/legacy/newspapers.aspx
 
Kimble Northwest History Database
http://content.libraries.wsu.edu/index.php/cdm/landingpage/collection/clipping
 
Cowlitz County Obituary Index
http://longviewlibrary.org/genealogy/index.php
 
Port Angeles Newspaper Obituary Index
http://www.nols.org/articles-databases/obituary-search.html
 
Olympian Index
http://cals.evergreen.edu:81/
 
Microfilmed Newspaper Collections
Washington State Library
6880 Capitol Blvd. S.E
Tumwater, WA
P.O. Box 42460
Olympia, WA 98504-2460
360-704-5200
Over 40,000 rolls from the territorial period in the 1850's to the present.
Available for interlibrary loan
http://www.sos.wa.gov/library/microfilm.aspx
Online catalog: http://www.sos.wa.gov/library/catalog.aspx
 
Books
Hamilton, Katryn S., Newspapers on Microfilm at the Washington State Library. Olympia, WA: Washington State Library, 1980.









West Virginia


Libraries with Newspaper Indexes
Cabell County Public Library Newspaper Index
1895-2011
http://library.booksite.com/6646/nl/?list=CNL6
 
Cabell & Kanawha Counties
Marshall University Obituaries Index, 1990-2005
http://www.marshall.edu/library/speccoll/digitalcoll.asp
 
Genealogy Societies with Newspaper Indexes
Jackson County Obituaries
1911-1915, 1922, 1941-1947; 1998-2006
http://www.wvgenweb.org/jackson/obits.html
 
Kanawha County Obituaries, no date range
http://tinyurl.com/l84ch39
 
Marshall County Obituaries, no date range
http://www.wvgenweb.org/marshall/obituaries.htm
 
Mason County Obituaries, no date range
http://tinyurl.com/pp74t97
 
Ohio County Obituaries, no date range
http://www.wvgenweb.org/ohio/wobits.htm
 
Pleasants County Obituaries, no date range
http://www.wvgenweb.org/pleasants/obit.htm
 
Raleigh County Obituaries, no date range
http://www.wvgenweb.org/raleigh/obits.htm
 
Digitized Newspaper Collections
West Virginia newspapers that have been digitized are available on Chronicling America, Google News Archive, Ancestry, GenealogyBank, Newspaper Archive and Newspapers.com.
 
Microfilmed Newspaper Collections
West Virginia University Libraries
1549 University Ave.
Morgantown, WV 26506
(304) 293-4040
http://tinyurl.com/ktnjvwg
 
West Virginia State Archives
1900 Kanawha Blvd. E.
Charleston, WV 25305
No email requests; research requests must be in writing
In-state research fee is $5; out-of-state fee is $15
Not available for interlibrary loan
http://tinyurl.com/86shvue
 
Books
Tetrick, Wills Guy, Obituaries from Newspapers of Northern West Virginia. 2 vol. Clarksburg, WV: W.G. Tetrick, 1933.









Wisconsin


Libraries with Newspaper Indexes
Dane County
Madison Public Library Area Obituaries, 1960-present
http://www.madisonpubliclibrary.org/obituaries
608-266-3650
 
Dunn, Pepin and Barron Counties
University of Wisconsin-Stout
Area Resource Center , Newspaper Index 1862-1930
http://www.uwstout.edu/lib/archives/genealogy.cfm
 
University of Wisconsin-Madison Ebling Library
Wisconsin Medical Journal Physician Obituary Database
1903-2008 608-262-2020
http://ebling.library.wisc.edu/historical/obits/index.php
 
Eau Claire County Public Library
Indexes for Barron and Eau Claire Counties; includes obituaries, cemeteries & marriages
715-839-5004 librarian@eauclaire.lib.wi.us
http://www.ecpubliclibrary.info/research/general/genealogy/
 
Fond Du Lac County Public Library Vital Statistics Index
Includes newspaper coverage, 1846-1977
902-929-7080 reference@fdlpl.org
http://sql.winnefox.org/fonddulac/vital/
 
Fond Du Lac County
Ripon Public Library Obituary Database
920-748-6160
http://sql.winnefox.org/ripon/vital/
 
Forest County
Crandon Public Library Local History Obituary Index
715-478-3784 info@crandonpl.org
http://www.crandonpl.org/obituary-index-2/
 
LaCrosse County
LaCrosse Public Library Newspaper Index
obituaries, births, marriages, divorces and cemeteries.
608-789-7136
http://archives.lacrosselibrary.org/
 
Outagamie County
Appleton Public Library Obituary Index
920-832-6170 refquest@apl.org
http://www.apl.org/e/apl
 
Outagamie County
Kaukauna Public Library Newspaper Index
1880-present
920-766-6340 kaulib@kaukauna-wi.org
$1 per article plus photocopying and postage
http://tinyurl.com/n3xhqjz
 
Portage County
University of Wisconsin-Stevens Point Newspaper Index
Archives & Area Research Center
715-346-2586 archives@uwsp.edu
http://library.uwsp.edu/depts/archives/archives.htm
 
Rock County
Hedberg Public Library Obituary Index
608-758-6581referencedesk@hedbergpubliclibrary.org
http://tinyurl.com/kuvm9k6
 
Sauk County
Reedsburg Public Library Newspaper Index
608-768-7323 info@reedsburglibrary.org
http://www.scls.lib.wi.us/reedsburg/genealogyinst.htm
 
Walworth County
Lake Geneva Public Library Obituary &
Birth Announcement Index
262-249-5299 lakegene@lakegeneva.lib.wi.us
http://www.lakegeneva.lib.wi.us/localhistory_db.htm
 
Waushara County Libraries Obituary Database
http://sql.winnefox.org/winnefox/waushara/vital/
 
Winnebago County
Oshkosh Public Library Obituary Index
920-236-5205
http://tinyurl.com/c3ztpnj
 
Winnebago County
Winneconne Public Library Newspaper Database
920-582-7091
http://sql.winnefox.org/winneconne/vital/default.asp
 
Winnebago County Libraries Vital Records Index
1865-1916, 1977-1980, 2002-present
http://sql.winnefox.org/winnefox/feature/
 
Wood County
McMillan Memorial Library
Index to Wisconsin Valley Leader, 1902-1906
715-422-5136
http://www.mcmillanlibrary.org/history/wvl.html
 
Wood County
Marshfield Public Library Genealogy Index
715-387-6909
http://engagedpatrons.org/database/mplgenealogy/
 
Genealogy Societies with Newspaper Indexes
Clark County Historical Society Obituary Indexes
http://www.wiclarkcountyhistory.org/index/obits/index.htm
 
Clark County Press Obituary Extracts, 1996-2000
http://tinyurl.com/k9xhc4c
 
Columbia County Obituaries Index
http://tinyurl.com/m4azxtn
 
Dodge-Jefferson Counties Genealogical Society
Clippings Index; over 700,000 entries
(920) 262-2362 djcgs@dodgejeffgen.com
http://www.dodgejeffgen.com/
 
Dunn County Obituary Index
1998-present
http://tinyurl.com/mua6s73
 
Green County Genealogical Society Obituary Indexes
1900-1939 green_ancestors@hotmail.com
$1.50 per copy
http://tinyurl.com/ke7yuq8
 
Kewaunee County
Algoma Record Herald Obituary Index (1873-1989)
http://wigenweb.org/kewaunee/obits/herald.html
 
Kewaunee County
Kewaunee Enterprise Obituary Index (no date range)
http://tinyurl.com/mfq4ovg
 
Kewaunee County
Kewaunee Enterprise Obituary Index (1921-1939)
http://tinyurl.com/ovpovs7
 
Langlade County, Antigo Newspaper Obituary Indexes
http://tinyurl.com/lcd8aph
 
Milwaukee County
Jewish Museum of Milwaukee
Wisconsin Jewish Chronicle Obituary Index, 1921-1996
414-390-5730
archives@jewishmuseummilwaukee.org
http://tinyurl.com/lph2ycs
 
Milwaukee County
Polish Genealogical Society of America
Milwaukee Polish Newspaper Index, 1900-1935
http://www.pgsa.org/kuryerpolski.php
 
Monroe County Local History Room
808-269-8680 MCLHR@centurytel.net
http://www.monroecountyhistory.org/libandgen.php
 
Oneida County
Rhinelander Area Newspaper Index, 1882-2006
http://wigenweb.org/oneida/robitindex.html
 
Richland County, Richland Observer Obituary Index
http://www.monticellowi.com/RichlandCo/Obit/Obit.htm
 
Richland County Newspaper Index, 1855-1900
http://www.tc.umn.edu/~jorda014/
 
Sauk County Historical Society Obituary Index
608-356-1001 history@saukcountyhistory.org
http://www.saukcountyhistory.org/genealogy.html
 
Shawano County Newspaper Index
wishawano@gmail.com
http://tinyurl.com/ldkfuqd
 
Sheboygan County Obituary Index
http://tinyurl.com/l2tqlu9
 
Digitized Newspaper Collections
Door County Library Newspaper Archive
http://tinyurl.com/m5e7udf
 
Waukesha Freeman Digital Archives, 1846-1955
http://waukesha.newspaperarchive.com/
 
Wisconsin Historical Society Civil War Newspaper Articles
http://tinyurl.com/kfyuygn
 
Microfilmed Newspaper Collections
Wisconsin Historical Society
816 State St.
Madison, WI 53706
http://tinyurl.com/pcvwm7h
 
http://www.wisconsinhistory.org/microfilm/
Search catalog of over 12,000 titles to purchase single pages, sections, digital files or microfilm reels.
 
Books
Bookstaff, Manning M., Index to Deaths Reported in The Wisconsin Jewish Chronicle, 1921-1961. Milwaukee: M.M. Bookstaff, 1994.









Wyoming


Libraries with Newspaper Indexes
Niobrara County Library Genealogy Archive
http://www.niobraracountylibrary.org/obituaries/
Transcribed, cross-referenced obituaries with photographs
 
Genealogy Societies with Newspaper Indexes
Albany County Obituary Index 1958-1968
http://www.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~wyalbany/obits.htm
 
Albany County Obituary Index 1968-1964
http://tinyurl.com/loqsbaz
 
Digitized Newspaper Collections
Wyoming Newspaper Project
http://wyonewspapers.org/
 
Microfilmed Newspaper Collections
Wyoming State Archives
Barrett Building
2301 Central Ave.
Cheyenne, WY 82002
(307) 777-7826
http://wyoarchives.state.wy.us/Archives/Newspapers.aspx
 
University of Wyoming Libraries
Dept. 3334
1000 E. University Ave.
Laramie, WY 82071
(307) 766-3190
http://libguides.uwyo.edu/content.php?pid=407792&sid=3398075
 
Books
Guide to Wyoming Frontier Newspapers. Cheyenne, WY: Wyoming State Archives, 1923.
 
Homsher, Lola, Guide to Wyoming Newspapers, 1867-1967. Cheyenne, WY: Wyoming State Library, 1971.









International Newspapers

Here is a selection of international newspaper websites. All of them are free unless otherwise noted. Be sure to check Google News Archive for international newspapers.
 

Afghanistan

Afghanistan Digital Library
http://afghanistandl.nyu.edu/index.html
 

Argentina

Hemeroteca Digital; searchable online access to digitized newspapers, 1911-1979
http://www.santafe.gov.ar/hemerotecadigital/articulo/portada/
 

Australia

National Library of Australia
http://trove.nla.gov.au/newspaper
Out of copyright newspapers, with over 500 titles.
 

Austria

Austrian Newspapers Online
http://anno.onb.ac.at/
 

Belgium

Aaist Digital Newspaper Archive, 1836-1992
http://aalst.courant.nu/
 
Belgian Newspapers Online
http://belgica.kbr.be/fr/coll/jour/jour_fr.html
 

Brazil

Digital Brasileira (1981-1984)
http://aalst.courant.nu/
 

Bulgaria

Bulgarian National Library complete collection
1877-1945
http://193.200.14.178/DWWebClient/View1.aspx?DWSubSession=5191&v=1796
 

Burma

Digitized Newspapers (1931-1934)
Available by purchase
http://www.myanmarbook.com/index.php?__2M3Nkamg=__1bWJjbmV3cw
 

Canada

 
Canada Gazette, 1841-1998
http://www.collectionscanada.gc.ca/canada-gazette/index-e.html
 
Connecting Canadians
Multicultural Newspapers
http://www.connectingcanadians.org/?q=en/content/browse-title-z
 
Alberta
Alberta Heritage Digitization Project, 1885-2001
http://www.ourfutureourpast.ca/newspapr/
 
Peel's Prairie Provinces
University of Alberta Libraries, 1871-2013
http://peel.library.ualberta.ca/newspapers/
 
Southern Alberta Newspaper Collection
University of Lethbridge, 1898-1991
http://digitallibrary.uleth.ca/cdm/landingpage/collection/sanews
 
Wainwright Star Chronicle, 1908-2008
http://www.wainwrightlibrary.ab.ca/Newspaper-Archives
 
British Columbia
BC Historical Newspapers, 1865-1993
University of British Columbia.
http://historicalnewspapers.library.ubc.ca/
 
The British Colonist, 1858-1910
University of Victoria
http://britishcolonist.ca/
 
Terrace Public Library
Eleanore Muehle Newspaper Archive
http://terracelibrary.ca/localhistory/onlineresources
 
The Outcrop, 1900-1907
University of Alberta Libraries
http://peel.library.ualberta.ca/newspapers/OTC/
 
Manitoba
Digital Resources on Manitoba History
Department of Canadian Heritage
1882-1971; in French and English
http://manitobia.ca/content/en/newspaperslist
 
Newfoundland and Labrador
Newfoundland Public Libraries Newspaper Index
http://www.library.mun.ca/newsweb/
 
Memorial University of Newfoundland Digital Collections
http://collections.mun.ca/cdm/
 
Nova Scotia
Nova Scotia Obituaries
http://nsobits.ca/
 
Ontario
Our Ontario Community Newspapers Collection
1834-1936
http://ink.ourontario.ca/
 
Early Canadiana Online
http://eco.canadiana.ca/
 
Oxford County Library, Ingersoll Newspapers
Available from within library
http://www.ocl.net/Genealogy
 
Paper of Record moved some (but not all) of their Ontario newspapers to Google News Archive in 2009.
 
Quebec
Bibliothèque et Archives nationales du Québec
http://www.banq.qc.ca/collections/collection_numerique/journaux-revues/index.html
 
Provincial Library and Archives
http://www.banq.qc.ca/collections/collection_numerique/index.html?categorie=6
 

Caribbean

Digital Library of the Caribbean
University of Florida
http://dloc.com/
 
Dutch National Library
Newspapers from Curaçao and Suriname
http://kranten.delpher.nl/
 

China

North China Daily News
Center for Research Libraries
http://catalog.crl.edu/record=b2844074~S1
 

Croatia

Metelwin Digital Library, 1867-present
http://library.foi.hr/nv/default.aspx?G=1&u=
 

Cyprus

American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee
Digitized Archive of newspapers published by Holocaust survivors detained on Cyprus
http://search.archives.jdc.org/?site=ideaalm&lang=en&param=%3Curl_query%3Eglobal@@cyprus%20publications@@WORD@@2%3C/url_query%3E
 

Cuba

Cuban Exile Newspapers
University of Miami
http://dloc.com/exhibits/cubanexilenewspapers
 
Cuban Heritage Digital Collection
University of Miami
http://dloc.com/exhibits/cubanexilenewspapers
 

Denmark

Illustreret Tidende (1859-1924)
http://illustrerettidende.dk/iti/main/Forside.xsql?nnoc=iti_pub
 

Egypt

http://www.pickyournewspaper.com/WORLD/AFRICA/Egypt.html
 

Estonia

http://digar.nlib.ee/digar/esileht
 

Europe

Europeana Newspapers
http://www.europeana-newspapers.eu/
 

Faroe Islands

Vestnord Project
http://timarit.is/?lang=4
 

Finland

National Library of Finland Digital Collections
1771-1910
http://digi.lib.helsinki.fi/sanomalehti
 

France

National Library of France
http://gallica.bnf.fr/html/presse-et-revues/les-principaux-quotidiens
 

Germany

Bavarian State Library
http://www.bayerische-landesbibliothek-online.de/schwerpunkte#Zeitungen
 
Berlin State Library
http://digital-b.staatsbibliothek-berlin.de/digitale_bibliothek/index.html
 
Düsseldorf University Digital Newspapers, 1769-1937
http://digital.ub.uni-duesseldorf.de/nav/index/all?&facets=type%3D%22document%2C21%22
 
Munich Digitization Center
http://www.muenchener-digitalisierungszentrum.de/index.html?c=suchen&l=en
 
University of Bonn
http://s2w.hbz-nrw.de/ulbbn/nav/classification/229854
 

Greece

National Library of Greece
http://www.nlg.gr/digitalnewspapers/ns/main.html
 

Ireland

Irish Newspaper Archive
Over 40 titles, covering 300 years
Subscription available by 24 hr., week or month
http://www.irishnewsarchive.com/
 

Hungary

South Hungary Archive
http://www.delmagyar.hu/delmagyarchiv/
 

India

Indian Online Newspapers
http://wiki.fibis.org/index.php?title=Newspapers_and_journals_online
 

Ireland

Belfast Newsletter, 1737-1800 (Index only)
http://www.ucs.louisiana.edu/bnl/
 
Irish Newspaper Archives, 1905-current
http://www.irishnewsarchive.com/
 
Villanova University Digital Library
http://digital.library.villanova.edu/Item/vudl:145635
 

Israel

Jewish National and University Library (19th-20th centuries)
http://jnul.huji.ac.il/dl/newspapers/eng.html
 
National Library of Israel
Historical Jewish Press
http://web.nli.org.il/sites/JPress/English/Pages/default.aspx
 

Italy

L'Emeroteca Digitale
http://emeroteca.braidense.it/indice_testate.php
 

Latvia

National Library of Latvia, 1886-1949
http://data.lnb.lv/digitala_biblioteka/laikraksti/index9.htm
 

Liechtenstein

National Library of Liechtenstein
http://www.eliechtensteinensia.li/Zeitungen/
 

Luxembourg

National Library of Luxembourg
http://www.eluxemburgensia.lu/R/RN=951413289&local_base=SERIALS
 

Mexico

Historical Newspapers from 19th Century Mexico
Yale University Library, Latin American Collection
Microfilm (not online)
http://www.library.yale.edu/latinamerica/mexicanhistoricalnews1.htm#aju
 

Netherlands

City of Leiden Newspapers
http://leiden.courant.nu/
 
Digital Newspaper Archive Eemland
http://archiefeemland.courant.nu/
 

New Zealand

National Library of New Zealand
http://paperspast.natlib.govt.nz/cgi-bin/paperspast
 

Norway

National Library of Norway
http://www.nb.no/nbsok/advanced_search?mediatype=aviser
 

Poland

Digital Polish Newspapers
http://buwcd.buw.uw.edu.pl/e_zbiory/ckcp/CKCP.html
 

Portugal

Lisbon Municipal Newspaper Library
http://hemerotecadigital.cm-lisboa.pt/
 

Romania

National Digital Library
http://digitool.bibnat.ro:8881/R
 

Singapore

National Library of Singapore
http://eresources.nlb.gov.sg/newspapers/
 

Slovenia

Digital Library of Slovenia
http://www.dlib.si/?G=1&u=
 

Spain

Biblioteca virtual de Prensa Histórica
http://prensahistorica.mcu.es/es/estaticos/contenido.cmd?pagina=estaticos/presentacion
 

Switzerland

Swiss National Library
http://newspaper.archives.rero.ch/Olive/ODE/index_en.html
 

United Kingdom

England
Richard Heaton's Index to Digitalised British and Irish Newspapers Online
http://freepages.genealogy.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~dutillieul/BritishandIrishNews.html
 
Georgian and early Victorian regional newspapers, 1750s-1870s
http://freepages.genealogy.rootsweb.ancestry.com/~dutillieul/ZOtherPapers/Index.html
 
Scotland
Ayr Advertiser, 1830-1835
http://www.south-ayrshire.gov.uk/libraries/bmd.aspx
 
Highland History & Culture
http://www.ambaile.org.uk/en/newspapers/index.jsp
 
National Library of Scotland
The Word on the Street, 1650-1910
http://digital.nls.uk/broadsides/
 
Wales
National Library of Wales
http://welshnewspapers.llgc.org.uk/en/home
 

Vietnam

National Library of Vietnam, 1890-1955
http://baochi.nlv.gov.vn/
 
For other international newspapers, please see the Wikipedia List:
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:List_of_online_newspaper_archives









About the Author

Claudia Breland is a researcher, author and speaker with 40 years of research experience. She is a member of the Association of Professional Genealogists, the National Genealogical Society, and various state and local genealogical societies. She has written articles for the national website Archives.com, the Association of Professional Genealogists Quarterly, and a column for her community newspaper, the Voice of the Valley. She has done onsite research at state archives in Washington, Oregon, Michigan and North Carolina, and at state libraries, historical societies, and county courthouses across the country.
 
Claudia has a Master's in Library Science, and has worked in the three largest library systems in Western Washington. She has taught library skills at the community college level, and for the past four years she has lectured on various topics for her local library system and genealogy societies in Western Washington.
 
Claudia's website is http://www.ccbreland.com. You can contact her at ccbreland@comcast.net.
 
Claudia lives in the Key Peninsula of Washington, near Gig Harbor.
 

 
















