




 
 
 
 
SIMPLE RECIPES
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIMPLE RECIPES
 
 
 
 
Terrence Ridgeway
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Copyright 2015 Terrence Ridgeway
ISBN-13:978-1519692436
ISBN-10:1519692439
 
 
DEDICATED 
To my Mother and Father
   
 
Who gave me the wonderful gift of Life,
I love you and thank you.
 
To my Four Children
 
Cory, Cierra, Tia and Owen
I love you beyond words.
 
To my Siblings
 
Adrinne, Yvette, Tara, Wanda, Darryl, Jeffrey, Sonya, James, Kieth, Lawerence.. 
RIP Lonnie
 
 
 
 
 
INTRODUCTION
 
 
This is the first book of many that will open your eyes to the world of Cooking.
You will learn to enjoy the art of taking a recipe and making a wonderful meal
 
This book has many simple recipes that are easy to make and most enjoyable.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SPECIAL THANKS TO
 
Chuck D. Diemert
 
 A teacher at Boces who gave me the opportunity to further my career in cooking.
 
Peter Robinson
 
For giving me a second chance making it possible to believe in myself again.
 
Pastor Anne Skinner
 
Who boosted my spirit and started me on a journey of writing and encouraged me to reach my potential and accomplish my desires.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ABOUT THE AUTHOR
 
  
Terrence Ridgeway is a loving and caring man whose passion is Cooking.  He has been cooking for 30 years as a Sous Chef. He does a lot of Volunteer work and is presently with Hannah House Ministries, reaching out to those who are less fortunate. He is Founder of Heaven's Kitchen with teaching classes on Youtube.
 
He teaches Baking and Cooking classes to the Youth.  Cooking is his life and often has said
"I love cooking as I love sharing with others"
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
LEMON PEPPER CHICKEN
 
  
 
Ingredients:
 
1 pound Chicken
(Breasts, Thighs or your preference)
 
Breading Recipe:
 
Seasoned Salt
Bread Crumbs
Onion Powder
Garlic Powder
 
(1)         Wash Chicken thoroughly. 
Dice Onion in a pan and sautéed. Sprinkle over chicken.
 
(2)         Mix Breading Ingredients, Bread Chicken and put on sheet tray.
 
Place in oven at 350' - 400' for 45 Minutes or until Chicken reaches 165' (check with thermometer) 
 
NOTES:   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CHICKEN & DUMPLINGS
 
  
 
Serves 8 - 10
Ingredients:
 
1 Small Chicken
½ stock Celery
1 Sweet diced small onion
2 cans Cream of Chicken soup
 
Put in pot..
 
Dumplings:
1-5 pound bag flour for Dumplings
Cold Water mix until it turns into dough.  Make into a ball, flour table, roll out dough.  Cut into ¼ inch squares, drop squares into water alternatively.
 
Add 2 cans Cream of Chicken soup
 
Put lid on pan, let simmer on low heat for 30 minutes.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FRIED BBQ CHICKEN
Injected Inside with BBQ Sauce
 
  
 
Ingredients:
 
1 pound Chicken
(Legs, Thighs or your preference)
Flour
 
BBQ Sauce Ingredients:
 
BBQ Sauce
Honey
Turkey Injector
Cisco Oil
 
(1)         Heat up grease till it gets hot but not smoky.
(2)         Roll Chicken in flour; give it a nice coating then deep fry in Crisco Oil.
(3)         Fry till crisp, let it drain.  While it is draining heat up BBQ Sauce with honey (Taste to your preference)
(4)         While Chicken is draining and sauce heating make sure sauce doesn't get too hot, just heat to melt honey and thin sauce.
(5)         Take injector, fill with BBQ sauce.  Inject in middle of each part of Chicken until Chicken bubbles.
(6)         Get sheet pan ready
(7)         As you inject each piece of Chicken place on sheet pan.
(8)         Put in oven at warm setting to keep warm.
(9)         It will taste so good it will make you want to slap your momma.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FRIED BBQ
 
  
 
This recipe is the same as Recipe for BBQ Chicken on previous page except you don't inject the Chicken.
 
When Chicken is done, cover Chicken with sauce and warm.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MEAT SAUTEED LASAGNE
 
  
 
Serving 12
 
Ingredients:
 
5 pounds of Noodles
1 stick of Butter
Parsley Flakes
Spaghetti Sauce
Parmesan Cheese
3 Pounds of Hamburger (Beef or Turkey)
2 Diced Onions
5 Pounds of Mozzarella Cheese
Garlic Powder to taste
Oregano
 
Boil noodles, while they are boiling cook hamburger, skinless sausage and onions all together.
 
In separate pan put in butter, oregano and melt butter.
Drain noodles, use a large pan and put spaghetti sauce in bottom.  
Layered in pan....
Butter sauce,
Noodles
Butter sauce,
¼ of the meat to cover noodles,
Mozzarella Cheese,
Spaghetti Sauce (Your choice)
 
Repeat layers two more times.
 
Last layer of noodles let it simmer in butter sauce for 4 minutes on low.
 
Layer top with noodles, spaghetti sauce and then smother with Cheese on top.
 
Bake at 350' for 1 hour or till cheese melts.
 
 
 
 
 
CAJUN CHICKEN
 
  
 
Serving 6
 
Ingredients:
 
6 Breasts of Chicken
Cajun Seasoning
Pepper
Flour
Seasoning Salt
Crisco Oil
 
Mix ingredients together and rub on Breasts, after roll in flour.
6 Breasts approx. ½ Pound
Cut breasts in a slant
 
Let grease get up to 300'
 
Gently put chicken in grease and turn when cooking.
 
Enjoy
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CHICKEN CORDON BLEU
 
  
 
Serving  6
 
Ingredients:
 
6 Breasts of Chicken ( Beat Flat)
½ Pound Ham
½ Pound Swiss Cheese
1 Box Bread Crumbs
12 Eggs
 
After beating the breast thin, layer the ham on the top of each breast, then the cheese on top of ham.  Roll the breast to an oval shape.  After you roll hold together with a toothpick and dip in beaten eggs, then roll in bread crumbs until fully covered.
 
Lay Chicken in pan with toothpick facing up.  Cook for 45 minutes in oven set at 350'.   When done toothpick should come out clear.
Serve with vegetables, french fries or rice.
 
Pour ranch dressing on or hot sauce, whatever you prefer.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CHICKEN CACCIATORE
 
  
 
Serving 6
 
Ingredients:
6 leg quarters - cleaned
2 pound bag of potatoes, pealed cut into 4
2 peppers cut into strips
2 bags small carrots
3 sweet onions diced
1 can tomato soup
2 medium cans of spaghetti sauce
 
Put all ingredients except spaghetti sauce and soup into slow cooker.  Cook until chicken is 165' when poked.  Usually around 45 minutes.  Cook slow.
 
After this is done take spaghetti sauce and tomato soup and pour in slow cooker with other ingredients.  Let simmer until juices flow..30 min.
 
Serve with Rice
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CHICKEN PARMESIAN
 
  
 
Serving 6
 
Ingredients:
6 Breasts of chicken - pound till flat - set aside
12 Eggs
1 bag breadcrumbs
Mozzarella Cheese
Spaghetti sause
 
Two Bowls
Bowl one beat the 12 eggs, in second bowl put the bag of breadcrumbs.
 
Dip chicken in Eggs and then in the Bread Crumbs.
 
Use Crisco Oil at low temperature, fry to light brown color.  Cook till chicken has a hard shell.
After frying place on cookie sheet putting spaghetti sauce at bottom of pan and on chicken.
Put on mozzarella cheese on chicken and layer with spaghetti sauce.
 
Bake at 300' for 20 minutes.
 
Serve with Spaghetti.
 
Salt and Pepper to taste.
 
Add as much Mozzarella cheese to your liking.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HANNAH BURGER
 
  
 
Serve 8
 
Ingredients:
2 pound 90% Beef
2 Pkgs Lipton Cup of Soup seasoning
1 Egg
 
Mix and beat altogether
 
Make quarter ounce patties, bake in 350' oven to preference
Serve with condiments, tomatoes, cheese, lettuce, onion or whatever you desire.
 
 
 
GOULASH EXPRESS
              
  
 
Serves 8
 
Ingredients:
 
6 Sausages - sweet and hot
1 Pound Hamburger Meat
2 Green peppers
2 Onions (sweet ones)
2 Mozzarella cheese grated bags
2 Box macaroni
Olive Oil
Spaghetti sauce ( Prego)
Garlic powder if preferred
 
Cook ground beef, sausage, onion diced, diced peppers, cook to well done.
Boil water before adding noodles
Drain meat
Add meat to spaghetti sauce, let simmer ½ hour constantly stirring
Drain noodles
Put noodles in baking pan (deep well)
Stir in meat mixture.
Put in one bag of cheese in mixture, after pan full layer cheese on top (single bag)
Wrap in aluminum foil 
Bake until cheese melts, approximately 15 minutes.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MEAT & BEANS
 
  
 
Serves 8
 
Ingredients:
1 Pound hamburger
24 oz.  Bush beans with maple brown sugar (2 medium cans)
BBQ sauce
2 Peppers
2 Onions
1 Pound bacon
 
Cook meat with diced onions and peppers.
Cut bacon in little squares; cook slowly to create brown grease.
Put beans in big pan, pour in ¾ of BBQ sauce, simmer, add diced bacon bits and add meat and add ¾ of grease.  Set in over to bake at low temperature 250' to simmer.
 
So good it will make you want to slap your Momma.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TUNA MACARONI SALAD
 
  
 
Serves 10 People
 
Ingredients:
 
2 ½ Pound Box Macaroni
8 Little cans of tuna
12 Eggs
Hellman's Mayonnaise
¼ Cup sweet relish
2 tsp Mustard
½ Cup sugar
 
Boil macaroni and make the hard boiled eggs.  Rinse macaroni with cold water to get starch off then cut eggs real fine.
Mix eggs and macaroni together, drain 5 cans of tuna and 3 cans with the oil or water and empty into macaroni and eggs.  Stir in Mayo to nice consistency, add mustard, sugar and relish.  Stir it up good until well mixed.  Refrigerate for hour and a half then enjoy.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DIP
 
  
 
Serving 4
 
Ingredients:
 
1 pound ground beef
1 chopped onion, diced fine.
½ bell pepper sliced thin.
Jalapeno cheese or cheddar cheese in jar
2 Tomatoes diced
Doritos chips
 
 
Cook ground beef with onions and peppers, drain it then add cheese, let simmer.  Let cool 20 min, add tomatoes, mix, put in bowl.
 
Enjoy Dip with Doritos
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
POTATO SALAD
 
  
 
Serves 8
 
Ingredients:
2 Pounds potato's diced
12 Eggs - hard boiled cut up fine
1 Cup sweet relish
1 Sweet Onion diced small
½ Cup Mustard
¼ Cup Sugar
Hellman's Mayonnaise
 
Mix all ingredients.  Make to consistency, not too creamy.
Let refrigerate for 45 minutes before eating.
 
 
BAKED MACARONI & CHEESE
 
  
 
Servings 8
 
Ingredients:
 
1 box of Macaroni & Cheese
2 Cups Milk
4 Bricks Sharp Cheddar Cheese 
(Shred yourself)
1 Stick of Butter
2     Eggs
 
 

Pour two cups of milk in a large pan
Let milk get hot and add 1 stick of butter.
Add 4 blocks of grated Cheese into mix but do not use all Cheese as some is for the topping.
Make sure noodles are drained.
Put noodles in baking pan.
Pour hot cheese in macaroni, stir and add 2 eggs which are beaten first, stir ingredients.
Take remainder of cheese and sprinkle over the top to make a thick layer.
Bake at 35' till cheese melts and has a brown crust.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CONTACT INFORMATION
 
heavenskitchenchefterrence@gmail.com
 
http://hannahhouse2002.org
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
















