












All Rights Reserved
All material in this book is copyrighted and may not be reproduced or transmitted in any 
form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording or by 
any information storage and retrieval system, without permission in writing from the
publisher.








Introduction
Before You Start 
As a technician, you must understand a basic rule of business, time is money. Whether you are
boss or work for someone else, the ability to identify and isolate a fault quickly and decisively is 
very important to the success of your business. It requires some common sense, and a little bit of 
focus. It also requires an understanding of the troubleshooting process, and reliable plan of 
action. Even though the number of configuration and setups are virtually unlimited, the
methodology used to approach each repair is always about the same. This introduction is 
intended to isolate the concepts of basic troubleshooting and show you how to apply basic repair 
steps that will help you narrow the problem down before you even take a screwdriver to the
mobile phone. By applying a constant technique. You can safe precious time from every repair.
The General Troubleshooting Steps
Regardless of how your particular smartphone might be, a dependable Troubleshooting steps can 
be broken down into four basic steps.
#1:Define your symptoms,
#2: identify and isolate the location of your problem
#3: replace the suspected component, and
#4:re-test the component thoroughly to be sure that you have solve the problem.
If you have not solved the problem, start again from step #1:Thisis a "universal" procedure that 
you can apply to any sort of troubleshooting __not just for phones.
DEFINE YOUR SYMPTOMS
When a phones breaks down, the cause might be a simple as a loose wire or a connector, or as 
complicated as an IC or component failure. Before you start, you must have a good 
understanding of all the symptoms. Think about the symptoms carefully. By recognizing and 
understanding your symptoms, it can be much easier to trace a problem to the appropriate 
component. Take the time to write down as many symptoms as you can. As a technician, you 
must often write problems and solutions for reference purposes.
IDENTIFY AND ISOLATE
Before you try to isolate a problem within a piece of hardware, you must first be sure that the 
equipment itself is causing the problem. In many cases, this will be fairly obvious, but some 
situation might not be. A faulty or improperly configured piece of software can cause confusing
system errors. When you are sure that it is a system's hardware failure, you can begin to identify
which component fails. 
REPLACE
Because phones are designed as a sub-unit, it is almost always easier to replace a sub-unit
outright, rather than attempt to repair the sub-unit to its component level. Even if you had the 
time, to isolate defective component, many parts are not inter-changeable, so it is better to 
replace the defective part than try to repair it
RE-TEST
When a repair is finally complete, the system must be reassembly carefully before testing it. All 
guards, housings, cables and shields must replaced before final testing. If symptoms persist, you 
will have to reevaluate the symptoms and narrow the problem to another parts of the equipment. 
If normal operation is restored (or greatly improved), test the phones's various function. When 
you can verify that the symptoms have stop during actual operation, the equipment can be
returned to service. As a general rule, it is wise to let the system run for at least 24 hours to 
ensure that the replacement sub-assembly will not fail prematurely.
Do not be discouraged if the equipment still malfunctions. Maybe software settings and device
drivers may need to be updated to. If you are tired simply walk away, clear your hand, and start 
again by defining the current symptoms. Never continue with a repair if you are tired or 
frustrated tomorrow is another day. Even the most experienced troubleshooters get overwhelmed 
from time to time. 







Contents
LESSON 01 
Basic Information How Cellphone Works 
Learning with Block Diagram on How basically Cell-phone works 
LESSON 02
Introduction To Basic Electronics
Ohm's Law
Series Circuit
Parallel Circuit
Identifying Electronics Components and Circuit Symbols 
Resistors
Capacitors
Transistors
Diodes
Fuse
Coils & Inductors
Crystal Oscillators
RF & IF Amplifiers and Filters
EMI and ESD Filters
LESSON 03
Preparing the Proper Tools For Repairing
Opening Tools and Tweezers
Soldering and Desoldering Tools
Muti Tester
SMD Rework Stations
DC Power Supply
Cleaning Kits
Reballing Kits
Working Table Equipment
LESSON 04
Safety Procedures and Proper Handling of Tools and Test Equipment on Cellphone
Repair
How To Use and Read a Multimeter Tester
Test and Check up Procedures on Basic Electronics Components
LESSON 05
Introduction to 
Reading Cellphone's Schematic Diagrams
Identifying Component Symbols and Layout in Schematic Diagram
How to Identify Resistor's Symbols and Layout
How to Identify Capacitor's Symbols and Layout
How to Identify Transistor's Symbols and Layout
How to Identify Diodes Symbols and Layout
How to Identify Coil Symbols and Layout
How to Identify Integrated Circuit Symbols and Layout
How to Identify DC to DC Voltage Drivers, Regulators and
Converters Symbols and Layout
How to Identify EMI-ESD Symbols and Layout
How to Identify RF Filter Symbols and Layout
How to Identify Battery Cell Symbols and Layout
How to Identify Power Switch , Mouthpiece, Earpiece and Ringtones Speakers User 
Interface Symbols and Layout
How to Identify Clock Crystal Oscillator Symbols and Layout
How to Identify Fuse Symbol and Layout
How to Identify the Lines and Symbols on Schematic Diagram
LESSON 06 
How to Find and Locate Components on PC BoardHow to Solder SMD Components 
Manually by Hand 
How to Reball BGA Chips Manually by Hand 
Identifying and Familiarization of Common Mobile Phones Components and Spare 
Parts
Liquid Crystal Display LCD's Touch Screen Panels Microphones Micro Speakers 
Switches Charging Pins Antenna's Batteries Battery Connectors USB connectors
Understanding Major Integrated Circuits (IC) on Mobile Phones
Power Management IC
Application Processor
Flash IC
RAM IC
Basic Hardware Handling Procedures
Proper Disassembling and Assembling Methods
How to Test Mobile phone Speaker, Buzzer or Ringer
How to Test Mobile phone Microphone or Mouthpiece
How to test Mobile Phone Charger Voltage
How to Test Mobile Phone Vibra Motor
How to check Mobile Phone Battery Voltage
How to test Power ON OFF Switch
Troubleshooting
How to Troubleshoot Not Charging Issues
How charging circuit works
No Charging Response
Charger Not Supported
Not Charging
How SIM Circuits works
Insert Sim Card Problem
Invalid Sim Card
How Keypad Circuits Works
How to Map and Trace keypads Lines 
Understanding The LED light Circuits
Explanation on How Audio Circuits work
Mouthpiece
Earpiece
Buzzer
Ringer
Headset
Vibra motor
How LCD Display Circuit Works
Understanding How RF circuit works
Basic Mobile Phones Hardware Repair Techniques
Basic on Software Handling
What is Flashing
What is Unlocking








PART 1
Introduction: 
How Cellphone Works
As a basic Part of a Technician, It is fully advice that he/she must have a basic knowledge of what 
technology he or she come up to..
Before we proceed further, please take a simple brief to enhanced your knowledge about the Field of
What we are going to discuss hereafter.... Now first come first we all ever wonder how does the 
cellphone works?
have you ever wondered how a cell phone works? What makes it different from a regular phone? what's 
inside of it and how do they created it? What do all those terms like PCS, GSM, CDMA and TDMA mean?
To start with, one of the most interesting things about a cell phone is that it is actually a radio -- an
extremely sophisticated radio, but a radio nonetheless. The telephone was invented by Alexander 
Graham Bell in 1876, and wireless communication can trace its roots to the invention of the radio by
Nikolai Tesla in the 1880s (formally presented in 1894 by a young Italian named Guglielmo Marconi). It 
was only natural that these two great technologies would eventually be combined.
If you prepare to take a deep knowledge, i recommended you to visit this site and have a brief 
Fundamentals of Wireless Communication
A basic technician all need is just to have a simple understanding about cellphones, we do not need
extreme and intimate deeper meaning about it, 
that's because what we are going to take around here is to fix what those various mobile phones 
company created and build....to make it as simple as that...







Cell Phone Network Technologies: 
2G Technology
There are three common technologies used by 2G cell-phone networks for transmitting information: 
* Frequency division multiple access (FDMA)
* Time division multiple access (TDMA)
* Code division multiple access (CDMA)  
Although these technologies sound very intimidating, you can get a good sense of how they work just by
breaking down the title of each one. 
The first word tells you what the access method is. The second word, division, lets you know that it splits 
calls based on that access method.
* FDMA puts each call on a separate frequency.
* TDMA assigns each call a certain portion of time on a designated frequency.
* CDMA gives a unique code to each call and spreads it over the available frequencies. 
The last part of each name is multiple access. This simply means that more than one user can utilize
each cell.







FDMA
FDMA separates the spectrum into distinct voice channels by splitting it into uniform chunks of 
bandwidth. To better understand FDMA, think of radio stations: Each station sends its signal at a 
different frequency within the available band. FDMA is used mainly for analog transmission. While it is 
certainly capable of carrying digital information, FDMA is not considered to be an efficient method for
digital transmission.
In FDMA, each phone uses a different frequency.







TDMA
TDMA is the access method used by the Electronics Industry Alliance and the Telecommunications 
Industry Association for Interim Standard 54 (IS-54) and Interim Standard 136 (IS-136). Using TDMA, a 
narrow band that is 30 kHz wide and 6.7 milliseconds long is split time-wise into three time slots.
Narrow band means "channels" in the traditional sense. Each conversation gets the radio for one-third
of the time. This is possible because voice data that has been converted to digital information is 
compressed so that it takes up significantly less transmission space. Therefore, TDMA has three times 
the capacity of an analog system using the same number of channels. TDMA systems operate in either 
the 800-MHz (IS-54) or 1900-MHz (IS-136) frequency bands.
TDMA splits a frequency into time slots.
Unlocking Your GSM Phone
Any GSM phone can work with any SIM card, but some service providers "lock" the phone so that it will 
only work with their service. If your phone is locked, you can't use it with any other service provider, 
whether locally or overseas. You can unlock the phone using a special code -- but it's unlikely your 
service provider will give it to you. There are Web sites that will give you the unlock code, some for a 
small fee, some for free.







GSM
TDMA is also used as the access technology for 
Global System for Mobile communications (GSM). 
However, GSM implements TDMA in a somewhat different and incompatible way from IS-136. Think of
GSM and IS-136 as two different operating systems that work on the same processor, like Windows and
Linux both working on an Intel Pentium III. GSM systems use encryption to make phone calls more 
secure. GSM operates in the 900-MHz and 1800-MHz bands in Europe and Asia and in the 850-MHz and
1900-MHz (sometimes referred to as 1.9-GHz) band in the United States. It is used in digital cellular and
PCS-based systems. GSM is also the basis for Integrated Digital Enhanced Network (IDEN), a popular
system introduced by Motorola and used by Nextel.
GSM is the international standard in Europe, Australia and much of Asia and Africa. In covered areas, 
cell-phone users can buy one phone that will work anywhere where the standard is supported. To
connect to the specific service providers in these different countries, GSM users simply switch subscriber 
identification module (SIM) cards. SIM cards are small removable disks that slip in and out of GSM cell 
phones. They store all the connection data and identification numbers you need to access a particular 
wireless service provider. 
Unfortunately, the 850MHz/1900-MHz GSM phones used in the United States are not compatible with 
the international system. If you live in the United States and need to have cell-phone access when you're 
overseas, you can either buy a tri-band or quad-band GSM phone and use it both at home and when 
traveling or just buy a GSM 900MHz/1800MHz cell phone for traveling. You can get 900MHz/1800MHz
GSM phones from Planet Omni, an online electronics firm based in California. They offer a wide 
selection of Nokia, Motorola and Ericsson GSM phones. They don't sell international SIM cards, 
however. You can pick up prepaid SIM cards for a wide range of countries at Telestial.com.







CDMA
CDMA takes an entirely different approach from TDMA. CDMA, after digitizing data, spreads it out over 
the entire available bandwidth. Multiple calls are overlaid on each other on the channel, with each 
assigned a unique sequence code. CDMA is a form of spread spectrum, which simply means that data is
sent in small pieces over a number of the discrete frequencies available for use at any time in the 
specified range.
In CDMA, each phone's data has a unique code.
All of the users transmit in the same wide-band chunk of spectrum. Each user's signal is spread over the
entire bandwidth by a unique spreading code. At the receiver, that same unique code is used to recover 
the signal. Because CDMA systems need to put an accurate time-stamp on each piece of a signal, it 
references the GPS system for this information. Between eight and 10 separate calls can be carried in
the same channel space as one analog AMPS call. CDMA technology is the basis for Interim Standard 95
(IS-95) and operates in both the 800-MHz and 1900-MHz frequency bands.
Ideally, TDMA and CDMA are transparent to each other. In practice, high-power CDMA signals raise the
noise floor for TDMA receivers, and high-power TDMA signals can cause overloading and jamming of 
CDMA receivers.
2G is a cell phone network protocol. Click here to learn about network protocols for Smartphones.
Now let's look at the distinction between multiple-band and multiple-mode technologies.







Multi-band vs. Multi-mode Cell Phones
Dual Band vs. Dual Mode
If you travel a lot, you will probably want to look for phones that offer multiple bands, multiple modes
or both. Let's take a look at each of these options:
* Multiple band
 - A phone that has multiple-band capability can switch frequencies. For example, a 
dual-band TDMA phone could use TDMA services in either an 800-MHz or a 1900-MHz system. A quadband GSM phone could use GSM service in the 850-MHz, 900-MHz, 1800-MHz or 1900-MHz band.
* Multiple mode
 - In cell phones, "mode" refers to the type of transmission technology used. So, a 
phone that supported AMPS and TDMA could switch back and forth as needed. It's important that one 
of the modes is AMPS -- this gives you analog service if you are in an area that doesn't have digital 
support.
* Multiple band/Multiple mode - The best of both worlds allows you to switch between frequency
bands and transmission modes as needed.







Cellular vs. PCS
Personal Communications Services (PCS) is a wireless phone service very similar to cellular phone
service, but with an emphasis on personal service and extended mobility. The term "PCS" is often used 
in place of "digital cellular," but true PCS means that other services like paging, caller ID and e-mail are
bundled into the service.
While cellular was originally created for use in cars, PCS was designed from the ground up for greater
user mobility. PCS has smaller cells and therefore requires a larger number of antennas to cover a 
geographic area. PCS phones use frequencies between 1.85 and 1.99 GHz (1850 MHz to 1990 MHz).
Technically, cellular systems in the United States operate in the 824-MHz to 894-MHz frequency bands;
PCS operates in the 1850-MHz to 1990-MHz bands. And while it is based on TDMA, PCS has 200-kHz
channel spacing and eight time slots instead of the typical 30-kHz channel spacing and three time slots
found in digital cellular.
Changing bands or modes is done automatically by phones that support these options. Usually the
phone will have a default option set, such as 1900-MHz TDMA, and will try to connect at that frequency
with that technology first. If it supports dual bands, it will switch to 800 MHz if it cannot connect at 1900
MHz. And if the phone supports more than one mode, it will try the digital mode(s) first, then switch to
analog.
You can find both dual-mode and tri-mode phones. The term "tri-mode" can be deceptive. It may mean
that the phone supports two digital technologies, such as CDMA and TDMA, as well as analog. In that
case, it is a true tri-mode phone. But it can also mean that it supports one digital technology in two
bands and also offers analog support. A popular version of the tri-mode type of phone for people who
do a lot of international traveling has GSM service in the 900-MHz band for Europe and Asia and the 
1900-MHz band for the United States, in addition to the analog service. Technically, this is a dual-mode
phone, and one of those modes (GSM) supports two bands.







3G and 3GS Technology
In the next section, we'll take a look at 3G mobile-phone technology.
3G technology is the latest in mobile communications. 3G stands for "third generation" -- this makes 
analog cellular technology generation one and digital/PCS generation two. 3G technology is intended for
the true multimedia cell phone -- typically called smartphones -- and features increased bandwidth and
transfer rates to accommodate Web-based applications and phone-based audio and video files.
3G comprises several cellular access technologies. The three most common ones as of 2005 are:
* CDMA2000 - based on 2G Code Division Multiple Access (see Cellular Access Technologies)
* WCDMA (UMTS) - Wideband Code Division Multiple Access
* TD-SCDMA - Time-division Synchronous Code-division Multiple Access
3G 
networks have potential transfer speeds of up to 3 Mbps (about 15 seconds to download a 3-minute 
MP3 song). For comparison, the fastest 2G phones can achieve up to 144Kbps (about 8 minutes to
download a 3-minute song). 3G's high data rates are ideal for downloading information from the
Internet and sending and receiving large, multimedia files. 3G phones are like mini-laptops and can
accommodate broadband applications like video conferencing, receiving streaming video from the Web, 
sending and receiving faxes and instantly downloading e-mail messages with attachments.
3GS
 feels wonderfully familiar - it's design is almost identical to the 3G, and it's not until you switch the
device on that you start to appreciate the differences. The "S" stands for speed - Apple has used a faster
processor in the 3GS, and the impact is immediate, with applications loading more briskly, programs
running noticeably faster, and the already slick user-interface getting an extra layer of go-faster stripes. 
It's also HSDPA compatible, a step up from 3G, meaning it can surf the web at faster speeds. Battery life 
is longer too; I was able to squeeze a full day out of my iPhone without needing to give it a lunchtime 
charging boost. 







Block diagram on how cell-phone works 
How Cell-phone works
In this lesson we are going to take a brief familiarization of a typical block diagram of a
cellphone.
Block Diagram can help us understand the flow of a certain part of a cellphone's circuit.
A Cell-phone handset is basically composed of two sections,
which is RF and Baseband Sections.
RF
RF refers to radio frequency, the mode of communication for wireless technologies of all kinds, 
including cordless phones, radar, ham radio, GPS, and radio and television broadcasts. RF
technology is so much a part of our lives we scarcely notice it for its ubiquity. From baby
monitors to cell phones, Bluetooth® to remote control toys, RF waves are all around us. RF
waves are electromagnetic waves which propagate at the speed of light, or 186,000 miles per 
second (300,000 km/s). The frequencies of RF waves, however, are slower than those of visible
light, making RF waves invisible to the human eye.
Baseband
In signal processing, baseband describes signals and systems whose range of frequencies is 
measured from zero to a maximum bandwidth or highest signal frequency. It is sometimes used 
as a noun for a band of frequencies starting at zero.
In telecommunications, it is the frequency range occupied by a message signal prior to 
modulation.
It can be considered as a synonym to low-pass.
Baseband is also sometimes used as a general term for part of the physical components of a
wireless communications product. Typically, it includes the control circuitry (microprocessor), 
the power supply, and amplifiers.
A baseband processor is an IC that is mainly used in a mobile phone to process communication 
functions. 
Basically Baseband also composed of to sections which is the Analog and Digital Processing
Sections. So, we are going to separate each other for better and easier to understand.
Cell-phone have three different sections which is the following.
I prepare this to be simple and easy instead of using or explaining it with deep technical terms . 
In this manner, it is easy for us to understand the concepts and methods of how basically the 
cellphone works.
Cell-phone have three sections since baseband is differentiated by into two which is the Analog
and Digital function while the RF section remains as a whole circuit section.. 
which consists of following
1. Radio Frequency (RF Section) 
2. The Analog Baseband Processor 
3. And the Digital Baseband Processor.








Radio Frequency Processing Section 
The RF section is the part of the cell-phone circuit is also known as RF Transceiver.
It is the section that transmit and receive certain frequency to a network and synchronize to other 
phone. 
The RF - A radio section is based on two main Circuits. 
1 Transmitter
2 Reciever
A simple mobile phone uses these two circuits to correspond to an other mobile phone. A 
Transmitter is a circuit or device which is used to transmit radio signals in the air.and a reciever 
is simply like radios which are used to recieve transmissions(Radiation) which is spread in the
air by any transmitter on a specific frequency.
The two way communication is made possible by setting two transmitters and two recievers 
sycronized in this form that a trasmitter in a cell phone is syncronised with the frequency of other 
cell phone's recieving frequency same like the transmitter of second cell phone is syncronised 
with the recieving frequency of first cell phone. So first cell phone transmits its radiation in the 
air while the other phone listens it and same process is present in the opposit side. so these hand 
held two cell phones correspond to one another.
the technology used in these days is a little bit different but it is based on the basic theory
prescribed before. the today's technology will be discussed in later on.







Analog Baseband Processor 
A/D and D/A section
The analog baseband processing section is composed of different types of circuits.
This section converts and process the analog to digital (A/D) signals and digital to analog
signals (D/A).
Control section
This is the section acts as the controller of the the input and output of any analog and digital 
signal.
Power Management
A power management section in mobile phones is designed to handle energy matters that is 
consumed in mobile phones. There are two main sub sections in a single power section.
• Power Distribution and switching section 
• Charging Section 
A power distribution section is designed to distribute desired Voltages and current to the other 
sections of a phone. this section takes power from a battery (which is figured commonly 3.6 
Volts)and in some places it converts or step down to various volts like 2.8 V 1.8V 1.6V etc.
while on other place it also
steps up the voltage like 4.8 V. this section is commonly designed around a power IC(and 
integrated circuit) which is used to distribute and regulate the voltage used in other components.
The Charging section is based on a charging IC which takes power from an external source and 
gives it to battery to make it again power up when it is exhausted. this section uses convertibly
6.4 V from an external battery charger and regulates it to 5.8V wile giving it to battery. The
battery is made charged by this process and it is ready to use for the next session (a battery
session is a time which is provided by the manufacturer of a cell phone for standby by condition 
of a mobile phone or talk condition.)
Audio Codecs Section
This section where analog and digital audio properties being process like the microphone, 
earpiece speaker headset and ring-tones and also the vibrator circuits.







Digital Baseband Processor 
This is the part where All Application being process. Digital Baseband Processor section is used 
in mobile phones to handle data input and output signal like switching, driving applications 
commands and memory accessing and executing.
These are the parts and sections o a Digital Baseband Circuit were installed.
CPU
CPU( Central Processing Unit) The Central Processing Unit (CPU) is responsible for interpreting
and executing most of the commands from the users interface. It is often called the "brains" of 
the microprocessor, central processor, "the brains of the computer"
Flash and Memory Storage Circuits
*RAM( Random Access Memory)
*ROM,Flash(Read Only Memory
Interfaces such as the following were also part on this section:
*Blutooth
*Wi-fi
*Camera
*Screen Display
*Keypads
*USB
*SIM-Card
Here a typical overview of a block diagram on latest mobile phone designs.
Various mobile phones have different concepts and design on every aspects, but the methods and 
operational flow are all exactly the same. It differs on how and what certain IC chips and parts 
they are being used and installed to a certain mobile phone circuitry.








PART 2
Basic Electronics 
Definition of Electronics:
Electronics is the branch of science that deals with the study of flow and control of electrons 
(electricity) and the study of their behavior and effects in vacuums, gases, and semiconductors, 
and with devices using such electrons. This control of electrons is accomplished by devices that 
resist, carry, select, steer, switch, store, manipulate, and exploit the electron.
Electronics isn't always easy, but you can learn. And you can do it without memorizing theories 
and formulas belong in a Physics text. the focus of this program is learning how things work. 
Electronics may defined as an art of knowledge to make such impossible things work. Things 
such as Televisions, AM/FM Radios, Computers and of course the mobile phones and etc. We
are surrounded by electronics....
Learning how things work can be fun. 
With this skill you can Build things.
make better use of things
and repair things..
have better job opportunities
An important part of learning electronics 
is the need to visualize the action inside a piece of equipment. In electronics things happen at a 
sub-atomic level. to understand what is happening, you need a mental picture, a visualization of
events you can see directly. You need a in your mind of how events are turned on and off. you 
need to visualize signals being amplified and attenuated. ( These are long words for being made
bigger and smaller )
take an overview of electronic equipment. Inside anything what's happening can be describe as 
some kind of source delivering power to some kind of a load. The terms source and load become
clearer as you can discover a few basics. A source is where the energy comes from. A load is 
what does the work. When power is delivered to a load, the load produces sound, heat, pictures 
or anything else that can be produced electronically..
On successful completion of this lesson you will be able to:
describe the structure of a simple atom
recognize a series resistor circuit
calculate the expected current in a series circuit
calculate the power dissipated in a resistor from color code
measure the voltage across a resistor or circuit
measure the current through a resistor circuit
recognize several types of switches
determine circuit paths in switched circuits







Ohm's Law 
What is Ohm's Law? 
Ohm's Law is made from 3 mathematical equations that shows the relationship between electric 
voltage, current and resistance.
What is voltage?
 An analogy would be a huge water tank filled with thousands of gallons of 
water high on a hill.
The difference between the pressure of water in the tank and the water that comes out of a pipe 
connected at the bottom leading to a faucet is determined by the size of the pipe and the size of 
the outlet of the faucet. This difference of pressure between the two can be thought of as 
potential Voltage.
What is current?
 An analogy would be the amount of flow determined by the pressure (voltage) 
of the water thru the pipes leading to a faucet. The term current refers to the quantity, volume or 
intensity of electrical flow, as opposed to voltage, which refers to the force or "pressure" causing
the current flow. 
What is resistance?
 An analogy would be the size of the water pipes and the size of the faucet. 
The larger the pipe and the faucet (less resistance), the more water that comes out! The smaller 
the pipe and faucet, (more resistance), the less water that comes out! This can be thought of as 
resistance to the flow of the water current.
All three of these: voltage, current and resistance directly interact in Ohm's law.
Change any two of them and you effect the third.
Info: Ohm's Law was named after Bavarian mathematician and physicist Georg Ohm. 
Ohm's Law can be stated as mathematical equations, all derived from the
same principle. 
In the following equations, 
V is voltage measured in volts (the size of the water tank),
I is current measured in amperes (related to the pressure (Voltage) of water thru the pipes and
faucet) and 
R is resistance measured in ohms as related to the size of the pipes and faucet: 
V = I x R (Voltage = Current multiplied by Resistance)  
R = V / I (Resistance = Voltage divided by Current) 
I = V / R (Current = Voltage Divided by Resistance)  
Knowing any two of the values of a circuit, one can determine (calculate) the third, using Ohm's 
Law. 
For example, to find the Voltage in a circuit:
If the circuit has a current of 2 amperes, and a resistance of 1 ohm, (< these are the two 
"known"), then according to Ohms Law and the formulas above, voltage equals current 
multiplied by resistance:
(V = 2 amperes x 1 ohm = 2 volts).
To find the current in the same circuit above assuming we did not know it but we know the
voltage and resistance:
I = 2 volts divided by the resistance 1 ohm = 2 amperes.
In this third example we know the current (2 amperes) and the voltage (2 volts)....what is the 
resistance?
Substituting the formula:
R = Volts divided by the current (2 volts divided by 2 amperes = 1 ohm
Sometimes it's very helpful to associate these formulas Visually. The Ohms Law "wheels" and 
graphics below can be a very useful tool to jog your memory and help you to understand their
relationship.
The wheel above is divided into three sections:
Volts V (on top of the dividing line)
Amps (amperes) I (lower left below the dividing line)
Resistance R (lower right below the dividing line)
X represents the (multiply by sign)
Memorize this wheel 
To use, just cover the unknown quantity you need with your minds eye and what is left is the 
formula to find the unknown. 
Example: 
To find the current of a circuit (I), just cover the I or Amps section in your mines eye and what 
remains is the V volts above the dividing line and the R ohms (resistance) below it. Now
substitute the known values. Just divided the known volts by the known resistance.
Your answer will be the current in the circuit.
The same procedure is used to find the volts or resistance of a circuit! 
Here is another example:  
You know the current and the resistance in a circuit but you want to find out the voltage. 
Just cover the voltage section with your minds eye...what's left is the I X R sections. Just 
multiply the I value times the R value to get your answer! Practice with the wheel and you'll be
surprised at how well it works to help you remember the formulas without trying!
This Ohm's Law Triangle graphic is also helpful to learn the formulas.
Just cover the unknown value and follow the graphic as in the yellow wheel examples above. 
You'll have to insert the X between the I and R in the graphic and imagine the horizontal divide
line but the principal is just the same.
In the above Ohm's law wheel you'll notice that is has an added section (P) for Power and the 
letter E* has been used instead of the letter V for voltage.
This wheel is used in the exact same fashion as the other wheels and graphics above.
You will also notice in the blue/green areas there are only two known values with the unknown 
value in the yellow sections. The red bars separate the four units of interest.
An example of the use of this wheel is:
Let's say that you know the power and the current in a circuit and want to know the voltage.
Find your unknown value in the yellow areas (V or E* in this wheel) and just look outward and 
pick the values that you do know. These would be the P and the I. Substitute your values in the 
formula, (P divided by I) do the math and you have your answer!
Info: Typically, Ohm's Law is only applied to DC circuits and not AC circuits.
* The letter "E" is sometimes used in representations of Ohm's Law for voltage instead of the
"V" as in the wheel above.
OHM's LAW Calculator
Series Circuit
A circuit composed solely of components connected in series is known as a series circuit
A Simple Series Circuit 
Let's start with a series circuit consisting of three resistors and a single battery: 
The first principle to understand about series circuits is that the amount of current is the same 
through any component in the circuit. This is because there is only one path for electrons to flow 
in a series circuit, and because free electrons flow through conductors like marbles in a tube, the 
rate of flow (marble speed) at any point in the circuit (tube) at any specific point in time must be
equal. 
From the way that the 9 volt battery is arranged, we can tell that the electrons in this circuit will
flow in a counter-clockwise direction, from point 4 to 3 to 2 to 1 and back to 4. However, we
have one source of voltage and three resistances. How do we use Ohm's Law here?
An important caveat to Ohm's Law is that all quantities (voltage, current, resistance, and power)
must relate to each other in terms of the same two points in a circuit. For instance, with a singlebattery, single-resistor circuit, we could easily calculate any quantity because they all applied to 
the same two points in the circuit: 
Since points 1 and 2 are connected together with wire of negligible resistance, as are points 3 and 
4, we can say that point 1 is electrically common to point 2, and that point 3 is electrically
common to point 4. Since we know we have 9 volts of electromotive force between points 1 and 
4 (directly across the battery), and since point 2 is common to point 1 and point 3 common to 
point 4, we must also have 9 volts between points 2 and 3 (directly across the resistor). 
Therefore, we can apply Ohm's Law (I = E/R) to the current through the resistor, because we
know the voltage (E) across the resistor and the resistance (R) of that resistor. All terms (E, I, R) 
apply to the same two points in the circuit, to that same resistor, so we can use the Ohm's Law 
formula with no reservation. 
However, in circuits containing more than one resistor, we must be careful in how we apply
Ohm's Law. In the three-resistor example circuit below, we know that we have 9 volts between 
points 1 and 4, which is the amount of electromotive force trying to push electrons through the 
series combination of R1, R2, and R3. However, we cannot take the value of 9 volts and divide it
by 3k, 10k or 5k Ω to try to find a current value, because we don't know how much voltage is 
across any one of those resistors, individually. 
The figure of 9 volts is a
 total quantity for the whole circuit, whereas the figures of 3k, 10k, and 
5k Ω are individual quantities for individual resistors. If we were to plug a figure for total 
voltage into an Ohm's Law equation with a figure for individual resistance, the result would not 
relate accurately to any quantity in the real circuit.
For R1, Ohm's Law will relate the amount of voltage across R1 with the current through R1, given 
R1's resistance, 3kΩ: 
But, since we don't know the voltage across R1 (only the total voltage supplied by the battery
across the three-resistor series combination) and we don't know the current through R1, we can't 
do any calculations with either formula. The same goes for R2 and R3: we can apply the Ohm's 
Law equations if and only if all terms are representative of their respective quantities between 
the same two points in the circuit. 
So what can we do? We know the voltage of the source (9 volts) applied across the series 
combination of R1, R2, and R3, and we know the resistances of each resistor, but since those 
quantities aren't in the same context, we can't use Ohm's Law to determine the circuit current. If 
only we knew what the total resistance was for the circuit: then we could calculate total current 
with our figure for total voltage (I=E/R). 
This brings us to the second principle of series circuits: the total resistance of any series circuit is 
equal to the sum of the individual resistances. This should make intuitive sense: the more
resistors in series that the electrons must flow through, the more difficult it will be for those 
electrons to flow. In the example problem, we had a 3 kΩ, 10 kΩ, and 5 kΩ resistor in series, 
giving us a total resistance of 18 kΩ: 
In essence, we've calculated the equivalent resistance of R1, R2, and R3 combined. Knowing this, 
we could re-draw the circuit with a single equivalent resistor representing the series combination 
of R1, R2, and R3: 
Now we have all the necessary information to calculate circuit current, because we have the 
voltage between points 1 and 4 (9 volts) and the resistance between points 1 and 4 (18 kΩ): 
Knowing that current is equal through all components of a series circuit (and we just determined 
the current through the battery), we can go back to our original circuit schematic and note the
current through each component: 
Now that we know the amount of current through each resistor, we can use Ohm's Law to 
determine the voltage drop across each one (applying Ohm's Law in its proper context):  
Notice the voltage drops across each resistor, and how the sum of the voltage drops (1.5 + 5 +
2.5) is equal to the battery (supply) voltage: 9 volts. This is the third principle of series circuits: 
that the supply voltage is equal to the sum of the individual voltage drops. 
However, the method we just used to analyze this simple series circuit can be streamlined for 
better understanding. By using a table to list all voltages, currents, and resistances in the circuit, 
it becomes very easy to see which of those quantities can be properly related in any Ohm's Law 
equation: 
The rule with such a table is to apply Ohm's Law only to the values within each vertical column. 
For instance, ER1 only with IR1 and R1; ER2 only with IR2 and R2; etc. You begin your analysis by
filling in those elements of the table that are given to you from the beginning: 
As you can see from the arrangement of the data, we can't apply the 9 volts of ET (total voltage) 
to any of the resistances (R1, R2, or R3) in any Ohm's Law formula because they're in different 
columns. The 9 volts of battery voltage is not applied directly across R1, R2, or R3. However, we
can use our "rules" of series circuits to fill in blank spots on a horizontal row. In this case, we can 
use the series rule of resistances to determine a total resistance from the sum of individual 
resistances: 
Now, with a value for total resistance inserted into the rightmost ("Total") column, we can apply
Ohm's Law of I=E/R to total voltage and total resistance to arrive at a total current of 500 µA: 
Then, knowing that the current is shared equally by all components of a series circuit (another 
"rule" of series circuits), we can fill in the currents for each resistor from the current figure just
calculated: 
Finally, we can use Ohm's Law to determine the voltage drop across each resistor, one column at 
a time:  
Just for fun, we can use a computer to analyze this very same circuit automatically. It will be a
good way to verify our calculations and also become more familiar with computer analysis. First, 
we have to describe the circuit to the computer in a format recognizable by the software. The
SPICE program we'll be using requires that all electrically unique points in a circuit be
numbered, and component placement is understood by which of those numbered points, or 
"nodes," they share. For clarity, I numbered the four corners of our example circuit 1 through 4. 
SPICE, however, demands that there be a node zero somewhere in the circuit, so I'll re-draw the 
circuit, changing the numbering scheme slightly: 
All I've done here is re-numbered the lower-left corner of the circuit 0 instead of 4. Now, I can 
enter several lines of text into a computer file describing the circuit in terms SPICE will
understand, complete with a couple of extra lines of code directing the program to display
voltage and current data for our viewing pleasure. This computer file is known as the netlist in 
SPICE terminology: 
series circuit
v1 1 0
r1 1 2 3k
r2 2 3 10k
r3 3 0 5k
.dc v1 9 9 1
.print dc v(1,2) v(2,3) v(3,0)
.end
Now, all I have to do is run the SPICE program to process the netlist and output the results: 
v1            v(1,2)      v(2,3)      v(3)        i(v1)       
9.000E+00     1.500E+00   5.000E+00   2.500E+00  -5.000E-04
This printout is telling us the battery voltage is 9 volts, and the voltage drops across R1, R2, and 
R3 are 1.5 volts, 5 volts, and 2.5 volts, respectively. Voltage drops across any component in 
SPICE are referenced by the node numbers the component lies between, so v(1,2) is referencing
the voltage between nodes 1 and 2 in the circuit, which are the points between which R1 is 
located. The order of node numbers is important: when SPICE outputs a figure for v(1,2), it
regards the polarity the same way as if we were holding a voltmeter with the red test lead on 
node 1 and the black test lead on node 2. 
We also have a display showing current (albeit with a negative value) at 0.5 milliamps, or 500 
microamps. So our mathematical analysis has been vindicated by the computer. This figure
appears as a negative number in the SPICE analysis, due to a quirk in the way SPICE handles 
current calculations. 
In summary, a series circuit is defined as having only one path for electrons to flow. From this 
definition, three rules of series circuits follow: all components share the same current; resistances 
add to equal a larger, total resistance; and voltage drops add to equal a larger, total voltage. All 
of these rules find root in the definition of a series circuit. If you understand that definition fully, 
then the rules are nothing more than footnotes to the definition.

REVIEW: 

Components in a series circuit share the same current: ITotal = I1 = I2 = . . . In

Total resistance in a series circuit is equal to the sum of the individual resistances: RTotal = 
R1 + R2 + . . . Rn

Total voltage in a series circuit is equal to the sum of the individual voltage drops: ETotal = 
E1 + E2 + . . . En
Parallel Circuit
One connected completely in parallel is known as a parallel circuit. 
Simple Parallel Circuit  
Let's start with a parallel circuit consisting of three resistors and a single battery:  
The first principle to understand about parallel circuits is that the voltage is equal across all
components in the circuit. This is because there are only two sets of electrically common points 
in a parallel circuit, and voltage measured between sets of common points must always be the 
same at any given time. Therefore, in the above circuit, the voltage across R1 is equal to the 
voltage across R2 which is equal to the voltage across R3 which is equal to the voltage across the 
battery. This equality of voltages can be represented in another table for our starting values: 
Just as in the case of series circuits, the same caveat for Ohm's Law applies: values for voltage, 
current, and resistance must be in the same context in order for the calculations to work 
correctly. However, in the above example circuit, we can immediately apply Ohm's Law to each 
resistor to find its current because we know the voltage across each resistor (9 volts) and the 
resistance of each resistor: 
At this point we still don't know what the total current or total resistance for this parallel circuit
is, so we can't apply Ohm's Law to the rightmost ("Total") column. However, if we think 
carefully about what is happening it should become apparent that the total current must equal the
sum of all individual resistor ("branch") currents:
As the total current exits the negative (-) battery terminal at point 8 and travels through the 
circuit, some of the flow splits off at point 7 to go up through R1, some more splits off at point 6 
to go up through R2, and the remainder goes up through R3. Like a river branching into several 
smaller streams, the combined flow rates of all streams must equal the flow rate of the whole
river. The same thing is encountered where the currents through R1, R2, and R3 join to flow back 
to the positive terminal of the battery (+) toward point 1: the flow of electrons from point 2 to 
point 1 must equal the sum of the (branch) currents through R1, R2, and R3. 
This is the second principle of parallel circuits: the total circuit current is equal to the sum of the
individual branch currents. Using this principle, we can fill in the IT spot on our table with the 
sum of IR1, IR2, and IR3: 
Finally, applying Ohm's Law to the rightmost ("Total") column, we can calculate the total circuit
resistance:  
Please note something very impo
rtant here. The total circuit resistance is only 625 Ω: less than 
any one of the individual resistors. In the series circuit, where the total resistance was the sum of 
the individual resistances, the total was bound to be greater than any one of the resistors 
individually. Here in the parallel circuit, however, the opposite is true: we say that the individual 
resistances diminish rather than add to make the total. This principle completes our triad of 
"rules" for parallel circuits, just as series circuits were found to have three rules for voltage, 
current, and resistance. Mathematically, the relationship between total resistance and individual 
resistances in a parallel circuit looks like this: 
The same basic form of equation works for
 any number of resistors connected together in 
parallel, just add as many 1/R terms on the denominator of the fraction as needed to 
accommodate all parallel resistors in the circuit. 
Just as with the series circuit, we can use computer analysis to double-check our calculations. 
First, of course, we have to describe our example circuit to the computer in terms it can 
understand. I'll start by re-drawing the circuit: 
Once again we find that the original numbering scheme used to identify points in the circuit will
have to be altered for the benefit of SPICE. In SPICE, all electrically common points must share
identical node numbers. This is how SPICE knows what's connected to what, and how. In a
simple parallel circuit, all points are electrically common in one of two sets of points. For our 
example circuit, the wire connecting the tops of all the components will have one node number 
and the wire connecting the bottoms of the components will have the other. Staying true to the
convention of including zero as a node number, I choose the numbers 0 and 1: 
An example like this makes the rationale of node numbers in SPICE fairly clear to understand. 
By having all components share common sets of numbers, the computer "knows" they're all
connected in parallel with each other. 
In order to display branch currents in SPICE, we need to insert zero-voltage sources in line (in 
series) with each resistor, and then reference our current measurements to those sources. For
whatever reason, the creators of the SPICE program made it so that current could only be
calculated through a voltage source. This is a somewhat annoying demand of the SPICE 
simulation program. With each of these "dummy" voltage sources added, some new node
numbers must be created to connect them to their respective branch resistors: 
The dummy voltage sources are all set at 0 volts so as to have no impact on the operation of the 
circuit. The circuit description file, or netlist, looks like this: 
Parallel circuit
v1 1 0 
r1 2 0 10k
r2 3 0 2k
r3 4 0 1k
vr1 1 2 dc 0
vr2 1 3 dc 0
vr3 1 4 dc 0
.dc v1 9 9 1
.print dc v(2,0) v(3,0) v(4,0)
.print dc i(vr1) i(vr2) i(vr3)
.end
Running the computer analysis, we get these results (I've annotated the printout with descriptive
labels): 
v1
v(2)        v(3)        v(4)            
9.000E+00     9.000E+00   9.000E+00   9.000E+00
battery       R1 voltage  R2 voltage  R3 voltage
voltage       
v1            i(vr1)      i(vr2)      i(vr3)          
9.000E+00     9.000E-04   4.500E-03
9.000E-03
battery       R1 current  R2 current  R3 current
voltage
These values do indeed match those calculated through Ohm's Law earlier: 0.9 mA for IR1, 4.5 
mA for IR2, and 9 mA for IR3. Being connected in parallel, of course, all resistors have the same 
voltage dropped across them (9 volts, same as the battery). 
In summary, a parallel circuit is defined as one where all components are connected between the 
same set of electrically common points. Another way of saying this is that all components are
connected across each other's terminals. From this definition, three rules of parallel circuits 
follow: all components share the same voltage; resistances diminish to equal a smaller, total 
resistance; and branch currents add to equal a larger, total current. Just as in the case of series 
circuits, all of these rules find root in the definition of a parallel circuit. If you understand that 
definition fully, then the rules are nothing more than footnotes to the definition. 

REVIEW:

Components in a parallel circuit share the same voltage: ETotal = E1 = E2 = . . . En

Total resistance in a parallel circuit is less than any of the individual resistances: RTotal = 
1 / (1/R1 + 1/R2 + . . . 1/Rn)

Total current in a parallel circuit is equal to the sum of the individual branch currents:
ITotal = I1 + I2 + . . . In.







Identifying Electronics Component's 
Circuit Symbols and Functions 
Identifying
 Electronic Component and Symbol is very important rule when fixing mobile 
phones problems..
Be familiar of its circuit symbols below for easy troubleshooting guide.
Every Electronics Component has its own symbols visualizing its function in every circuit
diagram... 
This is a very big help especially when working on hardware problems. This Components 
Symbol is a standard guides when reading or writing service schematic diagram with various 
mobile phone products..
Electronic Components: Symbols & Functions
Circuit Symbols
Circuit symbols are used in circuit diagrams which show how a circuit is connected together. The
actual layout of the components is usually quite different from the circuit diagram. To build a
circuit you need a different diagram showing the layout of the parts on strip board or printed
circuit board. Circuit symbols are used in circuit diagrams, which show how a circuit is
connected together. The actual layout of the components is usually quite different from the
circuit diagram. To build a circuit you need a different diagram showing the layout of the parts
on the printed circuit board. However understanding electronics circuit give you a better
understanding of how to find faults in an electronic circuit
Wires and connections Component Circuit Symbol Function of Component
Wire
To conduct or pass current from one part of a circuit to another. Wires joined
A 'blob' should be drawn where wires are connected (joined), but it is sometimes omitted. Wires
connected to another wire should be staggered slightly to form two T-junctions, as shown. Such
help to transmitted current to other paths Wires not joined
In diagrams it is often necessary to draw wires crossing even though they are not connected. It is
preferred to have the 'hump' symbol as shown because the simple crossing of the wire may be
misread as a join where you have forgotten to add a 'blob'!
Power Supplies Component Circuit Symbol Function of Component
Cell
Supplies electrical energy. The larger terminal indicates the positive (+).A single cell is often
interpreted and called a battery, but a battery is two or more cell joined together. Battery
Supplies electrical energy. A battery is more than one cell. The larger terminal is the positive (+).
And the small terminal is called the negative (
-
)DC supply
+ 
Supplies electrical energy. DC = Direct Current, always flowing in one direction.AC supply
Supplies electrical energy.AC = Alternating Current, continually changing direction of it currents
it is negative and then Positive which alternates again. Fuse
A safety device, which will 'blow' or melt if the current flowing through it exceeds a specified
value. Used as a protection for electrical circuits. Transformer Two coils of wire linked by an iron
core. Transformers are used to step up(increase) and step down (decrease) AC voltages. Energy
is transferred between the coils by the magnetic field in the core. There is no electrical
connection between the coils. Earth(Ground) A connection to earth. For many electronic circuits
this is the 0V (zero volts)of the power supply, but for mains electricity and some radio circuits it
really means the earth. It is also known as ground.
Output Devices: Lamps, Heater, Motor, etc. Component Circuit Symbol Function of Component







SMT Resistor 
SMT Resistor ( Unprinted )
In Mobile Phones 
Surface Mount Molded (SMD) Resistor where not printed with numerical value and it 
is left blank, the problem is that it is too tiny or small to print at..
You can refer only its value by an aide of Schematic Diagram Available for that certain products. Or you
can Identify and check its value by using Resistance Tester...
In Schematic Diagram Its Original value where indicated: For Example: 
Resistances less than 1000 ohms or 1K with ''R'' indicated in the middle indicates a decimal point like:
4R7 = 4.7Ω
2R2 = 2.2Ω
and the rest just like how it does indicated like:
100Ω = 100 ohms
220Ω = 200 ohms 
and up 
4.7K
= 4.7 kiloohms







The Printed SMD Resistor
Zero ohm resistors Surface mounted resistors are printed with numerical values in a code related to that 
used on axial resistors.  
Standard-tolerance Surface Mount Technology (SMT) resistors are marked with a three-digit code, in 
which the first two digits are the first two significant digits of the value and the third digit is the power of 
ten (the number of zeroes). For example:
334 = 33 × 10,000 Ω = 330 kΩ
222 = 22 × 100 Ω = 2.2 kΩ
473 = 47 × 1,000 Ω = 47 kΩ
105 = 10 × 100,000 Ω = 1 MΩ
Resistances less than 100 ohms are written: 100, 220, 470. The final zero represents ten to the power 
zero, which is 1. For example: 
100 = 10 × 1 Ω = 10 Ω
220 = 22 × 1 Ω = 22 Ω 
Resistances less than 10 ohms have 'R' to indicate the position of the decimal point (radix point). For 
example:
4R7 = 4.7 Ω
0R22 = 0.22 Ω
0R01 = 0.01 Ω
Precision resistors are marked with a four-digit code, in which the first three digits are the significant 
figures and the fourth is the power of ten. For example:
1001 = 100 × 10 ohms = 1 kΩ
4992 = 499 × 100 ohms = 49.9 kΩ
1000 = 100 × 1 ohm = 100 Ω
"000" and "0000" sometimes appear as values on surface-mount zero-ohm links, since these have 
(approximately) zero resistance. 







SMD Capacitor 
The types of capacitor which is commonly used in small space circuit like the cellphone uses the
Tantalum type of capacitor, 
Tantalum capacitors are used in smaller electronic devices including portable telephones, pagers, 
personal computers, and automotive electronics.
It also offer smaller size and lower leakage than standard. .
There are two types of Capacitors used in Mobile Phones Circuits,
The Polarized and Non-Polarized Capacitors. 
This are the Capacitors may look like that are being used in mobile phones circuit.







The Polarized Capacitor 
Tantalum Capacitors
 which is polarized, and may be used in DC circuits. Typical values range form 0.1uF
to 470uF.
Standard Tantalum values change in multiples of 10, 22, 33, and 47. Normal Temperature Coefficient 
[TC] for Tantalum Capacitors is +5%.
Polarized capacitors are typically used in large voltage situations, such as DC line filtering to reduce noise
related to uneven voltage levels after rectification from an AC source. Mainly measured in microfarads. 
Polarity is critical to these devices. They are marked with the voltage rating (usually double the circuit 







Non-Polarized Capacitor
Non-polarized are similar to polarized except the plates are similar metal.
Polarized caps are typically used in large voltage situations, such as DC line filtering to reduce noise
related to uneven voltage levels after rectification from an AC source. Mainly measured in microfarads. 
Polarity is critical to these devices. They are marked with the voltage rating (usually double the circuit 
non-polarized caps are typically used in low voltage situations, both AC and DC. Polarity is not critical.
Measured in pico farads typically. 
Decimal multiplier prefixes are in common use to simplify and shorten the notations of quantities such
as component values. 
Capacitance, for example, is measured in Farads, but the Farad is far too large a unit to be of practical 
use in most cases. For convenience, we use sub-multiples to save a lot of figures. For example, instead of
writing 0.000000000001 Farads, we write 1pF (1 picofarad). 
The more common prefixes and the relationships to one another are as follows. 
Abbrev. Prefix Multiply by
or
p
pico
0.000000000001 10-12 
n
nano 0.000000001
10-9 
µ
micro 0.000001
10-6 
m
milli
0.001
10-3 
-
UNIT
1
100 
k
kilo
1000
103 
M
mega 1000000
106 
Units 
1000 pico units
=
1 nano unit 
1000 nano units
=
1 micro unit 
1000 micro units
=
1 milli unit 
1000 milli units
=
1 unit 
1000 units
=
1 kilo unit 
1000 kilo units
=
1 mega unit







Tolerance
All components differ from their marked value by some amount. Tolerance specifies the maximum
allowed deviation from the specified value. Tolerances are normally expressed as a percentage of the
nominal value. 
For example, a component with a marked value of 100 and a tolerance of 5% could actually be any value
between 5% below the marked value (95) and 5% above the marked value (105). 







SMT Transistor 
transistor is a semiconductor device used to amplify and switch electronic signals. It is made of a solid
piece of semiconductor material, with at least three terminals for connection to an external circuit.  
A voltage or current applied to one pair of the transistor's terminals changes the current flowing
through another pair of terminals. Because the controlled (output) power can be much more than the 
controlling (input) power, the transistor provides amplification of a signal. Some transistors are 
packaged individually but many more are found embedded in integrated circuits.
The transistor is the fundamental building block of modern electronic devices, and its presence is
ubiquitous in modern electronic systems. 
Types of transistor







Transistor circuit symbols
There are two types of standard transistors, 
NPN and PNP, with different circuit symbols. The letters
refer to the layers of semiconductor material used to make the transistor. Most transistors used today
are NPN because this is the easiest type to make from silicon. This page is mostly about NPN transistors
and if you are new to electronics it is best to start by learning how to use these first. The leads are 
labeled base (B), collector (C) and emitter (E).
The leads are labeled base (B), collector (C) and emitter (E).
These terms refer to the internal operation of a transistor but they are not much help in understanding
how a transistor is used, so just treat them as labels! 







Diodes - Surface Mounted
In electronics, a 
diode is a two-terminal electronic component that conducts electric current in only one 
direction. The term usually refers to a semiconductor diode, the most common type today, which is a 
crystal of semiconductor connected to two electrical terminals, a P-N junction. A vacuum tube diode, 
now little used, is a vacuum tube with two electrodes; a plate and a cathode.
The most common function of a diode is to allow an electric current in one direction (called the diode's 
forward direction) while blocking current in the opposite direction (the reverse direction). Thus, the 
diode can be thought of as an electronic version of a check valve. This unidirectional behavior is called 
rectification, and is used to convert alternating current to direct current, and extract modulation from
radio signals in radio receivers.
However, diodes can have more complicated behavior than this simple on-off action, due to their 
complex non-linear electrical characteristics, which can be tailored by varying the construction of their 
P-N junction. These are exploited in special purpose diodes that perform many different functions. 
Diodes are used to regulate voltage (Zener diodes), electronically tune radio and TV receivers (varactor
diodes), generate radio frequency oscillations (tunnel diodes), and produce light (light emitting diodes).
Diodes were the first semiconductor electronic devices. The discovery of crystals' rectifying abilities was 
made by German physicist Ferdinand Braun in 1874. The first semiconductor diodes, called cat's whisker
diodes were made of crystals of minerals such as galena. Today most diodes are made of silicon, but
other semiconductors such as germanium are sometimes used.
Types of semiconductor diode in Mobile Phones Circuit
Zener diodes
Diodes that can be made to conduct backwards. This effect, called Zener breakdown, occurs at a 
precisely defined voltage, allowing the diode to be used as a precision voltage reference. In 
practical voltage reference circuits Zener and switching diodes are connected in series and
opposite directions to balance the temperature coefficient to near zero. Some devices labeled 
as high-voltage Zener diodes are actually avalanche diodes (see above). Two (equivalent) Zeners
in series and in reverse order, in the same package, constitute a transient absorber (or Transorb, 
a registered trademark). The Zener diode is named for Dr. Clarence Melvin Zener of Southern
Illinois University, inventor of the device. 







Light-emitting diodes (LEDs)
In a diode formed from a direct band-gap semiconductor, such as gallium arsenide, carriers that 
cross the junction emit photons when they recombine with the majority carrier on the other 
side. Depending on the material, wavelengths (or colors) from the infrared to the near 
ultraviolet may be produced. The forward potential of these diodes depends on the wavelength 
of the emitted photons: 1.2 V corresponds to red, 2.4 V to violet. The first LEDs were red and
yellow, and higher-frequency diodes have been developed over time. All LEDs produce 
incoherent, narrow-spectrum light; "white" LEDs are actually combinations of three LEDs of a 
different color, or a blue LED with a yellow scintillator coating. LEDs can also be used as lowefficiency photodiodes in signal applications. An LED may be paired with a photodiode or
phototransistor in the same package, to form an opto-isolator.







Photodiodes
All semiconductors are subject to optical charge carrier generation. This is typically an undesired
effect, so most semiconductors are packaged in light blocking material. Photodiodes are 
intended to sense light(photodetector), so they are packaged in materials that allow light to
pass, and are usually PIN (the kind of diode most sensitive to light). A photodiode can be used in
solar cells, in photometry, or in optical communications. Multiple photodiodes may be packaged
in a single device, either as a linear array or as a two-dimensional array. These arrays should not
be confused with charge-coupled devices. 







Fuse - Surface Mounted
In electronics and electrical engineering a fuse (from the Latin "fusus" meaning to melt) is a type of 
sacrificial overcurrent protection device. It's essential component is a metal wire or strip that melts 
when too much current flows, which interrupts the circuit in which it is connected. Short circuit, 
overload or device failure is often the reason for excessive current.
A fuse interrupts excessive current (blows) so that further damage by overheating or fire is prevented. 
Wiring regulations often define a maximum fuse current rating for particular circuits. Overcurrent
protection devices are essential in electrical systems to limit threats to human life and property damage. 
Fuses are selected to allow passage of normal current and of excessive current only for short periods.
A fuse was patented by Thomas Edison in 1890 [1] as part of his successful electric distribution system.







SMT Inductors 
An 
inductor or a reactor is a passive electrical component that can store energy in a magnetic field
created by the electric current passing through it. An inductor's ability to store magnetic energy is
measured by its inductance, in units of henries. Typically an inductor is a conducting wire shaped as a 
coil, the loops helping to create a strong magnetic field inside the coil due to Faraday's Law of 
Induction. Inductors are one of the basic electronic components used in electronics where current and
voltage change with time, due to the ability of inductors to delay and reshape alternating currents.
Inductance (
L) (measured in henries) is an effect resulting from the magnetic field that forms around a 
current-carrying conductor which tends to resist changes in the current. Electric current through the 
conductor creates a magnetic flux proportional to the current, and a change in this current creates a
corresponding change in magnetic flux which, in turn, by Faraday's Law generates an electromotive 
force (EMF) that opposes this change in current. Inductance is a measure of the amount of EMF 
generated per unit change in current. For example, an inductor with an inductance of 1 henry produces
an EMF of 1 volt when the current through the inductor changes at the rate of 1 ampere per second. The
number of loops, the size of each loop, and the material it is wrapped around all affect the inductance. 
For example, the magnetic flux linking these turns can be increased by coiling the conductor around a 
material with a high permeability such as iron. This can increase the inductance by 2000 times, although
less so at high frequencies.
Inductors are used extensively in analog circuits and signal processing. Inductors in conjunction with 
capacitors and other components form tuned circuits which can emphasize or filter out specific signal 
frequencies. Applications range from the use of large inductors in power supplies, which in conjunction
with filter capacitors remove residual hums known as the Mains hum or other fluctuations from the 
direct current output, to the small inductance of the ferrite bead or torus installed around a cable to
prevent radio frequency interference from being transmitted down the wire. Smaller inductor/capacitor
combinations provide tuned circuits used in radio reception and broadcasting, for instance. 







Oscillators
An electronic oscillator is an electronic circuit that produces a repetitive electronic signal, often a sine 
wave or a square wave.
A low-frequency oscillator (LFO) is an electronic oscillator that generates an AC waveform at a frequency
below ≈20 Hz. This term is typically used in the field of audio synthesizers, to distinguish it from an audio
frequency oscillator.
Oscillators designed to produce a high-power AC output from a DC supply are usually called inverters.
The waveform generators which are used to generate pure sinusoidal waveforms of fixed amplitude and
frequency are called oscillators.







Crystal oscillator
A crystal oscillator is an electronic circuit that uses the mechanical resonance of a vibrating crystal of
piezoelectric material to create an electrical signal with a very precise frequency. This frequency is 
commonly used to keep track of time (as in quartz wristwatches), to provide a stable clock signal for 
digital integrated circuits, and to stabilize frequencies for radio transmitters and receivers. The most 
common type of piezoelectric resonator used is the quartz crystal, so oscillator circuits designed around
them were called "crystal oscillators".
Quartz crystals are manufactured for frequencies from a few tens of kilohertz to tens of megahertz.
More than two billion (2×109) crystals are manufactured annually. Most are small devices for consumer 
devices such as wristwatches, clocks, radios, computers, and cellphones. Quartz crystals are also found
inside test and measurement equipment, such as counters, signal generators, and oscilloscopes.
Voltage-controlled oscillator
A voltage-controlled oscillator or VCO is an electronic oscillator designed to be controlled in oscillation
frequency by a voltage input. 
The frequency of oscillation is varied by the applied DC voltage, while modulating signals may also be
fed into the VCO to cause frequency modulation (FM) or phase modulation (PM); a VCO with digital 
pulse output may similarly have its repetition rate (FSK, PSK) or pulse width modulated (PWM).
RF and IF Amplifiers and Filters
Electronic filters
 are electronic circuits which perform signal processing functions, specifically to remove 
unwanted frequency components from the signal, to enhance wanted ones, or both. Electronic filters 
can be:
Radio frequency (RF) and microwave filters represent a class of electronic filter, designed to operate on
signals in the megahertz to gigahertz frequency ranges (medium frequency to extremely high
frequency). This frequency range is the range used by most broadcast radio, television, wireless
communication (cellphones, Wi-Fi, etc...), and thus most rf and microwave devices will include some 
kind of filtering on the signals transmitted or received.
Such filters are commonly used as building blocks for duplexers and diplexers to combine or separate
multiple frequency bands.
EMI - ESD Filters
Electrostatic discharge
 (ESD) is the sudden and momentary electric current that flows between two
objects at different electrical potentials caused by direct contact or induced by an electrostatic field. The
term is usually used in the electronics and other industries to describe momentary unwanted currents
that may cause damage to electronic equipment.
ESD is a serious issue in solid state electronics, such as integrated circuits. Integrated circuits are made
from semiconductor materials such as silicon and insulating materials such as silicon dioxide. Either of 
these materials can suffer permanent damage when subjected to high voltages; as a result there are 
now a number of antistatic devices that help prevent static build up.
Below are common types of EMI-ESD protection chips used among various mobile phone's circuit. 
Electromagnetic interference
 (or EMI, also called radio frequency interference or RFI) is a disturbance 
that affects an electrical circuit due to either electromagnetic conduction or electromagnetic radiation
emitted from an external source. The disturbance may interrupt, obstruct, or otherwise degrade or limit 
the effective performance of the circuit. The source may be any object, artificial or natural, that carries 
rapidly changing electrical currents, such as an electrical circuit, the Sun or the Northern Lights.
EMI can be intentionally used for radio jamming, as in some forms of electronic warfare, or can occur
unintentionally, as a result of spurious emissions for example through intermodulation products, and
the like. It frequently affects the reception of AM radio in urban areas. It can also affect cell phone, FM
radio and television reception, although to a lesser extent. 








PART 03
Repair Tools and Test Equipment
Preparing the Proper Tools For Repairing.. 
There are many different variety and Cellphone Repair Tools. A lot companies offers online purchasing
for such certain tools for beginning into business... You can choose which is which for such certain
product. 
In my opinion, when you are into a planning to purchased any tools, Ask some experts first for that 
certain products you are going to buy...
Basically these are the primary tools when you are going to repair cellphones. 
1. Multi-Tester ( Analog/Digital)- Used to measure Voltages, Currents and Resistance in electronic 
components. 
2. Screwdrivers - Used to loosen the phones screws. 
3. Tweezers - used to hold and pick small cellphone component parts. 
4. Soldering iron - used to solder / resolder electronic parts. 
5. Soldering lead - used to bonds Electronic components. 
6. Soldering Flux and Paste - Used to tightened soldering quality.  
7. BGA Rework station - Applied Heat to remove and replaced parts and IC chips. 
8. Re balling Kits - Tools for re balling IC bumps, this composed of Stencil plates, Ball Leads and Spatula 
9. DC Regulated Power Supply- Used to substitute battery voltage when working on hardware 
troubleshooting. 
10. Flashing and Unlocking Device- it is Software Tools that used to unlock and flash mobile phones
programmable circuits. 
11. Cables and Wires - Used as an Interface from PC to cellphones when working on like flashing, 
unlocking and jailbreaking.







Test Equipment
Electronic test equipment is specialized equipment which is used in the testing of electronics. It can be 
utilized in the construction of prototypes and new products, and in maintenance and troubleshooting. A 
huge family of components are included under the umbrella of electronic test equipment, ranging from
simple equipment which is used for routine home repair to sophisticated systems which are used 
exclusively by engineers. Many companies sell used electronic test equipment, which is often far less 
costly than brand new products and just as useful.
All of the devices in the family of electronic test equipment are capable of providing some sort of 
information about an electronic device or circuit. This information can vary from something simple, like
whether or not current is flowing through a circuit, to something complex, like whether or not the 
components of a motherboard are working properly. Electronic test equipment may be passive, or it 
may emit an active signal and register a response, and it can provide specific measurements, or more 
generic data.
Typically, electronic test equipment includes a way to interface with an item being tested, such as a 
probe or clip, and a readout which provides information, ranging from a light which becomes 
illuminated when something is working properly to a readout with measurements. Sophisticated 
equipment may hook up to a computer for the purpose of performing diagnostics, with the equipment 
running several different tests at once and compiling the information in a computer program. This type 
of electronic test equipment is often used in the development of new products, to confirm that they are
safe and to test their limits.
One of the simplest examples of electronic test equipment is a continuity tester, a device which many
people may be familiar with. A continuity tester is used to determine whether a circuit is open or closed. 
If the circuit is open, it indicates a fault or ground, while if it is closed, it is working correctly. Continuity
testers are often used to diagnose home electrical problems, such as a suspected fault in an outlet.
More sophisticated equipment can measure current, resistance, voltage, capacitance, charge, and digital 
circuits. Testgear, as electronic test equipment is sometimes known, may also combine multiple 
functions for convenience. Electricians, phone repair men, and cable installers typically carry testgear for
use in their work, and electronic test equipment is also used by engineers, physicists, and numerous 
other researchers and inventors. 







Opening Tools and Tweezers 
Opening Tools 
Proper opening tools is used to avoid damaged and insure safety in handling mobile phones, which prior 
to avoid risk of scratches and breakage. 







Tweezers
Tweezers are tools used for picking up small objects that are not easily handled with the human hands 
and very useful in surface mounted electronics components. 
Torx and Precision Screwdrivers
Various Mobile phone uses variety of screws mounted to every products.
Do not try to attempt opening any screws that did not match with the screwdriver you have or you
might end up a loosen tread screw, and find it hard enough to open it up...
Selecting and collecting of Torx and precision screwdrivers is highly recommended.
Torx and Precision comes with different code and number..
T6 is the most commonly used in mobile phones. 







Soldering and Desoldering Tools 
Soldering Iron
A soldering iron is a tool normally used for applying heat to two or more adjoining metal parts such that
solder may melt and flow between those parts, binding them securely, conductively and hermetically.
A soldering iron is composed of a heated metal tip and an insulated handle. Heating is often achieved 
electrically, by passing an electrical current (supplied through an electrical cord or battery cables)
through the resistive material of a heating element. Another heating method includes combustion of a 
suitable gas, which can either be delivered through a tank mounted on the iron (flameless), or through
an external flame.
Some soldering irons heat up and cool down in a few seconds, while others may take several minutes.
Soldering LEAD
Soldering lead is used to bond or connect electronic components.
Solder is a fusible metal alloy with a melting point or melting range of 90 to 450 degree Celsius (190 to
840 °F), used in a process called soldering where it is melted to join metallic surfaces. It is especially
useful in electronics . Alloys that melt between 180 and 190 °C (360 and 370 °F) are the most commonly 
used. By definition, using alloys with melting point above 450 °C (840 °F) is called brazing. Solder can
contain lead and/or flux but in many applications solder is now lead free.
While it is possible to do some wiring without soldering connections, soldering is the preferred
approach. Proper soldering is easy with the right tools and techniques. One item that is critical is the 
right solder. DO NOT use the environmentally friendly lead free solders, they don't work worth a damn. 
Even in carefully controlled industrial conditions, lead free solders produce inferior connections. As
much as the politicians backed by environmentalists would like to, they can't legislate metallurgy.
Soldering Paste
Solder paste (or solder cream) is used for connecting the terminations of integrated chip packages with 
land patterns on the printed circuit board. The paste is applied to the lands by printing the solder using a 
stencil, while other methods like screening and dispensing are also used. A majority of defects in mount 
assemblies are caused due to the issues in printing process or due to defects in the solder paste. An
electronics manufacturer needs to have a good idea about the printing process, specifically the paste
characteristics, to avoid reworking costs on the assemblies.
Characteristics of the paste, like viscosity and flux levels, need to be monitored periodically by
performing in-house tests.
Soldering flux
 Soldering flux is just a safe, convenient acid for dissolving the oxide skin off the metal 
you want your solder to wet well. Also dissolves oxide off the liquid solder, making it 
less crusty and therefore more shiny.
"Acid" flux is the stronger class of flux; it has something like hydrochloric acid in 
it. (The paste form has zinc chloride.)
This is good for making difficult oxides dissolve so difficult metals like stainless
steel can be solder-wetted.
But the acid can hang around later trying to corrode the metal it just cleaned for you.
So for electronic stuff we mostly do not use it.
If we do, we scrub it off with things like toothbrush, water, soap, alcohol, baking soda, 
to minimize acid residues.
The flux built into most solder wire is called rosin flux.
I think it is an organic acid (so is vinegar, and tart-tasting "citric acid"),
stuck onto larger molecules that melt only at soldering temperatures.
That is the clear yellow-brownish plaque that sits on the solder's surface when you are
done.
It does the same stuff as acid flux, but it is milder two ways.
It is only strong enough to reduce weakly oxidizable metals like copper, tin, lead, 
silver.
So it is just strong enough for electronics use, but not for soldering to stainless 
steel or iron or anything with chrome or aluminum.
And rosin-flux goes back to its plastic-like solid form after use, so it does not act
very corrosive to the metals later on.
So we do not need to clean it away carefully.
It can be cleaned away if you want to work at it, with brush-scrubbing and the right 
"polar solvents".
"Flux remover" is sold in spray-cans for this. Rubbing alcohol with a dash of dish-soap
sort of works for me.
Try it and see what it looks like.
Soldering Wick
A solder wick (also desoldering wick or desoldering braid) is a tool for removing solder from any solder 
joint. Usually, it is a roll of fine, braided 18 to 42 AWG wire, typically oxygen free copper, which has been
treated with a rosin solder flux.
Close up to a piece of solder wick
Close up to the netting of a solder wick 
To remove solder with it, one presses the wick onto the solder joint to be removed and then heats the
wick portion that is on the connection with the tip of a soldering iron. As the rosin melts onto the wick
and the connection and the solder reaches its melting point the solder rushes via capillary action onto
the clean copper braid. Once everything has melted and the solder fuses with the braided copper, the 
wick is lifted along with the solder and is then cut off and disposed of.







MuItimeter Tester
What is a multimeter tester?
A multitester or multimeter is a device which can be used to gather data about electronics circuits. A 
basic multitester can measure resistance, voltage, current and continuity, while more advanced versions 
may be able to provide additional data. 
Multitesters can be used with the current off or on in most cases, although using the device with the 
current on can sometimes result in damage to the device. This device is hand held, and powered by
batteries. It consists of two probes attached to a central pack which can be digital or analog. The device 
has a series of buttons or switches which can be used to set the type of measurement being performed.
Analog Multitester
Analog types are been able to read manually to its Reading the needle pointing to a gauge, it requires a
some computation when checking some components or where the selector is being set.
Basic Multitester has features like as follows:
Resistance Set Value:
x1,
x10, = multiply by 10
x1K= it means multiply it by 1000
x10K = it means multiply it by 10,000
DC Set Value: from 0.1 to 1000 DC Voltage (Direct Current)
AC Set Value: from 10 to 1000 AC Voltage (Alternating Current)
DC Current Set Value: from 0.5micro ampere to 50 micro ampere
Continuity, the most basic measurement provided by a multitester, determines whether or not a circuit
is complete. For a continuity test, the device is set to "ohms" and AC or DC, depending on the current 
being measured, before the probes on the device are inserted into the circuit. If the circuit is complete,
the readout will measure between 0 and .05 ohms. A measurement of infinity indicates that the circuit is 
open, which means there is a problem. In addition to being used as a basic continuity tester,







Digital Multitester
A digital multimeter is a tool that can measure amps, volts, and ohms. It is different from an analog
meter, which has a needle and a gauge, in that it has a digital light-emitting diode (LED) display. Digital
multimeters are typically more accurate than their old analog counterparts. A digital multimeter can
also have other functions; obviously, the more expensive meters will have more features, but all of them
measure the three basic currents.
Another specification to consider when purchasing a DMM is its range. Regardless of what current is 
being tested, the proper range for that measurement is critical to the accuracy of the measurement. If 
the operator were testing a 12-volt battery, for instance, then a range setting of 0 to 25 volts would
result in a more accurate measurement then a range setting of 0 to 500 volts. Thankfully, many DMM's
have an automatic range feature, which will set the proper range for the circuit being tested 
automatically; all the operator has to do is set the DMM to the proper current being tested, and the 
meter does the rest.
When using a DMM for the first time, it is essential that a person read the instruction manual that 
comes with it. Many DMM's require different steps for taking measurements; this will entail pressing
certain buttons before hooking up the leads, and so on. Most digital multimeters require a battery for 
operation. The instruction manual will most likely specify which type of battery to use. If the battery
type is not specified, alkaline batteries are typically used.
A DMM's maximum reading capacity is extremely important as well. This is the maximum amount of
current that the meter can measure. Usually, the current limit is printed on the face of the DMM. A 
common limit is 10 amps. This means that if the meter is hooked up to a current of 12 amps, the internal 
fuse will pop to prevent damaging the meter. Installing a bigger fuse will not increase the limit of the 
DMM; it will only burn it out permanently. 







SMD Rework Stations 
SMD
(Surface Mounted) Rework station is used to remove, replace, do re-balling BGA(Ball Grid Alley) 
chips and SMD components.
Make sure that the re-balling station are controllable and match to standard temperature for PCB's and
SMD Electronic Components..
It is made of high quality heating material. desoldering and soldering of BGA's are precisely controlled.
Air flow and and Temperature are adjustable in wide range to produce high temperature breeze.
Movable and Replaceable heating heads and very easy to operate...
In the market today there are two types of rework station to choose that match your needs and budget.
The Oldest type is the Standard Filament Type Rework Station and the latest is called Infrared or
IRDA Rework Station.
The Standard Type is Consist of a heating filament which is by then blown by an air to produce a very hot
air temperature.
A technical view of an SMD Rework Station with filament and an air blowing to produce hot temperature
air flow...  
Thermostat adjustment is applied by controlling the heat temperature and the amount of air to flow.
Some types of Filament SMD Rework Station are digital in which the amount of heat and air were 
displayed on a seven segment LED and a push button adjustment were placed.
Infrared or IR SMD Rework Station
This one was designed by an Infrared (IR) Technology. Uses infrared heat wave technology instead of the 
conventional hot air, effectively solves the major problem being encountered when using the hot air
gun, which is the movement of surrounding components while reworking. 
The small amount of Infrared light is amplified to produce a very high temperature Lazer Beam. It 
is digitally designed and can be set automatically. 
A simple overview of an IR SMD Rework Station.
A set example of an IR SMD rework Station. Note: the Author is not endorsing any product.







Adjustable DC Power Supply 
The Dc power Supply can be used to substitute for the Battery Voltage when do live voltage checking on
the PCB circuits... This is being used to trace the power supply line in electronic circuit. 
Linear Adjustable DC Power Supply
 is a equipment with high stability, high reliability, low noise, its 
output voltage or current can be continuously adjusted, and its constant voltage and current can autoconversion. This universal power supply can be used in many different areas, from test of R&D
equipment to test of production lines.
Here's a sample of substituting DC voltage in working cellphone repair tracing B+ line.







Cleaning Tools 
Cleaning kits and tools
 is also necessary when repairing specially when working wet units, corroded or 
rusted PCP boards. Some cleaning tools may found at household or home products and not so hard to
find and prepare it. here's; some cleaning tools that may you find at home.
Brushes can help eliminate and wipe dust on PCB Components. Make sure that the brushes you may use
have low electrostatic ability. 
A cotton cloth or sponge and cotton buds which help to wipe extra solvents, dust,rust and dirt.
Anti Static Spray or liquids used to eliminate water residues and corrosive element in PCB component. 
A 
lacquer thinner is a substitute to anti static cleaner and commonly and widely used by many
technician's.
An
 Ultrasonic Cleaner- A machine that cleans by using a fluid that is vibrated at 20,000 cycles per 
second. When the vibration speed rises above the ultrasonic frequency level, bubbles explode and
generate strong power, cleaning the surfaces and cavities of hard-to-clean objects. 







Reballing Kits 
Re-balling kits are used to repair broken or weak soldered BGA (Ball Grid Array) Chips.
This is very important tools when it comes to hardware problem troubleshooting in various mobile
phones.
This is only being used when an IC or chips was being suspected having fault or causes the problem.
That is because Mobile phones used BGA (ball grid array) solder balls that holds as connection terminal 
of every chips.
There are many kits you can buy via online this days unlike before that most of mobile phone technician
was unable to used this kits for it was not too easy to find and purchase. The process is that they just 
remove the entire solder balls and flattened out the entire bump terminal then replace the chips again. 
It may work but not totally effective as like for my years experience for the soldering process is too
weak and easy to break , because the amount of soldered balls that holds the chips is not strong
enough to hold it.
Although reballing IC's is not that easy for beginners to tackle to. it needs training and proper 
procedures to follow, further we will discuss the easiest way on how to reball IC chips. 
These are the kits you must prepare to be able to proceed in reballing BGA chips.
A Solder Balls
Solder balls have different sizes and measured by diameter, that match on every chips bumps sizes also.
These are the common Soldering Ball diameter ranges for mobile phones chips.
0.05, 0.10, 0.15, 0.20, 0.25mm, 0.30mm, 0.35mm, 0.40mm,0.45mm,0.50mm ,0.55mm ,0.60mm, 
0.65mm, 0.76mm
A BGA Stencil Pattern Plates 
This is being used to properly align the solder ball on every bumps of the chips. 
every chips have different bumps pattern and alignment designs. 
Spatula 
this is used to gathered the solder ball on each holes of the Stencil plates. 
A liquid Flux
A PCB Board Holder
a PCB holder is being used to maintain the accuracy while working soldering and to avoid gripping and
misalignment of solder balls.
A Cleaning liquid
Too many cleaning product offered today that is non flammable.
A lacquer thinner will work, and still widely used for many mobile phone technician. 
A cotton buds 
A Brush 







Working Table Equipment
Additional working table equipment such PC or laptop, table lamp or a magnifying lamp, are very useful
and important for cellphone repair...
A Personal Computer may help for storing support guides and manuals, A PC is also the key tool when it
comes working on software like flashing and unlocking mobile phones. It is also being used to apply any
applications such as Themes, Games, Mp3 music and ring-tones and any other application and add-ons
to the cellphones by using a USB cable wire or blue-tooth device attach to it. A large Memory storage or
Hard disk is also required for storing many software and programs just only for mobile phones.
a table lamp is also require on a working table, it adds visibility when fixing things on a table like 
cellphone because cellphone parts are too small enough to handle.
A magnifying lamp is much better for repairing tiny parts on a cellphone specially when it comes working
on soldering a component and to avoid risk of damaging to other parts.
A microscope is used by many experts in finding problems such as cracks, breakage and damaged PCB's 
(printed circuit board) which is invisible to human eyesight.
If you feel too heavy and have not enough money yet to buy this devices don't worry you can still fix 
cellphones without this equipment. You can still do repair such as, LCD replacements and other 
problems that this devices is not necessarily to apply. Feel free to start from scratch and buy all you can
when you start to have enough money to purchase it.








PART 04
Safety Procedures and Proper Handling of 
Tools and Test Equipment on Cellphone 
Repair 
Safety procedure and proper handling of tool
 is highly observed when working any electronic 
components to avoid risk of unnecessary further damages whatever you are working at. These are the
following thing that always to remind when working any electronic components such as cellphones.







Antistatic Wrist Strap
Wear a Ground Strap. 
Anti static wrist strap is used to avoid risk of electrostatic discharge from a human body to an electronic 
component circuit.
An antistatic wrist strap, ESD wrist strap, or ground bracelet is an antistatic device used to prevent 
electrostatic discharge (ESD) by safely grounding a person working on electronic equipment.
It consists of a stretchy band of fabric with fine conductive fibers woven into it. The fibers are usually
made of carbon or carbon-filled rubber, and the strap is bound with a stainless steel clasp or plate. They
are usually used in conjunction with an antistatic mat on the workbench, or a special static-dissipating
plastic laminate on the workbench surface.
Hand Gloves
You are not just protecting your hand from possible burns or brushes. it also protect the cellphones 
from scratches and possible electrostatic discharge. A cotton cloth made glove is essential to use.
Safety Handling with Rework and Soldering Stations 
Rework and soldering Station is a hot surface devices and can cause fire instantly and extreme burns on
skin when improperly handled. 
Always Observe and Set it in proper heat and air flow amounts. 
Secure a safe place on your table where the rework station is located. Avoid inplacing it that people may
pass or standing by especially kids. 
Always shut it off when not in use and place unto the holder stand to avoid risk of fire and skin burns.







Safety Handling of a Multitester
a multitester may damaged easily when improperly handled. always check ranges when checking
voltages and currents. The depletion yoke of the analog meter may be bust out when overdrive by a 
current to it.







Measuring Resistance
Set the multimeter to Ohms or Resistance (turn meter on if it has a separate power switch). Understand
that resistance and continuity are opposites. The multimeter measures resistance in ohms, it can not 
measure continuity. When there is little resistance there is a great deal of continuity. Conversely, when 
there is a great deal of resistance, there is little continuity. With this in mind, when we measure
resistance we can make assumptions about continuity based on the resistance values measured. 
Observe the meter indication. If the test leads are not in contact with anything, the needle or pointer of
an analog meter will be resting at the left most position. This is represents an infinite amount of 
resistance, or an "open circuit"; it is also safe to say there is the no continuity, or path between the black
and red probes. Careful inspection of the dial should reveal the OHM scale. It is usually the top-most 
scale and has values that are highest on the left of the dial (a sideways "8" for infinity) and gradually
reduce to 0 on the right. This is opposite of the other scales; they have the lowest values on the left and
increase going right.







Measuring Voltage Ac-DC
Set the meter for the highest range provided for AC or DC Volts. Many times, the voltage to be 
measured has a value that is unknown. For this reason, the highest range possible is selected so that the 
meter circuitry and movement will not be damaged by voltage greater than expected. 
Measuring Current by Ampere
Set the meter to the highest AC or DC Amp range supported. If the circuit to be tested is AC but the
meter will only measure DC amps (or vice-versa), stop. The meter must be able to measure the same
mode (AC or DC) Amps as the voltage in the circuit, otherwise it will indicate 0.
Be aware that most multimeters will only measure extremely small amounts of current, in the uA and
mA ranges. 1 uA is .000001 amp and 1 mA is .001 amp. These are values of current that flow only in the
most delicate electronic circuits, and are literally thousands (and even millions) of times smaller than
values seen in the home and automotive circuits that most homeowners would be interested testing. 
Just for reference, a typical 100W / 120V light bulb will draw .833 Amps. This amount of current would
likely damage the meter beyond repair. A "clamp-on" type ammeter would be ideal for the typical
homeowner requirements, and does not require opening the circuit to take measurements (see below). 
If this meter were to be used to measure current through a 4700 ohm resistor across 9 Volts DC, it 
would be done as outlined below:
Safety Handling of a Power Supply 
Power supply may also damaged and cause damaged to a component.. 
Always set it and determine the correct amount of Voltage range to avoid risk of blowing out any
electronic parts. 
Do not short the two alligator clips because the power supply will heat up and may busted out the 
protection fuse. 







How To Use and Read a Multimeter 
Using a multimeter is quite bit difficult for the first time especially the analog type one unlike the digital 
which is more convenient to use for beginners.
Every multimeter have its own user manual accompanied when you purchased it at any electronics store 
in your areas, and each one varies on how each circuits designed but there's always only one thing in 
common,
a Multimeter is is used to measure voltages AC or DC, currents and resistance, continuity and electronics 
components.
Maybe this only a take brief explanation on how to use a multimeter,  
I have an example copy around here using my Sanwa analog multimeter which is made from Japan.  
PARTS OF A MULTIMETER 
1.) Indicator Zero Connector
2.) Indicatot Pointer
3.) Indicator Scale
4.) Continuity Indicating
LED ( CONTINUITY )
7.) Measuring Terminal + 
8.) Measurin Terminal - COM
9.) Series Terminal Capacitor OUTPUT
10.) Panel
11.) Rear Case
5.) Range Selector Switch knob
6.) 0-ohms adjusting knob
/0- centering meter
(NULL meter) adjusting knob
EXPLANATION ABOUT THE SCALE 
1.  Resistance 
(OHMS) scale
2.) DCV, A scale and ACV scale
(10V or more)
3.) 0-centerig (NULL) +/- DCV scale
4.) ACV 2.5 (AC 2.5V) exclusive scale
5.) Transistor DC amplification factor
(hFE) scale
6.) 1.5 baterry test (BATT 1.5V)
7.) OHMS range terminal to terminal current
(Li) scale)
8.) OHMS range terminal to terminal voltage
(LV) scale
9.) Decibel (dB) scale
10.) Continuity Indicating LED
11.0 Mirror: To obtain most accurate readings,
the mirror is deviced to make operator eyes, the indicator pointer, and the indicator pointer reflexed to
the mirror put together in line. 







How to Measure Resistance
Multimeter with selector set to "Ohms". This meter only has a single Ohms range.Multimeter with 
selector set to "Ohms". This meter only has a single Ohms range.
Set the multimeter to Ohms or Resistance (turn meter on if it has a separate power switch). Understand
that resistance and continuity are opposites. The multimeter measures resistance in ohms, it can not 
measure continuity. When there is little resistance there is a great deal of continuity. Conversely, when 
there is a great deal of resistance, there is little continuity. With this in mind, when we measure
resistance we can make assumptions about continuity based on the resistance values measured. 
Observe the meter indication. If the test leads are not in contact with anything, the needle or pointer of
an analog meter will be resting at the left most position. This is represents an infinite amount of 
resistance, or an "open circuit"; it is also safe to say there is the no continuity, or path between the black
and red probes. Careful inspection of the dial should reveal the OHM scale. It is usually the top-most 
scale and has values that are highest on the left of the dial (a sideways "8" for infinity) and gradually
reduce to 0 on the right. This is opposite of the other scales; they have the lowest values on the left and
increase going right.
Connect the black test lead to the jack marked "Common" or "-" 
Connect the red test lead to the jack marked with the Omega (Ohm symbol) or letter "R" near it. 
Set the range (if provided) to R x 100.
Hold the probes at the end of the test leads together. The meter pointer should move fully to the right. 
Locate the "Zero Adjust" knob and rotate so that the the meter indicates "0" (or as close to "0" as 
possible). Note that this position is the "short circuit" or "zero ohms" indication for this R x 1 range of 
this meter. Always remember to "zero" the meter immediately after changing resistance ranges.
Replace batteries if needed. If unable to obtain a zero ohm indication, this may mean the batteries are 
weak and should be replaced. Retry the zeroing step above again with fresh batteries.
Measure resistance of something like a known-good lightbulb. Locate the two electrical contact points 
of the bulb. They will be the threaded base and the center of the bottom of the base. Have a helper hold
the bulb by the glass only. Press the black probe against the threaded base and the red probe against
the center tab on the bottom of the base. Watch the needle move from resting at the left and move
quickly to 0 on the right.
Change the range of the meter to R x 1. Zero the meter again for this range. Repeat the step above. 
Observe how the meter did not go as far to the right as before. The scale of resistance has been changed 
so that each number on the R scale can be read directly. In the previous step, each number represented 
a value that was 100 times greater. Thus, 150 really was 15,000 before. Now, 150 is just 150. Had the R x
10 scale been selected, 150 would have been 1,500. The scale selected is very important for accurate
measurements. With this understanding, study the R scale. It is not linear like the other scales. Values at 
the left side are harder to accurately read than those on the right. Trying to read 5 ohms on the meter
while in the R x 100 range would look like 0. It would be much easier at the R x 1 scale instead. This is 
why when testing resistance, adjust the range so that the readings may be taken from the middle rather
than the extreme left or right sides.
Test resistance between hands. Set the meter to the highest R x value possible. Zero the meter. Loosely
hold a probe in each hand and read the meter. Squeeze both probes tightly. Notice the resistance is 
reduced. Let go of the probes and wet your hands. Hold the probes again. Notice that the resistance is
lower still. For these reasons, it is very important that the probes not touch anything other than the 
device under test. A device that has burned out will not show "open" on the meter when testing if your 
fingers provide an alternate path around the device, like when they are touching the probes. Testing
round cartridge type and older style glass automotive fuses will indicate low values of resistance if the 
fuse is lying on a metal surface when under test. The meter indicates the resistance of the metal surface 
that the fuse is resting upon (providing an alternate path between the red and black probe around the 
fuse) instead of trying to determine resistance through the fuse. Every fuse, good or bad, will indicate
"good".







How to Measure Voltage
Set the meter for the highest range provided for AC Volts. Many times, the voltage to be measured has a
value that is unknown. For this reason, the highest range possible is selected so that the meter circuitry
and movement will not be damaged by voltage greater than expected. If the meter were set to the 50
volt range and a common U.S. electrical outlet were to be tested, the 120 volts present could irreparably 
damage the meter. Start high, and work downward to the lowest range that can be safely displayed.
Insert the black probe in the "COM" or "-" jack.
Insert the red probe in the "V" or "+" jack.
Locate the Voltage scales. There may be several Volt scales with different maximum values. The range 
chosen the selector knob determines which voltage scale to read. The maximum value scale should
coincide with selector knob ranges. The voltage scales, unlike the Ohm scales, are linear. The scale is
accurate anywhere along its length. It will of course be much easier accurately reading 24 volts on a 50
volt scale than on a 250 volt scale, where it might look like it is anywhere between 20 and 30 volts.
Test a common electrical outlet. In the U.S. you might expect 120 volts or even 240 volts. In other 
places, 240 or 380 volts might be expected. Press the black probe into one of the straight slots. It should
be possible to let go of the black probe, as the contacts behind the face of the outlet should grip the
probe, much like it does when a plug is inserted. Insert the red probe into the other straight slot. The 
meter should indicate a voltage very close to 120 or 240 volts (depending on type outlet tested). 
Remove the probes, and rotate the selector knob to the lowest range offered, that is greater than the 
voltage indicated (120 or 240). Reinsert the probes again as described earlier. The meter may indicate
between 110 and as much as 125 volts this time. The range of the meter is important to obtain accurate 
measurements. If the pointer did not move, it is likely that DC was chosen instead of AC. The AC and DC 
modes are not compatible. The correct mode MUST be set. If not set correctly, the user would
mistakenly believe there was no voltage present. This could be deadly. Be sure to try BOTH modes if the 
pointer does not move. Set meter to AC volts mode, and try again. Whenever possible, try to connect at
least one probe in such a way that it will not be required to hold both while making tests. Some meters
have accessories that include alligator clips or other types of clamps that will assist doing this.
Minimizing your contact with electrical circuits drastically reduces that chances of sustaining burns or 
injury.







How to Measure Current Amperes
Determine if AC or DC by measuring the voltage of the circuit as outlined above.
Set the meter to the highest AC or DC Amp range supported. If the circuit to be tested is AC but the
meter will only measure DC amps (or vice-versa), stop. The meter must be able to measure the same
mode (AC or DC) Amps as the voltage in the circuit, otherwise it will indicate 0.
Be aware that most multimeters will only measure extremely small amounts of current, in the uA and
mA ranges. 1 uA is .000001 amp and 1 mA is .001 amp. These are values of current that flow only in the
most delicate electronic circuits, and are literally thousands (and even millions) of times smaller than
values seen in the home and automotive circuits that most homeowners would be interested testing. 
Just for reference, a typical 100W / 120V light bulb will draw .833 Amps. This amount of current would
likely damage the meter beyond repair. A "clamp-on" type ammeter would be ideal for the typical
homeowner requirements, and does not require opening the circuit to take measurements (see below). 
If this meter were to be used to measure current through a 4700 ohm resistor across 9 Volts DC, it 
would be done as outlined below:
Insert the black probe into the "COM" or "-" jack. 
Insert the red probe into the "A" jack. 
Shut off power to the circuit.
Open the portion of the circuit that is to be tested (one lead or the other of the resistor). Insert the
meter in series with the circuit such that it completes the circuit. An ammeter is placed IN SERIES with 
the circuit to measure current. It cannot be placed "across" the circuit the way a voltmeter is used
(otherwise the meter will probably be damaged). Polarity must be observed. Current flows from the 
positive side to the negative side. Set the range of current to the highest value.
Apply power and adjust range of meter downward to allow accurate reading of pointer on the dial. Do
not exceed the range of the meter, otherwise it may be damaged. A reading of about 2 milliamps should
be indicated since from Ohm's law I = V / R = (9 volts /(4700 Ω  = .00191 amps = 1.91 mA.
If you're measuring the current consumed by the device itself, be aware of any filter capacitors or any
element that requires an inrush (surge) current when switched on. Even if the operating current is low 
and within the range of the meter fuse, the surge can be MANY times higher than the operating current 
(as the empty filter capacitors are almost like a short circuit). Blowing the meter fuse is almost certain if
the DUT's (device under test) inrush current is many times higher than the fuses rating. In any case, 
always use the higher range measurement protected by the higher fuse rating (if your meter has two 
fuses , or  ust be careful.







How to Check Basic Electronic 
Components 
How to Check Basic Electronic Components Using a Multi-
Meter
Basic electronic components such as resistors, capacitors, diodes and transistors are widely used
in any electronic devices and gadgets. Knowing how to conduct a test on this components using
a multimeter would give you an idea on how to trouble shoot and repair any defective cellphones 
or electronic equipments at home. Below are some basic D.I.Y. regarding proper testing of this 
components using a multimeter.







How to Check Resistors?
Read the indicated code value indicated in Schematic Diagram then select the Ohm-scale within but not
way below the indicated value. A resistor is good if its resistance is close to the indicated value.
Tolerance should be considered with the ohmmeter reading. While, no resistance reading at all on the 
ohmmeter scale settings means that the resistor is open. A zero resistance reading on all ohmmeter 
scale settings means that the resistor is shorted. 







How to Check Capacitors?
In most cases, a capacitor fails due to the deterioration of the dielectric material between its
plate.Defective capacitors can have an internal shorted terminals, excessive leakage and degradation of
capacitance meter. For an electrolytic capacitor (capacitors with polarity), short the terminal capacitor 
to discharge it prior to testing.
To test a capacitor, set the multimeter to Rx10 or Rx1K scale. Connect the tester negative probe to the
capacitor positive terminal and the positive probe to the negative terminal.
A good indication for electrolytic capacitor shows the meter needle deflecting towards zero and moves
back again to infinite resistance position. 
For ceramic, Mylar and other capacitor with a capacitance with less than 1.0 uF, the meter will not
deflect at all. 
A defective indication for an electrolytic capacitor shows that the meter will rest on zero and remain
stationary at a point which is an indication that the capacitor is shorted.







How to Check Diodes?
Set the multimeter knob to any of the resistance position (x1, x10, x1K or 10K ohm ).Connect the
positive probe to the anode and the negative probe to the cathode. Then connect the positive probe to
the cathode and the
negative probe to the anode of the diode. A good indication in the first procedure will show the meter 
deflected very little or may not deflect at all.
And in the second procedure, the meter will deflect towards zero.The actual resistance reading is the
forward resistance of the diode. 
A defective indication shows that the meter won't deflect at all even when the probes are reversed. Or
the meter deflects at the same time or almost the same resistance reading for both steps.







How to Check Transistors:
Bipolar transistors are usually checked out of a circuit by means of an ohmmeter. When it is desired to
check for the resistance across the transistor emitter and collector, NPN or PNP, ohmmeter probes may
be connected either way. A good transistor will show above a reading above 1000 ohm.
How to determine if it is NPN or PNP transistor?
To determine the correct terminal of the transistors, set the range selector to x 1 or 10 ohm.Connect the 
positive probe to the emitter and the negative probe to the base of the transistor. Note the reading
interchange the connection of the probes to the leads of the transistor.
Base your conclusion on the table:
POSITIVE PROBE TO: -----NEGATIVE PROBE TO: -----RESISTANCE READING-- CONCLUSION:
Emitter------- -Base---------- Less than 150 ohm ------Transistor is NPN
Base --------------Emitter --------Infinity ----------------Transistor is NPN
POSITIVE PROBE TO:
 NEGATIVE PROBE TO:
RESISTANCE READING:
CONCLUSION:
-Emitter------------Base ---------Infinity
---------------- Transistor is PNP
Base --------------- Emitter --- - Less than 150 ohm ------- Transistor is PNP
Some defective indications of transistors: Resistance between any pair of the terminals is less than 10
ohms, means that the transistor is shorted. Resistance between base and emitter or base collector for
both the forward and reverse application of ohmmeter probes is infinity (meter needle don't deflect),
means that the transistor is open. Transistors overheats (except power transistors) during normal
operating condition means that the transistor is shorted.







How to Check an LED ( Light Emitting 
Diode)
Set the Muti-meter to x1 connect the positive probe to cathode and the negative probe to anode. The 
good and working LED will then light up or glow, a busted LED will not. 







How to Check a Coil?
Set the multimeter to X1 a good and working coil have a reading approximately point to zero ohms, 
without any reading means the coil is open or busted. 







How to Check a Fuse?
A blown SMD Fuse is not visible to our naked eye, just set the multi-meter to x1 and put both test probe
to both end side of the fuse. A full reading here to zero or continuity check is full. without any reading
means the fuse is already busted. 







How to Check IC chips (Integrated Circuits)?
IC Chips is hard to determine faulty by using only a multi-meter, some advance equipment like the one 
that the manufacturer used during their productions. However; you can determine a faulty chips by
some few experiences when it comes to troubleshooting, One techniques is that by comparing two
same components from one another. like for example; if one chips is suspected to be faulty, then by
replacing it with a good and working same chips, you can now determine if the said chips got a problem. 
It is a trial and error method at first; but as long as your experience and knowledge skills increases, you
can determine it more quickly and accurately.








PART 05
How to Read Cellphone's Schematic 
Diagrams 
Schematic Diagram
 is a layout of symbols and connection of every electronic components circuit where
serve as a guide on how the circuit function or work.
Reading Schematic Diagrams is not a hard task to do, schematic diagrams is a big help to cellphonerepair 
especially when working on or tracing lines and finding where a particular components mounted on a 
PCB board. 
Such schematic diagrams is very useful and very important guide in every cellphone technician. It is 
equivalent to a handbook.
Learn how to read it. At first you might think that it is hard to do so, You are not going to be an experts
and master in cellphone repair as long as you don't know how to read it. Many among cellphone
repairman exist nowadays that do not have any knowledge about reading it. They always rely on finding
free solutions over the internet and forums. Those people who give free solutions are those people who
knows how to read a schematic diagram. Now here's your chance to learn and do not rely unto others, 
and be an expert and master troubleshooter when it comes to hardware problems.
Okay here's a step on how to read a schematic diagrams. 
1. You need to download service Schematic Diagrams, as many or complete package in every cellphone 
products. each unit of a product have specific service diagrams. 
2. You need to download Adobe Acrobat Reader so that you can open the schematic file which is in PDF 
format. 
Now assuming that you already have those I've mention above; Let's try to open up one file like for
example we are going to open a schematic diagram of Nokia N70. 
here's what it looks like when scrolling down all the pages.
Let's take a little brief on each page for simple understanding..
A. page 1, In this page where you can find and Identify the whole assembly of the unit.
this is also where to find the table of contents of the entire circuit's layouts. 
B. page 2, In this page is a block diagram of an RF and Baseband: this is a basic explanation of the entire 
connection of a circuit. It was called a block diagram for it is being drawed into blocks.
What is a BASE BAND?
In telecommunications and signal processing, baseband is an adjective that describes signals and
systems whose range of frequencies is measured from zero to a maximum bandwidth or highest signal 
frequency; it is sometimes used as a noun for a band of frequencies starting at zero. It can often be 
considered as synonym to lowpass, and antonym to passband, bandpass or radio frequency (RF) signal.
What is a RF?
Radio frequency (RF) is a frequency or rate of oscillation within the range of about 3 Hz to 300 GHz. This 
range corresponds to frequency of alternating current electrical signals used to produce and detect 
radio waves. Since most of this range is beyond the vibration rate that most mechanical systems can
respond to, RF usually refers to oscillations in electronics circuits.
C. page 3
, here we can find the system connectors and parts of the unit that correspond to the user or
outer parts such us headset, charger and USB connection interfaces.
D. page 4,
 The power management circuit, audio codecs and drivers and the interfaces like the 
microphone, earpiece, mouthpiece, vibrator, sim-card, battery connections. This is the Power Supply 
Area of the entire circuits.
E. page5, Charging Control and Flash Interface Circuit. 
F. page 6,
 This is the part of the circuit where the all application is being process, Flash IC and
memories, this also where application and firmware are being stored.
G. page 7,
 his the Central processing of the unit (CPU) like the personal computer (PC) cellphone also
have a CPU to process applications and software.
H. page 8, A Frequency Modulation (FM Radio) circuit. 
I. page 9,
This page is the part of an LCD Display and Keypad circuit.
J. page 10,
 this is the RF components circuit, In this page the RF or the process of a network during
Transmitting and Receiving Radio Frequency signals.
K. page 11,
 This the structure of the whole PCB Board and all the components mounted in the entire
circuit.
this is also where pattern of
test-points for check-up during production and servicing.
at the right side is the pattern of waves of frequencies as a guide by using an oscilloscope, 
frequency generator and spectrum analyzer.
L. page 12,
 This is where the table of each and every components is mounted on the PCB board written
in codes, like Rxxx - resistorr, Cxxx - Capacitor and etc.
The right side is the scale pattern of every components for quick and easy finding it.
that was only the brief explanation of every pages of an Schematic Diagram. Further we will tackle on it 
even deeper. 







How to Identify Component Symbols on
Schematic Diagram 
Identifying with Symbols on Schematic Diagram is very easy task, it's just like reading 
ABC's on English alphabet. 
Since we are talking about mobile phone's circuit here, we are going to tackle only on its symbols being
used herein, unlike in some major electronics components which have a lot of component symbols.
Mostly, because Cellphone circuits have a lot of Integrated Circuit ( IC ) meaning the circuits is being
compact into a smaller circuit to produce, and save a very small space to put a huge circuit connection
into one tiny piece of circuits.
I have inserted the Layout of each component and how it's look's like mounted on a PCB ( Printed Circuit 
Board) for better and easiest way of understanding.
Resistor 
Capacitor 
Transistor 
Diodes 
Coils 
Fuse 
Power Keys and Keypads , Mouthpiece, Earpiece and Ringtone Speaker
Battery Cell 
Clock Crystal Oscillator 
RF Filters 
Electromagnetic Interference and Electrostatic Discharge Filters
DC-DC Converters, Drivers and Regulators 
Integrated Circuit IC Chips 







How to Identify Resistor's Symbols and 
Layout 
Resistor Component's Symbol and Layout
The symbol of a Resistor, as you can see that it is being label started with letter 
''R'' meaning for 
Resistance and followed by a ''Mounted Code'', that code is the number of that resistor for easy
identification and search reason on the whole structure of a PCB board. Then, also ob-course the
Resistance Value for test and check up procedures, like for example ''R4400 = 47K'' it means that 
Resistor number 4400 connected on that particular circuit's value is 47K or 47000 ohms. In that way we
can easily trace and test that component using a Multi-meter tester.
There are two types shown in here, The first one is Fixed Resistor and the other one with a line across to
it is called Thermistor or Thermal Resistor.
Thermistor
 or Thermal resistor is a variable Resistor, meaning it's resistance value is changeable.
Thermal defines to heat temperature, it is being change by a current or voltage flowing across to it. It
also have a capability to shut off when a voltage or current drive it to a maximum temperature level.
While the Fixed Resistor, remains steady to it's resistance value.







How to Identify Capacitor's Symbols and 
Layout 
Identifying Capacitors Symbol and Layout
There are two types of capacitors, the
 Polarized and the Non-polarized. The Polarized is indicated 
with ''+'' positive and ''-'' negative, meaning this cannot be change into its mounting position from a 
certain connection of a circuit polarity, The ''+'' positive is for the voltage supply line B+ only and the '' - ''
negative is for the grounding lines. The capacitor will blown up if putting it into a non desired polarity
position. 
Non-polarized capacitor is a non-polar or without polarity meaning its position can be change without 
damaging it.
In Schematic Diagram it is stated as letter ''C'' stands for Capacitance then a mounting code and
Capacitance value.
The Polarized indicated with desired maximum voltage value. like for example
C7597 1000mF_14V , 
the ''14V'' is the desired maximum voltage for that said capacitor.
While the Non-polarized labeled without desired voltage. 
example: C2567 22pF







How to Identify Transistor's Symbols and 
Layout 
Identifying Transistor's Symbol and Layout
There are two types of standard transistors, 
NPN and PNP, with different circuit symbols. The letters
refer to the layers of semiconductor material used to make the transistor. Most transistors used today
are NPN because this is the easiest type to make from silicon. 
A transistor is a semiconductor device used to amplify and switch electronic signals.
The transistor is the fundamental building block of modern electronic devices, and its presence is
ubiquitous in modern electronic systems.
It is labeled with letter ''V'' and then the mounting code and product code.
The leads are labeled base (B), collector (C) and emitter (E) in some schematics while in cellphone 
schematics is not, just be familiar with each leads. 
What is a MOSFET?
Simple brief explanation, In mobile phones its is being used as a Switching circuit to the Camera Flash 
interface. It holds the large amount of voltage and then feed to camera flash light when it is being click 
to take a picture. That is why the Flash of the camera give a more bright light and speed in just a matter 
of blink of an naked eye..
The metal-oxide-semiconductor field-effect transistor (MOSFET, MOS-FET, or MOS FET) is a device 
used for amplifying or switching electronic signals.
A Power MOSFET is a specific type of metal oxide semiconductor field-effect transistor (MOSFET) 
designed to handle large amounts of power.
Its main advantages are high commutation speed and good efficiency at low voltages.
The power MOSFET is the most widely used low-voltage (i.e. less than 200 V) switch. It can be found in 
most power supplies, DC to DC converters and low voltage controller circuits.
There are many types Field effect transistor, this is the one is commonly used in mobile phone circuit. 







How to Identify Diodes Symbols and Layout
Identifying Diode Symbol and Layout on 
Printed Circuit Board
There are many types of diodes, it is being used as a voltage and current rectifier,stabilizer,converter.
In electronics, a diode is a two-terminal electronic component called Anode and Cathode that conducts
electric current in only one direction. 
The below picture shows a diode and a zener diode, A Zener diode is a type of diode that permits 
current not only in the forward direction like a normal diode, but also in the reverse direction if the
voltage is larger than the breakdown voltage known as "Zener knee voltage" or "Zener voltage".
It is being labeled in letter "V" means voltage rectifier in a circuit the mounting code and the product 
code.
A simple brief explanation,
Stabilize current and voltage - to maintain the flow of a current and voltage,
Rectifier - disallow unwanted current or voltage and purify it,
Converter - converts from AC voltage to DC voltage.







Light Emitting Diode
It is also a diode that can produce light. its like a light bulb. 
A light-emitting diode (LED) is a semiconductor light source. LEDs are used as indicator lamps in many
devices, and are increasingly used for lighting. 
It also have Anode and Cathode terminal leads.
The LED is based on the semiconductor diode. When a diode is forward biased (switched on), electrons
are able to recombine with holes within the device, releasing energy in the form of photons. This effect
is called electroluminescence and the color of the light (corresponding to the energy of the photon) is 
determined by the energy gap of the semiconductor.







PhotoDiode Photo Cell
A photodiode is a type of photodetector capable of converting light into either current or voltage, 
depending upon the mode of operation.
Meaning it has the ability to convert light energy into a voltage or current.
In mobile phone circuit it is being used as a sensor for a certain application of the device like for
example, it switch the Camera Flash off when during daytime or when it detects that there is a light
source on that certain area.
Photo Diode is widely used in a solar panels to produce free power energy from the sun light. 
Photodiodes are similar to regular semiconductor diodes except that they may be either exposed (to
detect vacuum UV or X-rays) or packaged with a window or optical fiber connection to allow light to
reach the sensitive part of the device. 







How to Identify Coil Symbols and Layout
Identifying Coil Symbols and Layout on Schematic Diagram.
The symbol of a coil (inductor) is just like a wave lines which emphasized that there is a 
winding component on that circuit which means that the coil is connected in there. In cellphone circuit 
many coil is being used in B+ voltage filtering to avoid saturated voltage and current.
coils are easy to identify in an schematic diagram for they are form into a wave line. It is labeled with 
letter "L" which means Inductance.
In cellphone circuit coils are also prone to be easily damaged like when it is being used in B+ line 
filtering. It will be blown out or end up busted if some short circuit occurs.







How to Identify Integrated Circuit 
Symbols and Layout
Identifying Integrated Circuit Symbols and Layout
Integrated circuits, also called "chips", are electronic circuits where all the components (transistors, 
diodes, resistors and capacitors) has been manufactured in the surface of a thin substrate of 
semiconductor material.
Integrated circuit is designed to save extra space on modern electronics.
In electronics, an integrated circuit (also known as IC, microcircuit, microchip, silicon chip, or chip) is a 
miniaturized electronic circuit (consisting mainly of semiconductor devices, as well as passive
components) that has been manufactured in the surface of a thin substrate of semiconductor material. 
Integrated circuits are used in almost all electronic equipment in use today and have revolutionized the
world of electronics.
In mobile phones it is packed with each desired certain applications purpose like
Power Management, Baseband Processor, Application Processor , Memory Storage, Audio Codecs, 
Bluetooth and Wi-Fi Ciruits. 
Some large pack chips composed of many circuits and certain application both in-place in one packaging.
IC Chips are very delicate to handle with and troubleshoot if found faulty, it needs a little bit deep 
knowledge and understanding on how that chips works on a particular circuit. Experience is the best
tool to handle with it.







How to Identify DC to DC Voltage Drivers,
Regulators and Converters Symbols and
Layout 
Identifying DC to DC Voltage Drivers, Regulators and
Converters Symbols and Layout
DC to DC Regulators and Converters are packed in a tiny BGA (ball grid array) chips.
It used to convert, regulate and drives a certain amount of current-voltage.
It has the ability to stabilize, reduce or step up a voltage that feeds towards it. 
in mobile phones it has a digital signal that been able to switch it on and off.
like for example it switch the LED lamp that used to light up the Display Screen while the cellphone is in
used status and turn it off when the cellphone is not in use or at the sleep mode.
There are various kind and designed of these said components which according to each every purpose 
to the circuit. Sizes and bumps leads also have may differ with each other.  
This chips may also damaged cause by a corrosive element or if a short circuit occurs. 







How to Identify EMI-ESD Symbols and
Layout 
Identifying EMI-ESD Symbols and Layout on schematic 
diagram and PCB board
EMI-Electromagnetic Interference and ESD-Electrostatic Discharge is pack in tiny chips called by many
technician as Crystal IC for it glows like a crystal glass. 
EMI-ESD filter are used to protect a certain circuit from hazardous Electromagnetic Interference and
Electrostatic Discharge.
Electromagnetic Interference cause by elecromagnetic machines like like a chainsaw, an electric blower
and other things that has high frequency levels.
Electrostatic Discharge (ESD)- a human body is a potential source of electrostatic and can cause damage, 
especially to semiconductor devices when touching it.
EMI-ESD Filters can be easily breakdown and busted when those two elements occurs. It often used in
Keypads circuit, Display circuit, USB (Universal Serial Bus)Interface circuit, Removable Flash Memory
Devices circuit and other Interface that is prone to ESD and EMI hazards. 







How to Identify RF Filter Symbols and
Layout 
Identifying RF Filter Symbols and Layout
RF filters of all types are required in a variety of applications from audio to RF and across the whole 
spectrum of frequencies. As such RF filters form an important element within a variety of scenarios, 
enabling the required frequencies to be passed through the circuit, while rejecting those that are not 
needed.
The ideal filter, whether it is a low pass, high pass, or band pass filter will exhibit no loss within the pass 
band, i.e. the frequencies below the cut off frequency. Then above this frequency in what is termed the 
stop band the filter will reject all signals.
Basic types of RF filter
There are four types of filter that can be defined. Each different type rejects or accepts signals in a 
different way, and by using the correct type of RF filter it is possible to accept the required signals and
reject those that are not wanted.
The four basic types of RF filter are:
* Low pass filter
* High pass filter
* Band pass filter
* Band reject filter
As the names of these types of RF filter indicate, a low pass filter only allows frequencies below what is 
termed the cut off frequency through. This can also be thought of as a high reject filter as it rejects high
frequencies. Similarly a high pass filter only allows signals through above the cut off frequency and
rejects those below the cut off frequency. A band pass filter allows frequencies through within a given 
pass band. Finally the band reject filter rejects signals within a certain band. It can be particularly useful
for rejecting a particular unwanted signal or set of signals falling within a given bandwidth. 







How to Identify Battery Cell Symbols and 
Layout 
Identifying Battery Cell Symbols and Layout
A back up battery cell or button cell is being used in cellphones circuit to back up the digital clock crystal 
oscillator. It used to maintain the clock at its real time status.
Its like when removing the battery of the mobile phone wont reset the settings of the digital clock that is 
being installed on a phone. Some phones without battery back-up like the old ones need to reset again
after removing and replacing the battery. Its a big help to a digital circuits such high tech mobile phones
circuit.
A battery cell is have two lead terminal which is negative and positive voltage output.
The metal can case of this type of battery is its positive (+) terminal, and the negative (-) terminal is the 
cap.
The negative is connected to a ground lines of a circuit while the positive is feed to a clock oscillator 
circuit. It has low power output voltage range from 1.5 volts to 3.5 volts. In mobile phones used about 
3.3voltage output.
They are compact and have long life. They are usually a primary single cell with a nominal voltage
between 1.5 and 3 volts. Common anode materials are zinc or lithium. Common cathode materials are 
manganese dioxide, silver oxide, carbon monofluoride, cupric oxide or oxygen from the air. Mercuric 
oxide batteries were formerly a common battery type but have been withdrawn from marketing due to
their mercury content.
A back up battery may also damaged when due to degradation, corrosion and losses its voltage when
being shorted or by liquids like water;
A damaged battery cell can be easily notice when a leakage occurs, its liquid chemical will flow out and
can cause damages to a nearby components.
In a mobile phones you can determine when the back-up battery is weak, when try to set the time of the 
clock, then power it off and by removing the battery for a while and put it back again, when the clock 
stayed at its time where you set, it means that back-up battery is still working but, if it ask you to set the
clock again it means that the back-up battery is not working. 







How to Identify Power Switch ,
Mouthpiece, Earpiece and Ringtones 
Speakers User Interface Symbols and
Layout 
Identifying User Interfaces Components such as Power Switch, 
Microphone, Earpiece and Ring-tone speakers and Layouts On 
Schematic Diagram
User Interface Components are those components 
such as power switch, keypads, vibrator , a micro phone such as mouthpiece, speakers like earpiece
and ring tones speaker. These components are also important to familiarized with , for these are 
commonly prone to be easily got damaged. when it comes to hardware troubleshooting, in Nokia 
service manual or Schematic diagram it is marked for easy guides while some other various mobile 
phone products was not. 
In the symbols below the power switch labeled as power key, and also likewise the keypad component 
symbols that is a circle with two pointing lines insides labeled as keyboard. 
In mobile phones there is one microphone and two micro speakers being used; First is the microphone 
that receive
the voice to transmit, 
the two micro speakers are examples on the picture below, 
the first one is for the hearing which is called the earpiece, that is the one that send the voice to hear, 
the second one is for the ring-tones speaker, it is that send the tones and tell that someone is calling or 
sending a message. Familiarizing the uses and works of these three micro speakers on a circuit is a big
help for troubleshooting. 







How to Identify Clock Crystal Oscillator
Symbols and Layout
Identifying Clock Crystal Oscillator Symbols and Layout
Oscillator
An electronic component circuit that have the ability create real time clock signal. a vibrating crystal that
made by so-called piezoelectric material produce a maintained and sustained frequency such as applied 
into real time clock like quartz wristwatches.. This one is being used to maintain the clock system in a 
digital circuit and maintain Radio Frequency transmitters and Receivers.
It labeled sleep clock oscillator or just clock oscillator in schematic diagrams.
In Cellphones if the clock oscillator is faulty it results on not powering the phone. The phone is dead,
because as stated above that oscillator supports on digital radio frequencies circuitry. 







How to Identify Fuse Symbol and Layout 
Identifying Fuse Symbols and Layout
Fuse
A fuse is the component used to protect from sudden arise of the desired amount of currents and
voltages into a certain circuit. The fuse will be blown out if a certain circuit have a very low resistance or 
shorted. a Fuseo is made by a metal wire that can be easily busted if a high current or voltage will flow 
on it.
It is labeled letter "F" means a fusible device then a product code or number. 
A fuse is often used in a charging circuit of any mobile phones. The phone will indicate no charging
reaction if a fuse is already blown. 







How to Find Component Parts on PCB Board
A certain components parts is easy to find with an aide of schematic diagrams. In Nokia Phones finding it 
was been so easy for they provide a complete and accurate component data on their Schematic
Diagrams. While other various mobile phone don't have. Some cellphone technicians find it hard to fix
some of mobile phone products for they don't provide schematic diagrams to be available, but many
experts and masters can do the job even without schematic diagrams. Experts can rely on their deep 
knowledge on electronics components and circuits, many of them where electronic engineers and also
many of them where professionally skilled by experience and mastered for years. You can be one of 
them if you follow their instinct but before that they all started from scratch. We are all start from
scratch.
Now, let's take up a very simple method on how to find certain electronic component's location where 
it is being mounted on a particular PCB Board layouts.
Here's an example of Nokia N70 schematic diagram, Download it here if you haven't a copy yet, and
make sure you have Adobe Reader installed on your computer to be able to open it.
If you already have a copy of this schematic diagram, open it and scroll it down to the bottom page.
In the bottom page which is the last page you may found this Component Finder Page. 
see picture below: 
On the right side you may find the table of components which is listed in codes like for example, 
Resistors starts with letter "R" then "mounting code" . next to it on the left is the "pattern codes" which
is means the spot point which is scaled by letters and numbers on the PC Board,
On the right side of the page is the layout of all of components with respective
 codes mark on it. Each 
component mounted in horizontal and vertical positions.
In both sides on the PCB layout is being scaled by letters and numbers, this is were the 
pattern codes
from the first picture above being produce by combining the letter and number to make the mapping
spot point.
The spot point of where these letter and number meets across each other, is the exact location where 
that certain component is being mounted.
Now let's take a little bit exercise on how to use this methods..
Okay, assuming that we are looking for a certain components on a PCB board.
Let say that we are going to find the 2n2 valued capacitor on RF Section for that phone is having a 
problem of network signal.
now scroll up the page to RF Section which is on page 9 and find these two 2n2 (2.2nanofarad) valued 
capacitor see guide picture below; Just remember and get the Mounting Code for it is the code were
going to use as a guide to to the component finder table of components.
Then after finding it scroll back to the Component Finder page Table of components, then find it on the 
lists of the components codes like "C7524 is on B9" and "C7573 is on A6"
the next thing again you have to do is to remember and get that code then proceed to the Component 
Layouts. and scale the spot point of "letter B and 9" then letter "A and 6" on the scaled on the opposite 
sides.
See picture below 
The last part is to scroll it up on the whole component layout on the upper page 10 or on your PC board
then spot and mark that component where it is being mounted.
There you go you just found it! congratulation! 
Practice it more often, so that you can be familiarize on each component or parts for that certain 
product. The more often you do it, the more chances you will mastered it. sooner, you can work it alone
without even using the schematic diagram anymore. 








PART 06
How To Solder SMD Components Manually by 
Hand 
Proper Soldering and De-soldering Methods and Techniques on Surface Mount Components
Soldering is the process of using a metal alloy with a low melting temperature (solder) to Fuse the the
electrical contacts of a component to the pads of a circuit board. Proper soldering maximizes the 
strength and conductivity of the connection. Poor soldering can result in weak connections, higher 
resistance that causes heat buildup at the connection, and possible failure of the component.
The type of components and the pads to which they will be attached dictate the appropriate soldering
method. The correct amount and duration of heat to be applied is a function of the heat transfer
characteristics of the component, the circuit board, the solder pads, the solder and flux, and the 
environment, in which the soldering takes place. For this reason, effective soldering requires reasonably
controlled. Some experimentation is usually required to determine the optimal conditions for each 
application.
General Soldering Guides
All soldering applications require the following considerations:
* Preparation - Clean connections are essential to soldering. Clean connection maximize the ability of 
the solder to adhere uniformly to the joint surfaces ((welting).
* Soldering Method - The component type and size and your specific application determine the 
soldering method.
* Materials Selection - The component contacts, circuit board pads, solder, and flux materials must be 
compatible with soldering method.
* Maximum Temperature - The soldering materials and method determine the temperature profile. All
components must be able to withstand the maximum exposure temperature of the soldering operation
for specified time and duration.







Manual (Hand) Soldering Technique
While the amount of solder, and the amount and duration of heat to be applied are application-specific,
the following general hand-soldering guidelines will lead to consistent and reliable solder connections. A 
hot air gun is proffered for even heat application and control. The following techniques applies to hand
soldering of surface mount components using solder wires and soldering iron.
Preparation
Before beginning to the soldering process, identify the solder composition
and flux type. The solder type dictates the appropriate temperature of the soldering iron tips. Use small
diameter wire solder for soldering small SMT components.
Select an appropriate size tip before heating the soldering iron for a fine work result. Clean the tip of any
oxidation or contamination. Place a sponge soaked in cold water, nearby for frequent tip cleaning
between soldering operations.
Clean the electronic component's contact/leads and the circuit board pads of any contamination or
residue.
Hot Air Gun and Soldering Iron Temperature Settings
Hot air temperature tends to be variable when working on any SMD components various Mobile Phones 
Products used different kinds of solders, check the manufacturer recommendations for specific solder
types. The solder manufacturer may only provide the melting temperature range, so you may have to
experiment to determine the appropriate temperature.
The amount temperature on Hot Air gun commonly setting is between 250-350 degrees Celsius.
While soldering iron is between 200 to 280 degree Celsius.
This procedure covers the general guidelines for soldering surface 
mount chip components. The following surface mount chip
components are covered by this procedure. While all of these components are different, the techniques 
for soldering are relatively similar 
Chip Resistors
The component body of chip resistors is made out of alumna; an extremely hard, white colored material. 
The resistive material is normally located on the top. Chip resistors are usually mounted with the
resistive element facing upwards to help dissipate heat. 
Ceramic Capacitors
These components are constructed from several layers of ceramic 
with internal metallized layers. Because metal heats up much faster than ceramic, ceramic capacitors 
need to be heated slowly to avoid internal separations between the ceramic and the metal layers. 
Internal damage will not generally be visible, since any cracks will be inside the ceramic body of the 
component. 
NOTE
Avoid rapid heating of ceramic chip capacitors during soldering
operations.
Plastic Body
.Another style of chip component has a molded plastic body that 
protects the internal circuitry. There are a number of different types
of components that share this type of exterior package. The termination styles for plastic chip
component packages vary considerably.
MELF
MELF - Metal Electrode Face cylindrical components. These may be capacitors, resistors, and diodes. It 
can be hard to tell them apart - since there is no universal coloring or component designators printed on
the component bodies.







Replacing SMD Component on Printed 
Circuit Board
De-soldering and Soldering Hand Method
TOOLS & MATERIALS
Cleaner
Flux
Microscope or
Magnifying Glass lamp
Solder
Soldering Iron with Tips
Rework Station Hot Air
Wipes
PROCEDURES TO REMOVE SMD COMPONENT
Add liquid flux to both terminal pad.
Apply Desired Amount of heat on both sides of the leads.
Use a Tweezer to hold the component and observed until the solder joint is melted.
Slowly pull in upward direction, when solders are already melted. do not pull upward forcibly when
the solder is not melted yet. You might end up lifted the the terminal surface pads.
PROCEDURE TO REPLACE SMD COMPONENT
Clean the surface terminal pads with cleaning kits.
Removed remaining old solders by using solder wick 
When the pads is cleaned, Apply adequate amount of flux into the pads. 
Then apply both pads with fresh solder with desired heat controlled soldering iron.
Place the component in position and hold it steady with a tweezers so that the hot air won't push the
component out of alignment. 
Tack it down and apply heat 
Wait a moment for the solder to solidify both leads terminal. 
Remove heat and hold the SMD components with tweezer until the heats out and cool.
Cleaned the surrounding areas with cleaning kit. 
You can practice by doing this with an old and non working cellphone PC Board. The more you do
practice the more you will master it. Also observed and always become familiar of Hot air and soldering
iron  temperature settings. In my experience various type of cellphones solders have different melting
point of the solder leads. There are too soft and there are also hard soldered leads to removed.







How to Reball BGA Chips of a Mobile Phones Manually by 
Hand
Reballing Ball Grid Array (BGA) Chips in mobile phones manually by hand
Reballing BGA chips tends to need and have a good steady hand, since most cellphone technician
applied it manually by hands. It also requires good practice and experimentation before proceeding to
reball any chips in mobile phones, because there are chips in mobile phones that can be easily damaged 
if you are not so familiar of doing it as well. like the CPU's and the Application processor chips are very
vulnerable and can be easily damaged when applying non recommended heat on it. I advice 
that spending much time to practice it with non working PC board and chips is a good way to start. To
put thing straight up, in real life there are technician that are good re-baller and some have poor skills
on it. that is what I observe mostly when attending many forums on the Internet. The truth is by 
practicing doing it is the key to enhance re-balling chips skills.
Re-balling Chips Methods
. Prepare the proper Tools -You need to prepare also proper reballing kits and a cleaning kits for further 
cleaning the PC board.
. A good and controlled hot air temperature, You need to refer to manufacturers manual for proper 
temperature settings.







Identifying Spare Parts on Mobile Phones 
Handsets
As part on this tutorials, A good technician must also learn how to identify spare parts and how each 
particular parts works on cellphone handsets. Familiarizing each
Now various brands and models of every mobile phone products although have the same parts but 
differs on each sizes and technical specs. Others also are compatible with each other..
The Following are the most common types of spare parts you can find inside mobile phones handsets.
* 
Battery
* Battery Connector
* Antenna
* LCD
* LCD Frame 
* Camera Module
* Plug-in Connector
* Flex Cable Wires
* Navigator/Joystick/Trackball
* Touch Screen Panel
* Microphone
* Speaker
* Buzzer/Ringer
* Keypad Membrane
* Simcard Connector
* On/Off Switch
* Vibrator
* Back Housing
* Housing
BATTERY
A battery is used to provide power supply to the PCB circuits and components. There Are various types
of Batteries in each particular mobile phone products, and varies to each sizes and specifications. 
Manufacturers coded each particular packaged according to sizes and where specified product to use. 
The standard battery Voltage Range is 3.7V and is made of rechargeable Lithium Ion. 
Battery Connectors
This the interface where the battery connects and supply the voltage to the cellphones main circuitry or 
PC Board. Old models used 4 pin which lead to four battery output sources such as +(positive) (negative) BSI (battery status indicator) and Btemp (Battery Temperature)
The latest designs consists of only three pins, The + (positive) - (negative) and BSI (battery status
indicator) the Btemp is diminished and still in cellphone circuitry included.
Antenna's
Antennas are used to intercepts and boost network signals, without it the phone will hardly connects to
service providers and results network signal lost.
Antennas also consists of many types and sizes and varieties. It varies according to how each 
manufacturers designs. It is made of thin brass or stainless metal mounted on a plastic packaging.
LCD
Liquid Crystal Display(LCD) is the component that visualize the operation of a mobile phone handset. It is
made of glass with tiny crystal fixel that imitate the light source that has programmed to display certain 
information such as text and images.
LCD also comes from wide range of specifications older LCD are called monocrome which only display 
one certain color. The later designs where multicolored and displays rich text and images. The higher the 
fixel amount on a certain LCD the higher the picture resolution of images can displays.
Camera Module
Camera Modules is the component used to capture and store images, also comes in different
specifications and packaging. Examples of these modules are shown below. 
Plug-in Connectors
Plug in connectors are interfaces used in charging or by charger plugging, USB and data cables. Various 
mobile products also have different plug-in connectors designs.
Flex Cable Wires
These are wires that is made into a flat thin wires used as an interface to connect from one circuit or
components to another. It is called "Flex" means Flexible others also called it a "ribbon wire"
Joystick and Trackball
this a component parts which is used to navigate certain features on a mobile phones. It is commonly
navigate "UP","DOWN","LEFT","RIGHT","MENU","ENTER" keys.
Touch Screen Panels
Touch screen panels are made of flat thin glass which is designed with high capacitive or capacitance 
value. It navigates everywhere on LCD screen by just using a finger to or a stylus pen to switch trough
certain feature on a mobile phone handsets. 
Microphone
A microphone also known as "mouthpiece"is the component used to intercepts and imitates human
voice and sounds to sends to particular receiver or caller. Cellphone microphone are small and have 
different forms of packaging. 
Speaker
Speakers are the components that are used to hear someone talking when a call is made, without it you
cannot hear the other persons voice calling at you. It is called an "earpiece by most common
Technicians. 
Buzzers and Ringers
These are also speakers that can generate high audible sound louder than Earpiece speakers. It amplifies 
the ringtones or voice or music more audibly. 
Keypads Membrane
This are made of tiny round metals that acts as a switch in a row of letters and numbers characters on
keypads mattress.
SIM Card Connectors 
This is an Interface that acts as a holder and connects the Sim card to the PC board circuits. 
ON and OFF Switch
It is made of tiny metal that conducts connectivity when press. It is being used as a power on and off, 
Volume control switch and camera shutter switch on various mobile phones.
Vibrator
it is made of a tiny motor that conduct vibration when in active mode. It has been attach an unbalance 
tiny metal on its tip, that is why it creates vibration when the motor rotates. 
Other Parts
More Parts like LCD Frames, ON and OFF rubber buttons, Metal frames, Screws, Back housing, Face 
plates are also plays vital role on mobile phones packaging.
Some Parts may I have not included here, for some are just so rare in some mobile phone products. 








PART 07
Understanding Major Integrated Circuits
(IC) on Mobile Phones
Power Management IC
Application Processor
Flash IC
RAM IC








What is Power Management IC, How Does it supply power 
voltage to a Mobile Phones circuit 
Power Management IC is a power IC, that manage, control and distribute and Supply Power voltages
from the battery source to other corresponding circuits or chips.
It is highly designed to convert, regulate, stabilize current and voltages that flow across unto it.
A power supply IC Chips can divide and multiply certain voltage from one desired voltage source to any
desired power output voltages.
Which is for example a battery voltage source amounts at 3.7voltsDC while other components chips or 
circuit only requires the amount of 1.8volts, This 1.8volts is the amount of voltage is what the power 
management IC are going to convert.
A block diagram below shows a brief details on how power supply IC converts and distribute certain 
desired
voltage from a battery power source to other corresponding circuits or components.
In a typical schematic diagram like in Nokia mobile phones, certain output supply power voltages were
labeled as how much the amount of each output to supply power voltages to another circuits or 
components.
A failure of a power management IC to gain this following output voltage is also a failure to other 
corresponding components or circuits to work.
A picture below is an example layout of a power management IC mounted on a printed circuit board.
A deep familiarization of how this chips works including its whole operation within a circuitry of mobile 
phones is also a powerful tool in troubleshooting hardware problem issues on a mobile phones. 







What is An Application Processor in Mobile Phones Circuit 
Do 
An application processor is a central processing unit (CPU) like the one installed on personal computer.
It is the brain and controls all kind of data and information any application in mobile phones circuit.
It is microprocessor integrated circuit (IC) chip.
LCD controller, camera interface, serial interfaces, memory interface,USB controller, bluetooth and wifi
controller,and more. are controlled by an the application processor. 
Here's an example of an application processor block diagram below, on how this kind of IC works on
mobile phones circuit. This kind of an application is commonly used on Nokia latest designed of mobile 
handsets. The description of this application processor below will help us understand how does this 
certain IC work.
OMAP2420 Processor
The OMAP2420 processor is a single-chip applications processor that supports all cellular standards, and
complements any modem or chipset and any air interface. It is intended for high-volume wireless 
handset manufacturers and is not available through distributors. The OMAP2420 includes the benefits
of the OMAP 2 architecture's parallel processing, giving users the ability to instantly run applications and
operate multiple functions simultaneously without quality of service compromises. The OMAP2420
includes an integrated ARM1136 processor (330 MHz , a TI TMS320C55x™DSP (220 MHz , 2D/3D
graphics accelerator, imaging and video accelerator, high-performance system interconnects and
industry-standard peripherals.
Graphics
The OMAP2420 processor embeds Imagination Technologies' POWERVR MBX™ graphics core, making it
the first applications processor to support OpenGL ES® 1.1 and OpenVG™, providing superior graphics 
performance and advanced user interface capabilities. TI is enabling sophisticated and dynamic images 
with "smart pixel" technology offered via OpenGL ES 1.1. This unique technology allows each pixel in an
image to be programmed individually, giving developers the power to create rich effects with cinematic
realism. Users will now experience "life-like" facial features, advanced reflection effects and multitextured backgrounds in the mobile environment.
Multimedia enhancements made in the OMAP2420 include an added imaging and video accelerator for 
higher-resolution still capture applications, multi-megapixel cameras and full-motion video encode and
decode with VGA resolution of 30 frames per second. An added TV video output supports connections 
to television displays for displaying images and video captured from the handset. 5-Mb internal SRAM
also boost streaming media performance. Access to the OMAP Developer Network also provides an
extensive range of programs and media components that manufacturers can use for differentiating and
delivering products to market fast.
Key Features:

Dedicated 2D/3D graphics accelerator at 2 million polygons per second

Added imaging and video accelerator enables high-resolution still image capture, larger screen 
sizes and higher video frame rates

Supports high-end features including 4+ megapixel cameras, VGA-quality video, high-end
interactive gaming functionality and analog/digital TV video output

5-Mb internal SRAM boosts streaming media performance

Software compatibility with previous OMAP processors

Parallel processing ensures no interruptions or degradation of service with simultaneously
running applications

Optimized power management companion chip, TWL92230 12 mm x 12 mm, 325-ball MicroStar
BGA™, 0.5-mm pitch







What is NAND and NOR Flash Memories 
There are two types of flash memory,
 NOR and NAND. The names refer to the type of logic gate used in
each memory cell. (Logic gates are a fundamental building block of digital circuits). NOR flash memory
was first introduced by Intel in 1988. NAND flash was introduced by Toshiba in 1989
The two chips work differently. NOR flash is faster, but it's also more expensive and takes longer to
erase and write new data. NOR is most often used in mobile phones. NAND has significantly higher 
storage capacity than NOR. It has found a market in devices to which large files are frequently uploaded 
and replaced. MP3 players, digital cameras and USB drives use NAND flash.
NAND Flash is a special form of Flash memory. Flash memory is a memory technology that keeps data
even when the power supply is cut off; this is known as a non-volatile memory type. Flash memory can
be read pretty fast, but writing to Flash memory is pretty slow compared to many other -volatilememory technologies such as SRAM or DRAM. Flash also has a limited number of write-cycles;
manufacturers typically specify something in the area of 10,000 writes for the lifetime of the part.
NAND Flash is faster than regular Flash, although the general characteristics still hold.
Flash memory is widely used in digital cameras, portable MP3 players, USB (Flash) sticks, and many
other devices.
NOR flash memory is a type of non-volatile storage technology that does not require power to retain
data.
NAND devices are accessed serially, using the same eight pins to transmit control, addressing and data. 
NOR flash memory supports one-byte random access, which allows machine instructions to be retrieved 
and run directly from the chip, in the same way that a traditional computer will retrieve instructions 
directly from main memory. NOR flash has an SRAM interface that includes enough address pins to map
the entire chip, enabling for access to every byte stored within it.
Some devices use both NAND and NOR. A pocket PC, for instance, may use embedded NOR to boot up
the operating system and a removable NAND card for all its other memory or storage requirements. 







What is RAM IC ? how does it work on mobile phones 
handsets 
Random access memory (RAM)
 is used in mobile phones circuit to store memory data. It is made of
millions of transistors and capacitors that being packed into integrated circuit (IC)
Transistors and capacitors are paired to create a memory cell, which represent a single bit of data. The 
capacitor holds the bit data of information, a 0 or a 1. The transistor acts as a switch that lets the control
circuitry on the memory chip read the capacitor or change its state. In most cases common form of 
mobile phones memory is a Dynamic random access memory (DRAM)
The opposite of RAM is Serial Dynamic Random access memory (SAM). SAM stores data 
as a series of memory cell that can only be access sequentially. If the data is not in the current location
each memory cell is check until the needed data is found.
SDRAM
SDRAM stands for Synchronous Dynamic Random Access Memory. DDR is short for "DDR SDRAM" and
stands for Double Data Rate. Nowadays to avoid misunderstandings SDRAM is often specified as SDR 
SDRAM and SDR stands for Single Data Rate by analogy with DDR. Therefore, the main difference 
between SDR and DDR memory the doubled speed: DDR can transfer data at roughly twice the speed of
SDRAM. 
DRAM.
 Dynamic Random Access Memory is used to temporarily store information on mobile phones.
DRAM is made up of many cells and each cell is referred to as a bit. A cell contains a capacitor and a 
transistor. Since computer machine language is made up of 1s and 0s, it has the value of one when 
active and zero when inactive.
SDRAM or Synchronous Random Access Memory is the result of DRAM evolution. This type of memory 
synchronizes the input and output signals with the system board. Its speed ratings are in MHz. SDRAM
was introduced in 1996 and is still used today. SDRAM transmits every clock count at a specific time.
DDR RAM (or Double Data Rate Random Access Memory) does the same but it does so twice every clock 
count. This makes DDR RAM twice as fast as SDRAM. 








PART 08
Basic Hardware Handling Procedures
Proper Disassembling and Assembling Methods
How to Test Mobile phone Speaker, Buzzer or Ringer
How to Test Mobile phone Microphone or Mouthpiece
How to test Mobile Phone Charger Voltage
How to Test Mobile Phone Vibra Motor
How to check Mobile Phone Battery Voltage
How to test Power ON OFF Switch








How to Properly Dismantle Mobile Phones Handsets
Before Proceeding to dismantle any mobile Phone Handset make sure to ask your costumer about the
warranty period of the said handset. Attempting to open it, may lose service warranty, just unless you
are working in any authorized service center which is you are the one who decides.
Dismantling mobile handset needs extra care to avoid further damaged.
Scratches and breakage also takes place if unhanding carefully. On the internet you can easily find
disassembly guide just type the following keywords example 
"brand + model number + Disassembly guides" you may also find it in Youtube for video guides.
Even Professionals needs extra care how to dismantle mobile handset. Various brands have different
types of packaging types. Opening Tools also varies according what they suggest including torx screw
number and other opening kits. 
keep your time and don't rush in, always keep in mind that you are handling fragile object. 
Wearing white cotton hand gloves is a good advice for beginners and even Pros, to avoid risk of Electro
Static Discharge 
(ESD) There are components like CPU and Memory Chips which is can be easily damaged by Human
Interference, a ground strap is also required as advice.
Make your working table free of dust and dirt's and other objects which is not part of disassembling
tools, to keep a place where all part have to put when opening operation is done.
Here's an example dis-assembling of Nokia handset looks like.
Latest released of mobile Phone products doesn't have guides available like shown above. Pros and
masters defends only their instincts to tear it down, with out any guides available. 
Here is set example of a teardown with iphone 3G courtesy of iFixit
iphone 3G
Tools Used in this Guide
*Dental Pick
*Metal Spudger
*Paper Clip
*Phillips #00 Screwdriver
*Spudger
Step 1 — Battery 
*Remove the two Phillips #00 screws from the dock-connector end of the iPhone. 
Step 2
*There is a rubber gasket between the silver front bezel and black display assembly. A bit of force is 
required in this step to separate the iPhone's display assembly.
*Use a small suction cup near the Home button to gently pull up the bottom portion of the iPhone's 
display assembly.
Step 3
*The display assembly is still connected to the iPhone by several cables, so don't try to remove it 
entirely just yet.
*Rotate the display assembly up until it is at an angle of approximately 45 degrees.
Step 4
*Continue to hold the display assembly with one hand, and use your other hand and a spudger to
disconnect the black ribbon cable labeled "1." 
Step 5
*Rotate the display assembly up until it is roughly vertical. This will allow easier access for disconnecting
the remaining cables.
*Use a spudger to disconnect the black ribbon cable labeled "2."
Step 6
*Use a spudger to flip up the white plastic tab holding the remaining ribbon cable in place. The white 
tab will rotate up 90 degrees, releasing the ribbon cable.
* Slide the black ribbon cable out of its connector, and remove the display assembly from the iPhone.
Step 7
*Insert your SIM eject tool or a paper clip into the hole next to the headphone jack.
*Press down on the tool until the SIM card tray pops out.
*Grasp the SIM card tray and slide it out of the iPhone.
Step 8 
*Use a spudger to disconnect the ribbon cable labeled "4." 
Step 9 
*Use a spudger to disconnect the ribbon cable labeled "5." 
*Use a spudger to disconnect the ribbon cable labeled "6." 
Step 11 
*Carefully peel up the small sticker labeled "Do not remove." 
Step 12
*Remove the following 8 screws:
oFive 2.3 mm Phillips #00 screws with partial threads securing the logic board to the rear panel.
oTwo 2.3 mm Phillips #00 screws with full threads securing the logic board and camera.
oOne 2.9 mm Phillips #00 screw from beneath the "Do not remove" sticker.
*Use a spudger to gently pry the camera up and out of its housing in the rear panel. The camera cannot 
be removed entirely yet because it's connected to the bottom of the logic board.
Step 14
*Use a spudger to gently pry up the end of the logic board closest to the dock connector.
*If the board won't lift up, double check to make sure all the screws securing the logic board have been
removed.
Step 15
*Slide the logic board towards the dock connector and out of the iPhone.
*Use a spudger to pry the battery up from the rear panel. The battery is attached with an adhesive strip
around the perimeter of the battery. To prevent the battery from bending during the removal process,
we recommend against using just the plastic pull-tab .
Step 17 — Headphone Jack 
*Remove the two Phillips #00 screws securing the on/off switch to the front bezel. 
Step 18 
*Carefully peel up the orange ribbon cable from the rear panel. 
Step 19
*Remove the following 4 screws:
oThree 1.8 mm Phillips #00 screws securing the headphone jack and GPS antenna to the rear panel.
oOne 3.8 mm Phillips #00 screw in the plastic loop near the headphone jack.
Step 20 
*Remove the four Phillips #00 screws securing the volume and vibrate buttons. 
Step 21 
*Lift the volume button circuitry away from the side of the iPhone, and carefully peel up the orange
ribbon cable from the rear panel 
Step 22 
*Carefully lift the headphone jack assembly out of the iPhone. 
Step 23 — GPS Antenna  
*Remove the single Phillips #00 screw securing the black plastic spacer. 
Step 24 
*Use a spudger to pry up the black plastic antenna housing from the rear panel.
*Lift the black plastic antenna housing out of the iPhone. 
Step 25 — Rear Panel 
*Remove the on/off switch button from the iPhone. 
*Remove the vibrate button from the iPhone. 
Step 27 
*Remove the two Phillips #00 screws securing the vibrator to the rear panel.
*Lift the vibrator up and out of the iPhone. 
Step 28
*Remove the following 3 screws:
oTwo 1.5 mm Phillips #00 screws, one on either side of the dock connector.
o One 2.4 mm Phillips #00 screw near the ribbon cable labeled "4."
*Lift the dock connector assembly up and out of the iPhone.
Step 30 
*The rear panel and attached front bezel remain. 







iPhone 3GS Teardown
Step 1
*The original iPhone was very difficult to open, but we expect the 3GS (like the 3G) to be quite 
serviceable. There are still two visible screws on the bottom of the phone, which is a good sign for easy
opening.
*Remove the two bottom screws with a Phillips #00 screwdriver.
Step 2
*A small suction cup is your friend. A large suction cup may also be a fun toy.
*There are seven numbered connectors on the 3GS, up from six on the 3G. Connector number seven is 
in the lower right corner, just above the dock connector.
Step 3
*There are three cables holding the LCD and digitizer to the rest of the logic board. Disconnecting them
is as easy as 1-2-3. 
1: LCD panel 
2: Digitizer 
3: Ear speaker 
Step 4
*Here's the two halves.
*All the chips on the logic board are hidden beneath two large EMI shields. We'll have those removed in
just a bit.
Step 5
*Just like the iPhone 3G, the LCD is pretty easy to replace. After removing 7 screws, the LCD simply lifts 
out.
*On the iPhone 3G, we see a lot more cracked digitizers than cracked LCDs. Replacing the digitizer is a 
little more work, and requires breaking out a heat gun or hair dryer.
*Here's the fabled "Do not remove" sticker. It didn't stop us last year, and it's certainly not going to stop
us this year.
Step 7 
*Removing the logic board. Like the 3G, there is a single large PCB with all components. 
Step 8
*The main logic board. There's a lot packed in here. Here's a high-res image of this shot.
*The Apple-logo chip is the primary Samsung ARM processor.
*The 16 GB of Toshiba flash are now on the front of the board, just below the Samsung ARM.
*The other side of the logic board. You can see the battery contact pads in the lower right corner. Apple 
was again kind enough to not solder the battery to the logic board.
*Here's a high-res image of this shot. 
Step 10
*Apple promises improved battery life with the 3GS. The battery is listed as 3.7V and 4.51 Whr. This 
comes out to 1219 mAh, compared to 1150 mAh on the 3G. That's only a 6% increase.
*Video recording is a long-overdue feature of the iPhone 3GS. The 3GS records video at 640x480
resolution and 30 fps.
*The video recording quality appears acceptable, although not exceptional. You can see a video (taken 
using another iPhone 3GS) of us opening the phone.
Step 12
*The 3GS offers Voice Control. We're not sure yet why this feature couldn't be added via software to
earlier iPhones. Perhaps the voice recognition requires a better microphone than in earlier iPhones or a
lot of processing power, or maybe Apple just wanted to differentiate the 3GS.
*According to Richard Lai, the "Chinese (Cantonese) voice control works, but took a while to work out 
the magic words as there is no guide released yet (not out in Hong Kong until early July)." He also tested 
the "Chinese (Mandarin) and Chinese (Taiwanese), although the latter didn't work as well since [he 
doesn't] do the accent well."
Step 13 
*Here's all the parts. We'll continue to perform further analysis. 







How to Test Mobile phone Speaker,Buzzer or Ringer 
Speakers also known as earpiece is the device that allows the handset user to hear the other user during
call conversations.
While the Buzzer or a Ringer is the one that sends out the ringtone to be heard by the handset user. 
Both Earpiece, buzzer or ringer are same speaker. it only varies the loudness of it sounds being produce.
Ringer buzzer generates more loudness than the earpiece speaker.
A speaker is a device that converts electrical signal into sounds.
It is made by a magnetic wire winded into a coil and a metal piece of magnet.
below is an example oh how to test of a good and working speakers .
Simply set the analog or digital multi-tester to X1 resistance value, and attach one probe to one the 
speakers terminal while tick tacking the other one unto it.
A working speaker produce a crackling sounds and the multi-tester pointer moves, while the a busted
one will not and have no reading. 







How to Test Mobile phone Microphone or Mouthpiece 
Mobile phone microphone
 also known as mouthpiece is the one that intercepts the voice to transmit to
other mobile phone users. Without it or a defective one will result that the other user on a phone 
cannot hear the one with a defective microphone on its mobile phone handsets.
A technical term of a microphone is a device used to convert sounds
into electrical signal.
A microphone is made of an electrical magnetic wire shaped into a round coil with a magnet metal 
surrounds it, the mechanical vibration generated by it will then produce an electrical voltage signal.
Checking the microphone is also been so easy, Just set the analog or digital multi-tester to x1 resistance 
value then attach both test probe to its terminal. A good sign of a working microphone tends to have a 
reading while the busted one will have no reading. In some other cases types of microphones may only
have a reading to the range of x10 for some high resistance value. 







How to test Mobile Phone Charger Voltage
Learning to check mobile phone charger voltage is also a big help when it comes to troubleshooting
charging problem.
Various mobile phones have different varieties of charger packaging and designed but almost all of 
them have one the same operational concepts. 
A picture below is an example of a charger used in
 Nokia Mobile Phones.
The concepts is that the positive voltage is in the inner side of the connector pin while the negative 
voltage is in outer side of the pin. Charger voltage range from 4.5 to 6 volts and an average rating of 800
milliAmpere current. 
Checking it output voltage will be on its connector pin tips. Just set the analog or digital multi-meter to
10DCV or higher range. and connect both test probe to its corresponding polarities. A good and working
charger will get the approximately correct reading while the busted one will get no reading.
Many experts know how to fix mobile phone charger for they know the whole designed of its circuitry 
inside it, but I'd rather not encourage to the newbies to teach about it because it is so complicated and
might result risk of electric shock or any possible accident. It is because that circuit involves AC
(alternating current) on it, NOTE: Alternating Current is a dangerous voltage and can kill if not have 
much knowledge about it.







How to Test Mobile Phone Vibration Motor 
A mobile phone vibration is created by a small motor called 
Vibra motor. when applied by a voltage or 
current it rotates and the vibration is generated by a small tiny piece of metal attach to its tip.
Checking this small piece of motor was so very easy just set the analog multi-tester range to X1 in 
resistance
settings then connect the both probes to each terminals, polarity doesn't matter here for the motor will 
rotate clockwise if its in the right polarity. and rotates counter clockwise when not in each
corresponding polarity.
A good and working vibration motor will then rotate and a bad or busted one will not. 







How to check Mobile Phone Battery Voltage 
A good and working battery voltage is approximately 3.7 volts DC(direct current), below that maximum
voltage range the phone will not be able to power on.
Checking the battery voltage by an analog multi-meter is so easy, just set it to a DC range 10volts then 
attach the both test probes to each corresponding polarity, positive probe to positive terminal, then 
negative probe to negative battery terminal. Check the maximum battery voltage reading 3.7 volts.
A battery voltage lower than 3.7 volts can power on the handsets but it shows Battery Low on a screen.
A battery voltage lower than 2 to zero volts will hardly charge the phone and won't power up the phone.
A drain battery voltage approximately down to zero volts will not be able to accept charge when a 
charger is being plug-in. A drain battery will be shock by a a higher voltage range from 6 to 12 volts for a
quick charging point as possible to avoid damaging the battery, a DC regulated power supply. is the 
equipment used to shock a drained battery. just connect both probe to each corresponding polarity for 
a quicker period of time, prolonging it will damage the battery itself. You may ask an experience 
technician in your neighborhood about this method for assistance and safety guidelines. 







Power ON OFF Switch on Mobile Phone - Test and Check 
Up Procedures 
ON/OFF Switch on cell phones comes different varieties and forms or designs but the fundamentals on
how does it work or where to use it is the same. On Off switch can be determine by the number of its 
legs or terminals.
This cell phone repair tutorial for beginners covers on how to check the power on off switch on mobile 
phones and also work on volume key switches.
Here's a brief information on every ON and OFF switch which covers how the components being
assembled and by this information you can easily test and check up the said switch if it is good or in 
working condition. 
By checking on off switch is been so simply by just only checking its terminals conducting continuity. 
A broken power on off switch can be easily determine when its visual assembly is busted out,
so this procedure below covers only when the said switch visual assembly seems to be good. 
This also the first step to repair the mobile phone if unable to power up, its like happens when the 
phone can accept and show charging if at charging state but unable to power up while pressing the 
power ON OFF button switch.
The two Legs On OFF switch assembly: 
This check up procedure can work even if the ON OFF switch is mounted on the printed circuit board or 
isolated.
Two check this two legged kind of ON OFF switch is by simply set the multimeter to X1, then connect 
the two test probes of the multimeter to both legs of the switch, we are just simply trying to check here 
if the on off switch continuity. Then hold it so that it won't move then simply press it gently. You can
easily determine it here when the said switch is working or not by the multimeter response, If the 
pointer moves approximately 0ohms the switch is good and working, but while if it is not moving at all it
means the switch is faulty.
The four legs ON OFF switch assembly:
This check up procedure can work even if the ON OFF switch is mounted on the printed circuit board or 
isolated.
Four legged On off switch has its both opposite two terminal connected which other, so by checking this 
said switch is similar to the two legged on off switch. Again. just set the multimeter to X1 and connect 
the both probes to both opposite terminal of the said switch then simply hold and gently press it to get
readings. 
If the the multimeter's pointer moves it means it is working while if not the switch is faulty.
Read below for understanding how ON OFF switch works for advance power ON OFF switch problem
repair troubleshooting techniques. 







Cell Phone Power ON/OFF switch line paths, Basic test 
procedure
If you ever wonder how to determine if the power on off switch line paths is working or not or being cut 
or open, when proceeding to repair a dead cell phone handset?
This one will help you to a more specific troubleshooting steps,
before looking for or applying a power ON OFF ways solution or modified jumper on it. 
This tricks can be applied before or after doing the following steps in repair procedures,
1. the flash firmware is okay
2. the power switch is okay
3. the phone can charge up or accept and show charging indication on LCD display but won't power up
Here's a simple Tricks on how to determine faulty power ON/OFF switch line path on mobile phone's 
circuit.
By a way of Checking Resistance: This one can be applied if the power on/off line is directly connected to
the Power Management IC terminal itself and no other components or open tests spot on the PCB's 
layout.
Set your multimeter tester to X10 or X 100 and connect the one probes to the power line path terminal
of the power on off switch and the other one to the ground. Do this twice by reversing both probes 
position. If there is an indication of reading it means that line paths is okay, but without any response 
from the multimeter tester this means that the power on off switch line path is being cut or open. This 
technique is not just considering that every components needs a connection to the ground to work but 
definitely it won't work exactly without the ground connection.
By a way of checking voltage: This method can be applied by using a temporary voltage from DC Power
Supply Regulator or even a battery itself, if the said handset is manageable to attach the battery
without the pcb casing on it. Some mobile phones can be attachable when the battery pin connector is
mounted and soldered on the PCB and unlike those have not. 
Okay by checking voltage, just set the multimeter tester to 10volts DC, connect the negative probe to
the PCB's groundings, then the other other one which is positive to the power on off line path. The 
voltage reading can reach up to 1 to 4 volts DC depending on which particular mobile phones models. 
The most important part on this, is that you should get readings to determine if the line paths is okay. 
Without any reading, the line path is seemingly open or cut. 








PART 09
Troubleshooting 
Fixing hardware problems is not been easy and takes a lot of time to consume rather than software
problems, it is because when it comes to software handling you don't really need to open or dismantle a 
mobile phone handset, because only few of them really need to. In most cases like this, many among
mobile phones technician focus on software handling like especially unlocking, for it less time 
consuming and more flexible to do with. This is been true that mobile phone technicians were separated
into two specialties, like Hardware expert and Software expert, that is what the term they called it; It 
because mobile phones is a combination of software and hardware mechanism.
But there are also many mobile phones masters that can manage and do both hardware and software
specialty and skills. They gained this knowledge by years of experience, and not only that they also
earned much more income rather than to those staying at one particular specialty. 
Now, here is the basic step by step repair procedure on hardware troubleshooting on mobile phones.
Various mobile phones have different circuits and components or parts layouts and designs. First thing
you must learn and be familiar with is, how each circuit components or parts is being mounted, 
connected, assembled or designed.
First step in handling troubleshooting procedure.
1. Visualization Checkup- Before proceeding to anything always consider the fact that a mobile phones 
handset is fragile object. Check and have take a look around every inch of the handsets package and
layout, In this manner you can identify if the handset is in repairable condition, something like checking
the whole printed circuit board components and parts, if it is free from dust, corrosion, bended,
breakage etc.
2. Know the Phones Status - Ask the the user or the costumer about the phones history before the 
problem occurs. Letting know the phones history like accidentally soaked into a liquids or water,
dropped, throwned and etc.
In this manner you can get an idea where to start or begin with. 
3. Do Software Check up - Use a certain flashing device for that particular handset product to be able to
read logs, logs is a reading of mobile phones firmware programmed and installed unto it. This is a big
help for most advance mobile technician this days, A logs reading can help you where the faulty line or 
parts occurs. If you are not familiar about how to read logs you can ask to that certain flashing device 
product supporters and creator.
You can do flash, reformat at first hand if found something wrong with the mobile phones firmware. If 
all methods of software already done and nothing happens, proceed to hardware troubleshooting.
4. 
Analyze The Circuit - After dismantling and do visualization check up,be patient and take your time to
analyze the whole circuits layout, and think of a step by step plan procedure in your mind where or how
to begin with. A Special Operation Procedure is good way and a reliable source of idea within yourself, 
not only by enhancing your skills but you are also practicing a self discipline method.
Now lets take one example of basic hardware troubleshooting methods in one particular mobile phone 
handsets. In this simple way you can then manage how to troubleshoot or been able on finding faulty
parts or components within a mobile phone circuitry.
An example here is Nokia 6300, now assuming that this handset having a faulty microphone or
mouthpiece.  
Do the basic procedures mentioned above, assuming that you are familiar with the Mouthpiece or 
microphone circuit, and already know how to check a microphone or mouthpiece component.
you can now do this step below;
1. Find any available schematic diagram and locate the microphone circuit layout on it. Remember 
where each parts and components location and do a mapping like this.
2. Use a multi-tester and check the pads for a short circuit, this is not always happen but it is also
unpredictable to a mobile phones short circuit might occurs, you are not checking the outer mounted
components but the internal lines with it. Just set the tester to x1 resistance value, I preferred analog
multitester in this lesson for it is cheaper to purchase rather than the digital. Now connect both test
probe to the inner and outer layer of the mouthpiece terminal pads, then do it again in opposite 
manner, a short circuit have both readings closer to zero ohms. 
3. Trace the line paths between the first or the closest component connected to each terminal pads.
The circuit diagram shows that there are coil filter in both lines, connect the tester across each coil
terminal leds, your not just checking the lines here but also checking the coil as well.
4. Now the next step is to leave behind the line paths between the coil to the EMI-Filter for it is uncheck
able beyond that paths for the EMI- filter is an IC. you need to remove it first before you can check on
that lines , which will be done later at the last steps of procedures. Now next to move on to the opening
lines and component where the test probe can connect with, the two filter capacitors and both coils
which are an open path where you can connect the test probe on it. now connect or attach both probes
at the end of each line indicated in red.
5. Now check the remaining open path which is the Resistor, you can't check the line paths on those
area for it ends up connected to Retu IC. So just then proceed to check its resistance value instead. 
6. If all those mentioned lines above is all in good condition you may now proceed to suspect the EMIFilter is having a problem or faulty. You then now remove it from the Printed circuit board then do a line 
check up from the mouthpiece terminal to that EMI-filter terminal bumps where it is being connected. 
You can refer to the schematic diagram for each terminal specification. You may now can check the IC 
itself by analyzing the internal circuitry inside it. I advice just replace a good and working one if not so
sure about.
8. It this step is most complicated job to do with, specially for beginners. This is one of advance 
troubleshooters skills. If found all of those line paths and components above were in good conditions.
The last part is to work a power management IC itself for the audio codec circuit is also within that chips.
Now, if the last and final suspected parts is the chips, you must need to rework it, Reheating it the first
will do and might as well also work. But if the problem still remain, Reworking it is the best advice that 
suites out.
but also do not forget to check the line paths between the mouthpiece circuit area, while the chips is 
being remove and out on the PCB layout, it is a proper time to check the ball bumps terminal where that 
certain microphone is being connected. an example of tracing the ball bumps terminals below.
okay, that's it for a while, for there are lots of techniques we are going to tackle sooner, hope you do
understand a little bit with this method. 








PART 10
Troubleshooting and Repairs
How to Troubleshoot Not Charging Issues
How charging circuit works
No Charging Response
Charger Not Supported
Not Charging
How SIM Circuits works
Insert Sim Card Problem
Invalid Sim Card
How Keypad Circuits Works
How to Map and Trace keypads Lines 
Understanding The LED light Circuits
Explanation on How Audio Circuits work
Mouthpiece
Earpiece
Buzzer
Ringer
Headset
Vibra motor
How LCD Display Circuit Works
Understanding How RF circuit works







How does Charging Circuit Works from a Battery Charger 
to charge a Mobile phone Battery
This lesson is also important for charging problem troubleshooting for knowing which parts or 
components has being used to make a charging circuit. Many mobile phone technicians had been asking
me, how does mobile phone charging circuit works? How does a battery charger can charge a mobile
phone battery? 
To tell the truth many of them has never heard of this even they already fix thousands of mobile phones 
in their years of cellphone repair careers." and I am one of them.
I don't know but I know how fix it, its so easy" that's what we've often said.
Well, we all know that all mobile phones are all battery operated handsets that needs to charge the 
battery so that it will continue working, failure to charge it will result to unable to power up the mobile 
phone handsets.
Here's a brief explanation of how charging circuit works,
I prepare this simple idea and diminished some electronics technical terms so that everyone without 
adequate knowledge on electronics technical terms might can catch up with this.
A charging circuit is composed of the following stages or sections.
1. 
Battery Charger Circuits - Although this is not found on mobile phones PC board circuit and have 
separate circuit but definitely this is also part of charging circuit; without this, the charging circuit is not
complete and will not work completely. 
This circuit is all parts and components that being mounted on any mobile phone charger, this is the 
one that converts AC (Alternating Current)voltage to DC (Direct Current)voltage.
What is AC Voltage? This voltage is a power source that we used in our household appliances to
work and operate, this voltage can cause risk of electric shock and very dangerous to humans when 
being touch. This kind of voltage has an alternate polarity.
What is DC voltage? This voltage is a low level voltage which typically found on any kind of batteries.
This kind of voltage have two polarities, the negative and the positive. 
Here's how the battery charger works, the 110 or 220 AC volts coming from the electrical outlet at
home or etc. will be converted to a desired DC voltage like 4.5 to 6 volt DC because the phone only
accepts and can be operated into small amount of DC voltage.
A DC voltage output of a charger is only an artificial DC voltage, why is that? because only a battery cell 
can produce a 100% pure DC voltage.
2. 
Protection Circuit- this circuit is composed of a Fuse, Inductor coil Diode and Capacitors, before the 
DC voltage reach to the charging voltage control circuits the protection circuit is the one that control
and check if that voltage is in exact amount. Let say the desired amount of DC voltage is only 5.6 volts
above that point the fuse will be blown out to stop the voltage to flow so that it prevents damaging to
another corresponding circuits.
In a protection circuit below of Nokia BB5 mobile phones a diode is the one that measure the amount of 
voltage from the battery charger, this diode has a reaching point of desired voltage to measure of how 
much amount of voltage will be allowed to flow within that line, when exceed to that desired point of 
voltage the diode will then cut it off.
like for example if that 
diode is being designed that only allows only 7 volts from the battery charger to
flow on that line. Now, above that desired voltage let say that the voltage becomes 8 or higher the diode
will then be reacts and destruct itself, this is what then so-called shorted component; so that the current
will flow directly to ground and will not reach to the following or corresponding circuit. If the diode will 
cut off or shorted the fuse will tends to blow and totally cut the voltage line. The inductor coil's role is to
filter unwanted voltage saturation, it rejects abnormal voltage modulation caused by electrostatic 
interference.
3. 
Charger Voltage Control Circuit - This is the stage where the charger voltage and current is being
stabilized, amplified, rectified, regulated and other voltage purification process is being held in this area 
before it feeds to the battery. This kind of circuit commonly being pack in a chips together with another
circuits.
A failure of this certain area will result on charging problem status. This area mostly called by most
technician as a Charging IC it is because this circuit is inside in a particular IC chips, but eventually this
circuit also accompanied by many other circuit types and not exclusive to a certain charging area.
This pictures shows is the next corresponding circuit from the protection circuit area. The voltage from 
charger is now then feeds into three terminal inputs of the charger voltage control circuits. 
in this figure shows after the voltage stabilization and purification process the voltage is now then feeds 
to the battery terminal.
4.
 Charging Control Circuit - this is the area where the charging process is being monitored, this is the
one that sends information to the application processor to start or stop the charging process. This area
is part of Power management circuit, so-called POWER IC by many technicians.
In this picture that there are two terminal signal from the voltage control that sends data to the 
Charging control circuit, this two data signals will inform to the charging control circuit that a charger
voltage is being entered or plug-in. After this charging control circuits receives the data it will then 
analyze and convert that data into digital signal then sends it to the Application processor.
The application processor which is the brain of all the circuits now then decide if all the data's are in
correct or in right information to begin the process,
It always relies on the data that sends by the charging control circuit, then decide all data and
completely process it.
Okay now lets take an example and apply this particular method on a mobile phone circuitry component 
layout, I have here a Nokia N95 board, which is a good way to start with, while we still working on
advance training. Now, try to analyze and compare all of those previous picture above and combined
them into each corresponding stages or section, in this manner you can build an step by step tracing
procedure on how to deal charging problem issues.
In the picture above shows, how and where the voltage flow from a charger voltage source through the 
entire PC board circuit. This is the method where you can start and manage how to locate and trace 
each and every component to find possible problems regarding charging problem issues. 







How to Repair Cellphone Not Charging, No Response, 
Charger Not Supported Problem Issues 
There are few types of charging problem issues like Not Charging, No Charging Response and 
Charger Not Supported.
A problem issues with "Not Charging" shows on a display when a charger is being plug-in, this 
problem occurs when a required current or voltage is not enough to boost up and charge the 
mobile phones battery.
One reason of this problem is a faulty BSI Line, a BSI line is a Battery Size Indicator that tell
the charging control circuit how's the batteries working status.
The battery has a BSI output indicator terminal that connected to its negatives terminal 
with desired value of resistor on it.
One other charging problem issues is the No charging response when a battery charger is being
plug-in, it stays no response or nothing happens.
One reason of this is a faulty protection circuit section. this happens when there is no voltage
reach to charging circuit indicators and controls. If the protection circuit breakdown this will
result to "charging no response" situation. You need to check each components for short and 
open circuits. You may start from the fuse then to the coil and the diode. 
Charger Not Supported problem is cause by a faulty BTEMP thermistor component, BTEMP
stands for Battery Temperature, This is the one that monitors the battery temperature status 
during at charging status, if this one having a problem , it wont allow any charger to proceed to 
charging stage.
This all, is only a brief explanation of how charging problem issues occurs, while charging the 
mobile phones .
There are lots of ways on how to troubleshoot each and every kind of handsets. Hope at least, 
this one let help you understand how charging problem issues occurs, and by this you can gain 
ideas to move into a stage where you can practice how to troubleshoot this kind of issues. 







How Do SIM Card Works on Mobile Phones Circuit 
A 
SIM Card also known as Subscriber Identity Module, A SIM is a Smart Card that can store data from a 
cellular phone. Those data like identity, location and phone number, network authorization data, 
personal security keys, contact lists and stored text messages. Security features include authentication
and encryption to protect data and prevent eavesdropping.
But how does this SIM card works within the mobile phones circuit? How does mobile phones reads and
write data unto it?
In those particular questions above, If we learn answers unto it, we can solve problem issues regarding
SIM related problems, like Insert Sim Card and etc. 
Now here's a brief explanation on how does SIM Circuit Works on a mobile phones circuit.
A Sim Card have six pads that also corresponds to the six SIM connectors pins, but only five has totally
have connection on the entire layout.
SIM DATA - this is a digital data that being stored on a SIM memory
SIM Clock - this is a clock frequency signal that being synchronize to the digital data to create data signal 
in order transfer or sends and receive data information.
SIM Reset - this is also a frequency signal that triggers or reset all synchronization process. 
VSIM B+ Supply Voltage- This a power supply voltage used to activated the SIM circuit.
SIM Ground - a ground line voltage
The other one is not connected
A Typical block Diagram above shows on how SIM Circuit Works on a Cellular phones circuits.
In the layout the Sim Interface Connector connected directly to SIM Control Circuit. The SIM Control
Circuit is the one the generates Clock frequency that triggers the SIM data storage, once the SIM is now 
being triggered, it is then now sends data information to the application processor to begin the process 
with. The application processor is the one that gathered all data information from the SIM memory, 
initiate and activate it, if all information is in desired status.
Those three particular lines of signal flows associated in the circuit shows how the synchronization is 
being applied. If one of those lines being cut off the sending and receiving process will breakdown, 
and will result to SIM problem issues. The Power Supply Voltage through the SIM is also remain stable
otherwise a lack of voltage will not activate the SIM to work.
In a picture below an EMI-ESD Filter has been added to protect the circuit to an Electro-static Discharge 
and Electro-magnetic Interference disorders. This type of SIM connection circuit is an advantage to
mobile phone technician for troubleshooting SIM related problem issues. Thus, type of particular EMI 
filter is very vulnerable and mostly create breakdown to the entire SIM connection.
The picture below is an equivalent layout of an EMI filter and its internal circuitry,
only both frequency and data lines is being filtered.
The EMI Filter is a tiny chips designed to protect SIM DATA, SIM Clock and SIM Reset data signals that 
flow across trough the SIM connector.
The EMI-ESD Filter is a highly integrated device designed to suppress EMI(Electromagnetic Interference)
and RFI(Radio frequency Interference in a circuit. This filter includes ESD protection circuitry which
prevents damaging the mobile phone application when subject to ESD ( ElectroStatic Discharge) surges 
up to 15 kV.
Here's an example of how the the SIM data signal flow across the printed circuit board.
Note: this is only shows where the signal flows from component to component connections.
A picture above is an alternative way by many mobile phone technicians dealing with SIM problem
issues on most Nokia Mobile Phones. 







Understanding Keypads Circuit, a way to Learn How to 
Repair Keypad Problem
Understanding the Keypad circuit may help and boost your knowledge on fixing keypad problem issues
on mobile phones. Keypads is a part of user interface being used to navigate or enter numbers, letters
and characters, browse application, sends information and etc.
An schematic diagram below will help us understand how keypad circuits works and which components
or parts did this circuit is being connected.
In this diagram the each and every key switching pads is being divided and grouped into rows and
columns. Each rows and columns were group into 2 -5 keypads switch. This rows and columns have each 
corresponding lines according to each and every group of switching pads.
This lines of rows and columns is being filtered for EMI and ESD protection the EMI filter is made of tiny
chip that used to protect such EMI and ESD interference.
This rows and columns lines are digital switching signals generated by the application processor to
trigger or activate every corresponding digital data that is being stored and programmed within the
mobile phone system memory. This diagram below is an Application Processor that generates and
feeds then receives digital data switching signals.
This digital data frequency signals corresponds and interpreted to each key characters that are marked 
on each keypads. Like for example a combination of row 2 and column 3 will triggered the number 3
when hitting on it. 
this block diagram below shows how the switching signal is being triggered to process a command data.
Various mobile phones have different keypads layouts and specification. A joystick and a volume switch 
is also parts of keypads switching circuits. Some keypads module designs are made into a flexible wire 
like those Slide Type package of mobile phones. Some flexible wires are very vulnerable and common
cause of keypad malfunction.







How to Trace and Map Keypads Layout on Mobile Phone
Printed Circuit Board (PCB) 
There are few methods in tracing and mapping the keypad layout on a mobile phones keypads on
printed circuit board. One of this quick and very easy method is by using an schematic diagram, if that
certain mobile phones have available unto it. Schematic diagram is very useful guide in every aspects of 
hardware troubleshooting.
Now assuming that you already have knowledge how to use and read it, follow this simple steps below.
Browse to bottom of the pages where you can locate and find like the picture below., it is the 
keypad circuit section. In that schematic layout you will notice that each corresponding key characters is 
being group into lines. This group of keypad switch lines is being marked with rows and columns.
trace each and every lines where those keypads switch symbols is being connected, once you been
manage to trace it. configure and trace it on the printed circuit board by using an analog or digital
multimeter, just set it the resistance value X1 and attach both probes to corresponding keypads groups 
in every rows and column
Practice this kind of method with an aide of schematic diagram, in this way if you're skills grows further,
you can then trace any other mobile phones without any schematic diagram available at first hand. 







How Do LED light bulbs works on Mobile Phone Circuit
An 
LED - light emitting diode is used to illuminate keypads keys and LCD screen displays on all mobile 
phones handsets. It is being controlled by a voltage or current draws on its terminal leds.
a picture below is an Schematic Diagram that tells us how does the LED circuit works on cellular phone 
whole circuitry.
On schematic diagram we notice that the LEDs is driven by an
 LED driver chip's, and an Switching
Control circuit that also being packed in a chip. The LED driver is being used to stabilized the voltage and
current and do take control on engaging ON and OFF status of an LEDs to light up or not.
It also drives the amount of brightness or dimming status of the LEDs by applying Pulse Width
Modulation signal from the Switching control circuit.
The block diagram below interpreted a component and section or parts of an LED circuit to work during
application process.
The Switching control circuit feeds and release a Pulse Width Modulation Signal (PWM) to switch and
light up the LEDs light bulbs. A pulse width modulation signal is a type of digital frequency signal range 
up to 1khz to enable and implement to take control of LED brightness.
Once that certain signal is being received by the LED driver, the LED driver now will engage and release 
the voltage or current that being feeds up from the mobile phones battery supply voltage;
The output voltage release by the LED driver is the one that draws the LED light bulbs to light up. 
LED drivers is a high frequency, synchronous boost converter with constant current output to drive up to
5 white LEDs. This device circuit is designed for maximum safety, it integrates overvoltage and short
circuit protection when the output is being shorted to the ground. Meaning this chips circuitry will not 
easily breakdown for it is designed to protect when short circuit happens.
like for example, the two LED light bulbs commits short circuit to its terminal 
In mobile phones application methods; the switching control circuit that release pulse switching signal is 
also being synchronized programmed by the application processor (CPU) to engaged a full control on
how and which proper situation that the LED will be switch to light up or not. 
like for example the LED will only switch and light up, if the handset is being in used and remain off if the 
handset is not in used.
The above image is an example of the LED circuit, how those particular stages and components being
mounted on a phones circuits. Note that the LED driver and switching control circuits is being packed
into an Integrated Circuit or ICs.
To all beginners: A bunch of simplified STEP By STEP Procedures On Troubleshooting LED Problem issues 
on various mobile phones product will be Posted Here Later.. Just keep on visiting this blog more often.







How Audio Codec do on Mouthpiece, Earpiece, IHF speaker 
or Buzzer and Vibrator on mobile phone circuits 
The Audio Codec is a circuit that controls sound signals in a cellphone circuits. It acts like an
 audio
amplifier or an audio mixer or a sound booster.
Audio codec is the main area in a mobile phone where all audio properties is being process, during
transmission and reception. It converts the sound signal into radio frequency signal, and also converts 
radio frequency signal into a sound signals.
Like for example a microphone's sound signal is being amplified then converts and feeds to radio
frequency before it send to the network airwaves. Opposite to that process is the conversion of radio
frequency into an audible or understandable sound, and that sound is that what we hear on the 
earpiece speaker. 
A typical block diagram below show how audio interfaces being connected to an audio codec circuit.
The Audio codec is the main part which control all audio properties from all audio interfaces like the
microphone, earpiece, IHF (integrated hands free) speaker or a buzzer, ringer, head set and vibrator 
motor. A typical audio circuit is being filtered from any sound interference signal to avoid sound
interruptions. 







Understanding Mouthpiece or Microphone, Earpiece and
IHF or Buzzer Speakers Circuit on mobile phones 
A mobile phones microphone or mouthpiece is a component used to convert sound signal into an 
electrical signal. The earpiece speaker is the one that converts electrical signal into a sound signal, 
likewise also the IHF , buzzer or ringer speaker do.
These certain parts works as a user interfaces components on a mobile phone.
And controlled by an Audio Codec Circuit which is the part that relatively controls and converts all 
audio frequency signal.
see picture below 
A picture below is an schematic diagram microphone or mouthpiece circuit,
A typical and modern designed of mouthpiece circuit is being protected by an EMI- Filter to prevent 
sound interruption, before it then feeds the audio signal to the audio codec circuit. Some microphone 
circuit other mobile phones have no EMI Filter like the one showed below. The microphone line signal is 
being presented into positive and negative polarity, and those two polarity lines is being filtered again
by two capacitor after being pass by from an EMI-Filter, in order to remove the DC (direct current)
coming from the EMI-filter.
The earpiece circuit is also filtered by inductor coil to reduce sound saturation cause by any radio
frequency interruption. 
And same also in an IHF speaker circuit. The IHF speaker also have two lines which is positive and
negative line. 
A vibrator motor although this is not a sound converting device but it generates a vibration which
generates sounds, this one is also included in audio circuitry. 
Here's an example mapping layout of a Microphone, Earpiece, IHF speakers and Vibrator motor 
connections on a mobile phones printed circuit board. Each connection were both separated and apart 
from each other but all of each line is being pointed towards in audio codec circuit.
The above picture is only an interpretation of how audio circuit is being connected or mounted in a 
mobile phones printed circuit board. 







How LCD Display Interface Circuit works
An 
LCD -liquid crystal display is an electronically-modulated optical device made up of any number of 
pixels filled with liquid crystals and arrayed in front of a light source (backlight) or reflector to produce 
images in color or monochrome.
They can be optimized for static text, detailed still images, or dynamic, fast-changing, video content.
Old type of LCD are monochrome types which only display one certain color while the modern types are 
colored ones that can display rich text and images. 
LCD's resolution of display depends on the amount of pixels into it, the highest amount designed looks 
and displays best.
Now, LCd wont work without a 
light source and a reflector to drive it pixels to form an image
information.
This typical block diagram below will help us a brief explanation oh how the LCD can produce an text and
images on mobile phones handsets.
The block diagram shows the LCD gets a data source from the application processor, so therefore LCD is 
being controlled by the application processor to produce a detail images,
LED is a light emitting diode that can produce light, this light source of an LED is the one that reflect at
the back of an LCD, without this LED light reflection on the back of an LCD it will result a black or dark 
screen displays. 
LCD also needs a power supply voltage to activate its liquid crystal arrays inside of it, so that is why a
voltage supply is also very important for that matter.
An LCD Display Circuit Schematic diagram of a mobile phones below interprets how the whole circuitry
of an LCD being connected and designed. A circuit start from an application processor that controls and
sends data to LCD connector which where the LCD is being connected. Before the data reach to the LCd
connector it is being filtered for Electromagnet Interference protection. The LED light circuit and a 
power supply voltage is also provided for it is also work an important part on LCD circuit.
The picture below interprets the schematic diagram above on how each components layout are being
mounted on a particular mobile phones printed circuit board.
Always keep in mind that LCD needs the following sources to make it work completely,
1. Data control signal from the application processor
2. LED light that reflects on it back so that display will reveal completely.
3. A power supply voltage to turn the LCD activated.
A failure of these three sources will result on display problem issues.







Understanding how RF circuit Works on Cell Phones 
In cell phone repair it is very helpful to understand how the RF circuits works , for this is a big help when
troubleshooting No signal problem issues.
RF stands for radio frequency , this frequency is used to transmit and receive the data signals from a 
mobile phone.
Here's a brief explanation on how does RF circuit works on mobile phones. 
This is for GSM RF circuit only, although the WCDMA circuit and WI-FI circuit have similarity on this but I 
will try to explain both of it hereafter. 
See the block diagram below.
 Observe how the frequency data signal feeds from a certain parts of an RF 
circuit design. 
A breakdown or failure of each certain part will result to signal loss and the capability to generate, 
amplify, control , process, send and receive the desired radio frequency during transmission process.
In mobile phones transmission there are two types of operation took place, the receiving operation and
the transmitting operation.
In normal mode, RX part is always active in receiving operation the antenna switch is always open its
gateway through to the RX circuit, It is always ready to receive and intercepts the radio waves and wait 
for the desired frequency signal to catch up.
During transmission like making a call or sending a text message the antenna switch will close the 
gateway of the RX and open the gateway of the TX in order not to interfere the data signal during
transmission.
All data that has been receive and before to transmit or send, all this data signals are feeds to the 
baseband processor.
An explanation of an RF Circuit Parts and what possible problems if a certain part is damaged.
RF Receiver
 - ( RX radio receiver )
The rf receiver are called RX, this circuit is design to receives, and process the data signals from the 
airwaves during transmission process. A failure of this circuit will result to unable to receive data signal 
during transmission. 
RF Transmitter
 - ( TX radio transmitter )
the rf transmitter are called TX which is the one that process, amplify the data signals from a mobile 
phone .
Once failed to initiate a failure to transmit radio frequency signal, this will result to unable to send data 
signal during transmission. .
Power amplifier
 - RF amplifier
The power amplifier is used to amplify, boost up the radio frequency signal before it feeds to the 
antenna before it thrown over the air waves during transmission. If damaged will result to signal loss, a 
dropping signal indication on the display.
The Antenna
 is used to intercepts and thrown the radio frequency in the air during transmission
When electricity is "thrown" into the metal of an antenna, the metal reacts to the electricity at an
atomic level in the form of a wave.
if damaged or due to a corroded terminal pads, will indicate and show a poor signal or low level 
frequency signal.
Antenna switch
The antenna switch is used as a gateway that controls and manage the frequency to pass through, it 
switch the RX frequency signal and TX frequency signal during transmission process. literally the 
antenna is the signal catcher and likewise the signal thrower. If damaged the gateway to the antenna 
will be closed and result to network signal indication.
Crystal oscillator
Generates a desired frequency that feeds to the RX and TX circuits. In mobile phones a Voltage
controlled Oscillator (VCO) and Voltage Controlled Temperature Compensated Crystal Oscillator (VCTXO)
is used in rf circuit. 
If damaged the RX and TX will not work and the RF circuit is at full failure.
SAW filter
Surface Acoustic Wave filter used as an rf synthesizer to purify a desired level of frequency. If damaged
result also to no network signal indication. 
An example of the RF circuit components layout on a PCB board. 
The rf circuit components are often covered with shielding metal case unlike the baseband processor
parts which is oftentimes not. This is because frequency is very vulnerable with unwanted radio waves 
interference and destroys data signals. Using the shielding metal will minimize the radio waves 
interference.








PART 11
What is Flashing 
What is Unlocking
What is Flashing on Mobile Phones 
Flashing is installing a new firmware to a cellphone flash memory. When the cellphones firmware is 
being damaged or interrupted, this one particularly result on not powering the phone, hang up, or keep
on re-starting and a lot more software problem issues.
This firmwares were comes with different versions.
Each mobile phones product has unique firmware versions. And have also specific software that to be 
use for it. 
If you have a basic computer knowledge is more advantage, but even if none you can still do and learn
easily.
What things do we need in flashing cellphones?
In flashing phones we need ob-course 
1.)A desktop or laptop computer to run the software program, with a USB (universal serial bus) port.
2.) Flashing Device- It is programmed circuit that can synchronize the mobile phone and the computer.
3. Flashing Software - this software is provided by the flashing device seller or even you can download it 
on the internet.
4. A USB cable and a flashing Cable wire- this the wire that used to connect the mobile phones to the 
flashing device that also connect to the computer.
This one is also provided by the flashing devices seller or you can purchased a pre designed one.
Every mobile phone products have different kinds of flashing devices used, and also have different 
methods and procedures.
5. Flashfiles and Firmware collection- this are the programmed data used in the phones. See here of
exmples of flashfiles in Nokia Mobile Phones.
Below are the list of Flashing devices which is being used to flash a certain and particular mobile phone 
products.
Advance-Box
Axe Box
Cruiser Team Products
CPF-box Products
Cyclonebox
Easy-Unlocker
ET-BoX
FuriouS TeaM Products
Genie Universal
GM-Box
GsmMagicBox G
SMServer Products
Infinity-Box
J.A.F - Just Another Flasher
Kulankendi Box / Dongle
Martech products
Mastertools
McnPro Box
Micro-Box.com Team Products
Multi-Box TEAM Products
MXKEY (by Alim Hape)
NEROkey
NSPRO
POLAR Team Products
Rocker Team products
T-BOX Products
SAGEM JTAG UNLOCKER
Saras Boxes
SMTi Support Sections
SpiderMan
SPT BOX
Super Doctor Box (MTK-BOX)
TEST-BOX 2
TGT Products
Ultimate-Sam
Universalbox
UST Pro II
Ve Box
Vodafone Star
VygisToolbox
Z3X-Team Products







What is Phone Unlocking and How to
Unlock a Mobile Phones 
There are many mobile phones are "locked" into one particular service provider once purchased it. A
user cannot use the handset to switch into another service provider by replacing available SIM card
module into it.
So the best reason is to unlock the phone so it will be used into another network which is very useful
when traveling from country to country.
Unlocking is completely legal and not illegal, because every phone user own the phone after all!
the only reasons that the networks do it is to try to make sure that the phone users don't move to
another network, but all it really does is stop them using the phone as they would like to!







But how to Unlock a Phone
There are two methods in unlocking mobile phones, It varies a certain products of mobile phones some 
can be easily unlock and some are not.
1. Unlocking by entering an unlock code. Many Nokia, Samsung, Siemens, Sony, Panasonic and some 
other brands of mobile phone will unlock if you enter a specific code based on your phone's IMEI (serial) 
number. This is the most easy method of unlocking - all you have to do is get hold of the code!
There are some that offers free unlock codes and some you need to purchased it via online.
2. If a model of phone does not support unlocking by code, you need to get the phone unlocked using a
unlocking device and a unlocking software tool.







Glossary 
Definition of Abbreviations on Mobile Phones Circuit







0
2G 2nd Generation 
3G 3rd Generation 
3Gs 3rd Generation speed
4G 4th Generation







A
A/D-converter Analog-to-digital converter  
ACI Accessory Control Interface  
ADC Analog-to-digital converter  
ADSP Application DPS (expected to run high level tasks)  
AGC Automatic gain control (maintains volume) 
ALS Ambient light sensor 
AMSL After Market Service Leader 
ARM Advanced RISC Machines  
ARPU Average revenue per user (per month or per year) 
ASIC Application Specific Integrated Circuit
ASIP Application Specific Interface Protector 







B
B2B Board to board, connector between PWB and UI board 
BB Baseband 
BC02 Bluetooth module made by CSR 
BIQUAD Bi-quadratic ,type of filter function)  
BSI Battery Size Indicator
BT Bluetooth 







C
CBus MCU controlled serial bus connected to UPP_WD2,UEME and Zocus  
CCP Compact Camera Port  
CDSP Cellular DSP (expected to run at low levels)  
CLDC Connected limited device configuration 
CMOS Complimentary metal-oxide semiconductor circuit (low power consumption) 
COF Chip on Foil 
COG Chip on Glass  
CPU Central Processing Unit  
CSR Cambridge silicon radio 
CSTN Color Super Twisted Nematic  
CTSI Clock Timing Sleep and interrupt block of Tiku 
CW
Continuous wave 







D
D/A-converter
Digital-to-analouge converter 
DAC Digital-to-analogue converter  
DBI Digital Battery Interface  
DBus DSP controlled serial bus connected between UPP_WD2 and Helgo 
DCT-4 Digital Core Technology 
DMA Direct memory access  
DP
Data Package 
DPLL Digital Phase Locked Loop 
DSP Digital Signal Processor 
DtoS Differential to Single ended 







E
EDGE Enhanced data rates for global/GSM evaluation 
EGSM Extended GSM 
EM Energy management  
EMC Electromagnetic compatibility 
EMI Electromagnetic interference
ESD Electrostatic discharge







F
FCI Functional cover interface  
FPS Flash Programming Tool 
FR Full rate
FSTN Film compensated super twisted nematic 







G
GND Ground, conductive mass  
GPIB General-purpose interface bus  
GPRS General Packet Radio Service 
GSM Group Special Mobile/Global System for Mobile communication







H
HF Hands free 
HFCM Handsfree Common 
HS Handset 
HSCSD High speed circuit switched data (data transmission connection faster than GSM)
HW Hardware 







I
I/O Input/Output  
IBAT Battery current  
IC Integrated circuit 
ICHAR Charger current  
IF Interface  
IHF Integrated hands free 
IMEI International Mobile Equipment Identity
IR Infrared  
IrDA Infrared Data Association
ISA Intelligent software architecture







J
JPEG/JPG Joint Photographic Experts Group







L
LCD Liquid Crystal Display 
LDO Low Drop Out 
LED Light-emitting diode 
LPRF Low Power Radio Frequency







M
MCU Micro Controller Unit (microprocessor) 
MCU Multiport control unit  
MIC, mic Microphone  
MIDP Mobile Information Device Profile 
MIN Mobile identification number  
MIPS Million instructions per second 
MMC Multimedia card
MMS Multimedia messaging service 







N
NTC Negative temperature coefficient, temperature sensitive resistor used as a
temperature sensor 







O
OMA Object management architecture  
OMAP Operations, maintenance, and administration part 
Opamp Operational Amplifier 







P
PA Power amplifier 
PDA Pocket Data Application 
PDA Personal digital assistant  
PDRAM Program/Data RAM (on chip in Tiku)  
Phoenix Software tool of DCT4.x  
PIM Personal Information Management  
PLL Phase locked loop 
PM (Phone) Permanent memory 
PUP General Purpose IO (PIO), USARTS and Pulse Width Modulators 
PURX Power-up reset 
PWB Printed Wiring Board
PWM Pulse width modulation







R
RC-filter Resistance-Capacitance filter  
RF Radio Frequency 
RF PopPort TM Reduced function PopPortTM interface 
RFBUS Serial control Bus For RF  
RSK Right Soft Key 
RS-MMC Reduced size Multi Media Card 
RSSI Receiving signal strength indicator  
RST Reset Switch 
RTC Real Time Clock (provides date and time)
RX Radio Receiver







S
SARAM Single Access RAM 
SAW filter Surface Acoustic Wave filter  
SDRAM Synchronous Dynamic Random Access Memory 
SID Security ID 
SIM Subscriber Identity Module  
SMPS Switched Mode Power Supply 
SNR Signal-to-noice ratio 
SPR Standard Product requirements  
SRAM Static random access memory 
STI Serial Trace Interface 
SW Software 
SWIM Subscriber/Wallet Identification Module







T
TCXO Temperature controlled Oscillator  
Tiku Finnish for Chip, Successor of the UPP, Official Tiku3G 
TX Radio Transmitter







U
UART Universal asynchronous receiver/transmitter 
UEME Universal Energy Management chip (Enhanced version) 
UEMEK See UEME  
UI User Interface  
UPP Universal Phone Processor 
UPP_WD2Communicator version of DCT4 system ASIC
USB Universal Serial Bus







V
VBAT Battery voltage  
VCHAR Charger voltage  
VCO Voltage controlled oscillator  
VCTCXO Voltage Controlled Temperature Compensated Crystal Oscillator  
VCXO Voltage Controlled Crystal Oscillator 
Vp-p Peak-to-peak voltage 
VSIM SIM voltage







W
WAP Wireless application protocol
WD Watchdog







X
XHTML Extensible hypertext markup language







Z
Zocus Current sensor, (used to monitor the current flow to and from the battery)  















