















Smartphone History:  Evolution & Revolution                                                                                    
Contents
Introduction-where I wonder among other things how I became so addicted to the smartphone
The Beginnings of the Smartphone - how did this phenomenon start and take such a hold on me and the rest of the universe
The Competitors - Apple is the biggest or so I thought but there are others who are even bigger
The Mobile Device Patent Wars - one court case after another but why all the fuss. Is it to keep lawyers gainfully employed?
The New Industrial Revolution - only this time its technology and at its heart is the smartphone which has spawned a whole new brave world
The Downside - there is always a negative where a positive exists and the smartphone revolution is no exception
The Future - this is where I do my Nostradamus imitation and give my vision for the future of the world according to the smartphone 
Introduction
I own a phone that is smarter than me. I am a very dumb user of a very smart phone. It is a very sobering thought and it is very humbling to realize that my smartphone has its hooks into me very deeply. Now I can't go anywhere or do anything without it and I still don't know how to use the thing properly. 
Despite my obvious shortcomings when it comes to my smartphone when I have it with me I am at peace with the world because I know that I can never get lost (thank you Google Maps), I am only a few push of the buttons away from being totally updated on what's happening in the world (thank you internet connection), I can find my favourite wines (thank you NZ Wines and Wine Regions WA) and I can totally entertain myself instead of talking to strangers when I'm on the train (thank you Angry Birds and co.). 
My wife has noticed my dedication to my smartphone and I am sure that she is jealous. I do try and spend an equal amount of time with both of them and I also call my wife honey when I remember so I don't know why she gets jealous. Which reminds me maybe I should put a ring on it - my smartphone that is, my wife's already got one (I'm sure it doesn't qualify as bigamy).
In fact my attachment to my smartphone is scarily similar to a drug addiction because people like me go into a cold sweat and has panic attacks when we can't find our smartphone. If you don't believe me try separating a user (or should that be abuser) from their smartphone for a couple of days and see what reaction you get. In fact for some heavily addicted users try separating them from their smartphone for a few minutes and you will probably get the same reaction as if you tried to separate them for a couple of days.
Here's an interesting fact, science has come up with a name for people who suffer anxiety attacks when they are separated from their phone or it cannot be used due to a drained battery or being out of signal range. It's called Nomophobia, which is short for 'No mobile phone phobia', and no I am not having you on. But it does sound scarily similar to what I go through when I have lost contact with my smartphone.
Anyway all of this self-reflection on me and my smartphone got me wondering about how the hell I have become so addicted to my smartphone, how something so small and unassuming now looms so large in my and countless others lives. 
I guess for me my smartphone is my number one tool in my property investing arsenal. I can use it to contact my property agents, managers and tradesmen, keep an eye on my bank accounts, get info and stats on property, catch up on the latest news and join in with any property forums that are going. I can also use it to calculate my property deals and forward the details to my mortgage broker. In fact my whole office is tied up in that little piece of very clever technology.
In my mind the smartphone is the rock star of the tech world, the 100m sprint champion of the communication Olympics feted upon by all sectors of society.
An excellent example of how the smartphone is shaping the world can be seen in the Arab Pro-Democracy Uprisings which commenced in Tunisia in December 2010 and quickly spread to many other Arab nations in North Africa and the Middle East. By January 2011 the Tunisian regime had fallen, followed by Egypt in February and then Libya in August. Other countries like Bahrain, Yemen and Syria suffered bloody violence. Syria's uprising is still going while Bahrain and Yemen brutally put their uprisings down although some concessions have been made. In Algeria, Jordan, Morocco, and Oman the ruling regimes pre-empted pro-democracy uprisings by offering concessions.
The purpose of mentioning these pro-democracy uprisings is not to give a history lesson but to demonstrate what modern communications technology can enable. Many of the participants in these uprisings have commented on the way the internet, Facebook and other social media, and the smartphone helped to garner support. Much of the graphic evidence that came to light in the rest of the world was due to the smartphone's ability to take videos and photos and send them across the internet. This not only galvanized the local populations but also the international community and in the case of Libya it helped shape NATO's decision to attack Gadhafi's military to support the efforts of the militants. 
The smartphone is certainly a candidate for being labelled a freedom fighter. 
With the ability to provide so much influence on the world it is hard to believe that one of the world's most popular smartphones, the iconic iPhone launched by Apple in 2007, has been around for such a short time. From that moment on the Smartphone evolution has been nothing short of phenomenal. The success of the iPhone spurred on other technology companies who were quick to follow in Apple's footsteps and introduced their own versions of the smartphone to the world.
Seldom has a new product had such a huge impact so quickly on the consumer market. In the first weekend of making the iPhone available to the public in 2007 technology analysts estimated that between 250,000 and 700,000 units were sold. Although there is a huge difference between the lowest estimate and the highest these were still impressive numbers and the iPhone continued a strong run of sales after that first weekend. 
Undoubtedly the number of units sold was helped by the deals which Apple had forged with telecommunication companies like AT&T to offer the iPhone at extremely low prices if users signed up to a 12 month or 24 month contract. In fact AT&T reported that it sold 124,000 units in that initial weekend. The types of contracts that AT&T used are now commonplace, although they have been tweaked a fair bit to the point now where it is very easy for consumers to walk away with a smartphone without paying a cent; rather they just sign up to a contract which commits them to a monthly fee.
Although this type of marketing by telecommunication companies has undoubtedly raised the demand for iPhones it is not the sole reason.
Apple is a master at creating hype around their products and their new product launches. The late great Steve Jobs, as noted by many commentators and observers, was the master marketer of Apple. Through his vision and marketing prowess Apple successfully launched new technological products like the iPod and the iPad to hungry markets even though these products were brand new. 
The build up to their launches was manipulated and orchestrated superbly by Steve Jobs and his Apple empire.  In fact the launch of any new Apple product was always built on what came before and an emphasis was always made on how the latest model was an improved version of its predecessor.
This strategy meant that Apple always had eager buyers for its latest releases because Apple buyers were very brand loyal. This strong loyal base of buyers also helped to bring in new buyers to Apple like a huge gravitational field and it was hard to ignore.
There have been many predictions about how many smartphones will be sold during 2012. Most of these predictions are between 500 and 600 million. In 2011 the estimated number sold was 490 million. Another prediction was that smartphones would out sell PCs sometime during 2012 (which they have subsequently done). The PC market has been built up over two or three decades; the smartphone market share was carved out in less than five years once it became a device available to the masses, a truly incredible short time.
Therefore this book sets out to explain the genesis of the smartphone, with its roots in the early nineties through to the 2000's when it became a device for the masses. The growth in the smartphone's accessibility and popularity amongst the wider population due to its affordability is closely aligned to the growth of Apple Inc., the development of the smartphone from idea to actual product, the emergence of iPhone competitors, the patents disputes, and the creation of a brand new industry completely reliant on the continued development and popularity of the smartphone. 
I also hope that along the way, in addition to exploring the above, I will also discover why I am such a hopeless devotee of my smartphone!
The Beginnings of the Smartphone 
Although the smartphone existed before Apple Inc.'s iPhone these early smartphones did not have the range of features that the first iPhone had. These early smartphones were also very expensive and so they were really only accessible by the corporate market.
The very first mobile phone that could be described as a smartphone was IBM's Simon which made its first appearance in 1993. The Simon could do emailing, had a calendar and world clock, a fax function, a calculator, a few games, and it had a touch screen. 
IBM's Simon was followed by other early smartphones like Nokia's 9000 of 1996, RIM's Blackberry of 1999 and in 2000 Ericsson's R380 which was the first cell phone to be marketed as a smartphone (the term smartphone was first coined in 1997 when Ericsson called its concept GS 88 Penelope phone a 'Smart Phone'). In 2003 RIM's Blackberry featured the first color screen and for the next four or five years Blackberry phones dominated this market. 
However all of these early smartphones failed to capture the public in general, tending to be at the high end of price and market. This is why I contend that it is without question that the development of the smartphone is inextricably entwined with the development of Apple Inc. Even now when most people think of a smartphone they think of Apple's iPhone despite the range of smartphones (and the fact that Samsung's Galaxy range now outsells the iPhone) that are available from other technology companies. It was Apple and their iPhone that made the smartphone an affordable device for a much larger portion of the general population.
Therefore it is a diservice to track the development of the smartphone without first tracking the development of Apple Inc. from its humble beginnings in a Los Altos garage to the present $100+ billion turnover company per annum that it has become.
Apple Computer Inc. came into being on 1 April 1976 (most people wouldn't launch anything on 1st April but the two Steves were no fools) and was incorporated the following year on 7 January 1977. Apple dropped the word 'Computer' from its name on 9 January 2007 when it simply became Apple Inc. The main reason for this name change was that Apple no longer produced just computers; they now produced a wide range of electronic equipment including the iPod, iPad and of course the iPhone.
By looking at the development of Apple's computers over the first 30 years of the company's life the following timeline provides clues as to how and why the smartphone came into being.
Timeline
July 1976: the Apple 1 was launched. In today's figures Apple 1 sold for $2700 and was little more than a motherboard. However this computer was superior to most of its comparable competitors and showcased the engineering genius of Steve Wozniak.
April 1977: Apple 2 launched. This computer was the first to come in a plastic case and had colour graphics. While the first models relied on cassette tapes, in 1978 Apple introduced their own floppy disk drive which was far better than any other floppy disk on the market at that time.
January 1984: the first Mac computer introduced to the public. This computer made inroads into IBM's PC market but its popularity waned by the end of 1984. 
1985: the introduction of Apple's LaserWriter virtually launched the desk top publishing industry.
1991: Apple's PowerBook computer introduced to the market.
1994: the first Power Macintosh is introduced utilising a more powerful processor called the PowerPC which was developed by Motorola.
November 1997: the Apple Online Store opened for business, a portent for things to come.
August 1998: the iMac with its stunning design and state-of-the-art technology launched.
October 2001: the iPod hit the markets.
2003: the iTunes store opened online.
2006: the MacBook Pro is introduced along with more powerful Intel chip armed iMacs.
2007: in a big year for Apple the iPhone and Apple TV are launched.
2008: the App Store is opened and within a month it is bringing in $1 million per day.
2010: in another stellar year for Apple the iPad is launched along with the fourth generation iPhone.
2011: the iPhone 4S solves the problem of reception fade and your very own personal assistant named Siri. By the end of 2011 Apple had sold a total of 55 million iPads and over 150 million iPhones in four years, more than all Mac computers sold over the last 28 years.
2012: the iPhone 5 is launched with its very own mapping feature which subsequently has problems with locations, some of which are wildly inaccurate putting cities in the middle of the ocean. CEO Tim Cook is forced to apologise for the maps apps disaster.
Apple decided that it needed to wean itself off the Google maps app as it didn't want to be reliant on an outside company for one of its prime smartphone apps. It also has to be remembered that Google owns the Android platform, the biggest competitor to the iOS platform. It made good business sense for Apple to not be reliant on its biggest competitor for one of the key features of its iPhone. 
No doubt just like in all the other flops and fiascos that Apple has faced, the map app one will be remedied and the next version will be bigger and better.
Talking of flops and fiascos the Apple Inc. products listed in the timeline above do not include the failures that the company had like the Apple III of 1980 and the Lisa of 1983. 
While it is easy to be dismissive of the many failures that Apple Inc. experienced, those failures also made valuable contributions to the creation of the iPhone. The reason for this is simple; all successful individuals, sports teams, and companies learn from their successes and, more importantly, their mistakes and Apple has learnt well.
The Process
When looking at Apple's production timeline of new products above several themes always come through.
Innovation: Right from the beginning Apple Inc. computers were always innovative and well-engineered. As an example the Apple II introduced a superior floppy disk drive and this model, although getting regular updates, was Apple's most successful computer for a decade.
Apple Inc. always worked to add new features to its products. While this did cause some products to flop like the Apple III which was notoriously unreliable because of Steve Jobs' insistence that it should be cooled by vents in the computer casing rather than incorporating a fan, they were always innovative and always pushing the envelope.
User Friendly: Apple Inc. developed new products based on the user experience rather than solely on the whims and fancies of the people who build the computers. This meant that although Apple Inc. always looked to add new and better features they also kept the needs of the users in mind. 
No Status Quo: Apple Inc. never rested on their laurels, they always looked at improving the features they had on offer and adding new features. For the people of Apple it is always about figuring out how to do things better, faster, with less. In this case less means less size, less complications, and less inconvenience. 
This is why Apple products are so popular; they have continually strived to make their electronic devices easier to use and therefore more accessible to the average person, rather than making them so complex that a user needs extensive technological knowledge to use the device.
Partnerships: Apple was never shy to go into partnerships with other companies to develop new technology. They were also not shy to pull out of a partnership or to criticise and take on other companies. 
For example in 1984 when Apple announced the launch of its line of Macintosh computers for the personal computer market it took on IBM's successful PC computers. The advertisement that Apple aired during the halftime break of the Superbowl of that year took an almighty swipe at IBM. Many commentators consider this ad as one of the all-time greats. Of course the irony of this was that seven years later Apple partnered up with IBM to develop a revolutionary new computing platform.
Even in the case of the iPhone Apple partnered up with another company to develop a mobile smartphone. That company was Motorola. However the smartphone they came up with was anything but smart and it wasn't long after this failed venture that Apple decided to go it alone and develop their own smartphone.
Agility: Apple is rarely precious about their products. Although there were times when Apple's responses to consumer complaints were initially dismissive, for example the fiasco around the iPhone 4 antenna problems of 2010, they always ended up taking on board what consumers said about their devices. This agility was crucial, especially when Apple launched products that fizzled. During the 1990s Apple was close to insolvency but Steve Jobs pared the company back, focusing on products that met consumer expectations. This agility also meant that Apple was open to new ideas and willing to test them. These attitudes were crucial in the development of the iPhone.
Visionary: There is no doubt in my mind that Apple was visionary, that they could read the future and produce the products that will meet the future's needs. Actually it could be argued that they created the future, that their products took humanity in a direction that they laid out. 
Although this is a somewhat chicken and egg proposition Apple clearly laid down a pathway which other technology companies had to follow and had to try and emulate while also trying to retain a point of difference. It was obvious that if they didn't then they would be left behind.
For a more in-depth analysis of the traits of Apple Inc. that have made its products and business so outstanding I highly recommend Steve Jobs by Walter Isaacson. It was through Steve Jobs' drive, passion and vision that Apple Inc. ended up being the most valuable company in the world so this book is essential reading if you want to find out more about how Apple Inc. in general and Steve Jobs in particular have changed the world.
I do not want to appear to be a sycophant of Apple Inc. but now that you have read this brief summary of their product history I hope you have some understanding of why Apple Inc. is such an important part of the smartphone picture. 
Highlighting Apple's pre-eminent position in the smartphone world, one interesting statistic that has recently been released by Kantar Worldpanel Comtech, a company which tracks worldwide smartphone sales, is that Apple, as at December 2012, has increased its share of the USA smartphone market to 53.3%. 
Through Apple Inc.'s pursuit of more features, more convenience, more efficiency, more portability, more connectedness along with less size, less complexity and incorporating aesthetic appeal and ergo dynamic engineering principles the introduction of a smartphone for the masses was inevitable rather than it being merely a possibility.
Another interesting statistic provided by Kantar Worldpanel Comtech is that the Android based smartphone market share in Europe is 61% as opposed to Apple's 25%. In the emerging market of Brazil Android's market share is 60.7% and in China it is at 72.2%. These stats highlight the fact that although the iPhone got the smartphone ball rolling in a big way there are now other major players in the market and the next section of this short history will look at these others who have helped shape, and will continue to help shape the smartphone market.
The Competitors  
As the statistics above have alluded to the Android operating system is the major rival to Apple's iOS smartphone platform and as such has also played a prominent role in the development of the smartphone industry - a yin to Apple Inc.'s yan so to speak or depending on your point of view and who you support, the Good versus Evil scenario.
Whatever your point of view the Android operating system is hugely popular. It was originally designed and produced by Android Inc. with financial backing from one of the behemoths of the internet. Its impact is such that it spawned a new term: "Just Google it." 
As one of the most well-known internet companies on the planet Google is a household name but by the early 2000's its popularity with internet users was not being reflected in Google's earnings and the shareholders were getting restless. Google's investment in Android Inc. was an income stream that Google sorely needed.
Google Inc. could see the direction that Apple Inc. and others were heading in with touch screen technology and the continued downsizing of tech hardware in the form of tablets and more sophisticated mobile phones. Google, like Apple Inc. could see the direction that operating systems were heading in and that mobile technology was the next big frontier.
When Google was initially launched as a private company in 1998 by Larry Page and Sergey Brin it was primarily a search engine service for the internet and is now the most popular search engine in the world having recently surpassed one billion search requests a day. In 2004 Google became a public company. The result of Google's IPO (Initial Public Offering) valued the company at $23 billion, hence the restlessness (as mentioned earlier) of the shareholders to start getting more significant returns.
So with quite a substantial war chest Google Inc. was able to go on a buying spree. One of their first acquisitions was Keyhole Inc. which was purchased in 2004. This company developed a product called Earth Viewer which Google renamed Google Earth in 2005. Other acquisitions included a website who everybody knows about, YouTube in 2006, DoubleClick in 2007 which gave Google instant access to valuable links to advertising and web publishing organisations and in 2010 it completed the purchase of AdMob a company which specialized in providing mobile advertising solutions across a range of platforms including Android, iOS, Samsung's Bada, Windows Phone, Symbian and Blackberry OS.
In obtaining AdMob Google had to outbid Apple Inc.; perhaps this was a portent for the fierce rivalry that has developed over recent years in the big two's very own Clash of the 'iOS v Android' Titans but more on this in a later chapter.
AdMob certainly fitted in with Google's profit making profile as its major source of income is from online advertising through programs like AdWords and AdSense. Google's advertising income accounts for approximately 95% (as at 2011) of Google's income. Google's advertising programs on the web are the most popular with users and the acquisition of AdMod ensures that Google will retain their pre-eminence in the mobile advertising arena as well.
Against this backdrop of acquisitions, which included billion dollar plus buyouts, it is no surprise that Android Inc. was bought out by Google Inc. in 2005.
In 2007 Android was released to the public as an open source platform which meant that the public had free access to use and develop the Android platform without restriction. This was, and still is in direct contrast to Apple's iOS platform which is zealously controlled by Apple Inc. The online store for Android was launched in 2008 and was called Android Market. In early 2012 it was renamed Google Play to reflect the merging of the Android Market and Google Music sites and the rebranding of Google's strategy for its digital products and their distribution to users.
By October 2012 there were over 700,000 smartphone apps available on Google Play and there had been around 25 billion downloads so there is no doubt that Android has caught on around the world.
To have a complete presence in the smartphone market a company needs to have hardware. While Google had relationships with smartphone makers like Samsung it did not produce its own branded smartphone.
However this changed in January of 2010 when Google launched its own Android smartphone to the world called the Nexus One. Google's commitment to the hardware side of the smartphone world was further reinforced by its purchase of Motorola Mobility the following year for $12.5 billion, Google's largest ever acquisition. 
Google is now a very serious player in the smartphone market; in fact it is arguably the biggest player in the market. Google's policy of making Android an open source platform has certainly paid off for Google along with the clever acquisitions the company has made since the early 2000's.
But it also needs to be noted that Google's smartphone presence is not just restricted to Android. Thanks to Google's ownership of Google Maps and YouTube Google has a strong profile in Apple's App Store. In the free apps category Google Maps is the number one downloaded app with the YouTube app at number three. Google has an additional 24 apps in the App Store. Even more amazing is that of these 26 apps twelve of them have made an appearance in Apple's top 10 downloaded apps in the last couple of months of 2012.
Apple is tied hand and foot to its iOS platform but Google has no such compunctions which mean that its presence in the smartphone market will only grow no matter what smartphone platform users may migrate to in the future.
If you want to find out more about Google Inc. then I suggest that you read one of the following books:
The Google Way by Bernard Girard
Google Speaks by Janet Lowe
This brings us to the subject of other smartphone players. Apart from Apple's iOS system there were four other platforms mentioned earlier in this chapter - Samsung's Bada, Windows Phone, Symbian and Blackberry OS. We will look at these individually before concluding this section.
As a way of introducing these other platforms it's a good idea to get an appreciation of the relative standings of each system in the global smartphone marketplace. These figures are based on third quarter 2012 sales figures provided by research firm Gartner Inc. and released on 14 November.
Google's Android is far and away the smartphone operating system in the number one spot with a global share of 72.4% on 122.5 million devices sold. This is over double the number of Android units sold in the same period a year ago which is quite astounding on its own. Apple's iOS is a long way back in second place with a 13.9% global share on 23.6 million units sold.
The other four platforms are Research In Motion's (RIM) Blackberry OS at 5.3%, Samsung's Bada at 3.0%, Symbian at 2.6% with Microsoft's Windows Phone close behind at 2.4%. 
All other smartphone OS systems including Flash life and webOS make up the remaining 0.4% of the market share, hardly worth mentioning so this is the only mention they will get.
As you can see the number three to six spots are quite insignificant (even Apple's share is quite insignificant when compared to Android although it should be remembered that Android's market share is made up of smartphones sold by several different companies whereas Apple's share is made up of its own smartphones).
However as they are quite insignificant this will only be a brief explanation of each.
RIM's Blackberry OS system was first released in 1999 for Blackberry's 850 model pager. The OS system for its mobile phones was released in 2002. By May of 2010 Blackberry mobile devices had a 10.4% share of the smartphone OS market however by September 2012 Blackberry's market share had almost halved to just 5.3%, a huge drop in just two years.
As a result of Blackberry's plunging fortunes they recently announced that they would be launching a new OS system on 30 January 2013. This new system is called the BB10 (Blackberry 10) and it will by closely followed by two new smartphone devices. 
We will have to wait and see whether Blackberry's new system and devices will have any impact on their declining market share.
Samsung sells more smartphones than any other company in the world including Apple's iPhone. It has certainly done well making phones for the Android platform and its Galaxy range of smartphones is extremely popular all around the world.
Despite the success (or perhaps because of the success) of their Android based Galaxy smartphones in early 2010 Samsung unveiled their Wave range of smartphones which operate on their Bada OS platform. In order to further the uptake of this system by consumers Samsung is considering releasing the Bada source code under an open license similar to what Google has done with Android.
If this does occur then it is possible that it will not be long before Bada (by the way Bada means ocean or sea in Korean) will take over Blackberry in the number three spot. I believe this will happen because firstly Samsung smartphones are hugely popular and have a great reputation with consumers and as a result Samsung has a trusted brand in the marketplace; secondly other high profile companies including Twitter, EA and Blockbuster have endorsed Samsung's OS platform and these companies also have trusted brands.
The year 2013 will be an interesting watch with Blackberry's new OS platform being launched and Samsung making their system's code open sourced - a battle royal indeed.
The Symbian OS platform was first released as an open source software program in 1997. In 1998 Symbian became part of a joint venture program with some of the biggest mobile phone makers in the world including Nokia, Ericsson, and Motorola to further develop the platform.
Shortly after this joint program was established several mobile phones were released powered by the Symbian platform including the S60 from Nokia, Samsung and LG and the UIQ manufactured by Sony Ericsson and Motorola.
In 2008 Symbian was acquired by Nokia. In 2011 the code became closed source and is used only by certain Nokia and Vertu smartphones. With Nokia's adoption of the Windows Phone platform to power its smartphones in the same year Symbian usage has rapidly declined as a smartphone platform although this decline started from the moment Nokia took over the company.
Microsoft's Windows Phone was first released in October 2010 taking over from the Windows Mobile program. Windows Phone was primarily aimed at the consumer market rather than the enterprise market like its predecessor and as such was not made to be compatible with it.
Launched alongside the Windows Phone OS platform in 2010 was the Windows Phone Store which serves the same role as the Google Play store for Android.
In February 2011 Microsoft and Nokia jointly announced that Windows Phone would be the primary platform for Nokia smartphones. 
Two relevant points that arose from this announcement was that firstly they believed that the smartphone OS environment would now be a three way horse race with Google's Android and Apple's iOS being the other two mounts in the race. The second point was Nokia's admission that it couldn't compete in the Android marketplace because it had started late in the game and it therefore had difficulty highlighting its point of difference.
In the Windows Phone market being an early adopter of the platform enables Nokia to carve a prominent and perhaps the preeminent position in the Windows Phone system. 
However Nokia may be somewhat premature to hope for this because in the 2012 Christmas holiday season Microsoft promoted the HTC manufactured Windows Phone 8X as its flagship smartphone for Windows Phone 8. We will have to wait and see what sort of impact this will have on the Microsoft and Nokia partnership but I am sure that Nokia will not be happy playing second fiddle to HTC. 
But does Nokia have any room to manoeuvre? I suspect not and perhaps Microsoft's promotion of HTC ahead of Nokia will spur the technology company to produce a superior Windows Phone device in the very near future.
This concludes our tour of the other significant players in the smartphone evolutionary process. The next section looks at the many lawsuits that have erupted between these companies as they joust to retain their intellectual property rights and cement and grow their position in the marketplace.
The Mobile Device Patent Wars
The smartphone legal stoushes that have erupted over recent years have been labelled the mobile device patent wars hence the heading for this section.
The smartphone marketplace is a high stakes game and every company involved in this game fight for every single percentage point that they can squeeze out of the smartphone market because each percentage point is worth hundreds of millions of dollars.
Therefore patents and intellectual property, new hardware and OS innovations, all are zealously protected. Any hint of them being threatened is met with shock and awe in the form of massive ranks of lawyers firing off a veritable barrage of missiles consisting of one legal script after another. 
The media world has been constantly lit up by one conflagration after another as these technology companies constantly attempt to outmanoeuvre their opponents and gain the upper hand in this war of attrition. Some companies have fallen by the wayside while others are teetering on the brink of capitulation. Still others are digging in and reinforcing their positions as they take advantage of their superiority.
The smartphone courtroom battles really are comparable to the war analogy as these companies are battling each other to be the top dog in the smartphone marketplace. But what is not so obvious is how intertwined many of these companies are with each other.
On the one hand they are bitter rivals; on the other they have a working relationship. Amidst this background of contradictory relationships I will attempt to shed some light on the reasons for the huge numbers of legal battles that have been fought over the last three or four years and where possible detail the results and ramifications.  
The courtroom battles which had the smartphone at their core were many and long (there were a lot of other courtroom battles between big companies like Apple, Microsoft, Hewlett Packard, Woolworths, Motorola, Paystar, etc. but we will focus only on those related to the smartphone).
The most famous of these legal battles is the on-going war currently being waged between Samsung and Apple. It should be kept in mind that over 50% of all smartphones sold globally are either Apple or Samsung smartphones so the stakes are high and any advantage that either company can get over the other has the potential to massively increase their market share. 
The opening salvoes in this acrimonious war were fired in April 2011 when Apple filed a lawsuit against Samsung citing Samsung's infringement of Apple's intellectual property including its patents, trademarks, interface and style. Specific Samsung devices that were mentioned included the Android powered Nexus S, Epic 4G, Galaxy S 4G, and the Samsung Galaxy Tab.
Apple's lawsuit was filed on April 15; by April 22 Samsung had filed counter-lawsuits in Seoul, Tokyo and Mannheim, Germany, alleging Apple infringed Samsung's patents for mobile-communications technologies. By June of 2011 Samsung had also filed lawsuits against Apple in the UK and the US. By July 2012 there were over 50 lawsuits filed in at least ten countries around the globe.
All of these lawsuits were claims and counter-claims about infringements of patents by both parties against each other. The claims amounted to billions of dollars for damages and the legal cost to both of these companies is in the hundreds of millions so the lawyers are doing well.
However the price for these legal campaigns impact on the consumer because both companies need to recoup their losses so the price of smartphones is affected. One unknown cost is how these legal battles have impacted on the development of new smartphones as a lot of both Apple's and Samsung's resources have gone in to fighting these legal challengers.
While most of these lawsuits have not been settled yet some of the notable court rulings include the following:
USA, August 2012, a jury came to the finding that Samsung had wilfully copied Apple's iPad and iPhone, and therefore awarded Apple $1 billion in damages. Both Apple and Samsung have appealed this finding. Apple believes that the amount of damages isn't enough and is seeking to increase the award by $500 million while Samsung is seeking a decrease in the damages awarded against it or even a new trial as they feel that they did not receive a fair hearing. 
This trial was held at San Jose which is about 12 miles from Apple's headquarters in Cupertino, California so there may be a whiff of truth in Samsung's argument but it will be very hard to prove that the jury was influenced by the close proximity of Apple's HQ.
Subsequent to that hearing Apple has requested that eight Samsung products be banned from being sold in the U.S. market. A courtroom appointment to hear this case has been scheduled for December 2012. 
On December 20th Apple's request to ban eight Samsung devices was denied by a federal judge who listed in her findings that basically there were only a small number of Apple's infringed patents in the Samsung's devices and that it if these devices were banned then consumers would be denied access to a large number of legal Samsung applications which consumers couldn't get in other devices. This meant that consumers would be harmed so banning these Samsung products would not be in the interests of the public good. The judge also stated that Apple had not proven that the Samsung products had significantly impacted on Apple devices' sales.
Later on the same day Apple indicated that they would appeal this finding but they did not provide details of what grounds they would be appealing.
In a further twist to this on-going battle, on 28th December Apple stated in an agreement filed with the San Jose District Court that it would remove its allegations of patent infringement against Samsung's Galaxy III Mini if Samsung continues to honor its promise that it would not market this particular smartphone in the USA. However there are still lawsuits pending against other Samsung devices which have infringed Apple patents and the company would continue to pursue these allegations.
South Korea, August 2012 a court dismissed Apple's claim that Samsung copied the look and feel of the iPad and iPhone. Although many observers felt that this was a victory for Samsung the court did issue bans on some products from both companies. The court found that Samsung did violate Apple's patent on the way smartphones notify users when an image reaches the end and that Apple had used Samsung's wireless technology illegally. 
Japan August 2012 the Tokyo District Court denies Apple's claim that Samsung has infringed on Apple's patent to allow mobile devices to share or synchronise data with PC's and laptops. There are still other lawsuits being heard in Japan.
Germany July 2012, a Dusseldorf court stopped sales of Samsung's Galaxy Tap 7.7 in Europe stating that the model copied Apple's design in an "unacceptable manner". However in regard to Samsung's tablet computer the court found that it no longer infringed Apple's iPad patents or designs because enough adjustments had been made to the tablet to make it no longer comparable to Apple's iPad. Although this case has now been dismissed other lawsuits are still pending.
Australia 2011, the high court dismissed Apple's appeal against Samsung's Galaxy tablet computers which opened the doors to these being sold on the Australian market. However just like in every other country where these two companies have filed lawsuits there are still many other separate lawsuits pending. 
Late December 2012 has provided extra twists to the Apple v Samsung saga. In addition to the ones mentioned earlier that occurred in this period there are also the following.
The US Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) have released their preliminary statement which indicates that the USPTO may invalidate Apple's patent to the 'pinch to zoom' feature. This patent claim of Apple's was one of the cornerstones of its allegations against Samsung. If the USPTO follow through with their preliminary statement then the ruling will severely damage Apple's claims against Samsung.
While Samsung's lawyers are using this statement as ammunition to fuel their call for a retrial Samsung is facing problems of its own in Europe.
European Union regulators are not happy with the way Samsung has been using its patents against Apple. It appears that Samsung has been making patent claims for standard and essential patents, features that are common and necessary for any smartphone. To make intellectual property claims for these common features is foolish as it would then result in no other smartphone being able to be sold unless they have a license with Samsung.
The European regulators have decided that this is contrary to fair competition and have therefore announced that they would be filing anti-trust claims against Samsung. This is being carried out despite Samsung's earlier bid to appease the regulators by dropping several of their patent claims - a case of too little too late.  
In this Apple v Samsung war there is perhaps one hidden agenda that Apple is pursuing and that is it is trying to upset Google's ever growing dominance of the smartphone market through its open source Android code. Samsung is the largest seller of Android smartphones and if Apple can ban their mobile devices from the US market the iPhone will retain its top spot and Apple will also be in a position to better consolidate their dominance in the single biggest market in the world. Although markets like China, Brazil and India will soon overtake the US market it is the USA that will continue to provide the greatest returns for a while to come yet.
So these courtroom battles with Samsung, while nowhere near a phoney war, could be a beachhead for Apple's real target, Google. 
At present Google and Apple are in negotiations regarding Apple's filing of a lawsuit in February 2012 that Android infringed on eight of Apple's patents. Currently the two companies appear to be engaging in a friendly sparring match rather than all-out war but this could change quickly, especially if Google decide to file counter lawsuits or if the present negotiations turn sour. 
In the meantime Samsung will continue to bear the full force of Apple. 
One of the ironies of these court battles is that while these two foes are slugging it out in public, they still retain close business ties. Samsung continue to manufacture 25% of iPhone components and their biggest customer for these components is ..... You guessed it, Apple Inc. (not that that was very hard to guess considering only Apple sells the iPhone but well done anyway).
In fact even Google and Apple share business ties. Google has several apps in Apple's App Store and until mid-2012 Apple used Google Maps as the GPS system in its iPhones.
However I am in no doubt that Google is fully aware of what Apple is prepared to do to protect their intellectual property and their position in the market; in fact the whole world knows.
In other legal disputes Apple had another lawsuit which bubbled along for a couple of years, over patents of course, with Taiwan based HTC. This case commenced in March 2010 and the two companies finally came to an agreement in November 2012. HTC made several payments to Apple and in return Apple agreed not to sue HTC over certain patents for the next ten years. The two companies have agreed to a mutual ten year licensing agreement. Details of the agreement are sketchy because the full terms have not been released to the public. It will be interesting to see how long this agreement will remain now that HTC appears to have the favoured position with the Windows Phone platform at the moment.
Apple was also embroiled in a dispute with Nokia when the latter filed a lawsuit in October 2009 alleging breaches of its patents by Apple. The lawsuit accused Apple of infringing on at least 46 of Nokia's patents. Apple countersued in December of that year accusing Nokia of anti-competitive behaviour and breaches of patents.
Several further lawsuits were filed throughout 2010 by both companies and the legal missiles continued to be fired between the two companies until September 2011 when Apple agreed to pay a one off fee to Nokia for a license granting Apple the use of their technology. Apple also agreed to pay on-going royalties to Nokia. 
All patent litigation between Nokia and Apple ceased with this agreement but I can't help but wonder if Apple closed this case off quickly to focus its legal resources on pursuing Samsung. After all Apple had filed its legal challenge against Samsung only five months prior to the Nokia agreement and Samsung poses a bigger threat to Apple than Nokia does (perhaps it's my conspiracy theory thinking coming through).
In October 2010 Motorola Mobility filed a lawsuit against Apple for, can you guess? Yes that's right, patent violations! At this point in time Motorola Mobility was not part of the Google stable of companies; this did not occur until August 2011. 
However prior to Google's acquisition of Motorola the claims and counter claims came thick and fast and they were filed in several countries in a bid to get sympathetic hearings for whoever filed the lawsuits.
In June 2012 Apple's claim was thrown out. However Apple appealed the decision. In November Apple's appeal against the payment of patent royalties to Motorola was again thrown out. At the heart of this case was Motorola insisting that Apple pay 2.25% in royalties per device that use their patents. Apple felt that this was excessive and refused to pay more than $1 per device.
Apple's stubborn stance included its stated position that it would not pay more than a dollar a device even if the judge ruled that Apple would have to pay more than this. Apple's position made it impossible for the judge to come to a negotiated agreement hence the reason why the case was dismissed. 
It appears that Apple has missed a golden chance to negotiate a fair price for the royalties. While it was more than likely that their price of $1 per device would not have been successful it was highly likely that the 2.25% royalty fee that Motorola were after would have been reduced. I would argue that Apple missed the boat on this one and now has limited options. However Motorola has publicly stated that they are still willing to negotiate with Apple saying that: "Motorola has long offered licensing to our extensive patent portfolio at a reasonable and non-discriminatory rate in line with industry standards."
It is worth noting that Google now has control of Motorola and this will be a handy ace up the sleeve for them if Apple turns their legal arsenal onto Google in a big way. I think Apple should have sorted out this royalty's dispute with Motorola quickly so that it wouldn't be used by Google in the future to cause headaches for Apple.
Motorola has 17,000 patents with a further 7,500 patents pending and these are now owned by Google. This gives Google the ability to put a lot of squeeze on Apple if push comes to shove. By owning these patents Google has acquired further protection and backup for its Android OS platform with makes it less and less likely that Apple can harm Android's dominance of the smartphone market in any meaningful way.
One final noteworthy lawsuit was filed in 2010 by Kodak against Apple and RIM's Blackberry and a further claim was made by Kodak in January 2012 against HTC and Apple once more. These claims revolved around these companies refusing to pay royalties as well as infringing some of Kodak's key patents around their digital camera technology which had been incorporated into the defendant companies' smartphones.
In July 2012 Kodak lost its claim against Apple and RIM but Kodak has appealed that decision. We await the results of their appeal.
The number of lawsuits filed over the last five years in the mobile device patent wars is astounding; enough to keep a city of lawyers busy and able to retire in a few short years. Some industry analysts have put the cost of litigation at over $2 billion in the last two years alone. Obviously there is a lot at stake with the smartphone market valued at $100 billion a year so perhaps it is not surprising that large sums of money are heading the way of the legal system. Any company that can control a big chunk of this market will become extremely rich and powerful in a short matter of time as Apple and Samsung have demonstrated. 
However if a company cannot stake a significant claim in this market it is looking at oblivion. Apple knows this and is desperately trying to hang on to its position in the market and hinder Android's inexorable domination.
But is Apple too late and is it fighting the smartphone war on the wrong front. Although Apple has had a major victory over Samsung, and by default Google, have they merely won a battle but still losing the war? After all even if Samsung was severely damaged by this finding (they have not been as they have huge financial reserves) then there are other companies that can fill the breach in the Android wall - Nokia, HTC, RIM, and even Microsoft and their Windows Phone are all waiting in the wings. 
Time will tell as it always does.
The New Industrial Revolution
All new industries create spin off industries and the smartphone industry is no different. While this trait is shared with other industrial revolutions of the past there are several crucial differences between this industrial revolution and the industrial revolution of the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries. 
Firstly this current revolution doesn't require a huge shift of the population into concentrated areas so that they can be employed in vast numbers in the new manufacturing centres that sprang up. In fact the smartphone industrial revolution can lead to the depopulation of our cities as developers can set up shop anywhere in the world as long as they have access to the internet.
Secondly the ability to make money out of this revolution is not available to only a select group of people with money and/or land. Anybody can participate in the smartphone revolution. They don't even need any special skill or expertise. All someone needs is an idea and a plan and they can get someone else to make the idea a reality for less than $1000 (although complex apps, especially gaming apps can cost considerably more).
And lastly the current smartphone industry is nowhere near as invasive on the environment as previous major industrial shifts were with their heavy reliance on fossil fuels and raw materials. There were practically no restrictions on what industry could do to the environment in the past. Today's smartphone app revolution is created from thought and ether. The richest veins of gold consist of electric currents and computer code which don't need to be mined or fashioned in a smog spewing factory. 
Although many of the downstream industries are environmentally friendly we still have to be wary about some of the environmental hazards that smartphone hardware can create like waste disposal and radioactive material. There is also the spectre of sweat shops in Asia which have damaged the image of the likes of Apple.
We need to remain on guard to ensure that the worst practices of the original industrial revolution do not revisit mankind again. I will discuss this topic in more detail in the next section.
The creation of applications for smartphones is a multi-billion dollar business. To illustrate how big the app market is the gaming app called Angry Birds had its one billionth download in May 2012! Even more sobering is the fact that the app was only launched in December 2009 initially on Apple's iOS system but other smartphone OS versions followed as Angry Birds' popularity grew. The one billion download mark was reached in only 30 months, or 130 weeks, or 910 days, which meant that it averaged approximately 1.098 million downloads per day over the two and half years it took to reach one billion downloads. These figures are truly astounding and they can give you a headache of fits of jealousy; in fact they are difficult to comprehend but they illustrate the power of this new industrial revolution.
In the last week of December 2012, a festive week when it has been estimated that on Christmas Day alone over 17 million new mobile devices were activated and 328 million apps were downloaded, there were over 1.7 billion downloads - that is in only seven days. It was predicted that somewhere in the region of 45 billion downloads across all devices and across all platforms would be downloaded in 2012 and judging by the number of downloads over the festive week this prediction may be somewhat south of the actual number for 2012. 
Whatever the real numbers are the one irrefutable truth is that the apps market is huge.
However it's not just the apps market which has been created by smartphones, advertising has also gone through a metamorphous. Now there are companies which specialize in creating advertising and advertising campaigns for the mobile phone market.
The combination of smartphone apps and mobile advertising has created huge wealth for thousands of people. 
Although the history of the smartphone is short the history of apps is even shorter. The first app store was launched by Apple on July 10 2008 and on July 17, only a week later, it was revealed that there had been ten million downloads of apps in the first weekend of Apple's AppStore. The AppStore only had 500 apps so those early apps certainly did well. However by November 29 there were 10,000 apps so the market place was starting to fill up. A year later saw the number of apps available surpass the 100,000 mark. On April 30th 2010 there were over 225,000 apps available, 73% of which were free. The 500,00th app was approved by Apple on 11th May 2011. The average price for paid apps at this stage was $3.64. The latest number of apps available as at January 2013 is 775,000 apps. One source claimed in November 2012 that Apple had already approved its one millionth app but this needs to be confirmed.
On January 16th 2009 Apple announced that the 500 million mark had been reached for the number of downloads from their store and by April 23rd the one billion mark was hit. By December there had been three billion downloads and on 7th June 2010 five billion downloads had been made from the AppStore. On January 22nd 2011 the 10 billionth app was downloaded. As a matter of interest the app that was given the title of 10 billionth app downloaded was called Paper Glider. In January 2013 Apple revealed that over 40 billion apps had been downloaded almost half of which occurred in 2012.
In the meantime Android launched their app store on the 22nd October 2008 with only 50 apps. By March 17th 2009 there were 2,300 apps available on their site. By September the number had climbed to 10,000 apps available, 60% of which were free. By August 2010 there were 80,000 apps available for downloading and in July 2011 the number of apps on the store had risen to more than 250,000. As at October 2012 the number of apps available was over 700,000.
Android reached their one billionth download in August 2010. In May 2011 Android recorded their three billionth download and by July the number of downloads had doubled to six billion. In two months the Android store had as many downloads as it had for the previous 31 months, a remarkable statistic. By October 2012 there had been over 25 billion downloads.
As you probably now realize the app market has created huge opportunities for anybody who thinks they have a great idea for an app. Unlike the smartphone market the app market can be accessed by anyone. In fact getting an app into the market is fairly easy, especially apps for the Android platform because there are several app marketplaces that you can submit your app to including Google Play, Amazon and GetJar.
Coming up with an app idea, building it and then submitting it to the relevant app store are the easy parts of the equation. The difficult part is getting your app in front of smartphone users' eyes and then enticing them enough to get them to download it. This is hard enough to do when your app is free so you can imagine how hard it is to get someone to pay for an app.
You may be wondering why on earth someone would spend a thousand dollars or more on building an app and then give it away for free. Well I can assure you that for the most part it is not for altruistic reasons but for strategic reasons.
Developers (the people who make the apps) have several ways to make money from their apps. The most obvious way is to charge upfront for the app. While this can be a great way to make instant cash if your app is in the top 100 for most apps getting into the Top 100 for paid apps is very difficult. It is also hard to get users to hand over their money.
That is why the majority of apps are free. Developers have other ways to make money from their free apps. The most common way is to give away a limited app, hook the users in and then charge them to upgrade. A common income generating method in gaming apps is to charge for in-game upgrades. These upgrades are timed at points in the game where users are at their most engrossed and excited state and are therefore more willing, and perhaps desperate, to pay for an upgrade so that they can advance in the game.
Another way is to have advertising in the apps. When users click on the ads developers get paid a fee. A variation on this is to have links to an affiliate site in the app. If a user clicks on the link and then makes a purchase the developer gets a commission. Another variation of this is to get businesses to pay for advertising on an app. For example if a developer has an app about wines then wineries might be interested in placing ads for their wines on the app. In addition to this it is possible to place a code on the app which can be scanned by the user to make purchases. A developer can get a commission for any sale completed through their app.
Yet another way is to license your app into other regions or countries. You may have created an app that shows where the nearest caf is to the user. If this app is popular a developer can then license it to other people who can then develop it for their region, a sort of franchising system.
If a developer's app attracts a lot of downloads then any of the methods above would create a good income for them. The apps market is a numbers game and if a developer wants to get a lot of downloads they will have to ensure that the app is a quality app, is interactive, is up-to-date and reliably fulfils a need. Without these elements an app's chances of getting in the top 1000 is about as good as the chances of a one armed man winning a handstand competition. 
Even if an app has all these elements there is still no guarantee that an app will be successful. It is often quoted that for every successful app there is another 10,000 that achieve little or no success so a developer has to be realistic in their expectations for their app.
While I have said that the app market is open to anyone, independent developers must work extra hard to get their apps on the radar of potential customers, especially in the gaming category. The big company name developers like EA and Zynga have huge teams of developers and huge marketing budgets so their apps have a much higher chance of succeeding. They also have brand recognition.
When it comes to marketing an often quoted minimum figure is $30,000. Most independent developers do not have this money and even if they do it is a lot of money to risk because there is no guarantee that the money and time spent to develop and market an app will ever be recouped. Because most independent developers do not have a huge marketing budget they tend to use social media like Facebook, YouTube and Twitter to promote their apps. While this can be a long and arduous process it is a lot easier on the pocket and it can eventually pay off in a big way.
Some examples of independent developers who have made it big in the app market include the following people:
Igor and Marko Pusenjak, brothers, released Doodle Jump in 2009. Since then it has been downloaded over 15 million times. At 0.99c a download Doodle Jump has earned them a cool $10+ million after Apple's 30% cut. While their gaming app is no longer in the top ten charts it is still being downloaded around 300,000 times per month. Their company, Lima Sky, consists of the two brothers and a handful of contractors. They have no plans to release new games but will continue to tweak Doodle Jump and are looking at the possibility of merchandising things like soft toys and t-shirts.
Simon Thompson developed Chase the Dot for the iPhone. Since its launch in 2008 it has been downloaded over two million times. Although this is a gaming app Simon is now focusing on creating niche and social apps as he feels that the gaming category is now far too competitive for independent developers.
Ethan Nicholas made $1 million with his iShoot game in less than seven months. The game sold for $1.99 and Ethan said his motivation for the game was to make money so he could pay his medical bills. One of the keys to his success was to have a free version of his app and use this to drive customers to his paid version which had more features.
Steve Demeter's Trism game has earned him over $2 million since its release in 2008. In his words the key to a successful app is making sure that it conveys something special in 10 to 15 seconds.
In 2008 in time for Christmas one of the simplest yet successful apps was released by Joel Comm. iFart at 0.99c has earned Joel over $2 million so it's nothing to be sneezed at. What's more it has had little updating and work done on it since its launch. Joel has certainly come up smelling of roses.
In an industry where app developers earn an average of less than $10,000 a year Joe Kauffman has earned in excess of $1 million thanks to his gaming apps, Grisly Manor and Lost World. His company consists of him and a friend who helped out with things like photos. One of the secrets he employed to get over 3.5 million downloads was to give away the full version Grisly Manor for free with no pop-up ads and then provide a link to his Lost City game which costs 0.99c. Joe is a truly successful independent app developer.
In summarizing independent app developers I have listed some of the rock stars and there are quite a few but just like in the music world, only the very talented and/or the very lucky make it. Making apps for the smartphone for the majority of people is not the fast highway to riches. In fact for many people they have hit the off-ramp to rags. However there is no denying that smartphone apps can result in fabulous wealth but anyone who wants to get into this game must remember that their chances of hitting it big are similar to all those wannabe singers queuing up for an audition on American Idol. Perhaps the only difference is that if you make it into the final twenty of the apps market you have already achieved a lot of success.
Although most of these 'appreneurs' (entrepreneur app developers focussed solely on the app market) have made their riches in the gaming niche there is a wide range of categories:
Food and Drink
Entertainment
Health and Fitness
Business
Finance
Travel
Family & Kids
News
Lifestyle
Photo & Video
Productivity
Social Networking
Education
Sports
And of course Gaming
There is such a wide range of apps that developers are moving away from gaming apps and into other areas in a bid to create apps that have a better chance of gaining some traction with app marketplace consumers.
The smartphone advertising industry could probably mark 2000 as its year of coming into being with the very first conference for mobile advertising hosted by the Wireless Marketing Association in London. Although people had been talking about apps and building them this conference brought together many leading experts and formalised the emergence of this industry.
2006 saw the launch of AdMob, a company specifically set up to focus on developing mobile phone advertising. The company was backed by $47.2 million. Later in the same year a second company called Millennial Media launched its mobile advertising platform. Since then other companies have entered this specialist market, AdBrite being one.
In 2009 Google bought AdMob for $750 million, out-biding Apple. In response, or perhaps out of necessity, Apple launched their mobile advertising platform in 2010 called iAd.
According to eMarketer by 2010 the mobile advertising market had climbed to $1.45 billion.
In 2012 Facebook launched mobile ads on its Facebook mobile app.
Although smartphone advertising is not an industry where independent developers can participate in in any meaningful way due to the heavy capital commitments it requires, it has created new companies and provided thousands of jobs.
The development of smartphone apps, and to a lesser extent mobile advertising, has created many opportunities for entrepreneurs and the techno minded alike. While many have benefited there are a lot more who have not succeeded and in many cases have ended up worse off. 
However the app market behaves like any other market. Only those who are willing to work hard, produce quality products, and then actively promote their wares will have a better than even chance of succeeding, the rest will have to rely on dumb luck.
As with any industry there are negative side effects. The following chapter examines some of them.
The Downside
Or should this be labelled the dark side. Whatever the title I have up until now really only focussed on the positives that the smartphone phenomenon has visited upon us all. But there are negatives; there are aspects of the smartphone industry which are unsavoury and in some instances downright dangerous. 
There have been concerns raised about the negative impacts that smartphones have on their users. These concerns range from anti-social behaviour and the inability to relate to people in the real world to health concerns like brain tumours, repetitive strain syndrome and eye problems.
While I have no doubt that these concerns do have some foundation in fact the number one negative impact on users is the theft of a user's smartphone. I am not saying this because of the Nomophobia ailment mentioned in the Introduction although this is a very real concern. No it is because if a third party either steals or in some way hacks into your smartphone they have you at their mercy. Because users place so much of their personal information on their iPhone a thief can get access to a user's private life, financial life, and work life. Even if a user feels that he or she hasn't exposed themselves too much on their smartphone if a user has used it to browse the web and check bank accounts or read emails on it then a user has left themselves open to a cyber-thief. Therefore users need to be very wary about the safe keeping of their smartphones and make it as difficult as possible for someone to get access to any information stored on their smartphones.
Enough about us the users; how else is the smartphone a downer?
A smartphone is made up of many materials including gold, copper and tin.These elements need to be obtained from somewhere and it is usually through the mining industry that these raw materials are sourced.
It has recently come to light through the efforts of Friends of the Earth (FOE) that poor tin mining practices on an Indonesian island is destroying the environment and endangering the lives of the local population. Although Apple and Samsung may not be aware of what's happening on the island of Bangka it is almost certain that tin from the Bangka Island mines is ending up in both their smartphones.
The result of this unregulated tin mining has been the destruction of the island environment, poisoning of the surrounding ocean including the destruction of the coral reefs and in 2011the death of one worker every week on average.
According to FOE figures fifteen of the island's rivers are now contaminated resulting in 50% of the island population having their access to drinkable water compromised; 65% of the forests are damaged along with much of the farmland which has turned acidic because of run-off from the mine tailings; 70% of the coral reefs have been damaged and the once crystal clear waters around the island have become murky from silt which has been created by mine dredging and boats. This silt has also destroyed much of the seagrass which sea turtles rely on to survive. A combination of silt and the destruction of the coral reefs are driving fish away which is impacting on fishermen and their communities. 
In another case of unregulated mining, it is often open warfare in the eastern region of the Democratic Republic of Congo. In this area there are lucrative deposits of cassiterite (tin ore) and coltan which are crucial in the manufacture of electronic goods, smartphones included.
There is a long list of murder, massed rape, extortion, mutilation, forced labor and the recruitment of child soldiers. The Congo has a history of bloody conflict over its raw materials and it appears that despite the furore that was raised over so called blood diamonds in the last decade nothing has changed.
Western companies still source raw materials from the Congo through middle men who purchase it directly from the militia groups who control the region. 
To date no company has admitted that any of their raw materials have come from the Democratic Republic of Congo or any other country where there is an abuse of human rights and/or environmental destruction. 
FOE is calling on smartphone companies to declare who their suppliers are. It is hoped that if the supply chain of raw materials for smartphones is made more transparent this will make companies like Apple and Samsung insist that their suppliers follow more ethical mining procedures. Until these companies start revealing who their suppliers are in a transparent way the hope that they will demand better practices from suppliers may be forlorn.
Furthermore organisations like FOE are insisting that companies can make their phones more sustainable so that the need for raw materials is not as high. Technology experts say that smartphone companies could use universal chargers, lessen the time it takes to charge batteries, make smartphones easier to take apart and repair, and make better use of obsolete mobile devices. All these things can reduce the need for raw materials and so lessen the smartphone's impact on the environment.
Statistics on all mobile phones (not just smartphones) show that there are nearly seven billion people on the planet and 4.1 billion of us have a mobile phone. We are tossing out mobile phones at an ever greater rate. In 2011 it was estimated that up to 140,000,000 mobile phones ended up at the dump. This number of mobile phones has the potential to leech 8000 tons of lead into the environment; discarded mobile phones deposited 4.7 tonnes of gold into the ground valued at $56 million and 49 tonnes of silver valued at over $8 million. Utilising these dumped mobile phones would certainly help lessen the impact of mining. 
It is obvious that more robust recycling programs need to be encouraged and monitored by state authorities. Manufacturing and telecommunication companies also need to play a part by encouraging consumers to recycle their mobile phones through better promotion of such schemes and providing recycling depots.
There are currently recycling legislation and accords in most western countries but the programs are open to abuse. Often recycled mobile phones are sent to third world countries where they pollute the local environment and wreak havoc on the local populations. The problem of safe disposal of electronic waste is a growing one just like the growing mounds of waste that it is producing.
The ugly spectre of Charles Dickens type sweatshops has also raised its head although the scene is now mainly in China and other Asian countries not 19th century England. To be fair this is not just a smartphone issue as companies like Nike have also been tainted with the sweatshop spectre.
Apple has been the most recent company to have the sweatshop accusations levelled at it due to its heavy reliance on Taiwan based Foxconn which has several factories based in China all dedicated to producing the iPhone. 
Foxconn has hit the headlines due to its treatment of its workers. Accusations of poor conditions, poor worker's accommodation, low wages, unrealistic demands and draconian managers and supervisors have led to strikes and a high number of suicides including ten in 2010. The latest strike occurred in October 2012 when approximately 4000 workers walked off the floor at Foxconn's Zhengzhou factory. 
According to some accounts the strike was fuelled by Apple's raising of the quality bar. Because of customer complaints about scratched iPhone 5 casings Apple insisted on tighter quality control. However according to workers no training was given to improve their practices. Supervisors merely became more demanding and aggressive which resulted in unbearable pressure and frustration on the workers.
Other complaints against Foxconn included inadequate health and safety controls. In some factories there were not enough masks and gloves on the production line. In some cases workers were told that they had to supply their own safety gear. There have also been accusations of beatings and long hours of work. Workers have also been forced to work through holidays.
After three years of riots and disruptions Foxconn agreed to allow independent inspections into its factories. In early 2012 three separate audits found that Foxconn had breached 50 of China's labor regulations. Since then Foxconn has reduced worker hours and improved safety at a faster rate than promised. Despite some progress being made worker relations and sub-standard conditions still plague Foxconn.
In January of 2012 Apple joined the Washington based Fair Labor Association (FLA) which also includes Nestle, Puma and Nike among its members. Apple CEO Tim Cook also promised that Apple would not turn a blind eye towards poor supply chain practice. Although it is admirable that Apple has joined FLA the Association's objectivity has come under scrutiny since the CEO Auret van Heerden praised Foxconn labor practices soon after Apple became a paying member of the FLA. Subsequent to his comments many of the problems outlined above occurred. This does cast some doubt on the reliability of the FLA but I hope I am wrong. However Apple is the richest company in the world so they certainly have a lot of influence.
Apple, Samsung, Nokia and other smartphone companies do have a dilemma when it comes to the production of their products. China has a huge labor force which can be mobilised to meet the growing demands for more and more smartphones. When the iPhone 5 was launched in September 2012 by Apple it sold more than 5 million units in the first three days. Apple needs companies like Foxconn because only they have access to a workforce which is able to meet this demand.
However in the case of Foxconn they work on a 1.1% operating margin while Apple work on a 31% margin. If Apple Inc. is really serious about being an ethical company then they may need to give up some of that operating margin so that Foxconn have a bit more breathing space to better look after their workers.
I must admit that a lot of this section appears to be targeting mainly Apple. There is no doubt that they need to be held responsible for some of their practices but other companies like Samsung and Nokia also need to be held accountable as the negative aspects of the smartphone phenomenon is caused by all companies. 
I really cannot exonerate the users of smartphones either. We cannot use the excuse of ignorance to ignore the issues that having a smartphone can cause. We should be asking more questions about the whole manufacturing process as I am sure that the majority of users consider ourselves to be people of good morals and ethics. If so should we blindly accept 'blood smartphones' or should we at the very least demand that everybody in the smartphone chain take more responsibility to ensure that the smartphone life cycle achieves a better mark on the human rights and environmental score card.
I for one will not give up my smartphone but I do want to own one that I know has done the least amount of environmental damage and the most for people who have helped in its manufacture. I am willing to pay a bit extra for my smartphone if it means that others will benefit. Are companies like Apple, Samsung and RIM willing to accept a little less profit to help better the communities that manufacture their smartphones?
I don't believe they will do it willingly but they could be persuaded if enough consumers demand it.
By lessening the downside we can only enhance the upside of the smartphone world.
The Future
This is the part where I make my predictions for the rest of this decade in the smartphone world. I would like to point out that Nostradamus made thousands of predictions and that most of them did not eventuate. I am making only a handful so I have a good chance of getting most of them wrong.
But what the heck, making educated predictions based on known facts and extrapolating them into the future is fun and who knows I might get a few of them right.
Let's start with Apple Inc. as I have insisted that it has been a key player in the development of the smartphone. Firstly I do not think that it will retain its place in the top two. At best it will be at number three but could drop to as low as five.
I base this on three major reasons. 
The first is Steve Jobs, or more precisely the absence of Steve Jobs. His passing has taken Apple's greatest dreamer and innovator. Steve Jobs was Apple's Nostradamus. He could see the future and he developed products that catered for the future. Steve Jobs didn't always get it right but when he did get it right it was amazing. Tim Cook and others in Apple's leadership ranks haven't got Steve Job's vision. That is no criticism of them because there are not many companies in the world that has a Steve Jobs (I consider Jeff Bezos of Amazon, Elon Musk of Paypal, SpaceX and Tesla, and Larry Page and Sergey Brin of Google in Steve Jobs league).
After Steve Jobs was ousted from Apple the first time the company started to decline. Steve Jobs was brought back in and he turned the company around and made it into the company it has become today. However Steve Jobs isn't coming back any more and so if Apple starts falling off the pace again who will turn it around? At this stage I don't see anyone being able to carry the company forward.
The second reason is the entry of Windows Phone into the smartphone market and Microsoft's use of open source code for its OS platform. Apple's OS platform is closed source; Apple guards it closely retaining complete control. Microsoft is following Android's example and this means that it will reach more people. Microsoft also has the advantage of its Windows program being imbedded in the majority of PC's around the world. This means that it has a huge foot in the door. As people get more comfortable with the presence of the Windows Phone platform I believe they will start flocking to it because of the familiarity and compatibility of the Windows program.
The third reason is hardware innovation. Apple has been at the forefront of innovative smartphones. Since the first iPhone in 2007 Apple has continually added features and style that other companies have had to play catch up on. However the worm he is a turning. Samsung is now at least on a par with Apple in terms of innovative features and style and even Nokia has started to improve. Nokia is significant because now that it has a special agreement with Microsoft and its Windows Phone platform it will need to up its performance. Nokia is also in competition on this platform with HTC, an added incentive to produce better smartphones.
So prediction number one is that Apple will lose out to Windows Phone by 2020 and will, at best, be the number three smartphone company.
Prediction number two is a pretty easy one. Google and its Android system will remain at number one with Microsoft's Windows Phone sitting comfortably in the number two spot and maybe even seriously challenging Google for the top spot.
Prediction number three sees Google's Nexus range of smartphones the number one selling smartphone while Samsung drops back to number four due to Google's promotion of its own branded smartphone. Nokia and HTC will take up the next two spots due to the surge in popularity of the Windows Phone OS platform. Apple will drop to number five with the rest of the smartphone companies including RIM's Blackberry falling well behind Apple's fifth spot.
The only way Apple Inc. will arrest its demise is if it makes its OS platform open sourced. If it does this then Apple will be in a better position. In fact it could quite possibly be the number one company.
As far as hardware innovations go these are far harder to predict. Certainly features like voice recognition and voice control will be way ahead of what's on offer at present. Instead of touch screens it will be voice recognition screens. You will be able to use your smartphone without ever having to touch it.
The visually impaired will be able to use their smartphone like a white cane or seeing dog because it will call out directions and give proximity signals.
The smartphone will also be able to be used as a projector producing holograms and 3D images. This means that all screen content can be viewed as a hologram and be voice activated. This will create privacy concerns so the touch screen will remain. The screen will also be 3D.
Smartphones will have longer life batteries and chargers will be universal with other phones. This will be done in response to consumers growing unease with the environmental impact of not just smartphones, but electronic goods in general. This will also lead to better recycling programs with all smartphone manufacturers and telecommunication companies legally required to recycle all phones. This will result in the growth of the recycling industry and better standards of safety and health.
Companies like Foxconn will continue to operate but they will be producing less smartphones from the ground up as smartphones of the future will be longer lasting and new features will be easier to load on to old models. These companies will diversify as they can no longer be reliant on companies like Apple with its falling share of the market and its concerns over environmental and human rights issues. They will start designing their own smartphones and fresh rounds of lawsuits will result as these companies will incorporate the knowledge they have acquired from producing other companies smartphones into their own.
Because these companies are based in China and India companies like Apple and Samsung will lose market share in these countries because Foxconn type companies will be producing their own smartphones at a cheaper price. These companies will not be as constrained by environmental or human rights concerns so the cost of production will be much less than for western country companies as they will have to adhere to these regulations. Nationalistic pride will also help Chinese and Indian companies to dominate in their own countries as politicians move to support them.
This will create a price war in the West as cheap smartphones from third world countries will flood the market. Android, iOS and Windows Phone will have no choice but to prevent cheap smartphones from accessing their OS platforms. This will trigger anti-trust lawsuits and raise concerns about trade barriers as politicians in Western and third world countries move to protect their own trade borders but accuse each other of erecting trade barriers.
China and India will design their own OS platforms which will seriously threaten the OS platforms of the big three in those two countries. However western countries will not be threatened by these platforms at home as governments and consumers will not desert Android, iOS and Windows Phone.
Smartphone companies will have to continue to be innovative to capture a shrinking market due to smartphones having a longer life and fewer new markets opening up.
By 2020 the smartphone market will have matured to such an extent that growth will be low. At this point we will be waiting for the next new thing.
Well I have made enough predictions so that I should get at least one right and then I can say that 'I told you so'. Never mind that the other twenty predictions didn't come true, we will only focus on the positive.
However there is one thing that is very easy to predict in the smartphone world and for technology in general; things will change and they will change rapidly. The newest smartphone will be outdated in six months by the next generation of smartphones, new and better features are continually being developed and the smartphone apps market shows no sign of abating even though it is saturated with apps already. I am in no doubt that the smartphone phenomenon still has a lot of surprises in store for us over the next few years.
Thank you for purchasing my book and I hope you have enjoyed reading it (and you have a better understanding of the smartphone phenomenon) as much as I have enjoyed researching and writing it. 
I would really appreciate it if you would take the time to leave some feedback for this book whether it's good or bad although I would prefer good of course. I certainly appreciate readers' comments because it helps me improve my writing and shows me things that I may have missed in the book. Through your comments I can update the book. Please go here.
Once again thank you and May God bless you and yours.
Other titles by Bruce Taplin available on Amazon
Start Right in Real Estate Investing
Start Right In Real Estate Investing: Simple Strategies to Get You Going
Life Lessons From the 33 
Writing a Book?
Change Your Attitude one quote at a time
How to Win Freedom and Make $$$
Communicate It: A Quick Guide to Better Communication Skills
Copyright by Bruce Taplin                                                                                                                    2013 All Rights Reserved                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        



