




Speed Reading
 
Quadruple Your Reading Speed in an Afternoon
 
 
 
By Bill McDowell











Introduction
 
I want to thank you and
congratulate you for downloading the book, "Speed Reading. Quadruple Your Reading
Speed in an Afternoon".
This book contains proven steps
and strategies on how to increase your reading speed in a short amount of time.

Imagine the heaps of
reading material that you have to study for work... what if I tell you that you
can finish reading everything faster and more efficiently? You do not need to
spend so much time trying to absorb new information anymore! All you have to do
is learn how to speed-read. 
Speed-reading will
revolutionize your life. If you learn how to read faster, you will achieve more
in your career and other professional endeavors. You may also use speed-reading
techniques to enjoy your favorite leisure reading material. In effect, you will
have more time to spend with family and friends. Without a doubt, speed-reading
will bring you many benefits. You can concentrate on getting things done
instead of spending so much time trying to absorb information. 
This book will help you
improve your speed reading techniques in various ways. We will start with a
basic understanding of bad reading habits and will help you learn new theories
and techniques that will help you understand reading materials at a much faster
rate. By the end of this book, you will be surprised by how much faster you can
read. 
Thanks again for downloading
this book, I hope you enjoy it!











Why I Wrote This Book
 
I
wrote this book because I know that we live in a world where information is a
very valuable commodity. In this day and age, information is can be easily
acquired through various means. I want to help you maximize the information
available at your disposal by helping you read faster. Through the contents of
this book, I want to give you the power to know more about the world. Through
the contents of this book, I want to help you read more efficiently so that you
can concentrate on working on achieveing whatever goal you have. 
Are
you a student who can't seem to  finish all your required readings in a day?
Are you a company officer who doesn't have enough time to go through all your
e-mails? Do you feel like elementary schoolchildren read faster than you do?
Speed
reading will change your life!
Many
of us take reading for granted. After all, it seems to be a very simple skill
taught in kindergarten. Most of us stop learning how to read upon reaching
third grade. In a sense, we never really learned how to read like adults.
Reading in an efficient way can be the key to your success, no matter what
field you may be in. Imagine how much help speed reading can bring in your
life. If you read fast, you will definitely have more time at your hands. Both
your personal and professional life will benefit from your ability to read
faster.
I
wrote this book because I want to help you change your life. You will be
surprised by how much improvement speed reading can bring.
 
Allow
me to help you take the next steps towards becoming a more productive person.
Allow speed reading to help you live a more productive life. 











Why You Should Read This Book
 
This
book will help you improve your speed reading skills so that you can be a more
valuable employee and a more productive person in general. You should read this
book if you are seeking to learn an important skill that can equip you to
become more efficient. Regardless of your current reading speed, you can pick
up a thing or two about speed-reading in this book. When you learn the various
techniques and methods of speed-reading you will not only become more
efficient, you will become more confident as well. 
 
Learning
should never stop even if you are already an adult with a successful career.
Read this book if you are ready to take a step towards self-improvement. If you
want to commit to learning a very valuable skill, then this book should help
you.
 
You
should read this book because by the end of the last page, you will start
enjoying the numerous benefits of speed-reading. You will realize your
potential. You will maximize your own abilities. 
 
What
else are you waiting for? Go ahead and flip the pages now!














Copyright
 
© 2014
All rights reserved.
No part of this book may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any
means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise, without
the prior written permission of the publisher.
 
 
Disclaimer
 
            The
information provided in this book is designed to provide helpful information on
the subjects discussed. This book is not meant to be used, nor should it be
used, to diagnose or treat any medical condition. For diagnosis or treatment of
any medical problem, consult your own physician. The publisher and author are
not responsible for any specific health or allergy needs that may require
medical supervision and are not liable for any damages or negative consequences
from any treatment, action, application or preparation, to any person reading
or following the information in this book. Any references included are provided
for informational purposes only and do not constitute endorsement of any
websites or other sources. Readers should be aware that any websites listed in
this book may change.














Table
of Contents
 
Why
I Wrote This Book
Why You Should
Read This Book
Introduction
Strategies for Reading
Chapter 1: Speed
Reading Myths
Chapter 2:
Breaking Old Habits
Chapter 3: The
Basics of Speed Reading
Chapter 4:
Reading for Success
Chapter 5:
Creating your reading environment
Chapter 6: Be
more visual
Chapter 7: Read
more in less time
Strategies for Comprehension
Chapter 8:
Skimming, Scanning and Other Reading Techniques
Chapter 9:
Cultivating an in-depth understanding
Chapter 10:
Organizational Patterns
Chapter 11:
Noting keywords and developing memory techniques
Bonus Chapter: Speed Reading Checklist 
Bonus Chapter
from the book "Think Positively - Be a Winner: Proven
Ways to Improve Positive Thinking with the Best Motivational Quotes"
Conclusion
Recommended Reading 












 
Strategies for Reading











Chapter 1: Speed Reading Myths
 
What do you know about speed-reading?
Do you think that it a special ability that some people are born with? So you
want to learn speed-reading too? It helps to start with trying to get a grasp
of the concepts first. 
Learning how to speed-read
is not just for those with unbelievably high IQs. It is true that speed-reading
may appear to be a skill that islimited for those who are naturally gifted, but
it does not mean that ordinary human beings with average brainpowercannot learn
it as well. In fact, anyone can learn how to read faster. If you are determined,
you can learn how to speed-read in just one afternoon. 
Majority of the population
has erroneous beliefs about speed-reading. Because of these, the benefits of speed-reading
are rarely maximized because not everyone seeks out the opportunity to learn. To
help you understand the concepts behind speed-reading, here are some myths that
we need to debunk. Once you have a better understanding about this skill, it
will be much easier for you to learn the tricks behind reading faster. 
 
Myth: Speed-reading means
you do not get to enjoy what you are reading
Nothing can be further from
the truth. In fact, when you learn how to speed read, you will realize that
learning how to focus and concentrate will make you appreciate the text even
more. When you speed read, you need to clear your mind in order to experience
what you are reading fully. This technique will really make the reader feel as
if the book is coming to life. Speed-reading will give you the chance to enjoy
the book more. At the same time, it will also make you more efficient. 
 
Myth: Speed-reading is just
for those with a superior brain capacity
Speed-reading is for
everyone. It is just like any other skill that can be learned through effort
and commitment. Just like any other skill, some learn faster than others do.
Those who are naturally inclined to reading often pick up the skill faster.
However, keep in mind that with the right attitude, absolutely anyone can learn
how to speed-read. 
Speed-reading is actually
more than just brain capacity. It also involves the ability to focus and
concentrate. Creating the right reading environment is a huge factor too. In
the end, you cannot really say that a person who is more intelligent can read
faster. It is more about knowing how to use various techniques that will make a
person more efficient. 
 
Myth: There is only one technique
that all speed-readers use
There have been many
studies about speed-reading and speed-readers. However, there is no magic
formula which applies to all those who want to learn this skill. In other
words, what may be effective for one person may not be effective for you. There
are various techniques with which you can try to experiment. In fact, you might
even be surprised when you see that there are contradicting ideas about the
skill that you want to learn. One person might say you should do this, and the
other might say otherwise. It is good to familiarize yourself with all the
methods if you are serious about learning the skill. 
The important thing is to
find the one that suits your style and personality. It is important to track
your own progress as you experiment on various speed-reading theories. After
all, why must you stick to increasing your speed to merely twenty percent when
you can easily increase your reading speed to a hundred percent using the right
techniques and methods. 
 
Myth: Speed-reading will
not make you understand what you read
We think that by reading
slowly, it will be easier for us to absorb and retain information. Nothing can
be more wrong. When you read slowly, you are underestimating the power of your
brain. When you think about it, you will see that the primary purpose of speed-reading
is to comprehend the text in a more efficient manner. 
As you learn to speed read,
you will realize that you will not use the same speed and technique for
different kinds of reading materials. Seasoned speed-readersknow what kind of
material will require them to slow down. When something is easy, they know that
they can just speed up their pace and have no problems











Chapter 2: Breaking Old Habits
 
Bad habits will slow you
down. In order to really change and improve, you must start with trying to
unlearn habits that are keeping you down. What are the bad reading habits which
keep you from reading at a fast pace? Read on to find out more!
Adult reading habits result
frombasic techniques taught in elementary grammar and comprehension classes. It
is unfortunate that most people never try to improve their reading habits.After
learning how to read a novel or a textbook, most of us stop developing our
reading techniques. There are only very few adults who have actually adjusted
to the adult reading world. Unfortunately, this creates a huge mismatch between
our reading capacity and our thinking capacity. As we expose ourselves to new
information, we often increase the capacity of our brains. Unfortunately, our
reading techniques never really progress. Some professionals have the same
reading speed as elementary school children!
Developing more effective
reading techniques starts with unlearning bad habits. You need to get rid of
the things are holding you back as you to read. It is important to be aware of
your bad habits in order to change them effectively. In other words, you have
to start by internalizing your own mistakes and taking consistent steps that
will help give you the discipline to improve. In this chapter, we will discuss
some of the things that make you a slow reader. This is the first step in
breaking your poor reading habits in order to help you be a fast and efficient
reader. 
Let us take a look at some
of the habits, which could be holding you back.
 
Reading word per word
This is how children read.
They concentrate on comprehending each word before moving on to the next. This
strategy works for children because they need to pause after every word in
order to understand what they are reading. However, for adults who have a much
faster brain capacity, this is ineffective and inefficient. Taking in words
separately will make the reader pause after every word. Just imagine how
inefficient that could be if you want to read an entire book!
Aside from slowing you
down, trying to comprehend every word could lead to lower overall
comprehension. In order to  understand the work, you need to take in words in
chunks that make sense. Reading 4 or 5 words at a time before taking a pause, a
technique called chunking, would significantly help you read faster. Chunking
will allow you to read several words before taking a pause.  In a sense, it
will be much easier for you to understand because you need try to understand
phrases instead of independent words. For example: she ate an apple is
much more efficient that she. ate. an. apple.
There are also those who
have a much worse habit. Instead of just reading the text word per word, they
fixate on syllables. This is especially applicable to long, polysyllabic words
like hippopotamus and hospital.  Ideally, adults who have average brain
capacity should be able to look at the letters of a long word and recognize the
word in an instant. In a sense, these words are sight words that no longer need
analysis. However, poor readers often still need "read" each syllable. It is in
the end, all just a matter of eye-brain coordination. Adults should be able to
recognize words based on size, shape, syllables and prior learning. 
 
Subvocalization
Subvocalization often goes
with the first habit. Subvocalization, in simplest terms, makes reading more
auditory than visual. In a nutshell, those who use subvocalization hear voices
as they read- some here it in their heads, some in their throats, and some even
use their mouths. There are instances when this method can be useful, and there
are certain kinds of written text, which need subvocalization in order to be
appreciated. While this technique is not entirely useless, it can be deadly for
those who want to read intense material in a short amount of time. It is an
understatement to say that subvocalization will slow you down. There is no
question that if you really want to improve your reading, you need to unlearn
subvocalization. 
In the next few chapters, subvocalization
will be discussed in further detail. You will understand more about getting rid
of this bad habit in the next chapters of the book. 
 
Habitual regression
When you are reading a
difficult text, it can be tempting to go back a few pages in order to
understand or remember certain parts. When you think you have not completely
understood something, you might occasionally regress in order to give you
confidence that you understand the work as a whole. Unfortunately, this is also
a very bad habit. As you can expect, this will also slow you down. If you go
back a few pages occasionally you are not being efficient. In addition, you are
short-circuiting your memory skills because you do not give your brain the
chance to understand through context clues. 
When you are reading, the
efficient thing to do is to keep on moving forward. In most cases, whatever you
missed will be repeated in the later part of the text. In addition, there is a
good chance that you will understand what you missed simply through context
clues. You have to trust yourself as an adult. You do not really need to
comprehend everything one hundred percent in order to understand the book
completely. As you read along, you will realize that whatever you missed will
once again pop up one way or another. 
 
Inefficient eye motion
Reading is a visual
activity, so your eye movement is very important when you read. In fact, poor
eye movement can make it more difficult for a person to read fast. Those with
an inefficient eye motion will focus too much on one word. The human eyes can
focus on about four to five words at a time. Readers who want to increase their
speed should generally learn how to expand their gaze. They should also learn
how to use their peripheral vision. It is surprising how much faster you can
get just by learning the proper eye motion. 
 
Poor concentration
In general, people can
read. Perhaps you are one of those who have tried reading while watching TV or
while eating. You probably know how difficult and inefficient this technique
is. When there are a lot of things going on around you, it can be hard to keep
your focus. How can you expect to concentrate when you are hearing other voices
or when half your brain is trying to complete another task?
When you read, it is best
to focus all your attention on the text. Do not attempt to do other things when
you read. In fact, it is best to create an environment that will make it easier
for you to concentrate on what you are trying to do. Make sure that you can see
the text that you are trying to read, and also make sure that you have proper
lighting. 
If you are attempting to
speed read, keeping distractions at a minimum is of supreme importance. You
must put away anything that might keep your mind away from the text. You must
also push away internal distractions that will keep your thoughts busy. Do not
think about your errands. Do not think about work. Being distracted will limit
the ability of your brain to process information. If you really want to speed
read, a distracted brain simply will not do. 
 
Dropping the habit
Being aware of your own bad
habits is the first part. The second part of the challenge is learning how to
forget them. It may seem difficult to change at first. However, you will surely
be able to improve yourself if you can commit yourself to practice and hard
work. Keep in mind that it took you a while to learn how to read, so unlearning
may not be as easy as it seems. As with all things that are difficult, you cannot
really expect things to change overnight. You must work hard and commit
yourself if you want to see change and improvement. 
Practice is the key to
helping you read better. Be more self-aware so that you will easily notice when
something is wrong as you read. You have to use your newfound skills on a
regular basis before actually reaping the benefits. 
The easiest way to get rid
of old habits is to replace them with new ones. You must learn the different
techniques and theories of speed-reading if you really want to change your old
ways. Even as you learn speed-reading, you might learn that some techniques are
not for you. Learn to figure out which ones are making you more efficient and
effective. In the latter parts of this book, you will find a lot of tips and
pieces of advice, which you might find helpful in this journey. 
You might also want to
start taking baby steps when learning how to speed-read. You should not start
with trying to speed-read a hardbound book on criminal law procedure. Start
with simple and basic books that will help you assess if the methods are
working for you. Also keep in mind that not all reading material is appropriate
for speed reading, especially when you are just starting out. There are cases
when speed reading does not actually offer the best approach. For example, it does
not exactly sound right to speed read a love letter from your loved one, does
it?
When you start to be aware
of the habits that are keeping you slow, you will be much faster at improving. Keep
track of your progress and stay aware of your habits in order to avoid going
back to your old ways completely. 
It is always helpful to
understand theories and concepts behind a skill that you want to learn. In the
next chapter, we will learn more about speed reading theories easier to
understand. 











Chapter 3: The Basics of Speed
Reading
 
Reading 1,000 words a
minute may seem unreal at first, but those who know the techniques of speed
reading can easily read at this rate. Do you want to read faster too? Here are
the things that you need to know.
Imagine the things you can do if you can read 20,000 words a
minute. For context, let me tell you that the average speed of ordinary people
is about 250-300 words a minute. If you are like most people, you probably take
a week or two to finish a novel.What if I tell you that it is possible for you
to finish a novel in one sitting? Can you see the huge potential once you learn
how to read faster? You will achieve so many things in so little time! You will
even be a productive worker and you will have more time to do the things you
want.
The World's fastest reader is said to be Howard Cliff. He holds
the Guinness World record for reading 25,000 words a minute. His skill is truly
revolutionizing the way people use and absorb words. In this information-rich
world, the need for more efficient ways of learning is very much evident. Don't
you think that the world would be a much better place if only all of us could
increase our reading speed?
Like any other skill, reading fast can be learned. In fact, you
can even learn how to speed read in a single afternoon. This book will teach
you the basics of speed reading. You will understand the theories and beliefs
behind this technique. More importantly, you will be able to practice and apply
various techniques that can help you increase your reading speed by as much as
four times. 
Read on and enjoy! By the end of this book, you can expect to
acquire a very significant skill that will help you succeed in various areas of
life.
Why do we read?
Reading is such a simple activity that many of us take for
granted. It is a cognitive process that makes people decode and understand
symbols. Reading makes life significantly easier. In the modern world, anyone
who has difficulties reading will surely have difficulties in basic survival.
It enables us to communicate ideas. It helps us understand instructions. It
makes general day-to-day tasks significantly easier. It is no secret that
reading will help improve your brain. Whether you read leisure material or
something academic, the act of reading will bring so many benefits to your
life. Being a bookworm will undoubtedly improve your mind and overall well-being
in so many ways. 
One of the most basic advantages of reading is keeping your
brain sharp. Reading any sort of written material can help keep your brain
active. Among the elderly group, engaging in mentally-stimulating activities
like reading can help prevent memory decline and Alzheimer's disease. It is a
very convenient and efficient intellectual activity, which helps strengthen the
brain against harmful and permanent diseases. 
It is also good to establish a reading routine before jumping to
bed because it can help you sleep better. Allowing yourself to get lost in the
world of whatever your reading will help reduce your anxiety. When you don't
think about stress when you go to bed, you will sleep better. Reading is an
effective method to help your body relax. In is an effective cue that can tell
your body that it is time to sleep. 
Unsurprisingly, reading can also help you grow emotionally.
Studies show that readers have more empathy. This is because readers usually
have a deeper understanding of various human emotions due to the things they
encounter in works of fiction. In a sense, readers understand other people more
completely. 
Most of us learned how to read in kindergarten. Truth is this is
not the optimal use of brainpower. Unfortunately, many of us have retained this
kind of reading and learning style. 
With all the pleasure and convenience this generation derives
from omnipresent screens and internet connections, it is easy to take reading
for granted. This is quite ironic because as the internet world becomes more
and more complicated, information becomes more easily available for anyone.
There is just too much information to process. Reading a mere 250 words a
minute will definitely put you at a great disadvantage.
In an ideal world, we can read whatever we want. However, there
are just too much information available today. There are too many books, too
many websites and too many office paperwork. It is difficult take everything in
without compromising comprehension. If you've been a slow reader all your life,
it is highly likely that you are missing out on a lot of things. Imagine how
much more you can achieve if you can just read more words in a shorter amount
of time. 
When you learn how to speed read, you may be able to read two,
3, or 4 times faster. You can finish more novels and you can read more blogs.
Most importantly, you can be a more productive employee. Overall, you will save
time and effort if you know how to speed read. You can achieve so much more in
your twenty four hours!
It may seem like a big thing to learn about speed reading, but
it is really not as difficult as you think. It is easy to see why people might
feel skeptical about it. After all, it sounds too good to be true. Is it really
possible to increase your speeding speed without compromising comprehension and
understanding?
Perhaps you have been reading in a certain way, in a certain
pace since you were a child. That is just how you were taught and that style
worked for you. While there is nothing wrong with how you used to do it, you
can significantly improve the process by learning how to speed read. Speed
reading is a special skill that not everyone has, but just like any other
skill, you can learn how to do it. 
It may truly sound intimidating at first, but you can actually
learn how to do it. On the average, people read 250 to 250 words in a minute.
When you learn how to speed read, you increase your reading speed to nine
hundred or even more than a thousand words a minute. That's more than a hundred
percent increase. You could finish four novels in a week instead of just two. You
can even finish a novel and a half during your lunch break! There are even
those who claim that they can now read 20,000 a minute after they learned how
to speed read. Can you imagine all the information that you can input in your
brain once you learn about the magic of speed reading?
You don't have to worry about understanding the material because
speed reading will not compromise your comprehension skills. There are even
those who report that their comprehension skills increased as they learn to
speed read. This is because speed reading is learning how to maintain focus. In
other words, there is never just quantity, there is also quality.
 
Understanding the way we read
Most of us learned how to read in kindergarten. Truth is this is
not the optimal use of brainpower. We were all taught to read using very
inadequate methods. Usually, children are taught to read using either the
Phonics Method or the Sight Words method. In the phonics method, children are
first taught the sound of each letter of the alphabet. They are then taught to
blend the sound to produce words, and eventually the words are put together to
form phrases and sentences. On the other hand, the Sight Words method means
teaching a child to read by merely looking at the words and the picture
associated to them again and again. It is almost similar to the way Chinese
learn to read, by association rather than by sound. As the child's vocabulary
builds up, he or she is can then proceed to reading graded books. Though most
children eventually end up to become silent readers, neither of the two methods
teach fast reading with optimal retention and recall.
Unfortunately, many of us have retained these kinds of reading
and learning style.
These two methods of teaching how to read often cause adults to
develop ineffective reading habits. If you are like most people, you probably
"speak" the words in your head as you read. When you get rid of this
unnecessary step, you will read much faster and much more efficiently. While
most people can only read up to 250 words per minute, our brains can process up
to 5o,00 words per minute. In a sense, there is a mismatch between the typical
reading speed and the typical thinking speed. Unfortunately, this leads to
brain boredom. The brain wanders off as you read because you often read too
slowly. This leads to a very inefficient process because you will end up having
to re-read the parts you do not understand whenever your brain loses focus. 
While both the Phonics Method and the Sight Words Method are
effective in teaching children how to read, this is often just the first step.
It is not enough to help people understand, integrate and recall the
information that they come across. In a sense, the learning process stopped
prematurely. In order to progress and develop a more effective reading style, other
advanced techniques such as speed, selection, concentration should be taught
too. 
How can you take advantage of your brain's lighting speed if you
don't try to read a bit faster? 
It is also time for us to change our mentality. In the old
schooling tradition, it was believed that children who truly want to learn must
slow down as they study in order to avoid all the information that they are
trying to take in. This cannot be farther from the truth. We, adults included,
should learn how to read faster in order to maximize the amazing capacity of
our brains. 
 
Put away your doubts
According to the Guinness Book of World Records, the world speed
reading champion can read up to 25,000 words a minute. While many of us are far
from that, many of us can improve our reading speed by as much as one hundred
or two hundred percent. Without a doubt, speed readers have so much advantage
in life in general. Their ability to process information at such an astounding
speed is usually a cause of interest and intrigue. Their speeds might be
unbelievable but you just have to put away your doubts to see that learning how
to speed read is indeed possible. 
Some of the most famous personalities in history were able to do
so successfully. Here are some examples. 
Speed reading seems to be a trend in some of the famous US
presidents in the past. Theodore Roosevelt, John F. Kennedy and Jimmy Carter
were all known to be effective and efficient speed readers. Kennedy was even
said to have required his staff to take Evelyn Wood speed reading classes.
Without a doubt, speed reading is a useful skill that can help a person
progress in career and leadership. 
Don't think that speed readers are limited to presidents. There
are other speed readers who often remain to be modern-day subjects of interest
and intrigue. 
One such example is Kim Peek. He is the basis of the famous
character in the movie The Rain Manplayed by Dustin Hoffman in 1998. It
was said that he could read a book's left page with his left eye and the book's
right page with his right eye. On the average, it was said that he can read
about 10,000 words a minute. 
Evelyn Wood is a famous public figure who stood by the belief
that speed reading can be learned by anyone. In other words, she made speed
reading available for ordinary people rather than just the gifted ones. Even up
to the last decades of her life, she remained an ardent educator and businessperson
who encouraged others to use her technique. 
More recently, Anne Jones blew the world away by reading Harry
Potter and the Deathly Hallows by J.K. Rowling in just forty-seven minutes.
This means that she read the book at the rate of more than 4,000 words. To
prove that she understood the contents of what she read, she even provided a
detailed summary and book review of the contents. 
 
You can be a speed reader too!
Don't think that speed reading is reserved for people who are
born with special skills. You may still learn to increase your speed by learning
the proper way to process information according to your brain speed. It does
not matter if you are young or old, you can learn how to speed read no matter
what is your age. Though you probably won't read like any of the personalities
mentioned above, you can easily increase from 250 words per minute to 800 words
per minute.
Compared to the reading giants, 800 words might not seem like
all that. However, it is actually a big jump. Just by learning the basic of
speed reading, you will significantly reduce the time you spend on absorbing
and understanding information. 
Many readers don't maximize their skills because of fear. Before
even starting how to learn the important techniques of speed reading, they
already ask "How can I do that? Is that even possible?" If you start this
journey from a place of doubt, things will be very difficult for you. It is
always good to start a quest with a positive mindset. Believe that you can
achieve your goal. Trust that you can increase your reading speed by as much as
a hundred percent! Maybe even more!
You
can be a speed reader too. And the things you achieve when you read fast can significantly
help you with your other achievements in life. 











Chapter 4: Reading for Success
 
Now that you already know
the theories, you can work on trying to improve your reading habits in order to
increase your speed. In this chapter, you will find tips and an action plan
that could help you read significantly faster. 
As adults, we know that reading means more than going through
the words. In order to be a successful reader, you need to retain the
information that you get from the materials you read. When you want to learn
how to speed read you have to start by keeping in mind that a person's reading
ability is not inborn. There are methods that average students can use to
improve. You must also remember that it is never too late to learn. If you truly
want to understand, how these methods work, you have to see yourself as a
student again. 
In a sense, a reader must learn two things in order to be a fast
reader: high-speed comprehension of the reading material and the ability to
recall important points during tests. Included in these two skills is the
ability to organize information and connect them to previous knowledge in order
to present a complete understanding of the material. This might sound simple at
first, but not everyone is successful in making this formula work. 
You can learn these skills and apply them in your daily life in
order to make you a more productive student or professional! In all reality,
things are not as difficult as they seem. 
You will be surprised to know that speed reading can be learned
regardless of age and current educational attainment. It is never too late to
learn how to increase your reading speed!
There are success stories of people who learned to speed read
effectively. 
If you think about the implications of speed reading, you will
realize that it will undoubtedly make lives easier. Learning this skill can
help you finish a two-hundred page book just thirty-five minutes. Your
colleagues and your family will benefit from your speed reading too. When you
finish your work faster, you can spend more time with your loved ones. 
Preliminary understanding
There are generally two types of reading. The first one involves
creating the sound with your mouth. Subvocalization, as this method is often
called, involves the pronunciation of the words as a person speaks. It may be
silent and inaudible but the expression of the sounds is still there. Though
subconsciously, the movement of the tongue and mouth are still there. The
second one involves thought stream. This method consists of an understanding of
imagery with no reproduced sounds at all.
Measuring your speed
Do you have an idea of how fast you read? Chances are, you read
using subvocalization techniques (for now). If you do, your current speed of
reading is probably around 200-300 words per minute. Don't worry, with enough
training, you can increase your subvocalization reading for up to 900 words! 
So how do you think do you fare?
If you read 200 to 300 minutes a minute, you are quite an
inefficient reader. It is highly-likely that you did not spend your childhood
with your nose buried in books. It is also very likely that you are reading
infrequently. You have probably lost the skill of focusing on words as you
read. Your mind and concentration are likely wandering off as you flip through
the pages of your reading material. This leads you to have a reading rate that
is subpar when compared to the typical rate of other readers. 
If you read 301 t0 599 words a minute, you are somewhere in the
average. This means that you can concentrate on the material handed to you for
reading. Your mind doesn't wander off and you know how to keep your focus as
you browse through the pages. Most likely, you developed this speed through
reading frequently and consistently. Though you are an efficient reader, your
techniques can still be improved. 
If you read 600-900 words, then congratulations! You have
reached the absolute maximum reading level for subvocalization reading. This is
a significant achievement that only a few people are able to achieve. You have
developed amazing skill in reading word per word, line per line. Indeed you
might be a fast reader but if you continue reading using subvocalization
techniques, you will never improve.  
No matter what your current rate is, you can still improve your
reading speed by learning various speed reading techniques. As you read this
book, keep in mind that you need a clear understanding of the basics of the
concepts that can help you improve your reading speed. Do not jump directly to
that last chapter without understanding the content of the first chapters
because you might have a lot of difficulty in applying the techniques.
Let's get started by discussing some of the basics of reading.
Understanding subvocalization
Let us start with understanding the basics of subvocalization. 
You can easily tell that a person is using this method if he or
she moves his or her eyes from the left to the right, in a linear way. This
pattern continues line by line until the page is finished. In a nutshell, the
dominant eye movement is left to right all across the page. This is the way
that most children in school read. As said before, this way of reading is
inefficient. Such a style simply takes up too much time. Using this method, the
maximum number of words that a person can read is up to 350 words per minute. There
are those who can read up to 900 words per minute using the subvocalization
technique, but this rate is quite difficult to achieve, and it requires a
high-rate of concentration that can be extremely exhausting.
Although this method is generally seen as ineffective in
absorbing a large quantity of material, it still has a lot of uses. For
example, for poetic works of literature, it is satisfying to savor every single
word and every single sound. To feel the poem, it could even be better to read
the words out loud. It would be difficult to appreciate poetry and prose if you
just speed read through the words. If you are writing poetry, it is highly
likely that you will find yourself reading out the words too. This is to check
if the words you chose sound right when put together. 
Subvocalization is also useful when studying difficult material
with a lot of technical language, like law of medicine. Although there are
people who are able to successfully speed read difficult material, the
technique is to just speed read the overview and then eventually go back to the
difficult parts which take some time and effort to understand. Subvocalization
is also useful when you want to double-check information. When you want to
double-check if you misinterpreted what the author has to say, it is better to
read the material at your regular pace in order to understand the idea better. 
Also, it is best to use subvocalization when you read material
that is meant to be spoken. For example, a play or a dialogue would be easier
to appreciate, understand and imagine if one reads it using subvocalization. After
all, this kind of work is meant to be spoken. To appreciate dialogue, it is
best to hear the words spoken, even if just in your head.
Even speed readers who have proven skill in reading fast still
need to learn subvocalization. They also know how to slow down a bit in order
to appreciate works that are meant to read at a slower pace. There are experts
who claim that works of literature should never be read at a fast pace because
it makes it difficult to appreciate the works of the authors who painstakingly
chose every single word to go on print. There are those who believe that in
order to understand literature more completely, a person should first get an
overview of the work by skimming the book before actually diving into the text.

Proponents of speed reading believe that the various techniques
of speed reading may still be used and applied to literature. They claim that
reading the book faster does not only improve intellectual absorption, it also
improves emotional absorption as well. 
In the end, how to read a particular work of literature is
always the choice of the reader. It all depends on the purpose of the act. Are
you reading for an upcoming test? In this case, you might want to speed it up
to ace your exam. Or are you reading for your own pleasure? If you are, then
you might want to read works of literature at a much slower pace. 
Improving subvocalization
Many proponents of speed reading insist on removing
subvocalization altogether. However, this is not supposed to be immediate. One
approach that can help you read much faster is to maximize your ability to read
using subvocalization before removing this technique altogether. It is always a
good idea to improve this skill because proficiency in this technique will
improve your reading speed even as you use other speed reading methods.
So the first and most basic step of speed reading is learning
how to fine tune your subvocalization techniques. Think of this essential step
as you prepare to quadruple your reading speed in an afternoon!
Improving your subvocalization techniques does not involve any
sort of magic. All that you really have to do is make your reading technique
more efficient and effective. In a sense, it's really all just common sense. 
So how do you fine tune your subvocalization techniques? Here
are some ideas that could help you!
 
Make sure that you can see everything clearly
You will be surprised by the number of people who ignore this
significant step. Imagine how uncomfortable things would be if you cannot even
read the words comfortably. This will surely slow you down. In addition to
this, there is always the risk that you will get headaches if you force your
eyes to go beyond their ability. Forcing yourself to read something you cannot
even see clearly may even have long-term repercussions. In the long-run,
forcing your eyes to see might lead to higher prescription grade. You may even
acquire unwanted eye problems. 
It is best to have your eyes checked regularly. Are you
near-sighted or far-sighted? So you think you might need a higher prescription
grade? To maximize the ability of your eyes, it is best to have them checked by
an ophthalmologist. 
When you make sure that you can see everything, you will
significantly make it easier for you to read faster and better. There will no
longer be anything that blocks your progress. Furthermore, you will prevent any
kind of damage to your eyes. If you want to read until you grow old, you really
must take this essential step to prevent any kind of eye problem that will
truly slow you down. 
 
Read in a comfortable environment
Most of us think of reading as something that is supposed to be
"relaxing". What most of us don't realize is that by being relaxed, we make a
lot of unnecessary compromise. We end up spending more time doing something
that we can finish more easily. Instead of trying to create a relaxing
environment, go for a comfortable environment instead. By comfortable, I mean
something appropriate for reading, not something appropriate for sleeping. 
There are many factors that affect a reading environment. In a
nutshell, it is essential to choose a quiet, well-lit corner, which will allow
you to read comfortably. 
Choose a chair that is upright. It can be tempting to lie down
and relax but that position will compromise so many things. It is also best to
condition your body that lying down is for rest and sleep.  It is best to check
your lighting too. Make sure that it is neither too dark nor too cold in order
to help you see the words more clearly. 
 
Increase your vocabulary
Ideally, you should have done this in your younger years, but
there is really noend to learning about words. No matter what your age is, you
can work on learning new words in order to increase your vocabulary. While it
is possible to increase your vocabulary as you read through context clues, it
is best to learn vocabulary at a separate time. 
One technique to make your vocabulary wider is to understand the
concept of root words, prefixes and suffixes. This may indeed sound elementary
to some of you, but you'll be surprised by how much easier it will be for you
to understand new words (even foreign ones) if you have a strong understanding
of the basic root words.
As you grow more mature, it is probably better to familiarize
yourself with various technical terms because it will likely encounter
technical terms as you read material for work. It would be god to know the
basics of marketing, law, medicine and even the stock market. You never really
know when you will need these terms. 
 
Force yourself to read faster
Some people don't like speed reading because they fear that it
reduces comprehension. This is not true. You can read fast and at the same time
retain the information in your head. 
To increase your speed, you must force yourself to read faster
and faster. You don't have to worry about your brain because it has the
capacity to process the information. You don't even need to read every word.
Just read and read and read until you get used to this kind of pace and speed. 
 
Always get ready to turn the page
Assuming an attitude that sees reading as something active will
make you read faster. Always get ready to turn the page so that you have the
mentality and understanding that words need to be read quickly. It is easy to
turn pages when you are reading an exciting story that makes you want to know
what will happen next. Try to maintain this attitude no matter what kind of
reading material you have.
Learning how to turn the turn the pages is essential in
increasing your speed. There is no hard and fast rule that must be used and
applied by everyone. Just look for the position, which will allow you to turn
the pages comfortably. In fact, the comfortable position for right-handed
people might be different for the comfortable position for the left-handed
people. The important thing is to find the most comfortable position, which
will allow you to turn the pages quickly and efficiently. Also, it is important
to time when you are going to turn the page. Some say that it is important to
position your finger to turn the page when you are in the middle of the
right-hand page.
 
Do not read back
When you are not used to reading fast, the temptation to go back
and re-read a material is strong. You might feel that you did not understand
what happened or you did not get the point of the author. Let me tell you that
regressing as you read is simply a bad idea. It is inefficient and it just
slows you down unnecessarily.
Chances are, you will understand what you missed if you just
keep going forward. Unless you are reading something highly-technical, you will
likely get the chance to once again come across whatever you missed. It is also
possible that what you missed is actually not important at all. 
To protect yourself from having the need to read back, it is
important to maintain one hundred percent focus when you read. Keep your focus
on the material that you are reading so that your mind will not have the luxury
of wandering off. 
Also, resist the urge to read and re-read everything again and
again in order to grip the material completely. Let go of the fear of not
understanding and just trust your own comprehension skills. 
As a matter of fact, regressing not only makes you a slow
reader, it also reduces understanding of the material. So in the end, you don't
really understand more just because you read the same thing over and over
again.
 
Focus more
In truth, most of us will easily read faster if only we focus
more. In a sense, there is really no special technique that will help you
increase your subvocalization reading (to truly speed read, you will have to go
past this). Just by fixing your reading circumstances, you can already increase
your reading speed significantly! Imagine how much faster you can be if you
train yourself to use the proper speed reading techniques. 
Improving your subvocalization reading technique is important
because allows you to see the importance of setting up a proper reading
environment in order to increase your speed. In other words, it changes your
mindset. You probably now see that while leisure reading is okay, you must
truly prepare yourself and your environment if you want to read more
effectively and more efficiently. To absorb information faster, you must make
certain preparations that can make the circumstances more comfortable for
learning. 
Also, your biggest take away from improving your ability to read
with subvocalization is developing your ability to focus. If you want to read
fast, you have to train your mind to concentrate on the material presented to
you. You will need this essential skill as you learn the other kind of reading
style 










In a sense, just by creating the right kind of
environment and learning how to focus your attention, you can already double or
even triple your own reading speed.    











Chapter 5: Creating your reading environment
 
As a child, you probably had a study table where you were did
your homework and study as ordered by your parents. If you are still a student
now, I hope that you still have such space, which is devoted entirely to
completing academic tasks. If you are now a working professional, I hope that
your work environment is arranged in a way that will make it comfortable for
you to work. 
This chapter is all about action. I want to help you create the
perfect reading environment first, and then we'll work on keeping your focus to
help you keep your concentration as you read. 
 
No to multi-tasking 
Multitasking
often creates the impression that you are achieving a lot of things. However,
this is often untrue. Multitasking just forces you to shift your attention from
one task to another. In the end, you end up more inefficient because your brain
is trying to manage more than one task. The need to switch from one thing to
another takes up more time and energy than you think. 
You
might think that you are a multi-tasker, but this is probably untrue. If you
are an ordinary person, juggling your to-do list is probably a bad idea. So
rather than trying to do more all at the same time, it is better to focus more
on one task so that it gets finished quicker. You can then move on to your next
task as needed. 
In
the past, this wasn't such a big problem. People used to have the power to
concentrate. Unfortunately, it seems that in this modern day and age,
concentrating on something seems to be getting more and more difficult by the
day. Blame it on technology, blame it on the glorification of business... the
point is this kind of belief must be stopped. 
If
you really want to speed up your reading, you must drop all the other things
you do, the moment that you touch your book. Don't read while cooking, don't
read while watching the TV, and don't read while jogging on a treadmill. 
In
addition to this, put your whole focus on reading the words when you are
reading. Don't think about what to cook for dinner or where to go on the
weekend. You must be completely present whenever you are reading. 
 
Creating
the perfect space
In
the previous chapter, we talked about the importance of creating a comfortable
reading environment to maximize your reading speed. Now, let's get into
details. How exactly does a perfect reading space look like?
It
all starts with a quiet and secluded space that is ideal for reading. If you
want to increase your reading speed, you must prepare yourself for some degree
of seclusion in a place that is quiet (or with a healthy amount of
noise/music). If you have an office or study table, make sure that it is
positioned away from the television and that you are not surrounded by a lot of
various distractions that can make reading more difficult for you. If you are a
student, stay away from other students who might opt to play around instead of
study. 
Lighting
and furniture are important too. Sit in a comfortable chair and choose good
lighting to make it easier for you to see the material. Choose a chair with a
good backrest to avoid damaging your back. It is a bad idea to read in a soft
couch because you might end up sleeping. Don't lie down either. 
Ideally,
your table should be free from anything other than the book you're reading. If
you think you might need to do some writing as you read, prepare your materials
too. All that you need should be within your reach. You shouldn't be spending a
lot of time getting up to grab stuff in the middle of your book. 
Condition
yourself that whenever you are in this place and in this position, you will
study. It helps if your mind is conditioned to focus whenever you want to read.
It may seem difficult at first but eventually, you will get the hang of it. 
 
Exercising
focus
Our
current generation is offered so much distraction. There always seems to be an
abundance of things to do. Focus is all about developing a good routine.
Developing your focus is all about channeling all your energy to complete a
task.
Train
yourself to focus on one thing, and don't allow yourself to be distracted. Give
your whole self when you are trying to complete a task. This is the principle
behind yoga. It is a good mental exercise because it allows the practitioners
of yoga to focus on achieving a pose for a long time before moving on to
something new. 
 If
you've been a scatterbrain all your life, don't get frustrated. You can start
small. Focus your brain on small tasks for a short time. Read short books and
eventually just progress to thicker novels. Increase your exercises in small
steps until you achieve the level of focus with which you are comfortable. 











Chapter 6: Be more visual
 
Reading is primarily a
visual activity. Many of us make it auditory. Here are several tips that can
help you maximize your eyes as you read. 
When you use subvocalization, it takes several steps for a
person to understand an idea. It is usually one. See two. Say. 3. Understand.
4. Stop 5. Move. These five steps might indeed happen more quickly than they
appear. However, it is easy to see that there are too many steps involved. The
key to going past the limits of subvocalization is to change the process
completely. If you want to speed read, you must unlearn your old way of reading
to learn something more effective. 
This time, it is important to go past the childish way of
reading words phonetically. We will try to learn the principles of reading more
visually. After all, you don't need ears to read, do you? 
Efficient reading is all about eliminating the processes that
make you inefficient as a reader. In a nutshell, here are the things you need
to understand about the concept.
First, keep in mind that reading fast is about eliminating the
voices in your head. In other words, you eliminate one step that takes up a lot
of time. You must now one. See, and two. Understand. You eliminated an
essential step. You must read like how you interpret the colors of a traffic
light. Red is automatically stop, and green is automatically go. You don't
really say "stop" and "go", do you? Not even in your head. This is how you
should read.
Second, you must look at the last two steps of the workflow
above: 4. Stop 5. Move. You may not realize it, but when you use
subvocalization, you actually stop after every word before moving on to the
next. This explains the left to right motion of a reader using subvocalization
techniques. Stopping and moving after every word can be time-consuming. If you
want to speed up, the technique is to take in as much words before stopping.
You must read in chunks so that you don't have to stop after every word.
Furthermore, you have to read in a way that there is no stop-move pattern
anymore. You must learn how to look at a page in a way that you would look at
an artwork or painting. 
Now let's get into the details. This is going to be your game
plan to increase your reading speed. 
 
Stop the voices in your head
You must make sure that the voices in your head are dead. We are
going to help you develop thought-reading in order to ensure that you are no
longer using subvocalization techniques. 
In a sense, thought-reading is about what you see rather than
what you hear. You need to develop the ability to look at letters without
having the urge to put the sounds together. It is a kind of reading technique
that doesn't connect the letters to the vocal organs. Here are some techniques
that will help you with improving your thought-streaming techniques. 
First, look at a page of something that is easy to read. Now, go
through the words as fast as you can (not necessarily line by line) without
making sounds in your head. Finish the page and try to summarize the idea of
the entire text. If you find yourself going back to parts that you cannot
understand, it is likely that you were using thought-reading when you looked at
the page but you want to go back to subvocalization in order to understand the
difficult part. When you use thought-reading, you will have no problems when
you understand the text, but you will sense a red alert whenever there is a
group of words that don't make sense. 
To develop your thought-reading skills, you may try counting
1-10 as you read the words on the text. Since the motor-vocal system is already
occupied due to a different task. You can replace counting with various other
sounds if you wish. You can even use something as simple as "eee... eee... eee".
The point is to keep the vocal-motor system preoccupied. 
Now as you begin to see the differences between these two
reading techniques clearly, you can increase your words per minute using the
thought-reading technique. 
 
Try to see
words out of their normal expectancy order
In
the traditional techniques used in reading, you will read the words line by
line. If you want to speed read, you must unlearn this technique. In fact, the
entire logic of looking at the words as something constructed next to each
other must be destroyed completely. 
Start
by dividing a page into quadrants. Divide it horizontally then vertically. Read
the one at the upper left quadrant first, then the upper right quadrant, then
the lower left quadrant and then the lower right quadrant. 
As
you see the words, try to absorb what you see in a stream of thought. You will
be surprised at how your mind has the ability to make sense of the written work
even if the words are not I order. At first, you might feel like you missed
important details, but this technique can actually help you get the complete
picture of what the author is trying to say and what the story is all about. 
It
is true that this technique requires some practice. However, even when you try
it out for the first time, you will realize that you are capable of
understanding many things even if you don't follow the traditional order of
reading. It is important to become truly confident about this technique in
order to increase your speed. 


Believe
your eyes alone
The
success of this technique greatly depends on how much you trust your eyes. Aside
from turning off the voice inside your head, the other challenge is about
letting go of the traditional eye movement that is used in reading. Now you
must learn to read vertically.  It is against your intuition, it is against how
you were taught, but you have to trust that this is an effective method. Let go
of the sound of the words, and let of the need to hear the sound of the words
together. You can chunk words together but you don't need to form sentences
anymore. You just have to accept even if it does not make sense at first. 
Read
vertically and try to increase the number of words you grasp in one look. It is
a good idea to use your peripheral vision in order to see more words in a
shorter amount of time.
 
Don't
start reading with an empty brain
When
you read a book, it is always a good idea to have good idea on what the
background of the text is. Try to understand who wrote it, why it was written
and why it was written. In a sense, you should have a background and overview
of what you are reading so that it would be easier for you to understand and
interpret whatever is in the text. This essential step will give you an overall
understanding of the text so it is extremely important for you to do your
research before plunging into the actual reading. 
In
this day and age, you can easily use the internet to help make reading easier
for you. Read about the author, read about the context. You may even read a
summary if you wish. Don't forget to look at the table of contents so that
you'll have a good idea of what to expect when you read. 
As
you try to understand the overview of the book, try to assess what you are
about to read. Will it be difficult? Will you encounter difficult terminology?
You need to psych up yourself if you know that you will be encountering
difficult material. It will be easier for you to understand the content if you
know the context. 











Chapter 7: Read more in less time
 
Just like any other skill,
you can improve speed reading through practice. There are various speed reading
exercises that can help you hone your skill. Here are some that you might find
useful.
Regardless of the nature of the material that you are reading,
it is important to get the most of whatever you read. This means two things: 1.
You should be able to read as much as possible and 2. You should be able comprehend
the material as much as you can. You can work on these two things by
continually exercising your brain until you meet your goal. 
Here are some exercises that can help you improve your speed
reading skills. 
For the first goal, you can give yourself a limited amount time
(for example, five minutes), and just read and read and read without stopping.
Go as fast as you can without minding anything. Check how many pages you can
read when the time is up. Naturally, the goal is to increase the number of
pages as time goes by. The more you do this exercise, the more pages you can
expect to read in a short amount of time. 
To achieve the second goal, you must try to limit your reading
to certain pages. For example, if you decide to read three pages, read these
three pages again and again for five minutes. This exercise will help train
your concentration and focus. As you read, try to concentrate as much as you
can. 
 
More exercises to help you master your skill
Even if you already know the techniques of speed reading, you
must consistently practice by doing exercises that can help you improve even
more. Arguably, the most important skills involved in speed reading are reducing
sub-vocalization and expanding your vision span. Here are several tips that can
help you.
 
Reducing sub-vocalization
Some say that it is impossible to eliminate subvocalization
completely. However, it is possible to reduce and minimize it until it is no
longer a cause of trouble. There are several things that can help you read
silently. Here are some techniques that you can use. 
Some say that using your hands to guide you as you read will
help you reduce subvocalization. Try to point at the words as you move forward
with the text. Aside from helping reduce vocalization, you will also avoid
another common problem, which is fixation. 
You can also try listening to music as you read. Choose sounds
that will help you concentrate. Instrumental music is known to increase mental
capacity, and they may prove to be your best option. Avoid anything that might
be too loud or too distracting. Do not opt for those, which remind you of other
things like love songs. 
 
Increase your vision span
Once you learn how to increase your vision span, you will automatically
decrease the number of stops you need to make in each line. In effect, you
become a faster and more efficient reader. Unfortunately, most of us are not
trained to see chunks of words as a time. This bad habit is also directly
related to subvocalization. Because we are often trained to pronounce words as
we read, most of us have a narrow eye span. 
You need to learn how to expand your field of vision if you want
to learn how to read faster and better. The only way you can really increase
your vision span is through exercise. Most of only pay attention to our eyes
when it feels strained. However, if you really want to increase your reading
speed, this is not the way to go. You must consistently exercise your eyes if
you want to maximize your reading ability.
You must improve both the strength and flexibility of your eyes
if you really want to improve. Strength is important because it will allow you
to read for a long time without straining your eyes. Flexibility is equally
important because it will allow you to read more words because you can stretch
your peripheral vision. 
 
The aggressive state of mind
You might find it surprising, but speed reading is actually more
of a state of mind than a skill. While you need to understand the techniques
and methods of speed reading, you also need to develop the confidence that you
can finish reading your material.  You need to have the confidence to turn off
the voices in your head... to expand your vision span... to move on with the words
without regressing. All these theories would be meaningless if you don't want
to try them out. 
When trying to learn a new skill like speed reading, it is
important to keep an aggressive frame of mind as you work. It will help you
think push yourself to read faster, push harder and stay motivated. 
 
Concentrate more
Do not underestimate the power of concentration. In essence,
speed reading is just heightened attention to how you see the words of your
text. The more focus and concentration you put in your work, the easier it
would be for you increase speed and comprehension of the material regardless of
the level of difficulty. 
Concentrating on the act of reading simply means eliminating all
possible distractions that can keep you from reaching your maximum potential.
It means creating the perfect environment to make reading more comfortable. At
the same time, concentrating also means being more conscious of the things you
do. It means exerting effort to make sure that you need more words at the same
time. It means trying your best to reduce subvocalization.
Now that you understand the various methods and techniques, the
only thing that can really help you improve is to concentrate on the
application of the new theories that you discovered. 














Strategies for Comprehension











Chapter 8: Skimming, Scanning and
Other Reading Techniques
There are other important techniques
that you can easily use if you really want to improve your speed reading.
You'll be surprised to know that skimming, scanning, and pre-reading are
methods that you can use too. Here are some tips.
As emphasized in the past chapters, there is no magic formula
for speed reading. There are various techniques that you can use and you can
just choose the most effective recipe for you. You don't need to follow
everything in this book. Mix and match the techniques so that you can come up
with something that is really effective for you. 
Skimming, scanning and pre-reading are several techniques that
you might find useful and effective. Skimming means going through the text in
order to understand general ideas. People usually skim when they have limited
time. Students who are cramming a few hours before a test usually just skim
their notes. This can be helpful when you want to get an overall idea but are
not interested in the particulars. 
Scanning, on the other hand, means allowing your eyes to go
through the text without exerting effort to make sense of the ideas. It's much
less complicated than skimming. Understandably, your comprehension rate drops
to almost nothing when you scan. You are not really making sense of the ideas
presented by the author. You are just going through words much like a zombie.
This is useful when you are looking for particular information or area of interest
that might interest you. 
Pre-reading is like getting a preview of the text. It means that
you are not trying to understand the details as you browse through the pages.
Getting a preview means trying to comprehend the text, including all the
graphs, pictures and design. Some would even say that reading a book summary is
included in the preview. Others would go as far as researching about the author
in order to put the book in proper context. Once you get the preview of a book,
you can determine if it has the contents you need. You can also tell if the
book is worth your time and effort. Pre-reading will allow you to filter
whatever books you encounter so that you will know which ones are really worth
your time and effort. 











Chapter 9: Cultivating an in-depth
understanding
 
It is important to speed
read in a proper way in order to retain what you read. When you do speed
reading in a proper way, comprehension should not be sacrificed. Here are ways
that could help you cultivate an in-depth understanding. 
Reading at your regular pace using subvocalization is not
entirely useless. You may want to appreciate the author's choice of words so
you can choose to take your time as you read. There are certain speed reading techniques
that may not be applicable when reading fiction. For example, it could be a bad
idea to get an overview of a mystery book because you probably wouldn't want to
know what is going to happen ahead of time, would you? There are indeed cases
when speed reading techniques are not applicable.
However, do not make the mistake of assuming that you need to
use subvocalization techniques if you want to cultivate an in-depth
understanding. It is possible to use speed reading techniques and still be able
to comprehend the material completely. 
Though you may use the techniques you learn any way you want,
speed reading techniques are best used for written material that require
understanding, comprehension, retention, recall and communication. Reading fast
is almost a requirement for studying in the fields of law and medicine. College
students who want to maximize their time may also use speed reading techniques
too. 
If you are a student who needs to study several thousand pages
in a limited amount of time, it is simply impractical to read the book from
cover to cover without any sort of strategy. Your textbook is not a work of
fiction, and you don't need to appreciate the author's creativity as you take
an in-depth look at the anatomy of the body. If you want to read material that
must stick to your memory, you must plan and prepare a strategy in order to
cover all the things that you need to study. 
 
No to start and slog
Perhaps if we are all given the luxury of time, it would be easy
to just read a book from page one up to the very last page. However, most of us
don't. We need to get things done as quickly and as efficiently as possible. If
you read a book from cover to cover, you might end up wasting time to read
material that is already familiar or you might end up spending too much time on
things that are irrelevant. 
If you are reading a difficult or a dull material, it might be
hard to keep yourself interested. Trying to read everything might make you
bored. In the end, you might have very poor reading efficiency because you are
trying to read and understand everything. 
In addition to this, reading every single page will also make it
difficult to get a big picture. In other words, readers don't get a full
perspective of a project until they finish the entire book. This can get
difficult because the readers don't get a complete picture of what they are
trying to read. In effect, the information that the readers get are usually
disorganized and incomplete. It becomes difficult for them to integrate new
information with their whole body of knowledge.
Without question, speed reading can help you understand the
things that you need to learn. It will help you understand the material in a
more complete manner. You also don't have to worry about losing your focus
because you need to concentrate on every single page so you really don't have
to worry about being bored as you read. 
In a sense, you should know your purpose when you read so that
you will be able to absorb the right information. Knowing your purpose will
give you a more strategic approach to a text. It is important to have a
holistic approach to study if you really want to maximize your learning
experience. 
Start and slog reading is much like going to the mall and
entering every single store without a clear idea of what you want to buy. On
the other hand, strategic reading means having a list and knowing where to go
in order to efficiently and effectively complete your shopping list at the
shortest amount of time possible. 
 
Reading more efficiently
When you are reading non-fiction material, always start by
asking your purpose. What do I want to learn by reading this material?
Answering this question will give you a more strategic approach to reading. It
will be easier for you to know which parts are important if you know what
exactly you are looking for. 
It helps to know your current level of knowledge in relation to
the material that you are trying to learn. This will make it easier for you to
know what to expect. If you already have a strong background on the subject
matter, it might be okay for you to skip a few parts to avoid redundancy.
However, if you are learning a completely new material, you might need to focus
and concentrate more in order to understand what you are trying to read. 
Before jumping straight into the material, you must first start
with trying to survey the book. Read the titles, the summary and the table of
contents. Also check the chapter summaries to know which parts you need to
focus on. Look at the visual elements of the book too. Browse any charts,
graphs or maps that could help you in understanding the book more completely. 
Flip through the pages of the book and pay special attention to
the parts that are eye-catching. Watch out for bold prints and italicized
sections. If there are chapter summaries, look at those too. Having a clear
idea of where the book is going will let you know if the book is useful or not.
It will also help you determine which parts you need to focus on in order to
have a more complete understanding of the subject. 
If the content of the book matches your learning objectives, you
are quite lucky, but this rarely happens. Most of the time, you need to revise
your purpose and objectives in order to have realistic expectations about what
you will get out of the material. In case the book is not sufficient, you might
want to do further research about your options in order to discover if there is
a book that will better match your needs.
When you are reading the book efficiently, you might see that
you need to vary the intensity and focus you give to each part depending on how
the author presents his or her ideas. You might have to vary your reading rate
and your reading technique if you truly want to be efficient. It is a bad sign
if you find yourself reading a material at a constant and consistent pace even
if you know that some parts need more attention than others do. 
Don't hesitate to skip material that you already know. There is
nothing wrong with omitting sections that are irrelevant or redundant. Learn to
know what you should reject and what you should maintain. Authors are not
perfect, and books are not the only source of authority. Rejecting certain
parts will not only make you read faster, it will also ensure that you get to
filter what you read.
Consistently go back to your purpose as you go through the text.
Keep track of important information like the WHO, WHERE, WHAT, WHY and HOW. If
you want to retain information, it is almost always to keep track of these
important facts. 
While there are those who can read on and on for hours, there
are others who need to take breaks in order to comprehend the information they
encounter. If you feel like you need consistent breaks in order to organize 
Keep your thoughts organized as you read. Always relate new
information to what you know. Always have a clear grasp of the most important
parts of each chapter. You can list down keywords in order to make you feel
that you really have a takeaway from what you are reading. 
Most of the time, impressing other people with your skills is
not the primary purpose of speed reading. Most people who speed read actually
do this for study or business. In other words, it is always important to have a
take away from whatever you are reading. After all, what is the use of speed if
you can't comprehend or remember anything that you come across. 











Chapter 10: Organizational Patterns
 
When you read, it is
important to relate various parts of your reading material in order to see the
complete picture. It is important to understand effective organizational
patterns in order to have a holistic approach to the reading material. 
Generally speaking, the kinds of available reading material you
will encounter may be divided into two kinds: fictional and informational. As
you already know, fictional materials are stories or novels that are primarily
written for entertainment.  On the other hand, Informational materials are
written to spread knowledge about a particular topic or subject. 
You can speed read any of the two but it is important to keep in
mind that you should have a different approach when dealing with these two.
When reading fiction, your approach should be from parts to whole. This is
because you won't really know what happens until the very end, do you? You need
to wait for the story to unfold part by part in order to truly understand and
appreciate the story. 
On the other hand, when reading informational material, your
approach to the content should be different. In a sense, it should be from
whole to parts. You should have a good structural understanding of the material
at first (usually, you will find this in the introduction). As you read
further, you will see details that will help you get a full understanding of
the educational material that you need to understand. 
When you use either of these two layouts of knowledge, you get
to have a clear understanding of what you are going to encounter. In addition
to this, these simple pre-reading strategies can help you be a more flexible
and successful reader. If you use these strategies, you can expect your
cognitive and comprehension skills to be much higher. Unfortunately, even good
readers don't preview their reading materials. They just plunge right into it
without giving much thought to the text that they are about to encounter. Let
me tell you that getting a preview of the things you will encounter will make
your life significantly easier and better. When you are going to take a test,
for example, browse through the questions first. It is important to have an
overview so that you know how to approach the entire reading material in a way
that will help you retain as much information as you can. 
Here is a quick summary of the strategies you should use in
order to help you read informational and fictional materials. 
 
Organizational layout for non-fiction
Start by conducting a quick survey of the material. Read the
introduction and the conclusion.Study the table of contents in order to set
your expectations properly. Compare the contents of the books with your own
prior knowledge. Prepare to structure the information that you will encounter.
Remember to stick to focus on information that will be relevant to your
purpose. 
Some effective preview techniques include skimming the first and
last pages, skim the entire work, or skim the start of each chapter. It all
really depends on your style, preferences and available time limit. 
Now that you have a complete sense of the material, you may
employ strategies for speed reading. Which parts need more attention? Which are
the parts that you can skip? More often than not, authors write in patterns. So
essentially, you will find it easier to read if you've figured out the pattern
that the author is using. Keep in mind that you should not regress when you are
reading. Just keep going forward and things will eventually make sense. Also,
don't underline and write keywords at your first reading. A simple dot could
help you mark important parts of the book at this first reading. 
Also, it is good to give yourself a personal deadline. How long
do you plan to read? Setting a goal will help motivate you to read faster.
Don't set the goal too high because you might just end up frustrated. Be
realistic but also be progressive.
When you've finished the entire work, it is time to get a post-view
of what you just read. Go back to the parts that you think needs more
attention. Go back to the parts that you've marked with dots. Skim the pages in
order to find answers to questions that may have risen after finishing the
entire material. Find answers, re-read material and locate the information you
need. Reinforce what you read. Organize the information you've read in order to
make it much easier for you to remember the information you just encountered.
As you re-read parts, don't lose grip of the whole or else, you
might get lost in the details once more. Scan the entire book and go back to
the parts that you marked during your first reading. You might need to pay more
attention in order to understand difficult parts. Scan the book to find the
answers to all your questions. 
You can do your post-view as many times as your schedule will
permit. It is ideal to do your post-view reading just before taking a test or
exam. 
 
Organizational
layout for fiction
In
essence, the steps for understanding works of fiction are the same as
understanding informational material. You should start with a preview and end
with a post-view. However, the approach to the problem should be different. 
While
you might survey the book and look at the pictures, you probably won't need to
remember the names, dates and sequence of events. Remember, when you read a
fictional work, part of the excitement is to let the story unfold in its
natural way. However, it is still useful to have an overview before plunging
straight into the story. Try to get an idea of the structure and also the point
of view of the author. However, this is not entirely necessary if you prefer
suspense as you read the fictional work. 
You
can then proceed to reading the book at a speed that you are comfortable with
You may opt to read slowly if you want to appreciate every single word. You may
even choose to use subvocalization techniques if you feel that you need to
appreciate every single word that the author chose. More often than not, those
who read leisurely don't have a deadline. Keep going forward at a comfortable
pace. Try to understand the important details of the story. Pay special
attention to characterization, plot, symbolisms and style. 
In
your post-view you should be able to understand all the parts of the story in
order to create one complete whole. Skim and scan the work to recognize
important story elements that you might have missed. At the end of the
post-view, the reader should be able to paint a complete picture of what
happened in the story. Some literary pieces are more difficult than others are.
It is up to the reader to create a more complete understanding of pieces like
this. If you need, it would probably be best to repeat your post-view again and
again until the story becomes more clear and comprehensible. 











Chapter 11: Noting keywords and developing memory
techniques
 
While some people can read
and remember without taking notes, others must note keywords in order to
remember the contents of the material. If you think that note taking is the
method for you, here are some tips that could make you more efficient.
In the past chapter, we discussed that it is best to leave dots
on important parts of a text that you are reading. If this strategy is not
effective for you, you might want to try using note taking techniques that can
help make it easier for you remember whatever you read. However, keep in mind
that taking notes is a skill that you have to develop too. You can't just note
down random words and expect the content to make sense. 
It is a special skill to know what is important and what is not.
A lot of people are dissatisfied with their note taking skills because there is
a tendency to write down everything. This is not very good practice because if
you have too many things to remember, it will be difficult for you to organize
and recall information as needed. 
Effective note taking is an important skill that can help you
retain information at a better rate. This chapter will help you improve our
skills in recognizing keywords. In effect, this will help you in comprehending
and remembering whatever material is presented to you. 
One of the most important brain skills that help adults to
process information is association. This means having the ability to create
connections among old and new information. Often, the human mind is not
behaving in a linear fashion. Rather it often works like a web and you just
connect one idea to another as you learn more. It is said that most intelligent
people are able to create more connections about the things that they remember.
You can learn how to make associations at a faster and more efficient way. Just
keep in mind that you need to practice, practice, and practice if you want this
skill to really develop and improve. 
Words that are helpful when creating connections are called
KEYWORDS. In a nutshell, they are word with very meaningful content. They are
very powerful because merely seeing or hearing them will trigger ideas and concepts,
which you might find useful and informative. They are easy to remember and they
generate very strong images. They contain the essence of the material. So when
you remember the keywords, it's as if you are unlocking other ideas that could
be helpful in your comprehension. Children first get their ideas across by
using keywords. For example, when a young boy wants cake, he would just shout "cake",
and his parents would understand what he is trying to say. The same goes for
remembering keywords.  If you train your mind to remember complete concepts
based on just keywords, you will find it easier to remember ideas simply by
just looking at words. 
 
Should I take down notes? 
If you think that reading is not enough for you, you should try
taking down notes in order to help you remember what you read. Taking down
notes is important because aside from helping you remember important
information, it also helps you organize the material one way or another. Note
taking allows you to give more attention to what is truly important as you jot
down associations, inferences and ideas. 
It is difficult to write down full sentences when you want to
take notes. When you merely write down sentences, you are only half-aware of
what you are doing. You don't really analyze the words in order to give meaning
to what you read. Most of the time, those who copy sentences are merely
half-conscious of what they are doing so comprehension and understanding is not
really maximized. 
If you want to maximize your reading, you should learn how to
use keywords to strengthen your understanding of your reading material. Allow
them to help you be more aware of the significance of ideas. Form images and
associations among them to ensure that comprehension and understanding are
strong and clear. When you use keywords, the mind is very much active in making
connections between meaning and ideas. Thus, it is easier to remember the
overall thought of the material. In addition to this, recall of the important
points is very easy. All you have to do is read the keywords again. 
Do you know the keywords for which you should watch out?  Here is
a quick guideline that can help you.
Nouns- They are the most basic part of speech, and they identify the
name of a person, place of thing. Nouns are very strong keywords because they
will basically remind you of the most basic information that you need to
remember. More often than not, the reader will find it easy to remember the
heart of the text simply by remembering nouns. 
Verbs- Verbs are action words and they are very important because they
will basically tell you what happened in a particular text.
Adjectives- Adjectives are the words that describe a noun. They are
important because they describe nouns. Adjectives can be very powerful when
describing people and events. As keywords, they will easily be able to help the
reader distinguish one noun from another. 
Adverbs-Adverbs are just like adjectives but instead of describing
nouns, they describe verbs. They are also powerful keywords because they can
help the readers paint a clearer picture of what happened in the text.











Bonus Chapter: Speed Reading Checklist
and Summary
It
is possible to learn how to speed read in one afternoon! Whether you are
practicing to speed read a complex philosophical material or a simple novel for
leisure reading, here are the tips that can help you understand and remember
the basics of speed reading. 
 
Choose
your reading environment
It
is essential to choose a comfortable reading environment with minimal
distractions in order to help you concentrate on the material that you are
trying to understand. Sit on a comfortable chair and avoid lying down. Make
sure that you can see the text clearly because poor vision could significantly
slow you down. 
Avoid
multi-tasking and stay away from distractions as much as you can. Do not even
try to read and watch television at the same time. A quiet room with a
comfortable chair and good lighting is ideal for this purpose. 
 
Keep
your focus
Reading
requires a hundred percent of your focus. Simply by concentrating on what you
are trying to read, you can increase your reading speed by as much as thirty to
forty percent. Much of the preparations required for speed reading is mental.
If you already have the correct mindset, you will find it easier to concentrate
on what you are trying to do.
 
Start
with a pre-reading
If
you are reading materials, which are full of information, you might want to
conduct a pre-reading in order to get the skeleton of the book. Get an overview
so that you know what to expect. Read the book jackets, and more importantly,
read the table of contents. Before you even get started, try to think of
previous knowledge, which might be useful for your comprehension. Don't be
scared to use other speed reading techniques like skimming and scanning too.
You will be surprised by how much faster you can get simply by trying out these
very simple steps. 
 
Stop
subvocalization
Many
experts say that this is the biggest problem of most slow readers. Do not make
reading an auditory process because it is not. Silent reading is the key to
reading faster. Be confident enough to continue reading without mouthing the
words. Subvocalization is something for schoolchildren. Now that you are an
adult, your reading skills must be like that of an adult's too. 
You
can use various techniques to stop vocalization. An effective way is to listen
to instrumental music as you read. Make sure to choose songs that are not too
distracting. 
 
Read
as fast as you can
Sometimes
you just have to challenge yourself and keep going forward even if you feel
that you do not understand the text. Be confident enough to avoid any kind of
regression. Ideally, the information you missed would be repeated later on. It
is also possible for you to figure out whatever you missed through context
clues. Just keep going forward. Concentrate and focus so that nothing important
will slip as you read. The faster you read, the more practice you will get. 
 
Watch
out for keywords
Keywords
are special words that can help you unlock ideas and other important thoughts
related to the subject matter of the text. They can help with your
comprehension significantly. When you read, make sure to watch out for keywords
so that you can get organize the thoughts and ideas conveyed by the author.











Bonus Chapter from the book "Think
Positively - Be a Winner. Proven Ways to Improve Positive Thinking with the
Best Motivational Quotes"
 
http://www.amazon.com/Think-Positively-Positive-Motivational-Negatively-ebook/dp/B00K2MDNR8
 
 
Never Be Afraid of Failure, Grab the Success"
 
 "The
world's greatest achievers are have been those who have always stayed focused
on their goals and have been consistent in their efforts" - Roopleen
Are
you afraid of failing? In that case, you are never going to take risks. Thus,
you will never find out that how talented you are! It is a loss of the nation
and its populace. Positive thinking can change you. It can turn you into a one
hundred percent absolutely proficient person. Come into contact with life, with
new experiences. The path is not relaxing and comfortable. However, never stop
trying.

 
Many
of the most accomplished people today failed many times in their lives.
However, they were not disappointed. You have heard the name of Benjamin
Franklin, have you not? He said, "By failing to prepare, you are preparing to
fail." Positive thinking will make you courageous and brave. 
Live
happily, do not tremble with fear before anything happens or even after that.
There is nothing to be so restless. You cannot ever create something new
without failure.  Many famous scientists made mistakes repeatedly. Then they
achieved something and were successful. They never expected their amount of
success or that their research would turn out so well. Positive thinking made
them do the same thing over and over again. Moreover, this "doing the same
thing" was trying. They were not afraid of failure. They stood in front of it,
faced it with courage, and then tackled it with proficiency. Failure can be
defined as learning. You will learn a lot after having failed                 
There
are thousands of examples of failure that turn out to be a miracle. Strength
comes out from failing continually and learning from those failures. You should
never stop. Keep continuing. Success is going to search for you. Do not admit
defeat so soon. In this manner, you will never find out what victory is.
Positive thinking will make you go a long way. If you failed, you failed. Do
not justify yourself or make an excuse. Let it go. Make life easier. Reduce it
to bare bones. 
The
more you fail, the more you learn about life. Making mistakes and standing in
front of failure is part of our lives. Do not make so much expectations and
requirements. Sometimes you need failure to gear up. Or else you are going to
be overconfident and egotistical. That is not good. Getting comfortable with
failure is such a huge advantage. Not everyone is capable of doing that. Fortune
cannot guarantee that you are going gain achievement constantly. Warranty of
victory is only made doable in a daydreamer's dictionary. Do everything in your
own way. Accept failure. Do not stop making efforts. Someday you will achieve
your goal and see for your own. Then you will think that it was worthy of
trying. 
Gates'
first company, Traf-O-Data, (a device which can read traffic tapes and then
further process the obtained data), failed terribly. After that when Gates
along with his partner, Paul Allen, attempted to sell the device in the market,
the product didn't even work. Gates and his partner didn't allow this failure
to stop them from retrying though. This is how Allen elucidated the way failure
helped them, "Even though Traf-O-Data wasn't a roaring success, it was
seminal in preparing us to make Microsoft's first product a couple of years
later." 
The
Microsoft that we see today came into reality because Bill Gates first
brainchild Traf-O-Data failed drastically, but in the end it gave birth to the
world's top class software company. Stephen King sold more than 350 million
novels and even some books by the world's top most authors do not sell like
this.When he wrote his first novel, all the publishing houses rejected it
outright, but he did not give up and eventually proved successful. 
So
think for yourself, if these people can undergo failures, who arewe not to
experience it! Actually failure comes when you stop trying because once you
stop you are left behind.Keep scheduling. Make timetables. Renew your standard
of living. Believe in yourself. Keep faith that you are capable of doing much
more for the welfare of the world. You can serve humanity. Who said that you
ought to be doctor to serve humanity? You can serve people by doing many other
tasks too. There is no doubt in that. Do not hate yourself. You are precious.
You are a human being. You have responsibilities and duties. Offer yourself to
help others. 
Think
about possibilities. Take on new challenges. Failure can be your support. Think
of it in a positive way. You can rebuild your career if you do so. You must
protect yourself from the negative thoughts that often haunt your mind.
Thinking negatively can only make things worse.Think about the future. What are
you going to do? What are your needs? What goals do you have? How many tasks do
you want to accomplish?
Fear
is a silent killer. Fear tears apart your confidence. Fear of failure can play
havoc with one's career and sometime once-in-a-life-time opportunities get lost
due to this fear of failure. When the state of being unsure hits you, you turn
fearful and this state of fear makes you fail. Remember once you were just
toddlers and were even not strong enough to stand up on your feet, but you
tried and started to walk, that happened because you did not fear, were not shy
of falling down. You fell repeatedly but this falling down did not dent your
will to walk, and you walked with success at last. Then how is that you should
allow a creepy feeling of being afraid come near you at this age. You grow only
to become stronger, physically and mentally, and not vice versa. 
For
this you do not need to reflect a lot or walk that proverbial tightrope, what
you should do is just to get rid of that mindset to reap the rewards of
success, just reinvent yourself, embrace failure to welcome success.But that
does not mean that you should enter the dragon's jaws, rather you should accept
risks keeping your eyes open and mind focused, what is called today 'calculated
risk'. Keep a positive attitude and keep faith, you will see that even failures
can lead you to success. Always remember that it is ok to fail but do not
accept failure as the final outcome.You are the master of your own fortune and
have the command to direct your thoughts and control your feelings thus
regulate your attitude. You and only you alone can decide and choose whether
your attitude will be negative or positive because your failure and your
success are dependent upon the attitude of your own mind.
Remember
that a mentally frightened person often overlooks those opportunities that are
right before his eyes. The person is unable to see the chances at hand, what he
sees is a daydream about future. He wants to go to the top without moving up
systematically and the result is failure. It is better that you pay attention
to the chances at hand and plan in terms of future.Do not just see with your
eyes but also see with your minds. Look around you, and watch those people who
turned successful in life after they learned from their failures. Remember not
just to see with your eyes, but also with your brains and then interpret it to
your work and life. It is important that you act on what you have learned
because in action lies success.
Remember
you are as good as the achievers, you have the wisdom of those principles,
which can help you achieve your goals, then think- do you use the principles
change your life. Remember the secret to success lies in the principle of 'let
it be done now'; when your mind says to do something, do it and believe me you
will be an achiever.To control your fear of failure, you have to change some of
your emotional mind-set. This calls for being more cultured, refined and
relaxed in times of fear. You can change your emotions from negative to
positive through reasoning. It is essential that you neutralize your
unwarranted fears because your fear turns your courage weak and a weak mind can
do more harm than good.
Remember
successful people loose no time, they are always doing something that is not
just good but also rewarding. Once you resolve something to do, do it without
fail. Always try to remain calm and composed, no more disturbing trifles and
take correct action when an occasion arises. Focus on one thing at a time,
leave others to be done at a later time, but schedule that time too.
Irrespective of failures or success, always try to bring smiles and enthusiasm
in whatever work you do, this will make your work fun and your job easy, these
will ultimately increase productivity and make you happy.Those who rarely fail
firmly believe that what the mind can think and what the heart believes, can be
achieved. All that is needed is motivation, because motivation is a force that
makes you surmount greatest of difficulties, it is a magic that can turn odds
in your favor.
You
as a human being just like the others who are more successful than you are. You
too can attract success, regardless of education or occupation. For this all
you have to do is to develop a mental attitude, which should be positive. Do
not think that a frantic dash to something will be most effective. Believe on
your ideas but make a calculated start and always record your ideas, set your
goals, give yourself a deadline, choose a direction and start moving towards
the goal.Remember no one ever knows the answers between the start of a journey
and its end. The most important thing is moving towards the goal set by you.
Your courage will keep you trying provided you have a positive mental attitude
only then the hidden talisman unto you can take effect in your favor.If you set
your goal then you can focus on things that can help you achieve it than if you
do not set a goal. Every goal setting process needs from you a constructive
thinking, learning and calculation of risks involved.
Start
right now. If you start from this moment, you will see the results as soon as
possible. It is essential to work hard. Be passionate about what you are doing.
Try to finish all the tasks once you start. Unfinished tasks do not enhance
your sharpness. It will kill your time. You do not want to waste too much time
just on one project. You have to bear in mind that our life is very short. 
Come up with new ideas and share them with the people in meetings. Do not be
ashamed of yourself. Lift yourself up. You can be a positive thinker if you wish
to be so. Get intouch with new practices and skills. They are really helpful. 
Remember
honesty in whatever you do has no alternative, honesty runs deeper and shows on
your face and in your body language, which even the most casual observer, can
easily read. A fellow who is dishonest announces his dishonesty though his
traits, voice and body language. Honesty pays, this is a rock solid truth.Have
you made a head start toward attaining your goals?  If not 'Do it now'!











Conclusion
 
Speed reading is not a special skill that is limited for people
with special abilities. You can easily learn it if you are dedicated and
committed. If you are willing to follow the pieces of advice shared in this
book, your improvement will even be much faster. You can expect to breeze
through thick books with little difficulty. All you have to do is practice. 
You must understand the concepts and theories discussed in this
book so that you may practice them effectively and efficiently. Be patient
enough to wait for progress. You don't have to worry because improvement will
inevitably come if you just PRACTICE. Learn the concepts and techniques with
your heart so that the learning process will be easier. 
Be confident enough that you have what it takes to be a speed
reader. If you are confident, you will be more willing to let go of old practices,
which could have been potentially damaging to the way you, read. Old school
beliefs could make you read slower. Be confident enough that the newer and more
modern methods taught in this book could help you become a better speed reader.

In this day and age, information can help you get ahead. One of
the ways you can understand information more easily is by learning how to speed
read. Learning this skill will bring you so many benefits. 
I hope that you will continue this quest to read faster, and I
hope that this book helped you in one way or another.











One Last Thing...
 
If you enjoyed
this book or found it useful I'd be very grateful if you'd post a short review
on Amazon. Your support really does make a difference and I read all the
reviews personally so I can get your feedback and make this book even better.
If you'd like to
leave a review then all you need to do is click the review link on this book's
page
 

















