




 
Speed Reading
33 Tips to Improve Your Reading Speed and Start Reading Efficiently












Table of Contents
 
Introduction
BONUS: Your FREE Gift
Chapter 1-In The Beginning...
Chapter 2-A New Dawn
Chapter 3-It's In the Wrist (Hand)
Chapter 4-Subvocalization Submariner and Other Reading Warships
Conclusion
FREE Bonus Reminder
BONUS #2: More Free Books












Copyright Notice
©Copyright 2015 by Lisa Clark - All rights reserved.
 
This document is geared towards providing exact and reliable information in regards to the topic and issue covered. The publication is sold with the idea that the publisher is not required to render accounting, officially permitted, or otherwise, qualified services. If advice is necessary, legal or professional, a practiced individual in the profession should be ordered. 
 
- From a Declaration of Principles which was accepted and approved equally by a Committee of the American Bar Association and a Committee of Publishers and Associations. 
 
In no way is it legal to reproduce, duplicate, or transmit any part of this document in either electronic means or in printed format. Recording of this publication is strictly prohibited and any storage of this document is not allowed unless with written permission from the publisher. All rights reserved. 
 
The information provided herein is stated to be truthful and consistent, in that any liability, in terms of inattention or otherwise, by any usage or abuse of any policies, processes, or directions contained within is the solitary and utter responsibility of the recipient reader. Under no circumstances will any legal responsibility or blame be held against the publisher for any reparation, damages, or monetary loss due to the information herein, either directly or indirectly. 












 
Respective authors own all copyrights not held by the publisher. 
 
The information herein is offered for informational purposes solely, and is universal as so. The presentation of the information is without contract or any type of guarantee assurance. 
 
The trademarks that are used are without any consent, and the publication of the trademark is without permission or backing by the trademark owner. All trademarks and brands within this book are for clarifying purposes only and are the owned by the owners themselves, not affiliated with this document. 
 













 
Disclaimer
 
While all attempts have been made to verify the information provided in this book, the author does not assume any responsibility for errors, omissions, or contrary interpretations of the subject matter contained within. The information provided in this book is for educational and entertainment purposes only. The reader is responsible for his or her own actions and the author does not accept any responsibilities for any liabilities or damages, real or perceived, resulting from the use of this information.











Introduction
 
There are countless late night television ads promoting"speed reading"classes, and they are usually right between the"indestructible"knives and the natural male enhancement commercials.  Typically, they are all just about as effective  as one another.  The reality is that there are no magic bullets to reading faster and more effectively.  This book, however, will give you 33 tips that will accomplish what others claim to accomplish.  By the time we're done, you'll read faster, you'll comprehend more and believe it or not, you'll actually enjoy reading more.
 
There are literally hundreds of"courses"available online and otherwise to give you the magic bullet, to wave a wand and amazingly, you can read two or three thousand words a minute.  What they don't tell you is that you may be able to reach mach speeds, but you'll comprehend less than  what a gnat remembers in  a nanosecond.  The goals must be more than just speed, more than just volume.  It has to include comprehension and efficiency.  
 
There are applications for the computer, the smart phone, and the tablets that are good tools to practice with and help develop the habits necessary to become an efficient and fast reader.  
 
Before we dive in head first, there are a few misnomers that need to be crushed immediately.  There are far too many myths out there, cruising around the Internet and in the dark recesses of our minds regarding speed reading and these myths cause more problems than they propose to solve.  They include:
a.  Reading is exclusively linear.  This is just not so and we will prove that with some visualization techniques - imagine the words on a page painting a picture for you.  That is what visualization does, it turns the words into pictures, paintings if you will.  Those paintings have nuance and bold statements alike.  Visualization will help you decide which is which.
 
b.   Reading means going word for word.  One of the methods discussed will teach you that not every word has the same amount of importance as others within a sentence or paragraph.  Some words can be skipped completely because they are simply modifiers, dependent upon the root word or phrase itself.
 
c.   Reading as labor-intensive.  False.  Reading used to be considered an entertaining event and it can be again.  Speed reading only increases the fun.  Of course, if you're a diesel mechanic, reading a book of legal cases from the 1900's may not be extremely entertaining, but it can still be fun by putting the emphasis on speed and efficacy.  The attitude that reading is"work"is a killer to any proposed improvement of reading abilities.  The attitude of negativity loses every time.
 
d.   All parts of a book are valuable.  There are sections of a book that can be completely ignored.  The primary information to be garnered from the literature is what you'll focus on, not needless hyperbole.
 
e.   Speed reading slows retention.  Think about it this way - how many slow readers do you know who quickly lose interest because they lag in reading speed?  Speed reading actually increases the desire to read and by default, improves comprehension and efficiency.
 
Now, with that behind us, let's get started...










BONUS: Your FREE Gift
  
Thank you for purchasing my book: " Speed Reading". I want to show you my appreciation by offering an exclusive eBook"10 Secrets That Will Help You Improve Your Photographic Memory"for FREE.
Simply Click the Button Below
  
OR Go to This Page
http://successmasterycamp.com/free/
 
 
 










Chapter 1-In The Beginning...
 
There's no doubt that we can all harken back to those days of yesteryear as we sat  in the elementary school classroom when the teacher would give the class a reading assignment, and let's face it - rarely was it a topic of interest.  
 
The teacher would stand in front of the class, selecting students at random to discuss the materials, or to actually read the book out loud.  For the average student, it was a frightening experience, for yet others, it was a terrifying and mind-numbing moment that would follow for the rest of that child's life.  You sat there looking down at your desk, perhaps at the materials rather than to meet the eye of the teacher because if you do, the teacher will focus in on you and make you read to the class next. 
 
The horror.
 
Some people are just not fond of reading and the reasons are as diverse as the people who maintain them.  Consistently, however, those who have the greatest aversion to reading are those who get bored or become frustrated with their slow reading speed.  It's more than just lacking the ability to read - though that is a legitimate complaint in many circumstances, however, that can and will be rectified through improved reading efficiency.
 
Today, young people and adults alike are addicted to the sound byte, commentary that cannot exceed 144 characters because otherwise in their collective minds, it's just a waste of typing energy to actually put together a full thought process and put an idea to paper. 
 
This trend, coupled with the News Feed lines on Facebook that are scrolling the mind of the participant aren't known to increase one's intelligence quotient.  They have spoiled us all, kept us from reading more literature and learning about the world around us.
 
While it may be true that there are horror stories about kids graduating high school with little or no ability to read, the vast majority of students can read well, but the problem is comprehension and reading to learn and enjoy learning rather than reading to pass a test.  Reading habits, for better or for worse, travel with us our whole lives; some habits good, some not so good.  The goal is to create and establish good reading habits, and that's where we will begin.












 
1.                  Environmental pollution. 
 
 As you embark upon this adventure of self-improvement, create an environment for yourself that is free of noise, clutter, distractions.  If the environment in which you work is clean and prepared, it will be symbolic of your mind.  
 
Don't allow your mind to be turned into the emotional equivalent of the Exxon Valdez, but rather turn off the phone, turn off the television, and in the early phases of your development, don't even listen to music - Mozart or otherwise.  They are distractions that will clutter your mind and as you progress, these elements will be added so as to help with moments when you're reading in less than ideal conditions.  Such as riding public transportation, at the doctor's office, and other locations where noise may be a problem.












 
2.                   Time limits. 
 
  The last thing you want to do to yourself is to burn out - so, pace yourself with time parameters.  Set limits for your reading so as to not get bored, antsy, and otherwise frustrated.  
 
For the beginner, the individual who does not read much at all, start with a simple goal - to read for 15 minutes a day, then increase the time in 15 minute increments until you've reached a full hour of reading.  
 
For the person who enjoys reading and wants to simply improve speed, begin with an hour, increasing time in 15 minute increments until you reach an hour of good quality reading.












 
3.                   Close your mouth, open your eyes.  
 
Some people have the habit of mouthing the words as they read and this will serve to just slow you down.  Your concentration is on the material you're taking in, not the phonetics of each word on the page.  
 
The mouth can speak between 150 to 200 words per minute, but the mind can comprehend words at the rate of about 800 words per minute.  You put yourself at a disadvantage when you mouth the words on the page, computer screen or parchment for that matter.  You want all of the cards stacked in your favor.












 
4.                   Begin with purpose. 
 
Don't just arbitrarily start reading material that is of no consequence to you when you dive into these methods.  Read something that you're passionate about, something that moves you or has a sense of urgency to be read.  
 
Whether you begin with non-fiction, fiction, or even a dictionary, make sure it has meaning and significance to you.  Where there is meaning and passion, there is an emotional investment.  That investment will be your time, your efforts, and of course, your improved reading abilities.












 
5.                   Ease up on the caffeine.  
 
Caffeine increases the heart rate, constricts blood vessels and just makes you jittery after a while.  The amount of caffeine intake is a direct reflection of the efficacy of your reading program.  
 
In other words, the more coffee, soda, energy drinks you consume the less likely it is you'll be able to truly focus on the material and work on techniques discussed here to increase speed and efficacy.  You're trying to concentrate - not be bouncing off the walls as a result of energy drink consumption.
 
Now that you know some of the things to do and what NOT to do when learning to increase reading speed, it's time we look at some highly effective tips to help you progress along the road efficaciously and quickly.  Some of these methods and tips will be self-explanatory, still others will be difficult to follow for the beginner, but all of them will be useful.










Chapter 2-A New Dawn
 
Throughout the history of the world, farmers rose early to get a jump on the day, to take advantage of the treasures the earth had to offer and to harvest so others may eat.  Not always an easy prospect, but rising early has inherent value and remember that the legend has it that once you do something for a two week period consistently, that behavior becomes a habit.  Take it from the farmers - an early start, a plan will help you reach your goals of reading more quickly and efficiently.
 
One very practical way to increase speed and actually save time is to not bother with unnecessary information.  Comics, advertisements, joke emails, and coupons are often more of a time-waster than they are useful. Sure, a little levity is fun and often needed, but remember the goal, keep your eyes focused on what you wish to accomplish.  Eliminate these distractions from the horizon and pave the way for faster reading and higher comprehension.












 
1.             With the roosters.  
 
Like the farmers throughout history, you need to rise early and consistently.  In the morning, your mind is more clear and you have a unique moment to prioritize your reading goals and focus on reading and nothing but reading.  
 
Early mornings are typically the quietest as well - less traffic, no noisy neighbors with their stereos so loud, the Mars Rover can pick up the vibrations.  












 
1.   No highlights.  
 
Growing up, it was a common practice to grab a highlighter and underscore, highlight, and draw as much attention to the parts of the material we were consuming that we believed to have the most relevance.  Particularly if it was included in a test down the line.  Resist the urge to mark that book up.
 
Your focus needs to be on all of the material, not just presupposed sections of usefulness.  Besides, the bright colors are just distracting anyway.  












 
2.   Flexible gears. 
 
Different materials require different speeds in order to comprehend fully what is contained.  
 
For example, long narratives like stories, fiction and non-fiction books alike can be consumed at a faster pace.  Things like contracts, documents including spreadsheets and complex equations must be read at a slower pace. 
 
So, be flexible depending upon the type of material you're reading and the methods will be much smoother.












 
3.   Practice, practice, practice.  
 
The more you do something, the easier it becomes, and the better you get at it.  Professional archers throw hundreds of arrows down range every week to practice, to hone their skills. The end result is more bullseyes than their competitors. 
 
Reading efficiently is exactly the same - take the time to practice.  If you're committed to setting time aside every day (see above), and you use that time effectively, you'll increase your speed and your comprehension.  












 
4.   Take the test.  Before you get started on this adventure to reading bliss, take this short test and use it as a baseline for you to start with:
a.  Set a timer for 1 minute.
 
b.   Mark the page where you're starting, preferably at the beginning of a line.
 
c.   Read until the minute has expired.
 
d.   Mark the line where you finished.
 
e.   Count the number of lines you have read.
 
f.     Count the number of words you've read - every word.
 
g.   Take the number of lines, multiply by the number of words, and you come to a close estimate as to how many words per minute you're reading.  This is your benchmark.












 
1.             Be visible. 
 
Keep your benchmark and your progress reports close by you and easily accessible so as to remind yourself how you're improving, growing and speeding up your reading efficiency. Positive reinforcement, positive encouragement and a tangible way to chart your progress is important to your continued success.
 
Now that we've established many of the basics, the fundamentals to creating and developing an environment that is productive, you've established your baseline, you've set aside time every day to practice, slowed down on the caffeine, it's time to consider some specific techniques to help your speed.










Chapter 3-It's In the Wrist (Hand)
 
Forget what you've seen on television where the gentleman pitching his course to you and runs his hand across a page or two in the time it takes for you to say your name.  In rare instances, those shows are legitimate, but generally, they are just used for showmanship rather than real technical assistance in improving reading speed and efficiency.
 
Here are a few techniques, some tactics that will actually accomplish something when coupled with the processes learned in the previous chapter.  Some of these, when done in public, will make you look rather silly at first, so it's important that you do them in the privacy of your own home.  There will come a time when you're comfortable with these methods and you'll be confident to use these methods everywhere.  












 
2.            The Slide.  
 
Place your right hand on the page and slowly slide it down the page.  Make sure it's a slow, methodical movement, and follow along with your eyes.  Start down the center of the page, stop, then move a little further. 
 
Keep the movement slow, consistent and steady, mindful that this should be used only once per page.  Don't give in to the temptation to go back again and try it anew on each page repeatedly.












 
3.            Houdini Hand.  
 
Use a post card, a piece of paper or anything that is flexible and can cover the page easily.  Place the card, paper, etc., above the first line and slowly move it downward, forcing speed on your eyes. 
 
Try to make your hand seem like it's self-aware, that it has a mind of its own and moves at its own pace.  You will be covering the words you've already read, which will prevent you from reviewing the same material more than once.












 
4.              Brush Off.  
 
This method might be the easiest of the methods thus far.  You'll use your hand to help draw your eyes across the page.  Place your hand on the page you're reading, fingers just under the line you're starting from.  Move your hand from left to right as though you're brushing dust off of your literature.  Make your eyes follow the sentences across the page, letting your hand/fingers set the pace and speed.  
 
This is a good method to use in public, when you're in an environment that is less than conducive to intense concentration - it looks almost natural and will call little or no attention to yourself.












 
5.              Bounce.  
 
This method is similar to the Brush Off, except that the hand/fingers bounce onto the page, moving down the page.  Imagine all of your fingers being attached in the shape of the letter c - that is how your hand should look as you practice this exercise.  
 
The eyes will focus on three or four words in each sentence, each location where the hand places itself.  Make sure the pace is steady, consistent and in a downward motion, traveling down the page.  The same rule applies here regarding repeated reading - just say no.  












 
6.              Zip.  
 
In this method, you take your hand, cut across the text diagonally, then back in the form of the letter"z." This method allows you to scan the entire section, rather than each individual word.  Your mind will select key phrases, elements that it deems important.  
 
This method is good for a broad spectrum overview of the material.  A good way to gauge your success is to scan through using the Zip for one minute.  Stop, then write down what you recall.  Go back and re-read the material more deliberately and check your notes.  Are they an accurate depiction of what the material is communicating?  If not, keep at it more and more and with increased deliberation.  
 
These are simple techniques (methods), requiring practice and consistency in order to be effective.  As with any project of self-improvement, it requires a commitment and dedication to excellence.  Since you're reading this book and have gotten this far, it's safe to say that you possess just that.  Take your baseline, set a realistic goal and other benchmarks over time using each of these different methods and techniques.  Charting and celebrating your success is an important key to success in any endeavor.  Now, let's dig a little deeper, shall we?









Chapter 4-Subvocalization Submariner and Other Reading Warships
 
There are some habits that are virtually impossible to break.  Not including habits that are chemically stimulated and motivated, habits can range from popping knuckles, to chewing fingernails, to overcooking pasta.  Another habit that often stems from childhood, the need for reassurance is that of subvocalization.
 
Subvocalization is typically used to refer to some kind of auditory reassurance.  This stems from youth, when we were taught to read aloud as a reinforcing characterization to ease the subconscious mind into a more relaxed state.  Unfortunately, for this skill set, it's counter productive.  We mentioned it briefly in the previous chapter, but it warrants its own discourse.
 
There are a few tips to decrease the harm subvocalization can cause, but keep in mind, if it's not completely overcome, that's okay.  It's a process, a sprint - not a marathon.
7.            Distraction From the Sub.  Previously we told you that you want to create a peaceful environment in which to hone your skills as a speed reader, but some types of distractions are good - particularly when there is subvocalization concerned.  Chew a piece of gum, for example.  It doesn't distract the mind from focusing on the literature, but it keeps the mouth busy, decreasing the desire and ability to subvocalize.
 
8.            Force It.  Push yourself to read fast - faster than you normally would.  If you read 200 WPM, push yourself to 250.  The faster and harder you push, the more difficult it becomes for your mouth to keep up with your eyes.  In order for muscle mass to be increased, it must be pushed, challenged and in the process of repair is where the growth takes place.  The same applies here - push yourself to increase more and more speed with each session.
 
Earlier, we wrote a tip regarding the issue of subvocalization.  It's important to remember that you need not completely eliminate subvocalization, but those tips were designed to help you bring it under control at the very least.
 
Here are a few more tips and trick to add to your arsenal.
9.            Don't Look Back.  Not just a popular song by the band, Boston, in the 1970's, but an excellent rule of thumb when speed reading.  The habit is to go back, reread the material you've already covered, and that is an enormous waste of time and your mind's resources.  Repetition may help in most exercises, but the objective here is speed and efficiency - reading material you've already covered is counter productive.  
 
10.       Web Apps Abound.  The speed reading learning curve is ongoing and practice is important even after you've reached your WPM goal.  There are applications on the Web for your computer as well as your smart phones and tablets.  These apps are designed to go at your pace, pick up where you last left off and keep you moving forward.  In addition, some are actually fun to use.  There is a list of a few of them available online at the end of this book, contained in the Conclusion.
 
11.       Visualization.  Visualize the information you're reading.  This may seem slow at first, but will increase speed over a short period of time as you get used to it.  Imagine that what you just read was turned into a painting - what does that painting look like?  What are the subtle color variations and what are the bold statements being made by the painting?  Allow your mind to do this while you're reading and it is a sure-fire way to improve comprehension and efficiency.
 
12.       Read In Volume.  Rather than reading one or two words at a time, concentrate on reading three and four word phrases or groupings.  Increase the numbers up until you reach five words at a stop.  Practice this technique daily to get the hang of it and increase your comfort level.  It won't come easy in the beginning, but you'll settle into a groove before too long.
 
13.       Vocabulary.  Improve your vocabulary by reading a few words a day from the dictionary.  Another way to approach it is to make a note on the words you see during the day that perhaps you're not familiar with.  When time avails itself, study that word, learn the meaning and context of the word.  The purpose for this is to increase speed by overcoming the speed bumps in your reading that includes words of which you do not recognize.
 
14.       Frequency.  Read as much of everything you can get your hands on.  If you're at the doctor's office, read the magazines.  If you're at the grocery store, read the labels on the food (might be helpful as well as frightening).  If you're riding in the car, read the billboards and do so quickly as you can - most billboards are grouped together with more than one or two in a cluster.  Read them all, read them fast.
 
15.       Optimal State/Consciousness.  Before you begin the trek for that day, take your time to meditate, to get your mind into a place of peace.  When you do this, you'll have a much more open mind and it will in turn, increase your cognitive abilities.  Meditation has been known to not only assist in the process of learning new skills and abilities, but it is also just plain good for the body.  Speed and efficiency - that's the name of the game.
 
16.       Be An Acrobat.  Everyone who is even remotely savvy with computers, knows that Adobe has a formatted document called a PDF.  Adobe has a proprietary piece of software required to read those documents - don't worry, it's standard fare for most personal computers.  Open the document and hit Control, Shift and the letter"H".  This will begin the document scroll and you can control the speed by using the numbers 0-9, 9 being the fastest, 0 the slowest.
 
17.       Peripheral Vision.  Most people read in a very systematic way - from left to right, beginning with the first word in the line, to the last word of every line.  Train your eyes to focus on the middle of a line and let your peripheral vision manage the rest of the material.  This method/tip will probably be one of the more difficult to follow because you're not only training your eyes, but your mind to open and take in information beyond what is right in front of them.
 
18.       Review First.  Most books and periodicals have introductions, prefaces and tables of content.  Scan the tables of content with the chapters and titles and it will give you a good indication as the overall mood, flow of the book and it will make your mind more open as you read.  As you read, your mind will go back to the information gathered during the scan and make the connection.  These connections will increase your comprehension and ability to retain the material in the long term.
 
19.       Make It Concrete.  There's more to reading than just speed - there has to be comprehension to go along with it.  Speak out loud about the information that you just read as though you are teaching yourself the materials.  It will help to synthesize the information and engrain it into your short and long term memory.
 
20.       Headings Are Questions?  Make a game out of it.  Take each of the chapter titles and the subheadings and turn them into questions - a mini test, if you will.  Read each section with the intent to answer those questions posed at the beginning.  Commit to writing your answers and you'll learn more about the material you've covered.  You will have used more than one of your senses in the process and when more than one of the physical senses are used, the higher the probability of retention.
 
21.       Avoid the But.  Words like and, a, the, but, if are words that can get in the way.  Focus on the meat of the paragraph, of the sentence you're reading and concentrate on the key words within each phrase.
 
22.       Approach With Care.  It matters not what topic you're reading if your mind believes that everything you're reading is of vital importance, something that you greatly enjoy.  It makes it easier, less challenging to read.  More like a vacation than a troublesome task.  If that's still too big of a pill to swallow, try this - for every hour you read of good, favorable material, take 15 minutes to read the less entertaining literature.  Before you know it, reading as a whole will be entertaining, enjoyable.  
 
23.       Positive Attitude.  Whether you're lifting weights, running, cutting out carbohydrates, or even eliminating alcohol from your life, the first place to begin is in your mind.  A positive attitude, a cheery outlook and expectations that are realistic and attainable, will all help you increase your reading speed and improve the efficiency of your comprehension.
 
That was a lot of information to digest, but once you've mastered these methods and techniques, you'll look back with fondness the day you began this journey to improve your reading efficiency.  Practice, dedication, time, attitude and environment are the intangibles that produce tangible results.  










 
Conclusion
 
Speed reading isn't for everyone, but it can be useful to everyone.  Like any other skill or talent, it takes weeks, and maybe even months to fine tune, to bring to fruition.  Increasing reading speeds and the efficiency of which you retain information is the goal and it should be expected that there will be time involved in bringing your abilities to an optimal level.
 
There are many resources available to continue the educational process, to use technology to increase speed and many software applications apply the methods discussed here in this book.  Such as:
Spreeder - A free, online speed reading software designed to increase reading speed and bring subvocalization to a minimum.
 
ZapReader - A web-based speed reading software that improves the speed and efficacy of reading web pages.  It's free, and works with most browsers.
 
Hopify - Another web-based practice program where text is cut and pasted into their interface and follow the instructions at that point.
 
QuickReader - Downloadable program wherein the"lite"version is free, but the expanded versions require purchase.  One advantage is that it is not web-based inasmuch as the application can be placed on your desktop and practised with or without Internet connection.
 
One other aspect of learning any new skill or honing abilities that is largely overlooked is that of rest.  Most people do not sleep the eight hours a night that is typically required to be fully rested, and what sleep that is actually enjoyed is often fitful and not complete, wholesome sleep.  Get your sleep - your body and your mind will appreciate it.
 
Increasing reading speed can be more than utilitarian, it can be fun and challenging.  And yes, it can also be useful for children.  If you're creative enough, you can make each of the methods, the processes seem like a game and they will not get bored.  For kids, it can be a very useful tool to keep them one step ahead, improve their grades, and make doing homework in a timely manner easier.  
 
Ultimately, the goal is to make your life easier by dramatically improving your reading skills and your ability to retain information.  When you see the success you deserve, you'll pass it along to friends and family and maybe, just maybe, we'll see a tidal wave of reading sweep the land, rather than an amalgamation of Tweets and texts.  
 
Good luck and good reading!










FREE Bonus Reminder
  
If you have not grabbed it yet, please go ahead and download your special bonus report"10 Secrets That Will Help You Improve Your Photographic Memory".
Simply Click the Button Below
  
OR Go to This Page
http://successmasterycamp.com/free/










BONUS #2: More Free Books
 
Do you want to receive more Free Books?
We have a mailing list where we send out our new Books when they go free on Kindle. Click on the link below to sign up for Free Book Promotions.
=> Sign Up for Free Book Promotions <=
OR
Go to this URL http://bit.ly/1COlFPe
















