




Success is NOT an 
Accident!
 
By Paul Evans











Copyright © 2016 PBE
All rights reserved.
ISBN -10: 1523220732
ISBN-13: 978-1523220731











DEDICATION
 
 
To Those Who Refuse to Quit.
 
paulbevans.com









 

 
Success is NOT an Accident!
 
 
 
This is not a how-to book as much as a want-to book. You already know how to do so much; you just don't always want to do it. You need a little kick, a little boost, a little punch. I'm thrilled to provide. 
 
You see, this is a book of conversations. Talks I've had with myself to get me moving or focused or disciplined. Some are fun, others challenging. All are designed to help us take responsibility for the results we want.
 
Success is NOT an Accident! is a mantra, a battle cry. It openly declares war on the expectation of something "just happening."
 
Deep down you know there's no goose that lays golden eggs, magic beans that grow into a giant stalk, or spinning wheel that turns straw into gold.
 
Deep down you also wish for such a thing.
 
Stop that.
 
Motivational types like to say things like, "If it's going to be, it's up to me." The rhyme makes it sound so sweet, so doable. But the truth is in there. If your goal, wish, want, or dream is going to happen, then it is up to you. Decide, determine and deploy. Don't hold back and don't expect smooth roads.
 
You will want to give up, quit and start over. You will want to blame someone else, or get jealous of those who seem to have advantages that you don't. Don't. The world is not conspiring against you. It's not harder for you than everyone else. We all face the same insecurities, pressures, barriers, haters and unexpected roadblocks.
 
We all receive the same encouragement, shortcuts, opportunities, unexpected gifts and supporters.
 
The road to your success will be winding and smooth. Uphill and down. Beautiful and boring. This little book will help you make the trip more interesting. 
 
Success is NOT an accident!
Paul












 
 
 
 
Success is NOT an 
Accident!
 
By Paul Evans
 
 
 











Define Success
 
 
 
"Success is the progressive realization of a worthy ideal." —Earl Nightingale.
 
Success doesn't define you; you define it.
 
You decide. You choose. You select. 
 
You deem the worth.
 
Resist the urge to look around and quantify the success of others. Fight the attraction to their success. Banish those feelings that cause you to covet.
 
Blank sheet. Clean slate.
 
Define your success. Designate your worthy ideal.
 
Do you want to. . . .
 
Become a better mom or dad by being more available and present for your children?
 
Become a better employer by providing bonuses or surprises to your employees?
 
Lose that last 10 pounds?
 
Downsize your cost of living and move toward the minimal?
 
Write three thank-you notes a day?
 
Love in spite of the risk?
 
It needs only be worthy. It needs only be yours.
 
Then progress.
Step.
Move.
 
Great strides aren't always required.
 
Progressive. Steady. Dependable.
 
A worthy ideal.
 
 
 
 











The Formula
 
 
 
 
"Can you give me a formula for success?"
 
Yes.
 
(Information + Installation) x Implementation = Transformation
 
Information. What is it you need to learn to reach your goal or take the next step? Read, study, watch, learn. 
 
Installation. Take what you learned and apply it to you. Your wiring. Your style. Not everything you discover will apply to you or can be done by you. 
 
Believe it or not, I have a poultry allergy. I could literally die from eating the yard bird. So if I want to lose weight and part of the diet focuses on chicken, guess what? I don't install that part. I know that seems like common sense, but people constantly attempt to follow programs as-is, without adjusting for their own personal makeup.
 
Implementation. You can study and plan for ages, but nothing changes without action. It's been said, "A goal without a plan is just a wish." 
Granted. But a plan without action is silly. A plan will deceive you into believing your good intentions matter. They don't. 
 
Go show your scale your weight-loss plan; it won't shudder or shake. It doesn't care. It's only affected by the miles ran and the diet obeyed.
 
Day in and day out. Rain or shine. Happy or sad. Inspired or depressed. Confident or insecure. You must relentlessly implement.
 
Transformation. After consistent implementation, things change . . . forever. 
 
Consistently make the sales calls and your wallet will transform—and so will your life. Consistently pay toward debt and your darkness will transform into happiness. Consistently encourage your child, and your relationship will shift from closed to open.
 
Transformation results after the study, after the plans, after the action.
 
That's the simple formula for success.
 
 
 
 
 











Before Photo
 
 
 
 
Take your "before photo" right now.
 
No judgment. No bad feelings. No mental beat-ups.
 
It begins by determining what you want to change and by how much.
 
If you want to get debt free, but you owe $62,000, then that's your before photo.
 
If you want to lose twenty-five pounds and you weigh 214.2, then that's your before photo.
 
Take the snapshot. Face the reality. 
 
Now change the behavior. 
 
What created the $62,000 in debt? How did you get to 214.2? Stop doing those things and start saying, "That was before."
 
A friend points out a great deal on a new gadget. You shiver. The impulse rises. Your voice quakes, but you get it out: "That was before."
 
You pass your favorite calorie splurge. Your mouth waters. Your hands begin to spin the steering wheel around in shock. You swallow and force out, "That was before."
 
Finally, replace bad with good.
 
Every time you want to impulse-spend, say, "This is now," and take the amount of that purchase and put it toward your debt.
 
Every time you want Combo 3, extra large, say, "This is now," and run or walk a mile instead.
 
Take the before photo. Change the behavior. Replace bad with good.
 
"That was before. This is now."
 
 
 
 











Discipline
 
 
 
"Self-discipline is the ability to make yourself do, what you should do, when you should do it, whether you feel like it or not." —Kop Kopmeyer
 
The number one reason we procrastinate, or put things off, or skip them altogether. . . 
 
"I don't feel like it."
 
Guess what?
 
I don't either.
 
Didn't feel like getting up when I woke at 3:53 a.m.
 
Didn't feel like doing some client work I'd put off from last night.
 
Didn't feel like figuring out a way around a design issue.
 
Didn't feel like getting dressed for the cold and heading to the gym for a workout.
 
But I did all those things. Not because I wanted to. Not because they "had" to get done. Not because I would disappoint someone. Nope. I did those things because I promised myself last night before falling asleep that I would do those things. Then I woke. Wrestled. Made myself do them.
 
If waiting until we "feel like it" becomes the prerequisite to action, we're doomed. 
 
Here's Kopmeyer's statement in a formula. . . 
 
1. Write down what you should be doing or what you are going to do.
2. Write down when you are going to do it.
3. Keep your word.
 
That last one is the most important. Almost nothing hurts us more than being lied to. We desire, even demand, honesty, so begin with you. 
 
Stop lying to yourself by saying you will do it later.
 
Stop lying to yourself by believing that at some point you will feel like it.
 
Stop lying to yourself by thinking that delay won't make a difference.
 
Stop lying to yourself by giving yourself an excuse to wait.
 
You become disciplined by keeping your word. 











The Mind Lies. 
 
 
 
It reconstructs. Reframes. Replays.
 
It doesn't mean to be deceptive; it just wants to create a nice and neat package. It wants to produce memories that are better than the event. (Or worse than the event if the goal is anger and resentment.)
 
Write everything down so you can know the truth.
 
Document.
 
What you THINK is an assumption.
 
You can't KNOW until you write down every element. Until you record the truth. Then there's evidence. Then you can point to the action and result and know.
 
Stop guessing about your hustle. Provide the hardcore facts. 
 
The truth.
 
 











Killing Myself!
 
 
 
"I'm doing EVERYTHING I can do! I am KILLING myself."
 
I doubt it.
 











If only. . . 
 
Never enters the arena.
Never pursues the dream.
Never studies the course.
Never pours with sweat.
Never stretches the comfort zone.
Never pushes the limits.
Never attacks the list.
Never announces the finish.
Never groans with pain.
Never jumps the canyon.
Never presses the edge.
Never punches the doubt.
Never strong-arms the day.
Never runs with speed.
 
If only waits for the right time. The right moment. The right alignment.
 
If only accepts the excuse. The defense. The disguise.
 
If only blames the world. The crowd. The network.
 
If only _________ would _______, then I could _________.
 
Meanwhile, across the way, what if is at work.
 
 
What if I _______, then I'll ________________.
 
If only fails.
 
What if succeeds.
 
 
 











Perseverance
 
"It's not that I'm so smart, it's just that I stay with problems longer." —Albert Einstein
 
It's not the guy with the most potential that wins. 
 
It's not the one with the greatest intellect. 
 
It's not the one with the strongest genetics. 
 
It's not the one with the perfect heritage or background. 
 
It's not the one with the ideal connections and network. 
 
It's the person with the most perseverance. The one who keeps going after it. The one who doesn't lay down without getting back up. The one who pulls himself to his knees, though beaten and battered. The one who staggers to stand, though weak and worn. The one who takes the next step, though shaky and unsteady.
 
See the destination.
Point yourself in the direction.
Step.
Close your eyes if you have to.
Use crutches if needed.
Let a friend hold you up.
But move.
 
Everything can't be a skip and a jump.
 
Everything can't be a smooth stride.
 
Everything can't be within your grasp immediately.
 
Some of the goals you crave will require you to move forward while trembling.
 
Some of the results you desire will force you to navigate the storms of pain and disappointment.
 
Some of the dreams you envision will lead you through a forest of despair and a valley of darkness.
 
Some of the hopes you long for will be challenged against the rocks of doubt and insecurity.
 
Some of the aspirations you reach for will wage a war on your identity and self-worth.
 
Persevere.
 
 
 











Right Now
 
 
 
"I am the greatest me that's ever been." —Derek Franklin
 
Is Derek's statement true for you?
 
If not, what are you going to do about it?
 
 
 
 











Giving It My All
 
 
 
What does that even mean?
 
"I gave it my all."
 
Really?
 
No regrets?
 
No looking back and wondering, "What if?"
 
Forget the Legacy. Live Your Legend.
 
"If you love life, don't waste time, for time is what life is made up of." —Bruce Lee
 
It's easy to get overly concerned with what you are going to leave behind after you're gone. What do you want your legacy to be?
 
Honestly. . . .
 
I won't care. I won't be here. It won't be on my mind.
 
But I am here now. You are, too. So let's do something with now. 
 
Forget being remembered. Be memorable. Then you'll be remembered.
 
It's not about the parent a child remembers, but what it took to be remembered.
 
It's not about how much money a business made, but what it took to make that money.
 
It's not about the goal reached, but what it took to reach the goal.
 
It's not about the standing ovation, but what it took to move the crowd to their feet.
 
It's not about the length of the marriage, but what it took to fill the years with joy.
 
It's not about the laughter, but what it took to create the smile.
 
It's not about the best friend, but what it took to forge the bond.
 
It's not about "I have a dream," or "We have nothing to fear but fear itself," or "Give me liberty or give me death," but the lives lived to make those immortal words immortal.
 
Live the legend and you'll leave a legacy.
 











How Many?
 
 
 
"How many do I have to do? Why would you ask such a stupid question? As much as it takes to transform your crap life from where it is to where you want it to be." —John Reed, personal trainer.
 
Never concentrate on minimums when it comes to effort and excellence.
 
Do what it takes.
 
As much as it takes.
 
As long as it takes.
 











Goal Getting
 
 
 
Got your plans? Got your planner? Got your goals set?
 
Given yourself the "this time is going to be different" pep talk?
 
Perhaps you took a personal retreat. You rented a cabin. Took your notebooks. Took the goal-setting course you purchased. Took your French press so you could experience coffee as close to perfect as possible as it energized you for the hard work of setting and crafting your goals.
 
Because this time is going to be different.
 
Worksheets litter the table. The creatives have their colored pencils in full array. The plans look more like blueprints. There's hope. The heart begins to lift with confidence. 
 
Because this time is going to be different.
 
Light from the fireplace casts a glow upon the room. Your eyes gleam with the future. You feel lighter from the weight you will lose. You feel pride for the book you will write. You feel happy for the money you will make. You feel thrilled for the finish line you will cross. You scribble notes in the planner specifically selected for this very purpose.
 
Because this time is going to be different.
 
Carefully you scan your plans. You check the dates. You measure your milestones. You map out what you should attain by which point of the year. You exhale and smile.
 
Because this time is going to be different.
 
After all the studying and planning and massaging, you make your next decisions carefully. You need the right equipment for the stage. 
 
New shoes and clothes for running. A new laptop for writing. New software for money-making. You compare and weigh the options. You ask friends. You talk to the experts. You cannot afford to make a less-than-perfect choice.
 
Because this time is going to be different.
 
Finally you are ready. You have your ideal plan. You have your planner to track every improvement. You have your tools to make every step possible and every dream come true.
 
Because this time is going to be different.
 
You feel great. You're proud of all your work. Proud of what you've put together. Proud of your clarity. Proud of the assurance that surges through your spirit. Proud that this time is going to be different.
 
And yet, you've done nothing yet that you haven't done before. You planned before. Swelled with pride before. Announced your goals publicly before. Bought the gear before. Believed there would be no stopping you before.
 
And yet, you were stopped. 
 
The shoes didn't guarantee the run. The laptop didn't guarantee the words. The software didn't guarantee the money. The plans didn't guarantee the action.
 
All the plans in the world are worthless without execution. Without action. Until then, we are just trying to make ourselves feel good. Trying to prove we have what it takes by spending time with a pen and a notebook as we architect the steps.
 
Don't hide behind the comfortable dream of a plan. 
 
Don't let the euphoria of "resolutions" trick you into believing you've actually accomplished something. 
 
Don't allow the slick worksheets, produced videos or streamlined planners convince you that you are actually closer to the result you desire.  The next morning, you have to wake and actually do all the work you talked about.
 
Stop goal setting. Go goal getting.
 
Because this time is going to be different.












6 Figures for Orphans
 
 
 
In 2008 I met the Texas Tornado, aka Carrie Wilkerson, aka The Barefoot Executive.
 
We met in a mastermind group of internet marketers.
 
At the very first meeting and on the very first break I ran to the elevator. I had never met people at a conference and I was not about to ruin my streak. (Or so I thought.)
 
As I reached up to press the elevator button I heard the Tornado, "Hold on there preacher boy. We've got some things to discuss."
 
Little did I know I had just met my best friend.
 
Carrie loved the Lord and orphan work and business, and she could tell from my presentation that I did too.
 
Instant connection.
 
The leader of the mastermind holds a large event each year with several thousand people. The winner of "marketer of the year" received a $10,000 check.
 
"I'm gonna get on that stage and win. And I'm going to hand you the $10,000 check to go to your mission work in Africa."
 
There was something in her voice. Something that most of us lack...
 
Certainty.
 
I barely knew her, but I believed.
 
Fast-forward 10 months. Our mastermind is at the conference. Sure enough Carrie is speaking. Sure enough she won. Sure enough I was called to the stage and she handed me the check.
 
Certainty. Sure enough.
 
How certain are you, or are you still wishing? How sure are you, or are you still dreaming?
 
The stage and the check didn't just happen. They were the result of work and performance and perseverance. 
 
It happened because Carrie set a goal and then pursued it. She made a plan for the year and she crushed it. She wasn't lucky.
 
Our friendship grew as did her support of the orphans. The same year she was holding her own event named BOSS. And from her platform she held a fundraiser for the orphans. $57,000 within 15 minutes. But it didn't stop there. Carrie continued to support and raise and give.
 
Over $100,000 for orphans within a few years of our friendship.
 
There's power in certainty. There's power in purpose. There's power in friendship.
 
Because these things, like so many other things, are not an accident.
 
 
 











Shhhhhhhhh
 
 
 
When you perform in secret, you don't have to talk in public.
 
Stop talking about what you're GOING to do and do it.
 
Stop gabbing about who you're GOING to be and be it.
 
 
 
 
 











Cause & Effect
 
 
 
Hear it?
 
The pumping.
 
The thumping.
 
The coursing.
 
The heartbeat of success flowing through your veins.
 
Do what you say.
 
You will feel a push like you have never felt before.
 
Task it.
 
Do it.
 
Claim it.
 
Celebrate it.
 
Follow the creates confidence
 
Do the reps.
 
Do the work.
 
Invest the energy.
 
Make the transactions.
 
Make the deposits.
 
It's the easiest equation in the world. . .  
 
Cause and effect.
 
 











What's Your Gym?
 
 
              
 
When I was twelve, my mom got me a Diversified Products plastic workout set for Christmas. Twenty pounds' worth. The paint on the navy blue bar peeled away the first week. The weights were purple and filled with concrete. The Incredible Hulk wore purple pants, so I felt in good company.
 
(Years later I learned Mom got the set because I was so small. She was afraid I would get beat up at school. Thanks, Mom!)
 
And so began my love affair with working out. I hate to run but I love to lift. My best friend says the gym is my space. "You come alive. You own it."
 
Though I'm not in the best shape, nor am I the most muscular, I do love the gym. It feels like home. 
 
There's the freedom to grunt. To be aggressive. To strain and struggle. To sweat. That's the reason we go—because we know that all that torture will result in a transformation.
 
What's your gym?
What's your space?
What arena do you need to own?
What habitat can you claim?
 
If you work from home, it might be your office. Own it. Crush the day under your mighty hand.
 
If you write, it may be your laptop. Possess it. Punish the keys with rapid strokes.
 
If you teach, perhaps it's your classroom. Rule it. Release your heart with skill and precision.
 
If you consult, then the phone might be your space. Grip it. Pour out your wisdom like a floodgate.
 
If you _________, then ___________. Reign over it. Command your _________.
 
C'mon, guys, let's grab some steel and work hard.
 
Let's sweat.
Let's groan.
Let's produce the results of our dreams.
 











Growth
 
 
 
 
How do you build muscle?
 
You train. 
You lift. 
You stress. 
You bring the muscle to failure.
 
It reacts. It responds. It recuperates.
 
The result: It grows.
 
It becomes stronger. Faster. Leaner. Bigger.
 
The function shifts. What used to be heavy becomes humbled. What used to be a load becomes light. 
 
The weight in your life you're whining about. . .  that's the stuff a strong existence is made of.
 











Your Success—Part 1
 
 
 
 
Your success reminds others of their failures.
 
That's why they badmouth. 
That's why they hate. 
That's why they demean. 
That's why they criticize.
That's why they laugh.
That's why they doubt.
That's why they poke.
That's why they bully.
That's why they denounce.
That's why they trash.
That's why they slam.
That's why they bash.
That's why they abuse.
That's why they slight.
That's why they blast.
That's why they discredit.
That's why they knock.
That's why they underrate.
That's why they minimize.
That's why they chide.
That's why they disparage.
That's why they smear.
That's why they attack.
That's why they castigate.
That's why they ream.
That's why they discount.
That's why they pummel.
That's why they judge.
That's why they penalize.
That's why they revile.
That's why they banish.
That's why they persecute.
That's why they dismiss.
 
Your success reminds them of their failures.
Your success threatens their mediocrity. 
 











Your Success—Part 2
 
 
 
 
"Our chief want is someone who will inspire us to be what we know we could be." 
—Ralph Waldo Emerson
 
Your success reminds others of the possibilities.
 
That's why they applaud. 
That's why they cheer. 
That's why they encourage. 
That's why they build.
That's why they smile.
That's why they boost.
That's why they compliment.
That's why they push.
That's why they spur.
That's why they buoy.
That's why they inspire.
That's why they promote.
That's why they urge.
That's why they champion.
That's why they defend.
That's why they fortify.
That's why they reassure.
That's why they support.
That's why they motivate.
That's why they praise.
That's why they approve.
That's why they affirm.
That's why they empower.
That's why they assure.
That's why they sustain.
That's why they elevate.
That's why they admire.
That's why they shield.
That's why they comfort.
That's why they bolster.
That's why they aid.
That's why they propel.
That's why they hustle.
 
Your success reminds them of their potential.
Your success challenges them to do and be more. 
 











2,343 Babies
 
 
 
 
I just interviewed 2,343 babies. Here are the results. . . .
 
100 percent did not walk on their first attempt. They all fell.
 
83 percent laughed when they dropped to their bottom.
13 percent cried.
4 percent ate something off the floor.
 
92 percent received cheers from the crowd for their stagger and plop.
 
8 percent got someone rushing to their aid to make sure they were OK.
 
98 percent were completely unconcerned about the pressure to walk (perform) for onlookers.
2 percent waited on purpose until no one was looking so they could take their steps in peace.
 
0 percent watched an instructional "how to walk" video before deciding to act.
 
99 percent never checked for five-star reviews or negative comments on firststepsforbaby.com.
 
1 percent did, but they cry at everything anyway.
 
50 percent finally walked as they were falling forward and trying to prevent gravity from winning.
 
31 percent took the first feeble step in slow motion with arms flailing.
 
16 percent were chasing a ball or a dog.
 
2 percent did a pirouette (show-offs!)
 
Falling is normal. Failing is normal. Staying down and never trying to walk again isn't. Even babies don't do that. 
 
Keep staggering. Keep stumbling. Keep walking. Keep achieving.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 











Let's Compare
 
 
 
 
"There is no passion to be found playing small — in settling for a life that is less than the one you are capable of living." —Nelson Mandela
 
Living by comparison exhausts you.
Imitating competitors suppresses you.
Releasing your capacity unleashes you.
 
Words fail to describe the weariness that accompanies doing everything for a reward. Whether it's applause or a sale or a check to the list.
 
Sometimes we just need to forget the result and take the action and see what result emerges.
 
Be you.
See what shows up.
See what sticks.
See what succeeds.
See what thrives.
See what flows.
See what energizes.
See what grows.
 
 











Hustorical
 
 
 
 
That time when you hustled like you were out of your mind.
 
Remember that time?
 
When you busted it.
When you sprinted.
When you strained.
When you couldn't sleep.
When you annihilated previous personal records.
When you laser-locked on the goal.
When you focused.
When you killed it.
When you crushed it.
When you almost lost your mind.
When you had that look.
When you shook the world.
When you couldn't be distracted.
When you laughed at potential.
When you elevated the game.
When you went fearless.
When you accomplished.
When you achieved.
 
Remember that hustorical time? Yes?
 
Do it again. 











Labels
 
 
 
 
"If I pick up a book with vampires on the cover, I want there to be vampires. If I pick up a book with spaceships on the cover, I want spaceships. If I see one with dragons, I want there to be dragons inside the book. Proper labeling. Ethical labeling." —Margaret Atwood
 
Labels get a bad rap.
 
"Jock." "Nerd." "Cheerleader." "Gamer." "Bookworm." "Academic."
 
Yes, there's a fear of getting pigeonholed. A fear of not being able to break out. A fear of getting a negative tag.
 
On the other hand, labels define and distribute.
They help us recognize the value of ourselves and others.
 
"Teacher." "Coach." "Consultant." "Doctor." "Mom." "Dad."
 
Those labels work well for us. They aren't negative.
 
A label can be assigned or designed.
 
Assigned may come in the form of an occupation or an action.
 
Designed may come in the form of a goal or a dream.
 
The first comes with position.
 
The second forms with passion and sweat.
 
What's your label? How do you want to be known? What do you want people to whisper in the hallways or shout from the rooftops?
 
"There goes the achiever."
 
"The all-action, no-talk girl is coming this way."
 
"Look at him. The non-procrastinator. Who does he think he is?"
 
I know that feels a bit silly. But it's just as silly to let a negative label stick and suck you down. You might as well be who you want and attach your own label.
 
 











In Want of Life
 
 
 
 
Get greedy.
Get possessive.
Get demanding.
Get insatiable.
Get impatient.
Get obsessed.
Get ravenous.
Get consumed.
 
Want. Life.
 
Those words translate into that want. The desire to be more. To try harder. To pursue.
 
Is that over-the-top? Is it extreme? Yes. But feel it for a second. Feel those words. 
 
What actions take place with a feeling of contentment? What actions take place with the feeling of want? Do you feel that shift?
 
The actions driven by the desire to grow and achieve are exceptionally different from the decisions made in the heart of satisfied.
 
Want.
 
Want to be the best parent.
Want to be the best employee.
Want to be the best employer.
Want to be the friend.
Want to be the best shape.
Want to be the best author.
Want to be the best leader.
Want to be the best believer.
Want to be the best ______.
 
 
 
 
 











Stinky
 
 
 
 
Whew. I stink.
Sweat ferments.
 
We get ripe.
Because we worked.
We pushed.
We hammered.
The body responded.
With sweat.
 
No work.
No sweat.
No stink.
 
Stink. It. Up.
 











Universal Pain
 
 
 
 
Not everyone can relate to our successes, but they do our pain.
 
"I just won the lottery!" Good for you.
 
"I just got pulled over and got a ticket." Been there.
 
Pain is universal. Hurt connects us. Tears join our hearts. Aches turn into bonds.
 
A good friend of mine is a multi-multi-multi-millionaire. When he's asked, "How's it going?" he replies, "Living the dream!"
 
My other friends respond with, "Of course he is!"
 
We can't relate. Some can. Most can't. Most don't know what it's like to have millions upon millions of dollars.
 
On the other hand, he experienced a heartbreaking loss a few years ago. One of his children committed suicide. I remember going to see him a few hours after it happened. His son told me he was out walking in the neighborhood.
 
I went to look for him among the mansions lining the street.
 
Blocks away I heard him crying. Sobbing.
 
When he saw me in the distance he yelled, "He's gone, Paul! He's gone!"
 
No. I have not lost a child. I have lost a wife. I know the pain of loss. The empty. The hurt. The ache. The wonder. The what-ifs.
 
That pain drew us closer than his money ever could have. It's difficult to bond in success. It's easy to bond in pain.
 











Celebrate Survival
 
 
 
 
The concept of thriving is relatively new.
 
A hundred or more years ago, survival was the focus.
 
Food on the table.
Avoid a plague.
Protect the family.
 
Today, thriving and "extra" fuel the expectation.
"Make every moment count" goes the mantra.
Be driven in the pursuit of the dream.
Push harder and faster to reach the peak.
 
Live out loud.
Don't play small.
Just do it.
Go big or go home.
 
I love the dream. The energy. The obsession.
But it's not for everyone. And that's OK.
There is plenty to celebrate in the quiet life.
There is more than enough for the steady.
 
Plus, there are plenty who are still surviving.
 
The single parent working three jobs.
Exhausted and worn, yet making ends meet.
 
The college student up till 4 a.m. studying.
Struggling to keep the scholarship.
 
The daughter at the bedside of her mom.
A mom who can't remember her.
 
A dad who got fired over the phone.
He drives home in tears wondering about the next check.
 
Everything can't be all passion all the time.
Sometimes life hurts and harms.
Sometimes life bears a weight to the weary.
Sometimes life overwhelms and suffocates.
 
Celebrate all successes. 
No matter how small.
 
Celebrate survival. 
A meal on the table.
The lights still on.
A smile on a dark day.
 
 
 
 











Wake Up
 
 
 
Shock the system.
Make the commitment.
Set the alarm.
Hit the floor.
Move!
 
You finish . . . 
your run
your writing 
your reading
your study . . .  
while dreamers dream.
 
When your neighbor is getting up wondering what the day is going to hold, you've already owned the day. Your day has already fed you. Your day is in full tilt.
 
You're wide-awake and doing the deeds, while the world sleeps. While the world stays in bed. While the world hits snooze.
 
Your direction is set. Your determination is clear. Your destination is closer than ever before.
 
 











Crusade
 
 
 
This morning I breakfasted with the founder of a non-profit.
 
Her passion spilled.
Her eyes filled with the fire of hope.
Her words flowed with purpose and meaning.
Her voice consumed the room.
Nothing. No one. Would hold her back.
 
She doesn't just have a purpose and a passion.
She has a cause and a crusade.
She possesses a message and a mission.
 
Her vision transferred to me and I was a believer by the time the napkins hit the table and the dishes were cleared.
 
That's the power of clarity. That's the energy created by a heart that won't be stopped.
 
That's what you need to keep you going when quit closes in. When resistance blocks your way. When excuses bar your door.
 
A cause that carries you.
A crusade that propels you.
A mission that fuels you.
A message that moves you.











Old School
 
 
 
My grandfather, Daddy B, was a high school principal in the 1940s.
 
I got my height from him. Both of us hover round five foot five and a half, or 65 inches.
 
His frame . . . small.
His character . . . gigantic.
 
He passed away a few years ago, but his presence and impact remains.
 
Occasionally, former students will mention my grandfather.
 
"Mr. Bratton didn't mess around. When we heard his wingtip shoes slap the hallway's wooden floors, the school went silent."
 
"Worst whipping I never got came when Mr. Bratton stared at me with pale blue eyes. Shook his head slightly. And said, 'I sure am disappointed. I expected more.'"
 
"He grabbed my earlobe and led me out of the room. I was scared," said six-foot-six-inch Mikey.
 
"You always knew he loved you and cared about you."
 
"Mr. Bratton encouraged and shaped us."
 
Daddy B was old-fashioned and traditional. He believed you respected all adults. He believed you did what you were told. He believed you worked hard to earn your living. He believed in appropriate discipline to redirect actions and attitude.
 
We need more of that old-school belief.
 
We need more discipline and no excuses.
We need more work and no lazy.
We need more truth and no lies.
We need more respect and no arrogance.
 
 
 
 











Fear
 
 
 
"I can accept failure, everyone fails at something. But I can't accept not trying." —Michael Jordan
 
Stop thinking you're special in your fear of failing.
 
Everyone fears rejection.
Everyone fears embarrassment.
Everyone fears failure.
Everyone fears wasted effort.
Everyone fears "What if."
 
You're not alone in your fear. Not unique. Not a snowflake.
 
Fear paralyzes, creates doubt, and magnifies indecision.
 
Fear leverages the unknown and visualizes the worst-case scenario.
 
Fears stops us from dreaming, and risking, and acting.
 
The wages of fear are regret and wonder and "What could have been?"
 
Perhaps there exist a few fearless souls. I'm not one of them. I stretch to tap into fear-less. Often I consider what I fear-more. Maybe that will work for you as well. . . 
 
Fear-less the response of the critic and fear-more the unreached masses that would be changed by your writing.
 
Fear-less the incomplete marathon and fear-more the physical condition you'll be in if you don't train.
 
Fear-less the interview and fear-more the creditors pounding the phone with calls.
 
Fear-less the dry throat and shaking voice and fear-more the message never shared with the audience.
 
Fear-less the rejection of your love and fear-more the silent suffering of not knowing the answer.
 
Fear-less the lack of support and fear-more the calling that you ignore.
 
We all fear. We all want to produce our art and receive rave reviews and complete acceptance. 
 
Yet, we know that can't happen. Mainly because we have all been someone's fear. We haven't raved about everything. We haven't supported everyone. We haven't five-starred every book or movie. We haven't encouraged every dream of a friend or family member. Maybe that gnaws at us just a little and prevents us from letting go. Maybe that's part of the reason we find ourselves being fear-full, rather than fear-less.
 
Regardless, don't let fear win. Just for today, fear a little less the negatives and fear a little more the unattained positives.
 
 
 











Sleep Sick
 
 
1:11 a.m.
 
Three hours of sleep and I'm awake. Wide awake. But I know in a few hours regret will hit. Tired will hit. Sleep sick will hit.
 
Sleep sick is that achy, shaky tired that hits you hard after the "wide awake" wears off.
 
Usually an hour or so after the sun peeks, the sick hits.
 
A little nauseous. A little head-achy. Face sunken. Eyes weak. Legs dead. You just want to lie down. You just want to go back to bed.
 
But you can't.
Work waits.
The clock ticks.
 
The world rushes while your brain is in slo-mo.
 
So suck it up. Push through. Force the focus. Complete the task. Run the course. 
 
It won't be the best day ever, but it will still count, because against the odds you kept going.
 











Reasons
 
 
 
In general, we are loaded with excuses. 
 
Reasons why we can't.
Reason why we don't.
 
And it's convincing. Shared with confidence.
 
"Too busy."
"Too much going on."
"Once I get past this season."
"Just as soon as I. . . "
"It's not a priority."
 
But that's a load.
 
Just stories we tell ourselves to make us feel better about the action we should have taken.
 
Stop reading right now and do the thing you're ignoring.
 
 











Hair
 
 
 
"Hair is so important to success." —Rebecca McCartha
 
That quote comes from my mom. I come from a family of "appearances."
 
My grandmother never left the house without makeup and lipstick. Come to think of it, I never saw her at breakfast in less than her Sunday best.
 
My mom has said, "How do I look?" more times than a baby says, "Wah!"
 
Before you consider us too shallow (and we are), consider this . . . you feel better, act better, and work better when you look better.
 
Don't believe me?
 
Let's say you are going to start running. 
 
Put on some old shoes, old shorts, a baggy shirt. You look like a real mess. You feel like a mess. And I'm willing to bet your running will be a mess. You'll struggle to find a way to "hide" while you run. You know everyone is staring. You know they are shaking their heads. You know they are using words like, "Pitiful."
 
Now then.
 
Chances are better than good that when you imagine yourself running, you're wearing a sharp-looking outfit. New shoes. Clothes that fit correctly. When you run, your posture shifts. Your stride is stronger. You're more upright and more confident. 
 
Why?
 
Because you don't look like a mess. You don't feel like a mess. And that translates into performance.
 
 











On Your Mark
 
 
 
"Good things come to people who wait, but better things come to those who go out and get them." 
—Anonymous
 
"On your mark."
 
The start. The origin. The beginning.
 
"Get set."
 
Ready yourself. Prepare yourself. Position yourself.
 
"Go!"
 
Launch. Propel. Run. Speed. Sprint. Jump. Thrust.
 
Those words. Shouted millions of times on playgrounds, at track meets, at speedways. Six words. Simple. Do them.
 
 











What Would You
 
 
 
What would you write. . . 
 
If your name never showed?
If you couldn't be rated or reviewed?
If no one could comment?
 
What would you say. . . 
 
If no one could respond?
If you didn't fear rejection?
If you didn't crave acceptance?
 
What would you do. . . 
 
If money didn't factor?
If time didn't shackle?
If no one knew it was you?
 
Fear inhibits our writing, speaking, doing.
 
At times it should, because there are things we shouldn't write or say or do. But they are few. 
 
There are other things, however, which need to be published, shouted and shared. But fear strangles. It breeds caution. It invents and imagines the reaction of the world. It whispers, "Amateur." It slips into our minds, takes up residence, and consistently points out why it's just better to stay quiet.
 
And then. With two small words, fear gives us hope. A way out. The right to remain silent.
 
Fear leans in, and right against our ear so we can feel its breath, it exhales, "For now."
 
"Don't write that . . . for now. You'll be better one day. After years of writing in the dark you can step into the light."
 
"Don't say that . . . for now. Your time will come when you have more credibility and more authority and more right to say something so bold."
 
"Don't do that . . . for now. Leadership is granted, not grabbed. Be content to follow until you are positioned by another."
 
O fear. You're so sly like that. Not killing the dream, just telling us to wait. Assuring us that our patience will be rewarded. Hinting at the bright future.
 
Fear, you liar, you. You know we will always be insecure. We will always doubt. We will always feel we are not good enough.
 
Fear, here's where you messed up. You blew it. You didn't pay attention to the other voices. The voices of encouragement. The ones who grew from the words we were scared to send out, but did anyway. The ones who thanked us after the knee-knocking speech. The ones who shook our hands after taking a feeble stand. Terrified, yet driven by passion, we released our imperfection and lives were touched. Support came to us in our weakness. 
 
Our "time" may never come. And that's OK. We won't be content while we wait "for now." 
 
We will write . . . now.
We will speak . . . now
We will act . . . now.
 











Weary. Weak. Worn.
 
 
 
 
No one escapes.
 
It can come on us suddenly. Or after a slow build. We may wake with it. Or it may hit right when the lights go out.
 
It can be hard to pinpoint the source or reason for the weight at times. Often there's not a big trigger; it's just there. Like a dark cloud. A heavy silence.
 
Weary immobilizes. It drains us of momentum. It blurs the mind. It robs us of power. It threatens our achievement from every side.
 
 
 











Willpower
 
 
 
"With but few exceptions, it is always the underdog who wins through sheer willpower."
—Johnny Weissmuller
 
Willpower. 
 
The power to continue when the will departs.
The power to fight when the will weakens.
The power to drive on when the will derails.
The power to push when the will pulls.
The power to win when the will quits.
The power to go when the will stops.
The power to say yes when the will discourages.
The power to strive when the will cries.
The power to grow when the will shrinks.
The power to grind when the will dies.
The power to hustle when the will stiffens.
The power to accelerate when the will resists.
The power to recharge when the will depletes.
The power to declare when the will lies.
The power to stand when the will falls.
The power to keep trying when the will fails.
The power to fly when the will gravitates.
The power to run when the will stalls.
 
I will power through the struggle.
 
I will power toward the goal and destination.
I will power up when drained by life.
 
I will power down when reactive and out of control.
 
I will power on despite doubt.
 
I will power off fear and insecurity.
 
 











Potential haunts.
 
 
 
Staying close. Spooking you into believing there was more. How much more? No one knows, for potential remains impossible to calculate.
 
Potential hunts.
 
Chasing you. Got you in its crosshairs. Targeting your mind and heart. Creating doubt in your achievements. Perhaps there was . . . more.
 
Potential hustles.
 
Runs to the future. To the grave. "What if you die with the music still in you?" potential asks. "Even worse, what if you never discover the music at all?"
 
Potential. 
 
Stacking wonder. What "could" you become? Using the vocabulary of "untapped" and "unclaimed" to generate dissatisfaction with the greatest step forward.
 











Your Five
 
 
 
"You are the average of the five people you spend the most time with." —Jim Rohn
 
Uh-oh.
 
That sounds like bad news, because most of our personal average comes from hanging out with the average. Average lives. Average incomes. But super nice. Incredibly sweet and loving people.
 
So do we need to give up our friends? Do we have to say goodbye to those average folks if we seek greatness? If awesome is on the agenda? If incredible lurks on the horizon?
 
No.
 
We are the average of the five (or more) influencers.
 
You can hang out with Sweet Sally all you want, but if you're looking for influence to become a millionaire, then she doesn't influence on that level. You choose someone specifically for that.
 
Where do you want to go? Who do you want to be? Find those who can influence you to that level.
 
What makes us go farther faster than fear ever could?
What propels us forward with focus?
What causes us to do more than we ever thought possible?
What creates risk without the thought of consequence?
 
 











Success Scars
 
 
 
Success shines. Glimmers. Glistens.
 
We see the success of others and our eyes light up. 
For a moment we drift. We slide into their lives. 
 
We imagine. . . .
 
The limelight. 
The ease. 
The hope. 
The perfect days of living with a specific purpose.
The lack of financial worry.
The satisfaction and fulfillment.
 
We smile.
 
We smile because we imagined. . . .
Success without the scars.
Success without the wounds.
Success without the doubts.
Success without the insomnia.
Success without the pain.
Success without the attacks.
Success without the strain.
Success without the struggle.
Success without the judgment.
Success without the critique.
Success without the stabs.
Success without the tears.
Success without the ache.
 
We smile because we see the shine, the glimmer, the glisten.
 
Step closer. Look deep.
 
The scar on the chin reveals an unexpected crash.
 
The wound on the heart beats to the drum of hurt.
 
The doubt on the mind continues to question ability and talent.
 
The insomnia in the night awakens fear.
 
The pain in the hands from working long and hard.
 
The attacks on the character from friends and family who laugh at the dream.
 
The strain on the arms from lifting alone at times.
 
The judgment of plans by those well respected.
 
The critique of results by those who expected more of a return on investment.
 
The stab in the back from the one closest and dearest.
 
The tears from the eyes when hope is lost and starting over is the only option.
 
The ache in the feet from trudging on when everyone else went home.
 
Success scars.
 
Those scars hold a story. The true story of what it took to achieve what looks to be easy and significance.
 
Your success contains scars as well. The failures. The hurts. The quits. The cries.
 
Success rises from the battleground, not the playground. Prepare for battle. Share your scars with pride when others ask about your success.
 
 











The Battle
 
 
 
He strained.
He stretched.
He pushed.
 
Deep breath.
Long exhale.
Almost.
 
He struggled.
He leaned.
He groaned.
 
New resolve
Determined grit
Nearer
 
He writhed
He strove
He squirmed
 
Anger welled
Tears formed
Close
 
He pursued
He tugged
He wrestled
 
Finally
 
He won
 
Shoes tied
 
Time to run
 











Missing Meaning
 
 
 
 
"You are reading this right now because this is your moment. You have been attracted to this training because your potential has been crying out. You know you were designed for more. Your destiny awaits. The life of meaning your were designed for is about to be unleashed. Are you ready to live your true purpose?"
 
Do you feel that you missed meaning?
Purpose passed you by?
Your "one thing" didn't show?
Your calling never rang?
Your significance signed off?
 
You're not alone. Billions do.
 
But they are wrong. You are wrong. You didn't miss it and you were not passed by. You decided.
 
Purpose and meaning are a choice. You get to decide what you will do and how you will do it. You get to choose what you want to pursue. 
 
Don't allow waiting for your calling to be your excuse for wasting your life. Your life doesn't have to feel good to be good. You do not have to feel the tug of outrageous meaning.
 
When you help another. When you serve another. Your life matters. Period. No ethereal experience required.
 
 
 
 
 











Where Were You?
 
 
 
"Where did you go? I couldn't find you."
 
That's usually what a lost kid says to his parent.
 
But it also seems to be what 90-something percent of people say to themselves.
 
Of course, we adultify it some. . . . What's my purpose? How can I find significance? Why don't I fit in? Who am I?
 
In response, some of us shake our fist at the world and scream, "I'm a rebel, you can't make me conform!" But that's not who we are; it's just what we shout to avoid looking lost. Rebels appear certain, but can be as causeless as the next wanderer.
 
Some of us conform completely. "Ah, she's accepted. I'll be that." And we chameleon our way through life.
 
Some of us go quiet and dark. "No one knows I exist. I don't know who I am anyway." And we shrink back. Hole up. Pull the sheets over our heads and ignore the dawn.
 
"Where did you go?"
 
At some point you knew you. You felt alive. You were certain. You climbed trees or played with dolls or put on a cape or painted or built or read or wrote or rhymed or rapped or sang or taught or designed or reasoned or studied or laughed or smiled or led or followed or worked or dreamed or flew or. . . . You did, and you knew.
 
"Where did you go?"
 
Were you hurt or judged or questioned or told to grow up or critiqued or reviewed or laughed at or rejected or abused or labeled or cast out or insecure or fearful or not included or disappointed or fired or disillusioned or crushed or terrified or racked up failures or abandoned or weakened?
It's OK. We all have been. We all still do. You're in good company.
 
Is it safe to be who you are? Nope. It's risky. It's an exposed place of authenticity that some people will feel the right to pick apart because they are lost too and they are searching for themselves. Maybe they see a spark of themselves in you and since they can't live it, they don't want you to live it either.
 
However, the vast, vast, vast majority will celebrate you. They will cheer you. The will be encouraged by you being you. The will learn to sing again because of you. They will learn to shine again because of you. They will learn to be themselves again because you chose to be you.
 
"Where did you go?"
 
Ahhhhhh. There you are. We've been looking for you!
 
 











Be the Art
 
 
 
Being the critic is easy. Being the art is dangerous.
 
The critic points. The art displays.
 
The critic judges. The art frees.
 
Yes, you will be afraid to be art because of the critic. The critic's pen. The critic's eye. The critic's review. 
 
Be the art, not the critic.
 











Failure
 
Failure. It's a word that makes most people fearful or ashamed. A term that makes many want to throw up. It sounds so final.
 
"You're a failure."
 
What a pronouncement. A label. A crushing epitaph. It feels like the end.
 
Unless. Unless you're into physical culture. 
 
For about 10 years I was a bodybuilder and power lifter. Nothing was desired more than failure. 
 
The goal was to force the body to grow. Force the body to become stronger. And you know how you do that? Failure. By taking the body to the point in which it can no longer lift a particular weight, it's forced to adapt. Get stronger or get defeated. Take the muscle to failure in order to take it to greater success.
 
You couldn't become a power lifter by being a light lifter. You couldn't build big muscles by training with little weights. It's common sense, so we embraced failure. We craved failure. 
 
Oddly enough, we would invent ways of making failure more excruciating by using "drop sets," "super sets," or "forced reps." Anything to make it more painful. Anything to make failure more complete.
 
For us . . . failure equaled growth.
 
Why can't we see it that way in other areas? Mainly because we see failure as judgment, not as a lesson or a tool or a possibility.  
 
Go strong. Force failure. Grow.
 











Luck
 
 
 
"You make your own luck."
 
True. But what does it take to make it? How do you create this mysterious luck?
 
Think. 
Plan. 
Act. 
 
Over and over again you act. 
 
 











Why I Am Happy 92 Percent of the Time
 
 
 
It might be a little higher than 92 percent, but I didn't want to brag. And I am not afraid at all for you to talk to any of my friends and family to find out if I am telling the truth.
 
It's said that happiness is based on circumstances, while joy is based in the Holy Spirit. Joy is NOT determined by circumstances. We can all have it, regardless of our situation.
 
Our son, Sam. He's happy a lot too.
 
However, I am talking about being happy.  This is about creating circumstances that produce happiness.
 
In order to get and stay happy, some nouns  (people, places and things) may have to change. More importantly, you may have to change. (I know I did!)
 
Before getting to the Six Habits of Ridiculous Happiness, here's a quick test to help you determine if you have the raw materials necessary to make happiness easier.
 
Personal Happiness Test: Do you feel that a lot of life happens TO you? Or do you feel that a lot of life happens BECAUSE of you?
 
If you answered TO, then you're going to have a tough time being happy. You most likely have a "victim" mindset. Nothing goes your way. The world is against you. You're self-focused.
 
If you answered BECAUSE, then you're going to have an easy time being happy. You most likely have a "contributor" mindset. A lot just seems to go your way. The world is waiting for your next action. You are others-focused.
 
The good news is that every TO person can become a BECAUSE person. Every BECAUSE person can become a BE-CAUSE person. This will help. . . .
 
6 Habits of Ridiculous Happiness
 
Habit #1: Love.
 
Loved by God. John 3:16. I take that verse very seriously (and I don't take much seriously at all).
 
It seems like a lot of folks on the planet are searching for acceptance. John 3:16 takes care of that. That makes me happy. (Of course, you have to accept this truth. If you keep making that "why I'm worthless" list, you're never gonna have a permanent smile.)
 
Love others.  You may recognize this as the Second Commandment. Loving others makes you happier. You think about people and smile. You look for ways to carry out. . . .
 
Habit #2: Helping Others
 
This is a BIG key to happiness. When we serve others, I'm convinced it releases some sort of happy chemical. Doing something cool or sweet for someone unleashes a wave of goodness. You can:
 
Help an old lady get her groceries in her car.
 
Give a smile to the cashier.
 
Serve in a local mission or soup kitchen.
 
Sponsor an orphan.
 
Write a thank-you note.
 
Leave a gigantic tip. (I did this at Waffle House last week and the waitress screamed so loud I could hear her at my car.)
 
Warning: there will be times when you serve and get rejected. The old lady might hit you with her cane. The cashier might give you the one-finger wave. The waitress might take your tip and say, "It's about time."
 
Happiness is about the action you take, not the response you get.
 
Helping others is something we all CAN and SHOULD do every day to be happier. If you're self-centered, I think you deserve to be miserable.
 
Habit #3: Laughter.
 
I love to laugh and love to help other people laugh. If you want to be happier, you need to get funnier. Or at least get a sense of humor if you don't have one.
 
One of the best things about Facebook is the number of funny sayings, images and videos that are shared. You don't have to be funny. On Facebook, others can be funny for you.
 
Certainly you need to be able to laugh at yourself. Most of my keynote speeches open with a segment called, "The Advantages of Being Short." I make fun of myself while clearly pointing out that tall people will all be my height one day. :) We all have a good time and folks find out that I'm not some serious speaker that's come to drain them of life through boredom.
 
How can you help others laugh more?
 
Habit #4: Work.
 
If you HATE your work, it's gonna be tough to be happy. Hate and happy just don't go together. They're not good dance partners.
 
On the other hand, if you love your work and who you work with and who you work for, it's much easier to be happy.
 
"Paul, you don't know my boss. He's a real jerk! You'd be miserable, too, if he was your commander."
 
Go back to Habit #2. If you can't beat them, serve them.
 
Heads up: If you've hated every job you've ever had, you must find the problem. What's the ONE thing all those jobs had in common? Ah. . . . YOU!
 
Since you can't fire yourself, make yourself better and your work will be better. And you'll be happier.
 
Habit #5: Wiring.
 
Worry kills happiness.
 
OK, I've got an advantage here. I've never been a worrier. Some of my friends are, though. I've seen them in mental wrestling matches with the great "What if?" The matches can go on for days, even weeks.
 
I knew I could never compete with them in the arena, so I decided not to worry. I mean, some of these folks are real pros!
 
I'm not a psychologist so I can't make you stop worrying. And I don't know a magic formula—but I do recommend you go to YouTube and type in "Bob Newhart Stop It." That might help.
 
Habit #6 Quit
 
I'm a quitter. I say that with no shame. Any job or activity that made me sad long-term I quit. That's right. I did not battle through. Did not stay the course. I quit.
 
Noooooo . . . don't start quitting everything. You can't just up and quit your job, but. . . .
 
You can quit things that don't help with happiness.
 
Quit smoking so you'll be healthier.
 
Quit eating out so much so you'll be wealthier.
 
There are a lot of things we could quit immediately that would help, right?
 
Why not make a list? During the week when you feel blah or sad, write down why. Then, determine if you can change what's creating that feeling. If you can, then do it.
 
A caution here, though. It's not about OUR happiness. People have done a lot of dumb, hurtful and harmful things in pursuit of happiness. Our happiness is not to come at the sacrifice or damage of others.
 
What's keeping you from being happy?
 











Inspiration
 
 
 
"I write only when inspiration strikes. Fortunately it strikes every morning at nine o'clock sharp." —W. Somerset Maugham
 
You control inspiration. You dictate it. You command it.
 
Make your choice. Set your clock. Do your thing. No excuses or whining or waiting. 
 
We've been hypnotized into believing the romantic image of creativity and purpose. We've bought into the thought that the things we need to do should feel a certain way or we should just wait until it arrives.
 
Don't fall for it. The feeling rarely shows up on its own. It's triggered.
 
Triggered by necessity.
Triggered by desire.
Triggered by must.
Triggered by want.
 
Above all, let it be triggered by discipline and honestly.
 
Discipline - do what you should do, when you should do it, whether you want to or not.
 
Honesty - do what you said you would.
 
Stop lying to yourself about tomorrow. Inspiration doesn't strike you. You strike it.
 











The Rock
 
 
 
"In 1995 I had $7 in my pocket and I knew two things: I'm broke as hell and one day I won't be." —Dwayne Johnson, aka The Rock.
 
What do you KNOW?
 
Not guessing. Not wondering. Not hoping.
 
What do you KNOW?
 
There's a big difference in the belief and action of the person who hopes and the one who knows. 
 
The one who hopes accepts the possibility of it not working out and usually holds back. They fail to pursue to the edge of the world.
 
The person who knows accepts the feat as accomplished. It's only a matter of steps to claim what they already believe they own.
 
This thing you want . . . the book, the charity, the body, the job, the business, the competition, the stage, the money . . . do you KNOW? What are you CERTAIN of?
 
It's an important question. It deserves your time. We go after "sure things" much harder than "hope so."
 
"Hope so" creates a fissure of disbelief. It protects us from disappointment. If we falter or fail or give up or give in, then our fragile psyche will convince us that it was only a dream anyway. Hope so will pat your little heart and tell you it's OK. It will coddle you and whisper that you were meant for bigger things.
 
"Know so" drives action. It's a given result. Know so wakes you in the morning with a bolt. It makes it difficult to sleep because IT doesn't exist yet and IT must. When you know you don't have to search for motivation or inspiration, it's always a heart beat away begging to be given the opportunity to make the dream a reality.
 
If you know, you go. If you hope, you mope.
 
 
 
 











Beware the 32 Percent
 
 
 
 
One of my buddies said, "Paul, one of the things I admire the most about you, is that you do not care what anybody thinks about you."
 
Now that's not true, I do. I've got like three people . . . I've got like two people that I really care about what they think. 
 
Well, why don't I care about what people think? I'll give you four types of people super quick. When I say that I don't care, it's not that I don't care about people, but I don't care about their judgment. 
 
Number one is that there are a lot of deranged people. I got this from this from the Internet, so you know it's true. Every year about 42.5 million American adults suffer from some mental illness—that's 18.2 percent. 
 
If I were to round that up, I would round it to roughly 32 percent. So, about a third of people have a disorder. 
 
I'm not making fun of disorders, and I'm not making fun of you if you are medicated or if you need extra support in that way. I've been pretty clear that I'm unmedicated and have ADHD, often to the extreme. I've got my own disorders myself, so you probably shouldn't care if I judge you. 
 
I had a guy email me and say that he hated me so much he wanted to bash my head in with a rock. Me. That guy is in the 32 percent. 
 
Second, a lot of people are just hurting. They're wounded, they've been hurt by life and they are just lashing out. It's not that you caused their problem, and you're not their problem at all, but somebody is their problem. We just happen to be the target. 
 
So we gotta cut them out. We can't care what they think about us because they are not thinking about us at all. They are thinking about themselves and how hurt they are and we are an easy way for them to release that hurt. 
 
The third type of people are those who are just jealous. They are angry. They want to be in your position. They feel like that you're getting undue attention that they should be getting, so they are going to write a bad review or post snarky comments. In some way they are going to try to detract from you to make themselves feel better about their "less than" accomplishments.
              
The fourth type is personality differences. It's no big deal. We're not meant to get along with everybody, and we're not meant to like everybody. 
 
We can love people, and we can love humanity, and still not get along with folks. But the number one reason that most of us get bothered by what other people say and think is because that's where we are seeking our validation. It's where we measure our worth. So if we get like "unliked" by one person, we start to question our very existence. 
 
That could qualify us for the 32 percent. Listen, we should just be doing good stuff. We should pursue valid things. We should be living valuable lives, and that should be enough for us. That should make us feel like, "It was good that I was here today because somebody else was blessed or somebody else grew or I helped somebody else." 
 
That's what our life and our purpose are really about. Service. It's not about measuring every comment that comes in.
              
So, do I care what people think about me? Most of the time, I don't, and you shouldn't either. As long as you are living a valuable life, that should be above all the rocks. Even if there are some 32 percenters that want to bash your head in. 
 
 
 











Compound Interest
 
 
 
In school, math was never my best friend, nor was it my enemy. A necessary evil. A complicate blessing.
 
Not once has algebra come to my rescue (to my knowledge, anyway).
 
Calculus never lifted me from the dark days.
 
However, compounding brought a smile. The thought of investing once and then it gains and gains upon itself. How glorious.
 
$100 invested at 10% brings the total to $110.
 
The next year, 10% is paid on not $100, but on $110!
 
And if you were lucky, you got one of those charts that showed the results in 10, 20 30, 40, or 50 years. A tiny sum would eventually be riches. All from compounding.
 
But only if the money stayed put. Pull it out and spend it and you lose future gains. If you give u on the system or wreck the money train.
 
It works in other areas, too. . . .
 
If you lose fat and gain muscle, that muscle begins burning more calories. The more muscle, the higher the metabolism. Workout upon workout upon workout and the effects compound.
 
It works in the negative. . . .
 
If you hurt someone again and again and again, it compounds to the point at which the relationship is forever lost.
 
Compounding.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 











You've Got This
 
 
 
In the darkest nights and the lowest lows there is always someone there who says, "You've got this."
 
That used to make me mad because it is so dismissive. It's an encouragement kiss. A nice, neat statement with no direction or help.
 
It always felt like "Good luck," followed by a laugh.
 
Then I realized it's one of the truest statements ever stated or written. You DO have this.
 
You have the ability to discover a way to get away from whatever it is that you've got.
 
You have the smarts to figure a way out.
 
You have the connections to be dragged out.
 
You have the Internet and can find a plan with a path to move you to where you need to be.
 
You have meds or can get meds if needed to help you get rid of it.
 
You have teachers and trainers and coaches you can call to help guide you.
 
You have people in your corner you can call on or lean on or vent on.
 
You've got this. And you get to decide if you're going to keep it or do something about it.
 
 
 











Teddy's Bullet
 
 
 
October 12, 1912. Theodore Roosevelt on the campaign trail. He's in an open car in Milwaukee. Stands up to greet the crowd and give his speech, and an unemployed saloon keeper steps forward, shooting him from five feet away. 
 
Fortunately, he had a 50-page speech and his glasses case in his coat jacket. The bullet actually went through the speech, went through the glasses case, and lodged between his third and fourth rib on an upward trajectory to his heart. 
 
He hushed the crowd. Teddy said, "Ladies and gentleman, I urge you to be as quiet as possible. I don't know if you understand that I've been shot." Everybody urged him to go to the hospital. They tried to kill the shooter right on the spot. Of course, his people wanted to whisk Teddy Roosevelt away, and he said no. He wanted to give his speech. 
 
With a bullet lodged in his body, he spoke for 90 minutes before going to the hospital.
 
Guys, I think it's embarrassing how soft we are. I think it's embarrassing that someone makes a negative comment on our blog or when reviewing a product, and it sideswipes us. It puts us down for the day, down for the count. We begin wondering if we should even be in this business. 
 
It's embarrassing that we release something that doesn't do as well as we think it should and we feel like giving up. 
 
It's embarrassing that we make promises to ourselves and to others about goals that we're going to make, or weight that we're going to lose, or directions that we're going to go. We hit a little speed bump, or a little hiccup, or we go by Dunkin' Donuts, and suddenly our entire goal and plan is just laid out and we want to quit. 
 
It's embarrassing that we promise we are going to get up and run and it is cold outside so we decide not to. 
 
It's embarrassing that we decide that we're going to be focused and we're completely unfocused the next day. 
 
It's embarrassing that we say that we're going to write the book but we can't even get up and turn on the computer. 
 
It's embarrassing to say that we want to be a better parent but we won't take one step toward it, reading books or reading articles, or rearranging our schedule for our kids. 
 
It's embarrassing just how soft we are and how easily we give up. 
 
It's embarrassing. 
 
Sometimes we just need to take the bullet. 
 
 
 











Discount Winning
 
 
 
"If I had all the contacts she has I'd be closing deals too."
 
"The referees were awful. That team didn't deserve to win."
 
"Sure he lost all that weight. He was able to afford a nutritionist and a personal trainer."
 
Even when you win, you lose. The jealous are quick to discount your win. They can explain how you didn't deserve it. How you had an advantage. How you played the system.
 
They never congratulate or cheer. They investigate and interrogate. They employ slighting phrases like, "Wow! It sure must be nice to have _______, that sure made ______ so much easier for you."
 
They disregard the work, the sweat, the tears. They never ask how you accomplished your success; they only point out the imaginary loophole that made it possible for you to step to the spotlight.
 
And when they can't find any evidence of a shortcut, they use the oldest fallback ever recorded: "You sure are lucky."
 
Don't let the jealous dissuade you. Don't let them hold you back from stepping forward. Don't let their jeers keep you from the cheers.
 
Let them cry foul, shout cheat and turn green with envy. Make sure they have enough oxygen and space for their extended presentation on your "luck." Give them the platform and the microphone and the time slot.
 
Because all their words and all their vibrato doesn't change the fact.
 
The fact that you worked.
The fact that you drove.
The fact that you planned.
The fact that you strove.
The fact that you pursued.
The fact that you trudged.
The fact that you pressed.
The fact that you pushed.
The fact that you toiled.
 
The fact that you did all that while they lay slumped on the couch talking about you and everyone else they will never be like.
 
 
 











Productivity Secret
 
 
 
The Secret to Getting More Done Than You Ever Thought Possible
 
1. Make a list of what you must finish.
 
2. Do those things.
 











Tears
 
 
 
Someday the motivation won't arrive. Inspiration seems worlds away. Disappointment sets in. You're heavy, weak, and weary.
 
You want to. . . .
 
Cry.
 
But that doesn't feel like success. Doesn't feel like Tony Robbins or Zig Ziglar or Jim Rohn.
 
Tears feel weak. Out of control. Sad. Angry.
 
Tears feel hot as they fall. Face flushed. Eyes burning.
 
Tears never make it on the cover of Success magazine. They're never seen in the "you've got this" meme. Never applauded unless they are tears of joy after defeating the dragon.
 
Cry. Let your tears stream. It's OK. Perhaps tears are needed to flush the sorrow or frustration from your soul. To refresh your mind and bring clarity. To deliver a dose of reality against the dream.
 
Sob. Let it out. For a little while, let it go.
 
Then wipe those tears. You are stronger, not weaker, because you cried. 
 
Stand with resolve. Look forward in determination. Square your shoulders. Take the next step. Return to your journey.
 
The weakness is not falling to your knees with overwhelming failure, but in not getting back up.
 
And you always do. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 











The Scourge of Perfection
 
 
 
I hate perfectionism.
 
It crushes dreams. It restrains the spirit.
 
I've met thousands of people who never released the book or product or new idea because, "It's not good enough yet."
 
And so fear creeps in. Doubt. Insecurity. Judgment.
 
"What will people think?"
"What will people say?"
"Who am I to ______?"
 
Did you know that 99.9 percent of critics have never written a book like the one they are spouting off about? Never produced a movie like the one they just gave two out of five stars to? Never raised a good child, but they are willing to let you know what you're doing wrong?
 
The world is filled with "authorities" who have an amazing lack of evidence that they should be in that position.
 
Meanwhile, folks like you pull back the reins.
 
It's your obligation to let go.
 
Perfection doesn't exist. It's a myth. Because whatever you're doing cannot be perfect for everyone. There's always someone who will be sour or dissatisfied. However, the vast, vast, vast majority will be thankful for your imperfect work because it changed their lives.
 
You can make an impact with your imperfection, or you can drift into obscurity waiting for the perfect to arrive.
 











Live on Purpose
 
 
 
 
Had breakfast with my buddy Jon this morning. Sorta goal update and revival.
 
We got off on a tangent about "the meaning of life," living your purpose, and other such things.
 
Living your purpose can be difficult because you may spend your lifetime searching for YOUR purpose—if there's even such a thing to be found. However, you can live ON purpose right now. Today. This second.
 
Here were some thoughts that came up. Maybe they will strike a chord with you and be helpful to your achievement regardless of your goal.
 
Live on purpose.
 
Stop being an accident waiting to happen. I am a firm believer that you should be able to lay down at night and know you added value to the world.
 
This might seem silly, but take the tip I left the waitress this morning, for example. She's better off. I left a tip on purpose. A tip she would be grateful for. A tip that lets me rest easy tonight for having made another's life a little bit better.
 
You don't have to be Mother Teresa to live a meaningful life. You only have to be intentional with the lives around you.
 
Plan on purpose.
 
Scheduling your week is not just so the calendar is full. Have purpose associated with every activity and task.
 
"Walk for an hour" is much different than "Walk for an hour, burn 400 calories, and work toward becoming a machine so I can play for hours with my kids without collapsing."
 
One of those is a plan. One is a plan on purpose. I bet you can figure out which is which.
 
Start on purpose.
 
Let's say you have a job. Let's say you just sorta waltz in each morning like you did the day before. Let's say you don't find a lot of meaning in your job and you're frustrated about it.
 
Start on purpose. Assign yourself a task to perform right when you get to the office. Something you're going to do right out of the gate. This wipes out a mindless start that searches for something to do. It avoids, "What should I be working on?" Within five minutes of punching in, you can know that you're living on purpose because you started on purpose.
 
You literally can use this in every area of your life. Meals, exercise, work, play, relationships, goals, you name it. Start on purpose.
 
Stay on purpose
 
We all drift. We all start strong and then get soft. It's not enough to remind yourself of your goals each day. It's not enough to review your plan. You have to know the reasons that anchor your goals. (In my 5 Stones goal setting training, this is the Cornerstone.)
 
You stay on purpose when you engage an action with a specific reason.
 
Back to the earlier example. . . . Let's say I want to skip my workout. The reason (Cornerstone) for the workout is so I can get in shape and play for hours with my kids. If I don't face that on purpose then I will probably skip the workout and grab some donuts. However, if I think, "I am choosing donuts over my kids," that's totally different. That's shameful. Because the purpose of the workout is soooo much bigger.
 
If you plan on purpose, start on purpose, and stay on purpose, you will live on purpose.
 











Decide
 
 
 
Do you really want to change your world?
 
Do you want better friendships?
 
A better relationship with the Lord?
 
A greater heart for service?
 
A happier home life?
 
Decide.
 
Write it down. "Here's what I want to change. . . "
 
Wanting to change and wishing to change are two different things.
 
If you want things to change, but you're not willing to put in the work, then you're wishing.
 
If you decide you want change, but you're not willing to pay the price, then you're dreaming.
 
Deciding is not singular. It's not a one-time event. It's not a solitary thought.
 
Deciding includes thinking, planning, plodding and producing.
 
It's not linear. There will be distractions, diversions and derailments.
 
But if you've truly made the decision, you keep going. You keep pushing. You keep paying. You keep praying.
 
Just because you're making a "good" decision doesn't mean it will be simple or easy. Just because you want to grow as person and impact your world doesn't mean you won't get damaged along the way.
 
For some reason we tend to think that setting good goals will somehow protect us from the battle. Since we're doing the "right thing," then everything should just fall into place.
 
(Here's some ammonia to sniff. Breathe deep. Wake up!)
 
In fact, often the opposite is true.
 
Let's say you decide to be a better mom. You read books, attend seminars, follow advice and become a living sacrifice. . . . Then what happens? Everyone takes you for granted! :)
 
Our decision for change cannot be based on our reception or acceptance. We serve because it's who we are and what we give, not what we get.
 
We move with precise intention. Focusing on doing the right things at the right times. But it begins with an intentional decision.
 
Back to the original question. . . .
 
Do you REALLY want to change your world?
 
It may get expensive. It will definitely be challenging, even heartbreaking at times. It will also be filled with laughter, joy and excitement.
 
It will simply be life.
 
 
 











Lavandería
 
 
 
Across the street from my rental in Mexico is a lavandería.
 
They. . . .
 
1. Weigh your clothes and charge per pound.
 
2. Wash and dry your clothes.
 
3. Put your clothes in a plastic bag.
 
Simple.
 
Because it's hot and our team is working in the morning, spending time at an orphanage in the afternoon, and eating out at night, it's easy to go through three set of clothes a day.
 
I took in four days' worth to the laundry.
 
Grand total: $2.30. I was not upset.
 
Here's the operation. . . .
 
Weigh. Wash. Dry.
 
But what do WE do?
 
If we decide to work out, we buy the best equipment. Best workout clothes. We might research the best shoes for days.
 
If we decide to work from home we buy a nice desk. Upgrade our laptop. Print enough business cards for the next three centuries.
 
We confuse preparing for action with results. We feel that getting ultimately prepared always has to come first.
 
Hey, you'll lose more weight walking in loafers than researching shoes.
 
You'll make more money with your sad website than a perfect website you never get up.
 
I love my little lavandería.
 
No fancy equipment. Machines that do the job. People who love to serve. Sometimes that's all you need.
 
 
 











Do You Know What Time It Is?
 
 
 
6:04 a.m.
 
So far today I've:
 
Recorded a podcast, edited, uploaded, posted.
Created a new lead page.
Answered coaching questions.
Created mp4 downloads of Core4.
Shared an article with Club Level on Facebook.
Listened to a chapter of 10X by Grant Cardone.
Worked out.
 
6:06 a.m.
 
Although I write and teach about productivity and goal setting, the fact remains that without discipline, none of the above would happen.
 
Most people in the "working world" are still asleep. They "don't have time" to start or work on an outside business. They don't have time to work on their body. They don't have time to _________. Just fill in the blank.
 
If you get up a little bit early and knock out some tasks, you are lapping the field.
 
If you work while others sleep, you get so far ahead they can't catch you.
 
However, you can have the best plan, the best list to accomplish, and even the best intentions, but without self-discipline, none of those will happen if they are not obligations.
 
6:09 a.m.
 
Productivity does not exist without discipline.
 
Laying in bed wondering if you should get up and work or workout or whatever is a waste of time. It's undisciplined and accomplishes nothing.
 
Look at your clock. Do you know what time it is?
 
It's . . . NOW.
 
Whatever you should be doing, do it NOW.
 











The War of Self-Discipline
 
We all have things we should be doing that we don't. We all make promises to ourselves that we don't keep.
 
Let's say you promise to run every morning. The night before, you set out your gear, plan the route, drink a big glass of water. You feel ready!
 
Next morning, the motivation has vanished. You sit on the edge of your bed. Your shoes are starring up at you. Are they smirking? Are they actually saying, "I told you so!"?
 
Yet, even with sneaker laughter, you sit. Thinking. Weighing the pros and cons. Imagining how tired you will get. Concentrating on how hard it will be. Finally, you decide, "I just don't want to."
 
So you don't. You hit the shower. Grab a donut. Head to work. Promise yourself that tomorrow will be different. (Liar.)
 
Why do some people make it and others don't? Why do some achieve their goals and others give up soon after they start? Why do some stare their shoes into submission, lace them up, then pound the pavement, while others follow the path above?
 
Self-discipline.
 
Here's the definition: 
 
"Self-discipline is the ability to do what you should do, when you should do it, whether you feel like it or not." —Elbert Hubbard
 
It makes you hit the ground running.
It forces you to finish the task.
It compels you to chase the dream.
It calls for you to keep going when you don't feel like it.
It questions your lazy and your quit.
It drags you into completion.
It creates guilt when you stop too soon.
It interrogates your motives and your why.
It takes the reins and cracks the whip.
It punches the acceleration on achievement.
And most of humanity lacks it.
 
They sit in front of the TV eating cheese curls waiting for their world to change. Or they buy the next distraction. Or they sip on good intentions as they plan their next conquest.
 
People (you and me) don't fail for lack of a plan. We have plans, formulas, roadmaps, blueprints—you name it. Anything you want to achieve, a plan already exists. That's not the issue. The issue is persistent, consistent action. Period.
 
 











Hungry
 
 
 
"The appetite of laborers works for them; their hunger drives them on." —Prov 16:26
 
What are you hungry for?
 
What are you working toward?
 
What ultimate result do you want?
 
Hunger in the proverb does not mean slight craving or in want of a snack. It's desperate.
 
Right now I would really like a donut. I'd like some bacon. Maybe a thick burger. But . . . I don't HAVE to have any of those. I'll survive if I don't get any of those.
 
Which means . . . they are optional.
 
As long as our goals, desires, and dreams are optional, we won't sacrifice. We won't remain committed. We won't get up earlier and stay up later.
 
We will do just enough to ease our stomach-growling dreams, but we won't give it everything we've got.
 
Weigh your dreams/goals. . . 
 
Like - would be nice to have, but you're totally OK without them.
 
Want - you would be disappointed if they didn't happen.
 
Need - if you do not accomplish them, you will feel like a failure.
 
Must - they are not optional or negotiable. You will do ANYTHING to accomplish them.
 
That little exercise will help you take an honest look at your desires. I'm doing the same. And it's not easy. :)
 
 
 











"I'll Work on That"
 
 
 
When someone says, "You know, you really need to change. . . "
 
Too often we get defensive.
 
Too often we get hurt.
 
Too often we point to a flaw in the person telling us what to change.
 
Too often we justify.
 
Instead, like my buddy did in the last post, we could just say, "I'll work on that."
 
And then do it.
 
Work on it.
 
Example: "I'm SICK of the way our house is a wreck because you will never pick anything up!"
 
The proper response is NOT. . . .
 
"Well, you don't seem to be doing too much with yourself, so I certainly didn't think the house mattered."
 
Repeat. That is NOT the way to respond.
 
Instead, say, "I'll work on that."
 
Then do it.
 
No committee is necessary. You don't need to read a book on how to pick up after yourself. You don't need a seminar or course.
 
Most of the changes we need to make are simple. Just a tiny bit of thought. A little awareness.
 
"Huh, there's underwear hanging on that lamp. Seems like something should be done. Ahhhhhhh . . . I could take that to the laundry!"
 
See? Simple.
 
And MOST of life is like that. MOST of the changes we need to make are like that. Simple.
 
If pride doesn't get us first.
 
If we can accept that helping others doesn't make us look weak.
 
That doing something, even if it's status quo, doesn't make us a sellout.
 
Let's listen to what those around us say we need to change. Let's change. At the very, very least let's say. . . .
 
"I'll work on that."
 











Everybody Wants Their Life to Count
 
 
 
Do you believe that?
 
Do you believe that deep down, everyone wants their life to count? They want to get to the end of life and look back and see the difference they made?
 
Well, it's not actually true. There are plenty of people who live only for the selfish moment.
 
Why would I even tell you this?
 
Because . . . as you are making a difference . . . as you attempt to make an impact . . . as you focus on making your life count . . . there will be those who just don't care.
 
We tend to think in terms of fairness. If we are kind to someone, they will be kind. If we give our best effort, it will be rewarded. If we pour out the love, then we will be loved—or at least treated with a bit of respect.
 
But it doesn't always happen that way, does it?
 
You've done your best, tried your hardest and at times received complete rejection, right? Not every time, but occasionally, right?
 
That's because not everyone cares about their life counting and they don't care about yours, either.
 
Don't let that discourage you. Don't let it make you bitter as it does so many. Instead, accept it and continue to serve.
 
Serving and sharing should never be measured by the return. It's measured only by the selflessness by which we give. And then, regardless of others, your life will count.
 
 











Initiative Is War!
 
 
 
"Have a New Kid by Friday."
 
"Reach All Your Goals in 30 Days."
 
"Click 3 Buttons and Get Rich Online."
 
Fast. Easy. Impossible results.
 
That's all we want. And delivered within the next hour, thank you.
 
Some change actually is easy. But most is war. It's a battle. And there are injuries.
 
How often do you hear people say. . . 
 
"Wow, I never knew raising children was so easy. No conflict or drama. It's so hard to believe they do every single thing I say without sass."
 
"Losing those 33 pounds was a cinch. I love tuna from a can. Donuts and pizza? Don't make me throw up. Just give me a handful of almonds any day."
 
"I am so glad I started my own business. It's so much easier than an eight-to-five job. I hate getting a dependable paycheck with little risk on my part. It's so much better to wonder if I am going to get a check at all each month."
 
Regardless of the goal, there will be blood.
 
It will be harder than you imagined. You will want to give up. Many times you will.
 
Steven Pressfield calls this Resistance.
 
"Resistance cannot be seen, heard, touched, or smelled. But it can be felt... Resistance is a repelling force. It's negative. Its aim is to shove us away, distract us, prevent us from doing our work."
 
Our lives want, even demand, comfort and immediate gratification.
 
The sooner we accept that hard work and war are required for impact and achievement, the sooner we'll hop out of the hammock and take up our swords.
 











Explore. Dream. Discover.
 
 
 
"Twenty years from now you will be more disappointed by the things that you didn't do than by the ones you did do. So throw off the bowlines. Sail away from the safe harbor. Catch the trade winds in your sails. Explore. Dream. Discover."
―Mark Twain
 
We waste far too much time thinking. Trying to predict the outcome, then remaining exactly where we are.
 
People worry. Contemplate. They think about the reaction of others. What the others will say. How they will be treated by the others.
 
That all seems exhausting.
 
Hop in the boat.
 
Toss off the rope.
 
Sail.
 
The biggest regrets come from staying tied to the dock.
 
 











Don't Join
 
 
 
Don't join the crowd.
Don't join the pity party.
Don't join the misery.
Don't join the revolt.
Don't join the naysayers.
Don't join the negative.
Don't join the brigade.
Don't join the blind followers.
Don't join the cult.
Don't join the victims.
Don't join the abusers.
Don't join the dreamless.
Don't join the freebie seekers.
Don't join the clique.
Don't join the clowns.
Don't join the mess.
Don't join the hate.
 
 
 











Potential
 
Potential . . . one of the most lethal words in the success dictionary.
 
"Why don't you live up to your potential?"
 
"You've got so much potential."
 
"Don't limit yourself. Reach your potential. You could do so much more than you're doing now."
 
First of all, those phrases make it sound like, "Hey, you're worthless now, but you could be valuable!"
 
Second, even though words of "potential" sound complimentary, they're not always. They can make a person feel like they are not living up to some unseen standard. And because it's based in potential, it's almost impossible to nail down when a person arrives at the destination.
 
Which is actually impossible anyway.
 
Potential is fluid.
 
For example, take a person who can't read. What's his or her potential in today's world?
 
Well, you really can't answer that, can you? We haven't talked about intelligence, athletic ability, skill set, etc.
 
Most would say his potential to become a successful CEO would be severely hampered if not impossible. His potential in this area is low.
 
But what happens if he learns to read? What happens to his chances then?
 
His potential radically shifts because of a new skill.
 
I'm not saying we shouldn't shoot for the stars or dream big. But let's take some of the pressure off and stop encouraging people with their potential.
 
If we see something inside someone and we believe she could achieve great things if she applied herself, then let's HELP her instead of telling her what she could be. The vast majority cannot see in themselves what others see in them. Let's help them see by helping them take the steps.
 
 
 











Extra
 
 
 
"There are no traffic jams on the extra mile." 
—Zig Ziglar.
 
Xtra.
 
Current action X _______ = Xtra
 
It's more than a little bit more.
 
It's a multiple. At times, eXponential.
 
The xtra mile is double, not just a few more feet.
 
Here's the way Jesus put it:
 
"If anyone slaps you on one cheek, offer him the other cheek, too. If someone takes your coat, do not stop him from taking your shirt." —Luke 6:29
 
Double the slap.
 
Double the loss.
 
Why is xtra so hard? Because it's about humility. It means we forget about ourselves and give the best to others, even if they are not in our circle. Even worse, even if they are rude and oppressive.
 
We're probably OK with xtra to people we love, but people we don't and who don't love us? Well, that's just odd, right?
 
Nope.
 
That's the true spirit of xtra.
 
 











So What?
 
 
 
A simple, brutal, two-word question.
 
"So what?"
 
Asking that question helps us measure our actions and conversations. It can also help us challenge people around us.
 
And I'm not talking about grand gestures. We should ask even in the mundane.
 
Ask while filling the tank in your auto, "So what?"
 
Now I can pick up John and make sure he makes it to soccer on time.
 
Now I can make it all the way to Kelly's without having to stop again after it gets dark.
 
Now I won't have to fill up on the way home when traffic is thick.
 
Ask when you're in a restaurant, "So what?"
 
Service is slow, so what? Maybe he's having a rotten day.
 
The meal is fantastic. So what? I need to be thankful.
 
Tipping is usually 20 percent; so what, I'll do 30 percent and maybe life gets a little easier for the server.
 
When someone starts to share the juicy gossip, ask, "So what?" Literally.
 
Did you hear what happened to Fred? "So what? 
 
"Are you helping or just spreading?"
 
Did you hear the one about the priest and the nun? "So what? Is this a dirty joke or actually funny?"
 
You won't believe how I got stabbed in the back! "So what? Are you just gonna bleed, or get some stitches?"
 
That last set seemed especially rough, right? Maybe so. The point is that we need to be measuring life better and encouraging others to do the same.
 
We need to see that the mundane actually counts for something.
 
We need to know that something as simple as leaving an extra 10 percent makes a difference.
 
We need to realize we can stop hurtful or inappropriate or victim conversations.
 
So what? Let us weigh the impact, no matter how heavy or light.
 
 
 











Thanks, Dave
 
 
 
David got kicked out of my high school in eleventh grade.
 
Drugs, witchcraft, and 13 federal accounts of misuse of government properties. (He would call in bomb threats and such. You know, typical stuff.)
 
He sat next to me in Mr. Greene's class. On the average day I would look over and he would lift a sheet of paper.
 
A drawing.
 
Usually one of our classmates being sacrificed on an altar. Rough stuff. Scary stuff.
 
In 1990 he was committed to a facility for the criminally insane.
 
Today David weighs "453.2. Down from 466.8!" He's on four anti-psychotics, and another 14 medications for various issues.
 
Most Sundays I pick him up for church, and last week we invited him to join us at my mom's for lunch.
 
David is super funny and has some great stories. . . .
 
"I may be the only one ever kicked out of jail for talking too much."
 
"The last church I went to was so boring, I had to step out and smoke some crack just to stay awake."
 
"I've got 100 days clean. I thought I had 18 months, then they told me marijuana was a no-no and I had to start over."
 
At one point we asked about his Narcotics Anonymous meeting and how it was going.
 
David smiled.
 
Closed his eyes.
 
And without missing a word, he recited all twelve steps.
 
He opened his eyes. "Sorry I had to close my eyes, but I have those written on the back of my eyelids!" Then he let out a laugh as big as he is.
 
David's come a long way. Still struggles, but has come a long way. He's doing good.
 
So. . . .
 
#1 What's Your Excuse?
 
What's your excuse for not making it? For not working hard? For not pushing? For not knocking it out?
 
Dave has to fight to stay clean every day. It's a battle. But he's working.
 
#2 Don't Go It Alone
 
Sometimes he calls me at 2 a.m. and I am not his sponsor. But he needs to know he is not alone. David will call me to take him to a doctor's appointment (which is a really funny trip.) But he calls me and others because he has friends.
 
You shouldn't go it alone either. That's why I love my Success Is NOT an Accident team, because it's always better to progress together.
 
#3 Love Your People
 
When it's time to drop David back at his house, he always says the same thing. "I love you little dude. Thanks!"
 
I never get tired of hearing that. In fact, I don't know anyone who gets tired of hearing, "I love you."
 
So let your family, friends, co-workers, employees, clients, customers, students, subscribers know you care.
 
Here's to you, David. Thank you for being a great friend and for showing us how to live with more impact.
 
Love you, big dude!
 
 
 











Become a Superhero - Part 1
 
 
 
1978.
 
I was 10 years old.
 
Lou Ferrigno played The Incredible Hulk on television. Every shirt-ripping episode kept me glued to the set.
 
Gamma radiation caused Dr. Bruce Banner to transform into the Hulk. I wanted some. I wanted that power (but without the green skin, if I got to choose).
 
Until then I cut off my jeans and wore a tight, long-sleeved shirt with snap buttons. If someone said something to me I didn't like, I would fly into a fake rage. Twist and contort. Finally, the buttons would snap and my raging muscles would burst through.
 
(Of course, I only weighed about 68 pounds soaking wet and my chest was nothing more than a sternum.)
 
Every Wednesday, my grandmother, Mamma B, would go to the beauty shop. When I was at her house I went along. She would go in and most of the time I stood out front of the shop's window. It was like a mirror.
 
That's where I practiced my transformation. Practiced my Hulk grimace. Practiced my fierce button unsnapping.
 
What I didn't know was the shop's window was two-way. All those blue-haired women watched every disturbing move. Rumor has it that they were not threatened, but were laughing!
 
That's just a sliver of my time as the Hulk. I have also been the Flash, Green Lantern, Robin Hood, Batman, the Atom, Spiderman and my favorite of all time . . . SUPERMAN!
 
"Paul, quit messing around. Superheroes don't really exist."
 
Are you insane?
 
(That's rhetorical. If you really are insane and it's documented, I reeeeaalllllyyyy apologize.)
 
Are you insane? Superheroes do exist!
 
Martin Luther King, Jr.
Billy Graham
Mother Teresa
Gandhi
Katie Davis
 
 
That's just to name a few of the most well known.
 
But you don't have to be famous to be a super hero.
 
How about. . . 
 
A girl I know who rarely talks because she's shy, but writes the most incredible notes of encouragement.
 
The man who takes food to the homeless guy on the corner of 5th and 8th.
 
The mom who already has four kids, but decides to adopt more.
 
You know, REAL superhero stuff.
 
We can ALL be superheroes. We can rescue.
 
So this week we'll focus on being superheroes. We'll work on our super vision, super hearing and super strength.
 
Your first assignment is this. Don't worry about your powers just yet. Become aware of how you see others use their powers.
 
Pay attention today.
 
Look and listen. How do you see people going to the rescue? What do you witness? What do you hear?
 
Look and listen for the above-average response. Those who step in when others don't. Those who take action when others don't. Those who help people that others don't.
 
Write down what you see. Write down how the person was a superhero. That might seem like an odd assignment. But until we are able to see others being super, it's hard to believe we can be.
 
 
 











Become a Superhero - Part 2
 
 
 
"Watch it! I've got eyes in the back of my head." 
—Mom.
 
Somehow moms have super vision. They see everything, especially the stuff we never wanted them to see. Of course, moms catch the good stuff too, which is super cool. :)
 
Mom knew being a superhero was/is important to me.
 
She recognized my super powers.
 
She wrote them down so I would always know what they are in moments of doubt.
 
Just as moms "see," we need to as well.
 
Your assignment is to practice using your super vision. In the next 24 hours you need to look for. . . 
 
People in distress. Those who don't have enough food, or clothing, or income.
 
People in duress. Those who seem to be having a bad day. Frown wearers. Criers.
 
No. It's not enough to just see them. Help in some way. Provide food, clothing, money. Ask how you can help. Share a smile, or even a song.
 
Is it risky?
 
YES!
 
Not all superheroes are appreciated, but that doesn't change the fact that we need to attempt a rescue!
 
I don't know about you, but I'm super guilty of keeping my face in my phone and not being super interactive. Let's start looking and really paying attention to the people around us.
 
We'll work on our super hearing tomorrow.
 
 











Become a Superhero - Part 3
 
 
 
Selective hearing.
 
Most men have been accused of that.
 
No. It does not matter that we can repeat the last sentence of a long-winded tear word for word.
 
We get zero credit when we add tone and inflection to the last sentence. (Sometimes this makes providing evidence of our attention even worse for some reason.)
 
Nope. Instead of praise—"Awwwww, you were listening."—we get, "You heard me, but you didn't listen."
 
Fellas, just give up on, "Well, if I wasn't listening, how in the world was I able to repeat what you said?" That. Just. Does. Not. Work.
 
Now then . . . wimmins . . . y'all aren't all that great at listening either. We know your tricks. You act like you're listening and your response is, "Great! That reminds me of something Trish said. . . ." And off you go covering your own material.
 
Both genders need to improve our listening. Actually, super hearing.
 
We've all learned the tips of "active listening," but we're talking about super hearing. That means we hear the cry for help and make a move.
 
(Please don't confuse this with eavesdropping. "I couldn't help but overhear you and I wanted to come over and prove I'm a know-it-all by adding to your conversation.")
 
Developing Super Hearing
 
01 : Listen Out of Your Head.
 
It's super easy to keep all dialogue internal. Head conversations block the outside world and shut out noise. You can literally be walking the hectic streets of New York, be thinking to yourself and not hear the horn of that taxi ready to make you roadkill.
 
Take a mental break and just listen. Don't think. Just listen.
 
02 : Shut Up
 
Most of us talk waaaaaaaaaaay too much. I know I do. Maybe we're uncomfortable with silence. Maybe we just wanna share. Maybe we're quick-witted. Maybe we're hyperactive and can't find the switch.
 
Regardless. Shut up. Zip those lips.
 
Listen.
 
We've been missing a lot. :)
 
03 : Ask Questions Instead of Making Statements.
 
Become interested in others. Their story. Their pain. Their victories. Ask questions and follow the path and even the tangents.
 
One of the easiest ways is to take the last sentence a person says and make it a question.
 
"When so and so said that it really hurt my feelings."
 
"It hurt your feelings?"
 
Then just listen.
 
04 : Have an Ear Out for Stuff that Breaks and Cries and Such
 
Superman could always hear Lois Lane's cries for help. Moms always seem to be able to hear the crying baby in the night.
 
Why? They have an ear for danger and a heart of protection.
 
We may not be there yet. We may be way more tuned in to our own cries and needs than those of others. So how do we train this sort of hearing?
 
One of the best ways is to read and practice 7 by Jen Hatmaker. The chapters on food and clothing will especially help you connect with those who have needs.
 
Assignment:
 
LISTEN
 
Really listen. Get out of you head and listen to the hearts and needs of others.
 
Write down what you heard and how you went to the rescue (or not).
 
 
 
 











Resistance - Part 1
 
 
Where I am + ____________ = Where I want to be.
 
That's the way we process. Very succinct. Linear. Point A to Point B. Straight line and no interruptions.
 
When you set a goal, your mind sees the beginning, a successful end, and smooth going in between.
 
However, that ________________ holds smooth sailing AND crashing waves.
 
That ________________ is less like ____________ and more like ___^^@# %_____ #&@^%#$___<<<__. 
 
You want easy and consistent. 
You get jagged and unpredictable. 
 
That's the path to achievement. The true path. 
 
There are waves, unexpected storms, sea monsters and mechanical breakdowns that slow you down and, of course, times of great speed and smooth sailing. 
 
Out of everything you face, one thing will capsize you more than anything else. 
 
Steven Pressfield in The War of Art coins it the Resistance. 
 
You see, everything mentioned above becomes fairly easy to recognize and handle, even if it takes resolve, muscle and forceful action. 
 
But Resistance—it's the thing that keeps you from ever getting in the boat. It keeps you on shore. It convinces you that safe comfort is far better than adventure and risk. 
 
Resistance whispers, "Tomorrow." 
 
Resistance convinces you that the dream was more like a joke. 
 
Resistance provides the reason why you shouldn't, at least for now, take the helm when you could lay on the beach with a nice cocoa butter sheen. 
 
Resistance keeps the boat in the harbor, the canvas blank, the book pageless, the gym unused, the running shoes in the closet, the resume on the hard drive, and the dream in the heart and out of the hands. 
 
The goal of Resistance is to prevent achievement in any form. To inhibit a single step from being taken. 
 
Sometimes Resistance comes with power. It's a battle. Sometimes it comes with a subtle whisper. It's a warm bath. The latter is what I want to share with you in the next, "The Greatest Deceit." 
 
Using a single word you will discover the easiest way Resistance enters your heart and defeats you. 
 
It's more than a little embarrassing. 
 
 
 











Resistance - Part 2
 
 
 
I intended to go to the gym this morning.
 
But. . . 
 
I worked out a couple of days ago and I am pretty sure I felt some residual soreness. Some lingering lactic acid. No, it has nothing to do with aging and the lessening of my superhuman recovery.
 
I intended to write a book. Actually books. I've got about six folders on my system. Most of those have subfolders with chapter titles.
 
Odd. Inspiration just won't strike. Ben Franklin had better luck with a kite and a key than I am having finishing the next bestseller.
 
I intended to. . . 
 
Annnnnnnnnnnd there you have it.
 
The great deceit. Resistance's greatest power. One word: Intention.
 
When we have "intentions," we fool our minds into believing we are about to do good. We are close to taking action. We are mentally moving toward that step.
 
Then we . . . relax. We breathe. We exhale. Because we know we're going to . . . we intend to . . . someday.
 
Resistance laughs. Rubs his hands together. Salivates. Another dreamer lies on the cold steel table of intention.
 
Resistance isn't bothered by dreams. It doesn't sweat or get worried with scheming and planning and blueprints.
 
Resistance couldn't care less about the Mac Air you bought to blog on. It's not bothered by the new running outfit, or all the diet books you bought. It's not quaking in fear about the organic eggs you just purchased.
 
Resistance doesn't scatter just because you shake you fist in the air and scream, "This time is going to be different!"
 
Why?
 
Because the Mac, the outfit, the books, the eggs, the primal scream . . . they are all just intentions.
 
 
 











Resistance - Part 3
 
 
 
"Take that, Resistance!" I yelled as I completed a three-mile run on January 2.
 
The neighbors stared at me after my loud proclamation. A dog howled in agreement a few blocks away.
 
But Resistance chuckled, "That was a nice little run. You should be proud. You deserve a treat."
 
I sensed sarcasm in the voice of Resistance. Hadn't I accomplished the very thing he fears the most? Hadn't I taken action?
 
Hmmmmmmm.
 
It turns out that Resistance doesn't fear action too much. Because one run does not a runner make. Nor does it generate washboard abs. Nor does it make bacon taste worse. Nor does it guarantee that I would be out pounding the street January 3 (which I wasn't, so don't say you saw me).
 
Nope. Resistance doesn't fear movement. It fears. . . .
 
Momentum.
 
Resistance quakes to the core when you show up day after day after day after day and do the thing. Whatever the thing is.
 
I participated in a 500 words a day challenge. Every day I wrote 500 words. It didn't matter if inspiration struck or not, I had an assignment. I had a duty. I had an obligation.
 
Day 1: Resistance didn't care. He knew I'd done things for a day before.
 
Day 2: He worked hard to get in my head with a severe case of creative freedom—meaning I was free from creativity and could not think of one interesting thing to write. But I wrote anyway. It was dull. But it was done.
 
Day 3: I sat in front of the computer again and Resistance started to worry. Three days in a row? Something is up.
 
And from there on out Resistance didn't have as much power. Momentum is tough to stop. It can steamroll. It can power bowl.
 
Now it's Day 15 and Resistance attacks other parts of my life. Right now there's too much forward progress with 500 Words for him to keep trying. (Resistance hates rejection too!)
 
That's not to say he's given up. He hasn't. It's just easier for Resistance to work through a bacon biscuit right now. Easier for him to pound my diet. So don't think for a minute that a little momentum is going to whip Resistance; it takes a whole lot more!
 
 
 











Resistance - Part 4
 
 
 
Have you seen the movie A Christmas Story? It's the story of Ralphie Parker's quest to get an official Red Rider BB gun for Christmas.
 
In the movie, there's a bully, Scut Farkus. Every day Scut and his henchman, Grover Dill, terrorize Ralphie, Flick and Schwartz. Farkus scares them, punches them, taunts them, and even makes them shout "uncle" and stuff.
 
At one point Ralphie has a super bad day. The conspiracy to prevent him from getting an official Red Rider BB gun hits a peak.
 
On his way home from school he runs into Farkus. . . 
 
"Hey, four-eyes! How'd you like your snowball sandwich?" shouts Farkus. Wham! Snowball to the head! "Maybe you'd like another one!"
 
Ralphie stands there stunned and defeated as he tries to clear his glasses of snow.
 
Grover threatens, "Listen, jerk. When I tell you to come, you better come!"
 
Ralphie tears up.
 
"What? Are you going to cry now?" Farkus taunts. "Come on, cry baby, cry for me. Come on. Cry!"
 
Deep in the recesses of Ralphie's brain . . . a tiny red-hot little flame begins to grow. Something happens. A fuse blows and he goes out of his skull.
 
Ralphie jumps Farkus. The bullied beats up the bully. He pounds him. He doesn't stop until his brother runs home, gets Mom, and she pulls Ralphie off.
 
It's a glorious scene!
 
Now then. . . 
 
Me and you. We're Ralphie.
 
Resistance is Farkus.
 
Every day, Resistance bullies us. Punches us. Teases us. Takes our lunch money. Makes us cry "uncle."
 
Every time you think. . . 
 
"I don't feel like doing ________ right now."
 
"I'm not seeing much progress anyway; this cheat won't hurt."
 
"I'm super tired. If I get started now it won't be my best, so I might as well wait."
 
"Why did I even start this? It was stupid. I'm embarrassed about how pumped up I got. I even told everyone I'd show them I was serious."
 
Every time you have conversations like that with yourself, you're being bullied by Resistance. That's his version of "uncle."
 
Well, it's time to beat up the bully. It's time to do a little tail-kicking.
 
 
 











Results
 
 
 
Goals reflect the desired destination.
 
Results reveal the actual destination.
 
You set a goal to lose 10 pounds. It's an ideal. A thought. A wish. A desire.
 
You lose 8. Result revealed. Accomplishment attained.
 
Was the goal too big? The actions too small or too few?
 
You lose 12. Result revealed. Accomplishment attained.
 
Was the goal too small? Did the actions produce more than guessed?
 
For the most part, a goal is just a guess. It's where you HOPE to be at the end of a precise period. You have to do the work to get there. Unless you have been around or near the destination before, it's going to be tough to be accurate.
 
But once you have a RESULT, every time you repeat a similar goal from this point forward you have data to work with. You have a plan you used and the payoff from the execution.
 
You should be able to move from desired destination to determined destination right from the get-go!
 
This morning my workout partner, Matt, and I did bench presses. I've done them before so I knew that if my goal was to bench 200 pounds, it's doable. If the goal was to bench 400, it's stupid.
 
But what if I had never benched before? What if I saw someone doing 200 and it was EASY for her? What might go through my mind?
 
"That girl did it! I bet I can do it too!"
 
If this was my first workout, the result would lie somewhere between a really bad moment and the emergency room.
 
But once I got under some weight. Once I tested it. Once I had some data. THEN I could make a wise decision about future goals and plans—not based on a guess, but based on execution.
 
Goals reflect the desired destination.
 
Results reveal the actual destination.
 
 











Words
 
 
 
 
Words create, command, and convince.
 
Simple words such as, "Would you like a cup of coffee?" cause an effect. Seconds before, coffee wasn't on the agenda. Suddenly there's the smell. The taste. The warmth. All from words. And a simple "Yes" will produce a cup just like you like it from the hand of another.
 
Powerful words such as "I have a dream!" stir a nation. Inspire. Challenge. Convict. Connect.
 
Words possess the greatest power ever known or ever to be invented.
 
Words become flesh.
 











Have a Go
 
 
 
"Sure, I'll have a go."
 
Five words.
 
Spoken at 1:03 a.m. from London.
 
Answering the question. . . 
 
"Would you host the Oscars?"
 
Asked by Steven Spielberg to Hugh Jackman.
 
Steven woke Hugh with that call and that question. Hugh went on to be one of the best hosts in the history of the Oscar Awards. His ability to sing, dance, tell stories and handle any impromptu situation made the night a success. He's a massive talent.
 
A couple of years ago I was in the audience for Hugh Jackman: Back on Broadway. The show was fantastic and Hugh told the above story.
 
"Have a go," he said, "is an Aussie expression. Basically, 'go for it.' Because it's not the failures we regret in life, it's the things we never attempt."
 
Life makes those choices difficult.
 
On the one hand we're filled with hopes and dreams. On the other hand we're a little scared to make the move. We're afraid to "have a go."
 
There are hundreds of tiny reasons why we hold back, and maybe even a few large ones.
 
What's tugging at you right now? What have you mentally planned to do or accomplish, but the brakes are on? Or perhaps there's a dream from the past that you released and refused to think about any longer.
 
What have you wanted to do or accomplish, but haven't made a move on, yet?
 
What would it take to make it real? What's your plan?
 
What's the very first step you need to take?
 
What's the date of that first step?
 
Have a go.
 
 
 











Do the Hustle
 
 
 
Originally the Hustle was a dance in the 1970s. (Whew! Just a sliver before my time.)
 
Then hustle meant to make money doing something a little bit shady.
 
I guess hustle can still mean both of those, but today it's more focused on getting after it. Crushing it.
 
Grant Cardone talks about working your Hustle Muscle.
 
Jon Acuff is doing a 30 Days of Hustle Challenge right now.
 
Jeff Goins helps others hustle by writing 500 words a day.
 
Whatever it is you want, it's not just gonna happen.
 
Hustle is more than going through the steps—it's adding intensity and intention to the steps.
 
E.g., I'm part of a 500 words a day challenge.
 
I can:
 
1 Write 500 words a day and complete the goal.
 
2. Write 500 words of hustle and achieve results.
 
Five hundred words feels nice and neat. And honestly, if anyone who hasn't been writing suddenly writes 500 words a day, then applause. That's a great accomplishment. Hurrrrrray!
 
But.
 
That doesn't mean the words will impact.
 
Hustle writing, on the other hand, produces results in yourself and others.
 
Intentional - you set out with a purpose for your writing. You have a reason to write and that reason is more than writing by itself.
 
Intensity - you become more aware of how words make people feel, not just how you make people think. You choose words that will produce an emotional response or a reaction when needed.
 
Weave hustle into your life.
 
Become intentional and intense in your workouts. You will burn more calories and build more muscle in the same amount of time.
 
Become intentional and intense in your relationships. You will burn more candles and build deeper connections.
 
Become intentional and intense in your business. You will burn less cash and build more thrilled customers.
 
What are you planning to do today?
 
Add hustle.
 
I can make _________ more intentional by ______________________.
 
I can make ___________ more intense by _______________________.
 
Uh-oh. . . 
 
Some folks hear this and get extreme.
 
"I'm gonna crush it everywhere. I am going to hustle every waking minute!"
 
Be careful—that's deranged.
 
It's not possible.
 
It will lead to burnout, adrenaline crashes and severe disappointment.
 
Hustle where you can. When you can. That's enough.
 
Hustle somewhere, though! We've got enough zombies out there!
 
 
 











The Danger of Day 7
 
 
 
It's Day 7!
 
We're still so close to January 1 (as of this writing), we can still touch it. Maybe even taste it if you had enough bacon.
 
But before long, we'll cross the threshold. The New Year will simply become the next year. Yes, it's even dangerous here on Day 7 because by now we've reentered "reality." And if we don't stay focused. . . .
 
We'll drift.
 
We'll settle in.
 
The fresh will become stale, or worse, ripen and rot if we are not careful. Very careful.
 
The pattern is typical.
 
"I can't wait for the New Year!"
 
"This year will be different!"
 
"I'm ready!"
 
"Awwwwww, just this once. It won't derail me."
 
"What year is it?"
 
Obviously, I've lived that at times, and I am willing to bet you have too.
 
I've also witnessed it thousands of times.
 
You see, back in the '90s—(Yes, 1990s, give me a break.) (OK, OK, the EARLY '90s.)—I owned a fitness center. We actually opened on January 1, and the place was packed. Jammed. Rocking!
 
My business partner, Mike, and I were pumped (and not just from lifting weights)! It was amazing how many members joined. We knew we had made the right business decision to unlock those doors.
 
Then February came.
 
Hmmmmmm. . . 
 
Lots of folks missing.
 
Lots of resolutions broken.
 
Lots of chips being eaten.
 
And here's the thing: not a single one of those folks had planned to quit. On January 1, you would not have been able to convince them they would be watching reruns of Seinfeld with chip crumbs wedged in their creases.
 
Promise. You couldn't have.
 
On the other hand, there were two groups of people that remained.
 
#1 The Driven
 
#2 The Determined
 
The driven just have it in them. They show up. They crush it. They go home. They don't feel they need anyone or anything. They're preconditioned.
 
Listen, those folks are rare. Super rare.
 
And if we're honest, we admire them and are bugged by them at the same time. 
 
The determined, on the other hand, usually had a training partner. They knew the chances of showing up time and time again alone were just too risky.
 
(Confession: Even when I was competing in bodybuilding and power lifting, I needed a partner to keep me going. It was just too easy to not show up.)
 
However, BOTH groups did far better when they worked with a personal trainer.
 
The answer is obvious, right?
 
It's one thing to work out and go through the motions. It's another when someone is taking you through the motions who knows how the body works and knows you well enough to push you to the point you need.
 
You need a trainer. A coach. A mentor.
 











Do It Anyway
 
 
 
 
And let me make this clear. . . 
 
I. Do. Not. Like. Writing.
 
I like talking. It's easier for me.
 
Funner.
 
(See? When I said "funner," autocorrect put a red line under it to condemn me. It's not a word. But it is waaaaaaaaaaay better than "more fun"—which is technically accurate. Which is another reason I don't like to write.)
 
Sooooo. . . 
 
Why am I doing this?
 
#1 It's forcing me to create structure.
 
I usually do what I want, when I want. This is forcing me to break out of my pattern.
 
#2 It's forcing the use of different synapses.
 
Of course, being from Alabama I've no idea what a synapse is, but they use it on NCIS a lot.
 
Bottom line: Writing produces thoughts that streamlined speaking doesn't. Chances are high that you will generate different "a-ha" thoughts when writing than with speaking.
 
So here I am on a day, just a-typing away. Doing what I don't like because it will make me better in several areas of life.
 
"The unsuccessful focus on pleasing methods. The successful on pleasing results." —Brian Tracy.
 
If everything has to "feel good" in order to get done, then we're in for a world of nothing.
 
Some stuff just needs finishing. Period.
 
I didn't like eating a healthy breakfast this morning. I wanted bacon-wrapped donuts. Instead I ate a bland high-protein meal. It wasn't exciting. But I will be excited about the RESULTS in about a week.
 
Focus on the results, not the method.
 
I am not excited about writing. But I will be thrilled with the result as I learn to leverage words more effectively.
 
Question:
 
What are you about to give up on (that you shouldn't) because it's not as fun as you want it to be?
 
Solution:
 
Suck it up. Do it anyway.
 
 
 











Grow
 
 
Yes . . . at five-five and a half, I realize it's ironic I am writing an article on growth.
 
So this is not about physical growth, but self-growth.
 
It's easy to stay where we are because it takes no effort. No strain. No pain.
 
Growth requires intention. Movement. Direction. Discipline.
 
It's not accidental.
 
Children grow because of nutrients, love, affection, education and more, right?
 
It's not a mystery. There's no secret.
 
As adults, the temptation is to rest and enjoy what we've worked for. Instead, we need to keep pushing. Keep going. Keep growing.
 
How do we grow?
 
Decide > Learn > Act > Evaluate > Adapt > Adopt
 
Decide on the destination. I think of this as your mission.
 
Learn what it will take to get you there.
 
I heard Gary Key say, "Learning gives us the knowledge to ACT in the direction of our MISSION."
 
Act. Thinking is theoretical. Action is factual. People will tell you all the time they are thinking about doing _______. But it's all smoke until the steps are taken.
 
Evaluate. Not everything we learn translates into perfect results. Take the results you get and decide how well the action worked.
 
Adapt. Make the changes needed before taking the next step.
 
Adopt. When something does work the way you planned, then adopt it. No need to change it right now. Just keep doing it for positive results.
 
That may seem overly simplistic, but it works.
 
Examine your life today.
 
What's growing? What's stunted? What's rotting?
 
 
 











Rewriting Your Goals Daily
 
 
 
Goal setting is usually taught as if it's static.
 
You set a goal. You go for it.
 
But there's a problem. Sometimes we set goals without clarity. We THINK this is what we want to achieve, but deep, deep down we're not sure.
 
When you rewrite your goals every day you not only reconnect with them immediately, you also test them. Goals are more about your gut than your ability to GO.
 
As you write down your goals each day, you'll know if something doesn't feel right. Your mind will begin to work and churn. Within a few days your rewrite will be slightly different. Clearer. More on target.
 
 
 











The Purpose Myth
 
 
 
"What's your purpose?"
 
That question implies there's just one. And it often sends people searching.
 
"If only I knew my purpose."
 
That statement implies that learning about purpose would suddenly create contentment. As if we will be so aligned that life will fall perfectly into place.
 
The truth is, however, deep down we do know our purpose. We do know what we need to do. The problem with purpose is that we are rarely on a mission. We love to think about it; it's the action that causes the trouble.
 
Think about purpose for a moment. . . .
 
There are certain significant roles we know we need to play at different points in life:
 
• Friend.
 
• Parent.
 
• Spouse.
 
• Child.
 
Or significant roles that we are to play all of the time:
 
• Servant.
 
• World-changer.
 
• Peacemaker.
 
• Encourager.
 
These are all part of our purpose. (And there's a lot more that could be added to those lists.)
 
You want know what I think?
 
I think purpose is our great cop-out. It's a way for us to keep searching while we ignore what's right in front of us.
 
Whether or not we find the mysterious purpose, we still have the call to engage life. And we do that by living in a way that helps and serves those around us.
 
Let's replace the word "purpose" with "mission."
 
Mission requires planning. Mission respects action. Mission reveals results.
 
Instead of asking, "What's my purpose?" let's ask, "Am I on a mission?"
 
What's your mission as a parent?
 
What's your mission as a spouse?
 
What your mission as an employee?
 
What's your mission for your body?
 
What's your mission for your friendships?
 
What's your mission spiritually?
 
All of these can be pinpointed and planned for. All of these can allow you to look back in 30 days, 60 days, 90 days or longer, and see exactly what you accomplished. Mission accomplished.
 
Some missions are short-term. Some are long-term. And some are life-term. But all require intel, a plan of execution, and the guts to carry it out.
 
 
 
 











Car Rental
 
Had an unexpected trip and needed a car.
 
Car rental agent (CRA): We are out of cars.
 
Me: Are you sure? Can you call?
 
CRA: (Calls Bob) Hey, are we accepting walk-ups?
 
Meanwhile I was on the rental company's app and made a reservation.
 
CRA: Sorry, sir, but there are no cars. We are not taking walk-ups.
 
Me: But I just made a reservation.
 
Turned my phone to show him.
 
He said several, I mean several bad words in his head and stared at me.
 
CRA: Bob, it's me again. This gentleman just made an online reservation while standing here.
 
CRA: Well, sir, it's your lucky day.
 
Ten minutes later I was off in a mom-mobile, better known as a minivan.
 
Sometimes you can leave the results to the workers.
 
Sometimes you gotta take on the role yourself.
 
 











Make Every Day Count
 
 
 
Today is a NEW day. The good news is that tomorrow will be new too! So our question is, how do we get the most from each day?
 
Personally, I feel it's important to be able to say, "This was a valuable day," right before closing my eyes. (Note: That's not the same as a "good" day. Our days can be rough, but still be valuable.)
 
Value simply means a contribution took place. Someone was helped or served. The contribution can also be to ourselves, when we take the time to grow as individuals.
 
While I don't believe we can make EVERY moment count, I do think we can make every day count. Here are a few ways:
 
#1 Serve.
 
Make a deliberate, conscious, intentional effort to make another's life better.
 
Maybe that's leaving a larger tip at lunch or taking a prayer request from the cashier that looks down and out.
 
#2 Grow.
 
Become a better human being.
 
Where are your gaps as a person? What "issues" do you have that need to change? Work on those.
 
Of course, one of the greatest ways to do this is by having a daily Bible study time. You'll be challenged, convicted and changed,all at the same time!☺
 
#3 Produce.
 
Don't drift through the day. Make a list of what you need to do and do it. Even if you're at the same old boring job each day, make your list. Check things off. Look at it at the end of the day and KNOW you've accomplished what you set out to accomplish.
 
Being productive is within our design. Adam and Eve were placed in the garden to work it, not just to enjoy it.
 
#4 Reflect.
 
Review your day. Accept your achievements. Give yourself some credit.
 
Now review where you blew it. Think about how to improve.
 
#5 Procrastinate.
 
What?!
 
There are times when you NEED to procrastinate. When you're not firing on all cylinders and you know you'll do a bad job, and you can wait, then wait.
 
If your children drive you crazy and you're about to punish out of pure exasperation . . . procrastinate. Sometimes the best thing to do is nothing.
 











They
 
 
 
Wouldn't it be great if "they" were the problem?
 
What will "they" think?
 
"They" won't like it.
 
"They" told me no.
 
Guess what? "They" ain't going anywhere and "they" don't matter anyway.
 
Personal growth, development, and achievement is a lot more about what's inside of you and me than what's outside.
 
The real battle takes place in our mind.
 
The war of perception, acceptance, success and/or failure. It rages, doesn't it?
 
E.g.:
 
You get a bad Amazon review and want to hide because of what "they" said. Your mind goes crazy. It begins to imagine that you're the worst writer in the history of language. And you have proof! A complete stranger that you know zero about has said so.
 
A family member makes a passing comment about your tight pants. You panic. The world knows about your affair with Little Debbie!
 
Those mind games derail us.
 
1. Write, speak, produce without fear. Just let it go.
 
2. Center on positive feedback. If 80 percent of your readers, buyers, etc. are thrilled, then be happy. Ignore the 20 percent. (I know that's tough advice since right now you are consumed by the .0001 percent!)
 
3. Being accepted across the board by everyone is fantasy. Even Mr. Rogers had his critics.
 
4. Stop magnifying "them." Stop making their voice louder than it is. Stop making them bigger than they are.
 
Do your work. Make your art. Publish your writing. Don't let them hold you back.
 











Action Talker or Action Taker?
 
 
 
 
Stop talking. Start doing.
 
We looooooooove to talk about what we are GOING to do.
 
"I'm going to learn Spanish."
 
"I'm going to hit the gym and lose 10."
 
"I'm going to call him up and tell him what's on my mind."
 
"I'm going to finish that addition to the house."
 
"I'm going to start a savings account."
 
"I'm going to drink less sodas."
 
"I'm going to launch a blog."
 
"I'm going to create an online business."
 
All of that is action talking.
 
And it feels so gooooooood. It feels great to broadcast all those intentions. It feels like a step has been taken since the first step is making a decision.
 
But a decision hasn't been made most of the time. It's just talk. Stuff we think about that helps us believe we're really going to do something.
 
Instead of talking about the gym . . . GO.
 
Instead of talking about saving money . . . SAVE.
 
Instead of talking about ________ . . . DO IT.
 
Stop talking. Start moving.
 











Time In
 
 
 
 
Waaaaaaaah. I want to be great right now!
 
Don't you feel that way?
 
Don't you want to blink and be awesome?
 
This morning I opened a series of public speaking lessons I wrote back in 2000. 
 
At the time I thought they were incredible.
 
Today, not so much. I'm rewriting. Sigh.
 
Twenty-five years ago I thought I was a pretty good speaker. I put an old tape in. (Yes, tape. No. Not eight-track.)
 
How did people listen? It was brutal. Sigh.
 
I'm still not the writer and speaker I want to be. But compared to decades ago, I'll admit there's been improvement! :)
 
It took time in to make the difference.
 
Let's stop looking for all the silly shortcuts and just put in the time.
 
The book won't just happen. Sit down and type. It will emerge.
 
The body won't just happen. Hit the road and be careful with the fork. The body will appear over time.
 
Time in—that's how we become great right now.
 











Yaaaawwwwnnnn, Boooooooring
 
 
 
 
In the beginning was the dream. It flooded your mind. Created action. Produced momentum. You were happy because you could see the finish line and the result. You were engaged.
 
Then the newness wore off.
 
The shine dulled.
 
The dream dimmed.
 
It became . . . boring. Yaaaawwwwwnnnnnnnnn.
 
You started to question the dream. You began to wonder if it was too big, or too crazy, or too out there.
 
The truth is this: Your mind craves the new. Craves the fun. Craves the interesting. Craves the shiny.
 
When it wears thin, you begin the search again.
 
Stop.
 
Success comes in the bore of the day-to-day. Success waits just around the corner of the next yawn.
 
The next pound will come off by showing up to the boring gym and yawning through another workout.
 
The next chapter will be written on that plain, boring laptop as you yawn through all those keystrokes.
 
The next sale will be made by pursuing those boring leads and yawning through the presentation you've given ten thousand times.
 
You and me, we are too addicted to the fun experience. If it doesn't feel like a thrill ride, we want to get off and find something that does.
 
Meanwhile, we're getting passed by the slow lane, simply because "they" kept going.
Steady.
Predictable.
Boring.
Yawn.
 
All. The. Way. To. The Finish.
 











I'll Have What He's Having
 
 
 
 
Be you.
 
No, it's not as easy as it sounds, because we are borrowers.
 
We see something that works for someone else and we want to do or be that same thing.
 
In the beginning. . . .
 
Writers tend to write in the voice of their favorite author, so they will become the next _________.
 
Singers tend to sing like their favorite vocalist.
 
Speakers tend to borrow from their favorite presenters. Style. Gestures. Gulp . . . sometimes even stories.
 
But why are we drawn to those people in the first place? The answer is, because they are simply being. Their style, voice and more put their core on display. We like it. In fact, we like it so much that we try to emulate. Copy. Clone.
 
And then we get lost. We wander.
 
What's the solution?
 
Learn the skill and then deliver it your way.
 
Waaaaaaaaay back in 1976 or so I picked up a bodybuilding magazine at a "pac-a-sack" in Central, Alabama (if you don't know where that is, it's right past Santuck).
 
I saw a giant bicep and knew that was what I wanted. The bi belonged to Arnold Schwarzenegger in his Olympia prime. I never knew a human being could grow muscles like that.
 
You might not believe this next part, but I wasn't able to build biceps like Arnold. I know—shocker! However, I could use his exercises. I could borrow his nutrition plan. I could learn the skills it would take to expand my skinny arms.
 
No matter how much I wanted those biceps, my genetic coding only allowed them to grow to their own size and shape. Larger than my start. Stronger than my start. Not Arnold, but Paul. In the process of training, Paul developed.
 
The same is true with our business, art, parenting, whatever. We study, practice, train, work and along the way we find ourselves. It turns out that we don't have to be like someone else; we simply need to allow ourselves to emerge.











Mom's Bible
 
 
 
When I was a kid, Mom woke me every morning. "Paul. Time to get up. Breakfast is ready."
 
Well, you never had to say breakfast twice!
 
My place was set. Breakfast was waiting. And across the table was an open Bible.
 
Mom had been up. Had her coffee. Read the Word.
 
I don't remember being preached to or at. But I do remember the example.
 
Henry Blackaby said, "What you do reveals what you believe, regardless of what you say."
 
 
 











5.5.5 Ways to Engage Life
 
 
 
It's soooooo easy to float. So tempting to make life a lazy river. When we engage life, we gain and give so much more.
 
#1 Awake
 
Go to the mall. Sit on a bench. Watch people. Keep a rough count of the ones awake and those semi-conscious.
 
Do the same with your coworkers.
 
The average person lives in a state of drift.
 
When you wake in the morning, then really wake. Make a goal to engage the day and control the flow as much as possible. Become alert to the people and circumstances around you.
 
#2 Intake
 
What we feed our bodies and minds heavily impacts our engagement.
 
No, I'm not gonna preach about being organic and such (I mean, who can live without bacon, right?).
 
But the truth is this: our physical intake enhances or detracts from our energy and focus and productivity.
 
The same is true mentally. If we refuse to put a filter on what enters our mind, then we invite negativity and toxic thoughts.
 
What are you eating physically, mentally, socially, spiritually, intellectually and relationally?
 
#3 Earthquake
 
Make the earth quake with exercise! Shake your body. Run. Lift. Walk. Do anything but drift.
 
You don't have to get crazy and join a gym or buy a new workout wardrobe. Just move around. Swing those arms.
 
You know the guy power-walking through your neighborhood? The guy with the yellow tube socks? The guy with the short-shorts? The guy with the headband? Yeah, that guy.
 
Be him.
 
#4 Keepsake
 
Write down memories and milestones. Become sentimental. Retell the stories regularly with those you shared them with. Tell them anew to friends and audiences.
 
I've got a picture in my office of my boys when they were young and we were in San Francisco. They're on a cable car. Their faces are alive.
 
#5 Mistake
 
Yep, mistakes help us engage life. They mean we tried.
 
What? Mistakes hurt? They're painful?
 
GOOD!
 
You're feeling something! You're alive. You're experiencing a result.
 
Keep trying. Keep moving. Keep improving.
 
#5.5 Forsake
 
Chances are better than good that we all have some junk we need to throw out of our lives. (Maybe even a few people.)
 
What have you held on to that you won't let go of?
Bitterness?
Grudges?
Eating habits?
Abusive relationships?
 
It's almost impossible to engage life when we continue to embrace what's bad for us.
 
#5.5.5 Snowflake
 
They (and by this I mean scientists) say that every snowflake is unique. Honestly, I have not personally verified that. Got no plans to, either.
 
Point is . . . be you. Your quirky, odd self. And be you for the betterment of other people.
 
Be alive. Engage.
 











The Law of Awesome
 
 
 
Mediocrity overflows. It's full up. No use trying to get in; it's overcrowded.
 
Most people love mediocre.
 
Most people believe in good enough.
Most people do just enough (or less).
Most people feel the minimum is more than enough.
You see that attitude everywhere. It's the natural state of the average.
 
Mediocrity is effortLESS.
 
Awesome, however, is EFFORTless.
 
The more you focus on awesome, the easier it becomes. And awesome comes from adding just a little bit more.
 
Awesome is extra. A smile with a thank-you. A double-checked report. Two cherries on the sundae.
 
Awesome is thoughtful. Making a call to a friend. Sending a note to an associate. Giving a generous tip to the server.
 
Awesome is intentional. Reading personal development books to become better. Taking that knowledge and acting on it. Making the lives of everyone around you richer.
 
Awesome is aware. Paying attention to the out-of-sorts co-worker and offering an ear. Listening deeper to a complaint and realizing the root lies somewhere else. Spotting the homeless and helping instead of shaking your head.
 
Awesome is awakening. Life fills with valuable impact. Others receive more attention than the self. Eyes are opened to the surrounding needs instead of personal wants.
 
Awesome is EFFORTless.
 
Soon all of those awesomes become natural.
 
Which leads to the law of awesome.
 
The more awesome you become, the more awesome everything around you becomes.
 
No. It doesn't mean that people around you will change. Their attitudes will still stink. They will probably take you for granted with their entitlement focus. But everyone around will be better off.
 
Being awesome has nothing to do with THEM and everything to do with YOU!
 
Being awesome brings you to life. It frees you from the crowd. It fills you with purpose.
 
Yes, every now and then you'll give the smile, or the hug, or the letter, or the tip and someone will actually say out loud, "AWESOME!"
 
 
 











In Search of Perfection
 
 
 
Last night was my son Steven's first high school football game as a senior. He plays outside linebacker and free safety.
 
At five feet eight inches and 135 pounds, he wasn't too intimidating to the six-foot-four end he was up against. But what Steven might lack in height and weight, he more than makes up for in grit, speed and strength.
 
Like his dad, he loves training. Loves lifting weights. Loves hitting hard in practice.
 
All of that precedes the actual game.
 
All of that to prepare for the plays that actually count.
 
Guess what. Steven had a great game. Eight individual tackles and a dozen or more assists.
 
Guess what. His team got killed. They lost big.
 
Guess what. His team has practice this morning.
 
Guess what. They have another game to show up for next week.
 
After the game, Steven said he got knocked down, punched, rolled, stepped on, cussed at and drained.
 
I got a call from the trainer, who said he may have broken his toe.
 
But you're not surprised to hear that, right? It's football. It's a hard-hitting sport. It's intense.
 
Then there are those of us with our unrealistic expectations.
 
Instant results.
 
Fast fixes.
 
Take a pill and lose weight.
 
Start a website and retire.
 
Put the time in at work and get an automatic promotion.
 
Place a special order at the drive-thru and it comes to us exactly right.
 
You know. Unrealistic.
 
Training precedes strength.
 
Practice precedes playing.
 
Even then there's no guarantee of the win, but there is the guarantee of success.
 
Earl Nightingale defined success as the progressive realization of a worthy ideal.
 
Progressive - forward progress. movement. momentum.
 
Realization - coming into existence.
 
Personally, I think we put too much pressure on ourselves to be perfect. If it doesn't meet exactly what's in our minds, we get sidelined.
 
Heaven forbid we experience a setback or disappointment.
 
The scale doesn't move for a couple days and we eat a sack of donuts because "this just doesn't work!" (Or is that just me?)
 
Our site doesn't make a dollar with the first, second, or third program we attempt and "everything is a scam!"
 
We collect a check for a few years simply doing our job and we can't believe we got "passed over by a butt-kisser. I'll teach them a lesson! I'll quit!"
 
The truth is. . . 
 
We train. We practice. We play. We get beat up. We train. We practice. . . 
 
It's the process. No one plays a perfect game.
 
This morning at seven, Steven went to the doctor for x-rays. His toe isn't broken, but his foot is completely black and blue.
 
Would you like to know where he is now?
 
Practice.
 
The trainer said if he got x-rays early he could still make practice.
 
That's the commitment required to compete. That's the hustle that's mandatory if we want to succeed.
 
 
 











You Make Me Feel
 
 
 
"They may forget what you said, but they will never forget how you made them feel." —Carl W. Buechner
 
You have the power to make people feel. . . 
 
Amazing.
Wanted.
Loved.
Admired.
Encouraged.
Needed.
Important.
Supported.
Empowered.
Equipped.
Adored.
Unequaled.
Favored
Crowned.
 
And so many more feelings that make people happy and glad to be alive.
 
 











Success Is as Easy as 1, 2, 3
 
 
 
To lead a successful life, career, or business, you need only three things:
 
1. A crystal-clear understanding of WHAT you want to achieve.
 
2. A passionate desire and burning WHY that inspires massive action.
 
3. A plan of action that points to HOW success will be achieved and when.
 
The problem, however, is that while everyone wants to be successful, far too many people are unsure of their WHAT, WHY, and HOW.
 
 











No Traffic Jams
 
 
 
We live in a world of minimums.
 
What's the minimum amount of work I can do to get by, not get fired, and still get that check that I complain about?
 
What's the last minute I can leave and possibly get to the destination on time?
 
What's the lowest tip I can leave and not look cheap?
 
This is why it's so easy to become a standout in today's world. The "average" majority is just that . . . average.
 
Let's walk a little farther. . . 
 
Work hard.
 
Be early.
 
Tip big.
 
(Pet peeve alert: Listen, if you are using a calculator or a "tip card" to figure out how much to tip . . . you're cheap. Period. Leave something that thrills the person. Maybe they even have to rush to the bathroom! :) 
 
And those are just three examples of how to go the extra mile.
 
(Can you believe it? Working hard. Being early. Tipping big. Those are extra-mile things in today's society. Isn't that sad?)
 
So let's go the extra mile in every area. It takes two steps.
 
1. Notice where you usually stop.
 
2. Keep going.
 
You won't be stopped or slowed . . . no traffic jams.
 
 
 











Little Lady
 
 
 
Airport check-in.
 
A little lady is working the counter. It is so good to see that short-people discrimination is not in play here.
 
She can barely see over the counter. Which is awesome because I can barely see over the counter myself.
 
Our eyes meet.
 
We can see each other from the eyes up, but that's it. We've got no clue if the other has a nose or mouth.
 
Little Lady: Next.
 
I step up. I know the system.
 
State name.
 
Hand over driver's license or passport.
 
Since I am headed to Dallas, I hand over my driver's license. The one with the picture I made the sour state worker retake five times because I did not want it to look like I had pulled a bender.
 
Little Lady: Nice photo. (OK, I made that part up.)
 
Little Lady: Mr. Evans, did you check in online?
 
Me: Yes, ma'am.
 
Little Lady: Is Dallas your final destination?
 
Me: Yes. Ma'am.
 
Little Lady: I see you are in 17C. Would you be opposed to an exit row?
 
Me: No, ma'am. (I give a slight grin. Unfortunately she can't see it because of the counter.)
 
Little Lady: I'll put you in 12A. That will get you closer to the front and give you a little extra legroom.
 
Me: Thank you, ma'am! As you can tell, I need it!
 
I winked and walked away.
 
It's good to be short.
 
Don't grow. Stay low.
 
 











How to Turn the Mundane into a Mission
 
 
 
Does today feel like déjà vu?
 
Do all your days seem to run together? Do you collapse at night knowing you've been "busy," but you're not sure what you accomplished?
 
Take these three initiatives to turn the mundane into a mission.
 
Initiative 1: Detail the To-Do.
 
Most of us keep a mental list of what we have to do. But are you keeping a physical list? And if it is physical, is it shorthand or long-hand? Put the details in your list.
 
"Listen to 30 minutes of Andy Stanley's Be Rich on the way to work. Yesterday, Andy covered ________."
 
That's better than, "Listen to spiritual growth stuff."
 
The more specific we are, the more important our minds label the task.
 
Maybe you're picking up your son and three friends for a game. You might write down something like, "Carpool."
 
Sure, that's what you're doing technically. But you can make it missional by focusing on the kids' names and thinking a minute about their home life. Then talk with them with purpose along the way. That way you're not just running an errand, you're interacting and impacting.
 
"Pick up Zack, Steven, and Lincoln for soccer," could be the detail. Here's how to make it a mission.
 
Initiative 2: Define the Benefit
 
After detailing your to-do, define the benefit. Write down at least one possible positive outcome for each task.
 
"Listen to 30 minutes of Andy Stanley's Be Rich on the way to work. Learn new insights about money. Become be more conscious of the way I spend each dollar."
 
"Pick up Zack, Steven, and Lincoln for soccer. Comment on the good grades I heard Zack got, check on Steven's sister, ask about Lincoln's family vacation. This will help me develop a caring attitude for others and be interested in what's going on with them and build them up at the same time."
 
Do either of those look like . . . spiritual growth stuff or carpooling? No.
 
Don't both have more importance and weight? You know it.
 
Initiative 3: Describe the Value
 
At the end of each day or at the end of each week, perform a detailed review.
 
Michael Hyatt schedules two hours on Sunday evenings for his weekly review and planning. (This is part of his Create Your Life Plan workbook.)
 
Does that sound like overkill? Yeah . . . IF you want to remain mundane.
 
When you review your week, write down exactly how you grew and how you helped others. Again, be specific. You will be amazed at the amount of good you are doing that you've written off mentally. You'll begin to recognize the impact you're having that you've been ignoring. And you'll never hit the pillow at night and wonder if you accomplished anything.
 
"I escaped a completely worthless purchase on Tuesday because of Andy's teaching. That money can be put in Sharon's college fund instead."
 
"Zack smiled when I asked about his grades."
 
These things might seem small, but they're not. Each time we detail, define and describe our tasks, we fill them with more meaning. We no longer have anything we do that's mundane; instead, it all becomes a mission.
 
 
 
 
 
 











Memory Loss
 
 
 
"I never forget a face, but in your case I'll be glad to make an exception." —Groucho Marx
 
One of the biggest blessings of my life has been my forgetfulness.
 
Sure, I forget appointments. I forget to call people back. I forget what day it is at times.
 
Most people say it's because I try to do too many things at once (which is a secret to massive productivity).
 
Others say I'm rude for not remembering what they felt was important.
 
BUT. . . 
 
I don't live with bitterness and regret.
 
I bet there are scores of people who have hurt me. Many who have cut me down. People who have schemed behind my back. Gossiped and word got back to me.
 
But I don't think about those things. And since I don't think about them, I don't remember them!
 
This selective memory loss brings peace.
 
People who are bitter and angry have zero memory loss. They reengage the pain multiple times a day. They record the scene and hit replay over and again. They use it as an excuse to hurt others or fail to go forward.
 
Reliving and blaming the past only limits the future.
 
How to forget:
 
1. Forgive.
 
Let the hurt go.
 
"You don't know what he/she did to me!"
 
Right, but I do know that you're not hurting the one who hurt you. You're not punishing the guilty. They don't care. You're punishing all those around you who need your love and support while you waste it on bitterness.
 
And here's a clue—people around you are sick of hearing the same tune over and over. Change the music. :)
 
2. Forward.
 
Look ahead.
 
Who can you encourage today? Who can you build up? Who can you help and serve?
 
Bitterness is selfishness. It has no value. Instead, forget your circumstance and live to give joy and peace to others.
 
You want to talk about freedom? That's when you really have a free life—when you live for others. That's when your life has impact and you live your legacy.
 
 
 











The Question
 
 
 
There's an ongoing battle within everyone except for the "clinical." We ask the same question, but perhaps in different ways.
 
"Do I have what it takes?"
 
Do I have what it takes to. . . 
 
Lose the weight?
Write the book?
Win the award?
Get the degree?
Make the friend?
Start the relationship?
End the relationship?
Climb the mountain?
Force the shot?
Chase the dream?
Get the job?
Fight for the raise?
Share the message?
Pursue the goal?
Run the race?
Step to the stage?
Clean the slate?
Face the valley?
Save the day?
Keep the pace? 
Lift the iron?
Ignore the crowd?
Gain the ground?
 
The answer: Yes. You do.
 
The bigger question: Will you?
 
 
 
 
 











Paul B Evans
 
paulbevans.com
 
Bring "Success is NOT an Accident!" to your association, company or organization.  Paul's keynote will challenge, inspire and equip your people to accept responsibility and give their best.
 
Subscribe to the Success Is NOT an Accident! e-letter by going to paulbevans.com/success
 
You can also access Paul's most popular training programs through his website:
 
The 5 Stones Goal Achievement System
Achieve Productivity
40 Days of Focus
Brain Washed: 7-Day Mental Detox
 
 
 
 
 
















