





Talk
	English - Ken Xiao

Talk
English
The
Secret To Speak English Like A Native In 6 Months For Busy People,
Learn Spoken English From The Success 











Ken
Xiao









THIS is the book every
English learner NEEDS to read. 

Crystal
F. , Canada 



After
2 weeks, the change is significant. Most importantly I think like a
native speaker starting building a little bit in my subconsciousness.


Dexuan
L., China 



How
I can speak English so fast without accent? With your tips I can do
it. I will recommend to my friends with broken English because I
think your book is very helpful for me and other people like me to
learn speak fluent English. Thank you so much! 

Farah
A., Iran 



The
book provides the readers a workable way on how to get to speak
fluent English. It's simple, straightforward, and most important of
all, its focused and not too way long to cost the readers too much
time. 

Joanne
L., Hong Kong 



I
like your book especially all of your suggestions how to improve the
English and soften the accent. Thanks! 

Kasia
L., Poland 



There
are so many books , specifically "help" books, out on the
market that one can get so overwhelmed with the selection. This book,
catering to the English language fluency, is such a great book that
there is no need to even scratch your head over the others. 

Leona
Y., Czech Republic 










Editor's
Word
		Before
having read the book, my expectations of its effectiveness were
neutral-- I wasn't sure if the 6-month plan that would be set forth
by the author would be a realistic timeline for an individual's
learning needs. Regardless, I dove in with a completely open mind and
almost immediately came to realize that my doubts were unfounded. 

	The
book's main promise was that it would provide its readers with a plan
that would transform their broken English into fluent English. After
having read this piece, I can say without a doubt that the book went
above and beyond its initial promise to deliver SO much more. Ken
outlined a meticulously detailed regimen that not only explained
everything one would have to do in order to improve his or her
English (including numerous original strategies and helpful tips) but
he also took on the role of an encourager, cheering his reader on
throughout the whole read. Certainly, this book went above and beyond
to deliver much more than its original promise—it delivered a
lifestyle change. 

	The
strategies that the author has outlined can be applied universally to
any language and I would recommend this book to anyone who would like
to improve his or her fluency in a foreign language (most
specifically English as this is what the author focuses on). THIS is
the book every English learner NEEDS to read. What sets this book
apart from the myriad
of others is the way in which the author connects with his reader;
from his words, you can absolutely feel the suffering he experienced
as result of his broken English and the triumph that overwhelmed him
when he finally succeeded at communicating fluently. This book is
thoughtful and inspiring and its genuine tone will deeply touch its
readers. 

Crystal
Faqiri









Copyright
	No
part of this publication may be reproduced, transmitted, sold, or
utilized in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical,
including photocopying, recording, or by any information storage and
retrieval system, without written consent of Ken Xiao.









Foreword
		There
are so many books , specifically "help" books, out on the
market that one can get so overwhelmed with the selection. This book,
catering to the English language fluency, is such a great book that
there is no need to even scratch your head over the others. Ken does
an incredible job at making it easy to read and understand, precise
and specific in teaching you what to do to better your English, and
most important, he makes it personal. With the personal touch, you
can really fall deep into the emotions, the battles and the triumphs
of Kens journey. He takes you into a place where you can really
relate to him and that makes learning so much easier...and more
fun!
	I,
myself, am not an American Native. I was born in the Czech Republic
and came to the USA at the age of 4 with my parents. Now as a young
child, I picked up the English language quite fast, however my
parents did not. As adults, of course, it's much more difficult
to learn a second language, let alone English, which is not that
easy! They took English as a second language courses at a local
community college and watched "easy to understand" TV
shows, which was all fine and helped them learn the language, but if
they had Ken's book at that time, back in the 1980's,
they really would have scored! 

	Ken
is eager and excited to get this book in your hands. He trusts that
his tips and techniques will help you, just as they did him! I
believe that you will find this book extremely valuable and helpful
and hope you enjoy it as much as I did! 

Leona
Young









About
The Author
Ken
Xiao

Translator
	in the United States Department Of Defense

Bachelor
	of Science in Information Technology

Master
	of Science in Space Studies

Creator
	of MyFluentEnglish Formula

English
	teacher

Principal
	of Shao Wen School Of Education

Business
	owner

Newspaper
	editor
















Table
		of Contents

Editor's
	Word	
Foreword	
About
	The Author	
Introduction	
1
	— A Middle School Dropout Can. Can You? (Must read)	
2
	— From Broken English to Fluent English	
3
	— How Fluent? One Word: Native!	
4
	— The Formula To Make You Speak English Like A Native	
5
	— The One Word Secret	
6
	— Get It Right, Baby!	
7
	— This Is Your Right Hand Man	
8
	— The Step-By-Step Instructions - Let's Make You Speak
	Like A Native!	
9
	— This Is Your Left Hand Man	
10
	— Your Road To Success	












You must do the thing you think
you cannot do.
Eleanor
Roosevelt









Introduction
	You
have studied English for years, yet you still don't speak English
well. You have tried many methods and you still make grammar
mistakes, you still can't speak English fluently, and you still can't
pronounce English words correctly. You can read, but you feel nervous
to speak English or too shy to speak English. 

	The
good news is, this is very normal. You have simply used ineffective
methods to learn to speak English. 

	My
name is Ken Xiao. I was in your situation before, but now I can speak
English like a native, and I accomplished that in six months without
spending a dime. I'm going to teach you how to completely get rid of
your accent and develop an American or British accent to speak
English just like a native speaker, and I'll teach you how to
accomplish that in just six months. 

	In
this book, you'll learn: 

	*
How to speak like a native in six months or less 

	*
How to do that effortlessly on a busy schedule 

	*
How to speak English without translating it first 

	*
How to learn grammar without memorizing grammar rules 

	*
How to build a vocabulary that lasts 

	*
How to make you pronounce English words like native American or
native British 

	*
How to speak English fluently, correctly, and naturally just like a
native 

	*
And more... to make you speak English like a native speaker. 



	You
have studied English for years, yet you still can't speak English
well. The reason is simply: The methods you used were ineffective.
Change your way of learning now. Learn from the success who was in
your situation before and is getting the result you want now. You can
succeed by simply doing what I have done before. Effortlessly follow
the step-by-step instructions in the book to achieve the highest
level of fluency to make you speak English like a native speaker.
Follow the instructions now.









Man is not the creature of circumstances, circumstances
are the creatures of men. We are free agents, and man is more
powerful than matter.
Benjamin
Disraeli









1 — A Middle School Dropout
Can. Can You? (Must read)
 In
a poor farming village in southern China, a child was born. In his
childhood life, he was hungry. SO hungry that even after over 30
years, he still remembers the hunger he'd been through in vivid
details. There was no running water, so he had to carry water home
from a well that was half of a kilometer away using two buckets. And
he was seven years old. The buckets of water were SO heavy that he
couldn't walk straight. At age 7, he started to work in the fields to
plant, cultivate, and harvest crops. At age 7, he started to collect
firewood for cooking. At age 7, he started to cook for the entire
family using open fire. There was no electric stove, and he was lucky
if he got electricity for lighting once a week. He started elementary
school at age 8 and dropped out of middle school at age 13.
	He
moved to America with his family when he was 17. He spoke no English,
went straight to high school, and started to learn English in classes
called English As Second Language (ESL) classes. Since he spoke no
English, English certainly wasn't his favorite subject. At age 20, he
could speak some broken English. Then he used a method which I'm
about to share with you to improve his English fluency, and six
months later, he turned his broken English into fluent English. In
the following effortless practices, he even turned his English into
an English that people who didn't know him thought it was his native
language. 

	Amazing,
isn't it?
	And
here is the best part: This country boy, this middle school dropout,
started at 20, for six months, who successfully spoke English like a
native, has NO special talent! He's just an average person you and I
would see in the country sides. He's just an average person you and I
would meet on the streets.
	This
middle school dropout is talking right in front of you. This middle
school dropout is me.
	And
yes, I, Ken Xiao, a country boy, a middle school dropout, an average
man, started at 20, for six months, can speak English like a native!
	There
is one sole purpose I'm putting my humble background here -
inspiration! Because with a background like that and I can still make
me speak English like a native. Can you?

	What
I used to make me speak English like a native was Myfluentenglish
Formula. It's a formula I created, improved, and perfected. Using the
same formula, I also made me speak two other languages like a native.
 If
a country boy, a middle school dropout, an average man with no
special talent, started at age 20, for six months, can make him speak
English like a native, my friend, yes, you can. Let's start the
six-month journey today to get your results.


To
your success,
Ken
Xiao










My
	first family picture taken in 1983. I'm the boy standing in the
	back.
 









2 — From Broken English to Fluent
English
	When
I was 20, I could understand some English but not much. My vocabulary
was very limited, my accent was very strong, and I first thought in
my language, then translated into my own version of English to speak
to people. The problem was, people couldn't understand me.
	In
short, my English was bad. 


New
	York City. I spoke no English when I came to America.
 











We'll either
find a way or make one.
Hannibal









The Desire For Change (The
ultimate power)
	What
kind of jobs could I get if I could only speak translated, broken
English with a strong accent. That inspired me to start looking for
opportunities to improve my English fluency.
	One
day, I watched an advertisement on TV and saw an expert called Fluent
English Mr. Wang who guaranteed English fluency. He guaranteed that
if you were just starting to learn English and took lessons from him
for a year, your English would be more fluent than others who'd
learned English for ten years. "How amazing is that?" I
thought, but there was a problem. Fluent English Mr. Wang only
offered to teach one-on-one private lessons but I didn't have the
money. By the way, a private lesson at the time was $30 per hour.
	I
wondered what Fluent English Mr. Wang did to get that kind of result,
but I didn't call him because I thought he wouldn't tell me anyways.
Then I thought, "If he can find a way to do it, I can find a
way to do it, too!"
	So
I started by reading books from the library on English fluency. All
of the books I intentionally picked were written by native speakers
because I thought I should learn from the native. There were lots of
words I didn't know but I looked them up in the dictionary. 

	After
I read about 10 books, I summarized all of the strategies into a list
of 10. The strategies were something like "Listen listen
listen," "Read read read," "Use what you've
learned," "Build your vocabulary," and so on.
	I
started applying these strategies, and I could understand a little
more English but the strategies didn't make me speak any better. 

	So
I kept reading books, and again, all were written by native speakers.
But they all said pretty much the same things. I kept reading and
reading. As far as I can remember, I read a total of about 60 books,
and again all of the books I intentionally picked were written by
native speakers, and all of the books said almost the same things.
	The
strategies were ineffective, so I tried a different approach.

A
	tape I used to practice English with.
	Instead of
picking books written by native speakers, all the books I picked this
time were written by successful non-native English speakers who had
made their English fluent. I picked and read about 10 of them. To my
surprised, all the books said the same things as the 60 books written
by native speakers EXCEPT for one thing - Repeat what you hear
again and again.
	"Repeat
what you hear again and again" wasn't mentioned in any of the
60 books written by native speakers at all. 

	Out
of the list of 60 books written by native speakers, one was very
useful. This book wasn't about how to speak fluent English, instead,
it was about how to become successful written by Tony Robbins. I came
across that book and wondered for three seconds of whether or not to
take it. At the last moment, I decided to take it just to take a peek
at it in case if there were something useful. To my surprise, it
turned out to be a great book on how to set goals and how to become
successful. I summarized that book and the ten books written by the
successful non-native English speakers and came up with one strategy,
a strategy I later named Myfluentenglish Formula.

The Perfect Opportunity
	I
was 20 at the time, living in the Brooklyn area of New York City.
Every day I took the subway trains to and from Manhattan. The trip
took 40 minutes each way on the train. The walk to the train station
from home took 12 minutes and the walk from the train station to work
took five minutes. All added together, a round trip took an hour and
54 minutes each day. That created a perfect opportunity for me.
	I
brought my Walkman with me while on the way to work and on the way
home. I normally listened to English lessons and sometimes songs, but
after I read the last 10 books written by non-native speakers and
worked out my strategy, I used the Walkman to try my new strategy -
Repeat what you hear again and again.

Taking Action
	During
these round trips, I first tuned in to a news station. It was NPR,
National Public Radio, to listen to the news. It worked very well
during the 12-minute walk to the train station, but once I entered
the train station, the signal was lost. When I got home at night, I
recorded the news on a tape for the next day so that I could listen
to it on the train. After that, I recorded fresh news every night.
	I
started by whispering the news, but then I began saying it louder.
New York subway trains were as noisy as thunders, and thanks to that!
The noise created the perfect opportunity for me to work on my
strategy - even the person sitting next to me couldn't hear
what I was talking about. So I got to practiced the entire train
rides both ways. 

	In
the beginning, there were lots of words I didn't understand, but I
repeated them anyway! In the beginning, the news was too fast for me,
but I repeated what I heard even if I couldn't catch up. Often when
there was a word or a phrase I couldn't say, I would rewind the tape
and listen to it again. This time, I only listened to it. If I still
couldn't say it, I would rewind the tape again and listen again until
I could say it. Then I would repeat the word or phrase once, twice,
three times ... until I could correctly say the new word or
phrase. It helped a lot! The next time I heard that same word or
phrase, I could correctly say it.

Following Through
	Three
months later...
	I
decided to record my own speaking to see how much I had improved
because I had heard some people (at least three that I remembered)
saying that I spoke good English. So I wrote down some daily
conversational phrases and recorded my voice saying them. To my
surprise, I DID speak what I wrote down pretty fluently! I could
still hear my accent but the accent was much lighter. Compared to
other ESL learners, my English was even better!
	I
got excited about the results and decided to slightly adjust my
approach.
	The
first thing I changed was recording the news once a week, listening
and practicing the same English from native speakers for a whole
week. In the beginning of the week, there was almost always something
I couldn't say. At the end of the week, I'd mastered speaking
everything on the whole tape. I was even almost able to recite
everything on the tape including words, sentences, tones, flow...
	The
next week, I recorded a new tape and did the same things for the rest
of the week. I did it for a month and mastered four tapes of English
taught by native speakers. On week five, I went back to practice the
previous four weeks' English with one tape per day. For the remaining
days of the week, I practiced the tapes that I had the hardest time
with.
	Within
a month, I'd mastered speaking four tapes of English taught all by
native speakers. Each tape was 60 minutes long. Four tapes were 240
minutes of English taught by native speakers.

The Result
	Three
months later...
	As
you may have guessed, I recorded my speaking again and the results
were surprising! My accent was gone, my voice was clear, my
pronunciation was correct, and my flow was smooth. In other words, my
English was fluent!
	It
was a total of six months that I had spent practicing my English, but
the result was overwhelming.
	After
talking to a friend on the phone for a moment, the friend suddenly
asked, " What did you do?" I said, "Huh? What do
you mean?" He said, "Your English! It's GOOD!" I
could hear the word "good" was coming from his heart. He
said the word "good" with a tone that was so sincere that
I could feel the energy of his voice.
	Two
of my cousins, both native speakers, asked, "How come YOUR
English is so good but your brother's and sisters' are not?"

The Continuing Effort
	I
didn't just stop there. For the months and years that followed, I
continued to use my strategy when I found opportunities even though
my situation had changed. 

	Years
later I developed yet another strategy I called Open Throat, which
I'll talk about in the next chapter. When speaking English with the
Open Throat Strategy, my English sounds absolutely, 100% native.
	When
my son was in first grade, he invited me to read to his class as a
guest reader. His teacher was so upset because I looked like I
couldn't speak English, which would mean disaster to her class.
However, his teacher was absolutely stunned when I spoke. I saw her
eyes widen for five seconds followed by a long smile. She watched
quietly as I inspired her students to enjoy the book by talking with
100% enthusiasm and speaking in 100% native English. She then
suddenly jumped into action by whipping out her camera and started
taking pictures. She even interrupted me by asking if she could put a
picture in her class newsletter. She later asked if I could
participate more to help her in her class activities.







3
— How Fluent? One Word: Native!
	This
is a strategy which I had later developed that brought my fluency to
the next level - native. I called it Open Throat.
	When
practicing, open your throat, talk with your diaphragm, and bring the
energy from your stomach.
	The
energy flow and the way of speaking make a huge difference. To do
this, you must open your throat, let the air flow through, and talk
with energy from your stomach. You should feel your stomach tighten
when you talk.
	So
bring your energy up all the way from your stomach, let the air flow
from your lungs through your throat, and talk with your throat open.
	After
my daughter joined her school chorus class, she told me that her
chorus teacher taught the class the following:
	"Open
throat!"
	Have
you ever seen anyone sing with their throat? In other words, singing
like that is called singing with a "Chicken Throat." It's
far from good. How do you like that? 

	Are
you too nervous to speak English? Are you too shy to speak English?
Are you using Chicken Throat to speak English because you're nervous
or shy, because you're afraid you'll make mistakes so others may
laugh at you? 

	Listen
to me: English is a foreign language to you anyway. Making mistakes
speaking a foreign language is very normal! Instead, open your throat
to speak English. Open your throat and use Myfluentenglish formula to
make you speak English like a native! Do that for six months, and
then, when you speak like me, when you speak English like a native,
and even native speakers are scare of you, who is going to laugh at
you?









It is in the moment of decision that your destiny is
shaped.
Anthony
Robbins










Decide
	What You Want is like setting a target for you to shoot at.
4 — The Formula To Make You Speak
English Like A Native
Here
is the formula!
	It's
called Myfluentenglish Formula. Myfluentenglish Formula has three
steps.
Step
1: Set Your Goal
Step
2: Take Action
Step
3: Follow Through 

Step
1: Set Your Goal
	Setting
your goal is deciding what you want. Congratulations! You've already
decided what you want. By getting this book, you're very clear that
your Step 1 is to speak English like a native (or at least speak
English fluently).
	The
word "decide" originates from Greek and means to cut off
from. Once you've decided on what you want, that's it, you cut off
from any other possibility and focus only on what you've decided on.
	Decide
what you want is like setting a target for you to shoot at.
	Clarity
is power. The more clear you are on what you want, the more precise
your brain takes you to your target. You must know exactly what you
want so that you know exactly where to go.
	When
I used Myfluentenglish Formula to learn to speak English, I decided
that I wanted to speak fluent English. With the target set in place,
I started working to reach the target. I worked only on my spare
times, but with a target set in sight, I aimed at the target and knew
exactly where to go.
	If
you decide to speak fluent English, go for it. If you decide to speak
English like a native, go for it! These are very clear targets. 

	Once
you've decided on exactly what you want, it's critical that you
continue focusing on your target. That's "focusing" on your
target. The key word is "focusing." You haven't shot any
arrows at your target yet. Step 1 is just setting your target in
place.
	In
review, your target is what you want; what you want is your target.
With that in mind, you're now ready to take Step 2.
Step
2: Take Action
	Once
you have set your target in place, you'll need to take out your bow
and arrows and shoot at your target. Once you have decided on what
you want,
you'll need to get what you want. To get what you want, you'll have
to take action.
	It
does NOT matter what we CAN do; it does matter what we WILL do. After
you set your target, in order to get any result, you'll have to shoot
at your target.
	Look
at me in these two situations:
	1.
If I can speak English like a native speaker, I have a college degree
in information technology, I have a graduate degree in space studies,
I live in the United States of America, a free society where
everything is possible.

Shoot
	at your target. In order to hit your target, you'll need to shoot at
	your target.
	With all of these
potential powers, I CAN do a lot of things, but if I DO NOT do
anything, nothing will happen.
	2.
If I speak broken English, I don't have money for private lessons, I
don't have much time to learn English.
	With
all of these restrictions, I CAN'T do a lot of things to speak fluent
English, but if I WILL do something to speak fluent English, I will
still achieve some fluency. In fact, with all these restrictions, I
did something and made me speak English like a native.
	It's
not what we are capable of that makes things happen; it's what we
WILL do that makes things happen.
	When
I was 20, I knew I wanted to speak fluent English, and I took action
to improve my English. And I DID get excellent results. My action got
me exactly what I wanted.
	So
take action to get what you want. Literally get going to get what you
want. I'll show you step-by-step instructions of what action to take.

Step 3: Follow Through
	Once
you've decided on what you want, and you're taking action to do what
you want, keep working on it. Follow through until you succeed!
	Making
you speak English like a native is a job takes more than a day to do.
Keep taking action day-by-day to get there. Start small and keep
building your fluency little-by-little, day-by-day.
	Let's
look at this example. If you want to lift 300 pounds, can you lift
300 pounds? How about 3 pounds? Can you lift 3 pounds? Yes! You can
start by lifting 3 pounds day, day-by-day, every day. You keep
increasing the amount of weight little-by-little, day-by-day. Before
you know it, what seemed impossible before is already possible.
You've already built enough muscle to effortlessly lift 300 pounds.
	When
I started to improve my English, I started by taking one single
action. The next day, I took one more action. I kept taking the same
action day-by-day. After three months, I had already built enough
fluency that people started telling me that my English was good!
	I
followed through by building my fluency little-by-little, day-by-day.
After another three months, I started to speak what seemed impossible
before - fluent English!
	If
you'd build your fluency by just 1% a day and keep building on it,
imagine what your fluency will be like six months later . You could
have built enough fluency to speak English that seemed impossible
before!
	Let's
review the Myfluentenglish Formula. The Myfluentenglish Formula has
three steps:
Step
1: Set Your Goal
Step
2: Take Action
Step
3: Follow Through









Life is either a daring adventure or nothing.
Helen
Keller










Practicing
	Kung Fu. Practice was key to my success.
5 — The One Word Secret
		Now
that you know the formula, it's time to learn what to do to speak
English like a native.
		Let's
take a look at this:
You
want to learn Kung Fu so that you can beat 10 people. You've watched
Kung Fu movies and instructional videos. You've also watched how Kung
Fu masters beat 10 people. You know the skills you need to know to
beat 10 people. Now you're facing 10 people. Can you beat them? 

		The
answer is obvious. If you want to beat 10 people, just knowing how
will not let you beat them. In order to beat them, you'll have to
practice your Kung Fu. You'll need to build up your muscles, harden
your fists, stretch your legs, aims your kicks...
	You
need to get your mind mentally ready and your bodily mechanisms
physically ready to beat 10 people. In order to do that, what you
need to do is one word: practice.
	The
same thing applies to speaking English. If you want to speak English
like a native, just knowing how to speak will not get you there;
you'll have to practice speaking English. I mean literally practice
speaking English, over and over again. You need to open your throat,
relax your tongue, loosen your muscles, control your flow...
	You
need to get your mind mentally ready and your bodily mechanisms
physically ready to speak English like a native. In order to do that,
what you need to do is one word: practice.
	There
are many places where you can practice. I highly recommend you use
all of them whenever possible.
On
The Train
	If
you take the train to work, congratulations! I hope your train is
loud so you can follow my exact footsteps - because if your
train is too quiet, people will look at you. When I practiced on the
train, I found a corner seat to sit down. You can do the same. Find a
corner seat and practice your English.
	You
should speak out loud! You should NOT whisper, because whispering
will get you a different result, and that's NOT the result you want.
In this digital age, you are lucky! You can take out your cellphone,
put on your headphones, and practice just like you would on a phone.
The person sitting next to you will think you're talking on the
phone. 

On
The Bus
	If
you take the bus to work, congratulations! Your bus won't be too loud
so it won't damage your hearing. Still try to speak like you normally
would because whispering will get you a different result. Whispering
will train your tongue and lips but will not train your throat, your
diaphragm, stomach, tone, volume, and airflow. Remember though -
in order to be fluent, you'll have to practice in other places where
you can speak out loud.
In
The Car
	This
is, by far, my favorite place to practice my English. There is a lot
of freedom in the car, and you can go full throttle when practicing.
	When
I later got the chance to practice in the car, I practiced everything
I heard. Since the car was much quieter than the train and no one was
sitting next to me, I turned up the volume and followed what I heard
with the exact same tones, exact same volumes, exact same flow, exact
same speed, exact same expressions... exact same everything. In
addition, I got to use my hands to help me express my feelings.
	I
always closed the windows so that people on the street wouldn't be
able to hear me. Occasionally I saw people on the street looking at
me puzzled. Today, you're lucky. When people on the street look at
you, they will just think you're just talking on the phone.
	So
in short, when practicing in the car, just follow with the exact same
tones, exact same volumes, exact same flow, exact same speed, exact
same expressions, exact same everything at full speed. I do want to
stress though, it's speaking you should go full speed on, not
driving. So drive safe.
At
Home
	Do
you cook at home? I know I do. I started cooking for the family since
I was 7, so I'm very good at it. I even taught my wife how to cook
since she'd never cooked before she married me. For me, cooking
normally takes 10 minutes for breakfast and 40 minutes for dinner.
That's 50 minutes a day. When doing cooking, your brain is free and
it's a perfect time to practice. This is a real good time to put on
your headphones and practice.
Outdoor
	Outdoor
activities such as running, jogging, walking, hiking, and shopping
can also be great opportunities for practicing.
At
Work
	I
worked at the Boeing Company for two years where I often worked at
the aircraft-building factory. The factory was very noisy, and
everyone must wear earplugs in the assembly areas. I used this as an
excellent opportunity to practice - I put on my noise-canceling
headphones and practiced as loud as I wanted and no one could hear
me.
	Is
your workplace a good place to practice? How many hours do you work a
day? If you can put your work hours to good use, you can skyrocket
your results. 










The successful warrior is the average man with
laser-like focus. 

Bruce
Lee








6
— Get It Right, Baby!
	Carefully
choosing the correct materials is the key to your success. The
materials you choose determine whether you will speak good English,
bad English, right English, or wrong English. 

	I
would like you to see this very clearly:
	The
pronunciations of British English and American English are different.
If you want to speak like a native, you want to speak like a native
of what? A native of what? You can't mix the the two accents if you
want to speak like a native! You must pick only ONE to learn. Either
one is fine, but you must pick ONE. Pick one, stick with it, and
leave the other one alone. You can go back to other one AFTER you
speak one like a native. Before you speak like a native,  focus on
one.
	In
other words, if you want to learn to speak British English like a
native, pick ALL materials in British English. Likewise, if you want
to learn to speak American English like a native, pick ALL materials
in American English. Pick one language, British or American, and
stick with it!
	There
are two boats you can catch. Each boat will get you to a different
destination, but you can only sit on one boat at a time. So pick a
boat and get on it.
	You
want to speak English like a native, right? Listen to the expert!
Pick one. You can understand the other one perfectly well, but to
speak like a native, you must pick one and only one.
	Remember
what Bruce Lee said? Focus!
 If
unfocused, your laser beam is not strong enough to melt snow, but if
focused, your laser beam is strong enough to cut steel!
	Take
three seconds to think of which accent to learn and then continue
reading.
	Now
that you have chosen your language, it's time to choose the right
materials. Think of it this way:
	If
you choose materials in which someone is speaking native English,
you'll learn to speak native English.
	If
you choose materials in which someone is speaking incorrect English,
you'll learn to speak incorrect English.
	If
you choose materials in which native speakers are speaking English in
real life situations, you'll learn to speak real life English.
	If
you choose materials in which native speakers are speaking English in
unrealistic situations, you'll learn to speak unrealistic English.
	...
	I
remember listening to a tape which a friend was introducing a friend
to another friend. The conversation was like this:
	"Mr.
Wong, this is Mr. Chen, Bill Chen. Mr. Chen, this is Mr. Wong, Dan
Wong."
	"How
do you do?"
	"It's
my pleasure to meet you."
	"Me,
too!"
	This
conversation from an old recorded lesson was perfectly correct in
English grammar, and the people participating in the conversation
were native English speakers. However, this is wrong! Very wrong!
Native English speakers don't speak this way. This makes people feel
awkward and uncomfortable, and the atmosphere is filled with
restrictions. Essentially, the conversation would be unnatural.
	In
the real world, the conversation would be like this:
	"Dan,
meet Bill!"
	"How's
going, Bill?"
	"How's
going, Dan?"
	Notice
the "How's going" but not "How's it going?"
This is the actual conversation native speakers use when meeting new
people. This is a casual, informal conversation that native speakers
feel comfortable to take part in.
	So
if you have lessons from English instructional textbooks or
recordings that are not performed by native speakers or are not about
real life situations, put them away. Choose something that people
actually do use.
	Choose
these materials:

All
	materials performed only by native speakers.
All
	English must be naturally spoken in real life situations.
Pick
	all materials in ONE accent: British English OR American English.
Again,
	learn ONE language and only one language. Either one is fine.

	Here
are some right materials to use:

News!
	Yes, news! Two good examples are BBC News and NPR News. These are
	real life situations reported to you in direct, clear, and easy to
	understand English. 

Learning
	sites: For British English, BBC Learning is excellent choice. Here
	is a shortened URL http://tinyurl.com/qqq3333.
	For American English, Voice of America Learning is an excellent one.
	Here is a shortened URL http://tinyurl.com/qqq3334.
	

Audio
	story books! This is, by far, my favorite source. Listen to stories
	with lots
	of action. There, you can pickup English vocabulary words quickly.
	Pick ALL audio story books written by native writers and read by
	native speakers. You can get a free copy of audio book on Amazon. Go
	to http://tinyurl.com/qqq3335.
	

Movies.
	With pictures, movies are easy to understand.
Your
	choice of your favorite materials performed by native speakers in
	real life situations.









7
— This Is Your Right Hand Man
	When
I practiced my English, I didn't spend a dime. I used the Walkman and
the pair of cheap headphones that I already had .
	Today,
you're lucky. You can use your cell phone and a pair of cheap
headphones. If you drive a car, link up your cellphone with your car
via Bluetooth and use the speakers of the car. If you don't have a
cellphone, that's fine. You can use an MP3 player or other playing
devices.
	When
I practiced my English on subway trains, the subway trains were so
loud that I had to turn up the volume. I remember so clearly that I
turned the volume up to 10 and the highest volume on that Walkman was
10. In noisy areas, a pair of noise-canceling headphones is a good
choice since turning the volume up too high can damage your hearing.
	There
are two new technologies available today. One is over-the-ear
noise-canceling headphones, and the other is in-ear isolation
headphones.
	Over-the-ear
Noise-canceling headphones filter out what you don't want to hear and
let you hear what you do want to hear at low volume. The headphones
detect outside noise and generate sound waves in the opposite
frequency, flattening the outside noise, making it inaudible to you.
	I
own a pair of Audio-technica headphones I bought on Amazon. These
headphones can block off about 70% of background noise, making my
audio clear enough to keep the volume low even in noisy areas. The
headphones can be found on Amazon at this shortened URL
http://tinyurl.com/qqq3336.
I've also checked out a pair of high-end Bose headphones that were
described as much better in performance. According to the report, the
headphones can block off about 90% of background noise. However,
these headphones cost three times as much as the Audio-technica
headphones. The Bose headphones can be found also on Amazon at this
shortened URL http://tinyurl.com/qqq3337.
I've also tried a pair of low-end headphones that a coworker had at
Boeing. The price was $30 cheaper than my Audio-technica headphones,
but the quality was bad. It only blocked off about 40-50% of
background noise.
	In-ear
isolation headphones are small, light, and easy to take with you.
They're good for outdoor activities. These headphones are, by far,
cheaper than over-the-ear noise-canceling headphones. Here is a pair
of decent ones on Amazon for a fraction of the price of the
over-the-ear noise-canceling headphones: http://tinyurl.com/qqq3338.
	Make
sure you hear me: use these noise-canceling headphones or
noise-isolation headphones ONLY if you absolutely need them. You can
practice much better with no headphones or with a pair of regular
headphones. You can speak much better if you can hear what you say. 










Nature has placed mankind under the governance of two
sovereign masters, pain and pleasure. It is for them alone to point
out what we ought to do, as well as to determine what we shall do.
Jeremy
Bentham








8
— The Step-By-Step Instructions - Let's Make You Speak
Like A Native!
	Let's
review! Myfluentenglish Formula has three steps.
Step
1: Set Your Goal
Step
2: Take Action
Step
3: Follow Through 










Concerning all acts of initiative and creation there is
one elementary truth — that the moment one definitely commits
oneself then divine providence moves too. 

William
Hutchinson Murray








Let's
do Step 1: Set your goal!
 If
there is only one thing that you want to take from this book, this is
it.
	Yes.
This is the single most important thing in this entire book.
	Let's
continue.
	Step
one is set your goal.
	Set
a solid goal, a stone goal, an iron goal, a strong goal..., a goal
that WILL get you going, a goal that WILL push you forward, a goal
that WILL burn your desire to make you speak English like a native.
	There
are two effective way to set your goal: inspiration and desperation.
	For
me it was easy. "What kind of jobs could I get if I could only
speak translated, broken English with a strong accent." That
was it! I didn't want to work in a restaurant doing labor work for
life. My uncle already found me a job working as an assistant chef in
the restaurant he worked. For me, it was desperation: If I don't do
anything about my broken English, I'd be doing labor work for life.
BUT if I improve my English and speak English fluently, I'd be doing
office work and live a much more comfortable life.
	That
was a small reason, but it was a strong enough reason to push me
forward. What is yours?
 Here
are some examples of inspiration:
	"I
have a much better background than Ken. If he can make him speak
English like a native, I can make me speak English like a native. I
WILL make me speak English like a native. Let me take action now!"
	"If
Ken, a country boy, a middle school dropout, started at age 20, for
six months, can speak English like a native, I can definitely speak
English like a native! I WILL make me speak English like a native in
six months period!"
 Here
are some examples of desperation:
	"If
I keep speaking English like this, I'm going to be doing labor work
for life. BUT if I speak English like a native, I'm going to live a
comfortable life."
	"If
I don't speak English like a native, I'm never going to get that
dream job. BUT if I speak English like a native, not only will I get
that dream job, I'll have enough money to move out of this apartment
and buy that house on top of the hill."
	For
desperation, you need to have two parts to make it work. Part one:
the pain you have if you don't speak English well. AND part two: the
pleasure you'll get if you speak English well. When you have these
two parts, your goal works extremely well.
	Use
whatever you can think of that will inspire you...
	Use
whatever you can think of that you desperately need...
	......
	Write
down your goal! Yes, write it down. Write down your goal and put it
somewhere you can see it VERY OFTEN!
	Write
down your goal and look at it as often as you can.
	I
wrote down my goals and placed them on the ceiling in my bedroom
right above my bed. I also put a copy on the wall beside my bed. I
also put a copy on my desk. I also put a copy in my wallet.
	Put
your goal in places where you can see them as often as possible. The
point here is for you to look at your goal as often as possible to
remind you that you have a goal to work on!
 80/20
	This
is the golden rule for success: 80% of your success depends on your
goal, and 20% on your work.
	Once
again, if there is only one thing that you want to take from this
book, this is it. This is the single most important thing for your
success. If you have your 80%, there are lots of different ways for
you to get there. Without your 80%, what are you going to do your
other 20% for?
	......
	A
man got fired from his company. He got SO mad that he opened a
company to compete with the company that fired him. 

	The
man set a goal, then he worked toward the goal, and in just a few
short years he beat the company that fired him. His company today is
worth $112 billion.
	The
man's name is Thomas Watson. The company is IBM.
	......
	A
man got fired from his company. He set a goal to open his own
business. He sent an application and a business plan to a bank for a
£100,000 loan. The bank asked him to send 16 copies of his
plan. He got excited and sent 16 copies of his plan. He never heard
from the bank again, so he called the bank. This is the answer he got
from the bank:
	"We
never wanted to lend you the money. We asked for 16 copies your plan
to show our employees what a dumb plan is."
	The
man tried eight other banks and all refused to lend him money. With a
goal set in mind, he tried the ninth bank, and he got the loan. The
bank told him that his plan was a very bad plan, but the loan was
approved because the loan officer was going to retire in two weeks so
whether or not he could pay back the loan didn't matter him. 

	The
man then set up his business, and with a goal in mind, he was
incredibly successful. He paid back the loan in full and sold his
business for £47 million. The company that bought his business
was WH Smith, the company that fired him.
	The
man's name is Tim Waterstone. The business he opened is the British
book store empire, Waterstones.
	......
	Let
me say this again.
 If
there is only one thing that you want to take from this book, this is
it.
	Yes.
This is the single most important thing in this entire book.
 If
you haven't read my background yet, read it now. Because with a
humble background like that and I can still set a goal and
successfully made me speak English like a native, tell yourself this:
yes, I can!
	There
was one simple reason for me to set a goal that pushed me forward to
learn to speak like a native. The more reasons you can find the
better. If all you can find is just one reason, that is enough. Find
a reason why you must speak English like a native. Not you want, not
you need, not you should, but you MUST. A reason so strong that you
must do it . Find that reason now. Then set your goal.









Deep within man dwell those slumbering powers; powers
that would astonish him, that he never dreamed of possessing; forces
that would revolutionize his life if aroused and put into action.
Orison
Swett Marden








Let's
do Step 2: Take Action!
	To
speak English like a native, you'll need to learn from the native,
but how to learn from the native is the key. In this step, I'm going
to show you how. 

	Remember
the Kung Fu example I mentioned earlier? If you want to be good at
Kung Fu, you're going to have to practice Kung Fu. If you want to be
good at English, you're going to have to practice English. 

	So
how are you going to learn from the native? Practice.
	I'm
going to show you nine action to completely get rid of your accent
and make you speak English just like a native. So have your MP3
player or your cellphone ready. Put on your headphones if you need.
Go to one of the following links to download a native study material.
	For
American English, download this one: http://tinyurl.com/qqq4444.


	For
British English, download this one: http://tinyurl.com/qqq4445.


	Just
type either one of the above links on your web browser, and the
native study material will be automatically downloaded to your
computer. Remember, download only one and leave the other one alone.
	Now
let's take Action 1.


Action
1: Listen And Repeat At The Same Time
	Listen
to the native study material and repeat what you hear immediately. I
mean immediately. Right at the moment you hear it.
	I
would like to stress the importance of this. When you hear the
beginning of a sentence, you repeat the beginning of the sentence.
When you hear the middle of a sentence, you repeat the middle of the
sentence. When you hear the end of a sentence, you repeat the end of
the sentence. Whenever you hear something, repeat that immediately.
	In
other words, repeat what you hear as quickly as you can. Say it back
without trying to understand it or trying memorize it.
	Yes.
I typed it right, and you read it right. Say it back without trying
to understand it or trying memorize it. Just repeat what you hear
immediately as quickly as you can. And relax! What you're doing here
is naturally building your fluency. You're doing this to train your
brain, your mouth, your tongue, your lips, your throat, your lungs,
your stomach ... and everything you need to NATURALLY speak English
without first translating it! So just say what you hear immediately
without trying to understand it or memorize it. Let the meaning, the
grammar, the vocabulary ... and everything else build subconsciously.
	In
the beginning of your practice, if you hear words you don't know how
to say or words that are hard to say, that's perfectly fine. Just try
to say the words or just make some noise and move on.


Action
2: Finish Repeating The Whole Material
	Listen
to and repeat the whole material from the beginning straight to the
end. If you have to pause it, pause it. When you come back, keep
going from where you've left off. What you're doing here is building
your flow, making you speak whole sentences instead of just words, so
repeat whole sentences and the whole material from the beginning to
the end.
	Again,
if you come across something you can't say correctly or can't say at
all, that's fine - just make some noise and move on. Remember,
even if there are words you can't say, keep on going forward.
Continue all the way to the end.


Action
3: Record Your Voice
	Yes,
record your voice practicing this piece of native study material.
This is crucial. Do NOT skip this. 

	Now
you know how to practice the repeating strategy and you have already
repeated this material once. At this point, you'll need to record
your own voice repeating this same piece of material. So find a
recording device such as your computer, another cell phone, or other
recording device and record your voice.
	
By the way, you'll need to put on a pair of headphones to listen to
the native study material this time so that you can record your voice
clearly. So listen to the native study material through your
headphones this time. Find a recording device such as your computer,
another cell phone, or other recording device and record your voice
do the following:
	Record
your voice repeating the whole material from the beginning to the
end.
	Repeat
everything you know how to say and make some noise on everything you
don't know how to say. Just do your best and keep on going forward.
	Remember
to keep going straight forward until you get to the end. Save your
voice file and leave it alone. You will listen to it later.


Action
4: Finish Repeating The Whole Material All At Once Yet Another Time
	For
the third time, listen to and repeat the same material from the
beginning right to the end. You want to keep your flow going -
repeat the full sentences and the whole material. Repeat everything
you know how to say and make some noise on everything you don't know
how to say. Just do your best and keep going forward until you reach
the end.


Action
5: Rewind And Repeat The Words You Can't Say As Many Times As You
Need
	Now
that you have listened to and repeated the whole thing three times
and you know the sentence flow. It's time to listen to and repeat the
same thing again. Yet this time, immediately go back to the words you
can't say or have hard time to say. Listen to them again and try to
say them again. Try to say them again and listen to them again. Try
once, twice, three times.... Try as many times you need UNTIL you can
finally say them.


Action
6: Ignore The Meaning And Focus On Speaking
	When
you hear and repeat some words you don't know the meaning of, just
ignore the meaning and keep practicing speaking. Yes, you read it
right. Do ignore the meaning and focus only on speaking.
	Avoid
translating the words! You want to understand these words in English,
not in other languages! To speak English like a native, you'll need
to speak English NATURALLY. Let the meaning of the words come to you
naturally in English, and you can accomplish that by learning more.
When you master speaking, you'll understand the words automatically,
in English. So ignore the meaning and focus on speaking and only on
speaking.


Action
7: Finish Repeating The Whole Material For Three Times
	Now
that you know how to say every word in this piece of native study
material. It's time to practice the whole thing again. From the
beginning to the end, practice saying what you hear for three times.
Be sure to mimic the flow, the tones, the volumes, the expressions,
the speed... Try to mimic everything.
	Practice
this piece of native study material three times and then move on.


Action
8: Record Your English
	Congratulations
for getting this far! Now it's time to record your voice again
repeating the same piece of native study material. Take out your
recording device and record yourself repeating the very same piece of
material you've been practicing. Save your voice file.
	Now
it's time to compare your recordings. Listen to the first recording
first and then listen to the second recording. How do you like your
English in the beginning? How do you like your English now? Do you
hear any improvement?
	If
you don't hear any improvement, that's fine. This piece of native
study material may not be a good fit for you or you may be too good
for this piece of native study material. Let's move on. Take Action
9.
	If
you do hear improvement, congratulations, you ARE speaking better
than before. Let's do even better than that! Move on. 

	Is
your English as good as the speaker? If your English is as good as
the speaker, good job! You are beginning to speak like a native! Keep
up the good work! Let's take Action 9.


Action
9: Find A Different Piece Of Material And Do Action 1 To 8
	First,
let's rate this native study material. Choose one of the following.
To me, this native study material is:



Too
			slow.
Just
			right.
Too
			fast.



	Choice
3: Too fast. If you chose 3, congratulations! That's very normal! Go
to one of the following links, pick a different native study material
at a slower speed, use the new native study material and do action 1
to 8 again.
	Slower
speed for American English: http://tinyurl.com/qqq4446


	Slower
speed for British English: http://tinyurl.com/qqq5551
	Choice
2: Just right. If you chose 2, congratulations! You're almost there!
You'll be speaking like a native very soon. Go to one of the
following, pick a different native study material at the same speed,
use the new native study material and do action 1 to 8 again.
	Average
speed for American English:
http://tinyurl.com/qqq4447
 Average
speed
for British English:  http://tinyurl.com/qqq5552
	Choice
1: Too slow. If you chose 1, congratulations! Your English speed is
too good. Unless you really want to speak faster than an average
native English speaker, go back to Choice 2, pick a different native
study material, use the new native study material and do action 1 to
8 again. If you still want to speak faster than an average native
English speaker, go to one of the following links, pick a different
native study material at ultra fast speed, use the new native study
material and do action 1 to 8 again.
	Ultra
fast speed for American English: 
http://tinyurl.com/qqq4448
	Ultra
fast speed for British English: http://tinyurl.com/qqq5553









Give me a lever long enough and a fulcrum on which to
place it, and I shall singlehandedly move the world.
Archimedes








Let's
do Step 3: Follow Through!
	Keep
doing Step 2! This is Step 3! Keep taking action 1 to 9. This is how
you follow through to get the results you've been waiting for. 

	Once
a month, go back to the previous pieces of native study materials
you've practiced before and try to practice them again. This is for
your retention. Go back to them and practice them again. This will
help your brain naturally memorize them and your bodily mechanisms
naturally speak them!
	Here
is something to get excited about: By taking action 1 to 9, your
brain will NATURALLY process the pronunciation, grammar, sentence
flow, speed, tone, vocabulary ... and everything you need to
speak like a native on whatever you practice. As a result, you'll
know exactly how to correctly pronounce English words, you'll know
exactly when to start, when to pause and when to stop, you'll know
exactly what to say louder and what to say softer, you'll know
exactly when to speak faster and when to speak slower ... just
like native speakers would.
	This
step will bring you the results you've been waiting for! If there is
one word to describe this step, the word is "persistence."
Keep building on top of what you've been building to achieve what you
want. 

	By
the way, here is a reminder: Open Throat!
	That's
it! Follow through and you WILL get there!








9
— This Is Your Left-Hand Man
	I'm
your teacher and also your left hand man. Please feel free to send me
an email at ken@myfluentenglish.com
if you have questions or simply send me an email to tell me about
your success story. You never know how many people you can inspire by
simply sharing your story.









Reason guides but a small part of man, and the rest
obeys feeling, true or false, and passion, good or bad.
Joseph
Roux








10
— Your Road To Success
	Fun
fact:
	One
percent (Yes, 1% ) of people who buy instructional books follow the
instructions in the books and succeed. The other 99% will put the
books away and search for other books or do nothing else and never
succeed on what they wanted. That's the reason why for every 100
people who want to learn to speak English like a native, one person
will succeed.
	Are
you going to be the 99% who will put this book away and buy other
books or the 1% who'll stop searching, follow the instructions in
this book, keep working on it, and finally speak English like a
native?
	How
much you'll succeed is up to you. Following the step-by-step
instructions in this book will get you off a good start, AND
persistence will give you success. Give yourself a chance to succeed
by taking action and giving yourself time to succeed. Now, follow my
proven Myfluentenglish Formula and take action to produce your
results! 

	What
you need to do is to take action today. The key word is today. Copy
my formula today and follow the exact same process I did before.
Start from today - I mean today, right now. Do exactly what I
did before. Take one action to start building your fluency today.
	You
only need to start from small and keep building.
	Can
you lift 100 kg? It's too heavy for most of us. Can you lift 2 kg?
Yes, you can. Let's start by lifting 2 kg today, 3 kg tomorrow, and
keep adding. By doing this, your muscles will continue to build, and
before you know it, you've already built enough muscles to effortless
lift  a weight that seemed impossible before!
	Started
at age 20 for six months, if I, a country boy, a middle school
dropout with no special talent, can learn to speak English like a
native, my friend, yes, you can!
	Take
action now and keep building!
	I
can lead a horse to water, but it's up to the horse to drink. I can
show you the door to speak English like a native, but it's up to you
to go in there and exit the other way. 

	Go
in! Go in there and exit the other way speaking English like a
native!









If you have any
questions, please send me an email at ken@myfluentenglish.com
to let me address them. Otherwise, I'd really appreciate it if you
would go to http://tinyurl.com/qqq6666
and leave an
Amazon customer review.









Congratulations!
	You
made it and are officially better than 99% people out there who want
to speak English like a native but didn't do anything!
 A
few times a month, I'll offer to send out something for free.
Sometimes they'll be free tips, and sometimes they can be a free
book.
	I
only accept 30 people at a time and I already have 12 awesome people
at the moment. 

	If
you're interested in joining the Fluent English Team, simply send me
an email at Ken@myfluentenglish.com
and use the subject line "Join the Fluent English Team."
	Thank
you so much, and I look forward to you being part of this exclusive
and group of passionate English learners.

©2015
	Ken
	Xiao.
	All Rights Reserved.
















