
























WALL








STREET








JOURNAL








BOOKS



















OTHER WALL STREET JOURNAL BOOKS



Breakaway: Small Business




World Business




Focus on Retirement




























A Wall Street Journal Book,



published by Simon & Schuster, Inc.


Rockefeller Center


1230 Avenue of the Americas


New York, NY 10020



Visit us on the World Wide Web:
www.SimonandSchuster.com



Copyright © 2001 by Dow Jones & Company, Inc.


All rights reserved, including the right of reproduction in whole or in part in any form.



The Wall Street Journal and the Wall Street Journal Book colophon are trademarks of Dow Jones & Company, Inc.



Cover design by Jennifer Heisey



ISBN-13: 978-0-743215169ISBN-10: 0-7432-1516-8



Portions of this text were previously published in The Wall Street Journal "Special Report" copyright © 2000 by Dow Jones & Company, Inc.












CONTENTS




  1  
A Head Start


  2  
Choice and Trust


  3  
Setting an Example


  4  
At Your Service


  5  
Talk Big; Win Big


  6  
The Web's Dirty Little Secret


  7  
The Ultimate Weapon


  8  
Getting Into Gear


  9  
Our Data, Ourselves


10   
Behind the Portal: What's Yahoo Up To?


11   
Compare and Contrast


12   
Living Off Bytes


13   
Don't Shoot!


14   
Stalled


15   
Clicks and Mortar


16   
Price Buster


17   
Euro-Bots


18   
Late to the Party


19   
Dad's Online Adventure


20   
Change of Tune


21   
That Old Spirit


22   
An Unfinished Story


23   
From a Call to a Click


24   
Home Advantage


25   
Roundtable: A Step Back


26   
Meet the Family


27   
A Matter of Degree


28   
Behind the Front Lines


29   
Shoot 'Em Out


30   
Lawyers vs. the Internet


31   
Photo Opportunity


32   
Banking On Change


33   
Hair Today, Hair Tomorrow


34   
Easy Doesn't Do It


35   
Returns to Sender


36   
How Technology Has Changed the Way We . . . Know Where We Are


37   
How Technology Has Changed the Way We . . . Die


38   
How Technology Has Changed the Way We . . . Deal With Our Doctors


39   
How Technology Has Changed the Way We . . . Stay in Touch With Family


40   
How Technology Has Changed the Way We . . . Attend Church


41   
How Technology Has Changed the Way We . . . Relate to Our Spouses


42   
How Technology Has Changed the Way We . . . Take Vacations


43   
How Technology Has Changed the Way We . . . Have Babies


44   
How Technology Has Changed the Way We . . . Are Fans


45   
How Technology Has Changed the Way We . . . Listen to the Radio


46   
How Technology Has Changed the Way We . . . Do Homework

















OTHER WALL STREET JOURNAL BOOKS



Breakaway: Small Business




World Business




Focus on Retirement














ONE

A Head Start


BY DAVID PRINGLE



April 17, 2000



When department-store company Karstadt-Quelle AG started an online shopping mall back in October 1996, Germany's retail industry raised a collective eyebrow.









After all, at that time, fewer than 750,000 German households had access to the World Wide Web, and the Internet was widely regarded as being only for teenage technology enthusiasts.


But things changed quickly, and by the end of 1997, five million Germans were online, according to Jupiter Communications, a New York-based research group, giving Karstadt a promising prospective market.


What was it that prompted the retail giant to rush into e-commerce so early—six weeks before it even got around to putting up a basic corporate Web site? Credit a combination of foresight and fear.


"It was very early for Germany, but we had known about the scenario in the U.S.," says Holger Pleines, manager of e-commerce at Karstadt. "And we had seen that we could have a problem in the future through Internet technology: The producer of items could sell direct to the customer, and we could lose revenue in our department stores."


That's been the good news for Karstadt and several other European retailers: Because Europe was about two years behind the U.S. in adopting the Internet as a retail channel, European retailers had a chance to see beforehand where things were headed. And with that glimpse of the future, they could try to steer it in their direction.


What's more, because there wasn't a lot of interest in Europe in 1997 in funding Internet start-ups, conventional retailers had a golden opportunity to lock out the start-ups before they could get going. "Venture-capital money was still relatively scarce," says Joe Sawyer, a senior analyst with Forrester Research Inc. in Cambridge, Mass., "and it was hard to conjure up a lot of excitement about Internet pure plays."


So, how well have these high-street retailers fared? Well, that's the bad-news part of the story: It seems many haven't been able to capitalize on the early start. Surveys conducted in January by London-based research firm MMXI Europe show that brick-and-mortar retailers own none of the 10 most-visited retail sites in the U.K. In Germany, two conventional retailers ranked in the top 10, and in France, three made the top tier. (Two of the top 10 online merchants in the U.S. are owned by conventional retailers, according to MMXI.)


Most of the leading retail sites in Europe either are owned by American Internet companies, notably Amazon.com Inc., or are run by local mail-order firms such as the U.K.'s Software Warehouse PLC, which founded the popular site Jungle.com.


Karstadt started early but had to relaunch its online mall, My-World.de., at the end of 1997 after consumers complained that its initial version was difficult to navigate. "Karstadt sunk a ton of money into doing their site over and over again," says Mr. Sawyer at Forrester.


My-World is only the 26th most-visited retail site in Germany, according to MMXI. Mr. Pleines won't disclose what proportion of Karstadt's sales currently come through My-World.de, which now stocks 1.2 million product lines. He says only, "It is rising fast from a small base."


Another retailer found that starting early was no guarantee of success. Nick Jones, a London-based analyst with Jupiter, says that U.K. retailer Argos Ltd. was selling online in early 1996, but the company's Web site offered only 12 product lines and sales were very slow. Argos has since increased its product range significantly, and sales have picked up.


Still, analysts say the brick-and-mortar companies in Europe are in a relatively strong position compared with their U.S. counterparts. Mr. Sawyer at Forrester says that traditional European retailers are neck-and-neck with the local dot-coms in terms of the quality of their online stores—though they trail the international dot-coms and local mail-order firms—while American retailers are still generally trying to catch up with the Internet start-ups.


What's more, a handful of European brick-and-mortar companies did benefit from getting onto the Web early. Book, video and computer retailer FNAC, owned by Pinault Printemps Redoute SA, made its Internet debut in 1997. It now has the 10th most popular retail site in France, according to MMXI Europe. Jean-Christophe Hermann, chief executive officer of FNAC.com, says the company sold $7 million of products through the Internet in 1999. Although this is a relatively small figure compared with sales by Web sites in other countries, only 16% of French adults use the Internet, according to International Data Corp., Framingham, Mass.


And U.K. grocer Tesco PLC, which started e-commerce trials over the Internet in 1996, says it sells more than $3 million of groceries a week online in the U.K. Orders average about $140, and Tesco, which levies an $8 delivery charge, says the profit margin on each delivery is 7% to 8%.


One drawback for Tesco is its service is still very limited in geographic terms. U.K. consumers can buy Tesco groceries online only if they live near one of the 145 stores from which the orders are fulfilled. More than 450 Tesco stores have yet to be brought into the scope of the service.


And Russell Craig, spokesman for Tesco, says it can take a year to persuade people to buy fresh food online. "One of the problems that we face is that in the beginning people will buy soap powder . . . but they won't buy fresh food such as meat and produce, which they like to touch and feel," he says. "It takes a lot of trust."


Mr. Pringle is a staff reporter with The Wall Street Journal's London bureau.













TWO

Choice and Trust


BY JOHN BUSKIN



April 17, 2000



Perhaps the keenest observer of public attitudes toward privacy in the 20th century is Alan Westin. Among his credentials: professor emeritus of public law and government at Columbia University; publisher of the journal Privacy & American Business; author of numerous books on privacy; member of many federal and state privacy commissions; and designer of more than 40 privacy surveys.


In all, Mr. Westin has spent more than four decades studying the public's attitude toward privacy. His conclusion about data collection online? Tell people you're doing it, and they won't mind.


In his research into privacy, Mr. Westin divides society into three camps whose membership he analyzes and measures. On the extremes are the Privacy Fundamentalists (25%) on one side and the Privacy Unconcerned (20%) at the other. He calls the 55% in the middle Privacy Pragmatists. They volunteer their personal data, but only after answering four basic questions: What's the benefit to me? What are the risks? What are the safeguards? Do I trust you?


When isolating Internet users, the 25% number for Privacy Fundamentalists rises to between 30% and 35%. In addition, "Net users are more activist in their refusals."


And as a result of media attention on stories like the DoubleClick situation, there is movement from the Pragmatist camp to the Fundamentalists.


Last November, however, Mr. Westin and Privacy & American Business completed a survey on Internet users' attitudes toward privacy for DoubleClick. A key conclusion the survey reached: Give people a choice, and they're not so fundamentalist. "More than two-thirds of Internet users (68%) say they would provide personal information in order to receive tailored banner ads, if notice and opt out are provided," the study concluded.


Mr. Westin stresses that "notice and choice" were critical to user agreement. In light of the survey's revelation, why did DoubleClick forge ahead independent of those conditions? Mr. Westin suggests, "They didn't understand the implications of the results."


Indeed, another poll designed by Mr. Westin confirms that consumers are more than willing to give up some personal data—as long as they have the choice to do so.


The poll, conducted by Harris Interactive and BusinessWeek, found an interesting schism. "Consumers think there's more data collection going on than there actually is," says Harris Interactive Senior Vice President David Krane, "but a low percentage of people feel victimized."


In another Westin-designed Harris poll, "a minority of consumers in three countries [the U.S., Germany and the U.K.] say they are interested in receiving marketing material," says Mr. Krane. "Yet, in far greater numbers, consumers view personalized marketing [for which cookies are essential] as 'a good thing.' "


As for the future, Mr. Westin says, "I don't believe pseudonymous transactions are where things are going. Trusted brands will begin to dominate the transactional landscape." But that will only result from companies engaging in "a set of activities that earn that trust."


One action he singles out as crucial is the corporate-wide hiring of high-level privacy officers. (The Double-Click editorial also publicized their recent hiring of a privacy officer.) And though Mr. Westin doesn't see eye to eye with most of those whom he labels Fundamentalists, he feels strongly that "you need impassioned people to alert society to dangerous trends. If the privacy activist did not exist, I would want to invent him."


He defines the pro-privacy forces as bipartisan and multi-ideological, and foresees "a roar of legislation" coming up.


Mr. Buskin is editor of dowjones.net, the intranet for Dow Jones & Company, publisher of The Wall Street Journal.













THREE

Setting an Example


BY LEE GOMES



April 17, 2000



The technology industry, that fountainhead of buzz phrases, has an expression to describe what happens when a company uses its own products. It's called, poetically enough, "eating your own dog food."









Most of the biggest names in the computer world are avid puppy-chow chompers. At Microsoft Corp., for example, software developers working on the next version of an operating system are required to use the product they are developing for their day-to-day computing needs. Cisco Systems Inc., which sells computer-networking equipment, is moving many of its business processes—and even some of its telephone system—onto its own in-house network.


Software maker Oracle Corp. is one of the latest companies to embrace doggie dining—and, like the other companies, it has good reason to do so. Oracle sells the software that big businesses, including Web sites, use to store their in-house business data; it also provides the consulting services used to get that software operational, an area that provides the bulk of its income. Over the past 18 months, Oracle has been trying to move customers to redesigned versions of its main products, allowing users access to information through standard Internet-style browsers rather than specially written software.


But if Oracle's customers should upgrade to the new software, shouldn't Oracle be using it, too? More significantly, if Oracle's customers should be using the software to dot-com themselves and exploit the Internet and e-commerce—a constant theme of Oracle's marketing—why wouldn't Oracle do the same?


Well, Larry Ellison, chief executive of the Redwood Shores, Calif., company, wants the world to know something: "We are eating our own dog food," he says, "and it tastes great!"


Over the past year, Oracle has undertaken a major effort to rework all of its computing operations—in the process changing much of the way it does business. The process is bringing new efficiencies to Oracle, but has not been without some bumps along the way.


Previously, Oracle had scores of computers all over the world storing its data in a system known as client-server computing—an approach that, just a few years ago, represented conventional wisdom about the kind of computer system a state-of-the-art company ought to have. In a typical client-server setup, computers were decentralized; each geographic region, for example, would have its own computer department running programs tailored to it. More often than not, these scattered operations didn't talk to each other, making it difficult to get a company-wide view of things.


Client-server evolved because companies wanted to take advantage of low-cost desktop personal computers and workstations to move away from their expensive mainframes. Now, things are coming full circle: As part of its big redesign, Oracle, for instance, is replacing dozens of its in-house computer systems with just two or three.


To make that happen, the company first had to build a data-communications network that would connect all of its scattered operations around the world. Mr. Ellison himself had a big hand in that project. It then had to move all of its record keeping to the latest versions of Oracle's software, which work in connection with browsers.


The overall goal was to put as much of the company's internal software as possible on a single internal corporate network, so that each of the company's 43,000 employees in more than 100 countries could ask a question and all get the same answer. In other words, Oracle itself should operate as much as possible like the Internet, whose very growth is fueling a huge increase in Oracle's own sales and stock price.


"We are doing this to gain all the benefits of moving to an e-business model," says Gary Roberts, who as Oracle's senior vice president for global information technology has responsibility for much of the effort. The project will also help "prove to the world that our products work," he says.


Mr. Roberts says that a big part of Oracle's drive involved paring back the number of disparate inhouse computer systems. The company once had nearly 100 different kinds of machines handling e-mail. Soon, it will just have two. And where Oracle had more than 80 programs to track the work of its sales force, it will soon just have five.


That means substantial savings. Simplifying the e-mail system alone, for example, slashes the number of trouble calls his technicians have to make to 300 a month from 3,500. And rather than requiring a staff of 60 to keep e-mail running, Oracle now gets by with just a dozen. Mr. Ellison says Oracle is trying to squeeze as much as $500 million in costs out of its operations through the cutbacks.


There are other benefits, among them easier access to information. In the past, simple questions, such as "How many people work at Oracle?" were surprisingly difficult to answer. Someone would, by hand, have to query dozens of databases all around the world, enter the results in a spreadsheet, then add the numbers up. Now, there is a single human-resources database that has an up-to-date employee count at all times.


Another benefit involves basic financial reporting. The company once spent a week or two after each quarter figuring out what its sales had been. Now, it expects to be able to close its books within a few days after each quarter. Mr. Roberts says it will be much easier for managers to know about sales levels even while a quarter is under way.


"It takes a lot of stress out of knowing how well we are doing while the quarter is under way," he says.


Little wonder many of the changes are popular with Oracle employees. Consider expense statements. In the old system, an employee returning from a business trip would submit a traditional expense report on paper, along with all the accompanying receipts. The form would be reviewed by the employee's supervisors, and then by a series of people in various accounting departments. Reimbursements could take six weeks.


Now, the report is written on the employee's computer using a form accessed through a browser and then submitted via the company's intranet. Supervisors review it on their own browsers, and send it along electronically to accounts payable. Reimbursement checks arrive within five days.


To be sure, Oracle's effort hit some snags along the way, not least its own bureaucratic resistance to the new way of doing things. And the company had to be sensitive to national-sovereignty issues when closing data centers overseas—it didn't want anyone to think it was reducing its commitment to foreign markets. To show that this was a company-wide effort, the first data centers to be shuttered were all in the U.S.


But none of this was enough to derail the project, which Mr. Roberts says is on track to be finished in the next few months.


"We are completely reinventing how we do business as a company," he says. "In the Oracle of a few years ago, if I was an executive vice president of a region, I was like the CEO of my own company. Everyone was reporting to me. Now, we have changed the entire model, and that always brings difficulty."


Of course, many people would find it ironic that a company like Oracle, which is in the database business, would have been itself so badly organized that it couldn't until now easily say what its headcount was.


"Yeah, I know," says Mr. Roberts. "It's ridiculous."


Mr. Gomes is a staff reporter in The Wall Street Journal's San Francisco bureau.













FOUR

At Your Service


BY GEORGE ANDERS



April 17, 2000



Every day, Amazon.com Inc. hears from more than 20,000 customers with a problem. Books that were ordered online haven't shown up yet. A cute new toy didn't turn out to be so cute after all. Meanwhile, some first-time visitors to Amazon's Web site can't figure out how to place an order.









On the fourth floor of the Decatur Building in downtown Seattle, more than 200 customer-service representatives try to put things right. They deal with a nonstop stream of e-mails, calls and letters, tracking down warehouse glitches and coaching new users on the basics of online shopping.


The trusty phrases "Thank you" and "We apologize" are invoked again and again. When things get ugly, Amazon's customer-service reps are authorized to waive shipping charges and placate shoppers with gift certificates of $10 or more.


Even in traditional industries, getting customer service right is a tricky task. That's doubly true in the world of electronic commerce, where merchants and customers never see each other and end up doing business linked only by a computer connection. That increases the odds of communications mix-ups and angry outbursts. What's more, many e-commerce companies are growing so fast that customer traffic far outstrips their ability to handle shipping, payment and related issues reliably every time.


Yet Amazon founder Jeff Bezos gambled several years ago that if his company could deliver standout customer service, it could become the leading Internet merchant without offering the lowest prices. As a result, Amazon has rapidly expanded its customer-service department, hiring even in January when other parts of the company endured layoffs for the first time in Amazon's five-year history.


So far, that bet has paid off. Amazon has more than 17 million customers, the most of any consumer-oriented Internet merchant. Amazon's prices for books are only the sixth-lowest among 14 major online merchants, according to Gomez Advisors Inc., Lincoln, Mass., which publishes Internet shopping guides. But Gomez rates Amazon as the best overall online bookstore, mostly because of its strong showing in service-oriented categories such as customer confidence and ease of use.


In a company as automated as Amazon, the customer-service department is a curious mix of modern technology, traditional factory methods and old-fashioned hand-holding. Bill Price, Amazon's head of customer service, is a former Navy officer who talks a lot about "metrics" and "rigorous evaluation criteria." Yet as much as he tries to turn customer service into a series of simple routines, he acknowledges that the most important parts of the job can't be mechanized at all.


"To do this job right, you need a real passion for the consumer," Mr. Price says. "At a company like this, we're the only heartbeat that customers ever hear." Some of his most successful hires, he says, are former teachers and social workers, who empathize well with frustrated consumers. That helps head off what otherwise could be nasty disputes.


Inside the Decatur building, Amazon runs the New Economy's equivalent of an auto-plant production line. Long rows of gray cubicles stretch across a vast open floor. Inside the cubicles, service representatives perch before computer terminals, writing one e-mail after another. (While some customers do contact Amazon by phone, the vast majority of complaints come in electronically.) New recruits in Seattle earn about $10.50 an hour. Experienced representatives who take on low-level management tasks may make as much as $16 an hour.


As customers' complaints come up on representatives' screens, routine responses are rapidly assembled from a library of 1,400 pre-scripted remarks, or "blurbs." These are customized with the customer's name and a few other details, and then sent out electronically so that the next problem can be dealt with. There are blurbs to address almost every conceivable issue, from the most common complaint of "Where's my stuff?" to such unusual gripes as: "There's a hostile [or obscene] book review posted on the Amazon Web site and I want it purged."


In fact, says Amazon representative Marisa Cameja, there are two pre-set responses for the obscene-review complaint. One form thanks the customer for writing and promises to expunge the offensive review in a hurry. The other thanks the customer for writing and explains that Amazon is committed to letting users post a wide range of reviews, even ones that other customers might not agree with. Service representatives are supposed to use their own good judgment in deciding how offensive the review really is—and then pick the appropriate form.


Two seats down from Ms. Cameja, service rep Ben Morgan deals with a slightly offbeat version of the classic "Where's my stuff?" complaint. An English customer ordered "The Texas Chainsaw Massacre" a month ago and is indignant because she still hasn't received the cult video. Such delays are unusually long, Mr. Morgan tells a visitor. But he isn't quite ready to decide that the order has been lost.


He sends the customer a form note saying that waits of up to 21 days are customary (and thanking her for writing). Later he says that if she still doesn't have her video in a week, Amazon will probably send her a replacement, free of charge.


Many of the e-mails reaching Mr. Morgan's screen are packed full of testy or even abusive comments. But Mr. Morgan says he has learned not to take such vitriol personally. "If people want to vent, so be it," he says. "It's not my place to argue about how people feel about something. It's my job to educate them so they won't feel that way next time."


Besides, Mr. Morgan says, even the bad days at Amazon are an improvement from his previous job as a grocery-store stock clerk lugging heavy loads and opening boxes with a razor. "This is more fun, and it pays better," he says. "Plus, it's less dangerous."


Amazon says many of its customer-service workers are promoted to other jobs at the company, but it says the department's overall turnover rate is well below the 50% to 120% a year that's typical for telemarketing and comparable customer-service jobs in traditional industries.


The current turnover level, Mr. Price says, is about what he wants. "You can have too low an attrition rate," he explains, "where you don't change the work force and reps become complacent." At other companies, some of the customer-service units with the lowest turnover have become strong union shops. Amazon's customer-service department, like all the rest of the company, is nonunionized.


When service representatives solve especially messy problems, they get a "CPR" certificate from the quality-assurance department, acknowledging a "customer permanently retained."


In a similar form of recognition last year, Amazon management handed out hundreds of tiny green ceramic turtles to top service representatives. Unhappy customers are like upside-down turtles, explains Susan Robinson, an Amazon service manager: "They want to get back on their feet, but they don't know how to do it. That's where we come in."


Recently, for example, service representative Ursula Schweiger got an e-mail complaining that shopping at Amazon wasn't fun anymore. "When you were young, fresh and only into books, deliveries were rapid," the customer wrote. "Now I'm selling my stock, because I can see your new future: slow, cumbersome and less agile because of size."


Ms. Schweiger wrote back, apologizing for a shipping delay and offering a refund of $5.85 in shipping charges. For once, there wasn't an in-house blurb to address the customer's indignation. Improvising her own response, Ms. Schweiger wrote, "Yes, we are getting bigger, but the commitment of this company to customer service is the best I've ever seen. Your feedback is extremely important to us." The customer wrote back to say thanks—and Ms. Schweiger got a CPR certificate.


Not all problems can be fixed. "We have a lot of stuff at our disposal," says Andrew Cavanaugh, an Amazon service manager, "but time is the one thing we don't have. If something happened so that a present didn't arrive for Christmas, there's very little we can do to fix that."


And in some cases, customer-service goals succumb to other Amazon priorities. Last year, service representatives noticed they were getting complaints from people who had used the company's "one-click" ordering option—and inadvertently bought items they didn't want.


Service agents helped arrange free returns of those items, but they wondered whether the one-click service could be reworked to avoid those problems. The answer was: No. Senior Amazon officials believed that the extra revenue and convenience of one-click were too valuable to be undermined.


But in other cases, a simple apology or a rebate gets things back on track. Mr. Morgan, the customer-service representative, smiles as he opens an e-mail from a New York City woman who had been indignant a few weeks earlier when her order for a $5.99 paperback was saddled with $3.99 in shipping charges. Another Amazon representative had waived the shipping charges—and the woman wrote a follow-up note saying that she now liked Amazon and had placed three more orders.


"Look at that," Mr. Morgan tells a visitor. "Waiving a $3.99 charge is nothing to us. But to a customer, it makes things right again. She comes away happy. And she may even allow us another mistake in the future."


Mr. Anders, a former reporter in The Wall Street Journal's San Francisco bureau, is now a senior editor at Fast Company magazine.













FIVE

Talk Big; Win Big


BY KARA SWISHER



April 17, 2000



It was somewhere between the Web site that raised $20 million in cash to tell you how to carve a turkey and the one that gives you a glorified online message inbox—that sold for $850 million in stock—that I began to suspect that I am in the wrong business.









Nice ideas both, but this is a lot to pay for information that, in the first instance, I have been able to get from my uncle at almost every major holiday. And his advice is free—indeed, he foists it upon anyone near the bird with a knife in hand and expects not a cent for the effort. He'll also volunteer—just as eHow.com does—how to remove oil and grease stains from clothes. Nobody's throwing money at him yet.


Same thing for Onebox.com, which is worth a fortune presumably because it gives people voice mail, e-mail and faxes in one convenient place. The receptionist at my office does that too, at a fraction of the cost.


How did they do it, I wondered, these two Internet companies and so many others—so newborn that if they were babies you might have to slap their bottoms to get them breathing? Was it the genius of their ideas? Was it their persistence and tenacity as entrepreneurs? Was it alchemy that allowed them to turn seemingly simple-minded ideas into giants of Wall Street?


Or was it simply their ability to talk a good game? Noodling on their sites, I noticed their deftness with the way they described their businesses.


Onebox, for instance, wasn't simply an under-whelming little online inbox, but "the communications application service provider (CASP) meeting the global demand for wireless and Internet-based messaging." And more: "With a highly scalable, highly reliable pure IP infrastructure, Onebox.com provides services for phone carriers, ISPs and Internet portals to provide millions of customers worldwide with e-mail, voicemail and wireless applications."


And eHow, "the site that provides a fast and easy way to do just about anything and buy all the products or services needed to get it done," was also swinging around the phrase "contextual commerce," a term that deserves a major prize for its likely role in adding $23 million to the valuation of the company.


I began to wonder that since writing was my profession and creativity my stock-in-trade, why couldn't I do this too? Couldn't I create a series of Internet companies that would attract the attention of money-laden venture capitalists looking to lay down their onerous load of loot? As one of my colleagues once noted, "There are not enough rat holes in Silicon Valley to shove all that investment money into." I could accommodate them, of course, and also prove that there is hope for all the English majors who did not think their degree counted for much.


Thus, my list of five ideas. If you really think about them, they will change the way we do business in this new millennium, represent a major paradigm shift in the delivery of services to consumers world-wide, aid in facilitating end-to-end solutions for the deployment of Internet applications, be a driving force in consumer-to-consumer e-commerce, leverage the technologies, content and market reach to foster rapid growth and industry leadership across the network and, um, make me a big pile of dough.


1. Zoomeat.com

A highly targeted buying community in the fast-exploding business-to-business space, this site unites mammal-restricting enterprises and suppliers to streamline business processes, enhance productivity and reduce costs by offering a one-stop shop for zoo feeding supplies. No longer do animal handlers looking to satisfy rabid carnivores and those with raw meat by the ton have to be trapped by the vagaries and confusion of imperfect markets. Along with creating the market for any kind of meat or vegetable needed, the site also provides chat rooms to address the concerns of zookeepers world-wide with such popular areas as "The Lion's Den," "Tusk Talk" and "Monkeying Around"; links to other zoo-related products such as "Never-Tear" chain-link fences; and other important zoo-related content such as the report on the latest hippo rage. In addition, Zoomeat.com engineers have created a patented "demand-driven" system that allows consumers to use the Web to more perfectly time their feeding schedules with remote e-mail notification to avoid that errant chomp by hungry lions or birds of prey.


The e-commerce opportunities are obvious—including fees for transactions, leads and related services, such as cobra insurance. In addition, we also plan to sue anyone who copies our new e-commerce system, even though this kind of idea has been kicking around the retail world since primates first traded nuts and berries. There are also plentiful branding opportunities, including placing Zoomeat.com branded coolers outside of the most visited cages with the logo:"Where the elite with four feet MEAT to eat."


2. Frictionshopping.com

The idea is simple—painfully simple. Commerce on the Internet is becoming too easy and frictionless, leading consumers to buy things they really don't want, price shop at different sites and return unwanted merchandise. We believe that shopping should be hard work, much as it is in the real world. Only if you really have to struggle and sweat to get an item can you enjoy it. We provide a free downloadable plug-in—which we expect to be distributed to 345 million users by next week—that will transform any frictionless e-commerce site into a sluggish, high-friction site where you can struggle for hours before completing an order.


The most obvious way to monetize the site is to leverage this frustration with a seamless barrage of contextual advertising and commerce offerings (pain medication, psychiatry services, upgrades of existing systems for users who think the fault lies in their crappy computer systems). But other opportunities exist in the ability to create vibrant communities of complainers, offering a range of paid interactive services, such as message boards, chat and, eventually, live voice links. In addition, we can expect offline retailers, eager to stick any pin in the Web's overblown balloon, will pay substantial fees to facilitate the distribution of our software.


3. Sit-I-Said-Sit.com

Why spend untold dollars on training services that require you to wake up early on weekends, trek to some distant park and get grass stains on your khakis, with the only result being that your dog completely ignores your every word but pays rapt attention to some teacher with an attitude and a way with a whistle? Instead, we propose to collapse the entire obedience-school hierarchy by giving end users the ability to train their pets online as the leading provider of canine e-learning solutions on a global basis. By incorporating proprietary software with a suite of hands-on applications and an easy-to-use interface, the site will walk users and their pets through a step-by-step guide to behavior modification. Instead of an owner's ineffective "Sit!," "Come!" and "Stay!" requests that a dog will never obey, state-of-the-art multimedia streaming technology (available on our shopping channel) will bark commands from strategically placed stereo speakers (available on our shopping channel) with the aid of high-definition monitors (available on our shopping channel).


The business plan's main draw is its reliance on constantly returning users who can't control their dogs without the aid of the computer, who are thus the perfect aim for targeted ads and other e-commerce possibilities. In addition, it is likely that customers will respond well to upselling of portable wireless devices to download the service in order to actually go outside with their pets. The brand has endless extensions throughout the pet-loving world, including related sites, such as Herekittycat.com, Goldfishtricks.com and Hamsterdance.com. (Note: This site is already taken and is quite popular, so we expect to pay $34 million of the funds we obtain from our initial public offering to purchase the domain name.)


4. Pickupthedrycleaning.com

The emergence of niche portals is a clear area of growth as users begin to separate themselves into ever more specific genres. While sites aimed specifically at women and various racial, ethnic and sexual-preference groups are growing fast, it is time to really slice the onion as thin as we can with a portal aimed at helping those whose precious free hours are sucked up with time-consuming tasks that have to be done or else. Employing an Internet-based joint scheduling service and a real-time auction mechanism, the site is the first electronic barter trade network for harried husbands and wives who create a noncash market for really annoying errands. By allowing, for example, one user to offer to pick up the dry cleaning one week in exchange for another participant agreeing to take the car to be washed and buffed this week, the system seamlessly matches bid and asked offers for the drudgery market.


The ability for such a market to generate revenue is multifaceted, including adding a multitude of preferred vendors to the site who pay fees to upsell their services. In addition, the time savings give users more freedom to pursue a range of recreational opportunities, allowing the site to link them for a fee to those services. Once again, brand extension is key with definite B2B possibilities, such as work-oriented sites like Sodafetch.com and Fixtheprinter.com, where employees trade a variety of office errands.


5. Hotdonutstogo.com

Hot. Doughnuts. To go. On the Web. It's a riveting combination. With the success of the online delivery service Kozmo.com and the prospect of a billion-dollar valuation for the kind of service local Chinese restaurants have been doing very well for years, thank you, it is time to develop more specified delivery service to appeal to an increasingly small segment of society living in an incredibly narrow geographical space. Thus, we propose a Web-based hot-doughnut delivery service that will aim only at one really hungry guy in Apartment 2E at 821 E. 54th St. in New York, only between the hours of 1:30 a.m. and 2 a.m. on Wednesdays. By taking the concept of personalization to its most minute level, we think we can create an entire suite of Web sites to serve a single person's every single need at an occasional given moment of the week.


The business plan is to eventually have at least 234 Web sites each devoted to every man, woman and child on the planet, resulting in billions upon billions of Internet locations. We expect to be able to take all of these sites public, which will generate so such wealth that we will make Bill Gates look like a pauper—which, by the way, has been the real point of the entire Internet revolution.


Ms. Swisher writes The Wall Street Journal's weekly "Boom Town" column.













SIX

The Web's Dirty Little Secret


BY JOHN BUSKIN



April 17, 2000



The Web has spawned all manner of new mouse-traps, from online auctions to name-your-price bazaars to click-here/win-money search engines.


The most profitable Web industry, however, is a first cousin to the world's oldest profession.









Web surfers—in large numbers—pay lots of money for online pornography, the secret success story of cyberspace.


Whether the subject infuriates or thrills, raises indignation at the lowness of society's moral limbostick or exaltation at vaporizing every last impediment to human expression, adult content is on the Web to stay. And, by any standard, adult sites constitute one of the best businesses on the Web.


David Card, a researcher at New York-based Jupiter Communications, characterizes the industry as "way overhyped," pointing out that these companies are, by and large, privately owned and have no public reporting responsibilities. But he acknowledges pornography as "the single biggest category of paid online content." He pegs last year's online porn market in the U.S.—conservatively—at $175 million in revenue.


The estimates go up from there. According to an October 1998 brief from Forrester Research Inc., a Cambridge, Mass., research firm, online pornography pulled in revenue of $750 million to $1 billion world-wide in 1998. The brief goes on to say that "at least three of the largest sites—actually networks of several URLs—have gross incomes of $100 million to $150 million annually, mostly from subscriptions." Forrester says it validated its numbers by checking figures from credit-card-processing services that cover Web transactions.


Mark Tiarra, president of the industry group United Adult Sites, offers an "educated guess" that there are close to 200,000 adult sites on the Web. Of those, he estimates, "there are perhaps 15 to 20 'players' in this business who see revenue in excess of $12 million per year." The rest of the market, he says, is made up of everything from small sites that generate less than $1,000 per month to medium-size sites approaching $1 million a year.


All that business comes without the respectability that sites with much more ephemeral popularity are afforded. Many entre-porn-eurs are shivering with dot-com fever and want to take their businesses public. So far—thanks to their content—they haven't been able to (though the publicly traded Playboy empire is, of course, represented on the Web).


Porn retailers argue that they don't deserve to be IPO pariahs. They're no different than any dot-com company, they say (except, of course, that they bring in money). They describe energetic plans for expansion—from franchising schemes to porn-subsidized breakthroughs in online technology—and some even think that porn will be where new standards emerge for the Web's audio-video architecture.


"These are guys in business suits, not trench coats," says David Marshlack, a Tampa entrepreneur and president of CandidCam, which offers several pornographic sites.


Bill Asher, president of the adult-film company Vivid On Demand, Van Nuys, Calif., thinks the mammoth demand for online pornography will force the industry to be accepted. "It was evil," he says. "Now it's a necessary evil."


Skeptical? Those who agree point to history. Pornography has a track record of benefiting from new technologies—and, at least anecdotally, giving those technologies a boost right back.


Blame Thomas Edison. According to the Library of Congress Web site, Edison's flickering, 18-second Kiss "was the most popular Edison Vitascope film in 1896." In a contemporary film-exhibition catalog, the movie is described as an "osculatory performance" and ranked as "the most popular subject ever shown."


Though preposterously tame by today's standards, what isn't? It wasn't art that viewers were flocking to, it was a man and woman kissing. That cinematic clinch may have influenced movie history, too.


This was a time when Edison's Kinetoscopes—which individuals would view through Nickelodeon-like boxes—were being supplanted by his Vitascopes—which were projected in front of whole audiences at vaudeville shows. The first Kinetoscope parlor had opened in 1894. Projected films, like Vitascopes, began putting the parlors out of business within a year. Arguably, Kiss contributed to the speed of the transition in formats.


More recently, we've seen transitions from kinescope to videotape, from film to VHS and currently from VHS to DVD. Though adult content didn't play a major role in those developments, it's commonly bandied about that X-rated material was the sub rosa engine fueling the rise of the VCR and the growth of the video rental business.


Mr. Asher pegs the X-rated rental rate as "at least 60%" of the market; others cite numbers closer to 40%.


Robert Liaug, director of research for the Video Softwear Dealers Association, an industry group based in Encino, Calif., estimates that 20% to 25% of all rentals are adult videos. "There are a significant number of retailers who are still in business because of adult video," he says.


Still, while those developments brought increases in volume, they didn't bring porn out of the back of the store. But online entrepreneurs think that the Web will bring such an increase in volume that people will have to pay attention.


Today, those who are engaged in migrating adult video to the Web claim that they are already sounding the death knell for the business adult content so recently helped spawn: video rentals. The specific executioners, they say, are the Web's ability to broadcast live video in real time (with a simultaneous communication channel to talk to the actors) and, when it arrives, video on demand. Porn giveth, porn taketh away.


"Video streams are what everyone wants," says Al Goldstein, the founder of Screw magazine, which now has a home on the Web. "I wouldn't want to have stock in Blockbuster."


Thirty years ago, Mr. Goldstein says, Screw magazine cost 25 cents and had a circulation of 190,000. "I was a candy store," he says. "Now I'm like Ray Kroc."


Mr. Goldstein says his site—which charges a subscription fee of $19.95 a month for a variety of video feeds, escort-service ads, films, games, jokes, stories, pictures, etc., and an archive of past issues of Screw—gets 200,000 hits a day. "Usage is steadily increasing at as much as 25% a week," he reports, adding that 61% of subscriptions are from outside the U.S.


"The Web has been the most exhilarating experience in the world," he says. "The numbers are a pleasure. I never made money like this before. If I double my subscription base, I don't have to go back to the printer."


This despite serious limitations in technology. Currently, most video streamed live on the Web is about as clear as the Zapruder film. The answer, as it is for any entertainment site that wants to show movies live online, is a bigger pipeline that lets movies travel faster to a consumer's monitor. The difference with porn sites, entrepreneurs say, is that they've already gotten people to pay for lower-quality images, so imagine what they could charge when a wider pipeline shows up.


In fact, Mr. Asher, of Vivid On Demand, sees a future where porn could subsidize that bigger pipe. His idea: offer people a subscription to an adult video-on-demand cable service, and charge enough to give them a free connection to the Internet. "We're working with mainstream companies who want to be deliverers," says Mr. Asher, who declines to name them.


Nonetheless, if Vivid wasn't already so big, mainstream companies might not be interested. Vivid currently runs the No. 1 and No. 3 pay-per-view cable services, the Hot Network and the Hot Zone. (No. 2 is the Playboy Channel—where Mr. Asher previously worked—and No. 4 is Spice.) On the Web, Vivid charges subscribers $60 a month, and claims between 50,000 and 100,000 customers globally.


"The Web infused new cash up and down the industry," Mr. Asher says. "It created a lot of opportunity that didn't exist previously. Expect total sales to increase dramatically—it wouldn't be unusual to see the business 20 times as big."


Mr. Marshlack, of CandidCam, endorses that vision. "Broadband is definitely going to put a beating on X-rated video rentals," he says. "We're ready for broadband." Currently, he claims, his company has the largest independent data-stream capacity in the Southeast U.S. (His bandwidth is aggregated from a variety of sources.)


Mr. Marshlack believes the Web will be streaming video at 30 frames a second in five years—a boon for his sites, such as his flagship, Voyeurdorm, a variation of the popular MTV series "The Real World" ("55 Hidden Cameras, 7 Women, 1 House, 24 Hours, 7 Days a Week, All Year Round!!").


In all, Mr. Marshlack's company, which employs 65 technicians, controls 180 live Webcams in 10 locations including Los Angeles, San Francisco, Amsterdam and Tampa; he resells the feed to smaller entrepreneurs, who promote and advertise their own sites, and share with his company whatever fees they make. This structure is useful because it splits off the technology component of the business—with its expensive hardware and 24/7 maintenance needs—from the content side. That way, the tech side can distribute other content that wouldn't be available if porn were more closely attached to it. (Mr. Marshlack split off a company from CandidCam called City-Guide.com, which offers hosting, site maintenance and Web-design services. City-Guide hosts sites for the Tampa Bay Buccaneers of the NFL and Hooters restaurants, among others.)


Currently, he says, between 130 and 140 of the cams are licensed to more than 3,000 sites globally. Last year, according to Mr. Marshlack, CandidCam made $10 million. (After visiting Mr. Marshlack's adult sites, you can atone. He also maintains a site called liveprayer.com.)


Franchising is also a big part of Seth Warshavsky's business. His company, Internet Entertainment Group of Seattle, runs a site called Club Love that he says draws 500,000 unique visitors daily and has 100,000 subscribers at $30 per month. (One of his current projects is a plan to stream a video feed of a live sex-change operation.) He also sells his content to smaller entrepreneurs. And he agrees that "the distribution vehicles will subsidize the infrastructure to get it in place."


If online pornography has its suit-and-tie guys, it also has Deep Thinkers. Penthouse founder Bob Guccione thinks online sex will change not only e-commerce, but also our lives.


"The computer will result in evolutionary changes," he says. "It will palpably, physically infiltrate every aspect of our lives. There will be a lot more virtual sex."


Maybe so. But if you like yours a little old-fashioned, you can view Kiss on the Web today in the American Memory area of the Library of Congress Web site at http://memory.loc.gov/ammem/edhtml/edmvhm.html.


Pucker up.


Mr. Buskin is editor of dowjones.net, the intranet for Dow Jones & Company, publisher of The Wall Street Journal.













SEVEN

The Ultimate Weapon


BY SCOTT THURM



April 17, 2000



Before launching their Web site, before raising their first million dollars, the founders of CoolSavings.com Inc. in 1995 sought a potentially more valuable asset for a young Internet company: a patent. Shortly after receiving the patent in June 1998, CoolSavings put it to use. It sued nine other companies, also in the business of distributing coupons and promotions via the Internet, for infringement.









Those lawsuits quickly became the opening salvos in a multifront war. Three rivals of CoolSavings acquired patents of their own and countersued. And Henry Von Kohorn, an 86-year-old man in Florida, joined the fray, claiming he had invented electronic distribution of coupons in the 1980s. Mr. Von Kohorn sued five market contenders, including CoolSavings.


Now, executives in the crowded market grouse that they spend as much time managing lawsuits as running their rapidly growing businesses.


"It's like the old days of the Cold War and mutually assured destruction," says Mike Scroggie, a co-founder of Catalina Marketing Corp., St. Petersburg, Fla., which has filed two countersuits against CoolSavings. "It's actually out of control."


That's a common complaint from Internet companies today, as rivals rush to the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office to certify their latest innovations. Those smart, or lucky, enough to have obtained patents for which they applied four or five years ago increasingly wield them as weapons to prohibit others from employing the same technology. The disputes involve the biggest names in electronic commerce. Amazon.com Inc., the Seattle-based online retailer, for instance, has won a court order barring New York rival Barnes & Noble.com Inc. from using its patented "one-click" checkout system, which allows a shopper to place an order with a single tap of the mouse, instead of re-entering billing information. Priceline.com Inc., the Stamford, Conn., Internet discount retailer, wants to stop Microsoft Corp.'s Expedia unit from using "reverse auctions," in which buyers name their price and sellers decide whether to take the bid, to fill airplane seats and hotel rooms.


Statistics suggest many more legal scuffles lie ahead. The Patent and Trademark Office, in Arlington, Va., issued a single patent in 1995 for what it now calls "Internet-related business methods." Last year, the total grew to 301. The number of applications is doubling annually; it takes two to three years, on average, to obtain a patent.


To critics, these patents, and the disputes they spawn, are evidence of a system run amok, rewarding "inventors" for doing nothing more than devising Web-based versions of well-established business practice, or for trivial advances in technology. The proliferation of Internet-related patents, they complain, will wind up restricting the use of some fairly simple and universal ideas, making it harder for e-commerce to flourish.


"You can't describe these Internet patents as anything but theft," says Tim O'Reilly, founder and chief executive of the technology publisher O'Reilly & Associates Inc., Sebastopol, Calif. "It's a fundamentally destructive approach to innovation."


Not so, insist patent holders. Mark Ogram says three programmers at his company, Net MoneyIN Inc., took six months to devise an e-commerce credit-card verification service for small merchants. Now he's not shy about asserting the patent awarded in 1998 to his Tucson, Ariz., company, which provides financial services for the Web.


"It's like any invention. Once you see it, it's simple," says Mr. Ogram, himself a patent attorney and one-time software engineer. Net MoneyIN has sent letters demanding royalties to 12 companies providing payment services, to little effect thus far. The company also has lawsuits pending against two of the companies. A patent is like a piece of property, Mr. Ogram argues. "These people are using our house to sleep in. They should at least pay us."


Patents are supposed to encourage innovation by offering an incentive: the legal monopoly to make use of an invention for a limited time. But each wave of invention—from bicycles to aircraft—has been accompanied by concern that the granting of exclusive rights to patent holders would discourage competition and ultimately retard innovation.


Patents and the Internet are a particularly volatile mix. Because it's much cheaper and easier to copy Internet technology than to build an auto or aircraft factory, the legal protections of a patent can be that much more important in cyberspace. And because readily available capital has led to a flowering of Web companies built around a single idea—such as Price-line's reverse auctions—an entrepreneur is apt to guard that idea with singular jealousy.


Adding further tension: Most of the software developed before the mid-1980s wasn't patented, making it difficult for examiners to determine whether an idea is truly novel.


"Fortunes are being bet and made on technologies and practices that may or may not have any basis in law," says Lisa Allen, a senior analyst at Forrester Research Inc., Cambridge, Mass.


Patents have become key marketing tools in obtaining financing and, ultimately, customers. For some, merely applying for a patent is enough.


In September, dotNow Corp., Des Moines, Iowa, wrote letters to nine companies with Web interests, including software giant Microsoft, Redmond, Wash., and Internet-service provider America Online Inc., Dulles, Va., warning that it had applied for a patent for what it does: provide advertiser-supported "free" Internet service. Then the company put out a press re-lease "alerting" investors that rivals may ultimately owe royalties to dotNow.


In an interview, dotNow Chief Executive Ed Andrews says he is looking forward to "absolute ownership in a multibillion-dollar market." But it may be years before dotNow receives a patent. To do so, it will have to persuade the Patent Office that no one else had thought of an advertiser-financed Internet service before mid-1998, when dotNow applied for the patent. Mr. Andrews says dotNow sent the letters because it has a "provisional" patent, but a spokeswoman for the Patent and Trademark Office says it doesn't issue provisional patents.


The stakes can be large for Internet companies. Losing an important patent can leave a company vulnerable to unexpected competition. Infringing on another's patent could force a company to change its business and pay millions of dollars in damages. "Any ruling or legislation that reduces the validity or enforceability of our patents will seriously harm our business," CoolSavings warned potential investors in a January filing for its anticipated initial public offering.


More recently, some players in the Internet-patent debate are having second thoughts. Patent officials vow tougher reviews and more thorough literature searches for Internet-related applications.


In addition, Amazon founder and Chief Executive Jeff Bezos has suggested that software and Internet patents should have a shorter term than other patents, and should be subject to public comment before they are issued. (He posted his comments on Amazon's Web site after a month-long exchange, conducted largely by e-mail, with Mr. O'Reilly. The discussion was triggered by antipatent comments posted on the publisher's Web site.)


"I now believe it's possible that the current rules governing business methods and software patents could end up harming all of us," Mr. Bezos wrote.


Anyone watching the free-for-all over patents for Internet-related coupons would have difficulty arguing. Tom Scavone, an attorney for CoolSavings, says company officials felt they had no alternative but to sue, after seeing other sites using technology protected by their patent. "Innovation is a risky business," he says. "They want to protect their investment."


But CoolSavings may not have been prepared for the response. Although three of its targets have settled, one of them, emaildirect Inc., Aliso Viejo, Calif., claims to have won favorable terms, with the company's president, Gary Brooks, saying in a news release that the company obtained a license from CoolSavings that "didn't cost us anything." (On the other hand, emaildirect's chief financial officer, Sandy Brooks, says the suit consumed a chunk of her time for several months and hindered the company's efforts to arrange a new round of financing.)


Others are fighting back. BrightStreet.com Inc., Mountain View, Calif., which makes software to create promotions and coupons, filed papers with the Patent Office challenging CoolSavings's patent, claiming it had developed some of the same ideas first. CoolSavings is "using patents as a way to market themselves and bully other people," says Scott Wills, BrightStreet's chief executive.


Kamran Amjadi, chief executive of e-centives Inc., Bethesda, Md., deplores the trend toward Internet-related patents. Nonetheless, his company is among the three companies that, after being sued by CoolSavings, obtained patents of their own and filed countersuits. He says he felt he had no choice. "When one company starts using land mines, ultimately you have to start protecting yourself, and you come up with land mines yourself," he says.


In at least two cases, CoolSavings sued not just its rivals in the coupon business, but companies that do business with them. As part of a July 1999 settlement with CoolSavings, the female-oriented Web site iVillage Inc., New York, agreed to stop doing business with a subsidiary of Catalina Marketing. A suit is pending against Brodbeck Enterprises Inc., which operates the Dick's Supermarkets chain in Wisconsin and offers coupons through Planet U Inc., San Francisco, another Internet-promotions site.


Mr. Scavone says CoolSavings sued iVillage and Brodbeck because they were "active participants" in infringing on CoolSavings's patents. "We're not in the business of bullying people," he says. "We're in the business of protecting our intellectual property."


Meanwhile, Mr. Von Kohorn, the independent inventor in Florida, has sued at least five companies, including CoolSavings, BrightStreet and Catalina, claiming that he owns patents dating from the 1980s that cover electronic distribution of coupons. Mr. Von Kohorn linked his patents to interactive television, but says they apply equally to the Internet.


A chemical engineer by training, Mr. Von Kohorn says his company, Response Reward Systems, which up to now has been only a vehicle for him to collect license fees on the patents, will begin operating its own Internet coupon business in a few months. Competitors are "shocked to find they are infringing on our patents," Mr. Von Kohorn says.


Others are trying hard to stay out of the line of fire. CouponSurfer.com Inc., Bedford, Mass., settled CoolSavings's lawsuit against it last May, just a few months after it was filed. Chief Executive Adam Schwartz says he wanted to focus on his business rather than the lawsuit. But Mr. Schwartz doubts this will protect him for long.


"I think this problem is going to get worse for a little while before it gets better," he says.


Mr. Thurm is a staff reporter in The Wall Street Journal's San Francisco bureau.










EIGHTGetting Into GearBY JOSEPH B. WHITEApril 17, 2000The auto giants General Motors Corp., Ford Motor Co. and DaimlerChrysler AG put e-commerce on the map. Now, they face the real challenge: getting their ambitious Internet plans off the drawing board and onto the road.What these Old Economy titans can or can't do with the Internet during the next several years will be a critical test for the New Economy. Probably nothing this side of a moon walk will be more complex than bringing to reality the vision auto makers and their e-commerce partners have outlined for wiring car factories and dealers. The three archrivals, and other auto makers likely to join a new online-purchasing exchange, have proposed building a technology infrastructure within their factories capable of handling at least half a trillion dollars in purchasing a year. And then they likely will have to create an equally robust network to link dealers and consumers to those wired facilities.The end result in this vision: A consumer will order a car online, and the network will broadcast the order to the factory and to all the suppliers whose parts are required to assemble the car.The obstacles to all this aren't just technical. Auto makers are talking a lot about transforming their businesses to become more like Dell Computer Co., which allows customers to order online computers on spec and receive their customized PC a few days later from a factory that uses the Internet to relay parts orders to suppliers.But the auto industry today is a long way from this "build-to-order" ideal. For all the talk of saving billions by using the Internet to get customers special-ordered vehicles within a few days, many new-car dealers still say the best way to sell is to have two months' worth of vehicles sitting on asphalt, waiting for shoppers to buy on the spot. Car makers still get paid for shipping vehicles to dealers, whether they get sold quickly or not. And the Big Three have guaranteed their factory workers against layoffs in a series of labor contracts, including four-year agreements reached last fall. That means there's strong incentive to keep making even slow-selling models rather than pay employees for doing nothing.Cultural ChangeEven a fake build-to-order system, which would allow consumers to browse vehicles stashed at some central parking lot for one that matches their needs, will require substantial new investments in technology and hardware. Then it will take even more substantial investments in cultural transformation to overcome the objections many in the current auto-manufacturing and retailing system have to opening their businesses to the free-wheeling ways of the Net.Which is why Mark Hoffman, chairman of Commerce One Inc., an e-commerce company, says that now comes the "heavy lifting" in the effort his company has undertaken to get the auto industry's wired future off the ground. Commerce One is one of the main players constructing the auto makers' online supplier marketplace.When auto executives look at their business in light of the Net, they see what goes on between the factory and suppliers as one world, and what goes on between consumers, dealers and the factory as another. At the center is the auto makers' holy grail: bridging those two worlds so a customer can order a vehicle customized to his or her taste and have it delivered within a few days.Today's buying experience is very different, though. Sure, you can walk into any Chevrolet dealer and ask to order a black Chevy Suburban with white leather seats. But that doesn't mean the dealer can get it for you anytime soon from GM's factories, or easily find one at another dealer.That's because GM has a strict allocation system, especially for hot models like the Suburban. If your neighborhood dealer doesn't have a Suburban coming under that system, he can't place your order in GM's current ordering system, known to dealers by the unfortunate acronym VOMS, for Vehicle Order Management System.VOMS, which GM got up and running only last year amid considerable glitches, isn't an Internet ordering system. Instead, the system tells dealers what vehicles GM's central planning department intends to ship them, based on GM's production schedules and analysis of historic sales trends. The system won't accept special orders from dealers who haven't sold the vehicles sitting on their lots. So if a dealer has 20 Suburbans, but not one in the color a customer wants, that's too bad."A Real Challenge"GM executives are working to change that, as are their rivals at other companies. But it isn't as simple as just letting any dealer order any vehicle anytime. "Our commitment is to work toward order to delivery," says Mike Jackson, executive director of sales support for GM's North American sales and marketing operations. "It's a real challenge right now. It's literally a work in progress."Many longtime GM dealers with a big investment in brick-and-mortar operations are opposed to altering the company's allocation system in ways that might allow upstart dealers to use the Internet to order more hot-selling vehicles in addition to the ones on their storefront lots. The dealers' main concern is that a rival in another franchise territory will use the Internet to lure customers from their territories.In other industries, using the Internet to reduce or bypass heavy capital investments is the whole allure of e-commerce. But auto makers such as GM are reluctant to change their current systems and hurt current brick-and-mortar dealers. At GM, the policy is to give dealers "the capability to support customers after the purchase," says spokesman Terry Sullivan.Step back a few more paces from the ordering process and a diagram of the existing new-vehicle retailing system looks like a plate of spaghetti and meatballs, with myriad incompatible and closed communications systems linking dealers to factories, dotcom car brokers to dealers, consumers to lenders, and so on.The retail side of the new-vehicle business "is still a mess," says Lloyd "Buzz" Waterhouse, president and chief operating officer of Reynolds & Reynolds Inc., a longtime supplier of data systems to car dealers. "It's not unusual for a chain of four stores to have as many as 15 communications interfaces."Online car-selling executives like Mark Lorimer, chief executive of Autobytel.com Inc. in Irvine, Calif., says that it costs about $1,270 to sell the average car, and that his online shopping system could slash that to as little as $150 to $300 a car by eliminating salespeople and advertising. But others in the industry argue that such estimates are far too rosy.Mr. Waterhouse, who recently moved to Reynolds from International Business Machines Corp., is rapidly remaking Reynolds into a provider of Web-commerce technology. The Dayton, Ohio, company is in discussions with auto makers about how it could help set up an Internet-based network linking dealers, manufacturers and other players in the world of auto retailing.The Bottom LineMr. Waterhouse contends that by replacing the hodgepodge of closed data systems with an open, Internet-enabled pipeline, the industry could save as much as $40 billion upfront in reduced inventory costs, order-processing costs and the like. An additional $12 billion a year in continuing operating savings could be realized by slashing inventories of unsold vehicles, reducing stockpiles of spare parts and replacing paper shuffling with electronic documents. To make his case, Mr. Waterhouse points to a diagram of the current system showing the tangle of lines between dealers, car auction houses, banks, insurers, dot-com brokers and, lest we forget, the Department of Motor Vehicles."The system needs to be opened up," he says.When it comes to auto suppliers, the issues are equally complex. For one thing, many auto-supply-company executives are skeptical that the auto makers will reap the huge savings they have projected by merging their parts purchasing online into a single megamarket.The companies have told suppliers that joining the exchange will save them money, let them buy everything from staples to stamping presses electronically and, most important, give them an insider's view of auto makers' product plans so they can rejigger their own supply chains to match. A major feature of the proposed supplier exchange is online auctions. GM and Ford already have run pilot auctions, taking bids over the Internet from suppliers competing to sell tires and used factory machinery, among other things.Auto makers haven't put out firm figures on how much they will save by putting their suppliers online, although they clearly hope to save billions each year. Auto-industry executives and analysts have said that if the industry could use build-to-order and real-time communications with suppliers to cut inventories of vehicles and parts in half, the savings in freed-up working capital could be huge—as much as $20 billion at GM alone.But many executives at automotive suppliers say that while the Internet megamart may be good for purchasing "commodities" like steel or chemicals or toilet paper for the factory restrooms, components like axles or seats or dashboards can't be ordered like paper clips."This will not work for what I'll call highly engineered products," says Bill Kozyra, who is in charge of marketing for Continental General Tire Inc., which dropped out of an online auction because the price skidded below what it was willing to accept. Although tires have long been viewed as the quintessential automotive commodity, Mr. Kozyra says they're increasingly sophisticated because they are engineered to work with a specific vehicle's suspension and braking system.Giving Up Secrets?The problem with complex vehicle systems is that pricing for such components includes the value of the engineering required to design the system. In addition, suppliers are worried about shipping proprietary engineering designs to a Web site, for fear that the information could wind up in the hands of rivals.Since the auto makers announced their ambitious Internet auction plans, hardly a day goes by without a supplier executive denouncing any move to hold auctions for "highly engineered products." One of the big fights looming is defining what is a "commodity" auto component and what is "highly engineered."Think a brake drum is a commodity? No way, says Enrique Villasenor, president of SanLuis Rassini, the auto-parts division of Mexico's SanLuis Corp. and a big supplier of brake hardware. "One of the biggest warranty issues [for manufacturers] is brakes," Mr. Villasenor says. "I don't know if they want to do an auction" for such a critical part.The auto makers have tried to assuage suppliers' fears. Indeed, a big reason for teaming up is because the idea of separate exchanges was meeting resistance from suppliers. Suppliers did breathe a collective sigh of relief upon hearing they wouldn't have to choose from competing exchanges. But they still worry that Internet auctions will send their prices spiraling downward and undermine their recent efforts to move from supplying bits and pieces to providing sophisticated, higher-value sub-assemblies—for example, a complete wheel, tire and suspension module delivered to the assembly line.Auto-industry officials have been reassuring suppliers in recent weeks that they intend to use online auctions at first mainly for supplies that don't go on cars—pencils, shop gloves and other so-called indirect supplies. The auto makers say they will be cautious about using the auctions to buy more-complex components or systems (say, a truck's suspension system), but how far they go could vary from company to company. The auto makers say confidential data would be secure.While big suppliers may be won over to the exchange in time, another big hurdle for the exchange will be just getting smaller suppliers wired. Many of those suppliers don't have high-speed Internet connections and sophisticated software for handling such tasks as real-time price quotes. Moreover, small suppliers already are under enormous pressure from current cost-cutting programs.The biggest hurdle, though, may be changing suppliers' mindset. Historically, many auto makers are known for running roughshod over their suppliers. That's why parts companies don't believe it when executives such as GM's Ray Pollard, who works on the company's exchange, says, "The business we're getting into is helping the supply base. We want to drive cost and waste out of the system."Commerce One's CEO, Mr. Hoffman, says of suppliers: "There's definitely a mentality change that has to go on here."Mr. White is chief of The Wall Street Journal's Detroit bureau.How to Buy a CarTHE OLD WAY

Total time: 90 days or more.Cost of the whole process: Weak brand loyalty, lower consumer satisfaction, billions tied up in unsold inventory. Car maker's stock languishes with Old Economy shares.THE NEW WAYConsumer goes online to order a red truck, picking options such as white seats, wood-grain dash, V-8 engine, super sound system.Order is sent to closest retailer (formerly known as the "dealer") either offline or online. Dealer arranges financing, unless consumer already has signed up for financing elsewhere, including online (minutes).Factory receives order. Suppliers, which have been hired via bidding on Internet exchange in auctions that last a few hours, are notified online to ship customized components (a few hours to several days depending on the type of customization).Car is built by assembling a few dozen pre-assembled modules to a simplified frame (several hours to a day).Car is shipped directly to dealer; vehicle is tracked using a bar-code system similar to how UPS tracks packages (a few days).Dealer and consumer are contacted at the same time that car arrives at dealership (minutes).Dealer and consumer arrange for appointment to pick up car and sign papers. Or the vehicle is delivered to the customer's door.Consumer drives away with vehicle he really wants.Total time: 10 days.Cost of the whole process: Substantial to reconfigure factories to operate in build-to-order mode.Payoff: Increased consumer satisfaction and brand loyalty; billions formerly locked up in idle inventory are freed up for massive shareholder dividends or megamergers.











NINE

Our Data, Ourselves


BY JOHN BUSKIN



April 17, 2000



To most Web users, the biggest privacy concern is that some site will grab their innermost secrets—from credit-card numbers to medical records to video rentals—and exploit them.


The possibility that, say, the government might be snatching our e-mails and scanning them for references to TOW missiles, explosive humus or vials of salmonella seems to bother us less than the idea that Mondo Corp. is covertly gathering up our names and addresses when we surf to its Web site.









Proof of that came with the furor over the potential misuse of "cookies." Deposited onto visitors' hard drives, cookies are tags that numerically identify those visitors and track their activity on a merchant's site—what individuals are clicking on, what they are buying, and so on. The tags "recognize" you when you return to a site—so, for example, a financial site automatically knows what stock quotes to show you every time you visit.


The public—which had spent years yawning at Web-privacy debates like technical standards for encryption systems—usually never gave cookies much thought.


Then DoubleClick, a New York Web-advertising agency, tried to put a new spin on cookies. Last year, DoubleClick acquired marketing firm Abacus Direct of Broomfield, Colo. The plan: to cross-reference the information about online activity gathered from the cookies with the names, addresses and consumer histories of the real people in Abacus's databases.


The public reacted like the Colonials to the Stamp Act. After a hubbub in the press and the weighing in of the Federal Trade Commission, DoubleClick buckled, putting its plans to merge its cookie data with the Abacus data on hold.


Like most new developments on the Web, the furor was unexpected, sudden and violent—so much so that you might think the debate over cookies was a new one. In fact, the DoubleClick fight only brought to light an argument that's been simmering out of the public eye for some time now. Marketers, technicians, academics and lawyers have been debating what's right and wrong about cookies almost as long as cookies have been around.


How much should we worry about cookies? How much information should we be obliged to give up? What should the consequences be for misusing that information? How do we cope with cookies if we don't like them? Here's what the experts think.


The Marketer

John Nardone


President, International and Media Worldwide, for Modem Media, an interactive-ad agency and Internet consulting firm in Norwalk, Conn.



"The issue of cookies has been clouded,"Mr. Nardone says. "There's so much misinformation that's been thrown around by people with particular agendas."


Cookies, he argues, are no more intrusive than putting a serial number on your browser—and they're an essential tool for delivering personalized services online.


As an example, he describes a situation in which an airline site runs limited seat specials to particular destinations. By tracking a customers' history on the site, cookies allow the airline to identify those fliers who have a strong preference for a particular destination. The site then can alert those fliers to the special deals.


To collect potentially dangerous tracking information, Mr. Nardone says, a company would need to spread its cookies over a wide network so a user's path could be followed.


Indeed, DoubleClick—and many other advertisers, as well—do track customers across multiple Web sites. Here's how it works. Usually, if a site deposits a cookie on your hard drive, it can get information only about what you do at its individual site. The banner ads that DoubleClick creates, however, aren't really a part of the sites they appear on. The ads are stored on DoubleClick's own server. That means if you go from one site that has a DoubleClick ad to another site that has a DoubleClick ad, the DoubleClick cookie can track you there. Recently, however, many advertisers have been laying claim to the data collected through banner-ad cookies. The advertisers feel that they're the rightful owners of the data—not the ad agencies that place the ads on commercial sites.


DoubleClick has spelled out its position in a number of press releases and articles. The company hasn't acknowledged that collecting and cross-referencing user information is either wrong or dangerous, but has acknowledged in both an editorial-page article in The Wall Street Journal and a press release that the company "made a mistake by planning to merge names with anonymous user activity across Web sites in the absence of government and industry privacy standards." (WSJ.com, the online Journal, uses DoubleClick technology but isn't a member of the DoubleClick advertising network.)


Mr. Nardone believes online operators that collect such information should let users know what they're doing. On the users' end, he has a simple suggestion for software makers.


"Ship the browsers with the cookie controls turned off," he says. The user would then have the choice to turn them on, rather than turn them off in defense. This would also take the user through the process of learning how to use the controls so that they wouldn't seem so hidden or mystifying.


The Techies

Richard Stallman


MacArthur Fellow; co-developer of the GNU/Linux operating systems; leading voice in the Free Software Movement, which seeks to allow users access to copy, distribute and change software at will.



Mr. Stallman agrees that cookies aren't bad by nature. Using cookies to gather consumer data was an unbidden application that spread in lockstep with e-commerce itself.


"I think that there are useful and legitimate uses of cookies," such as keeping track of basic information about a customer so sites can streamline service, Mr. Stallman says.


But "certain uses of cookies pervert that goal," he says. "I believe DoubleClick uses cookies on the ads to track users across multiple Web sites. I think that is wrong."


Mr. Stallman's solution: "It should be possible to modify [a Web browser] to 'forget' the cookies that DoubleClick gives you, and thus block it from really tracking your behavior from one site to another."


John Gilmore


Co-founder, Electronic Frontier Foundation, which defends digital free expression; created "alt" designation for alternative newsgroups on Usenet, which dramatically increased the amount of dialogue on the Internet.



Mr. Gilmore gives cookies no quarter. "I find [cookies] a really bad idea," he says. "I keep my browsers configured to reject them, and I refuse to deal with sites that insist on having them. I value my privacy and don't want my Web accesses to be tracked by advertisers."


Mr. Gilmore is working on a technology wherein network administrators can configure their computer systems to disable cookies for all users on the network. In the past, Mr. Gilmore has complained to sites that required cookies and says some sites changed their policy. He believes a key to changing the landscape is consumer pressure.


Mike Shaver


Chief software officer of Montreal software firm Zero-Knowledge Systems; contributor to the Open Source Project, which creates and promotes free Web technology.



Mr. Shaver is among those attempting to develop technological solutions that ensure a user's privacy while surfing the Web. One Open Source venture he has worked on for a number of years is a free browser called Mozilla. (Mozilla was the internal code name for the original Netscape browser.)


As planned, Mozilla will have versions compatible with both Windows and Linux operating systems, will be free for the downloading and will employ, Mr. Shaver says, "cookie controls that are substantially advanced. . . , controls that work on a per-domain or per-site basis," so that users can block out cookies from specific sites instead of all sites.


In addition, for Zero-Knowledge, he has managed the development of Freedom, a privacy-protection software program that promises no "leaking" of any personal information while surfing, e-mailing or chatting. It accomplishes this by scrambling the routes over which information travels during Web surfing.


Freedom also offers its users the option to create different identities (called "nyms," short for pseudonyms) for different Web activities. According to the company, "Each nym has a unique encryption key and digital signature, existing as an independent digital citizen on the Internet."


Though this sounds beneficial, it's also ominous in that it could protect the identity of e-vildoers who would be able to spam, flame, hack or pirate their way around cyberspace in a nearly impenetrable cloak of anonymity.


Whitfield Diffie


Distinguished Engineer, Sun Microsystems Inc.; co-developer of the Diffie-Hellman-Merkle key exchange, one of the encryption components that helped facilitate e-commerce.



"I have not been able to adequately cope with cookies myself," Mr. Diffie confesses.


First he created a program called Cookie Monster to disable the tags. But he had to turn it off when he went to sites he wanted to access that insisted on using cookies. For the program to be most effective, he also found he often had to restart Netscape.


So, he says, he has come to an uneasy peace with cookies. "I've stopped worrying about them," he says.


The Lawyers

Victoria C. Shapiro


Worked for Microsoft Corp. as a privacy-policy attorney in Europe, and as a lawyer in private practice in Washington, D.C.; vice president and general counsel for TheBrain.com, a software-development company in Santa Monica, Calif.



The debate over online privacy, Ms. Shapiro argues, ignores a much larger fact: The collection of personal information by companies has been going on for a long, long time.


"I don't think the privacy issue is overblown, but it is overhyped in the Internet context," she says. "There's been a great amount of data mining offline. . . . It just wasn't publicized. The Internet has acted as a catalyst for privacy concerns because of the speed of data transmissions."


For example, Ms. Shapiro says, "catalog companies routinely sell lists of individuals who have ordered products. And there's no 'Opt Out' box when you call Victoria's Secret."


She goes on to explain that mail-order companies can also track consumers' buying history through purchase numbers on catalogs, much as cookies track Web transactions.


"Consumers are always going to be disconcerted about the use of their truly sensitive personal information," she says. "To date, neither consumers nor state or federal legislators have carried those concerns—even offline—into [legal] action." This isn't necessarily a bad thing. Ms. Shapiro notes that there is concern within the industry that heavy-handed legislation could have a damping effect on the advancement of technology, and, consequently, the ability of companies to selectively market.


She believes that sites should post privacy policies describing how users can disable cookies, but she acknowledges, "Probably a very low number of people are looking at privacy policies." Consumers should expect companies to be honest with them about what they're doing. DoubleClick, she feels, should have conveyed their plans to combine data earlier.


Paul Saffo


Attorney; director of the Institute for the Future in Menlo Park, Calif.



Collecting data, online or off-, can be extremely dangerous, says Mr. Saffo—and there must be accountability.


"Some kind of information collection is as dangerous as collecting gasoline," he says. "Some things are so intrinsically dangerous that if you collect them, you're just liable. . . . Health information would be a case in point."


The danger, Mr. Saffo says, is that companies will collect potentially embarrassing or damaging information about someone, and then be indiscreet with it, allowing it to fall into any number of wrong hands, from hackers to employers.


In data collection, he argues, as the volume and detail increases, liability and responsibility should increase as well. "The data-collection industry has a terrible record in this area," he says. "It's an arrogant industry in that they say, 'We just collect it.' "


But he thinks the answer—at least in part—will be worked out through business culture, not by lawmakers.


"The level of understanding about cyberspace in Congress is abysmal," Mr. Saffo says. "Most congressmen don't know the difference between a mouse and a keyboard."


Mr. Buskin is editor of The Pouch, the Dow Jones internal Web site.













TEN

Behind the Portal


BY KARA SWISHER



April 17, 2000



With all the noise from dot-com advertising these days, it's easy to forget that Yahoo! Inc. was one of the first Web companies to brand itself, an effort that began officially in 1996 with a campaign that launched the now-well-known motto: "Do You Yahoo?"









Since then, Yahoo has grown into the most-visited site on the Web, and has added a range of interactive services to its basic Web directory—from e-mail to paging to an extensive online shopping area—to morph itself into a "portal." Commerce is expected to become an increasingly important part of Yahoo as the company plays the role of an "enabler," bringing together buyers and sellers in what company leaders hope will become one of the largest markets on the Internet.


In a conversation at a new headquarters building in Santa Clara, Calif., Yahoo's co-founder and Chief Yahoo Jerry Yang, Vice President of Brand Marketing Karen Edwards and Richard Rogowski, a producer of Yahoo's shopping division, discussed a wide range of topics, from the strategy behind Yahoo's brand to how it could change its ideas about partnerships to competition from Amazon.com Inc. to the popularity of pashmina shawls.



The Wall Street Journal: Karen, why don't we start with you, because you were sort of behind the brand at the beginning. I want to get an idea of where you think you've come from, and where you plan on going.



Ms. Edwards: I remember when we first started doing some of this stuff, people would say, "Oh, is that the chocolate drink?" Our goal really was just to get awareness. We knew that the name was really catchy, and we knew that people would respond just to the name. If they just knew the Yahoo name, we had a pretty good shot at hooking them.


And [Yahoo had about] three million users at the time. Now we have 120 million users, right? So [now, when we think] about brand building, it's more about building an emotional connection with our users. And some of that's image, so that can be something addressed in advertising. But a lot of that's about the brand experience and the product experience. And it's about your reputation as a company. It's about a lot more intangible things.


So I think that going forward you're going to see us still do a lot of things that keep us [at the top of people's] minds and keep us very visible, but it's no longer just about generating awareness—certainly not for a company like Yahoo.


I think that one mistake that maybe some of the start-up e-commerce companies are doing is they're creating awareness quickly—or they're making attempts to create awareness quickly—but there's nothing behind there. There's no kind of substance behind it. There's no emotional connection that the person, the consumer, can make. And there's not an integrated approach to marketing. It's more of just, say, make some noise, get out there with advertising and then—oh gee, then what? You know, there's not a whole lot there.


So I think we really try to take the approach where we use advertising, promotions, things on the site, aspects of the product, all the things that we do in public relations, a lot of the educational kinds of things that we do—things like licensing, buzz and promotional activity. We do it world-wide, and we do it local.



WSJ: Did you ever think of changing the name?



Mr. Yang: Well, when we first got money, we actually asked ourselves whether Yahoo was a name of a company that people would want to do business with. And it was even more irreverent and less established than it is now, so I think we thought about that for like 30 seconds and said, "We can't come up with a better name."


[The name] was already a brand before we knew it. I think the thing that we kind of lucked into was, we were at Stanford for a year and then we got funded and then we turned it into a business. But by the end of the year at Stanford, we were already such a well-known place that—we didn't know what brand meant, really, until Karen taught us what brand meant.


But [the name] was easy for people to remember. People could tell other people [about it] very easily, and they had an emotional attachment to it. I mean, somebody who had Yahoo in 1995 had some sort of a relationship with it. And those are the things I think that we sort of intuitively knew were valuable. And if we had to change that and start over, we might lose people. And besides, everything at that point was just fast—as fast as you can go forward, that's what you can do. You can't come in and go backward and then go forward again.



WSJ: What did the name mean to you, and to your visitors?



Mr. Yang: For us, it had the meaning of being kind of a bunch of yahoos, and that was fine. But I think for a lot of people, it was kind of like, "Wow, this is great. Wow, I'm getting excited. I'm really getting used to the Internet. I can really do stuff on the Internet." And it wasn't a literal meaning, like it could be a literal meaning. But it's not like Excite, right?


Pushing the Brand

WSJ: So when you're talking about meaning and you're shifting into commerce—when you have a name that means something else—how do you then convince people that it's also about shopping? Because I would assume in the future shopping is an important part of what Yahoo has to be about. [The "shopping" section of Yahoo's site works like the directory part of the site—you type in a product you're looking for, and you get a list of stores that are part of Yahoo's network. In addition, some stores that pay for placement get big ads all over the site.]



Mr. Rogowski: Well, the big advantage is that Yahoo's a great brand. It was incredible, and I was kind of following it before I came to the company [from Gap Inc.]. And with all the services that were already on the site—like the e-mail, chat, the [instant-message service], all the things that were launching—it became to me like a network, like a full-service network. And I think [online] auctions was another property that really kind of solidified in the user's mind that you can do commerce on this site. You can buy and sell things on Yahoo.


So I think it was just building on that. And the other thing that's really cool is that since it started as a directory, sort of our core competency is aggregating and organizing information. And I like to tell people, "Why shop [on Yahoo]? Well, we're the best organizers with everything you'd ever want to buy."


And then the other thing's about design, the simplicity of our design and the fact that generally our pages load pretty easily. It's intuitive, it's not complicated. I think all those things are really appealing. So, you know, it was kind of natural.



WSJ: So why did you call it Yahoo Shopping and Yahoo Auctions, and didn't go for a double brand with well-known retailers?



Ms. Edwards: Well, there's also the other argument of "Should we have just called it Auction Gee Whiz, as opposed to Yahoo Auctions?" But I really think that it's important that Yahoo itself stands for the sum of the parts. So we've always named our different properties Yahoo X, Yahoo Z. And hopefully, people take away the fact that we have all these different services.


The partnering idea—I won't say we would never do it. We do have Yahoo GeoCities, we do have Yahoo Broadcast [which are divisions made from companies that Yahoo bought]. Where there's real strong equity in the company that we're partnering or merging with or buying, then we certainly wouldn't want to just throw that equity away. But, in most cases, we're really the brand that can kind of cut through and stick in people's minds better.


But our strategy is really that we don't really let someone else—we haven't ever had another company or property come in and just own a part of the network, because we think that's a value we bring, aggregating a variety of different sources into all the different areas. So we would never—never say never—but we don't really take the approach of having just one entity own a particular piece.



Mr. Yang: We really position ourselves as a network brand—not network in the traditional meaning, but the way we have built it. So the fact that you can come in, you get registered, and you can access e-mail and all this other stuff—your brand relationship with Yahoo is probably more personalized than your relationship is with NBC. It's your Yahoo network. It's your network, your platform, to the Web.


So if you think about it from that perspective, you see where a lot of our branding strategy is. As for being able to deal with one merchant—we would never just go to one clothing partner. And as good as all of them are, we can't sort of say, "Yahoo apparel is by Gap." I mean, it doesn't work that way, right? But we could do "Yahoo Apparel," which is kind of our aisle in the mall or our thing in the mall, and then you have the Gap on Yahoo's network [along with other clothing retailers].


Against the Behemoth

WSJ: Do you see co-branding deals happening more in the future, though? Consider the AOL/Time Warner deal. They're likely to be putting the brands out there. And they're going to obviously aggressively do that. Do you see that you'll do that?



Ms. Edwards: There definitely could be cases where we would partner with someone or acquire something, where we maybe would lead with that name or that property or whatever. But clearly it has to have a really strong association with Yahoo . . . whichever name comes first. Sometimes it comes down to alliteration. Sometimes it comes down to the fact that it just doesn't fit on a logo horizontally. It really has to come down to the fact that the consumer takes away that "I'm having a Yahoo experience" and that it's not a limited experience. It's not just one view of the world—that there are multiple views of the world.



WSJ: But are there properties where you might need more sharing?



Mr. Yang: There will be a day—and I think all of us agree on that—where there's broadband content, where there are commerce opportunities, where there are specialized services [in which we will] want to make [a] partnership more upfront or visible.


I mean, if you take the Grammys or the Oscars or whatever—clearly, those are all co-brands because they're differentiators in themselves. Do you want to say "Yahoo Olympics with IBM"? I mean, you don't want 15 things.


By and large, [we'd want to] come up with a compelling differentiator service that has our brand, that talks about the consumer benefits that Yahoo brings, ease of use, etc.—and our partner brand. If it's a content player or a commerce player, and it's become the differentiated thing, it's good for us, it's good for them, it's good for the user—it would be stupid not to do it. So it's not this sort of religion that we have to be on the top or on the bottom or on the side or on the left or on the right. It's "How do we package it so that it's unique?"


I think the AOL/Time Warner thing almost put the cart before the horse. Because we think about it as: Does this benefit the user? They've got to now go think about it as whose brand is better and who ought to be in the front, and then try to figure out the consumer proposition. And I think that's not the wrong way to do it, but it's going to be more complex all around.



WSJ: You mean, AOL might say, "We have this deal, and so we're going to push Bugs Bunny—a character owned by Time Warner—before all else"?



Mr. Yang: Well, I don't know. But is it going to be AOL/CNN? Or is it CNN on AOL? Is it CNN on the news channel on part of AOL? I mean, we don't have those kinds of conflicts. We negotiate it as whatever you can bring to the table. And, to us, we think we should still judge it based on its merits and its ultimate benefits to the users. [AOL/Time Warner] may or may not be able to do that.



WSJ: Do you worry about not getting access to, say, commerce partners that may want exclusive deals?



Mr. Rogowski: You know, I think our product at the end of the day will speak for itself. That's one thing I think we recognize, we're very focused on users, which is great. And I think that's the essence of our shopping property that we discovered. We have another customer, which is our merchant [who participates in the Yahoo shopping network].



WSJ: You actually came from a merchant site.



Mr. Rogowski: It's funny. I was there when the resistance [to moving online] was happening. And I came here and saw the changes and then we signed up the Gap. And that was like a big victory for me.



WSJ: Talk a little bit about the Gap, which is all about a brand. I mean, they're almost like Yahoo Clothes, in a weird way. Their clothes mean something to people.



Mr. Rogowski: Yeah, to the extent that they've got a very strong brand and they're very loyal to their customer. And it's the customer first, and they're religiously devoted to them. I think we have a lot in common. I mean, most recently I was with [Gap's] Old Navy. . . .And when I thought about Yahoo, it was like the same type of thing for me. It was like a fun, cool brand that was accessible to everyone.


Keeping the Doors Open

WSJ: But is everything going to remain accessible to Yahoo in the future?



Mr. Yang: I think when you talk about content, we still believe that there's not sort of this lock-out scenario—that good content wants to be seen. And as long as we possess a decent distribution, people are going to try really hard to say, "I don't want to be distributed on Yahoo just to be excluded on AOL or anywhere else."



Ms. Edwards: I think it's even more so on a commerce site, and maybe you guys could disagree with me. But I think on the commerce side, it's about money. They want to make money. We spend a lot of time working with the merchants [in the Yahoo shopping network] and coaching them on their dollar return, but also the marketing value that they're getting from being on the site. And we're slowly building those relationships. And we're able to do things that they can't do. I mean, No. 1, we've got huge traffic, which we are doing everything we can to leverage to drive business in shopping.


The other thing that we're doing is we have a really strong editorial point of view, so we have this whole surfing department that can help us to editorialize our site. We strike up partnerships where it's appropriate. We have New York magazine woven throughout our shopping site, and it does the "best of" page in all of Yahoo.



Mr. Yang: Right. And one of the interesting things is that we have, especially in the recent past, advocated that if people have their own stores—they've built their own sites—we are an extension of that. We don't say, "You have to go create a store on my platform."



Ms. Edwards: Or "It has to look like Yahoo."



Mr. Yang: Or "It has to look like Yahoo, it has to look like AOL."



WSJ: So people in the shopping network do the store they want to do?



Mr. Yang: Right. And they get the benefit of the Yahoo audience. So the proposition is very different than, say, going on an AOL mall, where you'd really have to follow that this is the size store and you have to fit in this box.


Right now, AOL, I think, still has a tremendous ability to generate commerce, but that model is a closed-off, "You've got to fit in this mode or you're not playing" kind of mode. Whereas ours is not. I think it's going to be a bigger problem in the commerce area than in other areas. And the reason is because I think in so many categories time and time again we see that it's better to have more than one clothing alternative. It's better than to have one bookstore. It's better than to have just one of everything. I mean, just go down the aisle.


First Among Equals

WSJ: But in commerce you will continue to take money from premier partners—retailers that pay to get premier placement on the site. How long do you think that's going to continue? Do you think that's something that's a constant source of income for you all?



Mr. Rogowski: I think to the extent that we can meet their expectations to increase their return on investments, which we're doing, to keep building the business, to keep driving traffic. And it all boils down to having a site that's just great in the user's eyes. Everybody was skeptical, I think, a while ago about the aggregation model. But I think, again, it's like all these other services that we can provide. It's like what Jerry said. If you're using [Yahoo] as your platform, shopping is just a natural extension of reading your e-mail or checking on your auctions. And I think that's the cool thing that we offer.



WSJ: It's like an end-cap situation in traditional retail stores.



Mr. Yang: A what?



WSJ: An end cap.



Ms. Edwards: Displays—end-cap displays.



Mr. Yang: What is an end cap?



WSJ: Do you ever go to the supermarket anymore?



Mr. Yang: I actually only like shopping online.



WSJ: At the end of the store aisles, they have these parts that are at the end, like where they keep the chips. It's an end cap, and food companies pay more to be there. That's what you're doing. You're giving people specialized places to be.



Mr. Yang: We call them an anchor store. It's like a mall.



WSJ: But what if people stop paying for these spots? I mean, Amazon has made noises of not wanting to pay these fees anymore.



Ms. Edwards: There are folks that are distributed through our network, right? So when you're in music or you're in key areas within the site—not just with shopping—you have people paying for premium placement. And, again, it still comes down to the same end of the story, because it's, "Are they getting a good return on their investment? Are they possibly blocking out a competitor from having a really prime position? Is it a good integration with the other marketing that they're doing?" They want to make sure that they are spending money offline, so that people can actually find them online. So that's like a distribution strategy for a lot of these folks. And I think that that's still going to be valuable for a lot of the sites.


But I think it'll continue to evolve. Like, will people want to have buttons or banners or merchandising units or display units or rich media [audio and video clips] or whatever? I mean, it all comes down to formatting, right? Because people want to be in front of our audience. And, so, those premier merchant contracts, is that the same thing that's going to happen next year vs. how it's happened in the past? Who knows? But I think, at the end of the day, it's going to be some hybrid of the way it's worked in the past, in addition to all these new things that we're learning about how our users navigate this site.



Mr. Yang: I think it's been true for five years. We also influence how they navigate.


And I think what's happening is that people tend to focus on a snapshot of how we define things and say, "Well, what if that goes away?" When, in reality, what we all need to look at in order to be successful is how many gross transactions do we enable [by linking buyers and sellers]? We looked at travel, we looked at auctions, we looked at our brokerage services, we looked at stores, shopping—so it's not just one area or it's not just one contract. It's, as a whole, "Are we enabling more commerce?" I think we are.


And, over time, what we receive as compensation for that will change—whether you call it placement fees or registration fees or licensing fees or whatever. Those are all formatting, as Karen says. And, quite honestly, I think we're aiming at billions and billions of dollars of the commerce. I'm worried about getting those billions and billions of dollars.


Where to Look

WSJ: What areas are big now? What are the growth areas?



Mr. Rogowski: I think the people who have the potential to do extremely well when they get their act together are the people who have a stronger customer base. I think of Wal-Mart. And it's not a question of if—it's a question of when. People like Target, I think, which is incredibly hot. Of course, Old Navy, which is near and dear to my heart, I think is an amazing company, the best-merchandised company in the world. So those are the people I think are going to do really well.


I'm skeptical of some of the dot-coms personally, but who's to say? I mean, I don't have a crystal ball. But I think to have the infrastructure in place, to be able to say to the customer, "Guess what? You can buy it online. You can return it to the store. You can call a store. You can go to a kiosk in the store and buy it online if it's not in the store that you're at"—to offer that kind of convenience and to leverage the Internet as a channel and not like this mysterious hocus-pocus thing, that's the thing.



Ms. Edwards: There's a lot of separation that needn't be there.



Mr. Rogowski: I get a lot of people who are hell-bent on making the Internet this weird place—it's like with Oz. Pull back the curtain, you know? It's like, enough is enough. It's just commerce.



Ms. Edwards: And also all the basic fundamentals of retail still apply in terms of convenience. [But] I have to take a slightly different take on what Richard said in the sense that some of the dot-coms have been successful at really leveraging the Internet to be different. So, for instance, the people who did last-minute shopping deals—a good example was Red Envelope [an online gift site]. I don't know everything they do. I don't need to know. Maybe they are a client [of Yahoo Shopping]. Yeah, they are a client.



Mr. Rogowski: We don't always promote our clients, but chances are they are our clients.



Ms. Edwards: Well, all I know is that there was somebody at that company saying, "We don't have a brick-and-mortar presence. Therefore, we'd better be more convenient, have better merchandise, more compelling advertising, more interesting image." Somebody there is being pretty savvy about figuring out how to outsmart their traditional brick-and-mortar-type competition.



Mr. Rogowski: It has to be more. I mean, dot-coms—there are successful dot-coms, obviously. Not all of them just make a lot of noise and try to get great awareness and have nothing behind it. And you could go down the line from, clearly, Amazon.


You look at a lot of these dot-coms in e-commerce—they have to have something that has got to make them stand out in the Internet sense. We have been seeing quite a bit of that—the click-and-mortar. Some of them are going to get it—those who I think understand the customers and understand the Internet as a greater way to reach the customer are going to do well, regardless of whether they have physical infrastructure or not. And other people who just always relied on, you know, "I have a mall and they come and they buy things and I don't understand who's buying from me and I don't know how to merchandise"—those people are going to fail whether they have a dot-com strategy or not.


So, to me, it's still about marketing and merchandising.



Ms. Edwards: Well, it always is.



Mr. Rogowski: And those things don't change very often.



Mr. Yang: The dot-coms have kind of paved the trails of the services that are now necessary. One-click [purchasing] is necessary. It's all kind of moved us all forward, and I think that's great. I think there's a critical role that a lot of these people have played.



WSJ: Let's talk about Amazon. Is Amazon then a competitor to you?



Mr. Yang: Well, that's what some say. It depends how you cut their business up. But I think we are an enabler. And that means that we are trying to add value to buyers—which we actually didn't talk about, but we should talk about a bit. We had all these eyeballs that two years ago didn't even think about buying on Yahoo. Now some of them—a lot of them—are. But what we need to do is give [Yahoo users] more and more services while they're registering all the stuff.


So we're an enabler in the sense that we want to enable the buyers to do more. And we want the sellers to do more—storefronts, store publishing software [technology to put up stores online], our extension of other people's existing stores [on Yahoo Shopping]—you know, click-and-mortar-type marketing efforts. Co-promotion is key—Karen had done a tremendous amount of co-marketing deals, so that there is synergy when you promote each other's stores.


But ultimately we're sort of that layer in the middle. We're not a merchant of record.


The "E" Word

WSJ: No, you're an enabler. You're a middleman.



Mr. Yang: Enabler with a capital "E." Amazon, I think, has ambitions in an enabling space, both in the auction sense but also in the Z-shop sense [an area on Amazon where the site promotes other retailers].



WSJ: But they are also a retailer.



Mr. Yang: They're a retailer as well. And I think as long as their heart and soul is a retailer, we don't compete with them because our goal in life is to enable retailers. You know, we drive a lot of traffic to them.



WSJ: What happened when they started to enable the Z-shop thing, then?



Mr. Yang: I think it's fine. I think as a proposition, they have some challenges—because it's clear that some merchants don't mind, and they just set up as many shops as possible. But others over time—you know, we've invested a whole bunch of time and energy and money into Yahoo Shopping that 10 years from now Yahoo Shopping ought to still be the state of the art.



WSJ: But you don't have the tension that they might have?



Mr. Yang: And we don't have the conflict. And I think those conflicts ultimately will play a role.



WSJ: But when I think of retail online, I think Amazon. I don't think of Yahoo Shopping at all. I think of Yahoo for searches or information.



Mr. Yang: Grrrrrrrrr . . .



WSJ: Did you growl at me?



Mr. Yang: Yeah!



WSJ: OK, fine.



Ms. Edwards: All of our advertising has some focus on shopping in this regard, and everything has been about shopping. But a lot of the things that we are focused on in our shopping, and one of the challenges that I face and that our team faces, is we have a network, so we want to get people to the front door. We want to get them into our main service.


But then it's like, wow, 120 million people—how do you get them to the right things? And, on the one hand, we want to lead them to things like shopping, which we think is really important, and we think it'll be important to them. But we also want to make sure that they find the things that they care about at that time. So all of our offline [advertising and promotion] is really focused on shopping, and shopping does have a prominent place on our front page.



Mr. Rogowski: Karen asked the question, "What is our goal?" And I always say, "I know nothing about snowboarding. I go to Yahoo. I get a snowboard. I find out all the information I need to know. I get the best deal and I'm not ripped off, and it's a great experience and I use the online wallet, and it gets shipped to me, and I have a great customer-service experience." I want it to be completely seamless, and I want you to not have to wonder and not have to find a salesperson and not have to struggle like you do in the offline world. That's, I think, a big advantage that we can do—that we're capable of doing.



WSJ: What about good original content, since when you buy certain things you want information, such as pricing and reviews? You don't want brochures.



Ms. Edwards: On computer purchases, for sure.



Mr. Rogowski: And, certainly, with the bigger-ticket items, you tend to want to do that.



WSJ: Actually, on a lot of things. I like to know about albums and their reviews.



Mr. Rogowski: So we're trying to do a couple of things, such as extending our shopper services. We are very aggressive, probably over-investing in our marketing dollars to build ourselves a commerce brand. And walking in, I think we've done a pretty good job—until you threw cold water in our face. But that's OK!



Ms. Edwards: We have to change people's perceptions from quite a long way, which is as an information source to being a commerce source. And it's great that when people get to the front page, they can look for shopping. But if they're coming there with a preconceived notion, an image of something else, they're not even open to it. And so that's kind of why we're doing mass-reach advertising on the commerce side.



WSJ: What kind?



Ms. Edwards: It definitely aims at perception. We're not running the kind of advertising where it's, "Oh, call this 800 number now" or "Go to this URL now." We're sort of trying to broadly change people's overall perception and their attitude about Yahoo.



Mr. Rogowski: People who have seen this say, "Oh, yeah. They do that now. That's great."



Ms. Edwards: People should say: "I get it. I get that Yahoo would help me find anything I want to shop for." So it's really clear communication.


It's the same thing where people understood when we ran a lot of earlier spots, which was, "OK, I can find anything." Now they should look at it and they say, "OK, I can buy anything."


Ad Presence

WSJ: But you did not have as much of a presence in the market as you used to—especially Christmas.



Ms. Edwards: We went early. We were early, like November, and you didn't see us as much once we were into the holidays.



Mr. Yang: Too noisy.



Ms. Edwards: We didn't do any radio.



Mr. Rogowski: From my perspective, it increased awareness of shopping online, so it could have been good for us in that way.



Mr. Yang: There was definitely sort of a halo effect.



Ms. Edwards: Well, there was a halo effect. And then I also think that when there's so much noise and chaos, it's a similar dynamic as to what happened in 1996. It's like when we first started becoming kind of this consumer brand, that Yahoo name, that untechie thing, we were like this beacon in the midst of all this chaos and noise—you know, techie noise. And now we're, I believe, the safe choice, the friendly choice, in this dot-com clutter environment.



WSJ: Are there any ads that you liked recently?



Ms. Edwards: I'm a huge fan of the print and outdoor that Red Envelope has been doing.



WSJ: Why?



Ms. Edwards: They're evoking an image. They're creating kind of a cachet for just giving gifts. And the name is distinctive. And then they deliver on that promise on the site. The products are all real—they don't have a huge, broad selection of things, and so they have I think a very carefully selected set of merchandise. And then they've got really good, convenient shipping, which I just think is an excellent customer service.


Other advertising—I definitely think that the E*Trade advertising is really smart—particularly who they're trying to reach in their audience. And I think that, given their space and who they're competing with, they're being really aggressive. They're spending everywhere you can spend money. And they're doing every kind of promotion you can possibly do. And they're giving their users every incentive possible. I mean, they are lifting the barriers of entry in that space so high that it's going to be tough for anybody else.



WSJ: Others?



Mr. Rogowski: E*Trade's "Money Out the Wazoo" makes me laugh every morning.



WSJ: What about you? What others do you like?



Mr. Yang: I don't remember anything else.



WSJ: Really? None of them?



Mr. Yang: I thought it was clever that we showed all the Super Bowl ads on Yahoo.



WSJ: So do you see now going and doing a lot of heavy media advertising to promote shopping, or do you not do shopping ads?



Mr. Yang: I think a big goal for us is, conceptually, from a branding standpoint, including outside the U.S., to make sure people feel like we're not an information brand. I think in the U.S., it's a very different challenge now. I think we're fairly established here.


But overseas and internationally, we still have some of those sorts of basic blocking and tackling that we need to do, so that people view us as more of a search engine—getting into the commerce space and communication space.


So I think those sort of things we will continue to address. But I'm pretty confident that by the end of this year, Yahoo domestically will be viewed as a major transactions medium—it's no big whoop, right? Then the question is, how do we extend that, and how do we take it to the next step?



WSJ: Which would be?



Ms. Edwards: I think that some of the messaging that will be important will be allowing people to think of Yahoo as a broad place to communicate in a variety of different ways. You know, people clearly get the sense that you can e-mail and you can chat and things like that. But there are so many different ways to communicate with so many different people on so many different channels and around the world that I think that's going to become something.


Ms. Swisher writes The Wall Street Journal's weekly "Boom Town" column.













ELEVEN

Compare and Contrast


BY DON CLARK



April 17, 2000



Daniel Ciporin sees the future of shopping in his hand.


The president of DealTime.com Inc. is holding a cell phone and describing a hypothetical visit by a consumer to a retailer to buy a digital camcorder.


The buyer finds a model he or she likes. Then, to illustrate the next step, Mr. Ciporin switches on the phone, travels to the DealTime site and navigates through a few menus on the tiny display screen.


DealTime—which collects prices from merchants on the Web and posts them on the site for users to compare—presents him with a list of online retailers that are selling the same camcorder. The list includes one that is $50 lower than the others—and beats the theoretical in-store price, too.


Click. The camcorder is ordered and on its way to the customer's house overnight.


"This," says Mr. Ciporin, "is a killer, killer, killer app."


The wireless scenario exemplifies the way Internet technologies are changing relationships between buyer and seller. The Web offers a multitude of ways to shop at one place and buy in another—or to haggle a merchant down to a price you like. A short version of the list includes online auctions, reverse auctions, name-your-price services, group buying, cyber-haggling and automated requests for proposals from merchants.


So it's not far-fetched to think that in a few years consumers may have close to perfect intelligence about an endless collection of discounts and deals. Many of today's obstacles—even physical location or the absence of a computer—will fade.


Between here and there, however, lies confusion—for both buyers and sellers.


For consumers, the problem is choice. The number of shopping systems online not only is large, it's also growing steadily. It will take time to sort out which of these services are best for which kinds of purchases—or which are needed at all.


For entrepreneurs who are starting these shopping services, there's a different problem. Most new shopping technologies that seem effective are quickly copied or purchased by rivals, notably big merchants such as Amazon.com Inc. and Yahoo! Inc., which have a huge advantage in financial resources and brand awareness. As start-ups struggle to get noticed, many are expected to sell out to the big cyber-malls before they get to become the next hot initial stock offering.


"A lot of these companies certainly add value in a consumer context," says Ram Shriram, chief executive officer of Sherpalo Ventures LLC, a Palo Alto, Calif., investment firm. "But the nature of the economics in that business is such that I don't see a long-term independent play for many of these companies."


Mr. Shriram has reason to think that. He was president of Junglee Corp., one of the first of the so-called shopping-bot services that extract price data from multiple Web sites and compile them, allowing consumers to easily comparison shop. In 1998, the company agreed to be acquired for $180 million in stock by Amazon.com, which used Junglee's technology to develop a comparison-shopping feature on its site. Several similar services were snapped up by bigger companies around the same time.


Now the consolidation pressures have appeared again, if at a higher price tag. MySimon.com Inc., another popular comparison-shopping service, agreed to be acquired by online news company CNet Inc.


Can DealTime, itself a shopping-bot service, remain independent in this environment? "It's a dead-on question," Mr. Ciporin says. "The answer remains to be seen."


It's also unclear which selling approaches yield the best results for consumers. The auctions pioneered by eBay Inc., for example, are undeniably effective for items that have unique attributes, such as antiques and collectibles. But buyers frequently get caught up in the heat of the bidding contest, paying more for goods than they otherwise would.


In contrast, the shopping-bot services offer more-generic products but give a range of prices. And one big problem for this type of site has eased. E-merchants once tried to block these services from gathering information from their sites; now most regard the bots as a positive force that directs traffic to them, says Mr. Ciporin of DealTime, based in New York.


Still, what you end up with on such a service are the prices the retailers are offering. What if you want to go lower than that?


There are a bunch of different models to choose from. First, the "name your price" method. Priceline.com Inc. allows consumers to say what they're willing to pay for goods such as airline tickets, then tries to match them with sellers who will meet those terms. The company, based in Norwalk, Conn., has subsequently broadened its service to offer hotel rooms, rental cars, home mortgages, cars and even gasoline. Consumers must supply their credit-card numbers upfront and accept any matched offer.


The upside: You can get good deals. But you may have to do some research to get them. For example, in the nine months ended last September, Priceline disclosed that only 50% of consumers' offers for airline tickets were what it defines as "reasonable," or no more than 30% lower than widely accepted fares. The result: a waste of time for consumers.


Other systems have evolved to make it easier for consumers to experiment and haggle. NexTag.com Inc., a closely held start-up in San Mateo, Calif., invites users to search its site for consumer electronics, computers and other products. The search generates a list of suppliers that have deals with NexTag, ranked by price including shipping charges.


If NexTag users want a better deal, they can submit, with no obligation to buy, an offer suggesting a lower price. If the offers fall within the suppliers' range, they may adjust their prices to get the business.


Some of the best results, the company says, have come from low-end products such as CDs, where a recording that might be found in a store for $17 has been purchased for less than $12, including shipping. "We were initially skeptical about doing low-priced products," says Rafael Ortiz, a NexTag vice president. "But we found it was widely popular."


Why? With relatively little to lose, consumers feel more free to experiment with low-balling. Suppliers, meanwhile, see the deals as a way to build sales volume for lower-margin products—and possibly lure consumers to buy more expensive goods from them.


An even more open-ended approach is presented by Respond.com, a closely held start-up in Redwood City, Calif. Instead of searching through predefined product categories, users are invited by the company's Web sites to come up with an open-ended request that resembles a conventional piece of e-mail. For example, a couple might say they are looking for a package to Maui that includes airfare, a condo and a rental car—for about $1,000 a week.


The users' names aren't given to suppliers. Respond.com forwards the e-mail anonymously to hundreds of travel agents, who may send replies that the company forwards to users. It is then up to the users to contact the supplier directly to arrange a deal, including the final price. Unlike many other shopping services, Respond.com does not try to get a cut on transactions; rather, it gets monthly fees from suppliers that want to use its service to find customers.


"It's similar to the Yellow Pages," says Will Clemons, Respond.com's chief executive officer. "What the businesses are paying for is customer leads."


In contrast to NexTag, Respond.com's e-mail approach is best suited for relatively high-ticket items, starting at $250, Mr. Clemons says. As much as a third of the site's activity is from people looking to spend more than $1,000.


Other companies try to get users to work together to get the best price. Companies such as Mercata Inc. and MobShop Inc. have developed Web systems that try to give groups of people the kind of volume discounts that companies have long enjoyed when they buy goods such as fleets of automobiles.


It works like this: A popular snowboard, for example, might be listed at a starting price of $200. But if 15 more people join a group to buy the product, the price might drop to $185. If 50 people join, the price might drop to $175.


Sales close in a fixed period of time, and users have an incentive to contact friends to get them to join the buying group. Like auctions, the interactions of multiple buyers and a deadline can combine to create the sense of a contest or a form of entertainment.


"The model that can create the most focused critical mass will generate the lowest prices," says Jonathan Ehrlich, a co-founder and vice president of MobShop, a closely held San Francisco company formerly called Accompany Inc. "You will create an incentive for a manufacturer to create the lowest price available."


So, how do these sites stack up? We conducted a (highly unscientific) test, searching for a Palm V organizer.


When MobShop was first consulted, the site showed that only 25 people had joined a buying group, so the cost for the popular hand-held device at the time was $264.95.


At NexTag, meanwhile, a search generated a list of 12 suppliers, pricing the device at $263 to $369, excluding shipping. A lower offer of $255 was submitted to both NexTag and Respond.com. No responses offering to meet that price were received. One retailer offering the Palm V at $295 simply wrote back, "We invite you to purchase the product at the current price."


At DealTime, excluding the opening prices listed by auction sites, a search found two sites offering the Palm V for $256; both were conventional discounters that simply treated the device as a classic loss leader to generate consumer click traffic.


Fast-forward two weeks: More than 26 people had joined the MobShop buying group and the price had dropped to $254.95, and the site said only three more buyers were needed to take the price down to $249.95.


Despite the apparent victory in this case for group buying, industry executives say that in many cases big merchants will stock inventory of thousands of units of loss-leader products, considerably larger than the likely buying power of MobShop and its rivals.


In other words, it's possible that technology or new-wave business models won't determine the best price: Consumers could simply remember the name of some online retailer with big volume and determination not to lose a sale on some products. That is, as long as the world of e-commerce remains as crowded as it is now.


"Some of these new business models are really temporary phenomena based on the fact that there are venture capitalists willing to fund merchants' losses," says Mr. Clemons of Respond.com. "Once that goes away, then the business model will have to evolve to generate real cash flow."


Mr. Clark is deputy bureau chief in The Wall Street Journal's San Francisco bureau.













TWELVE

Living Off Bytes


BY SHARON CLEARY



April 17, 2000



This was the challenge: Survive for a work-week eating only things that were provided by the Internet's growing crop of food-delivery services.









Well, all right: I changed the rules so that we were talking only about lunch and dinner—the early morning is no time to be wrestling with technology. I resolved that whatever happened, I would stick to my guns and live off the Internet (or, as a matter of survival, my own hastily made peanut-butter-and-jelly sandwiches).


Call me a pessimist, but I figured that, half the time, whatever I ordered wouldn't arrive or would suffer some awful mishap en route. I was wrong. As it turned out, I not only ate well, but also wound up eating my words. I learned that a smorgasbord of options—available from online grocers and meal-delivery services—await hungry Web surfers such as myself.


Setup was simple: For each site, I filled out an online delivery form—name, address, work and home phone numbers—and then specified a delivery time and a payment method. The services offered different delivery speeds—and some required a two-hour window that left you stuck at home on the lookout—but all of the services delivered within the promised time period. The one semi-exception was a courier with Food.com Inc., who arrived 15 minutes early for a 6:30 p.m. appointment. I wasn't there to accept the delivery, but he waited until I arrived home at the agreed-upon time, so no harm was done. As for prices, they varied as well—but most were competitive with my local store.


I took notes of what I ate each day, how I liked it, and the Web outfits that served as my supply lines.


This is a diary of my adventure.


Day 1

Monday, Feb. 14 (Valentine's Day)


What I ate

One large navel orange


One slice of blueberry crumb cake


12 leaves of butter lettuce


Two servings vegetable-filled ravioli with roasted tomato sauce


Numerous cups of coffee


Two glasses from a bottle of Villa Antinori Chianti Classico


Almost a whole bag of salt & vinegar potato chips (5 oz.!)


—ORDERED FROM WEBVAN.COM



Online grocer Webvan.com, owned by Webvan Group, Inc., Foster City, Calif., plans very carefully. Route-planning software provides each delivery-van driver a mapped schedule, with deliveries scheduled for every 10 to 30 minutes. Webvan.com has a warehouse in Oakland, Calif., where color-coded plastic containers with order-specific bar codes travel from room to room on conveyor belts, picking up groceries from different categories along the way. It's very impressive, and so was dinner.


I placed my order on Friday for delivery Monday afternoon between 5:30 p.m. and 6:30 p.m. That day, I rushed home from work to meet the Webvan courier: Frankly, I was less than thrilled by the prospect of a whole hour spent waiting for someone I wasn't sure would appear. So I was flabbergasted when Webvan's refrigerated van arrived at 5:35 p.m. David, the delivery man, unloaded the groceries on my kitchen table from a covered plastic container.


Taste Test

The oranges were great—when a friend and I broke them open, their scent filled the room. (I was also happy that sturdy dividers prevented the oranges from crushing the chips.) The butter lettuce was very fresh, and I couldn't help nibbling the blueberry crumb cake before dinner. The wine wasn't bad either: At the risk of sounding pretentious, it had a toasty-oak taste. (It probably would have worked better with a meat dish. I served it with the ravioli, but Webvan can't be blamed for that.) The prepared ravioli meal also turned out well—all I had to do was loosen the tops on the plastic containers and heat on high for three minutes in the microwave. Mangiamo! Instant Valentine's Day dinner. My only complaint was that the dish was a bit bland—not quite up to the pungent seasoning of Naples, Italy.


Day 2

Tuesday, Feb. 15


What I ate

Two blintzes with sour cream and raspberry sauce


One serving of vegetarian black-bean chili


One serving boneless chicken breast entree



—ORDERED FROM KOSHERMEAL.COM




Fresh-squeezed orange juice (64 oz.)


One bag of potato chips (5 oz.)


Two bowls of Breyer's mint chocolate chip ice cream



—ORDERED FROM PEAPOD.COM




Koshermeal.com, a subsidiary of hotel caterer Royal Palate Foods Inc., Inglewood, Calif., accepts next-day orders for complete breakfasts, lunches and dinners from clients who follow kosher laws. The online retailer attracts business travelers who aren't sure that they will be able to find a kosher dinner or don't want to worry about finding one at their destination. Also, Koshermeal is increasingly popular with non-Jewish customers who simply want a good meal.


Shipping is pricey: Koshermeal sends everything via FedEx. For packages under 60 pounds, shipment costs $27 for deliveries from Monday through Friday, and $40 for a Saturday delivery. (There are no deliveries on Sundays; the company is closed on Saturday for the Sabbath.) Because shipment costs don't vary with order volume, an organized eater could order an entire week at one shot, paying a single shipping charge—as long as it weighed less then 60 pounds. I placed my order at 12:30 p.m. on Friday. Half an hour later, I received a message on my home e-mail account, through which I processed all my orders. An apologetic note signed by the company's chief executive officer, Bill Pinkerson, said that I had missed the overnight shipping deadline by about 30 minutes and that Koshermeal wouldn't be able to process my order for delivery the next day. He did tell me the name and phone number of a San Francisco kosher restaurant that would be able to handle an order from me on short notice. I arranged for delivery of a full day's worth of meals for Tuesday of the following week.


The meals were shipped in a plastic-foam container filled with dry ice, with instructions for reheating the food and kosher certification included with each individually wrapped meal. As with the other deliveries, the food was stamped as having been "inspected for wholesomeness by the U.S. Department of Agriculture." A separate note with the chicken entree said it was "double-sealed so the food will remain kosher if it is heated in a nonkosher microwave oven." This operation doesn't fool around.


My other supplier, Skokie, Ill., online grocer Peapod Inc., is an 11-year-old company founded by brothers Andrew and Thomas Parkinson. Originally customers phoned in or faxed orders, but with the Internet's arrival, Peapod was revamped for the Web. Until recently, Peapod faced little competition—but in the past two years Webvan; HomeGrocer.com Inc., Kirkland, Wash.; and NetGrocer.com Inc., North Brunswick, N.J.; have entered the field, prompting Peapod to speed up its expansion plans. In February, the company obtained $120 million in financing from a group of five private investors to help along the company's growth plans.


I placed my order on Sunday, signing up for the first available delivery time—between 6 p.m. and 8 p.m. on Tuesday. The groceries arrived at 6:30 p.m. The courier brought the goods directly into my kitchen, and removed them from a partitioned plastic container similar to Webvan's (or vice versa).


Taste Test

Koshermeal.com's version of blintzes in raspberry sauce reminded me why breakfast is my favorite meal. The chili, while not as good as my best friend's mother's, drew jealous looks from my lunch mate. The chicken also sparked nostalgia—it tasted just like the chicken served in my elementary-school cafeteria. (I really do mean that in a good way.)


As for Peapod and its critical role in supplying my snacks: The fresh-squeezed Odwalla-brand orange juice was fresh and incredibly pulpy. Happily, the chips arrived whole. And how can you go wrong with ice cream?


Day 3

Wednesday, Feb. 16


What I ate

One coconut soda


One pineapple soda


Saffron rice


Olive oil


Extra-fancy long-grain rice


Organic sea salt saffron



—ORDERED FROM ETHNICGROCER.COM




One slice bruschetta (toasted Italian bread smothered in a mixture of tomatoes, onions, garlic and olives, soaked in balsamic-vinegar)


One serving veal scaloppine


One cannoli



—ORDERED THROUGH FOOD.COM AND PREPARED BY NORTH BEACH RESTAURANT FIGARO




I found EthnicGrocer.com Inc., a specialized online retailer, by accident. I had searched for "online grocers" using the AltaVista search engine, and EthnicGrocer was toward the bottom of the list. The name piqued my interest, seeming to promise more than a run-of-the-mill grocery experience. The Chicago company, backed by venture-capital firms Kleiner, Perkins, Caufield & Byers and Benchmark Capital, launched late last fall. EthnicGrocer.com ships anywhere in the 48 contiguous states. It offers detailed recipes from the cuisines of 15 countries, including Vietnam and Turkey, and supplies the groceries needed.


Food.com, which delivered my dinner, began in Seattle as Cyberslice in 1996, selling pizzas online. In early 1999, the company moved to San Francisco and changed its name. It has signed up about 13,000 restaurants to date, and gets a 5% commission from each order placed.


Food.com's ordering system prompts users to type in their ZIP Code and immediately generates a list of restaurants that deliver in that area. Customers then place an online order, and a computerized voice system from Food.com forwards the order over the phone to the restaurant. At 5 p.m., I placed an order from Figaro, a tasty Italian place in the heart of North Beach. I scheduled delivery for 6:30 p.m. Cannoli, bruschetta, ravioli and veal scaloppine with porcini mushrooms arrived at 6:15.


Taste Test

For lunch, I followed EthnicGrocer's recipe for the Spanish dish arroz con azafran (saffron rice) and was pleasantly surprised when an inviting aroma rose from the pot.


As for the dinner that Food.com brought from Figaro restaurant: Great cannoli. My brother said the bruschetta was good (and I'll have to take his word for it, since he ate all of it when I left the table to answer the phone). The veal was chewy, alas, and the mushrooms were tasteless. But Food.com just helps with online orders and not in the kitchen, so I couldn't hold it against them.


Day 4

Thursday, Feb. 17


What I ate

Three bowls of Kellogg's Frosted Mini-Wheats


One-half bag of Tostitos white crispy rounds


Three cups of coffee


Vast amounts of unscented Tide (for late-night laundry)



—ORDERED FROM NETGROCER.COM




One naan (an Indian flat bread)


One hearty portion of saag paneer (an Indian spinach-and-cheese dish)


One portion of lamb curry


Two vegetable samosas (curry-spiced potatoes and vegetables in a pastry shell)


Lots of mango chutney



—ORDERED VIA WAITER.COM FROM LOCAL SAN FRANCISCO RESTAURANT TANDOORI MAHAL




Waiter.com Inc., Sunnyvale, Calif., was founded in 1995 and bills itself as the first food-ordering service on the Internet. The company's president and chief executive officer, Craig Cohen, recognized a need for the service when he was designing chips (the kind that go in computers) at Sun Microsystems Inc. Mr. Cohen, a vegetarian, was tired of having his phone orders mixed up and figured he'd have better luck writing out his orders. So he tried to fax an order to a local sandwich shop, only to find the restaurant wouldn't take such orders from customers. Nonetheless, an idea was born: Today, Waiter.com posts menus for about 1,300 restaurants around the U.S.


As for NetGrocer: The online retailer sells non-perishable groceries—think dry cereal and paper towels—and ships them via FedEx for delivery within five business days. I placed my order on a Saturday and the package arrived Thursday—fast shipment not being crucial with dry goods. By the fourth day of my experiment, though, I was used to nearly instant gratification, so the wait seemed interminable.


Taste Test

I missed lunch on Thursday; to make up for it, I ordered a spicy Indian dinner through Waiter.com from a restaurant called Tandoori Mahal. The vegetable samosas were some of the best I ever tasted, and the leftover saag paneer still hit the spot the next day. So much for dinner.


As for breakfast and snacks: NetGrocer passed the crushable-chip test—the tortilla chips I ordered were wrapped in a protective layer of bubble wrap. But my Mini-Wheats didn't get special treatment and suffered the consequences—most of the cereal had been ground into little bits.


Day 5

Friday, Feb.18


What I ate

One large pizza topped with tomatoes, mushrooms and sausage


One large, very cold glass of root beer



—ORDERED VIA FOOD.COM FROM LOCAL PIZZA JOINT EXTREME PIZZA




Half-pint of Ben & Jerry's Chocolate Fudge Brownie ice cream


(Along with videocassette rental of Terry Gilliam's 1985 film Brazil)



—ORDERED FROM KOZMO. COM




Kozmo.com Inc. delivers urban essentials to slackers in many cities across the U.S. The New York company started delivering videotapes in 1997 and has expanded its offerings to magazines, compact disks, video games and snacks as its popularity has grown. Kozmo.com even delivers aspirin and cough syrup for cold sufferers stuck at home. Couriers deliver products to your door within an hour of your order; what's more, Kozmo.com will also pick up your video once you've watched it, and has video dropoffs located in countless small businesses such as pizza joints and cafes. Kozmo.com's representative arrived at my door just as Food.com's representative was leaving. The courier handed me the ice cream and the movie at my door and promptly disappeared down the building's stairwell to make another delivery.


Taste Test

On my last day, I cheated. I missed the skater-chic counter staff at the froufrou cafe downstairs from our office. I also missed what I never thought I'd miss—the early-morning competition among java-junkie office workers for the best place on line. (I'm a New Yorker—when it comes to aggression, I have a natural advantage over San Franciscans.) For lunch, I was coerced into eating a McDonald's hamburger (with large fries) by a co-worker who shares my occasional craving for trashy food. Delicious. But I got back with the Internet-shopping program by placing orders for that night.


The pizza was good—a friend who had been brought up on Chicago deep-dish pizza liked the crispy crust. I was partial to the tanginess of the tomato sauce. As for the ice cream, it was really rich—one dose was enough to sate any chocolate addiction. The movie Brazil also had a lot of flavor, but in a different, unsettling, way.


I placed the pizza order early that day with Food.com and specified a delivery window between 7:30 and 8:30 p.m. At 4:43 p.m. a Food.com representative—a real, live person—called to confirm my order. (That didn't happen the first time I ordered from Food.com, but the company says its customer-service department tries to do it whenever volume is light enough to permit.) The pizza arrived promptly at 8 p.m., and the pizza box was still hot.


The Conclusion

Despite my initial doubts, I learned that the Internet allows you to eat well without making you work too hard. Plenty of online retailers promise timely and tasty food at a comparably reasonable price—and, well, they deliver.


But does my week of good experiences suggest online food delivery will be a hit? George Dahlman, a food analyst with US Bancorp Piper Jaffray Inc., Minneapolis, anticipates solid growth from the industry. Mr. Dahlman says that annual grocery sales are in the neighborhood of $500 billion and that if online grocers can get just 5% of that, the industry will take in a whopping $25 billion. He's less bullish about the viability of restaurant-food delivery, though, calling that "a much more limited [market] space."


Overall, he believes, the success of food sales online depends on finding the right demographics. "The key will be how you can take something that's five blocks or one mile down the road and find out how much it is worth to [consumers] to have it in [their] home," Mr. Dahlman says.


As for me, on Friday evening I retreated into my apartment with pizza, root beer, ice cream and my movie and found myself utterly content that I had no need to leave for the rest of the weekend. As long as my digital-subscriber line keeps working, I'll never go hungry again.


Ms. Cleary is a staff reporter for WSJ.com in San Francisco.













THIRTEEN

Don't Shoot!


BY DEAN TAKAHASHI



April 17, 2000



In online gaming, euchre has trumped Quake.









Game sites have become electronic-commerce powerhouses. Roughly 19% of Internet users play games online, according to Forrester Research Inc., a market researcher in Cambridge, Mass., and game sites commonly win spots on lists of the 100 most heavily trafficked. Better yet, they're "sticky," meaning visitors tend to spend some time there. Little wonder advertisers flock to them.


But the online gaming world is not at all what the industry's visionaries had been expecting—namely, a host of "hard-core" players paying to take part in fast-paced 3-D shoot'em-ups like Quake, from Id Software Inc.


Though no one keeps an exact count, there are perhaps just over a million such hard-core gamers. But they're far outnumbered by 30 million more-casual game players, who drop by a site looking for a short break during work or just to relax at home. These gamers aren't interested in any site they have to pay for—though, as the market has developed, even the hard-core gamers generally aren't paying to play—and they're not after any fast action: The games they choose are often just online versions of such familiar diversions as Monopoly or even checkers. You might call them the online equivalent of sitcoms and television game shows—indeed, Sony Corp. draws millions to its site, The Station, where players can participate in "Wheel of Fortune" and "Jeopardy."


These casual games enjoy a technological advantage. Hard-core games, with their elaborate graphics and fast action, work far better with broadband, or high-speed Internet access. Casual games, with their typed chat messages and occasional mouse clicks, do fine with a standard connection.


And advertisers prefer the casual gamers, says Stewart Halpern, an analyst at BankAmerica Securities, because they represent a broader demographic than the mostly young, male hard-core gamers. Take Terry Mason, a 44-year-old tax consultant in Steubenville, Ohio, and regular player at pogo.com Inc.'s site.


"I like the simpler games like video poker and euchre," he says. "I could never get excited about Nintendo and computer games, but these online games give me a rush." Casino games, in particular, provide some of the excitement of gambling without the risk of losing actual money. No die-hard gamer when he started, Mr. Mason now plays two to three hours a night.


One other reason advertisers favor the casual gamers is that they are more likely to notice and check out ads than their hard-core counterparts, who are often too immersed in firing rockets to see anything outside their targets. By contrast, the casual games can operate at a very relaxed pace indeed: One thing Mr. Mason enjoys during his gaming evenings is sharing stories with online friends—from as far away as Australia—whom he has never met in person.


And, of course, advertisers like the numbers. Sites offering the casual games—also known as mass-market, family or classic games—draw crowds. Pseudo-gambling, lotteries, fantasy sports leagues, games for prizes, trivia and board games like Monopoly have become hits.


Still, casual games aren't a slam-dunk business. For one thing, the games themselves are so simple to create that there's virtually no barrier to entry.


Consider Yahoo! Inc., which became one of the biggest providers of simple online games in the past couple of years based on the work of just one or two game developers, says Michael Latham, director of production for the media and entertainment group at Yahoo, based in Santa Clara, Calif. Now it has to guard against competitors swooping in and stealing its audience by offering a few more games or better prizes. Some companies spend lavishly to prevent poaching, driving themselves deeply in the red.


Of course, losses aren't rare or even unwelcome among Internet businesses. And whatever the problems in the casual-gaming business, the sites are capturing eyeballs. That's why even the companies that had invested heavily in the pay-to-play concept have shifted their eggs to the casual-gamer basket.


"People built state-of-the-art Internet technology, invested $30 million to $40 million, created the best experience in games, and the gamers didn't want to pay anything for it," says Paul Matteucci, chief executive officer of HearMe Inc., which operates the Mplayer.com online game service and runs a voice-chat Web site as well.


San Francisco-based pogo.com is a prime example. It began life in 1995 as Total Entertainment Network Inc., built on the belief that avid game players would gladly pay $20 a month to compete against one another on the Web—much as they pay for premium cable-TV services such as HBO. Eventually TEN even started a "professional gamers league," hoping that watching other people play online games would become as common a form of entertainment as watching professional athletes play their sports on television.


TEN, which began its service in 1996, did attract about 25,000 paying customers—but the masses never materialized, for reasons that in hindsight are obvious. To play required the patience to deal with the problems of the Internet, the money for a powerful computer, and the time and interest to develop skills at the complex games. And one first had to download a program that modified the user's Internet browser—and wasn't easy for neophytes to install.


"It was enough to whet the appetite but not enough to support a real business," says Erick Hachenburg, then vice president of business development at TEN and now chief executive of pogo.com. "Online games was a $15 million to $20 million revenue stream that cost you $20 million to run. The audience was too small, the long-term growth wasn't appealing to advertisers, and people just didn't want to pay."


They especially didn't want to pay once the free alternative came along: Game publishers such as Havas SA's Blizzard Entertainment unit, creator of the wildly popular Starcraft science-fiction game, torpedoed TEN when they began offering free online games on their own Web sites as a way to promote retail sales of their games. Gamespy Industries Inc., based in Newport Beach, Calif., also began distributing software that made it easy for Internet players to find one another without needing to meet at online game sites.


"That destroyed pay for play," says Mark Surfas, chief executive officer of Gamespy.


TEN had no choice but to make its games available free of charge and hope advertising revenue alone would support the business. In December 1997, the founders of TEN called it quits and Mr. Hachenburg took over.


"The nice thing about hitting the abyss was that you could change everything," Mr. Hachenburg says.


The company simplified its software and reopened as pogo.com, offering such games as spades, hearts and euchre. Liberty Media and Nokia Ventures liked the new strategy so much they invested $30 million in pogo.com. By mid-1998, pogo.com began distributing its games on other heavily trafficked sites, signing deals to provide games to portals such as Excite.


Now Pogo has more than three million unique visitors a month, each spending an average of 2.5 hours monthly. Advertisers like the broad demographics of the site; about half of its players are women, Mr. Hachenburg says. The closely held company isn't profitable yet, but revenue is about 50% higher than at the peak of the previous strategy.


Interactive Magic Inc. and Mpath Interactive Inc., a couple of TEN's rivals, were likewise forced to switch to free games; like TEN, they even changed their names, to iEntertainment Network Inc. and HearMe. As its name may suggest, the latter—though it has more than four million game players—has switched its focus to its voice-chat technology, which allows people to talk over the Internet without paying long-distance phone charges.


"We could have gone into casual games, and have to some degree," says Mr. Matteucci. "But it's indefensible turf, where someone else can put up the same poker game within a week. We had to stick with something that built community, which builds loyalty. That was where voice chat came in."


IEntertainment Network still charges for its Dawn of Aces and Warbirds combat flight games, but it is expanding into card and board games.


The example of the failed attempts at pay-for-play hard-core games has been absorbed by new entrants into the online gaming market. Such companies as iwin.com, Gamesville.com, and Uproar Ltd. (with its Uproar.com site) went straight for the casual gamer—and are being rewarded with the biggest numbers in Internet traffic.


Gamesville, bought last year by Waltham, Mass., portal company Lycos Inc. for $207 million in stock, gives away prizes, in the process collecting detailed data on customers, whom it then targets with specific advertisements.


"We can do mass or personal advertising at the same time," said Steve Kane, CEO of Gamesville.


Uproar, founded in Budapest, Hungary, in 1995, but now based in New York, has focused on making online versions of such TV game shows as Family Feud and Match Game, as well as other casual games such as Trivia Blitz.


The company's registration filing for an initial public offering—it aims to raise up to $110 million—provides some insight into the world of the casual-game site. It shows that the number of registered users on the site grew to 5.2 million in December 1999 from 96,000 in January 1998. The number of advertising impressions, or times players looked at ads, and the number of advertisers in 1999 were both twice what they had been the year before.


Uproar ranks fifth in overall stickiness, according to research firm Media Metrix Inc., and its demographic reach is broad enough to have attracted advertisers ranging from Walt Disney Co. to Gillette Co. and Microsoft Corp. The ads are visible as banners all the time, and Uproar can also insert fullscreen ads as players wait for the results of games to be calculated.


Uproar had a loss of $38.7 million last year on sales of $10.4 million, compared with a loss of $5.8 million on sales of $1.6 million in 1998, according to a regulatory filing. Product development, including fees paid to license rights for game shows, amounted to just $3.7 million for the year, compared with $28 million for sales and marketing. Uproar went public in March at $27 a share, and in the first two weeks of trading the stock sank to less than $18. Still, even with that decline, the company's valuation has often been well above $500 million.


"What we're offering is all about accessibility for the widest audience,"says Kenneth Cron, chief executive officer. "By delivering brand-name game shows, we can differentiate our games from the other casual-game companies. But we're investing heavily to keep gamers."


Despite the triumph of the casual-gamer model, some believe that the day of the hard-core online gamer—even the revival of pay for play—is coming. One reason: High-speed Internet connections are at last becoming relatively common. And the newest machines from Sega Enterprises Ltd., Sony and Nintendo Co. have Internet connections, so those three companies' many customers will soon be playing online games.


Some companies, such as Electronic Arts Inc., Redwood City, Calif., have successfully snared relatively narrow groups of game fanatics who pay to play. In Electronic Arts' Ultima Online game, about 150,000 fans dish out a $10 monthly fee—in addition to what they paid for the game itself—to be characters in a fantasy land called Brittania. These are some serious fans—so dedicated that they've put up with dozens of game revisions and bid hundreds of dollars at online auctions to take over the accounts of powerful characters.


"People thought it was impossible to get anyone to pay for games online,"says John Riccitiello, president and chief operating officer of Electronic Arts. "But we figured out the formula." Though the company spends millions upgrading the game and running the site, it says the site nonetheless makes money.


Of course, some fans can be too fanatical. For Ultima Online, Electronic Arts maintains a team of technical support members who have to be ready at a moment's notice to deal with electronic break-ins by hackers, who may be interested in anything from stealing credit-card numbers to creating hazards for their opponents in the game. Chris Vogel, producer of the game, says one hacker created a "trap" that caused a computer crash when characters walked into a certain area of the online world.


Even with all the risks, big players are forging ahead. Electronic Arts is creating ea.com, an online subsidiary for which the company has established a separate tracking stock, and it will pay $81 million to be the exclusive games provider on America Online Inc. One of its biggest rivals, Havas, recently bought Prize Central Networks Inc., one of the fastest-growing sites for casual games. And LucasArts Entertainment, the San Rafael, Calif., game unit of George Lucas's Lucasfilm Ltd., has teamed up with Sony and Verant Interactive, San Diego, to create an online "Star Wars" game.


Microsoft continues to invest in both casual games like euchre and elaborate hard-core games. One is Asheron's Call, a role-playing game in which players masquerade as swords-and-sorcery characters. Another is Fighter Ace II, a multiplayer game for which participants pay $10 a month.


The company's MSN Gaming Zone has 100 games and 12 million registered users, of whom 72,000 may be playing at any given moment. Users organize 800 tournaments a week.


The site isn't profitable, but advertising revenue is 10 times what it was two years ago, and Microsoft has plans to push it higher. One idea is being applied in a new version of Monster Truck Madness, a game in which players drive gigantic off-road vehicles around a 3-D landscape. Toyota Motor Corp. will place ads on the truck images used in the game, and also sponsor a tournament in conjunction with a live truck sports event. Such advertisements stand a much better chance of being noticed than the typical banner advertisement on a Web page, says Eddie Ranchigoda, product marketing manager for the MSN Gaming Zone.


Adds Ed Fries, general manager of Microsoft's games division: "That's the kind of thing that you can do in an interactive online game that really expands the way the advertiser can reach the customer. That's how we're going to become attractive to advertisers of all kinds in the future."


Mr. Takahashi is a former Wall Street Journal reporter.













FOURTEEN

Stalled


BY SHOLNN FREEMAN



July 17, 2000



If you think any industry can easily be tamed by e-commerce, think again.


Consider the labyrinthine business of distributing parts to car and truck repair shops.









On this front, the opportunities for e-commerce look enticing. The industry is fragmented, and glutted with middlemen.The parts makers sell their wares to giant warehouse distributors. These giants in turn sell goods to smaller players called "jobbers" that have their own warehouses to hold local inventory. The big distributors also sell to various retailers, such as the Memphis, Tenn., auto-parts chain AutoZone Inc. and the Philadelphia-based Pep Boys—Manny, Moe & Jack.


By the time the wheel bearing or a motor mount has been sold to an installer who has put it into a vehicle and billed the customer, more than half the price paid for that part has gone into the pockets of one or more middlemen.


This profusion of players adds days to vehicle-repair times. It leads to chronic problems with excess inventory, mix-ups and availability. Moreover, with so many buffers between the far-flung parts factories and the commuter who is stuck with a dead car, there is no easy way to gauge product demand.


Yet despite a flurry of investment in e-commerce aimed at streamlining the auto-parts market, no overarching e-parts strategy has yet emerged to obliterate the middlemen.


"E-commerce people are attracted to the inefficiencies" of the vehicle-parts business "because of the massive amount of inventory and the large number of distributors," says James Lang of Lang Marketing Resources Inc., based in Wyckoff, N.J. "But it takes an incredibly established bricks-and-mortar infrastructure."


There are more than 201 million cars and light trucks on U.S. roads, and the vast array of parts needed to fix them must sit somewhere ready and waiting. "It's not like an office-supply store, where if they don't have one size paper clip, another size will do the job. There is no flexibility with a vehicle. You have to have the exact part to get the vehicle on the road," Mr. Lang says. And so as the business has evolved, this inventory reality has led to an industry dependent on the thousands of middlemen across the country who get the right parts from the manufacturers to repair shops.


The parts manufacturers so far have balked at selling directly to repair shops, even though the technology is already here to allow that. Manufacturers don't want to alienate the warehouses by taking their valves and struts directly to service garages over the Web. This is the same "channel conflict" that keeps manufacturers in many other industries from embracing the habit of selling online.


"E-commerce will definitely have a place, and will take costs out of the system," says Pat Biermann, president of HD America, a St. Louis-based warehouse distributor. "But I don't see installers buying direct from suppliers and cutting out middlemen. It's not like buying a shirt or a cigar over the Internet."


A person who buys a shirt over the Internet and gets the wrong color might be able to live with it. But there are thousands of auto parts, from air cleaners to drive axles, and the tiniest mistake in order identification renders the part useless for the installer. Moreover, when parts are ordered by phone, there is often considerable back-and-forth between the repair garage and the parts middleman.


Consider the collaborative approach taken by one 14-month-old online parts store, Wrenchhead.com. Gus Conrades, the start-up's chief executive officer, says the old-line industry is "riddled with inefficiencies." The company began by selling parts directly to do-it-yourself enthusiasts. But last month, it introduced business-to-business software that refers orders from parts installers to traditional distributors. Many of these distributors still take orders by phone, adding 10% to the final cost of the part, Mr. Conrades says. He says he could reduce that overhead to 2%: "It's a supply-chain tune-up, not a blow-up.


"We try not to disrupt current relationships. We don't want to take margin away from anyone," he adds. "There are true barriers to entry into this industry. As long as we keep our heads down and keep our focus on product development, we'll do fine."


One parts manufacturer that is leery of selling directly over the Internet is Tenneco Automotive Inc. of Lake Forest, Ill., a $3.3 billion-a-year supplier of suspension and exhaust-systems parts. Even though Tenneco could sell directly to repair shops online, the company isn't even considering it, says Dave Gabriel, senior vice president of Tenneco's North American aftermarket operations.


"Our interest in the Internet right now is not flattening the distribution channel," Mr. Gabriel says. Tenneco needs the middlemen, he says, particularly for their distribution networks, which move and deliver a lot of the company's products.


Tenneco is using the Web to take orders from a handful of its bigger customers—mostly big warehouse distributors and retail muffler-repair chains, which are using the system to buy exhaust-system parts. But the company isn't allowing repair shops to use that system.


There are still dozens of start-ups floating ideas to restructure the so-called aftermarket. Some of the many players in this camp are Carstation.com, MechanicNet.com, eKeystone.com and PartsMerchant.com.


"We are being flooded with people who have dot-com scenarios," Mr. Gabriel says. "There are going to be people who get in and out of the business with several models. The situation is very, very fluid." While the company plans to stick with existing channels, Mr. Gabriel says, Tenneco will continue to consider e-commerce possibilities.


Mr. Gabriel and other executives in the industry are mindful that e-commerce still could spur a broader restructuring of the business.


Some of the big retailers in the replacement-parts market already are pushing into each other's territory, sometimes using the Internet as a wedge. NAPA Auto Parts, which primarily sells parts to repair shops, recently launched a Web site targeting the do-it-yourself business. Meanwhile, AutoZone, the biggest parts retailer, wants to expand from its base of selling to do-it-yourself customers by improving the credit and delivery services it offers to repair shops.


These forces already are causing the jobber ranks to shrink, says Mr. Lang of Lang Marketing Resources. He estimates that the jobber population has seen yearly declines of 2.2% for the past three years. And he expects the numbers to shrink even more. By 2005, he predicts a jobber population of 15,500, a decline of about 4,700 from current levels.


One closely watched Web strategy in the auto replacement-parts industry is iStarXchange, a new company whose initial investors include Toyota Motor Corp. and i2 Technologies Inc. of Dallas, a top provider of supply-chain-management software. IStarXchange wants to take key players online under an industry-wide standard. Jim Andrew, vice president of business development at iStarXchange, says the venture is currently trying to sell the concept to industry executives and is working to identify the "allergies" or points of resistance that different players have to the concept.


Mr. Andrew says the group is close to announcing major partners for the effort. "To make everybody happy," he says, "iStar has got to provide value to each player in the marketplace."


Mr. Freeman is a staff reporter in The Wall Street Journal's Detroit bureau.













FIFTEEN

Clicks and Mortar


BY WILLIAM M. BULKELEY



July 17, 2000



Remember when the world was supposedly flocking to Internet start-ups for goods and services? When Internet entrepreneurs were outflanking their real-world competitors? When to be a brick-and-mortar company was to be, well, yesterday's news?









Welcome back from cyber-space.


Today, established companies are starting to recapture customers who had threatened to leave them forever. They are learning how to use their bricks to win the clicks. And the result is a startling transformation: While the Internet tsunami isn't going away, it's clear that the young upstarts won't be riding this wave alone.


"A year ago, I truly thought it was over," says Alan Krensky, president of Colpitts World Travel Inc., a 109-year-old Dedham, Mass., travel agency. "Now, I think we're going to do fine." Since then, he says, many customers who tried Internet-based travel services have come back to Colpitts. In addition, the agency has started its own MeetingPartners.com site where it promises to negotiate discount rates for convention planners.


One of those returning customers is Kenneth Johnston, vice president of Allstate Polyethelene Corp., a packaging company in Enfield, N.H. Last year, hoping to save money, Mr. Johnston ordered employees traveling on business to start making their own reservations using Internet-based travel services.


But early this year, he told them to go back to using human agents at Colpitts. "I found I was paying my people to be travel agents,"he says. "I said, 'Let's put a stop to that.' "


A similar tale is told by Lindsay Albisani, who owns a computer-networking company in Tucson, Ariz. Ms. Albisani got sick of paying commissions at A.G.Edwards & Co. last year and switched to E*Trade Group Inc. But after several months trading for herself, she learned that Merrill Lynch & Co. had started allowing Internet trading for a fixed annual fee. She moved her account there. Today, while she still tracks stocks on the Internet, she finds she usually calls her Merrill adviser when she wants to make a trade. "He talks to me," she says. "Professionals know the market better than I do."


That wasn't the way it was supposed to be. To Internet moguls and the venture capitalists who backed them, brick-and-mortar businesses used to look the way canal builders looked to the railroad barons 160 years ago—stagnant, sluggish and doomed.


Today it is the Internet entrepreneurs who are trying to survive the counterattacks of the clicks-and-mortar companies. Many of the 400 Internet IPOs since 1995 have fallen below their offering prices. Stocks of e-tailers like Pets.Com Inc., CDNow Inc. and Peapod Inc. now trade under $5.Toy e-tailers Red Rocket and ToySmart Inc. have been shut down.


"These [Internet] companies are like pilots flying into a canyon and suddenly finding they can't climb fast enough to get out and there's no reverse," says Ted Dintersmith, a partner with the venture-capital firm Charles River Ventures in Waltham, Mass.


What happened? Quite simply, the bricks woke up. A year ago, most established companies had assigned their information-technology staffers to work on the problems computers might have in turning the year 2000. But with the Y2K problem in the past, the Internet now has old-line businesses' full attention.


"Everywhere you go, CEOs only want to talk about the Internet," says Sanjay Kumar, president of Computer Associates International Inc., a big software supplier to Fortune 500 companies.


Staples Inc., R. H. Macy and Toys "R" Us Inc. now sell on the Web, using their name recognition and customer loyalty to win clicks. In the business-to-business market, auto and airplane makers and plastics companies have announced their own Internet exchanges, hoping that if anyone is going to make transaction profits it will be the manufacturing giants. Intermediaries like real-estate agents and car dealers moved onto the Web and demanded they be kept in the action. Universities started peddling their own courses online—and making sure that the upstarts didn't get accreditation quickly.


The result is that while few Old Economy companies are making money on the Internet, they have made it clear they won't surrender their customers without a fight. They may be loath to take big losses, but they loathe losing customers even more. And that means that even if they don't know what they're doing online, they will be able to block the dot-coms' path to prosperity.


Staples, for instance, is pumping millions into its Staples.com unit, which it says will have a loss this year of $250 million on sales of $150 million. For the first quarter, Kmart Corp. reported its 59% stake in its online arm, BlueLight.com, had an after-tax loss of $11 million, reducing the parent's net income 33% to $22 million.


Such a willingness to take big losses and make occasional missteps bodes ill for pure-play Internet companies.


Even after a series of management and financial disruptions, Toys "R" Us has become the No. 2 toy site in cyberspace, behind the pure-play eToys Inc.


Jon Foster, a former Lazard Freres investment banker who joined as chief operating officer this year, says he is confident toysrus.com will attract visitors because "we have one of the three best-known brands in America for families," along with Disney and McDonald's.


Mr. Foster says that during Christmas, while eToys had 2.1 million visitors a week, "we had 1.4 million visitors a week." That demonstrates the power of the brand, he says.


Having an established relationship with customers in the physical world makes it much cheaper to relate online. Boston Consulting Group says that it costs Internet-only retailers $82 to acquire a new customer, compared with $31 for store-based retailers to get an online customer and just $11 for catalog-based retailers.


Linda Rossetti, chief executive of eMaven Inc., a Boston e-strategy consulting firm, says for pure-play companies, "the need to establish a relationship online is one of the most costly activities." She says that is a problem in business-to-business exchanges and online publishing as well as selling to consumers.


To be sure, many of the bricks aren't doing e-commerce very well. Shelley Taylor, president of Shelley Taylor & Associates, a market-research firm in Palo Alto, Calif., says that in a recent study of 100 e-commerce sites, her company found that the dot-coms provided better service, delivery and returns than traditional companies. "The brick-and-mortar companies aren't translating their history into the new medium," she says. "They have a lot more sizzle and a lot less substance than they do in the brick-and-mortar world."


Moreover, intermediaries in some businesses, such as car dealers and real-estate firms, are so expensive that eventually, someone is likely to figure out a way to cut them out of the picture, says David W. Kenny, chairman of Digitas Inc., a Boston-based consulting firm that advises auto makers and banks on moving to the Web.


What's more, nobody can deny that the pure Internet companies can shake up an industry. In some areas, such as computer software and book retailing, Internet sellers are wiping out independent stores that were already under pressure from land-based category killers.


And while companies in concentrated industries with fewer than a dozen buyers or sellers may be able to manage the big business-to-business merchandise exchanges, there's lots of room for Internet plays in fragmented industries with hundreds of buyers and sellers, says Walter Buckley, president of Internet Capital Group Inc. "We've identified 50 markets, and we've invested in companies in 34 of them," Mr. Buckley says, citing USGift.com, a gift-industry site, and eMerge Interactive Inc., a cattle-industry trading site.


There also are growing signs that the consortia of big companies who are normally bitter competitors won't be able to hold together. For example, Ford Motor Co., which signed a highly publicized agreement for a joint procurement site with General Motors Corp., recently entered a multiyear agreement to buy steel through e-Steel Corp., a New York-based exchange.


And in May, Starwood Hotels & Resorts World-wide Inc., having decided it couldn't complete a planned consortium with Marriott International Inc. because of "differences in philosophy," said it would invest in Zoho Corp., Sunnyvale, Calif., and use it for purchasing supplies.


Mr. Bulkeley is a staff reporter in The Wall Street Journal's Boston bureau.













SIXTEEN

Price Buster


BY DOUGLAS A. BLACKMON



July 17, 2000



Once and for all: Is it all those price-grinding business-to-business marketplaces and deep-discount retailing sites on the Internet that are slaying inflation?









Absolutely not.


Electronic commerce, despite its dizzying growth, "just isn't big enough to account for anything," says Lee Price, Commerce Department undersecretary for economic affairs.


Indeed, online transactions are still such a small slice of the U.S. economy that their impact on the country's overall economic performance is slight. Moreover, the streak of annual low inflation numbers began years before Amazon.com Inc. existed or anyone other than computer geeks had heard of the Internet.


In the first quarter of 2000, online retail sales totaled $5.26 billion, according to the federal government, or just 0.7% of the total economy's $747.8 billion in retail sales. The government doesn't yet release measures of business-to-business electronic commerce, but Mr. Price estimates that those sales similarly amount to less than 1% of commercial transactions.


"The Internet is still a very small fraction of all sales," says Eric Brynjolfsson, a business professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. "So even though there are clearly some lower prices, you multiply that by the share of sales in the whole economy, and it really doesn't make much of a dent."


But mathematical certainty isn't the whole story.


Many New Economy prognosticators maintain that the Internet eventually will be a major factor in pricing. The idea is that prices will be driven downward as business-to-business online markets allow an endless number of suppliers to bid competitively for contracts with big manufacturers.


Retail e-commerce sites, the thinking goes, will cut consumer prices by pitting a multitude of product sellers against one another, allowing Web-surfing buyers to quickly identify the lowest possible price for any good. Web-based search engines will also provide buyers with more information—and bargaining power—about products than ever before.


Whether those predictions come to pass will depend on several factors, most importantly how much economic activity finally does move online. But there are other issues, too. Some Web sites, such as Priceline.com Inc. and Webvan Inc., attract large volumes of business, but don't necessarily push down prices for their competitors in the traditional economy. Indeed, economists say the Internet's biggest impact on inflation may actually come not from price competition, but from how the Web subtly reduces the routine costs of doing business.


In some respects, the Internet in its infancy has borne out the expectations of sharp price cuts in the goods sold online. Freemarkets Inc., a publicly traded B2B exchange based in Pittsburgh, has hosted online reverse auctions—in which suppliers bid for factory's component orders—involving $5.4 billion of transactions. Among the companies using Freemarkets are Owens Corning, SmithKline Beecham PLC and Visteon Corp., the auto-parts unit spun off by Ford Motor Co. last month.


Sandy D. Jap, an assistant professor of marketing at MIT, studied the results of auctions of about $500 million of goods by one of Freemarkets' biggest suppliers last fall and earlier this year. Those auctions attracted new suppliers, reduced prices and cut the costs of transactions, she says. "We found that you definitely save money," she says.


Freemarkets says that on average, online prices in the auctions have been 15% lower than what companies previously paid for the same products.


"All of the factors are in place for kind of a downward price pressure inherent in the Internet to have an effect on the national and global economy," says Glen Meakem, Freemarkets' chairman and chief executive officer.


But Ms. Jap also found that pure price competition isn't necessarily the most effective way to deal with key suppliers, and that could shape the Internet's ultimate impact on inflation, regardless of how many sales go online.


Relying heavily on Internet auctions, Ms. Jap says, would run counter to recent efforts by many big manufacturers to develop ever more complex relationships with their suppliers. In return for a preferred status, for instance, suppliers take on expanded responsibilities including design and engineering work, all of which require long-term investments. Those kinds of relationships become a tough sell if the manufacturer begins launching price wars on the Internet.


"We found that suppliers tend to feel more exploited in an open reverse auction rather than the traditional sealed bid," Ms. Jap says. "If a buyer were to rely on these reverse auctions repeatedly in the future, the suppliers will feel beat up and the supply base will consolidate. They either exit the industry or consolidate. The long-term picture could be very bleak for a buyer. You could see a very powerful supplier."


As a result, Ms. Jap says, big manufacturers are likely to use Web technology more to cut costs by streamlining their relationships with suppliers and to give periodic "reality checks" on pricing through open auctions.


Retail sales on the Internet have encountered similar results. Early on, seemingly innumerable entrepreneurs created competing "virtual" markets, all of them freed by the Web from the burden of operating brick-and-mortar stores. Soon, more than 6,000 sites, according to one study, were selling books, for instance. Prices fell sharply at market leaders, such as Amazon.com and barnesandnoble.com Inc., often below the company's costs. But according to a study by Mr. Brynjolfsson, the one operation that had the lowest prices nearly all of the time, Books.com, went out of business. Barnes & Noble acquired the shuttered company's Web domain name late last year.


It turns out that while Web markets almost always restructure how prices are developed, they may not drive them down. Buyers place a value on—and are willing to pay for—the familiar brand of a particular seller, on the security of being able to see a product at a real store before buying it, or in a trusted relationship with a particular merchant or supplier. Mr. Brynjolfsson found that instead of using the Internet to demand the lowest possible prices, customers are willing to pay up to $3 a book more at Amazon than other sites.


"Consumers perceive a product coming from Amazon as having a different value than a product coming from a generic bookseller," Mr. Brynjolfsson says.


Look at Priceline, where customers can offer their own prices for airline seats and other products.


Priceline sells some seats at lower-than-normal prices, but its inventory comes largely from seats that airlines have determined will go empty otherwise. The result is that Priceline creates a new discount market for customers with very flexible travel plans, but doesn't significantly affect the supply and demand—or push down prices—for business and vacation travelers, who buy most airplane tickets.


Webvan, the online grocer operating in Seattle and Atlanta, competes mostly by promising top-notch service, such as perfectly selected produce, and delivery of goods to a customer's kitchen counter. But its prices are generally no lower than those of old-fashioned supermarkets.


Instead of pure pricing pressure, the explanation for why inflation has remained in check may have more to do with the Internet's technology siblings than the Web itself. First, the cost of technology itself has fallen steeply in the past 10 years, according to the government. Computer prices, for instance, declined by 26% a year between 1995 and 1999. That decline in the cost of technology has cut the country's overall inflation rate by a big one-half of one percentage point in recent years, says Mr. Price, the government economist.


Besides reducing the inflation rate, the falling prices have made technological innovations accessible to far more companies. Back in the late 1980s, when giant corporations drew gasps as they announced that tens of thousands of people were being laid off, it seemed impossible that any company could continue its most basic functions with so many workers vanishing.


But rather than employing thousands of clerks, for example, to process weekly payroll checks and type memos, companies began cranking out payroll and correspondence using then-exotic software that would look rudimentary today. The same goes for basic word-processing programs, cheap high-quality printers and, later, e-mail. The combination of those during the 1990s began to seriously reduce the number of workers needed to create the millions of letters and documents that are the backbone of business. Now, Internet markets, with or without price auctions, allow big companies to communicate with each other instantly, examine each other's inventory and alter orders to maximize efficiency of their factory operations.


The spread of that kind of basic technology, often over the Web, continues to accelerate. The Internet's broadest impact on inflation may be as a vehicle for democratizing digital efficiency into the most mundane parts of the economy.


"It's very hard to draw the boundaries of what you want to see as the cause and what you want to see as the effect,"Mr. Price says. "My view is that where the Web and technology are going, there are going to be lots of salesmen and purchasing people's jobs for whom technology is just more efficient. . . . That is where the action is."


Mr. Blackmon is a staff reporter in The Wall Street Journal's Atlanta bureau.













SEVENTEEN

Euro-Bots


BY DAVID PRINGLE



July 17, 2000



Simon Renny types the words "Catcher in the Rye" into a search engine on the Web site ShopSmart.com. One click and 15 seconds later, the London-based accountant has a list of five U.K. stores with the book in stock, the total price they charge and how long they take to deliver. He selects a retailer called Gillihams, which lists the second-cheapest price and second-fastest delivery time. (The cheapest was one of the slowest.)









Mr. Renny has never heard of Gillihams Ltd., an online retailer based in London, while he recognizes one of the other retailers listed, well-known retail chain Waterstones Booksellers Ltd. But he says he "would always go for price and delivery time rather than name." By buying at Gillihams, instead of Waterstones, Mr. Renny is able to get J. D. Salinger's classic novel delivered for a total cost of GBP 7.54 (about $11) rather than GBP 9.44 (about $13).


As they become savvier about buying online, large numbers of Europeans like Mr. Renny are visiting comparison-shopping services known as bots—also called shopbots throughout Europe—to help them locate the biggest bargains on the Web. Though bots don't yet cover every retail sector, it's relatively easy to find European comparison services for such online shopping staples as books, videos, CDs and software.


With the help of a television advertising campaign, ShopSmart.com, run by London-based ShopSmart Ltd., was the eighth most popular retail site in the U.K. in April, attracting 399,000 visitors, according to London-based research firm MMXI Europe. CNET.com, a technology comparison-shopping service run by San Francisco-based media company CNET Networks Inc., attracted 407,000 Europeans in the same month.


If other consumers follow Mr. Renny's example and plumb for the best deal regardless of brand, bots are set to put unknown online retailers on a more equal footing with their widely recognized brick-and-mortar counterparts. Indeed, the companies that run these services believe that they are altering the balance of power between big and small retailers.


Nicholas Lovell, chief financial officer of ShopSmart, says comparison-shopping engines make it easier for an online retailer without a large marketing budget to get noticed. "We do provide a level playing field for lots of people," he says.


Moreover, the millions of dollars that some retailers plow into marketing may be better directed into cutting prices and speeding delivery. That said, even in a world where a retail offering is distilled down to its bare essentials, a well-known brand could provide an important edge. Analysts reckon that many bot users will be prepared to pay a small premium to buy from a retail brand they know and trust.


Some brick-and-mortar retailers are uncomfortable with bots' narrow focus on price and delivery. Sue Jenvey, Internet marketing manager at Waterstones, says the problem with bots is that they don't give the consumer all the relevant information. For example, she says, Mr. Renny could have purchased Catcher in the Rye for GBP 6.99 from Waterstones if he was prepared to pick the book up from a store, rather than have it delivered. Ms. Jenvey adds that if Mr. Renny changed his mind, he could have returned the book to a Waterstones store for a full refund. But none of that information was available on ShopSmart's listing.


Mr. Lovell says ShopSmart allows the consumer to bypass most of the material on a retailer's site, homing in on the salient information."There is no point in clogging up the consumers' bandwidth with all the additional eye candy,"he says, estimating that ShopSmart's computers view only 1/20th of the data that would be accessed by a human shopper to retrieve the same information.


Of course, many online retailers like Waterstones regard this so-called eye candy as important marketing and promotional information that helps the consumer choose where to shop. Still, analysts say that some discount online retailers could dispense with conventional marketing, on the assumption that if they cut their prices sufficiently, the bots will deliver a steady stream of prospective buyers.


"Retailers can go after very specific consumers without going for banner advertising or a marketing campaign," says Carrie Johnson, associate analyst with Forrester Research Inc., a market-research firm in Cambridge, Mass. "Instead of running a banner ad saying 15% off VCRs, you go straight to the shopping engine where you know the customers are."


Online discount retailer Buy.com Inc., Aliso Viejo, Calif., receives a large volume of traffic from bots, says Ms. Johnson.


Gordon Henderson vice president of Buy.com's U.K. unit, says, "They are the most efficient customer-acquisition engine I have. . . . I just wish there was more of them." But he won't disclose what proportion of Buy.com's sales originate from bots.


Mr. Henderson says Buy.com's U.K. unit doesn't spend money advertising on Web sites. Instead, it focuses on ensuring that it has the cheapest prices on the Internet. Buy.com's staff uses bots to gauge how it compares with the competition, and the company will change its prices on an hourly basis if necessary.


There's anecdotal evidence to suggest that bots already are contributing to a shakeout among online retailers. Elisabeth Schick, chief executive officer at bot DealTime Europe AG—a Heidelberg-based joint venture owned by New York-based DealTime Ltd. and Germany's Bertelsmann AG that offers comparison-shopping services in Germany, the U.K. and Italy—says one U.S.-based technology retailer asked if it could be removed from the evenbetter.com comparison-shopping service, now owned by DealTime, because it was always shown to be more expensive than its five main rivals. The retailer was removed from the service. But in any case, Ms. Schick says, this company has now switched its focus to the business market.


But even in the apparently egalitarian world of bots, well-known companies have an edge. "If Amazon is only a little bit more expensive, it can still get the sale," says Ms. Schick, referring to Seattle-based Amazon.com Inc., the leading online book retailer. He believes a well-known brand could attract a premium of as much as 15%.


"If you have a good brand," adds Lars Waagstein, an analyst in Stockholm for New York-based Jupiter Communications Inc., "maybe you can go over the lowest price by 10%, but not 50%,"he adds. Retailers who believe their brand is an asset can pay to have their logos displayed on DealTime Europe's service.


Ms. Jenvey at Waterstones says that although she's wary of the bots' narrow focus, her site does receive a "fair amount" of traffic from shopping engines. And she has no qualms about cooperating with bots. "It's good for us, in that it helps us get our name out there," she says.


Other retailers also have mixed feelings about bots. "They make life easier in some ways . . . [but] what happens to brand value?" asks Steven Blackburn, online marketing director at U.K. video-games retailer Gameplay.com.


Mr. Blackburn says that although bots do attract customers to his store, he would be loath to abandon advertising. "You still have to maintain that brand presence to retain control of your own destiny," he says. "Slowing down what you spend on marketing because other people are doing it [for you] is not a wise move—they might drop you from their service."


Indeed, not all retailers are welcome to join some bot services. For example, ShopSmart, which has sites in the U.K., Germany and Sweden, will compare prices only from Web sites that can respond quickly to its own computers' queries.


"You can't be a mom-and-pop shop," says Mr. Lovell of ShopSmart. "You need to provide a fast response."


In practice, that means that in each of the four categories it covers—books, music, video and games—ShopSmart compares prices at fewer than 10 online shops. The service lists retailers according to how quickly they respond, which, ironically, could penalize popular Web sites that are busy dealing with other customers.


And ShopSmart will include only retailers that agree to pay a flat fee of 50 pence to #1 for each referral, in addition to a commission on any sales. The commission varies according to the kind of products involved, but is usually on the order of 5%. DealTime Europe also asks for referral fees and commissions.


Although both ShopSmart and DealTime Europe accept advertising, they maintain that their comparison services are objective and neutral. DealTime Europe doesn't take advertising from companies that sell products included in the price-comparison service. In any case, Jupiter's Mr. Waagstein says: "If you can't compete on price, then you shouldn't try to advertise on these sites."


Mr. Pringle is a staff reporter for WSJ.com in London.













EIGHTEEN

Late to the Party


BY RANDALL SMITH AND CHARLES GASPARINO



July 17, 2000



Between the fall of 1998 and the spring of 1999, investors' feverish enthusiasm for online stock trading sparked a tremendous upward surge in the stocks of securities firms specializing in online brokerage, led by market leader Charles Schwab Corp.









The trend posed perhaps the greatest challenge to Merrill Lynch & Co., the No. 1 brokerage firm and the one with the largest army of traditional, full-price, full-service brokers. Starting in late 1998 and continuing into the summer of 1999, Schwab not only passed Merrill in total stock-market valuation, but also began reporting more new-client asset inflows.


Merrill's quarterly inflows ran comfortably ahead of Schwab's for the first three months of 1998, then went into a steep nose dive—not long after the former head of its brokerage business, John "Launny" Steffens, was quoted disparaging what he called "the do-it-yourself model of investing, centered on Internet trading."


At the worst point, Merrill's net inflows of only $4.6 billion for the second quarter of 1999 were less than one-fourth that of Schwab's $21.6 billion, according to research by the Salomon Smith Barney unit of Citigroup Inc., which compared Merrill's U.S. inflows to Schwab's total inflows.


The comparison looked even worse for Merrill considering that its total U.S. client assets of $1.17 trillion at the end of 1998 were more than double Schwab's $491.1 billion. That meant that by mid-1999, Merrill's annualized growth rate had fallen to 1.6%, compared with 15.9% for Schwab.


In June 1999, Merrill took drastic action to turn the tide, announcing an online offering that would compete against Schwab and other e-brokers on price, at $29.95 a trade. Clients looking to trade online with a broker's advice, Merrill said, could use another offering called Unlimited Advantage with a flat annual fee of 1% of assets, starting at a minimum fee of $1,500.


The impact has been dramatic. The trend in client-asset inflows has reversed, and Merrill regained the edge over Schwab in absolute dollars, if not in percentage-growth terms, by the end of 1999. In the first quarter of this year, Merrill's inflows topped Schwab's, $48.1 billion to $44 billion.


Steve Galbraith, who follows securities firms at Sanford Bernstein & Co., noted that the trend in Merrill's asset flows turned up "literally a few months after they went online" because of the psychological lift it gave the firm.


"They really had a tough time of it internally, fighting the new era, and externally being viewed as a dinosaur," says Mr. Galbraith. "It's not per se the actual offering, although we do think it's robust and highly competitive. I would argue the inflection in their business is attributable to some of the psychic benefits of going online. It just energized the whole firm."


Still, Merrill isn't exactly eating Schwab's lunch. Schwab officials note that for every account moved to Merrill by a former Schwab client in a so-called transfer of assets, Schwab gets 1.5 account transfers from former Merrill clients. That ratio has held consistently, with slight fluctuations, for several years, they say. What's more, Schwab's client inflows are still running well ahead of Merrill's in percentage-growth terms.


"Neither firm is winning at the other's expense," says Daniel Leemon, chief strategy officer at Schwab. "The net new money is primarily coming from new places, primarily banks and new money. The investable assets of Americans are growing at 10% to 15% annually."


What's more, the client inflows into Merrill aren't all flooding into the online offerings. Of the $48.1 billion in first-quarter inflows, only $6 billion went into Merrill's new Unlimited Advantage fee-based program, which offers online trading, and just $1.7 billion went into the $29.95-per-trade ML Direct online accounts. ML Direct remains tiny, with just $2 billion in assets and 16,000 accounts.


Online-brokerage analyst Greg Smith of the Chase H&Q unit of Chase Manhattan Corp. says he doesn't believe Merrill is aiming to dominate the Internet trading with its online menu. As evidence, he and many other analysts note that Merrill hasn't gone all out to promote the $29.95 online service—out of deference, they say, to its 14,000 full-service brokers. "I don't think they're ever going to promote that product," Mr. Smith said. "This was something they felt they needed to retain some accounts. At the end of the day this was defensive rather than offensive in nature."


Merrill executives say they are taking in larger accounts than they're losing in the transfer-of-assets tug-of-war, and dispute the notion that their online offering was defensive. "Our promise was to deliver a world-class offering, and we did it," a spokeswoman says. "We have every intention of growing the channel."


Guy Moszkowski of Salomon Smith Barney notes that while client-asset flows between Schwab and full-service firms such as Merrill are still in Schwab's favor, "they're not nearly as much in Schwab's favor as they were. And that would indicate that Merrill and some of the other firms have gotten some traction with their new pricing and by providing their customers with Internet access."


Adds Sanford Bernstein's Mr. Galbraith: "I think it just shows that there was an acute need for [Merrill] to get into the current era with an online offering, even if the actual offering hasn't had massive inflows. It's just part of the integrated thing such that clients no longer view them as completely uncool."


In an interview with The Wall Street Journal, Merrill Lynch Chairman and Chief Executive Officer David H. Komansky explained that the firm was slow to respond to the technological challenge because it didn't want to "blow up" its existing full-service business model. Excerpts:



The Wall Street Journal: What were some of the challenges you have faced over the past year?



Mr. Komansky: Certainly during that period of time, it has been the impact of technology. We were admittedly slow to respond to [technological changes], and that became exacerbated in the investment community and here in the firm. I think probably the seminal event, because it received so much publicity, was our response to the technological revolution. While we responded slowly, I think there were very good reasons for it.


We had a situation where we just happened to have 14,000 [brokers], the largest and most successful business in the world, and this was being faced by the challenge of the Internet and the online business. What took us, frankly, so long to respond was not a recognition that it was real, that we had to change our business plan. What took so long was how to do it without blowing up what we had. The persona we developed was that we were Luddites.



WSJ: What fostered that perception?



Mr. Komansky: I don't know where it came from. People interpreted what they perceived to be a lack of response, and that was that. We had a certain amount of clients who wanted to deal in a virtual environment. We were punished perception-wise, and it hurt us in the [price-earnings ratio] of our stock. Strategically, I happen to believe that the next generation of investor is more likely to be found in that environment.


But how to do all this without blowing up what we had is a very difficult thing to come upon. It's easy to read The Innovator's Dilemma and say you've got to blow up the business. [But advocates of such a course] don't have 70,000 employees, shareholders and a lot of people relying on you not to destroy what we have, but rather to adapt what we have to a changing environment.



WSJ: Tell us why you think the Merrill Lynch online offering can compete with some of the more established online brands.



Mr. Komansky: Because what we really developed, I think, without debate is the broadest platform of choice for investors that exists in business today. We feel we have the best offering, whether that is a channel with a [broker] or with our Unlimited Advantage asset-based pricing, or whether that's with a direct channel. Today in my opinion, we went from single-channel market offering to the broadest range of choices. That was our answer to the virtual environment. By including a menu of choices, that was the secret to how we managed what we have done. And the Unlimited Advantage turned out to be the single most popular product we ever introduced other than the Cash Management Account. It has been a roaring success. We think we accomplished a hell of a lot.



WSJ: Given that you had so much to lose because of the size of the brokerage sales force, it's interesting that you offered a product to compete directly with brokers. You didn't go halfway.



Mr. Komansky: I don't think there's any point doing these things halfway. You want to go into business with the objective that you're going to be No. 1. That enabled us to go at this as aggressively as we did.



WSJ: How well are you doing compared to your competitors in attracting customers to your online offering? Are the competitors still taking more customers from you than you are from them?



Mr. Komansky: We are satisfied with the overall inflows of net new assets, which hit bottom in the second quarter of 1999 and have steadily increased in each quarter since then. These flows have been better than key competitors', and we consider them the best measure of how we're doing in the private-client business.



WSJ: What role did Merrill's board play in forcing the firm toward offering online trading?



Mr. Komansky: This is a complex business. All members of the board are quite capable of understanding the problems and the environment. But they are not professionals in the business. Certainly as far as the virtual environment goes, several thought we should have moved more rapidly, and they expressed those opinions.



WSJ: Do you think some of the personalities in the brokerage division, namely former brokerage chief John "Launny" Steffens, made it more difficult for the firm to move faster in online trading? After all, who can forget his now-infamous quote that "the do-it-yourself model of investing, centered on Internet trading, should be regarded as a serious threat to Americans' financial lives"?



Mr. Komansky: Clearly that quote has been repeated many, many times and has been turned against him. The real crime about that was that Launny, in my opinion, was the father of invention as far as technology is concerned in this business. He introduced Merrill Lynch Online [the firm's initial Web site, which allowed clients to access account information] long before people gave it any credit at all. But what everybody focused on was that quote. Interestingly enough, that quote turned out to be 100% right.



WSJ: In what ways?



Mr. Komansky: Think about it. That quote focused on day trading, and take a look at what has happened in the last three months. Unfortunately, his statement was interpreted totally on one end of the spectrum. And it made him a lightning rod of much abuse. But he has never been given his due, in my opinion, on what he accomplished in technology on the private-client side.


Messrs. Smith and Gasparino are staff reporters in The Wall Street Journal's New York bureau.













NINETEEN

Dad's Online Adventure


BY LAURA LANDRO



July 17, 2000



At age 62, John Curran was ready to pack in four decades in the retail business and enjoy retirement until his friend Roger Horchow, 71, came along with another idea. Now Mr. Curran has a snazzy job at an Internet e-tailing start-up, a growing proficiency with technology and a 31-year-old boss.


As chief merchandiser and virtual-store manager at GoodHome.com, Mr. Curran is responsible for the look and style of the interior-design and home-furnishings site, backed by publishing giant Hearst Corp., and promoted via such Hearst magazines as Good Housekeeping, Town and Country and House Beautiful. It is an anchor tenant on America Online Inc.'s home shopping page, and starting this fall, it will be featured in a five-minute segment on each of 52 episodes of a new syndicated Sunday-morning program from Hearst Entertainment, "Famous Homes and Hideaways." After hostess Donna Hanover takes viewers on tours of fabulous homes, GoodHome.com will tell them how to duplicate the decor at home.


Messrs. Horchow and Curran became friends in the 1970s, when Mr. Curran was a representative for the George Jensen silver collection on the West Coast and Mr. Horchow was buying for the Neiman Marcus catalog. Mr. Horchow eventually created the Horchow Collection and sold it to Neiman Marcus; Mr. Curran went on to work in key merchandising posts at Bonniers, Federated Department Stores (where he developed the first line of home furnishings for Bloomingdale's) and Gump's. He also had a consulting business, which developed merchandising strategies for such clients as William Sonoma.


In 1992, Mr. Horchow, then a member of the merchandising committee of the board of the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York, helped recruit Mr. Curran as vice president of merchandising, where he oversaw 18 stores, 36 licensees and an extensive catalog and wholesale business. He was leaving that post in 1999 when he heard from Mr. Horchow, who had hooked up with nHabit.com, a start-up that was in discussions with Hearst about a possible link. Mr. Curran didn't know the first thing about the Internet and had never used a computer, but he was intrigued by the idea of the Web as "another channel of merchandising." He consulted his son Jeff, who had started a Web site for his own home-furnishings catalog, and Jeff asked him the question his father had often asked in the past: "Great merchants always follow their intuition—what is your first instinct?"


Meanwhile, Doug Mack, a young entrepreneur whose résumé included McKinsey & Co. and General Electric Co., was talking to Hearst about an idea of his own. As an executive at Broderbund Software, he had developed and launched the first consumer software product for home decorating. In February 1999, Mr. Mack proposed to Hearst a GoodHome.com site that would use his technology and some Hearst home-decorating content. Mattel Corp., which then owned Broderbund, agreed to let Mr. Mack spin off the technology into a new company in exchange for a small equity stake, and Hearst and others provided cash.


Hearst brought Mr. Mack and nHabit together, and the two sites agreed to merge, under the GoodHome name, with Mr. Mack as chief executive and Messrs. Horchow and Curran as the creative experts. The site merged with another home-furnishings site, FurnitureFind.com.


Mr. Curran says he is intrigued by the convenience aspect of the Web, but has had to get used to the very different approach. "With a catalog or a store display, you don't put it in front of the customer until it is perfect," he says. "With a Web site, there seems to be a huge push to get everything out there, and then you can fix it as you go."


For Mr. Mack, having the collective experience of executives like Mr. Horchow and Mr. Curran is key to combining traditional retail design and merchandising strategies with leading-edge technology that enables consumers to shop and design rooms online. The decorating program allows users to point and click their way through room scenes, customizing fabrics, wallpapers and window treatments. It also provides decorators' recommendations for products that can mix and match with a selected item, and lets users put different pieces of furniture and knickknacks in rooms to get a sense of scale and style.


GoodHome.com offers more than 75 room scenes with decorating ideas, and classifies products into styles such as Urban and Country. Users can order swatches for 2,000 types of fabrics, pick out a couch or chair, and have it delivered free and assembled if need be. For the latest stylish products, they can click onto Mr. Horchow's column, "Roger's View," in which he highlights an item such as china plates that users can purchase online.


Mr. Curran's job "is to be our virtual store manager, to make sure the store is in great condition, and that we are showing the right products," says Mr. Mack."He is the internal consultant who makes sure everyone is behaving and thinking like a merchandiser."


As for the interesting twist on the father-son relationship, Mr. Mack says, "There is so much irony in the fact that at this point in his career John's the one who is the Internet entrepreneur."


And though the two Currans have tended to avoid doing business with each other, there may be room for some collaboration now. The Curran catalog's sisal-rug business "is better than anything they have to offer, so we're going to talk to them about what we can do together," Jeff says.


Ms. Landro is a senior editor for The Wall Street Journal in New York.













TWENTY

Change of Tune


BY LISA VICKERY



July 17, 2000



Atuba is not a book. No dispute. But can tubas, bassoons, piccolos and other musical instruments be sold successfully over the Internet?









It depends on whom you ask.


"We have people who drive for hours just to try a dozen different instruments," says Dennis Bamber, president and owner of Woodwind & Brasswind, a musical-instruments retailer in South Bend, Ind. "I don't think that people will buy three-four-five-thousand-dollar instruments without talking to somebody. Sometimes it's just imperative to be there in person to try it."


While his company is building up its Internet presence to complement its sizable and well-established mail-order business, Mr. Bamber believes e-commerce is mainly suited for commodity items, such as violin strings, saxophone reeds and electronic keyboards, and can go only so far when it comes to instrument sales. "We have 50 tubas out on the sales floor. Tubas aren't going to sell on the Web," he says. "It's not like books."


Jonathan Axelrod, one of three co-founders of retailer Music123.com, begs to differ. "We ship upright basses. We ship tubas to Brazil!" he says, adding there's been "a ton of international interest" in his site from countries where the musical-instrument shopping options often aren't as great.


He agrees there is a fundamental difference between selling books and selling instruments, but sees that quickly changing. As to whether he thinks there will always be that need to feel the keywork or blow in a woodwind, he says "instruments are more consistent than they've ever been," taking away some of the uncertainty about how they will perform. Like Woodwind & Brasswind, his company allows customers to sample a few instruments at a time during a trial period.


For those used to the more traditional way of selling instruments, the arrival of the Internet has been like turning a page to an abrupt key change. Granted, mail order has been encroaching on businesses for some time. But the Internet is bringing on competition double-time. It is flooding shoppers with information on brands, models and dealers. It's putting downward pressure on prices of new instruments, and even a bit of upward pressure on the price of used ones, thanks to eBay and other auction sites.


Perhaps keeping the tempo of change from getting too brisk, however, musical-instrument makers are treading cautiously into the new Internet terrain, hand-selecting dealers in hopes of keeping tight control over their products—and reputations.


"Conflict is going to be huge" when it comes to distribution channels, says Scott Estes, owner of Violins Etc., which has "low markup, lots of volume," selling stringed instruments over the Internet as well as through one store in Austin, Texas. He says some manufacturers won't even let him sell their instruments.


"Some parts of our industry are very old," says Joe Lamond, director of market development at NAMM-International Music Products Association, a trade group. "Some distribution channels have been set years ago, in relationships that go back generations," he says, and aren't that open to change.


"They freaked out when UPS came on the scene," Mr. Lamond says. "They freaked out when Sears Roebuck started selling instruments through their catalog at the turn of the century [because] their lock on the small town was gone." But, he adds, "one by one" they'll decide how to deal with the Internet. Meanwhile, he's trying to "keep all our members focused on the big pie," as the Web presents a great opportunity to improve efficiency and push the cause of music, expanding the market.


The $6.8 billion U.S. music-products industry remains highly fragmented, with an estimated 9,000 storefronts, mostly small mom-and-pop shops, and a total of about 120 superstores, run by giants such as Mars Music Inc., Sam Ash Music Corp. and Guitar Centers Inc.


Manufacturers are very selective about which dealers get authorization to sell their products. They believe that because oboes, violas, flutes, clarinets and the like are expensive, can vary greatly and require regular adjustments and repairs, dealers must know what they're doing. And they also exert some influence over how items are advertised.


Yamaha Corp. of America, one of the leading manufacturers of musical instruments and sound equipment, has a range of policies dictating how its products can be sold over the Internet, if at all. For starters, dealers must have an existing brick-and-mortar presence to even contemplate selling over the Web, something that just about every other major instrument maker requires as well. Also like many other manufacturers, Yamaha restricts how aggressively a dealer can solicit business. For instance, prices can't always be posted.


For certain big-ticket items, like pianos, Yamaha forbids Internet sales completely. Terry Lewis, senior vice president at the company, a subsidiary of Yamaha Corp. of Japan, says the policy reflects a belief that only land-based retailers can give the needed post-sale care and customer service. Yamaha also is trying to prevent scenarios in which a shopper spends two or three hours in an established store—essentially mooching off the dealer's investment in inventory and staffing—and then surfs the Web for a better price.


"Resistance to opening up the Internet could be perceived as resistance to price competition," Mr. Lewis says, but he argues that isn't the case: "We aren't against price competition. We have lots of piano dealers around the country. We support that and don't try to restrict price."


But in this business, Mr. Lewis says, more than price is involved. He recounts an episode with a Belgian retailer that became very aggressive on the Internet selling digital pianos, to the point where he was selling to U.S. customers products designed and packaged for the European market, with different power-conversion specifications and user manuals. "I've never seen such a flood of consumer remorse," he says, adding that Yamaha's U.S. customer-service department had to mop up the mess.


It wasn't until last November that Fender Musical Instruments Corp., the maker of guitars used by stars ranging from Jimi Hendrix to Eric Clapton to Kid Rock, gave the green light to Internet sales, reaching a deal first with Guitar Centers, based in Agoura Hills, Calif., which has a mail-order and e-commerce unit called Musician's Friend. Ritchie Fliegler, vice president of marketing for Fender, says the Scottsdale, Ariz., company first needed guarantees that its "brand equity" would be protected. It wanted to know how its products would be showcased, because through the Internet, the brand is "represented to the world."


Fender has since reached dealer agreements with other companies for Web sales, including Music-123.com. Fender likes its products to be showcased with color pictures, not just a laundry list of models available. Dealers also have to abide by the minimum advertised prices.


Some dealers have their doubts about Web shopping for instruments, but have taken the plunge anyway. Bob Page, co-owner of Buffalo Brothers Vintage Guitars, a store in Carlsbad, Calif., says he personally wouldn't want to buy an instrument over the Web. "This is a mystery to me, and I don't know how people do it," he says. But his brother Tim started up their Internet site four years ago, and it has brought in a lot of new business. The thing that makes the Web sales work, Bob says, is that his store, which has been in business since 1971, spends a lot of time with customers, asking what kind of music they play and what they don't want to spend.


Buffalo Brothers also invested in a digital camera, diskettes and other equipment so it could send photos of guitars over the Web to customers. It has also played guitars over the phone, to give Web shoppers a sample of the sound.


For niche businesses, the Internet can be perfect for raising awareness and providing information. Midwest Musical Imports, based in Minneapolis, specializes in double-reed instruments—oboes, bassoons and English horns (not to be confused with French horns)—things you can't find in every town. Michael Aamoth, who started the business in 1984, says he previously depended on word-of-mouth. But since going on the Web in 1996, "sales have skyrocketed, probably between 50% and 70%," he says. Where three years ago he had three employees, he now has more than 12. "We have visibility and accessiblity to customers we didn't have before," says Mr. Aamoth, who himself plays oboe.


Likewise, Violins Etc. says that because the Internet brings in shoppers from all over the world, its reach goes way beyond its Austin store. Mr. Estes, the Violins Etc. owner, says sales are growing 50% a year, now topping more than $1 million annually. When he opened his Austin store seven years ago, he did it with the Web in mind, and has been selling on the Internet for about 5 1/2 years. A former engineer who worked at Dell Computer Co., he aims to duplicate Dell's model of direct sales. He estimates that only about 3% of merchandise gets shipped back, "and it's almost always an upgrade" to a more expensive instrument.


Violins Etc. isn't geared to professional musicians, most of whom wouldn't dream of buying sight unseen."A 2-year-old kid doesn't need a $600 violin," Mr. Estes says. Still, while it started out selling $100 violins, the average price of a sale has risen to $700. "We recently sold a violin in China for about $18,000. They bought it over the Internet," Mr. Estes says with some amazement, adding that he had somebody hand-carry it there. "I sell more antique violins over the Internet than in my store," Mr. Estes adds, noting that he also uses eBay as a way to attract violin shoppers to his Web site.


A chunk of Violins Etc.'s Internet business is international, with customers in places such as Costa Rica and China. That means customers in China are buying violins made in China, at three factories used by Violins Etc. "There are consumers in those countries that have the money, but they don't have the stores," says Mr. Estes.


Finding a business ripe for the Web was the goal of Mr. Axelrod of Music123.com, based in Cherry Hill, N.J. A year or so ago he was working at consultants McKinsey & Co., when he and a colleague, Stephen Zapf, went on the prowl for some way to get on the Internet bandwagon. They turned to Mr. Zapf's family business, Zapf's Music, established in 1928, now with three stores in the Philadelphia area. "We used the retail stores as a platform to launch our Internet operations; it would be impossible to go to the manufacturers without these retail locations." He won't disclose whether Music123 is profitable, but says that "we make money on every instrument we sell."


Mr. Page of Buffalo Brothers, meanwhile, muses about how Internet auction sites are inflating the prices of used instruments. Mr. Page, who sells both new and used guitars, says he's seen a guitar that Buffalo Brothers would tag at $219 going for $305 on eBay. "People come into guitar shows saying that they want $2,000 [for a particular instrument], and when we tell them it's worth $1,400, they say, 'But that's what I saw it on eBay for!' Then we're the bad guy."


Ms. Vickery is a news editor in The Wall Street Journal's New York bureau.













TWENTY-ONE

That Old Spirit


BY SHELLY BRANCH



July 17, 2000



Working for his family's Indianapolis liquor distributorship in 1988, J. "Smoke" Wallin saw firsthand how the spirits industry was parched for technology.









He would lug samples to supermarkets on a trolley, scribble down orders and call them in on a pay phone. New systems arrived soon afterward, giving him hope. "They gave me this big square brick of a terminal," says Mr. Wallin, who recalls struggling with a clunky hand-held device that rarely worked. "I thought, 'This is automation?' "


The beverage-alcohol world remains a Byzantine place. Liquor stores and restaurants must place orders with multiple distributors just to keep shelves stocked. Now, a decade after Mr. Wallin's own fumblings, he is among a handful of dot-com pioneers trying to get the industry up to Internet speed.


In the complex $106 billion U.S. spirits trade, online business-to-business formats may seem overdue. But the industry's "three tiers"—suppliers, distributors and retailers—are tightly controlled by government regulations. The tiers, each powerful in their own right, have done little cooperating. Distributors are typically assigned specific territories and product lines. This makes them compete fiercely for suppliers' resources and new items.


Adhering to a labyrinth of state and federal rules has made technological progress all the more slow and difficult. Legally, tiers are prohibited from by-passing each other in getting booze to the consumer.


As some suppliers, notably wineries, sought to sell directly to consumers online, "there was a buzz about a year ago that all the industry's middlemen would be put out of business by the Internet," says Joel Whitaker, editor of Kane's Beverage Week, a trade newsletter. Those middlemen, or distributors, currently rack up sales of about $15 billion annually, excluding beer and wine.


Realizing what's at stake, Mr. Wallin and others want to uncork the Web's business-to-business potential. They are getting the beverage industry wired and setting up exchanges that improve efficiency.


Several B2B exchanges have sprung up, including WineBuyer.com and PickYourBrands. But two arrived first and have acquired some clout. One is Mr. Wallin's exchange, called eSkye.com, based in Indianapolis and founded in early 1999. His main rival is BevAccess.com, which started up two years ago in New York.


The distributor-led eSkye has agreements with seven of the nation's 10 largest wholesalers, and has persuaded 550 retailers in Illinois and Michigan to use the system. BevAccess has signed deals with 16 major wine and spirits distributors and is currently operating in New York and New Jersey.


The fledgling exchanges share a similar mission: to create an electronic marketplace where restaurants and retailers can access offerings from multiple distributors. The goal is to push many of the industry's B2B transactions onto the Internet.


The exchanges would be a milestone cooperative effort between the finicky three tiers. "The wine-and-spirits industry has been behind the curve in making use of electronic media," says Dave Dickerson, spokesperson for the Wine & Spirits Wholesalers Association. "So this is a pretty exciting time for us."


The shift is seismic. Of the country's 550,000 licensed spirits retailers, many are mom-and-pop stores. Some never bothered to install computers; others think fax machines are high-tech. Retailers large and small still sift through paper manuals to gather data about prices, sales and new products from some 4,500 distributors nationwide. Payment methods are only slightly more advanced: To this day, some retailers hand over cash to truck drivers delivering vodka, wine and gin.


Suppliers also have much to gain. Traditionally, they have had little access to what's happening at the retail level. Exchanges could gather juicy data about consumer buying patterns and other barroom trends. Suppliers, in turn, could buy this fine-grain data and use it for targeted promotions.


In the spirits business, as in most others, "information is always the most precious commodity," says Tom Pirko, a beverage-industry consultant. "There's a democratization of business now because of the Internet. That means more and more power has to be shared."


Exchanges ideally will see revenue flow in from several sources. Suppliers such as Seagram Co. and Brown-Forman Corp. would pay for ads and promotional materials on the sites. And order fulfillment will probably generate fees.


The first problem is getting participants. "The vast majority of customers are not wired," Mr. Wallin says, "and that has to be a part of our solutions." ESkye is working with computer supplier Ingram Micro Inc. to get smaller shops hooked up, he says. "I think eventually half of the whole market will order through the Internet."


ESkye also wants to get distributors excited about the concept. Mr. Wallin and his team had an advantage in this area. In addition to his family roots in the business, he serves on the board of the powerful Wine & Spirits Wholesalers Association.


Mr. Wallin's competitors have suggested eSkye may be too closely tied to distributors to be an impartial service provider for all three industry tiers. Mr. Wallin maintains that if distributors didn't pull together to make B2B e-commerce work for them, some Silicon Valley types eventually would fill the void anyway.


Mr. Wallin secured several types of financing. Venture-capital firms and other strategic partners kicked in about $55 million. Mr. Wallin set aside 15% of eSkye's shares to be split among wholesalers who use the system.


BevAccess founders Derek Bromley and Greg Ahnert took a slightly different approach. Last June, the former restaurant and hotel managers rolled out technology they had developed for the BevAccess site. Using their old connections, the college buddies first targeted "on-premise" clients, such as restaurants and bars. They set out to enlist distributors in the New York area and expand as their reputation and financial backing would permit.


BevAccess, its founders stress, isn't aligned with a specific industry tier and doesn't have financial backing from distributors. The company is owned by Messrs. Ahnert and Bromley, who are co-CEOs, along with several venture-capital and strategic partners that have kicked in about $13.5 million.


BevAccess stressed time savings to its early customers in the New York area. Mr. Bromley told them that the order process, which takes an average of three hours a week offline, could be reduced to less than 20 minutes with BevAccess.


Juan Rodriguez, chief steward at Le Cirque 2000 in New York, used to ring up seven different distributors to keep his restaurant's martini and highball glasses full. "I'd wait hours for them to call me back, and I did this twice a week," Mr. Rodriguez says.


The BevAccess exchange, he says, is easy to use and shows all available products and price lists. Not long ago, he saw that a new premium gin, Tanqueray No. Ten, was available on BevAccess. So without having to wait for a salesman's in-person pitch, he typed in his order and was one of the first New York establishments to have the hot product on his back bar.


Ms. Branch is a staff reporter in The Wall Street Journal's New York bureau.













TWENTY-TWO

An Unfinished Story


BY RAYMOND HENNESSEY



July 17, 2000



In the late 1990s, executives at Borders Group Inc. faced a dilemma.


The book and music chain had spent years building up a profitable business at its superstores. But as Amazon.com Inc. exploded on the Internet, company officials began to wonder about staking out a corner of cyberspace.









Building a presence online, the company figured, would cost money—lots of it—and probably would erase profits. Their decision: Build more superstores and stay the course of sustainable profit growth, rather than reach for the Internet brass ring.


The company did, indeed, keep its sales and earnings numbers high. But stockholders got jittery and pressured the company to open an online outpost anyway. Then, after the site was unveiled in May 1998, investors began to abandon the stock, figuring the company's plans amounted to too little, too late. After trading above $40 a share in the summer of 1998, Borders stock plummeted and stayed in the teens for much of the past 12 months.


Thus, Borders became one of the first poster-child victims of the so-called New Economy: a company punished because of a perception that it didn't do enough to compete with online retailers.


But don't count Borders out so quickly. For one thing, a closer look at most of the "victims" of the New Economy shows something surprising: While their stock prices have been killed, their sales have held up just fine. What's more, in the end, Borders' go-slow approach may turn out to be the smart move, after all.


In a way, it makes sense that a bookseller like Borders would be so punished by investors. Amazon remains the quintessential online retailer, the company other Web companies want to be when they grow up. It was also among the first solely Web-based retailers, so books became a key proving ground for the Internet.


But some are surprised that investors slammed Borders so hard. After all, for its fiscal year ended Jan. 23, Borders, of Ann Arbor, Mich., booked $3 billion in revenue, with profit, excluding a charge, of $93.7 million, compared with $92.1 million a year earlier. These are not exactly the financials of a company struggling for survival. And Borders has been expanding, building its base of superstores—the large, stand-alone facilities that dot strip malls and shopping centers across the country. Since June 1998, Borders has built 98 new stores, for a world-wide total of 311.


But, earlier this year, because of its lagging stock, Borders waved the white flag, hiring Merrill Lynch & Co. to help explore its options, including taking the company private or finding someone else to acquire it. Borders did talk with at least one potential buyer; it said earlier this month that those talks had ended, though it was still exploring a sale or buyout.


"I don't know how folks like us, with the management experience we have, could have anticipated that the market would have reacted so favorably to companies buying market share at any price in a market that was so clearly unsustainable," says Bruce Quinnell, Borders' vice chairman. "The emotional response [by investors] instead of the rational response is something we could not have anticipated."


Almost from the start, Borders' philosophy has been the same: stick with large outlets. After moving out of the book-inventory-management business 11 years ago, one of the first retail outlets Borders opened was a superstore—described at the time as a store with 15,000 square feet. The measure has since risen to 25,000 square feet.


"The superstore concept is what's very important to our customers," Mr. Quinnell says. "Anything else, including the Internet, should feed off that."


The company stuck to its guns even as Amazon gained popularity in the mid-1990s. Borders executives had their eye on the Internet, but like a lot of officials at traditional companies, they weren't sure how to proceed. They knew they needed to have some kind of Internet strategy, but all of the choices—from creating an online unit to moving the entire company online—looked too expensive.


To build an online business, management reasoned, the company essentially would have to buy market share by underpricing products—and leaving themselves slim profit margins. Plus, executives figured, the company already had a large customer base; rather than paying to build a new base online, they thought it would be more cost-effective to simply continue to concentrate on expanding the store base.


And they weren't concerned about losing customers. At no point, Borders executives say, have they believed that there would be any dramatic shift in customer preference favoring the Internet over traditional shopping. "People like to browse through bookstores, they like to feel the books in their hands," Mr. Quinnell says.


For the most part, Mr. Quinnell says, management didn't feel too much pressure from investors to make a move online. Then, in 1997, came barnesandnoble.com Inc., a Web site from archrival Barnes & Noble Inc. The new competition didn't worry Borders management much—they thought Barnes & Noble was pouring money into an operation that wouldn't make up the spending in sales.


But some stockholders started getting nervous. They began demanding that Borders do something, says Mr. Quinnell.


So, Borders tried to find a way to blend its superstore focus with e-tailing. The company's decision: appease investors by going online, but make an equally big push for its stores. Borders created a site to sell merchandise—little different from other online-commerce operations. But, at the same time, the company devised a plan to bring the Internet into the bookstores.


Each superstore was given a number of Internet kiosks connected with the company's broader inventory, billing and shipping databases. Customers can log in, search for a book and find out where in the store that book is located. If the book isn't in stock, the kiosk then searches the area's fulfillment center.


If the warehouse has it, users have two choices: have the book shipped to their home or to the store.


Right now, customers have to print out an order sheet at the kiosk, then take it to the cashier. Next year, they should be able to order the book directly at the kiosk, Mr. Quinnell says.


But when Borders.com went up, investors weren't impressed. At the time, investors put a heavy emphasis on being first into an online market, and Amazon and Barnes & Noble had beaten Borders to book sales.


When Borders launched its site on May 11, 1998, the stock dropped more than a point. Even more frenzied selling came in August, when Barnes & Noble said it would sell part of its online unit in an initial public offering. It didn't help that Borders fell far short of its first-year online sales goal of $25 million, bringing in a paltry $4.6 million.


Borders management was shocked. They thought they should have been rewarded for taking a measured, slow approach that ensured profitability for the entire company, rather than rushing to buy online market share.


In its defense, consider the company's choices. If it had built an Internet presence earlier, and prompted tech-happy investors to bid up the stock, Borders most likely would have seen its shares deteriorate anyway—along with many other retailers with online operations. Barnes & Noble, for example, has seen its stock price deteriorate over the past year in tandem with Barnes & Noble.com.


Because of the timing, "it was one of those situations where they were damned if they did and damned if they didn't," says Donald Trott, an analyst with Brown Brothers Harriman in New York. "The jury's still out on what the right approach was, but they didn't have a great set of choices in front of them."


Ironically, even as Borders effectively puts a "For Sale" sign on its front lawn, many retailers are more or less adopting the company's Internet strategy—using the Web to bring customers into stores. This clicks-and-mortar approach involves using Web sites mostly to provide availability and other product information, and then steering customers toward stores to do the actual buying.


Why the shift? Simply enough, businesses are finding that customers like to go into stores, analysts say. Some retailers are even borrowing Borders' instore Internet strategy. Ace Hardware Corp. and Service Merchandise Corp. both said recently they would begin installing kiosks to let customers check inventory and place orders for items that aren't in the store.


"Everyone looked at [traditional] retailers like they were selling buggy whips or something," Mr. Trott says. "Now, they're not too sure where we're going, but there's definitely a role for stores."


Mr. Hennessey is a reporter for Dow Jones Newswires in New York.













TWENTY-THREE

From a Call to a Click


BY ALLANNA SULLIVAN



July 17, 2000



Eighteen months ago, Coldwater Creek Inc. had just carved out its niche as a power player among catalogers. Then, during the 1998 holiday season, customers suddenly started to shop heavily on the company's Web site. Displaying only a small smattering of gift items, the site had been mostly dormant until that point.









"It was like a warning system; it let me know my customers were moving beyond catalog shopping," says Dennis Pence, chief executive of the upscale women's apparel catalog, which offers long, flowing dresses and skirts. "We had to react quickly."


And so it did. By the end of 1999, after only six months of operating a revamped site, online sales had brought in $36.1 million, or 11% of Coldwater Creek's total annual revenue of $328.3 million.


And now Mr. Pence is looking for further growth. He has set a year-end goal for Coldwater Creek to be pulling in 25% of its revenue from the Internet sales.


Meanwhile, the company had also begun dabbling in the brick-and-mortar sector, selling its clothing with matching accessories through four stores around the country. Four more of these test-market stores—replete with mood-setting floor-to-ceiling waterfalls—will be constructed this summer, and if they do well, others may follow.


"Data show that at least 80% of all women's apparel is sold through brick-and-mortar operations," says Chief Financial Officer Tom Scott, by way of justifying the cataloger's investment in this type of sales outlet.


Coldwater Creek's expansion would have been difficult to predict a few years ago. But no longer can a catalog be just a catalog. These days, says Mr. Pence, there's a mandate to "multichannel," the industry buzzword for selling through catalogs, over the Internet and, for some, out of stores as well. It's a pressure that has arisen in the past few years as mainstream retailers, desperate to catch up with their new competitors on the Internet, began a forced march into electronic commerce.


Catalogs weren't given high odds of survival. According to then fairly common wisdom, new e-commerce retailers were offering even greater ease of shopping than the catalogs and would snatch away the market for remote shopping.


As it has worked out, however, many Internet-only retailers have had trouble establishing brands and attracting capital, says Evie Black Dykema, senior online-retail analyst for Forrester Research Inc. of Cambridge, Mass. At least half of existing online retail sites will disappear by 2001, says Ms. Dykema. "There's a plethora of sites—many of them mom-and-pop pure-play types—and they're starting to fail. There's at least one a day going down."


As the Internet upstarts fail, mainstream retailers have been left with more room to maneuver. And it's catalog companies in particular, some analysts say, that may be in the best position of all.


That's because catalog shoppers are among the fastest to shift to Internet purchases and because they are already accustomed to buying goods without seeing or touching them. And "catalog companies already have strong distribution and delivery capabilities, which can easily be expanded to include online sales," says Jeanne Kraus, senior retailing analyst for First Security Van Kasper in San Francisco. "They also have consistency in clothing sizes and style. In addition, the catalogs themselves act as an advertising vehicle for shoppers looking for retail Internet sites."


So now, as they vie for online business, Mr. Pence and his staff find themselves mostly going up against their traditional competition—other catalogers as well as brick-and-mortar operations. And analysts give Coldwater Creek good grades for diving into the online market ahead of some of its competitors in women's apparel.


Ann Taylor Stores Corp., considered by Mr. Pence a major competitor as far as style goes, still hasn't set up an Internet shopping site and doesn't expect to until the end of the year at the earliest, a company spokeswoman says. "Ann Taylor is running shockingly behind," Forrester's Ms. Dykema says. A spokeswoman for Ann Taylor says the New York retailer is unwilling to discuss its online efforts at this time.


And Talbots Inc., in Hingham, Mass., which went online last November, is garnering less than 10% of its revenue from Internet sales, analysts say. Margery Myers, a spokeswoman for the toney women's retailer, which has been selling from both stores and catalogs since the 1940s, declined to confirm analysts' speculation. "We won't release any numbers until we have more time under our belt," she says.


Mr. Pence's scramble to get online in a bigger way began immediately after the 1998 holiday season. In redesigning the company's Web site, which would now carry all of the products offered by the company's four catalogs, Mr. Pence mainly wanted to be sure that his customers could get in quickly and not have problems using it once they were there. This meant, among other things, avoiding overly sophisticated graphics that would be slow in loading on the user's end. "Our clientele consists of affluent working women who have no time to fool around with slow computer sites," Mr. Pence says. "They barely have time to put their kids to bed."


The new site took off so dramatically that Coldwater Creek staff had a hard time keeping pace with the orders. To respond, a 14-person unit dedicated to the design and operation of online sales was cobbled together and a giant distribution center was built in Parkersburg, W. Va., to facilitate orders from East Coast customers. The company is now in the process of adding a third Web farm, or cluster of large computers, to keep up with the onslaught. This latest cluster, also in Parkersburg, was built so that if phone lines at the headquarters in Sandpoint, Idaho, go down, calls can automatically be shifted without loss of communication.


Mr. Pence, who got his start as a hi-fi salesman in the U.S. for Japan's Sony Corp., couldn't have envisioned selling goods to people keyed into computers back in 1984. That's when he and his wife started the company by hawking a small array of gift items through fliers and magazine advertisements from the bedroom of their home in Sandpoint.


But now, from his perch at a headquarters building set in a landscape of mountains and waterways that resemble Norwegian fjords, he can look back on the sometimes bumpy expansion of a thriving catalog business into an aggressive online seller.


It's been a drive that has engendered competition both inside and outside the company. Executives within Coldwater Creek sometimes face off over resources that must be divvied up between the catalog and Internet units even as the company races against other online rivals for a commanding stake in the fledgling Internet retail market.


The online effort also was hampered at the outset because no additional people were hired to jump-start the effort, says Karen Reed, director of Coldwater Creek's Internet operations. When the few executives dedicated to getting online operations off the ground gave directives, the orders constantly "fell to the bottom of the pile" as the traditional catalog business took precedence.


Then, in April of last year, the effort gained steam when Mr. Pence created an Internet division under Ms. Reed. But he didn't let go of the reins. "There was some political infighting, and I needed to head it off," he said.


Mr. Scott, Coldwater Creek's chief operating officer, for instance, tells of a tussle between the Web group and the information-services department for the rest of the company. Web executives—misreading a memo from the other group about the purchase of a server—believed the information-services group was usurping its authority and buying a server for the online operations. "It turned out to be a miscommunication, but they got pretty upset with each other," Mr. Scott says. "Dennis [Pence] had to read everyone the riot act to settle things down."


Mr. Pence has also expedited necessary purchases for the project. "I can cut through the red tape when extra money or even a new laptop is suddenly needed overnight by the Web group," Mr. Pence said. "I'm not afraid to throw money at them."


In the meantime, Coldwater Creek has also been carefully tending its core business. It has lured Georgia Shonk-Simmons away from Spiegel Inc. to become the company's chief merchant. She has had a hand in freshening up three of the catalogs and launching a fourth with a lot of clothing designed to be mixed and matched, an innovation for Coldwater Creek. She has also empowered in-house designers to travel the world to track trends that can be adapted to the catalog's target audience of working women between 35 and 55 years of age with an earning power of $60,000 to $70,000 annually. They search out exotic fabrics and manufacturing facilities—a designer at Coldwater Creek may buy material for a blouse in Italy, have it manufactured in Canada and then match it with a skirt made in Arizona.


Although Coldwater Creek competes with Land's End Inc. only in the women's clothing sector, Mr. Pence keeps his eye on the well-known cataloger and considers its technology to be trend-setting. And that's the role that Land's End, the world's largest online apparel retailer, wants to keep. "We really want to be a leader," says William Bass, senior vice president of that catalog's e-commerce site.


Land's End, based in Dodgeville, Wis., went online in 1995. It sold $160 of gear in its first month. Now the Web site brings in over $10 million monthly. Mr. Bass won't say how much of the company's total budget is spent on Web development, but it's clear it isn't stingy about laying out money on technology. There's a live chat line that allows shoppers to ask questions about merchandise, and its "shopping with a friend" service allows Land's End online customers to hook themselves up with a friend and a Land's End sales representative at the same time.


But the technology that has caused a big stir in the online industry is Land's End's virtual model. With a few clicks on the keyboard, the shopper is supposed to be able to reproduce herself onscreen, choosing from among a number of face shapes and hair colors. When first launched two years ago, the model offered only general body measurements, such as narrow, medium or wide hips. Now measurements can come as close as one-eighth of an inch. Theoretically, the possibility of seeing how clothes would look on a model with a shopper's body type is alluring as a sales tool. But the reality, even Land's End admits, is that the model seems to look a little chunky regardless of how it's finessed and only a few of its clothing items can be tried on.


Mr. Bass says the virtual-model segment of the Web site is still under development, and "in no way, shape or form is it yet what it will be." But, he points out, "regardless of its flaws, over one million people have so far built models of themselves." And he adds, "If you wait too long to get into something, you may never get there."


Although Mr. Pence is impressed by Land's End, he doesn't aspire to be a trendsetter for technology himself. His strategy, rather, is to watch, and adapt whatever he deems to be successful. So far, he has established a chat line and created a personal-shopper service.


But as for what he calls "that virtual-model shtick," Mr. Pence is biding his time. "Have you seen it?" he asks. "It's ugly. And using it eats up too much time. When it looks better and moves faster, sure, we'll adapt it."


Ms. Sullivan is a senior special writer in The Wall Street Journal's New York bureau.













TWENTY-FOUR

Home Advantage


BY JON G. AUERBACH



July 17, 2000



Just a few years back, the smart money was betting the Internet would topple the traditional real-estate agent. The Web, so the argument went, would put buyers directly in touch with sellers, cutting out the middlemen and vaporizing their fat commissions.









But while buying and selling goods on the Internet is now commonplace, real-estate agents are alive and well—and still collecting their fees. Web threats still loom, and competition from Internet sites has helped push commissions down in some areas of the country. But no major, national auction site for homes has emerged online—nor does one seem to be on the horizon.


As it turns out, homes made of bricks aren't so easy to sell with clicks.


In fact, confronting the challenge of the Internet, real-estate agents have learned to use it to their own advantage. Many have set up Web pages, and it is now common for them to e-mail listings to prospective clients. Real-estate agents have also beefed up their services to keep clients coming, offering everything from home-decoration tips to architectural aid.


The brokers have also been aided by the fact that they can control access to the Multiple Listing Service, a nationwide directory of home offerings mainly controlled by local real-estate associations. Set up after World War II to help control commission splitting between agents, the MLS keeps detailed information about homes for sale. Agents typically post homes they are selling on the MLS, broadening the scope of potential buyers.


But perhaps the biggest advantage traditional brokers have arises from the limitation of the virtual world: You can't touch and feel it. Most buyers are unwilling to plunk down hundreds of thousands of dollars for a split-level just on the strength of a picture and details provided over the Internet. They typically demand an on-site inspection.


The percentage of U.S. home buyers who used the Web to search for homes more than doubled last year to 37%, according to the National Association of Realtors. But the survey showed that only 4% of these buyers found the home they eventually bought on the Internet. And even in these cases, commissions were often paid, because it was an agency listing, rather than one posted directly by the seller, that led to the sale.


"There's too much information on the Web," says Fred Flick, of the Realtors' group. "People need to have that information filtered."


The association estimates that the median gross annual income of national real-estate professionals rose about 30% from 1995 to 1998, to $43,500.


That is not to say that the Web hasn't shaken up the real-estate industry. The Internet has made it easier for consumers to shop around for agents and homes. In some areas, real-estate agents have been forced to improve their game. "Realtors have to provide a whole slew of services to justify their positions," says Ari Vidali, a co-founder of Iproperty.com, an Indianapolis firm that provides software and Web-access to real-estate agents.


Realtor.com, probably the best-known real-estate site, offers users personal planners for keeping track of the home-buying process, a guide to locating lenders and links to home-repair providers. The Thousand Oaks, Calif. site, partly owned by the National Association of Realtors, also hosts online forums on topics such as radon and lead paint and "Moving Mayhem," such as what to do when the couch won't fit through the door.


UrbanRealtors.com, based in Houston, has advanced a hybrid model—part clicks, and part bricks. The seed for the business was planted three years ago when Vinod Ramani was looking for a house in Houston. Mr. Ramani says he contacted brokers, who gave him little more than photocopied information sheets about homes. "I felt that this was not the type of service that justified taking 3% to 6% commissions," he says.


Mr. Ramani, who had previously worked in the hospitality business providing services to hotels, decided to do something about it. He got his real-estate license and started UrbanRealtors, which opened for business on the Web in May 2000.


The company's philosophy is that buyers and sellers should have free access to information. Once users register on the company's Web site, they can freely browse Multiple Listing Service information. Many Realtors guard MLS information, dispensing it selectively, on the Web or elsewhere. But Mr. Ramani decided to give users almost unlimited access to the listings, figuring it will draw people to his site and generally improve the home-buying process. His comprehensive Web listings carry addresses and describe whether high-rise buildings, for instance, include on-site management and other property specifics.


But UrbanRealtors is also relying on a heavy real-world presence. The company is currently building a 15,000-square-foot facility in Houston that will offer a variety of real-estate and homeowner services. The front of the office will house computers where prospective buyers and sellers can research homes, free of hovering real-estate agents. On top of that, UrbanRealtors' office will include mini-showrooms for furniture sales, home-improvement and architectural design work. Ironically, the companies that provide these services will include dot-com businesses looking for a real-world presence.


The office will also include accountants, title services and a coffee bar. The company's 16 real-estate agents will be in the back of the building, available for clients but out of the way. "You never have to talk to them unless you want to," says Mr. Ramani.


UrbanRealtors is also trying to shake up the traditional commission model. The company charges sellers 5% commissions, less than the typical 6% cut. Buyers who find property through UrbanRealtors receive 1% cash back, which can be pocketed or applied to home improvement, furniture and other offerings through the company. UrbanRealtors covers only Houston for now, but plans to add 25 cities in the next two to three years.


DeWolfe Cos., a real-estate firm in Lexington, Mass., began investing in the Internet about three years ago. "We realized that the business was changing," says Paul J. Harrington, the company's president.


DeWolfe, which expects to handle 20,000 listings this year, has set up video technology to let prospective buyers browse home interiors and exteriors. Combined with agents' frequent use of e-mail, DeWolfe has cut down the number of physical showings—saving its agents and buyers time.


DeWolfe's Web site now gets about four million hits a month, drawing about 125,000 user sessions. "People will never buy homes based on simply an electronic viewing of the property," Mr. Harrington says, but he adds that the Internet can help home shoppers narrow their search. In addition, he believes agents are surviving because they help with negotiations, lend expertise about communities and schools, and help navigate the complex buying and selling process.


Mr. Vidali, of Iproperty, believes real-estate agents have survived the Internet because of the cost and emotions involved in buying a home. "The home is not a commodity," he says. "It's a very high-touch purchase, and the real-estate professional negotiates and guides the buyer."


But Mr. Vidali believes agents need to involve themselves more in not just the home-buying process, but also the home-owning process. Iproperty's Web site and software allow agents to build custom Web sites for buyers and sellers. The sites can include e-commerce software for ordering insurance and appraisal service, and for providing community information on movies, restaurants and trash-pickup days.


In the old days, says Mr. Vidali, real-estate agents would send a fruit basket after a home was sold to stay in touch with the buyer. With the Web, he adds, "they need to reinvent themselves into home-ownership service centers."


Mr. Auerbach is The Wall Street Journal's deputy Boston bureau chief.













TWENTY-FIVE

Roundtable: A Step Back


BY GARY PUTKA



July 17, 2000



At midsummer 2000, the bloom is off the Internet rose.


A lengthening list of e-tailers—Beauty Scene, RedRocket, Toysmart, Value America, Boo.com, to name a few—have gone out of business, sold out under duress or face financial crises. Many Internet stocks are down 50% or more from their highs, and the initial public offering market for an online company is no longer a rocket ride.









As traditional companies are storming onto the Web with billions of dollars in new investment, it might seem like the bricks have the clicks on the run in the battle for online commerce.


But hold on.


It is America Online Inc., not Time Warner Inc., that will emerge top dog in that combination of old-and new-media titans. A clutch of Web pioneers—including Yahoo! Inc., Amazon.com Inc., and eBay Inc.—have developed new business models still unmatched by competitors, and continue to command investors' respect. Clearly there are some barriers to entry to Web competition, after all. Being first with a fresh idea still wins.


To help sort out the real issues in the competition between the Internet upstarts and their more-established companies, The Wall Street Journal turned to a panel of Web players and watchers who have analyzed the scene from distinct perspectives. They talked with Gary Putka, The Wall Street Journal's Boston bureau chief and contributing editor of this report. The participants:


Thomas Eisenmann teaches "Managing Market-space Businesses"—an Internet course—at Harvard Business School. To dissect the Web into understandable bits, he has helped delineate six types of Internet business models, from horizontal portals to online market makers.


Joseph Galli spent 19 years at Black & Decker Corp., where he was president of the Worldwide Power Tools unit, revived under his tenure through product development and new marketing approaches. Now he drills down into the Web at Amazon.com, which he joined as president and chief operating officer last year.


Mary Modahl, a veteran Web consultant and analyst, is the author of "Now or Never," a book that argues that companies with Internet ambitions must do a better job of understanding the technological attitudes of their customers. She was recently made vice president of research at Forrester Research Inc. in Cambridge, Mass.


Thomas Stemberg, chairman and chief executive officer of Staples Inc., pioneered the office-supplies superstore concept. He has overseen a $150 million overhaul of the Staples Web sites to differentiate them in an increasingly crowded field.


Here are excerpts of their discussion.


A New Era

The Wall Street Journal: Joe, I would like to start with you and ask whether a Web-centric retailer could ever get started again and become successful.



Mr. Galli: I think the climate that we find ourselves in today is much more difficult for Web-centric retailers than in the past. I don't think it is impossible to start up today. I think a company would have to have a clearly defined niche, some kind of point of differentiation which would enable them to get funding and attract customers. I think the challenge today is that attracting customers online is not simple, and there is a real flight to quality in the mind of customers, and quite honestly in the mind of investors. So it is a very different time. No question about it.



WSJ: Tom, what is your view?



Mr. Stemberg: I still believe that there are lots of market segments and lots of big companies that don't necessarily get the Internet, announcements not-withstanding. And if you don't build an Internet business that has the very same capabilities and flexibility and innovation that a company like Amazon has, I think you are potentially vulnerable to a pure-play start-up. We are doing our darnedest at Staples not to be vulnerable and to be the leader in our space. Our benchmark is Amazon. We try to benchmark the best pure play as to see how well you can do.



WSJ: Mary?



Ms. Modahl: I think that the euphoria in the market was probably too much for the reality and the current gloom is probably also an over-adjustment of the pendulum. Step back from the Internet entirely, and just look at business start-ups. You don't expect 80% to succeed. You expect 80% or 90% to fail. And so the fact that that turns out to be true on the Internet shouldn't actually be surprising anybody. We have only seen a few failures. Believe me, we will see more than half the dot-coms fail. But that doesn't mean that the Internet is not a tremendous opportunity. And anytime you see enormous market growth—and we do—in many consumer as well as business-to-business sectors, there is going to be opportunity for innovators, particularly those that carefully differentiate themselves. It is the companies that are just like the next guy that are really going to suffer. So I think differentiation is really the key.



Mr. Eisenmann: I think we are at least three or four years into this. And any sizable category of retailing has seen its share, and probably more than its share, of dot-coms. So I don't think there are too many corners of the economy where somebody hasn't tried this. As Joe and Mary suggest, there will be folks who find a niche and differentiate. Where you have interesting opportunities for Web-centric companies to continue to retail is this hybrid model. And I am thinking of companies like Priceline, where you name your own price for groceries, but you go into the grocery store to pick up the groceries. I am thinking of Send.com, where it is a bunch of retailers of high-end gifts, products and services. First wines, and then on to spas and so on and so forth.



WSJ: What's different about their model?



Mr. Eisenmann: Their delivery network is an FTD-like network of local retailers. People buy from Send.com on the site. But then they notify one of their local merchants who arranges for a courier to bring the gift of wine. So there are still interesting hybrids, opportunities for Web-centric companies to share brick-and-mortar infrastructure. But as for a classic build-your-own-warehouse online company, we have done it in furniture, we have done it in pets. It is a tough, tough business.



Ms. Modahl: When you think about differentiation in this space, there are two steps. One is: Why can we do this better on the Internet than not on the Internet? So there is the reason to be an Internet or Web-centric company in the first place. Just being on the Internet isn't a differentiation. But then beyond that, you need something, you need to be able to tell yourself why you can do it and somebody else can't do it very easily. And that is the place where most of the dot-coms are failing. Because, yes, it is cool to do this on the Internet. And we will get some benefit there. But why couldn't everybody do it just the way I do it? So erecting those barriers is extremely important. And they have to do it with great speed.


Web-Site Favorites

WSJ: Maybe I can ask you to talk about your favorite Web sites, asking you to exclude your own companies for a moment.



Mr. Galli: Well, there are a lot of Web sites that we admire. I think of a company like Charles Schwab that has reinvented itself and developed a fabulous Internet model. It used to be a land-based model. And I think it is the kind of company that is going through a very difficult transformational change that has led it to a very successful end point.



WSJ: What did they do right?



Mr. Galli: I think they made a decision to cannibalize their core business. And they did it with almost reckless abandon. They just went out and said, the Internet is the future. We are going to develop it. And they have put tremendous resources and senior-level management focus on it. So it wasn't viewed as a sideline. They didn't do it to appease Wall Street. It really was something that they did, they decided to change their entire company. It was a testament to watch that kind of transformational change in an established company like Schwab.



WSJ: Mary, do you have any favorites?



Ms. Modahl: When I go shopping online, I do a tremendous amount of shopping at Amazon.



Mr. Galli: Thank you!



Ms. Modahl: Because I buy a lot of books and CDs. I haven't been into the variety categories as much. But certainly my media spending has made an almost wholesale shift, I would say, to Amazon. Just because of convenience. And the only thing I don't like are the personalization features that have personalized me to my daughters' book purchases; since I buy so many books for my daughters, all my suggestions have to do with ponies. When I go online looking for things that are more germane for an adult woman, I find that my personal recommendation list is filled with pony books. But that is a small thing.



WSJ: You have to give us something more obscure than Amazon.



Ms. Modahl: Let me complete this thought. Speaking as an author now of a book, there's quite a remarkable difference between Amazon and every other player in terms of reporting capabilities. So watching the sales of my own book, I can watch them update hourly on Amazon. I have accurate-to-the-book reporting weekly from Amazon. It was very effective. If I found an error in the listing, I corrected it via e-mail in 24 hours. The service level was much higher than Barnes & Noble or any of the other bazillion outlets.


Off of Amazon, Travelocity works for me as a shopper. I buy a lot of travel tickets online. I find it incredibly easy to use. When it gets beyond those two, I behave like most consumers. I go looking for the thing I am looking for. And where I look is for my favorite search site. So I go to Alta Vista and I go to Yahoo, put in the name of the product that I am looking for. For example, I was looking for a space pen, one of those nifty things that write upside down. I love mine. Someone gave me one as a gift. I was buying one for my husband. What do I do? I put in "space pen" in the search site, and I find a shop. Never heard of them before. Fabulous collection of space pens. I buy it there. I am interested in Star Wars Pez candy for my son. There are 22 kids coming over for the birthday party. I don't know where to buy Star Wars Pez candy, but I know that if I go to my search site, and I put in "Pez" and "Star Wars characters," I will come up with a candy store.


In fact, I came up with a candy wholesaler. I have never personally bought a store display before, but it was great at the birthday party! And the Pez was half the price.



Mr. Stemberg: The three I would cite would come from different categories. First, my personal life—I have four boys, two of whom are young. Finding the nifty new idea for a gift is always one of my challenges. I think eToys, although it has been murdered in the financial press of late, is a nifty enough Web site and business. Over time, despite some very big companies coming at them, I think they will find a niche in the marketplace.


On an information basis, with some of today's American travel sites, it is very hard to get accurate information about everything that is going on in Europe. I find that DeutscheBahn.de is the single niftiest travel Web site out there. Oftentimes I am going between three and four different stores [in Germany]. It is way more efficient to travel by train than by rental car with the Autobahn traffic jams. And I can literally lay out in half an hour an itinerary with four cities. Terrific Web site.


The niftiest site I have seen in our space is something called NowDocs.com, which essentially is going to build the capability—and we will probably be a partner with them—to print a document and get it delivered to any major city in North America within two hours. That's their plan. And they are going to get there pretty quickly. That is a neat thing. And we think we could provide those kinds of distinctive business services to our customers both through Staples.com and Quill.com as well as through touch points in our stores. We think this is going to offer us tremendous competitive advantage.


Winners and Losers

WSJ: You are all still pretty sanguine about the Web. It is almost as if none of the past months have happened. Maybe I can ask you to focus a little on that. How has the competitive environment been changed by the wiping out of so much capital in the Internet stock market and the decline of some of these IPOs? Whom does it favor, if it favors anyone? Whom does it hurt especially?



Mr. Galli: What has happened is going to focus companies on what matters, which is building a terrific profitable enduring business over the long term. Over the past several years the short-term frenzy surrounding dot-com start-ups has diffused some of the management attention, and now I think we will get back to building a great business. Quite honestly, I think that is a very healthy development. I think the obsession with customers, the obsession with building a business that continues to grow and prosper and achieves profitability, I think those are all really good things.



WSJ: Are we going to see more mergers and acquisitions? More consolidations here?



Mr. Galli: Certainly when you have an environment where companies are valued at a fraction of their former valuation, those opportunities exist. But I don't think mergers are always a good thing. In a period of consolidation, there are different ways of consolidating. There is a finite amount of market share available online. And there are different ways that companies can achieve that market share. So one path of success might be merger activity. But it is not necessarily a given that that is a great path.



WSJ: So you don't think we are going to see more Terra/Lycos alliances, more Old Economy/New Economy alliances?



Mr. Galli: Well, to be clear, I am sure there will be dozens and dozens and hundreds of alliances and/or acquisitions that evolve here over the coming months. But there is an extraordinary opportunity to develop e-commerce business. E-commerce is still very much in its infancy. I think all this gyration in the financial markets tends to mask what the reality is here: We are in the nascent phase of e-commerce. E-commerce is just beginning. Many people haven't bought their first item online yet. Many countries have just a tiny percentage of their population online. And the focus of developing a great e-commerce platform is a fabulous opportunity.



Mr. Stemberg: It boggles my mind. I talk to investors. Now, as you know we just recently made a very strong and aggressive and costly move in e-commerce. We have investors come up to us and ask, don't you understand? This whole game is over. The Internet is dead. This whole thing is just coming to an end. I said, wait a minute, eight weeks ago you were 100% sure that it was 180 degrees in the opposite direction. Today you are equally sure that it is in this direction. And I suspect just as Mary said a few minutes ago, that the truth is going to lie somewhere in between.


The Internet is going to change the way business is done. Look at retailing overall. And retailing is only a small part of the Internet. Catalogs got to maybe 15%, 13%, something like that, of all retail sales. It is reasonable to assume that the Internet will at least get that much, because it's a lot better, a lot more vivid, medium than catalog ever was. And as soon as you get broadband, it is going to be a several-orders-of-magnitude better experience. So say it gets to 20%. What are we at today—1%?



WSJ: What will it be in 2000?



Ms. Modahl: Retailing online will be $40 billion.



WSJ: And the total retailing market is?



Ms. Modahl: $2.5 trillion.



Mr. Stemberg: So it is about 1.5% today. My guess would be that it is going to get to somewhere close to the very high teens or 20s. So we are very early in this. Are some of the stocks that are out there worth some of the valuations that they are receiving? Obviously not. And I think it would be healthy if everybody involved, particularly for companies like ourselves who have a status of incumbency, to see a more rational financial market for these things.



WSJ: But what does it do to the ability to bring capital into this market?



Mr. Stemberg: It clearly favors the people like Amazon who have the money or like Staples who have very profitable, successful businesses—several-hundred-million-dollar-a-year cash flows that can finance their growth even if they can't do IPOs.



Mr. Eisenmann: No question there are tens of billions of dollars raised that are waiting to get back to work. Venture capitalists have gone to the sidelines in the last few weeks. I think they would all agree that a cold splash of reality here is good for their business. And probably good for the Internet economy. But those people have to put that money to work. They would love to put it all to work in infrastructure and enabling technologies and so forth. But there are going to be interesting opportunities in [consumer-oriented Web businesses], whether it be private equity or public equity. If you look, [stock prices of] the Internet service providers are down, as a group, 80%—the publicly traded companies. If you do a net present value of the cash flows, they are trading around [a level] which basically says: no growth in the business.


No growth? Sure, there is a long-term threat from broadband. But they can participate in that, some of them. And sure, the free-ISP model is a threat. But many of these companies provide outstanding customer service, and that will be valued.


The online brokers, down 70% as a group. The online grocers—Webvan, Peapod, Streamline.com—down 80% as a group. Ask about companies where you love the business model? A local company, Streamline, has, in terms of a differentiated offer for consumers, fabulous discipline in focusing on just one type of customer, the busy suburban families. Ignored the double-income-no-kids, the sort of people in the Back Bay here in Boston. Ignored lower-income families, in the interest of their business model.



Mr. Stemberg: And the CEO is a Staples founder. Let's get that in!



Mr. Eisenmann: It is a well-oiled model. They have discipline about getting the model right before they got big fast. But the market has taken them down with the whole category. Their market cap is $50 million right now. I know the company is worth more than $50 million. So I think this will settle out. Some of the smart money out there will view it as a buying opportunity. There will be a lot of consolidation. But I think there has been an overreaction in a lot of categories.


Pre-IPO Stock: Losing Its Luster

WSJ: Mary, how has the Internet stock market collapse changed the competitive environment?



Ms. Modahl: I think there are a couple of areas that are being affected. The first is the labor markets. There has been an environment of exodus from traditional companies to dot-coms. Headhunters no longer even talk about "the business" or "the business model" or "the dreams of the company." Or anything. All they talk about is that [the job candidate could get] pre-IPO stock. That is very significantly attenuated. Pre-IPO stock is like mud now. You leave your good job, we will give you some potentially worthless stuff! And that has really changed the environment. You are starting to see dot-com rebound, particularly among traditional managers who may, for all the right reasons, do better in a more stable, larger-company environment. I mean, not everybody is cut from entrepreneurial cloth.



WSJ: You are seeing people going from dot-coms back to . . .



Ms. Modahl: Absolutely. And with what great experience. They return to the traditional companies.


You will certainly see an advertising-market impact. And I would watch for impact in the media space. There has been just a windfall for television and print. There has been a wealth transfer in our society from venture capitalists to media-company owners. And that, I think, is going to attenuate. You saw a company like Cozone spend $17 million in the fourth quarter of 1999 alone. And shutter not three months later.



WSJ: And Alta Vista spend $120 million on its relaunch in mostly traditional media.



Ms. Modahl: Enormous expenditures. So I think you are going to see an advertising impact.



WSJ: A decline in this spending in some of the traditional media?



Ms. Modahl: I believe so. I think you are not going to see, however, an abatement of the competition on the Internet for consumers' attention. If anything, I think now the real competition begins. Because a lot of the companies that have been out there as dot-coms have not really brought to bear the kinds of things that traditional companies will bring to bear on a consumer market. Such as customer service, actual product delivery, an established brand that must be protected. And therefore you cannot deliver poorly against that brand. Otherwise you destroy existing value. So I think you are going to see actual increases in real competition for providing consumer value.


Bricks vs. Clicks

WSJ: I would like to ask you all if the bricks are beginning to win this battle. Toys "R" Us surpassed eToys in eyeballs in the most recent month counted. Car makers, plastic makers, chemical makers, have all made very strong responses to the business-to-business exchanges that are out there. We are beginning to see traditional media, to mention the sector Mary just talked about, with stocks performing very well and very strong profits, whereas some of the new media are not. Joe, are the bricks winning?



Mr. Galli: I believe that this market opportunity in e-commerce is so vast that there will be a lot of winners. We believe there is a model for Amazon.com. I guess we'll be a broad-based retailer that will focus strictly online world-wide. But we also believe that there will be many well-managed brick-and-mortar retailers that will develop effective e-commerce strategies and will also succeed online. So this is not a question so much of winner and loser. There will be a lot of winners, and there will also be a lot of shakeout.


But just because somebody is brick and mortar doesn't mean they will be a loser or a winner. Not every pure-play e-commerce company will be a winner or loser. I think that e-commerce is so competitive, the customer wins with e-commerce beautifully because e-commerce makes things like pricing and selection easy to uncover. And product information is easy to compare. I really think what is going to happen is everybody will raise their game.



WSJ: So does the stock market have it wrong in devaluing the Web-centric companies vs. the companies that are not Web-centric?



Mr. Galli: I think the stock market is very volatile. In an emerging industry segment like e-commerce, I think it is natural to see a stock market react with volatile swings. So it would be hard to take a point in time to say that the market is right or wrong.


Long term, I think what we are in the middle of is a flight to quality. I would never try to project long-term prospects based on short-term stock-market swings.



Mr. Eisenmann: I would go further and say it is dangerous to generalize about clicks and bricks. If you look at a category like Tom's, office supply, the big three—Staples, Office Max, Office Depot—totally dominate the Internet space. And I think there are a lot of good business reasons for that. If you look at online brokerage, Schwab and Fidelity are very dominant. E*Trade and Ameritrade have strong businesses, but by any metric of accounts, or market share of trades, the incumbents dominate. But then you look at other categories, like Joe's, and at least on the book-selling side of Amazon, 80% market share. If you look at online grocery, it is a category that is out of favor, but it is Webvan and Streamline and Peapod. The incumbents are nowhere to be found.


So we have some businesses where the incumbents are clearly in the lead. Some businesses where the incumbents have barely gotten started. And then I would take you through a whole series of categories. If you look at the computer-information space, CNET and ZD Net—basically tied. One has an offline history and one doesn't. There's iVillage and Women.com. Basically tied. Again a pure play vs. a company with a strong link to incumbents. Pet category: You see players both with incumbent links and a pure play like Pets.com linked with Amazon. So I think it would be imprudent to generalize about who can win, whether it could be in the incumbents or the pure plays.



WSJ: If bricks vs. clicks is the wrong question, what's the right question?



Mr. Eisenmann: How you manage to move online. Do you get big fast? Staples really has been very aggressive, for example. Do you, if you get big fast, go after existing customers where you have information and relationship, or do you go after new customers? Do you build or buy? An important question. If you build, are you—and I am borrowing language from Lincoln Millstein, who is the former CEO of Boston.com—a hawk or a dove? A hawk, who sets up the Internet business very separate from the incumbent. Separate location, staffed with outsiders. Not a lot of sharing of resources and functions. Vs. a dove, who keeps it inside. Staples has been—I don't know if Tom will like the language—dovish. They have kept it inside. It is at headquarters.



Ms. Modahl: Tom's cooing right now.



Mr. Eisenmann: The top management team at Staples.com has a lot of Staples insiders. And it evens out as you get below that, because they have brought in expertise from the outside. But that is a very important decision for an incumbent to make. There are a lot of folks out there who think that with a disruptive technology you just have to separate it. You have to push it out. But you forfeit tremendous advantages when you do that. Another key decision for the incumbent is, do you spin it off? Do you do a tracking stock or some other way to raise capital and have a currency to make acquisitions? Have a currency with which to motivate employees? So I think the real issue is not who is going to win, but how do you do it. And a whole bunch of very hard business decisions on the way.



Mr. Stemberg: What I would say about this general question is that everybody has agreed with some fundamental tenets. No. 1 is that in many of these big categories, there will be multiple winners. Two, I find that quality is perhaps an amorphous word. Pick any word you like, but the best companies, the best value propositions for the customer, will ultimately win. In our particular space, it happens to be very important that you deliver the very next day. And deliver pretty completely and have all the little things, the goomits to gamma that a customer wants. The fact that we deliver 100,000 orders a day already around the country, about half of them in our own trucks. . . .



WSJ: Goomits to gamma?



Mr. Stemberg: The space pens, to use Mary's example. I am not sure we do have that one. We deliver those things the very next day. That creates a kind of barrier to entry for a lot of people. Because in delivering reliably the next day, if you don't have your own inventory, you are relying on wholesalers. Good luck.



WSJ: Joe, was that you stirring?



Mr. Galli: No, but I would be happy to answer the question.



WSJ: Go ahead, take it.



Mr. Galli: The Internet experience that we all go through today is of course at its worst possible levels, and will only improve every day between now and 10 years from now. And you are going to see dramatic breakthroughs in technology like broadband. There will be a wireless revolution, in our opinion, that will change the way people access the Net and engage in e-commerce.


Then there will be the whole globalization of the Net. Right now, our fastest-growing business is in Europe. In fact, if you look at Amazon.com, over 20% of the company's sales go outside the U.S. We ship to over 150 countries. Our European theater of operations is going through fantastic growth today. My view would be there is just so much opportunity for well-managed companies to develop an e-commerce model and build the right technology and the right customer obsession, and to participate in this revolution.


I do think that e-commerce is a lot more challenging than it may appear on the surface. Initially there were a lot of companies born based on the premise that an e-commerce company is a virtual company, and all you have to do is put up a Web site and buy a few servers and engage a couple of wholesalers, and suddenly you have a fast-growing model. The fact is e-commerce is a lot of work. There is a lot of back-side operations, customer-service fulfillment, distribution, procurement, vendor management. All those areas require tremendous effort to be changed into e-commerce-oriented support functions. That is tough, and something we work very hard on at Amazon.com. But I think people make a mistake. They say: Look at the Internet experience today; that is what it is all about. Because I can tell you in two or three years, the experience will be so much better, and so much more pervasive around the world to consumers and businesses.


Insiders vs. Outsiders

WSJ: Let's talk a little bit about hawks and doves. If I understand the construct correctly, the hawk is the one who reaches out and becomes more Internet-like and buys someone from the Internet sphere, or attracts people from the Internet sphere. And the dove keeps it inside.



Mr. Eisenmann: I would reserve "hawk" for a company, an incumbent, that builds an Internet company, but builds it from a distance. A separate location. Doesn't coordinate inventory with the brick-and-mortar stores. No brand sharing. No coordination on pricing. Staffed completely with a separate set of managers. And so as separate as you could possibly make it.



Mr. Stemberg: Let me answer the question with a data point that may surprise you. Though I would agree with the characterization of Staples as a dove, we still do what Joe suggests, which is the right thing to do, and what Schwab did, which is to aggressively cannibalize our own customer base. We do think it is important that if one of our customers is going to go online, we would just as soon it be with Staples vs. someone else. And when you look at the data, actually it's shocking. If a customer just shops retail in Staples, they spend on average—there are a couple of million that we actually measure, so these are our better customers—about $500 or $600 a year.



WSJ: This is the online customer?



Mr. Stemberg: This is the retail [store] customer. If they begin to shop retail and catalog, they spend more than double that. So approximately $1,500. If we are lucky enough to make them what we call the multichannel customer—we get them to shop with us retail, catalog and dot-com—it doubles again to over $3,000. Which really says a couple of things. One is you need to be sure that you become the online source for your own customers and migrate customers as quickly as you can. And two, at least in our space—which is very different than other spaces—having clicks and bricks sure helps.



Ms. Modahl: I am going to weigh in on something that Joe was talking about before, which is the size of the e-commerce opportunity. I think it is very important to understand the scope of it. If you look at it now, you are looking at about $450 billion.



WSJ: In revenue?



Ms. Modahl: Yes, revenue. And if you look at it five years out, you are looking at something on the order of we think $2.7 trillion. So more than a fivefold expansion. I think it is very hard for people to understand the scope—even when I say to people $40 billion to consumers this year, they go you're kidding. And that is a conservative estimate. Even with the very conservative forecast, it is just a huge opportunity.


What you are saying about multichannel behavior is also so important. Because consumers hear all these advertisements for various dot-coms. They watch the Super Bowl, they see these ads. When they go online, what do they do? The primary absolute No. 1 behavior after e-mail is to go to a search engine and put in the name of the product, brand name or retailer that you are familiar with, that you already know, to see if you can find it online. And so I would submit that 90 cents of every advertising dollar spent by a dot-com creates in the consumer's mind the idea, gee, I should try this Internet thing. And then the next step for them is to go to somebody they already know. So probably 90 cents of every dollar spent by a dot-com drives the consumer to a traditional company.



WSJ: Among investors, there has been a dynamic where the profit and loss statement is sort of regarded as wampum for the New Economy companies, and regarded as real money for the Old Economy companies. In other words, it doesn't matter if you lose money with the New Economy companies, but it does for the Old Economy companies. Which is I think one of the issues in growing your own. How do you deal with investors' toleration of the losses that are inevitable in this new market space, Tom?



Mr. Stemberg: Obviously not terribly well, because our stock has suffered.



WSJ: Because of your Internet move?



Mr. Stemberg: I think Alan Greenspan has something to do with it. And the fact that our competitors had trouble had something to do with it. Is it a factor? Certainly it is a factor. I think that at the end of the day you have to do the right thing for the long term. And let's say you do accept that there is a penalty for these big Internet losses. The fact of the matter is that if our Internet strategy works—and I believe that it will—that very small revenue base that is exploding will leap from a $150 million loss to a very significant profit. Much as when we entered California and lost millions of dollars for a couple of years, our stock got punished and then rose several-fold to new heights. And when we went to Canada we experienced the same thing.


In some ways it is déjà vu all over again. It is just a more visible set of dollars. It is a bigger set of dollars because it is a new economy and it is something different. But it is the same kind of thing. And again you end up with a steeper earnings curve and more aggressive growth coming out of it, providing you succeed. Again, I think we are relatively sanguine that we will succeed.


Fundamental Transformation

WSJ: How fundamentally transforming has the Web been? A professor at the Harvard Business School wrote an article late last year saying that the Web had killed inflation because of the new empowerment of buyers. Others have posited that it has fundamentally changed marketing and branding forever. I wonder if you could address that and also say where reality didn't meet the predictions.



Mr. Galli: I think it is way, way early. We are in the first inning in terms of evaluating predictions. I think the fact is the transformational impact of the Internet is going to affect many manufacturers and leading businesses here over the next five years. For example, if you are a manufacturer and you prepare your products for sale in a retail environment, that means you tend to spend a lot of money on things like full-color packaging, or shoplifting insurance, or detail sales reps that go into the stores. And those are all things that are superfluous in an Internet model. And manufacturers are starting to come to grips with that and realizing how much money they can save by preparing products for resale from an Internet model.


If you make a product that is small, if you are the manufacturer, you tend to pack it in fold-over blister or something that will deter shoplifting. And in an Internet model you don't have shoplifters. So that product can be packed—instead of in an expensive fold-over blister package, which may cost $1 or more for a $10 item—now that product can be packed in a cardboard box with the UPC code that costs eight cents, instead of a dollar.



WSJ: Is anyone doing that?



Mr. Galli: We don't talk specifically about our vendor relationships, but in general there is a broad-based movement among suppliers that we work with to modify their product for sale on the Internet. The implication here for the consumer is fabulous. The consumer ends up today paying for marketing costs that don't provide any product benefit. The classic example is the Barbie doll. You think of the Barbie doll packed in a cellophane box that has a beautiful full-color package that is designed to catch your eye in retail. And that cellophane wrapper is expensive and also is not conducive to shipping through the mail, through the carrier. So that product is packed a different way. It saves the consumer money, it becomes much more efficient. So those kinds of breakthroughs, those are the long-term pervasive benefits of the Internet that we haven't even begun to see.



Ms. Modahl: The short-term impact is a huge amount of garbage. I don't know about you, but if you buy a lot of stuff on the Internet, you end up with all those boxes and packing.



Mr. Galli: I can't comment about other Internet companies. I can only tell you that when the model works and as time unfolds, you will see that there is an inherently more efficient supply-chain strategy that comes around in an Internet model. And I don't think that we have seen a tiny percentage of that effect on the economy as of yet. But as time goes on, there is going to be a huge effect.


I think a more visible thing is pricing. It is so easy to compare pricing online. Which means that you have to have competitive pricing or you have a very difficult time on the Internet. Another thing is selection. You can have a much broader selection of products available to consumers. Many consumers really like the idea of being able to choose among many different brands or products, as opposed to having a store pre-select what brand they are going to carry based on some form of negotiation. So that selection and the pricing, those are the things that already have had a big impact online. Customers tell us all the time about those things.



Ms. Modahl: We did a study of consumer behavior on pricing engines. These are the Web sites that compare and find prices. And consumers in great majority buy the lowest-priced branded source. So they don't buy universally the absolutely lowest price. They will pay a 10% or 15% premium on average for the branded source for the same product. So they want to make sure they are not going to bucket shops or places they have never heard of. But they do want to make sure that they are in the money with the competitive price.



Mr. Stemberg: I think the actual transformational stuff is a lot less visible than some of the more visible things we are talking about here. To look within our own company, it is incredible today that there are virtually no more reports being printed, centrally. Everything goes onto the Web, and you access it and print what you need. That saves an incredible amount of time, an incredible amount of money and UPS and FedEx charges shipping things all around the countryside that some people needed and some people didn't. You get exactly what you need. We today post our vendor shipping performance on our Web site. So our vendor, who is going to get penalized for late shipments and so forth, at any time knows exactly where every one of his shipments stands, what his on-time percentages and fill-rate percentages are, on the Staple vendor Web site.


Those kinds of relatively invisible changes are going to be far more profound than this notion of the big auto manufacturers posting all their needs on the Web, somehow they are going to drive prices down. I just don't think that is going to happen. I think standardization and paperwork-flow process improvements will happen. I think the real benefits are far more visible and have to do with process.



WSJ: Efficiencies.



Mr. Stemberg: Tremendous efficiencies.


Promise of Personalization

Mr. Eisenmann: You ask where the promise has fallen short so far. I think one area is personalization. There are not many Web sites that have the kind of relationship with their customer or mastery of the tools that you need to actually, dynamically serve content and commerce opportunities that are relevant to individual consumers. It is coming. There are a lot of companies working on the technology. But this was a big part of the promise of the Web, that it was going to be very individualized. And it is very hard. Companies have spent much, much more energy acquiring customers than figuring out how to serve them individually.



WSJ: Why do you think the personalization has not happened? How much do you think that has to do with the serendipity of intellectual discovery? It is easy for me to say what five areas I am interested in reading about. But when I browse, I see something that I never would have imagined I am interested in.



Mr. Eisenmann: I think that the point you raise is a big issue. I think if we actually delivered on the promise, there would be a danger that the Web would become a self-circular phenomenon. And you would only get what you have done before.



Ms. Modahl: Transaction costs. Transaction costs are not zero, and the Web doesn't make them zero. That was a big lie—the frictionless economy. Remember the whole frictionless talk three or four years ago? Perhaps a fallen-short promise. The talk was that the Web was going to remove all friction. And so therefore there would be in fact the true transaction, the true economy in which transaction cost was zero. What turns out to be true transaction costs are different in the Internet economy than they were before the Internet. And where transaction costs exist is different. And I am not sure that that is even fully understood. I certainly don't feel that I understand fully about that yet.



Mr. Stemberg: The one thing I would say to add to the list of disappointments is this notion that everything would be cheaper on the Web. The facts of the matter, I will cite. The fastest-selling item in our stores is copy paper. It sells for an average of about 20 bucks for one of these 60-pound boxes. There has not been, there is not and there will never be someone who can figure out how to have this ordered over the Internet and delivered cheaper than the human hands of a customer putting it in the shopping cart and putting it into his or her own car. It is not going to happen. Slow-turning inventory items, for sure, can be cheaper on the Web. High-pilferage items can be cheaper on the Web. But the notion that someday Amazon is going to be able to sell a drill cheaper than Home Depot is just pure nonsense.



WSJ: Joe, do you agree with that?



Mr. Galli: I think when you take an item, whether it is a drill or a telephone, you are dealing with a high ASP, it has got a large marketing component.



WSJ: High which?



Mr. Stemberg: Average selling price.



Mr. Galli: High marketing, advertising, point-of-sale costs. So if you take an item that is $150 or $200 . . .



Mr. Stemberg: Let's stick with a $30 drill here for the time being.



Mr. Galli: OK. If a $30 drill has a full-color package and it is displayed in a beautiful point-of-purchase-oriented cardboard display, and has a sales rep who is setting that up, those are all costs that in an Internet model aren't necessary. So once you find manufacturers recognizing the potential savings that they can achieve by developing an Internet model and recognizing Internet channels, I think there is some opportunity for savings. That doesn't mean that the prices will be lower or higher. But I think the actual costs of delivering . . .



Mr. Stemberg: It is going to cost you 20% or 30% to ship that $30 item. It is not going to work out.



Mr. Galli: There is one other factor, which is that an Internet model doesn't have stores. And the fixed capital and working capital that are associated with the store represents large costs. It costs a typical big-box retailer $8 million or $9 million of fixed capital to put up a store. And then there is the working-capital implications. And in an Internet model . . .



Mr. Stemberg: I think Home Depot's cost structure forever will be lower than yours. On their key, core categories. Again, in books that is not true necessarily. But in many merchandise categories, the Internet overpromised.



Ms. Modahl: On the area of disappointments of the Internet, I think it is extremely important to mention graphics, multimedia. In the early discussions of 1994, there was the idea of video right around the corner, audio all the time, incredibly immersive. And what you saw was Web sites quickly realizing that the consumers, because of bandwidth constraints, found this unacceptable. And so quickly sites ripped all the visuals out as fast as they could and got down to text. If you look at the entire trajectory, the development of the Internet, this is one of the things that I think should help us all to understand how early it is and what early days we are still in. Because the current state of the Web site is not going to be the final answer here from the computer industry and the technology industry.



WSJ: Is there anything you would like to ask each other?



Ms. Modahl: I want to know if Amazon is going to go after Staples' business.



Mr. Galli: We never discuss what we may or may not do in the future in terms of specific initiatives. We have tremendous respect for Staples. And for that matter, Home Depot and other companies we are talking about. I think the good news is that you are talking retailing, there is a $5 trillion market—a lot of room for well-managed companies to carve out a niche and to succeed and flourish in the future.


I am sure there are many, many complexities in the office-products world that require careful thought. I wouldn't underestimate any of that. I can tell you we do sell an awful lot of books and other products that are used in and around the office. But I don't know what that might mean in terms of our future plans. We have plenty on our plate right now.



Ms. Modahl: The other question is about business school. There was that huge trend of M.B.A.s going straight to dot-coms. Is the spring market different? Is everybody going back to McKinsey [strategic consulting] with their hat in hand?



Mr. Eisenmann: The spring market is very different. In a class of 900 graduating M.B.A.s last year, we had 35 teams launch venture-backed start-ups. That's a pretty large number. Not quite approaching 10% of the class, but a large number of teams. And many of those teams got going well past graduation. So it is hard to know where things are right now and where they will shake out. But my colleague Bill Sahlmann, who runs the entrepreneurship unit, has estimated that it is down by about half this year.



WSJ: That is spring over spring?



Mr. Eisenmann: This class of 2000 compared to the class of 1999. And that feels right to me in terms of the work I have been doing with student teams. So, a big change. It is very interesting.



Mr. Stemberg: I have a couple of questions for Joe. One of which is: You have had the wonderful good fortune of seeing how the employee attraction/retention model works during years of upticks and jumps in your market valuation. How is that working as it is coming down?



Mr. Galli: As the stock has gone through a correction there have been some retention issues. Clearly, when the stock is climbing 10% a quarter, that is a different climate, and you have all types of employees, short-or long-term career, anxious to stay. I think that in an environment that we have today you have much more of a focus on long-term-oriented employees, people who are in it for the long haul and have a vision for the company. They see this as a blip. For people who were looking for something quick, this probably creates an environment that is not right for them. So in some ways it is kind of a self-selection process. That doesn't say we don't take it very seriously. Because we do. We have outstanding talent. And we are bending over backward to create an environment where people are excited and motivated to stay and continue to build wealth and create the right kind of financial security for their family. It is definitely a different time than a year ago.



WSJ: It sounds like maybe the turnover rate is up, Joe. Is it?



Mr. Galli: Yes, it is slightly higher. It is not way up. It is not an alarming trend. When people make a lot of money very quickly, that gives them independence. And so it is not like there was never any turnover in the environment. But I think it is a different kind of turnover. And I think it requires different kinds of management strategies to deal with that. Our people are routinely contacted by recruiters for other opportunities. And we have been awfully fortunate so far in holding on to our talent.



Mr. Stemberg: Joe, do you worry at all that when Congress ends the pure-play resellers' tax advantage, for the Internet, vis-a-vis the sales and use tax, that that will impact you?



Mr. Galli: It is our feeling that we worry about things that we can control. We do believe that even in the state of Washington—where we do have a sales tax imposed on us because we benefit from Washington state's public works—our sales per capita are the same as they are throughout the rest of the country. So people buy from Amazon.com because of their selection and because of the convenience and because there is a level of trust with the brand. And so we will follow any rules. We just believe that we have a long-term model no matter what way that goes.



Ms. Modahl: Research shows that it is not a major issue for consumers. Except in the age group of 16 to 21, which has an average $3,000 income and therefore any kind of shipping cost or additional sales tax is a major issue for them. But beyond that, it is not a consumer issue.



WSJ: Someone should explain this issue.



Mr. Stemberg: Current law is that you only have to collect a sales tax where you have nexus. So in Joe's case he collects it in Washington and I am sure in Kansas, where he has a big facility across the street from our store, or wherever else he has nexus. Where you have any presence. If you are Staples, to an extent, you will create some sort of corporate shield from that. But in theory wherever you have a store, you have to collect a sales tax.


The Prospect of Regulation

WSJ: Let me turn that around on you. Although it may not apply in Staples' case, certainly there are examples where the pre-Internet companies have regulatory advantages. Car dealers, for instance, have statutes that make it mighty hard to sell a car directly online. Wine retailers have similar statutes. Who does regulation favor in this sphere, really?



Mr. Stemberg: In general, and perhaps appropriately so, there has been a feeling in Washington that one should let the Internet take off and get off the ground and find its level. I think there is a general acceptance of the fact that one should not tax Internet access. I think there is a general understanding that as Internet sales grow, say, to 20% of total retailing, the small shopkeeper on Main Street who sells books should not be at a 5%—or in some cases in New York, close to a 10%—price disadvantage to Amazon. That isn't fair. And my sense is that you will see Congress in the next year or two find a solution and make it easier to collect sales tax.



WSJ: Joe, what are your thoughts on that?



Mr. Galli: I think there is spirited debate on the subject of taxation. And I think there is a large population of people that would be opposed to any form of additional taxation. Particularly in this case where there is no local benefit derived from when you ship your book or any product into a state where there is not presence. So my thought is that what we do at Amazon.com is we worry about our customers. I agree with the research that says that there is more reason for people to buy from an Internet vendor like an Amazon than just the lack of tax. There is just a lot more to it than that.



WSJ: How long before some of the same regulation will apply to the Internet that applies to everything else?



Mr. Galli: My hope is that we have thoughtful regulation. I always worry when there is too much intervention—unless it benefits customers somehow.



Mr. Stemberg: The current law, though, just to drive the point home, Joe, means that Barnes & Noble.com—so they can compete with you from an Internet taxation point of view—does not accept returns from the stores. I am dying to have you explain to me how that helps the customer.



Mr. Galli: I think they would have the choice of collecting taxes and acknowledging . . .



Mr. Stemberg: The point is that I think the current laws of the states don't help the customers, and in many cases actually hurt the customers.



Ms. Modahl: I think regulation is going to turn out to be a giant hairball because most regulation is actually written specifically with geography in mind. And usually it has to do also with scarcity. So for example, in the media, why is content regulated in broadcast networks? Well, in part because there were a limited few broadcast networks. We don't have a scarcity of ability to deliver content on the Internet. If anything, we have way too much content on the Internet. There is no lack of access for anybody to talk about anything on the Internet. So the regulation is not very applicable or appropriate. When you go outside the U.S., some of these regulations become even more crazy. I mean, you go on the Internet and somebody in Italy buys a product from a site that happens to be located in England. Now it is delivered and they don't like it. Who is responsible for the return? Do the laws of Italy govern or do the laws of the U.K. govern this? This is the most fundamental aspect of a lot of regulation that covers most consumer industries. It was written without the Internet in mind.



Mr. Stemberg: I have had experience with Amazon as a customer, and if you have a problem, they actually take care of the problem. At Staples, if you have a problem, our policy will certainly take care of that, no questions asked. Therefore you wouldn't need a regulation on return policies if every company behaved the way Staples and Amazon do. Unfortunately not every company will behave that way, and in time Congress, when they hear lots of problems, will stick their nose into it and will put out regulations which I am sure to Joe and myself will end up being cumbersome. That's the way the world works.



Mr. Eisenmann: I don't know if you want to call it regulation or legislation, but patent law is a huge issue here. Privacy is a huge issue.



Mr. Stemberg: And if you are in the music business, copyright is a huge issue.



Mr. Eisenmann: There are going to be lots of opportunities going forward for the government to get very much involved with how the Internet evolves.



Ms. Modahl: I think privacy is a looming dark issue before the Internet. And the Internet now makes consumers aware of how much of an issue it really is. Because now they can go to a site and they can look themselves up and they can find out how much information has been collected about them. I think you can actually go back the other way—where people will say, hey, what about privacy not on the Internet? Just regular old privacy. Let's have a look at what these direct-mail companies actually do. I think it could create a whole host of regulation.


Mr. Putka, chief of The Wall Street Journal's Boston bureau, served as contributing editor of this report.













TWENTY-SIX

Meet the Family


BY LAURA LANDRO



July 17, 2000



When Nantucket insurance broker Nat Reeder decided to propose to his girlfriend, Leslee Walkup, on the island last year, it seemed only natural to do it on the cover of a Curran catalog.









His Seattle-based high-school chum Jeff Curran was only too happy to help out. The two concocted an elaborate scheme: Mr. Curran would print a photo of the couple on the cover of the spring 1999 Curran home-furnishings catalog with the caption, "Leslee, will you marry me?" Mr. Curran would then FedEx an advance copy to Leslee, who, as a big fan of the catalogs, would no doubt rip open the package immediately. Turning to the inside cover, she would be instructed that if the answer was yes, she should go directly to curranonline.com, where directions for a scavenger hunt leading her to Nat were waiting. If her answer was no, she would be directed to the high-speed ferry schedule off the island.


Things didn't go as smoothly as planned. Leslee opened the package and screamed with delight, but couldn't get her computer online that morning and called Mr. Curran frantically at 6:30 a.m. Seattle time. He faxed the scavenger-hunt instructions to her, even as Nat, waiting at a lighthouse several miles away, was also calling him anxiously to find out Leslee's whereabouts. Finally, Leslee says, it all came together, and "I drove 100 miles an hour over the potholes" to make it to the lighthouse, where champagne, pepperoni pizza, and Nat on bended knee with diamond ring awaited her.


In a world of impersonal e-commerce sites, the 35-year-old Mr. Curran has built Curran Catalog LLC into a successful hybrid of old-fashioned catalog and Web retailer by personalizing to the nth degree. Though Mr. Curran doesn't make a habit of staging marriage proposals, his catalogs have become keepsakes for a growing network of "family and friends" who are just as interested in keeping up with everyone else's personal business as they are in checking out the latest thing in lawn tiki torches. Alongside ordering information for whatever Mr. Curran is selling that season—Gloster teak furniture, Planta sisal rugs and Egyptian cotton towels—the catalogs feature snapshots, news tidbits and humorous commentary about customers and suppliers, with a heavy emphasis on engagements, weddings, new babies, parties and vacations.


Compared with most catalog businesses, Curran is still small potatoes: After five years, it has about 10,000 customers on its mailing list and annual revenue of just over $1 million. But with many high-ticket items, the average order is about $1,800. "If the average order is high in a small universe you can do very well," says catalog consultant Richard Grunsten. Despite its size, he adds, Curran's business model "is the future of the industry—higher and higher levels of personalization and more interactivity with a Web site."


Sandy Nash, a Boston customer, says, "Jeff has done a masterful job of combining the two things he loves most—people and product." Mrs. Nash, who sends family photos to Curran, adds, "He really nurtures the relationship with family and friends, and he's created a special niche—he has good high-end products at reasonable prices."


Starting out as a manufacturer's representative to retailers a decade ago, Mr. Curran has parlayed his strong relationships with suppliers into special deals that allow him to sell luxury products at a discount, with manufacturers usually shipping directly to the customers. The companion Web site, started last spring, is accessible to customers via a password provided in the catalogs, and is steadily building an additional e-commerce revenue stream by offering close-out sales and special deals that Mr. Curran ferrets out from his contacts, who typically sell to much bigger accounts but like Mr. Curran and his mix-business-with-friendship strategy.


"Jeff's catalog as well as his Web site have a tongue-in-cheek humor and straightforward, simple approach that I think people find refreshing," says Charles Anderson, whose company, Artex, makes tablecloths, linens and napkins that Mr. Curran sells. "He is not necessarily trying to triple his business each year like all the dot-coms. He is trying to service his customers in the best way he can."


What makes Mr. Curran's devotion to the Old Economy catalog business all the more notable is the fact that his father, John Curran, 62, recently jumped on the New Economy bandwagon, joining longtime friend and associate Roger Horchow, the luxury catalog pioneer of the Horchow Collection, in an Internet start-up. Mr. Curran is now chief merchandising executive and virtual-store manager for Good-Home.com, a home-furnishings and interior-design site partly owned by Hearst Corp. The elder Mr. Curran had retired after a career as a brick-and-mortar merchandising executive, with stints at Neiman Marcus, Gump's, Federated Department Stores and the museum stores of New York's Metropolitan Museum of Art. But just as John Curran encouraged his son to start the catalog business five years ago, Jeff Curran was the one who urged his father to take the Internet plunge.


"It wasn't that I chose the dot-com route over what he was doing," says John Curran. "It was just a coincidence. Jeff said, 'What have you got to lose? If it works, you'll have a whole new business career.' "


For his part, Jeff Curran likes what the Internet has done to expand his business and expedite the bargains he can offer to customers, but the catalog is his focus. "With the catalog, I've already got this community and this base of customers," says Mr. Curran. "The Internet is really just a way of communicating with them, allowing them to communicate with each other, and keeping our community together."


To fill in catalog customers about the outcome of the Nantucket caper, for example, Mr. Curran posted Ms. Walkup's affirmative answer on the Web site. And a year later, a montage of photos from the Reeder-Walkup wedding were published in the spring 2000 catalog—right next to the new line of Summer Classics never-rust patio furniture. And the catalogs are Mr. Curran's own family keepsake—his own relatives are frequently pictured, from the niece and nephew who graced the cover of the summer 1997 catalog to the senior Mr. Curran and some of his friends, who happen to be parents of many of the younger Mr. Curran's circle.


Indeed, the two Currans had an auspicious start together in combining social relationships with selling: When John Curran was a young father in Chappaqua, N.Y., a neighbor in the advertising industry recruited him and Jeff, then five years old, for a TV commercial. In 1970 , they were a fixture on national TV, Jeff on his father's shoulders eating chocolate while they strolled along to the refrain, "There's nothing like the face of a kid eating a Hershey bar . . ."


But while the father and son made one or two other commercials along the way, John was loath to follow in his father's footsteps in the merchandising business. "I never wanted to do what Dad did—I wanted to be a doctor, a lawyer, something different," Jeff says.


After attending private schools and college in the East, he found himself drawn back to Seattle, where his family went back five generations. He had a brief and unhappy flirtation with real-estate development, and then reluctantly agreed to consider some kind of sales when his father urged that Jeff look up some of his own contacts and check out opportunities to represent manufacturers of various gifts and housewares. "I didn't know a candlestick from a tablecloth, but I decided this was stuff I could sell," says Jeff, who began driving around the state as a manufacturer's rep and visiting trade shows to secure new lines.


The connection to his father helped get him in a few doors—the resemblance between the two was strong, and "they'd take one look at me at the trade show and say, 'You've got to be John Curran's son,' " Jeff says. "They loved my father, and they were happy to have me rep their lines." In 1990, he opened his own showroom for furniture and linens in Seattle and was soon doing a brisk business from San Francisco to Alaska with retailers such as Gardener's Eden, Pottery Barn, Williams-Sonoma, Macy's and Nordstrom. At that time his father was the merchandise manager at luxury-housewares retail chain Gump's, but he never bought anything from Jeff to avoid the appearance of nepotism.


In 1995, just as the Web began to percolate, Jeff Curran attended a conference about online shopping hosted by CompuServe, but concluded that e-tailing wasn't about to come to pass just then. Occasionally friends would drop by the showroom and want to buy something, but it was "kind of a pain to sell them one thing," Jeff says. He thought about putting out a little brochure and sending it out to friends and family with some of the most popular items. Then, on a plane trip back from New York he sat next to Wall Street money manager Mario Gabelli and had a long talk about entrepreneurship. Mr. Gabelli's advice got him motivated: "Don't think—do."


The next day he bought a Photoshop computer program and borrowed a scanner from Barb Ferguson, a graphic designer with whom he shared office space. He used them to make up a rudimentary flier with grainy photos he scanned in from other catalogs, and a goofy cutout of himself in blazer and jeans. "Over the years I've been approached by many of you who have wanted to buy from me directly at wholesale, so I decided to ask my manufacturers if they would be willing to let me put together a catalog," Jeff Curran said in an introductory note. He would charge an additional 8% to 15% to cover his costs and make a small profit. Just for fun, he included a snapshot of Sam Keator, a friend who happened to be passing through Seattle for a visit, holding some polar fleece that Mr. Curran had in stock.


Suddenly, Mr. Curran was juggling his rep business with a burgeoning catalog operation. Orders began coming in for linens, polar fleece and cotton towels, along with requests to send the flier to someone else. In 1996, Mr. Curran hired an assistant, Marissa Nolan, who began focusing on upgrading the design of the catalogs and writing the text for the merchandise. Meanwhile, many of his friends were getting married and having babies, and Mr. Curran was always there taking photos. He began including them in the catalog, with captions that Ms. Nolan helped write, and also began soliciting snapshots from friends.


Mr. Curran also realized he was building a brand name of his own. When he offered a polar-fleece vest with the Curran logo, the inventory quickly sold out. "People would see each other in Central Park or something wearing it and say, 'Hey, you must know Jeff,' " Mr. Curran says. "At that point I realized it was a kind of connection." A garden bench with the Curran logo was another big seller. "We started getting orders now from people who didn't really know me, who were friends of friends," he says.


Ms. Nash of Boston was one of them. "I saw a catalog in a friend's house," she says. "I really wished I could have my family picture in there, so I sent him one, even though he didn't know me from a hole in the wall." Ms. Nash became a regular customer and passed along the word to more of her friends and family. "The Curran catalog has replaced the piles of People magazines in my house, and friends who come over always want to grab it when they see it," she says.


Before long, Curran was mailing out 4,500 catalogs, and moved from color photocopies to professional printing and glossy paper. But even as the business grew, Mr. Curran kept adding more photos and personal touches. A picture of Nat Reeder's father, Dusty, in one catalog caught the eye of Curran friend Emily Mallory's mother, who thought he looked familiar and sent an e-mail to Jeff asking if it was the same Dusty Reeder who had gone to the Hotchkiss School in the 1950s. It was, and it turned out that the two had been part of a group that took a trip to California in 1957 but had since lost touch. Dusty Reeder sent in a bunch of photos from the vacation, and they appeared on the cover and inside the fall 1997 catalog.


Mr. Curran also featured pictures and personal stories about his suppliers, including William Bew White III, the owner of one of Mr. Curran's biggest outdoor-furniture lines, Summer Classics, Birmingham, Ala. In the photo caption Mr. Curran poked good-natured fun at him, calling him "a man of many talents except golf. Sorry I beat you so badly. Bew and his wife Wendy just celebrated their 25th wedding anniversary." In the previous catalog, a small picture of Mr. White with hunting cap and rifle appeared with the caption "Buy my furniture or I'll shoot."


Mr. White's sales from Curran are considerably less than from his biggest catalog and retail outlets like Crate & Barrel and Restoration Hardware, but he says he sticks with Mr. Curran "because he's a friend." Likewise, Shree Prasad, owner of New York-based Hillcrest Bed Linens, whose products are also sold through big catalogs like the Company Store, agreed to let Mr. Curran sell his line after getting to know him as a retail representative. "He sells things for lower prices, but he also works off lower margins," Mr. Prasad says. "And he's always asking if we have any canceled orders or closeouts he can sell on the Web site."


Recently, for example, Mr. Curran e-mailed customers about "a screaming deal on 400 thread count" sheet sets, adding that he had just returned from a bed, bath and linen trade show and Hillcrest had given him an exceptional deal on the sheets. In such cases, Mr. Curran has to buy the merchandise and stock it in some warehouse space he has, then ship it to customers himself. Mr. Curran now charges about a 20% markup for most products—still far below the 50% and higher markups rivals charge.


Mr. Curran's suppliers find the "family and friends" aspect of Curran innovative, if a bit amusing in its insularity. As the new Mrs. Reeder (née Walkup) puts it, "We're a pretty incestuous group—you could call it four degrees of separation." There is a preponderance of blond, blue-eyed babies, Nantucket beach scenes, sailboat crews and weddings at private clubs. Many of the same people appear over and over again in the catalogs, and most do have that ancestors-came-over-on-the-Mayflower look. "It's one yup-manship," jokes Mr. White. "Yuppie times 12." Adds Mr. Prasad, "I tell Jeff, 'I'm from India—how come my pictures aren't in there?' " In fact, Mr. Curran did put a picture of Mr. Prasad and his brothers in one of the catalogs, mentioning that he is "the new papa of baby Jay and loving it." Mr. Prasad says Mr. Curran does ask him for photos regularly.


Mr. Curran says his approach makes manufacturers and customers "feel like it's a fun company, and they want to be part of it. Even if they don't know a soul, and they make fun of all the people with names like Muffy, and they didn't come from that background, they love it. It's fun and it's family-focused." Some people are both suppliers and customers—Mr. Andersen of Artex says his wife has purchased a number of items from Curran, including outdoor furniture, coats, and sheets and towels, and feels the values are "excellent." He adds, "We enjoy getting the catalog and reading about the 'family.' " As for the Web site, he says the password "leaves the impression that the visitor is entering an exclusive area not available to everyone, which is the truth."


In addition to offering quick deals, the Curranonline Web site, launched in 1998, is becoming something of a home page for catalog customers, who send in updates and additional photos, promote their own businesses and projects, and contribute columns and other "content" if they want. Warren Miller, a director of skiing movies who was introduced to Curran by a friend, offered to provide the Web site with his weekly syndicated column featuring tales from his travels. Another friend is peddling a CD of children's songs available in the MP3 music format. The site is also accepting free classifieds—rentals in the San Juan Islands and Nantucket, contractors for hire—but adds a disclaimer saying it isn't responsible: "Of course, we know most of you, and don't want to imply that we're questioning what you send, but we also have to cover our rear ends. Legalities. You understand."


The password to the Web site is printed with the curranonline.com Web address in the catalog, so that anyone who gets the catalog can get into the site. The password, in Mr. Curran's view, creates an extra measure of privacy for the personal photos—and for the discounted prices, which the manufacturers say they don't want widely advertised. The Web site allows customers to ask for new catalogs if they've lost one, and they can also sign on a friend to check it out—before Curran will send a catalog, it asks for the identity of the referring friend, explaining that "it's not a big deal, but we like to keep track of how word of the catalog has spread."


Mr. Curran has developed line extensions for both the catalog and Web side of the business. After meeting a jewelry manufacturer on a plane, he put together a separate jewelry catalog with discounted prices on brooches, earrings, necklaces and bracelets. Mr. Curran asked many of his friends and family around Seattle to model such baubles as a gold basket-weave necklace that he sells for $800 and usually retails for $1,150. Mr. Curran's mother modeled a pair of gold Starfish earrings that he sells for $1,040, a discount from the $1,450 retail price.


Another offshoot is Sisal.com, a separate Web site that Mr. Curran started because he realized he could offer something most other sellers of the popular carpets couldn't—custom-size rugs. He partnered with manufacturer Merida Sisal Carpet, which provides samples to send out to customers who then order to measure. The Web site also includes information on cleaning, design and the various weaves of sisal.


Curran assures its customers in both the catalog and Web sites that it will "never ever EVER sell our mailing list. We've grown entirely by word of mouth, and buying and selling names goes against everything we do. We'd sooner BURN our mailing list than sell it. So please don't worry!" But Mr. Curran admits he is increasingly being approached "by a lot of people who want access to the community." So far he has no intention of linking up with anyone else or expanding to a point where it might threaten the niche he has built. "I really don't have any set plans for the future other than expanding the product offering and expanding the mailing list organically," he says. "Everything thus far has basically been by the seat of my pants. I was never in it to make a fortune—it's the opportunity to put the people together with the product."


If anything, he sometimes wonders how it came to take over his life so completely. Though he still acts as a manufacturer's representative for some of his big accounts, that business is dwindling as he puts more energy into the catalog and its offshoots. Besides him and Ms. Nolan, the only full-time employee is Dawn Jones, who joined last October to take over customer-service duties and manage the office. Graphic designer Ms. Ferguson now designs and lays out the catalogs. Mr. Curran spends much of his time on the road or working in the light-filled, loft-like office space, which offers a spectacular view of the Seattle harbor and Puget Sound. On clear days, he can see the snow-capped peaks of the Olympic Mountains.


That's some consolation for the long hours—such as the day last year when he was dealing with a sisal carpet customer while in the street below riot police were pushing back protesters during a meeting of the World Trade Organization. Mr. Curran heard the pop of tear-gas canisters and looked out the window at the melee, but stuck with the customer. "I can't get away from it," he sighs.


One thing Mr. Curran's friends and family would love to see in a future catalog: some pictures of Mr. Curran with his own wife and family. Mr. Curran says he's game; in one recent week, he was given three phone numbers of women his friends are trying to set him up with. "Who knows what tomorrow will bring?" he says.


Ms. Landro is a senior editor for The Wall Street Journal in New York.













TWENTY-SEVEN

A Matter of Degree


BY ANN GRIMES



July 17, 2000



Perhaps nowhere is the pinch between the old way of doing business and the new being felt more acutely than in the very birthplace of the Internet: the hallowed halls of academia.









Some $6 billion in venture capital has flowed into the education sector since 1990—almost half of it since last year, when Cisco Systems Inc.'s John Chambers dubbed education "the next big killer application on the Internet." Analysts expect new investment of $4 billion in the sector this year.


From notHarvard.com to UniversityAccess.com to Medschool.com, the Internet landscape is now dotted with learning ventures offering everything from corporate training to software designed to improve the ways schools run to long-distance learning. With so many entrepreneurs out to chip away at their brick-and-mortar souls, colleges and universities of all stripes are defending their turf—and what analysts estimate to be a $250 billion market.


As a result, universities are moving more quickly than many industry observers expected to show that Virtual U's—such as Kaplan College, Capella University, or Apollo Group Inc.'s University of Phoenix Online (which claims a virtual student body of 60,000)—aren't all they're cracked up to be. While maintaining a stranglehold over degree granting and intellectual property, traditional schools are also carving out a space for themselves in the for-profit education world, trumping some e-learning companies at their own game.


"I do not think the highest-quality brick-and-mortar universities are directly threatened by this set of initiatives—the online universities," says Columbia University President George Rupp. "But that doesn't mean it's not a threat."


Indeed, universities now realize that the world has changed, says Michael B. Goldstein, head of the educational-institutions practice at Dow, Lohnes & Albertson, a Washington, D.C., legal firm. "They've discovered capitalism," he says. "They are creating for-profit engines without becoming for-profit."


All over the country, distance learning has taken off. Of the 1,028 accredited two- and four-year institutions surveyed recently by Market Data Retrieval, 72% offered online courses last year, up from 48% the year before. Meanwhile, 34% offered an accredited distance program, compared with 15% in 1998.


And many e-learning efforts, including those at New York University, Cornell and the University of Maryland—which has offered distance-learning classes to the military for 50 years—are being spun off as for-profit ventures. NYUonline announced plans this year to go public. And Maryland hopes to tap venture capital to help with development costs and the marketing of hundreds of online courses.


"The best defense is a good offense," says Dr. Rupp, who has spearheaded Columbia's online efforts. In May, the university announced plans to offer nondegree continuing-education courses—initially such basics as computer classes and English as a second language, but more traditional academic offerings later on. The university also launched Columbia Innovation Enterprises, which will speed faculty ideas to market and hopefully prevent top professors from being picked off by for-profits eager to market their courses. Earlier this year, the university launched an independent for-profit company, Fathom.com, which will distribute the intellectual property of Columbia and other institutions online.


"Universities are knowledge entrepreneurs, and intellectual capital is a huge resource for them," says Ann Kirchner, Fathom.com's chief executive. "They are world-renowned brands."


But they are also bureaucratic organizations that move at what by Internet standards is a glacial pace. Fortunately, Columbia "made the determination to put its best competitive foot forward to attract a team that understands the sensibility of the university but that is bilingual—in academics and capitalism," Ms. Kirchner says.


Other universities are trying to do the same. The University of Illinois has launched an independent venture-capital fund, dubbed iVentures, designed to fuel campus start-ups and hang on to faculty entrepreneurs. The university will own a stake in new companies and plow its share of profits back into the fund to seed more start-ups.


After years of watching some of Silicon Valley's hottest start-ups take shape on its campus, Stanford University this spring launched its first for-profit company: e-Skolar Inc., a search engine for healthcare professionals developed at the medical school. The university will hold a 60% equity stake.


Stanford is also becoming more aggressive about protecting its "brand." In March, the university sued Stanford Microdevices Inc., a Sunnyvale, Calif., electronics company, for trademark infringement. Proximity to Silicon Valley and opportunities in the marketplace "make it more important to protect the value of Stanford's name and reputation and not allow others to use it," says Debra Zumwalt, the university's acting general counsel. Both Columbia's and Stanford's for-profit ventures are typical in that they target "lifelong" learners, not the traditional core students, Mr. Goldstein says: "They are using technology on campus, substantially—but these investments are primarily to reach out to adult learners." And to make money.


Only one in six of the nation's 15 million college students fits the stereotype of "youth-centered education"—students ages 18 to 22 who live on campus and attend school for four consecutive years. The number of adult students is expected to increase as baby boomers age. Meanwhile, the corporate e-learning market totaled about $1 billion in revenue in 1999 and will reach $11.4 billion by 2003, according to International Data Corp., a Framingham, Mass., research firm. The online market in higher education totals $1.2 billion and is expected to grow to $7 billion by 2003, according to Merrill Lynch.


All that plus the successful initial public offerings of education companies such as Saba Software Inc. and Digital Think Inc. have caught the attention of high-profile investors. Microsoft Corp. co-founder Paul Allen has backed Click2Learn.com, an e-learning portal, while Oracle Corp. Chief Executive Larry Ellison has teamed up with former junk-bond king Michael Milken to start Knowledge Universe Inc., which focuses on lifelong learning.


"It's a nascent market," says Thomas Weisel analyst Fred McCrea. "Strategies are in flux, and a lot of questions out there haven't been answered yet."


Among them: What happens to the many middle-and lower-tier schools that survive through cross-subsidies? Patrick Clinton, editor of University Business magazine, says they lose money on their traditional, core programs—on educating undergraduates—and they pay for them in part by making money on business and professional courses. "Colleges may well keep their traditional students but lose their cash-cow students," he says.


Observers such as Mr. Clinton also envision a loss of students through what he calls "unplug-and-play" educators. Such freestanding companies would "unplug" the basics—big lecture courses like History 101—from a university and teach it online for credit, with technical support, for less cost. "These companies can come in and teach it as well or even better for a third of the cost, streaming information like videotapes and documents over the Internet," Mr. Clinton says.


Duke University in Durham, N.C., offers a 19-month online M.B.A. program called Global Executive for high-potential managers who live anywhere in the world. Tuition for the program, which mixes classroom and Internet-mediated learning: $89,700. (That compares with $57,470 for Duke's typical on-campus M.B.A.)


In 1995 Stanford began offering complete video-based courses on the Internet, and in 1998 it became the first major research university to offer online a master's degree in engineering. "Engineers have a consumer mentality," says Andy DiPaolo, executive director of Stanford's Center for Professional Development. "They want to test-drive this like a car. Before signing up, they ask, 'Will this course meet my needs?' "


That consumer mentality explains the attraction of a University of Phoenix or Capella University for people who want a career-relevant degree that they can take to an employer to prove competency, experts say. "A principal who wants to become a superintendent needs a Ph.D., not a Columbia Ph.D.," says Joshua Lewis, a general partner with New York investment firm Forstmann Little & Co., which recently invested $35 million in Capella, a Minneapolis-based education company.


Meanwhile, schools such as Stanford and the University of California at Los Angeles have formed partnerships with for-profit companies to develop courses for the online world. Both partnerships—Stanford with Unext Learning Systems, Deerfield, Ill.; and UCLA with OnlineLearning.net, Los Angeles—develop online, nondegree versions of top-tier courses, yet neither company has degree-granting authority. Outgoing Stanford President Gerhard Casper has described his school's alliance with Unext.com as "fairly low-risk."


The University of Pennsylvania has a similar alliance going with Pensare, Inc., a Los Altos, Calif., e-learning company, to develop business-management education programs for its online initiative, Wharton Direct. Wharton also is launching a five-week, Web-based class with professor Jeremy Siegel, a well-known market analyst. "We have to learn how to do this," says Wharton Dean Patrick T. Harker. "The only way is by doing."


Not surprisingly, the move online has met resistance from some faculty suspicious of for-profit ties. "There is no evidence that significant numbers want virtual education, any more than they want virtual anything else when they can have the genuine article," says Scott Rice, an English professor at San Jose State University who is writing a book about online education.


Faculty members at Williams College in Williams-town, Mass., are hotly debating a proposal by Global Education Network—an education company backed by investor Herbert Allen—to put their humanities courses online. Says Williams humanities professor Mark C. Taylor, who has taken a leave to consult with GEN: "In many instances there's resistance to technology, especially by faculty in the arts and humanities who feel what they do can't be duplicated online."


But, says Mr. Taylor, "all this stuff is coming—it's a question of whether institutions can be involved and profit from it and continue to do the thing they do well, at a time when it is increasingly costly." The challenge for colleges like Williams, he says, is to support e-learning in a way that "allows educators to retain quality control over what's occurring."


Ms. Grimes is a staff reporter in The Wall Street Journal's San Francisco bureau.













TWENTY-EIGHT

Behind the Front Lines


BY DEAN TAKAHASHI



July 17, 2000



When it comes to computer games, the most heated competition may not be between the players; instead, it may be between the traditional game magazines and the Internet news sites vying for the players' attention.









The race to deliver the online scoop about dungeons and dragons and all the technology in between is being led by twentysomethings who see the Web as a natural hangout for the world's game players, a heavily wired and gossip-hungry group. Dozens of free gaming-news sites have sprung up in recent years, covering everything from Monopoly to shooting games such as Quake III Arena.


Whether these tabloid-style news sites can ever make serious money for their backers remains unclear. But some of the sites already say they are drawing millions of visitors, while print magazines costing about $8 an issue command smaller audiences of hundreds of thousands.


For the world's mostly male computer-game players, it all adds up to a factoid fantasy. Never have so many publishers had so much to say about mythical beasts and warrior princesses and the computer bugs that accidentally wipe out your log of victories in a game such as Delta Force 2.


The intensifying competition helps explain why Dennis Fong, a 23-year-old game-industry whiz, felt compelled to engineer a splashy launch party for the young gaming site Gamers.com in Los Angeles in May. His six-month-old site was one of the first game "information portals" to be blessed with venture capital—about $11 million from Internet incubator CMGI Inc.—and it needs to make a splash soon.


The solution was one worthy of the gaming world's male fantasyland: a party co-sponsored by Gamers.com at the Playboy Mansion. Game-industry movers and shakers who were in town for a trade show took time out to mingle with Playboy models strolling around the pool in Gamers.com T-shirts.


"This is our coming-out party," says Mr. Fong, pausing under a massive white tent at the mansion. He then delivers what sounds like a mission statement: "We're the ones that are going to make sense of all the news coming from all the fan sites, magazines and news sites on the Web."


Well, maybe. Since its birth in November, the company has hired more than 100 people, including prominent editors from competing game magazines. Mr. Fong was able to lure these people in part because he is one of the computer-game industry's few celebrity players—a contestant who went by the name "Thresh" and was undefeated as a player of the popular shooting games Doom and Quake.


Mr. Fong's hiring of top journalists caused some puzzlement. People weren't sure whether his free Web site was an independent journalism outlet or a promoter of things related to games. It's the kind of question inherent to the gaming-news business, where lots of readers and writers are longtime fans.


Mr. Fong says Gamers.com is striving to be a credible source of information, serving only the consumer. It doesn't emphasize producing its own news or reviews. Instead it offers links to news and reviews from other sites, downloadable demos and game tips—along with links to products to buy. It hopes to make money by selling ads and charging commissions on services, such as the trading of used games.


Rivals say the site has one big weakness: none of its own content. "Without that, you might find people will only visit the site for about 10 seconds before they go off to somewhere else," says Rob Smith, editor in chief of PC Gamer, which is published by Imagine Media Inc. and says it is the largest computer-game magazine, with a base of 375,000 subscribers. Mr. Smith adds: "In a lot of ways, the online gaming press still has to grow up."


The adolescent Web media do have one edge over their print rivals: demographics. Most hard-bitten gamers are techno-savvy types who don't mind reading reams of material on their computer screens. They are the driving force behind the $8.9 billion in annual U.S. sales of computer and video-game hardware, software and accessories.


According to Ziff-Davis Media Inc., about 70% of gamers have online access. They are riveted by every wrinkle of news about their favorite games. They don't even mind waiting long periods for their computers to download graphics-rich game images and demos.


At the same time, magazines are regarded as the established, credible sources, says Lee Uniacke, group publisher of Ziff-Davis Media's game group and the publisher of the magazines Computer Gaming World, Electronic Games Monthly, Expert Gamer and Official PlayStation. Mr. Uniacke compares the game magazines to publications such as Sports Illustrated that manage to win a big following for well-written features and analysis despite the blanket coverage of sporting events on TV, the Web and elsewhere.


The game-news Web sites are in "the vanguard of what happens in gaming culture," says Mr. Uniacke. "Web readers are usually on a directed information search," he adds. Yet "people still pick up the magazines for the analysis and the context. And magazines remain convenient and portable—something that you can take to the bathroom and read." Ziff-Davis Media has a foot in both camps, with magazines and Web sites under one roof.


At any given time, about a dozen magazines are available on a widespread basis. Game magazines usually have paid circulations of about 200,000 to 500,000, with a "pass-around" audience of perhaps 2.5 people for every magazine bought. Some magazines are narrowly focused game-business trade journals, such as Cyberactive Media Inc.'s Game Week, which has a circulation of 62,000, mostly among retail buyers and game-industry executives. Others target a broader market, with "lifestyle" approaches to gaming and coverage of a wide array of topics.


Meanwhile, some fast-growing sites are being built from what used to be one-person booster sites. "We got started as a fan site, and now we're part of an organization that has 200 employees," says Charles Gray, 29 years old, publisher of the Happy Puppy game-news Web site based in New York. "We didn't start with much. But my ambition is to rule the world."


Most magazine and Web-site profit numbers are unpublished. But Mr. Uniacke believes that only a few of the largest Web sites are profitable, such as Ziff-Davis's GameSpot, which generates most of its money from advertising. That's because the game sites are still fighting a million other Web sites for a relatively small amount of advertising dollars, and because gamers in general won't pay for news unless it comes in the permanent form of a magazine.


On occasion, game journalists in general have been accused of having too cozy a relationship with the sources they cover. This concern is compounded by Web sites that link directly from a game review to an online game-purchasing site.


"It's true that many of us are still gamers first, journalists second," Mr. Smith says.


As the Web sites pick off more of the breaking news, some magazines are seeking to take a more statesmanlike role and become the established voice of the industry. Computer Gaming World, for instance, recently devoted its cover story to an explanatory piece on why The Sims, a game that simulates the life of a human family, has struck a chord with nongamers and become a runaway hit.


"We've got longer lead times, and more time to come up with the stories that will make people think," says George Jones, editor in chief of Computer Gaming World in San Francisco.


Meanwhile, rival Web sites have been scrambling to dig up news nuggets, sometimes hampered by their relative youth and obscurity. Imagine Media was one of the first companies to launch a major gaming Web site, in 1997, with Ign.com. The site, which since been spun off as part of publicly traded Snowball.com, says it has an audience of about two million.


"At first, we weren't taken seriously," says Simon Whitcombe, vice president and network director at Ign.com. "The software publishers would deal with the magazines first, giving them the exclusives." But once the readers showed up, so did the advertisers, he says. And publishers now provide some exclusive content: Electronic Arts Inc., a large game publisher, gave the site an exclusive on the graphic "screen shots" and interviews for its World Is Not Enough video game based on the James Bond movie.


Ziff-Davis's GameSpot and CNet Inc.'s Gamecenter Web sites also have built up large followings for their gaming news. Michael Brown, director of the four-year-old Gamecenter site in San Francisco, says this site is unusual in having a Web corrections page: "Most of the others run rumor stories and then substitute the correct stuff later," he says.


GameSpot has a staff of about 40 people and has built up an audience of millions in the past four years, according to Vince Broady, co-founder and general manager. Taking advantage of the unlimited space on the Web, the site has run a series of long articles by writer Geoff Keighley, who chronicles the making of games with a fly-on-the-wall journalistic style. For example, he covered how Valve LLP in Kirkland, Wash., managed to complete the game Half-Life, which was published more than a year late and $1 million over budget. The game became a smash hit. Another story was a profile of the making of Command & Conquer: Tiberian Sun, by Electronic Arts' Westwood Studios unit in Las Vegas. Brett Sperry, chief executive officer of Westwood, says, "It was risky, but we gave Geoff access, and he printed a story, warts and all."


Mr. Broady says: "Those stories are incredibly expensive to produce. But they set us apart, even from the magazines. To me, this is the evidence that game journalism is growing up" on the Web.


The competition for news is fierce. Next Generation magazine's top editor, Tom Russo, got a scoop last August with the first report that Microsoft Corp. planned to enter the video-game-console business with a machine dubbed the "X-Box." Microsoft followed up with an announcement in March that it would do so, though with specifications slightly different from what Imagine Media's Next Generation reported. The news was so hot, however, that the magazine couldn't wait to publish it. So it turned over the story to its Web site, which has since been renamed DailyRadar.com.


The annual Electronic Entertainment Expo, better known as E3, is where the game web sites shine in their blanket coverage. From morning to night, the Web-site journalists cover every event in detail, often posting live video from news conferences directly to their sites, and showing fans the latest "screen shots" of art from their favorite coming games.


Covering the event is no small task. This year, the show consisted of 450 companies showing off 2,400 games in an exhibit space spanning 550,000 square feet in the Los Angeles convention center. Many of the news media couldn't fit into a cavernous sound stage that Sony Corp. rented to launch its Play-Station 2 console for the North American market. Ign.com sent 45 staffers to the show, so that the team could update the site every 15 minutes and produce 150 to 250 photos and stories a day.


At E3, most of the journalists are young men with a wide variety of hair colors and attire. This year, 2,652 journalists attended the show. Of these, 1,259 were print journalists, 986 were from online outlets and 407 were from broadcast operations.


E3 is a proving ground of sorts, where the line is drawn between who qualifies as news media and who doesn't. Cristi Motto, a spokeswoman for the show's sponsor, the Interactive Digital Software Association, says the group tried hard to keep out media imposters—people who publish fan sites and others who just want to get free games.


"We found about 20 or so fans were trying to sneak past us," Ms. Motto says. "We'd call to verify a registration and get somebody's mother on the phone, or find that their place of business was a college dorm."


Many of the game Web sites have a wild-and-woolly definition of journalism. DailyRadar.com ran a series of articles dubbed "Booth Babe Jeopardy" during the E3 show. Reporters interviewed the pictured "babes" at various exhibitor booths. Daily Radar also posted interviews with former porn star Traci Lords, who was promoting an interactive title at the show.


All of this may be fun for the hard-core game players, but it doesn't do much to attract women and a broader market. For at least the near future, the gaming press may find that the audience for its publications is still a niche.


For example, Germany's Computec Media recently decided to shut down its Incite PC Gaming and Incite Video Gaming magazines due to weak advertising revenue after they failed to hit their original goal of more than 400,000 subscribers. Other magazines have closed their doors or sold out to bigger publishers.


"There's going to be more consolidation," says Chris Charla, editor-at-large at Next Generation magazine. "There is just too much noise in the channel."


Mr. Takahashi is a former Wall Street Journal reporter.










TWENTY-NINEShoot 'em OutBY SHARON CLEARYJuly 17, 2000On a recent bright Sunday at the beach, Brent Russell photographs himself and his friends during an ultimate Frisbee competition. Noted "for taking pictures—and handing them out," the 36-year-old social-service development director says he once had to foot the bill for passing out copies of his snapshots. But not anymore.Instead of using a film camera and relying on a local photo shop or service to process his prints, Mr. Russell now uploads images from his digital camera to Ofoto Inc.'s digital photo-finishing Web site.Ofoto.com gives Mr. Russell instant gratification—and saves him money: He can view the images in a matter of minutes at no charge and share them in a free online photo album. There is no schlepping the negatives back to the photo store to order copies for his friends. He can also order prints of the pictures he wants.Mr. Russell is the leading edge of a consumer wave that could challenge the market dominance of major film manufacturers and developers such Eastman Kodak Co., Rochester, N.Y.; and Japan's Fuji Photo Film Co.Ofoto.com, of Berkeley, Calif., Shutterfly.com Inc. of Redwood City, Calif., and roughly two dozen similar Internet start-ups are capitalizing on the growing digital-photography market that gives consumers more control over film processing.If you apply Moore's Law (which says the power of computer chips doubles roughly every 18 months) to the development of digital photography, then within three years, high-quality $150 digital cameras will let consumers take, store and "develop" their pictures for less than 20 cents apiece. This would seem to bode ill for the film manufacturers and developers.But Kodak and Fuji have their own Web sites and strategies, along with plans to deliver digital photos to television-set-top boxes and wireless devices. Additionally, both are leading manufacturers of digital cameras, which currently sell in the $250-$800 range. So, in effect, their own products are fueling the trend.Kodak and Fuji both say their recognized brand names and resources allow them to move quickly in new directions. "We won't be left behind," says Willy Shih, vice president of digital and applied imaging at Kodak. "I can promise you that."Online photofinishers began to emerge in late 1999 as digital cameras became more popular and consumers needed to print their electronic images. The alternative is to take your camera into a brick-and-mortar retailer to have the images extracted and printed or stored on a CD or floppy disk. Lia Schubert, an analyst for Boston research firm Infotrends Technology Group, estimates that the number of prints created from digital images—by online and offline photofinishers—will increase to 26 billion in 2005 from 3.3 billion in 1999. Sales of prints by online photofinishers will balloon to $2.52 billion in 2005 from $20 million last year, she predicts.Ofoto and Shutterfly are among the Internet companies poised to take advantage of this growth. These online businesses provide free Web-based software that lets users upload, view and edit their photographs free of charge and order professional prints, which then are sent by regular mail.The sites offer snapshot-size prints free when you sign up: 50 at Ofoto and 100 at Shutterfly. Both charge 49 cents thereafter for snapshots, 99 cents for 5-by-7 prints and $2.99 for 8-by-10 prints.Ofoto offers free processing for traditional 35mm film; users mail in the film, and can then preview images on Ofoto's site and pay only for prints of the shots they like. The company also has launched an online frame store for consumers. Through a partnership, Ofoto provides printing and framing services for Corbis Corp. of Seattle, the photo archive owned by Microsoft Corp. Chairman Bill Gates. Ofoto also prints images for Seattle-based Getty Images Inc.'s consumer-oriented art Web site Art.com. In June, Ofoto announced agreements with Intel Corp., Hewlett-Packard Co. and Sony Corp. to provide photographic printing and products for each company's photo-sharing Web site. Competitor Zing Inc. of San Francisco will create the infrastructure for Sony's site, called ImageStation.Ofoto's goal is "to be the shoe box of the sky"—the catch-all place for digital photographs, says James Joaquin, president and chief executive officer.In the spring, Shutterfly introduced a new suite of "photo enhancements" that enable users to personalize the appearance of their photographs. Users can now select specialized borders and add personal notes to the back of prints, among other features. Rivals are following its lead—Zing launched its own set of photo enhancements last month."Many of our customers are getting married or having their first child," says Jayne Spiegelman, Shutterfly's chief executive officer and co-founder. "It's the easiest way to distribute 35mm-quality wedding photos to 200 guests."In March, Yahoo! Inc. of Santa Clara, Calif., selected Shutterfly to provide digital-photo print services for its photo-storage site, Yahoo! Photos, because of Shutterfly's image quality and because "Shutterfly had the expertise to remain competitive," says Mark Hull, Yahoo senior producer. Also, at the time Yahoo was choosing a partner, industry leaders such as Kodak and Fuji "weren't committed to making straight digital pictures," Mr. Hull adds.Ironically, these new businesses are somewhat dependent on their established competitors. Ofoto and two other start-ups, Zing and PhotoAccess.com Corp. of Seattle, print their images on Kodak paper. So the newcomers might actually increase sales and revenue for the big film makers. "We consider Kodak more a partner than a competitor," Ofoto's Mr. Joaquin says.The traditional film companies have their own view of the competition. The start-ups' "biggest challenge today is acquiring customers," says Manny Almeida, general manager of digital imaging at Fuji Photo Film USA Inc. in Elmsford, N.Y. "Ours is developing technology because we already have the customer—we have the power within the market."Nonetheless, Mr. Almeida concedes, "we were a little bit late with our Web strategy."Fujifilm.Net has been up for four years, serving as a place for users to post and store their images, learn more about digital photography and make postcards from their images. The site plans to begin a service in the near future that develops regular 35mm film, and it won't start making prints from digital film until sometime in the third quarter. Currently, users must go through a participating retailer to have their images put online, then customers can order prints through the retailer.Mr. Almeida says Fuji has been focusing on other digital initiatives, including delivery of electronic images over wireless devices such as Palm Vx and cell phones, and producing a wireless-enabled digital camera that will transmit images to Fuji kiosks.The wireless-enabled cameras are still in the planning stages, but Fuji expects to begin installing the kiosks, called Aladdin Digital Picture Centers, in the third quarter. Fuji hopes to put Aladdins in electronics superstores; the kiosks, as well as countertop Aladdins for smaller retailers, will be able to print pictures from any digital camera, will download and upload prints from Fujifilm.Net and produce the pictures on CDs or floppy disks.Kodak, meanwhile, has struck agreements and made acquisitions in the past two years to strengthen its digital strategy.Kodak acquired the 49% of Herndon, Va., Picture-Vision Inc., it didn't already own. PictureVision makes an image-management system for online photo services and designs Web-user interfaces. It is the underlying system for Kodak's consumer Web presence, PhotoNet, and for America Online Inc.'s photo service, You've Got Pictures.The acquisition enables Kodak to integrate Picture-Vision's networks and services with its digital products. It also directly involves Kodak in You've Got Pictures: Consumers drop off their digital or regular film at a Kodak retailer, and the service uploads the images to AOL; users also can get traditional prints.Kodak also is working with Norcross, Ga., set-top-box maker Scientific-Atlanta Inc. to develop a system for displaying photographs on television screens without using a computer. Cable subscribers will be able to share photos with distant family by transmitting the pictures over the cable network to a secure Web server where computer users and cable subscribers can view them.Kodak's own online service, PhotoNet Online, offers features roughly comparable to those from most of its start-up rivals, but sometimes at a higher cost—for example, $8.95 for an 8-by-10 photo instead of $2.99. Kodak also charges a dollar to download high-resolution versions of images; on Ofoto.com and Shutterfly.com, this service is free.Kodak's Mr. Shih says the increasing accessibility of digital technology is driving a resurgence of interest in photography. This should ultimately work to Kodak's benefit, he believes, not only because most developers—online and traditional—use Kodak paper and equipment, but also because "we have many years of experience in photography and we're trying to leverage that knowledge."Ron Glaz, a program manager with Framingham, Mass., research group International Data Corp., agrees that digital cameras and photofinishing don't mean the death of 35mm cameras, but do give consumers far more choices.And Mr. Glaz notes that Kodak's and Fuji's experience, size and deep pockets give them a leg up over their competition. "Who's going to die first?" he asks, looking ahead to a category shakeout. "There's a better chance that Kodak will be around in five years than Ofoto."Ms. Cleary is a staff reporter with WSJ.com in San Francisco.
FAST DEVELOPING
How the total digital photofinishing market and the online segment are expected to look

Source: Infotrends Research Group Inc.











THIRTY

Lawyers vs. the Internet


BY RICHARD B. SCHMITT



July 17, 2000



David Palmer has a very active law practice. He has a law library with more than 800 volumes and a large and diverse client base, derived mostly from the Internet, where he advertises his services.









"There have to be hundreds of thousands, if not millions, of people who have legal questions, and they just don't know where to go," says Mr. Palmer, who lives near Toledo, Ohio. Through the miracle of new technology, he says, "I can give them options."


What Mr. Palmer doesn't have is a law degree or license. His formal legal training consists of a 12-week course in court reporting taken while he was in the Army more than 30 years ago.


Now, Ohio's lawyer-disciplinary counsel is investigating him and his site—amoralethics.com—to determine whether he is violating a state law that bans the practice of law without a license. The probe, which could lead to a court order forcing Mr. Palmer to fold his tent, may emerge as an early test case on the issue of legal services on the Internet.


Mr. Palmer says he is indeed fulfilling needs "that according to the rules on [the unlicensed practice of law] . . . would require one to go to a lawyer. I will readily admit that I am doing that. On the other hand, my argument is, I think their rules and laws are unconstitutional," a restraint of trade and of free speech, he says.


To the likes of Mr. Palmer, the Web is the perfect antidote for lawyers who charge too much or don't return phone calls. Over the past year or so, scores of Web sites have cropped up, making numerous virtual law offices available to consumers. Vast online law libraries, along with basic, fill-in-the-blank versions of wills, prenuptial agreements and other documents, are helping individuals tackle some legal problems on their own.


Most lawyers want the public to believe that "you need a brain surgeon for every legal problem," says Richard Granat, one of the new breed of cyber-lawyers. He operates several self-help Web sites from his home in Baltimore, including a U.S. version of an electronic divorce service that became a big hit in England last year. The Internet is demystifying the law, Mr. Granat argues, and lawyers may soon "lose their monopoly."


Actually, lawyers have long faced competition from nonlawyers. For years, legal secretaries and clerks have set up services that help consumers with do-it-yourself bankruptcies, wills and the like. Nolo Press, of Berkeley, Calif., began publishing self-help legal reference materials in the 1970s.


Bar groups and prosecutors have periodically hauled some of the nonlawyers to court.A Florida woman was cited for contempt of court in the early 1980s for operating an independent paralegal business; ultimately, she had to agree to suspend her business to avoid jail time. Since that time, lawyers have mostly accepted these nonlawyers, albeit grudgingly. But periodically, do-it-yourselfers still face opposition.


Two years ago, Nolo was investigated by Texas authorities who felt some of the company's legal-oriented software crossed the line; that probe ended only after the state's Legislature enacted a new law shielding do-it-yourself publishers from prosecution under the Texas unauthorized-practice-of-law statute.


Now, the pervasive and transcendent nature of the Internet is raising the stakes exponentially. Providers such as Nolo, now known as Nolo.com Inc., are turning to the Web themselves for its ability to widely disseminate legal services. Bar groups and lawyers of the old school are nervously rattling sabers, tightening ethical rules and warning of the dire effects of Internet amateurs who aren't trained as lawyers dispensing even the most general information about peoples' rights.


Some lawyers are tackling the new competition head-on, offering online advice and getting referrals through the Internet. And financial ties between the Web operators and lawyers are also coming under scrutiny. Nearly all states prohibit lawyers from operating law businesses or sharing legal fees with nonattorneys.


Arthur Miller, a professor at Harvard Law School in Cambridge, Mass., has a stake in AmeriCounsel.com Inc., a Web site where consumers can hook up with lawyers who offer basic legal services for a reduced fee. Especially for small firms and solo practitioners, the Web may be a more efficient marketing tool than, say, the Yellow Pages.


The site operators say they're being meticulous about ethics. AmeriCounsel, based in Needham, Mass., says it avoids the fee-splitting issue by charging consumers a service fee that is separate from money paid to the attorneys it recommends. Mr. Miller adds that the prohibition against nonlawyer investment doesn't apply, because the site doesn't directly provide legal advice. "There is an under-provision of legal services in this country," he says, adding that the Web offers "a new and accessible delivery system."


But most of the profession seems troubled by the high-velocity change. Here's a headline from a trade publication describing a recent American Bar Association conference on Internet start-ups: "Technology from Hell Challenges Lawyers, Scares ABA."


"There are a lot of folks who want to dot-com the legal profession," says Catherine Lanctot, a law professor at Villanova University in Villanova, Pa., who has studied online legal services. "And they're pushing the envelope in a lot of different directions."


A Palo Alto, Calif., company, for instance, is running a kind of eBay for legal services: LiveKnowledge.com Inc. operates online auctions where consumers post questions on their legal woes, and registered service providers—including both lawyers and non-lawyers, with no particular experience necessary—bid for the right to advise them.


In theory, such ideas make legal services more widely affordable. Many people can't afford a licensed attorney at $200 or $300 an hour, so they welcome the chance to buy a simple, do-it-yourself will for a fraction of that. Down the road, the online legal movement may also make a lot of money for Web entrepreneurs, who so far have spent an estimated $100 million developing legal sites.


"I am 100% confident that there is going to be a billion-dollar company [in market capitalization] in the Internet law space," says Neal Simon, chief executive of USLaw.com Inc., a Silver Spring, Md., outfit.


Mr. Simon's firm features an online "Ask-a-Lawyer" service. Visitors are greeted by a team of lawyers—many hired from a temp agency—who respond to e-mailed queries with general information on everything from getting an immigration green card to the implications of signing noncompetition agreements.


Mary Blackstock, a recent virtual visitor, says she logged on after getting in a dispute with her partner in a Web-design business. The partner wanted out of the venture and wanted Ms. Blackstock to give her back her entire investment. USLaw.com sent Ms. Blackstock, who lives in New York, a primer on how to dissolve a small business. Ultimately, she says she ended up saving several hundred dollars in buying out her partner, though she did hire a lawyer to help with some of the paperwork. "I definitely felt empowered," she adds.


Sounds breathtakingly simple. But while the advice is free right now, it remains to be seen whether customers will come once the company starts charging for its service—possibly as soon as next year.


Down the street from USLaw.com, Silver Spring attorney Jules Fink, 71 years old, has mixed feelings about these developments. The solo practitioner says he is asked regularly to untangle trust or estate matters that have been bungled by untrained laypeople attempting to handle things without an attorney.


"People contend they can't afford to hire a lawyer," he says. "My question is, can you afford not to?


"I feel like I am in the nineteenth century," says Mr. Fink. He relies principally on word-of-mouth for business, along with a reputation for in-person conferences, deliberate service and reasonable, if not cut-rate, fees. He says he has all the work he can handle.


As for Mr. Palmer, 56, the Toledo practitioner, his Web presence was born of frustration with lawyers. He started the site last year after his wife was seriously injured in an auto accident. Legal fees, he says, ate up a large share of her settlement. Many people who are drawn to his site also have had problems with lawyers. For them, he offers information on how to file a complaint against a judge and a "Top 10" list of lawyers with disciplinary records.


He also invites visitors—roughly 22,000 to date—to contact him for "free legal advice." Candid about his own lack of training, Mr. Palmer nonetheless advertises that he feels competent in most areas of the law, including contracts, personal injury and attorney malpractice. He doesn't appear in court, but he regularly e-mails tips on how to prepare legal arguments and court filings.


So far, demand for his services has been strong. He figures he gets a dozen or more requests for help every day. In recent months, he has counseled one client on filing a court appeal over a divorce decree and another caught in a fee dispute with a lawyer whose license turned out to be suspended. He considers it all a public service and doesn't charge a fee, although he says he may in the future to cover his costs. A military pension helps pay the bills.


Some authorities fear that Mr. Palmer's operation is an accident waiting to happen. They say the Internet is a risky way to get legal advice, partly because the law in the state of the provider may be much different than that of the recipient's state. Adding lay advisers to the equation makes the exercise even more perilous.


Jonathan Coughlan, Ohio's lawyer-disciplinary counsel, who is overseeing the investigation of Mr. Palmer, says consumers who look to unlicensed Internet advisers are "risking getting bad information." The investigation, which began after an attorney in another state complained about Mr. Palmer's site, is in its early stages.


But Mr. Palmer welcomes the chance to make his case. Far from endangering consumers, he says, the Internet is giving them the tools to understand the law, make informed decisions and even save money.


Lawyers are understandably upset, Mr. Palmer adds, because in their eyes, "there goes the gravy train."


Mr. Schmitt is a staff reporter in The Wall Street Journal's Washington, D.C., bureau.













THIRTY-ONE

Photo Opportunity


BY DAVID GAUTHIER-VILLARS



July 17, 2000



As it has for more than 150 years, the act of taking a photograph still ends with pressing a button. But digital technology and the Internet are completely recasting what happens after that.









The photo industry is already well into its first Internet revolution, affecting how photographs flow from a camera to the pages of a newspaper, magazine or annual report. Now it's at the dawn of the second, which is transforming the business of the photo agency.


By enabling agencies' photo collections to be accessed so much more quickly, cheaply and safely than in the past—no more couriers, no more fears that the photos will be damaged or lost—the new technology changes everything, says Jonathan Klein, chief executive officer of Seattle-based Getty Images Inc., which he co-founded in 1995.


"If a photo agency doesn't migrate to the Internet, it's in Siberia," Mr. Klein says. To highlight the break with tradition, Getty Images has dropped the photo-agency label and describes itself as an "e-commerce provider of imagery."


Among other things, the technology opens up new markets for the rich collections in the archives. With distribution costs so much reduced, agencies may be able to go beyond their usual clients—such as advertising agencies, media companies and corporations—and sell images to ordinary individuals.


But there is a hurdle to be cleared first: Before it can take advantage of the lower costs, an agency has to swallow the large cost of digitizing its archives. Getty's Mr. Klein puts that cost as high as $45 an image. Steve Davis, chairman and chief executive officer of archrival Corbis Corp., says that when all the costs involved in high-resolution digitizing—editing, scanning, color correcting and storing—are included, the price can climb beyond $50.


The need to cover that cost, multiplied by the hundreds of thousands of images likely to be in demand, is pushing many independent photo agencies into the arms of larger corporations that have mastered Internet technology and have the needed financial firepower. With their willingness to pay top dollar to purchase leading photo collections, Getty Images and Corbis, created in 1989 and owned by Microsoft Corp. Chairman Bill Gates, have set up the two powerhouses of the industry.


"Before, it was a low-margin business," says Mr. Davis. "Now, it's an Internet- and software-driven growth industry."


Goksin Sipahioglu, who co-founded French news photo agency Sipa Press in 1969, says the two Seattle-based U.S. companies saved the industry by applying more professional management methods and changing how investors viewed the value of the collections. "If Bill Gates and Getty hadn't been around, all the photo agencies would be bankrupt," says Mr. Sipahioglu, a legend among photographers since he made his way into Cuba with a camera during the missile crisis of 1962. "By understanding the importance of photography at an early stage, they gave value to our companies."


Getty Images now has an archive of 70 million stills, including over a million stored digitally; its latest big acquisition was Image Bank, Eastman Kodak Co.'s stock film and photography outfit, which it bought for $183 million late last year.


Corbis has a collection of 65 million photographs, including 2.1 million in digital form; its latest big buy was the French news photo agency Sygma, which it purchased in June 1999.


Sipa Press was also in Corbis's sights, Mr. Sipahioglu says, but despite the financial burden of turning his business digital, he chose to remain independent. He adds, though, that Sipa may sell a minority stake to French publishing house Hachette Filipacchi Medias, a division of defense-to-media conglomerate Lagardere SCA.


Although it hasn't outlined its exact ambitions in the photo industry, HFM has begun emerging as the third player, behind Getty Images and Corbis, since its purchase last November of French news photo agency Gamma. Adding this collection to the archives of its publications—including Paris Match, Premiere and Elle—gives HFM an archive of 30 million to 35 million pictures. Of those, 100,000 have been digitized, and HFM plans to convert a further one million to two million.


Christian Leveneur, photo division director of HFM, says he is confident the cost of digitizing the photos can be lowered. "We expect the average price of digitizing to come in at far below $10 per picture because our collections, most of which are managed by publications, have been indexed extremely carefully."


Whatever the real cost of digitizing turns out to be, photo agencies insist it will be much less than the recurring costs of duplicating slides and shipping them to customers. Now that high-resolution pictures can be sent easily through the Internet, image users increasingly turn to photo agencies' e-commerce Web sites for selecting and purchasing pictures.


"In 1998, digital sales accounted for between 20% and 25% of our core business revenues," says Corbis's Mr. Davis. "In the first quarter of 2000, it was around 80%." And for now, agencies say, they bill their ad-agency, media and corporate clients almost the same price for doing digital business with them as they do when they're shipping slides—without bearing the related costs.


One question that remains is whether the ease and simplicity will lead to the development of a consumer market. Some in the business are skeptical. "The challenge with selling or licensing images to consumers on the Internet is that they have been given the ability to get pictures for free," says Getty's Mr. Klein.


Getty Images has no immediate plan to expand its offerings to consumers beyond its Art.com unit, which sells framed and unframed art and photography. In 1999, this unit generated revenue of $5 million, or slightly more than 1% of the group's pro forma revenues of around $400 million, Mr. Klein says.


In France, HFM executives are even more skeptical. "So far, in the consumer market, revenue stems mostly from extra services such as frames or delivery whereas the picture—often a whale tail or a sunset—plays a minor role," says Lionel Fleury, HFM director in charge of digitizing.


At Corbis, by contrast, Mr. Davis is enthusiastic at the prospect about "putting creativity in the hands of end users." The business-to-consumer market is a "real and profitable marketplace where the picture isn't an ancillary byproduct," he says.


Corbis has 650,000 pictures online at corbis.com that consumers can download at prices starting at $3 apiece for uses ranging from illustrating a school report to sending e-postcards. The company recently launched a new Web site, called Corbis BizPresenter, aimed at small-business and home-office customers.


Sales of the Corbis consumer division accounted for around 10% of the group's revenue last year, which was "significantly over $100 million," Mr. Davis says. Expressing confidence that retail users will be ready to pay for access to quality pictures, he projects that within three to four years the combined sales of the consumer and BizPresenter divisions will match those of the professional division.


Mr. Gauthier-Villars is a reporter for Dow Jones Newswires in Paris.













THIRTY-TWO

Banking On Change


BY DEVON SPURGEON



July 17, 2000



Alexander Kemper has always been obsessed with bigness.


As a scrawny junior-high-school student, Mr. Kemper lived "in terror" of bigger bullies. So, he started pumping iron, bulked up, and by the time he got to Northwestern University, he made the football team.









He made the same kind of determined climb in the professional world: At age 30, he became chief executive of United Missouri Bank, which his family has run here for 87 years. What's more, he made it to the top spot at the bank—the largest in Kansas City—despite having an older brother at the company.


But, four years later, Mr. Kemper decided to get scrawny again. He left his post at United Missouri to run an Internet start-up. Now he shares an office with his secretary, wears khaki pants instead of the perfectly tailored suits he was known for, and oversees 120 employees instead of 4,000.


Why leave the top spot at a big, well-respected company—a job that Mr. Kemper says he aspired to since age six? "I was not really building anything," he says. Instead, he was steering a company that had been going strong for two generations before he got there. At his Internet business, he says, he has the chance to build his own company—and legacy—from the ground up.


Mr. Kemper's story shows that the motivation to move from "mortar" to "click" is rarely as clear-cut as it looks. Sure, many executives who jump ship relish the chance to get in on the ground floor of a blockbuster enterprise, and get rich in the process. But sometimes the reasons run a lot deeper than dollars and cents. The job of building a company can move beyond a financial opportunity—it can be a personal challenge.


For Mr. Kemper, the challenge was carving out a name for himself in a city where his family's name is well known. Kempers have run the bank—and its holding company, UMB Corp.—for three generations now. At least two important institutions in Kansas City—Kemper Arena and the Kemper Museum of Contemporary Art—owe their existence to donations from Mr. Kemper's adoptive father, Crosby Kemper Jr.


And the bank has been as much of a city institution as the family. For decades, UMB and rival Commerce Bank, the largest in the city, had dominated the market, expanding their reach through the purchase of small banks in nearby towns. UMB has grown to 165 branches, from St. Louis to Denver, with $8.1 billion in assets.


Still, when Mr. Kemper took the reins of the bank in 1996, it had begun to face serious competition—a situation that ultimately inspired his Internet venture.


In the mid-'90s, national banks went on an acquisition spree, buying smaller lenders across the country and expanding into many new markets. Kansas City's banking scene suddenly had a new player—BankAmerica, now Bank of America Corp. of Charlotte, N.C. It doesn't have as many local branches as UMB. But it offers formidable competition nonetheless.


Because of its national reach, Bank of America can offer branches around the country better access to capital markets and a wider array of cash-management and Treasury services. It can also borrow money and buy supplies less expensively than smaller banks because of its massive asset base—currently $656 billion.


Many small, local banks didn't want to go up against that kind of colossus, and sold out. That idea held no appeal for Mr. Kemper, especially given his belief that local bankers' leadership is vital to small communities. "Hell, no," he says. "We have never as a family thought about how much we can get for [the bank]."


In fact, taking on Bank of America brought to mind a favorite tactic from his football days. "Nothing makes me happier than finding the big guy on the field causing trouble for my teammates and tearing his head off," he says.


Mr. Kemper says the bank fought Bank of America with customer service, to keep its customers from defecting. But he also came up with an idea to attack Bank of America's business in another way—a plan that would help his bank, and smaller ones, thrive in an age of consolidation. It hinged on the Internet.


His idea: a buying and selling cooperative. Small bankers, and their clients, could form purchasing groups via the Internet and get bulk discounts on supplies—thereby erasing some of their big competitors' advantage. Customers pay a percentage of their savings, usually 2% to 5%, back to the company.


Also on the site are 200 small businesses selling everything from die casts to office flooring. The site charges the sellers a one-time listing fee of $3 per product and then a transaction fee if the item sells.


The idea wasn't new. For decades, small players in various industries had been forming cooperatives in order to win the same economies of scale as big players. Indeed, one of Kansas City's biggest corporations is Farmland Industries Inc., a cooperative of thousands of farmers.


But, even if it wasn't original, the idea caught on. In March 1999, Mr. Kemper launched eScout.com as a division of UMB. Loan officers and others at UMB pitched the service to the bank's small-business customers, as well as to its large network of Midwestern community banks that clear checks through UMB. Within a year, more than 6,000 members signed up to buy and sell computers and office supplies online.


Ann Phillips, who runs a mobile-telephone business in Kansas City, says her company has saved almost $60,000 with eScout. "The service saved us a lot of money and time on our computer system," she says.


But, as eScout grew, Mr. Kemper felt growing pressure. He still held his job at the bank, but he realized his new venture was "where my heart is." One day, he says, he noticed that he was checking the number of hits and sales on the Web site more often than he checked his stocks. It was a thrill knowing immediately how the site was doing, he says, rather than having to wait till the end of the month for numbers to be compiled.


At the same time, he found that splitting his schedule meant not being fair to either job. Among other pressures, he had to cram in many trips to talk to potential investors about eScout. And "when you are on an airplane, you can't be there for your guys," he says.


His personal life was beginning to show the strain, as well. When his daughter was born last year, he cut short his hospital visit to get back to the office.


"UMB is growing and so is eScout, and Sandy's being torn," says Mr. Kemper, speaking of himself in the third person. "It is not possible to run two companies."


In March, a year after the site was launched, he finally made his choice. The final prompt came from a group of venture capitalists who invested $25 million in eScout. UMB Corp. retained a majority stake, but the new investors insisted that eScout have a fulltime CEO.


Mr. Kemper obliged. He gave up his bank job and moved into the eScout offices, a block away from UMB headquarters. The bank CEO spot went to his brother, Crosby.


So far, Mr. Kemper doesn't mind the cramped quarters or the more casual atmosphere. He likes the fact that the business moves faster and isn't as bureaucratic as the bank. UMB might study alliances for months, Mr. Kemper says; at eScout, he can make such decisions instantly.


But the reduction in red tape doesn't mean a lighter workload. At eScout, everyone works on Saturdays and most on Sundays. Mr. Kemper says he could never have asked employees at the bank—many of whom work there because of the stable, eight-hour day—to come in on weekends.


He doesn't like the extended hours, but says they're necessary to build the business. "This is a time when I am not spending as much time with my family; the balance is tilted in favor of eScout," says Mr. Kemper, whose wife is expecting another child in December.


Still, the hard work is paying off. The site isn't profitable yet, but Mr. Kemper says it is adding 100 clients a week. And its success has earned Mr. Kemper more attention than he ever received as chief executive of the bank. Who would have expected a Kansas City bank unknown outside the Midwest to launch one of the largest—Mr. Kemper says the largest—online small-business marketplaces? In fact, the start-up's success recently won Mr. Kemper a profile in the American Banker newspaper.


But the competition isn't sitting still. In May, Bank of America launched an online cooperative similar to eScout. Nationwide, the bank serves 1.7 million small-business customers—which is greater than the population of Kansas City.


That UMB reached this market first is of little concern to Bank of America officials. They say the relevant issue is size. "UMB is a fairly limited institution when you compare it to ours," says Brian Foster, executive vice president for small businesses at Bank of America.


Mr. Kemper says he isn't worried, and argues that Bank of America's size will hurt it in this market. "No matter how much they talk about technology, no matter how much money they spend, [big banks] have turned their backs on the small businesses," he says.


At a recent staff meeting, Mr. Kemper addresses a group of employees who mostly moved over from UMB. He speaks about the fight to save small business; without the eScout advantage, he says, small businesses will disappear.


Then Mr. Kemper, an avid reader of history books, brings up one of his favorite tales: A group of warriors reached a land they wanted to conquer—and burned their ships to prevent a retreat.


The implication seems clear—there is no going back to the big ship, UMB. But when asked whether that is, indeed, what he meant, Mr. Kemper turns philosophical.


"I focus on the present, and my belief is that what we do at eScout is the future," he says. "Whether I go back [to UMB] is not a question that is mine to answer."


Ms. Spurgeon is a staff reporter in The Wall Street Journal's Chicago bureau.













THIRTY-THREE

Hair Today, Hair Tomorrow


BY DEBORAH SOLOMON



July 17, 2000



In the age of cyberbusiness, some will tell you, there's only one clear rule: Get online or get out of business.









But not every business is rushing headlong to become an online giant. Take the folks down at Lepine, a smart little concern on Manhattan's Madison Avenue. Though Lepine has a Web site and sells a few products online, most of its business is of the walk-in sort. Lepine has little fear of being swamped by cybercompetitors: Most of what it sells you can't get online.


That's because Lepine is a beauty salon—and a booming one at that. On a typical day, men and women pour into the shop for expensive haircuts, facials and other pampering. If anything, the Web is a boon, bringing in dot-com professionals who can pay for such indulgences thanks to the options profits, signing bonuses and seven-figure salaries typical of the online industry.


Lepine is a reminder that lots of businesses are unlikely ever to be rendered obsolete—or even significantly threatened—by a Web-based competitor. From manicurists to plumbers to fancy restaurants, some services will always be hard, if not impossible, to replicate on the Net. Indeed, for lots of businesses—particularly small, locally centered service concerns—the old offline world is still a pretty profitable place.


"People still need other people to do their hair," says Kim Lepine, owner of the shop. "We cannot be replaced—yet."


Physical therapists, building contractors and pet groomers are just a handful of the businesses that are arguably far less vulnerable to Web pressures than, say, an auto dealer or software firm.


"Services are pretty hard to replace," says Gary Arlen, president of Arlen Communications Inc., a Bethesda, Md. multimedia research firm. You can't get your roof repaired over the Net or get a pedicure from a computer, he notes. The whole value of many businesses lies in the human contact or the real—as opposed to virtual—experience they offer. "People still want a social experience," says Mr. Arlen. "They want to go to a tavern or eat in a nice restaurant."


True, the Web is bound to touch most businesses. And while a salon or restaurant doesn't necessarily risk extinction by ignoring cyberspace, most will feel compelled to embrace it in some way, says Paul Saffo, a director of the Institute for the Future in Menlo Park, Calif. Masseuses, four-star restaurants and personal trainers will need to advertise on the Web, cut costs by ordering products over it and, eventually, make appointments online and other services to stay competitive, Mr. Saffo says.


"The Web is the next way to communicate with the customer," he says. Successful businesses will update customers through e-mail, he says, alerting a client by wireless device that his doctor is running late or his yoga instructor has canceled.


Some small businesses already use the Net in ingenious ways. Pete Durst, owner of the Wagging Tail pet-grooming salon in Manhattan, lets customers keep tabs on their pets via video cameras in his "doggie day-care" center. Customers can watch Rex romp or see him being clipped on a Web site operated by the salon.


For Mr. Durst, the Net is tool rather than a threat, and his brick-and-mortar operation profits from technology that many once thought would doom small, traditional businesses. "It's kind of hard to have your dog groomed over the Net," he says.


While dozens of similar pet Web sites have cropped up, they haven't put a dent in Mr. Durst's business. If anything, the Web has helped, if only because many of his clients—like those at Lepine—are dot-com wealthy who can afford his services more frequently now than before. "We're seeing dogs being groomed every two weeks instead of every eight weeks," he says. At $65 a pop for the smallest dog in the best condition, that's no small penny.


And, lest we forget, we're all bound to need some offline services, whether or not we're dot-com millionaires. Funeral services, for instance.


Or people like David Williams—a Boston plumber. The Web "really doesn't impact us at all," he says. "I don't think we face any real risk."


Ms. Solomon is a staff reporter in The Wall Street Journal's New York bureau.













THIRTY-FOUR

Easy Doesn't Do It


BY MARCELO PRINCE



July 17, 2000



The whirring air conditioner isn't cooling the cramped office of Silicon Alley Venture Partners LLC where Michael Saunders is trying to sell himself.









The 23-year-old's forehead gleams with sweat from the 90-degree heat he has just escaped. Mr. Saunders, in pressed button-down shirt and slacks, squirms on a folding chair as his interrogators pore over his business plan for campusfood.com Inc.


He started the fledgling Internet site three years ago, as a junior at the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia. After building the business on a shoestring budget, tenacity and some help from friends, Mr. Saunders is trying to raise $6 million to take his concept nationwide.


His short-sleeved inquisitors slouch in leather-backed armchairs. SAVP principal David Montoya, 34, rests his sneakers on the wall while Steve Brotman, 31, managing director, tosses a mini-basketball in the air. The two, as relaxed as two men with $16 million to dole out can be, take turns firing questions, often cutting the replies short with their next query.


Mr. Saunders's remarks echo the presentation he delivered for the first time a week earlier, to several hundred investors and bankers at a New York venture-capital conference. As the grilling here progresses, Mr. Saunders's quick, confident responses seem to be winning over his skeptical inquisitors.


"I'll tell you what I like," says Mr. Brotman as the 40-minute session ends. "You've got a phenomenal cost of [customer] acquisition. You're pretty efficient with your expansion plans."


But, he adds, "there are at least 30 food-related pitches in here," pointing to three boxes labeled "March New/Unreviewed" and filled with hundreds of dot-com business plans.


"I'm more concerned about how big your vision is," Mr. Brotman adds. "How expansive can this thing get? How can you get to be a billion-dollar company?"


Those are the questions that Mr. Saunders and most entrepreneurs must grapple with as they struggle to transform Web dreams into serious businesses. The common perception is that anybody with a computer and a good idea can build an Internet company. And in some ways it is definitely easier and cheaper to get started in cyberspace than in a brick-and-mortar business.


But it isn't as cheap, nor as easy, as many people believe. The technological hurdles are high, talent is scarce, most good domain names have been taken, and capital isn't as easy to come by as before Internet stocks swooned.


Mr. Brotman, who started and sold AdOne, an Internet classified-ad site, while a student at Columbia University business school, says later that he is impressed with Mr. Saunders and would consider giving him a small investment. "I really liked the guy," he says. "I would cut him a check for a quarter-million."


Mr. Montoya, taken with Mr. Saunders's drive, predicts, "He's going to get funded [by some venture investors] if everything checks out."


But several weeks and many presentations later, the venture capital has yet to materialize. "Everything is still up in the air," Mr. Saunders says.


An economics major at Penn, Mr. Saunders came up with the idea for campusfood.com in 1997. Frustrated by frequent busy signals at his favorite takeout joint, Lees Hoagie House, he decided to create a Web site where students could place takeout orders with local restaurants over the Net.


He established campusfood.com as an intermediary between impatient, Internet-wired youth and parochial mom-and-pops. "For the restaurants, we are a back-end order facilitator; for the students, we offer a convenient service and discounts," Mr. Saunders says. On the Web site, a student can select from a restaurant's menu and submit an order electronically.


Campusfood.com doesn't deliver orders, unlike its giant rival, food.com Inc. in San Francisco. "We didn't even entertain the idea," says Mr. Saunders—it is too costly and complicated. Instead, campusfood.com simply faxes the orders to the restaurant, which fills and delivers them.


Some Web entrepreneurs have had to fork over three- to six-digit sums of money to buy catchy domain names previously claimed by cyber-squatters. Not Mr. Saunders. He was early, and lucky, enough to register campusfood.com for just $35 a year.


A computer hobbyist, Mr. Saunders spent a "solid two months" writing, with the help of a how-to book, the software code for his Web site. He recruited a few classmates to help with the programming, and launched the campusfood.com site at the start of 1998, offering menu information (it didn't start taking orders until fall 1998).


"It was just a bunch of guys doing a project," Mr. Saunders says of campusfood.com's maiden year. "It was making the jump from 'project' to 'company' when I realized there were a lot of intimate details that had to be worked out."


Chief among them was finding someone to bankroll the venture, a seed or "angel" investor. "If you've started three companies and all have gone public, finding money is easy," Mr. Saunders says. But not the first time.


Mr. Saunders's father is a marketing director at Avon Products Inc., in New York, and his mother is a second-grade schoolteacher. No deep pockets there. He turned instead to a former employer, Navin Sharma, a database marketing consultant who works out of his home in Tivoli, N.Y.


Mr. Saunders previously had worked as a summer intern for Mr. Sharma. After the energetic young entrepreneur demonstrated how his idea worked, Mr. Sharma agreed to provide seed capital. "In the first two years, we were both novices really," says Mr. Sharma, 51, who is now a director of campusfood.com. "We learned a lot, many times, through our mistakes."


For starters, the founders thought that campusfood.com would be acquired or go public quickly. So they incorporated too soon and spent heavily on lawyers to help set up the company instead of on core development work during the first year. "We thought the idea would catch like wildfire, somebody would fund us and we'd go public in six months," Mr. Sharma says.


Instead, they would have to prove their business plan could work—and do it on scant resources. Mr. Saunders, by now a college senior, forgot his thoughts of becoming a financial analyst and became campusfood.com's first full-time employee—at no salary.


Lev Steshenko, a former lab partner in a freshman computer-science class, soon agreed to become the second unpaid employee, as campusfood.com's chief information officer. "It sounded like fun," says the soft-spoken Mr. Steshenko, a 23-year-old computer whiz who grew up in the Bronx, N.Y.


Mr. Saunders was still hoping to attract investors quickly by adding more campuses and features to the site. But he and Mr. Steshenko quickly realized the software running the site couldn't handle the ambitious goals.


"What we were doing at Penn wasn't feasible on a national level," says Mr. Saunders.


So they turned to Bit by Bit Inc., a computer consulting firm in New York that had been hired to help build the pilot site. The firm had the communications expertise and infrastructure, such as servers and office space, that campusfood.com lacked.


Bruce Steinfeld, president of Bit by Bit, liked the campusfood.com concept and its tenacious creator. So he agreed to "incubate" the company in exchange for a minority stake in campusfood.com. Messrs. Saunders and Steshenko got a corner in Bit by Bit's office—a fifth-floor loft in a building littered with new-media firms—and access to Bit by Bit's hardware.


Six days after Penn's commencement exercises in 1998, Messrs. Saunders and Steshenko were in business, using second-hand furniture, home computers and a telephone from the basement of the Staten Island, N.Y., home of Mr. Saunders's parents. Two months later, in July 1998, they ran out of cash. "I had agreed to provide the seed capital until we could find bigger players," Mr. Sharma explains. "I'm not a millionaire, I couldn't do it anymore."


Messrs. Saunders and Steshenko redoubled their efforts, working on the site's technology, freelancing as computer programmers and living with their parents while they searched for venture capitalists. They kept running into "finders," brokers who wanted a percentage of the capital raised in exchange for matching campusfood.com up with wealthy investors.


By September 1998, campusfood.com had registered 16% of Penn's 9,000 undergraduates—at a total cost to the company of just $1,500. But Mr. Sharma kept coming up empty when he tried to persuade some well-heeled, tech-savvy friends to invest. "We were puzzled that we couldn't sell the idea," he says. "People wanted a convincing revenue model, [and] this exposed our lack of experience in coming up with convincing business plans."


"From July until January [1999] it was tough," Mr. Steshenko says. Finally, their families and a stockbroker friend agreed to lend them enough money to spend most of the summer of 1999 in a rented car hitting campuses all along the Eastern seaboard from Washington, D.C., to Boston. Their goal: to add 20 colleges to the Web site by the start of classes in fall.


They cased the campuses to determine which restaurants to enroll and tried—with varying degrees of success—to hire students to blanket the campuses with promotional matchbooks and posters. As fall classes started, they were still on just 16 campuses.


"It was harder than they thought it was," says Richard Rofe, president of WOW Wings in Great Neck, N.Y., which sells chicken wings. "They were very, very wide-eyed and right out of school," he adds. "They were scrounging around for whatever they could. They were strapped and wondering what was happening day to day."


Mr. Rofe, now a director of campusfood.com, was recruited by Bit by Bit's Mr. Steinfeld to advise on revamping campusfood.com's revenue model. The founders had planned to generate revenue primarily from advertisements on their Web site, a practice that has fallen out of favor with investors. Mr. Rofe persuaded Mr. Saunders to switch to a transaction-based business. "It took a while to convince them," says Mr. Rofe. "But we turned it around long before people were pooh-poohing" revenue from ad-based sites.


The new business plan calls for campusfood.com to get 5% of every order placed through its site, and that has created new headaches. Mr. Saunders hasn't been able to collect all that restaurants owe campusfood.com. In some cases, where he fears he won't be able to collect, he is in effect giving away the sales commission to build the business by having restaurants give customers a 5% discount on orders.


"We're working [with partners] on an electronic bill-payment system, and in September the company will begin to collect revenue in full,"says Mr. Saunders.


Another aspect of the site will be online debit accounts, now being developed, that will operate much like an off-campus meal plan. Campusfood.com plans to sell the debit accounts—for use solely to order vittles on campusfood.com—to students and parents at registration each semester. Messrs. Saunders and Steshenko are talking with potential partners about creating campusfood.com debit cards linked to the online accounts that students also could use to pay at restaurants.


The company's cash crunch continued as they met with more than a dozen potential investors without success. Then last November they paid a finder 10% to connect them with a handful of wealthy individuals for a round of "angel" funding. That allowed campusfood.com to pay its two founding employees modest salaries and hire six more workers.


"One big challenge was how to structure the investments that came into the company so we were still in control and were not giving everything away for free," says Mr. Rofe. Those funds plus some more recent investments are sufficient to cover campusfood.com's costs and growth until it secures venture capital sometime between now and October, Mr. Saunders says.


"The best time to look for money is when you don't need it," he says. The $6 million campusfood.com is seeking now would fund its national expansion and help it get to profitability, he says, though he won't say by when.


Mr. Saunders plans to add more than 300 campuses around the country to the site by September. Rather than try to hire a sales force in a tight job market, he has retained a marketing company, with 300 foot soldiers, to sign up the restaurants. The marketing firm will distribute pens with the slogan "Finger Clickin' Good" and T-shirts proclaiming "Get In My Belly" in quads and commons this fall.


Campusfood.com has been using Bit by Bit's server computers and high-speed Internet connection for more than a year. But the company has dipped deeply into its cash reserves to set up its own proprietary network, which it will switch to soon. Like many Web outfits, campusfood.com will rent space for its three servers in a large data center, a climate-controlled locker room full of caged computers, near Manhattan's meat-packing district, operated by Level 3 Communications Inc., Broomfield, Colo.


Mr. Saunders envisions partnering with college-cafeteria operators, student organizations and financial-services firms to drive campusfood.com's growth. "It has worked out well, but I would like it if they were a little further along," says Mr. Steinfeld at Bit by Bit. "When it's in 300 schools, I'll be a lot more comfortable."


Many observers give Mr. Saunders credit for building the company into a promising business on an investment of still well under $1 million. "I applaud them for building something on a shoestring budget," says Angela Gyetvan, vice president of marketing at food.com, which has raised $120 million to become a portal for everything food related. "But the universe, 15 million college kids, is pretty small.


"We've kept our eye on them for quite a while," she adds, in part with the help of another Penn student who is the daughter of food.com's chief financial officer. Asked whether food.com, which started targeting the college market a year ago and now offers food-delivery service at 120 universities, would be interested in acquiring campusfood.com, Ms. Gyuetvan says only that her firm is an "interested third party."


Many think that if Mr. Saunders can execute on his planned expansion, campusfood.com could indeed become a tasty acquisition target. "Anyone who wants to attract college kids will want to have this as a subsidiary," says Mr. Rofe.


Mr. Saunders, who remains the majority owner, admits there is a price at which he would hand over the reins, but he isn't looking to sell—yet. "At some point we become an acquisition target, or the reverse happens and we start acquiring [smaller players] or go public," he says. "I see any of those three as good."


For now, Messrs. Saunders and Steshenko continue to toil on campusfood.com and are already hard at work on the pilot for their next project: a Web site where office workers could order food. It is dubbed workfood.com.


Mr. Prince is a reporter for Dow Jones Newswires in New York.













THIRTY-FIVE

Returns to Sender


BY REBECCA QUICK



July 17, 2000



This spring, Selena Leong thought she had found the perfect pair of white summer pants on the Internet. Alas, when they arrived, Ms. Leong, a 24-year-old college student from Queens, N.Y., discovered they didn't fit. She quickly mailed them back to the Web retailer. But her account wasn't credited for six weeks, during which, she complains, "I had major bills to pay."









And so Ms. Leong, who has spent about $2,000 shopping online in the past year, now prefers to shop at Web retailers that also have stores near her, such as Gap Inc.'s Gap and Banana Republic outlets. That way, she says, when an Internet purchase doesn't work out, "you just go to the store and get your money back right away. It's a major advantage."


In fact, deft handling of returned merchandise is turning into a huge advantage for clicks-and-mortar retailers in their battle against Internet-only retailers, of which there are hundreds. The retailers that operate solely on the Web are widely seen as more nimble, and it is true that start-ups tend to make decisions faster than their Old Economy competitors. Moreover, their overhead costs can be considerably lower.


But the virtual retailers also have one glaring weakness: Without a network of stores, and lacking the service orientation of established catalog merchants, many have been left with no convenient way to satisfy customers when something goes wrong with an order, a fairly frequent event in e-commerce. For many shoppers, it's a lot easier to drop something off at a nearby store than to find a box, wrap it up and haul it off somewhere for shipment.


Of course, some of the kings of e-commerce such as Amazon.com Inc. have found ways to streamline the return process. But plenty of Web retailers still haven't gotten their acts together. Besides, some of the earliest products sold on the Web, such as CDs and books, were easier to handle than the later arrivals, such as bicycles and living-room furniture.


Returns are no small matter in the retailing business. About 8% of all online merchandise purchases were returned in the first quarter this year, according to a survey by Shop.org and Boston Consulting Group. That figure is slightly higher than the 5% to 6% estimated returns for catalog purchases overall. And some of the fastest-growing categories on the Internet saw much higher return rates. In apparel, for instance, returns ran north of 20% of all items ordered at some sites.


The nation's catalog retailers for years have managed to handle returns without a fuss. But many online retailers with skimpy experience in the real world were unprepared for the onslaught of returns that came with sharply rising sales. And many were understaffed, especially at holiday times—unlike old-line retailers that plan far in advance to hire seasonal troops. Perhaps more significantly, many Web shoppers are younger, less-patient buyers who aren't typical catalog shoppers and aren't used to waiting six weeks for a credit for returned goods to show up on their charge cards. That's where a company with physical stores can seize the advantage—especially if it manages to knit together all of its selling channels to make returns seem easy.


Some retailers are already doing this. Retailers from Williams-Sonoma Inc. to J. Crew Group Inc. and Macy's, a unit of Federated Department Stores Inc., have begun integrating their online and offline operations, accepting returns from their Web shops in their real-world stores.


It's not a simple task. The two operations may have different computer systems, different management teams and sometimes even different merchandise. Besides, if the online operation becomes too closely linked to the stores, Web retailers fear losing the tax-free status now held by e-commerce transactions.


Despite the hurdles, experts see this intermingling of operations as a necessity. "The advantage someone like Eddie Bauer has is that if I come to the store to make a return, you've got me," says Fiona Swerdlow, an analyst who heads the e-commerce group in New York for Jupiter Communications, an Internet-research firm. "And once you have me in the store, I may make an exchange instead of a return—or I might even buy something else."


So far, the clicks-and-mortar crowd's strategy seems to be paying off. A recent study by Greenfield Online Inc., a research firm in Wilton, Conn., found that 43% of online consumers are more comfortable purchasing from an online retailer that has a real-world store nearby.


Oddly enough, even though Web shoppers want the convenience of being able to return goods to a nearby store, they are less likely to actually return goods bought from clicks-and-mortar retailers. Only 9% of consumers in the Greenfield study had returned something they bought from a Web retailer with stores in the real world; 32% had returned goods bought from an Internet-only retailer, according to the Greenfield study. In many cases, the online buyers have a better handle on what they are getting, because they have seen the same or comparable merchandise in stores.


"There are some vast disadvantages to buying online," says Tony Ankers, an analyst at Greenfield in Wilton. "By having a store nearby, you're getting rid of those disadvantages."


At Nordstrom.com, a generous, flexible return policy was a no-brainer, says Dan Nordstrom, president and chief executive of the Web retailer. The Seattle-based retailer's parent company, Nordstrom Inc., built its name with over-the-top customer service. The Web site, like the chain of stores, will take back just about anything even without a receipt—no matter how long ago you bought it, what condition it's in or why you don't like it.


Every Web order arrives with a pre-paid, addressed package for returns to be shipped back—at the customers' expense unless they have used a Nordstrom credit card, but still more convenient than a run to the post office. And, of course, the stores accept full returns of anything bought on the Web site.


Mr. Nordstrom's philosophy: "If a customer is in possession of a good they're dissatisfied with, it doesn't do you any good to have them keep it. Every time they look at it, it gives them a weird, negative connotation that filters back to where they got it. We'd rather get it out of your closet and give you something you feel good about."


Such service isn't cheap. Even though the return rate for Nordstrom.com runs slightly below that of the Nordstrom catalog, some categories inevitably see high levels of returns. Jewelry comes back at a rate somewhere in the teens, shoe returns run in the high 20% range, and dress returns are in the high 30% range.


Yet Mr. Nordstrom is convinced that having such a flexible return policy doesn't actually mean that the company sees higher levels of returns. When Nordstrom launched its catalog in the early 1990s, it had an even more generous system: Customers were never charged for shipping costs on returns.


"People thought we were crazy and that we didn't understand the industry, but our return rates were the same as the rest of the industry," says Mr. Nordstrom. "But when you make returns easy, they don't increase—you just sell more."


Macys.com even goes a step further. Web customers, of course, are allowed to return their purchases to any Macy's store. But Web customers in cities with Macy's stores have an additional option: They can call Macy's customer-service department to have a store employee pick up a return. The service is free; the customer just has to be home when the Macy's employee shows up.


Few retailers have return policies that are as consumer-friendly as Nordstrom's or Macy's. But many are taking steps to make the whole process easier on customers. Web retailers that have print catalog operations seem to be at the forefront.


J. Crew Group has always accepted catalog-order returns at its stores, a policy that the company quickly applied to Web sales as well.The stores, which aren't integrated with the catalog's computer system and carry a different merchandise mix than the catalog, really just act as a simplified post office. A J. Crew store will take a Web return, package it up and ship it back to the catalog for the customer. Web customers can't get their money back immediately from the store; the return has to clear through the catalog operations before a customer's account is credited.


"Essentially, you take all the hassle away from someone having to mail it back themselves," says Mark Sarvary, J. Crew's chief executive officer. "If we could give them cash back right now it would be nice, but we're working toward that."


Ultimately, the apparel retailer plans to mesh the inventory systems of the Web site, the catalog and the stores, so that purchases from any of the channels can be tracked by any of the other channels. "We very much view ourselves as one J. Crew retailer selling through multiple channels, because that's how the consumer views us," says Mr. Sarvary. "We have to make it seamless for the consumer through the different channels."


Still, some of the bricks-and-clicks retailers have yet to jump into the game. Victoria's Secret, for instance, has a catalog, a Web site and a chain of stores. But the three channels, which report through different management structures, act independently of each other. And customers who shop at either the catalog or the Web site can't return anything to the stores, which also have a different merchandise mix.


"Customer satisfaction is an area that is paramount to the success of our businesses and an area we take very seriously," says a spokesman for Intimate Brands Inc., Victoria's Secret's parent. He adds that the Web site does have a free-return policy for orders of $100 or more. Eventually, Victoria's Secret says, it plans to unite the three channels.


That strategy should be a top priority for all retailers, analysts say.


"If you have different organizations that don't communicate with each other, then you're schizophrenic," says Elliott Ettenberg, chairman and chief executive of Customer Strategies Worldwide Inc. in New York. "The most myopic, self-centered thing you can do is try to explain to your customer that you're schizophrenic."


Ms. Quick is a staff reporter in The Wall Street Journal's New York bureau.













THIRTY-SIX

How Technology Has Changed the Way We . . . Know Where We Are


BY PUI-WING TAM



November 13, 2000



Jason Tarricone pulls out his Visor handheld computer several times a week to help him figure out two basic things for his social life: where to go and what to do.









With a tap on the screen of the handheld gadget, Mr. Tarricone opens up a location-based application called Vindigo. To activate it, the 23-year-old New Yorker enters information about which intersection he's at in Manhattan and waits for a response. In a few seconds, Vindigo brings up myriad restaurant, movie and local event listings that are all in his immediate vicinity.


"I just scroll down the screen and choose where I want to go," says Mr. Tarricone, a staffer at a non-profit organization. "My friends are really impressed by it, and I've even beamed the application to a couple of them."


Vindigo, which bills itself as a personal-navigation tool, is just one in a flood of location-based applications that will hit consumers over the next few years. With location technology being developed using everything from network algorithms to satellite systems, consumers soon will be able to take advantage of the new technology to more easily complete a range of tasks, such as search for their nearest cineplex's movie schedule or a listing of available local real estate.


Where will individuals be able to get their hands on the technology? Location technology will probably be available in a range of places, including embedded in cars and in laptop computers. But many location-technology providers and application makers are betting that consumers like Mr. Tarricone will most want to make use of the technology in mobile devices such as cell phones and handheld organizers, transforming them into convenient tools that can help them shop, search and safely find their way home.


"Will having location technology in your handheld device be a key requirement in the future?" asks Mike McGuire, an analyst at the market-research firm Dataquest in San Jose. "Yes, especially for business consumers and the mobile professional."


The power underlying location technology is that it helps bring individuals "personalization of content," adds Ken Dulaney, an analyst at San Jose-based Gartner Group. "The technology will help filter down massive amounts of content and help you get to the information that is relevant to you in just a short period of time."


A slew of companies are rushing to create location-based applications like Vindigo for handheld gadgets. Among the crowd is NextBus Information Systems Inc., Emeryville, Calif., which is using location technology to pinpoint where public buses are so that riders can estimate arrival times with a high degree of accuracy. Go2 Systems Inc., Irvine, Calif., has created a kind of Yellow Pages for the wireless Web that helps users identify everything from nearby gas stations and movie theaters to real-estate agents. And Pharos Inc., Torrance, Calif., has created global positioning system, or GPS, software and hardware plug-ins for handhelds so that users can map out routes to their destinations.


But Vindigo—the company takes its name from its chief product—has become one of the higher-profile operations providing location-based content for mobile devices. Founded in New York by entrepreneur Jason Devitt in June 1999, the company so far has launched a location-based restaurant- and event-finder service for Palm Inc.'s handheld devices in cities such as New York, Boston, San Francisco, Chicago and Washington, D.C. Since the service's official launch in March, Vindigo has attracted 135,000 subscribers and is adding 1,000 new customers a day, says Mr. Devitt. The service, which is free to users, earns its revenue through ads that appear along with the messages.


"We've currently exceeded our 2003 subscriber targets," says Mr. Devitt, who formerly designed and sold derivatives. "And by the end of this year, we should have around 300,000 subscribers."


Vindigo has big plans for the next 12 months. In September, the company began testing its location-based content on non-Palm devices, including Internet-enabled mobile phones; it may later extend the service to Pocket PC devices, made by Microsoft Corp. It also launched services in Los Angeles, Philadelphia, Atlanta, Seattle and Dallas in September. What's more, Vindigo took a step overseas by introducing its service in London at the end of October.


But mobile-device analysts say that Vindigo is just at the first stage of the location-technology curve because users currently must enter the nearest street intersection before the service can spit out relevant local information. Over the next two years, phase two of location technology—incorporating tools that can automatically and precisely identify where the individual is—will become the norm, analysts say.


Mark Zohar, director of telecom research at Forrester Research Inc., Cambridge, Mass., says that phase two will soon explode. Companies such as wireless-communications firm Qualcomm Inc., San Diego, are al-ready shipping sample chip sets with integrated GPS technology, so that cell-phone makers can build phones with embedded location technology. Other companies, such as U.S. Wireless Corp., San Ramon, Calif., are building location technology using network algorithms. In this method—in contrast to satellite-based GPS—a device's location is plotted by triangulating its wireless signal with nearby cellular-transmission towers. And unlike current location technology, the new wave should be able to pinpoint individuals to within about 10 yards of their exact location.


"The new technologies will make the wireless experience much more transparent to the user and intrinsic to their mobile life," says Mr. Zohar. He predicts that the new location technology will undergo trials next year and will be available on a widespread basis in 2002 or 2003.


The new location technology is gaining plenty of support. One advocate: the federal government, which favors the technology because of the improvements it can bring to personal safety and emergency situations. "Many people in trouble can't identify where they are because they're in trauma," says Steve Poizner, president of SnapTrack, a Qualcomm subsidiary that is developing GPS technology. "But if the device knows your location, it can enable so many more safety measures."


But it's precisely that ability that frightens some skeptics, who worry about the invasive nature of location technology. What if, for instance, vendors can figure out where you are at all times and bombard your cell phone or gadget with coupons and ads asking you to visit their nearest store?


Jim Kruger, Palm's director of product marketing, says the handheld-device industry is working to make sure that an individual's privacy isn't violated by location technology. Palm, based in Santa Clara, Calif., is championing a "pull" model, meaning that Palm users can pull up the location technology when they want to use it and then turn it off when they don't need it. "People don't want to be intruded upon, so we'll give them an opt-in type program," Mr. Kruger says.


SnapTrack's Mr. Poizner says his company is following the same "pull" model. "We're giving users complete control over when the location technology is utilized," he says, "so it can be turned off whenever people want."


Ms. Tam is a staff reporter in The Wall Street Journal's San Francisco bureau.













THIRTY-SEVEN

How Technology Has Changed the Way We . . . Die


BY LUCETTE LAGNADO



November 13, 2000



Rita Hayworth, the great movie actress of the 1940s, died more than a decade ago from the ravages of Alzheimer's. As a metropolitan reporter for a New York newspaper, I was asked by my city desk to run over to the elegant Upper West Side apartment building where Ms. Hayworth had spent her final years with her daughter, and cover her death as part of an old-fashioned stakeout.









When I arrived, there was the usual crowd of TV crews and reporters all hoping—in vain, as it turned out—to get some news. At last, Ms. Hayworth's daughter, Princess Yasmin, tall and almost as regal looking as her mother once had been, walked out, flanked by the nurse who had helped care for her mom.


They walked away and said not a word to any of us.


I wandered over and began chatting up an elderly doorman, trying to extract any bits of information. Yes, he said, he had had occasional glimpses of the Hayworth household. The daughter had lavished extraordinary care on her mother, transforming her apartment into the equivalent of a medical ward. "She built a hospital up there," he said to me, describing how the daughter of the Aga Khan had taken painstaking care of her legendary mother.


In the intervening years, as my own mother fell prey to a form of Alzheimer's, I found myself haunted by the story of the movie star and the daughter trying to care for her. As Mom and I wandered from cold, forbidding intensive-care units to hostile, uncaring nursing homes, my mind would often wander back to that Central Park West building, and I would try to picture Ms. Hayworth, devoid of memory and speech, being comforted and cared for by her daughter. It must have been so cozy up there, I fantasized, so different from the bossy nurses and unheeding administrators my mother and I encountered on a daily basis.


The fragment of my interview with the doorman didn't make it into my newspaper, but it did penetrate the pages of my consciousness. Rita Hayworth, the princess and the doorman—in ways that none of them could have known—had changed the lives of two other human beings, mine and that of my mother.


For this is what emerged from my "encounter" with Rita Hayworth and her daughter: I, too, eventually decided to bring my mother home, along with all the machines and contraptions needed to care for her. And though it would take some bitter years for me to reach that decision—years struggling with tough, uncaring institutions—I, too, decided I would try to "build a hospital up there."



I thought of Rita Hayworth again recently as I struggled to assess the role technology plays in dying. In the intervening years, I had lived through the illness and deaths of both my parents, had known intimately the loneliness of an ICU unit, had prayed the following prayer while looking at monitors, "Please God, let those lines mean that they are getting better. Let those numbers flashing on the screen mean they will be well again."


I had loved the machines and hated the machines, I had worshipped the seemingly supernatural powers of technology, and I shuddered as I realized, too late, its limitations.


There were times late at night, as I sat by my comatose father, that I longed to take him away from the blur of tubes and the rhythmic sounds and the glaring lights, and fantasized about earlier times when taking care of someone meant holding them in your arms, and stroking their hair. Where had those times gone? They seemed as distant and forgotten as, well, an old Rita Hayworth movie.


Somewhere in the course of my family's nightmare odyssey through the health system I had discovered that hospitals had become temples of technology. From academic medical centers to small community nursing homes, institutions had, like the society around them, allowed machines to take the place of people. Costly staffers were let go in favor of costly acquisitions, and the result was a nightmarish terrain where most people feared to tread.


I had never become a Luddite, anxious to smash the machines that for so many had become symbols of death and pain. But I was a deep skeptic.



What role should technology play in death? Should it be the hero, valiantly keeping us alive in ever more ingenious ways, longer than we had ever thought possible? Or does a compassionate death mean eliminating any reliance on machines and the dehumanization that seems to come with them? Has our society's increasing reliance on gadgets and equipment to sustain or extend life made for a needlessly painful way of dying?


Over the years, I have heard arguments across the spectrum—from those who curse any technology as interfering in the natural flow of life, to those who believe that technology is the answer, the only answer, to our health-care woes. I have been to the highest-tech wards of the highest-tech hospitals, and to the lowest-tech hospices caring for those with only moments to live. I've talked to doctors and patients, nurses and administrators. And I've decided that the fundamental question we should be asking ourselves is a simple one, but one that's rarely addressed: Is there a way that technology could actually make for a more humane death?


A contradiction in terms? Absolutely not, says one of this nation's gurus in the movement to improve care for the dying, Kathleen Foley. "Technology is not the enemy," says Dr. Foley, a pain specialist at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York. "I want to expand technology for a good death."


Dr. Foley is the ultimate "angel" of the dying, traveling and speaking almost indefatigably to call attention to the plight of America's terminally ill. The physician, who also oversees the Project on Death in America, a $45 million nonprofit foundation on dying funded by George Soros, believes that it is possible and even necessary to use the most advanced technology—in pain relief and symptom management, among other areas—to improve the plight of Americans, who too often die in pain.


Technological advances aren't in themselves evil; it is simply that they became more important than the people they were serving, Dr. Foley contends. "Technology has eclipsed the human experience," she says with a sigh. "The extraordinary advances have advanced beyond our human ability to figure out how they fit into our lives. We built iron lungs for people, and that led to respirators. We can do heart transplants. What all this technology has done is it has given some control to physicians to take care of patients, but then technology became the imperative, and the human aspects of care, of being with people and witnessing their suffering and of simply sitting there doing nothing became unimportant."


The danger she sees in the anti-technology strain—those people who decry the use of technology to keep people alive—is that advances that could actually improve care may be shunned or reviled when they ought to be embraced.


Perfect example? The morphine pump, a high-tech piece of equipment that allows patients in severe pain to regulate the amount of morphine they need to control their pain. The pump is pricey, to be sure, but also very handy, and it has made a remarkable difference in the end-of-life care of people who wish to die at home; the pump, says Dr. Foley, can enable someone whose body is riddled with cancer to die in beloved, familiar surroundings even as they are able to dose themselves to obtain the comfort they need. As such, it is an example of a technological gadget that can humanize the experience of dying.


There are other such technologies in use and on the drawing boards that can make dying less painful and even restore quality to people's final days. "Technology" in this case is defined very broadly. It can be as simple as a hospital bed with levers allowing a sick person to maneuver and position themselves comfortably. Or it can be a respirator that makes breathing possible when a person can't catch their breath. Technology can be a potent pill designed to control terrible pain, or a feeding tube that allows a person who can't eat much anymore to survive because of the liquid food going painlessly into their stomach. Or it can be radiation therapy, delivered by a powerful machine costing millions of dollars to a person ridden with pain because of bone cancer.


Even the much reviled respirator, Dr. Foley points out, can in fact be the most compassionate way to treat a person dying of pneumonia. "Technology is good, and if a patient has pneumonia it is the best in the world—if a patient has an inability to breathe, it is exactly the approach we want to have," she says. In the same vein, she argues, it would be wrong to banish the notion of an intensive-care unit; in some cases, it is precisely where a desperately ill or dying person needs to be to get the most comforting care.


Raging arguments are taking place about all these measures. To the vocal, pull-the-plug brigade, anything to do with technology is evil. It is wrong, they say, even to use respirators or feeding pumps to prolong life. They argue against ICUs and almost any sort of machine.


The pro-life advocates argue, on the contrary, that society is going down a dangerous path, where it decides who is worthy of living and who needs to die merely by using the subjective, capricious measure of "quality." In such a culture, the elderly, the disabled, the chronically sick, even the depressed—anyone deemed too costly or burdensome to care for—are vulnerable.


But all the divisions and angst are only symptomatic of the larger argument taking place behind the scenes on how best to care for the dying. On one score, there is overwhelming unity: Most Americans die horribly—and painfully. More than 80% die in hospitals or nursing homes far from their loved ones. Many die wracked by pain, unable to get the relief they need. It is, says another guru of dying well, Nicholas Christakis, a situation where Americans experience "deaths they deplore in situations they despise."


Dr. Christakis, a hospice physician and University of Chicago professor, argues that dying has become such an awful affair that as a result even murder—as espoused by the pro-euthanasia squads—is enjoying some cachet. "That people would want to be put to death rather than being cared for adequately—to me there is no more poignant indictment of the care of the dying," says Dr. Christakis. "The problem with euthanasia is that it eradicates the pain by eradicating life." Yet, the fact that this sordid practice has reached the level of popularity it has, he says, is "abundant evidence that people are not happy."



Dying well recently made the cover of a newsweekly and dominated a television special by Bill Moyers. And this week the Journal of the American Medical Association is devoting an entire issue to examining different points of views on how to improve dying in this country. Demographics alone are influential in making this a burning topic. Baby boomers are confronting their own mortality, even as the country is seeing an unprecedented number of octogenarians, a mark of a prosperous society.


But the sad truth is that despite the high-tech glitz in evidence at so many medical centers, and the proliferation of departments in every academic specialty or subspecialty imaginable, these institutions come up woefully short in the department of humanity.


A major factor has been the rise of what Dr. Foley calls the Technocrat Physician—that monster of efficiency who comes to the bedside, barely glances at the patient, and instead devotes whatever time he spends to inspecting the monitors, checking the numbers in the nursing chart, then turns around and leaves.


The notion of the cold, unfeeling physician, so consumed with how well the machinery in the patient's room is functioning, or the experiments in the laboratory are progressing, that they barely examine the patient, has become so commonplace, such an indelible fact of life at many leading medical centers, that I am certain it has contributed to the national despair.


Is it any wonder that, faced with the prospect of a doctor who won't even spend time with a patient or talk with them in their most hopeless period, that the patient will long for death and even be ready to encourage doctors to be the ones to help them to achieve it? After all, a physician-assisted suicide takes so much less than a physician-assisted life. Physician-assisted living requires real effort—the doctor has to be around to offer moral support, to visit a patient frequently, to provide hope and reassurance, along with the painkiller prescriptions and the gadgets.


During the course of my parents' illnesses, I came to know that most arrogant breed of doctor all too well—the specialist who deigned to drop by in the ICU or the ward, and barely did more than address us with a cold nod of the head, then retreated to the nearest desk to make mysterious markings in the ever-thick patient chart. I often thought that I detected a look almost of contempt as they examined my worsening parents, as if to say, "Why bother—there is nothing much to be done." And even when they did, quite literally, nothing, they always managed to bill extravagant amounts.


There were exceptions, of course, and they stand out amid the blurry procession of haughty white-coated specialists marching in and out of our hospital rooms. But the others floated by us like so many automatons, as unfeeling as the machines they were checking, and how I longed for the physician of old—with little to offer, perhaps, in the way of treatments but able to proffer a great deal in the way of home-spun comfort and guidance.


"There is a feeling you can either be a technocrat or a compassionate doctor," says Dr. Foley. "But what drives me is the belief that you can have technology and compassion, and the [trick] is establishing a balance in which one doesn't replace the other, in which you have both." It is not a matter, she contends, of shooing aside the physicians who pride themselves on their ability to keep up-to-date with the latest research and most cutting-edge technologies, but rather, to make use of their knowledge base to achieve a more humane end-of-life experience.


In other words, for doctors to be both good and effective, they don't have to become the jolly physician of old, with nothing more high tech than a tongue depressor in their black medicine kit, but to behave as if they are, and demonstrate the compassion that was once the profession's hallmark.



At last the fax came rolling out of the machine.


It was from Princess Yasmin, by way of her private secretary. In it were point-by-point replies to the questions I had harbored for so many years—about the princess's feelings about death and technology, and how her own experience with her famous mother had influenced her philosophy about caring for the terminally ill.


"There are too few options available for people who are dying," the princess wrote. "Why? As a society we are afraid to talk about dying." And, she added, mindful of my questions about whether only people with means, like herself, can bring their loved ones home, "many people can't afford options like fulltime home care." Hospice, which provides services to a dying person at home, "isn't available to everyone," she noted, particularly those who don't die in the six-month timeline required by Medicare. As a result, many Alzheimer's patients—who might take years to die—are denied the comfort of hospice and relegated to nursing homes instead.


Assisted suicide? "If we had better care available for people with chronic conditions," the princess had replied, "we would not need to resort to assisted suicide."


Was home the best place? "People should be able to die in the most appropriate setting," she replied. "Sometimes that is at home, but not always."


Can people with less means still achieve a more humane way of caring for a loved one, I had asked her? "Good care doesn't have to be more expensive. High touch vs. high tech can be not only more affordable but more appropriate, too. This high touch can come not only from family members (after all, many people with AD have no family) but from professional caregivers. They are providing the daily comfort care, and yet we underpay them and treat them like they don't matter."



And what of technology, I had asked. "Of course technology can be beneficial," she answered, "but not if it only extends life artificially and doesn't address the quality of that life." She proceeded to attack the use of feeding tubes, and "machines," contending in her note that "dying should be a natural process of life, and technology should not be used because it is available and can lengthen life."


The fax was accompanied by a call from Victoria Mahairas, Princess Yasmin's personal assistant. Yes, she could confirm—at last—what the doorman had said on that stakeout of so many years ago, Princess Yasmin had built the equivalent of a hospital up there, with a hospital bed and full-time round-the-clock nurses to care for her mother. And yes, she had felt that at home she could provide more humane care to her mom.


But no, Ms. Mahairas also said, the princess had run a fairly simple operation that generally steered clear of technology. Indeed, she continued to be wary of technology and look askance at its role in caring for the dying. She was, for example, thoroughly opposed to feeding tubes and, according to her assistant, had tried to say no to most machines when it came to her mom. Whatever "hospital" that I had imagined she had built up there on Central Park West all these years was a very low-tech affair. And I, of course, had embraced technology as a way to sustain life, and have continued to do so.


Knowing then what I know now, would I have done it any differently? Would I have brought my mother home but shunned the feeding tubes and the miniature respirator and the countless other gadgets and machines that are necessary to maintain a very sick person in one's Manhattan apartment? Would I have thought: Well, no, that is not what happened with Rita Hayworth?


I don't think so. I think that the central result of my fantasy about Rita Hayworth's final years at home was essentially on target—it reinforced a belief in the need to build what I can only call a culture of caring, a culture where loved ones are, whenever possible, brought closer and made a part of the family when they need you the most. That was the central lesson of both the stakeout and the fax—a humanistic philosophy that transcends views for or against technology.


And no, as Dr. Foley so eloquently puts it, technology isn't the enemy of our dying loved ones. If used properly, technology could be the greatest friend in the world, especially if it helps, as it did my mother, breathe and eat for many more years than she could have hoped to survive otherwise. It becomes harmful only when it supplants the human connection. It causes harm only when we delude ourselves that we can abandon our loved ones to the care of the machines and the institutions, and they will be fine.


They won't be, nor will we. For left to the mercy of machines and the institutions that enshrine them, they won't be whole, and neither will we.


Toward the end, my mother couldn't speak or remember much, but even as her faculties faltered, the more human she seemed to become. She still smiled and was sweet and loving and, I believe, responsive to the loving touch, the touch that no technology, however advanced, has yet been devised to provide.



I have a new fantasy. Wherever they are, Rita Hayworth and my mom have gotten to know each other. I think of them chatting, looking down at the world, and shaking their heads at the dizzying changes.


Both were lively, charming women, pretty and intensely, intensely human. Both were, it seems, great mothers.


I like to imagine them occasionally exchanging gossip about their daughters, the princess and the reporter. I hope that both of them believe they were treated well.


Ms. Lagnado is a senior special writer in The Wall Street Journal's New York bureau.













THIRTY-EIGHT

How Technology Has Changed the Way We . . . Deal With Our Doctors


BY LAURA LANDRO



November 13, 2000



Welcome to the wired hospital.


At Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center in Boston, Daniel Sands logs onto the online medical-records system on his laptop and calls up a list of patients he's scheduled to see in clinic. A click of the mouse brings up their electronic medical charts; as patients check in at the front desk, a flag pops up to alert him, and the computer provides vital statistics, medications and a "to do" list. Another click takes him to patients' insurance information and a list of any specialists caring for them. If he prescribes a new drug that may cause an adverse reaction with medication a patient is already taking, he'll be alerted instantly by the computer. He can quickly search the medical literature if he needs some diagnostic information, and use a program called Clinquery to see if there have been similar cases in the hospital's databanks.









One incoming patient is an 82-year-old woman with a long list of maladies who takes about 20 different medications. A nurse who saw her previously left a note in the system reporting that the woman's daughter called, worried about her condition, and was advised to bring her to the emergency room. In the ER, doctors were able to access her previous X-ray and lab results in their own computer and quickly determine that the problem was an exacerbation of her chronic lung disease. They added their notes and a treatment plan into her electronic medical record, including some new medications. At home, the patient or her daughter will be able to use the PatientSite Internet connection to log on with their secure password and review the records.


"Patients love it," says Dr. Sands. "They feel more connected to their care, and it has really extended the scope of the patient-doctor relationship."


When it comes to the adoption of technology, the health-care industry in general has been among the last to embrace high-tech computing solutions and the Internet. One problem: Many large hospitals operate at a loss, hurt in recent years by cuts in federal Medicare spending and insurance reimbursements, belt-tightening in managed care, and rising drug costs. CareGroup Inc., Beth Israel's parent company and one of the two major hospital systems affiliated with the Harvard University School of Medicine, reported an operating loss of $130 million for the year ended June 30, 1999, largely due to continuing problems from the 1997 merger of Beth Israel and Deaconess hospitals. The company is now embarking on a restructuring, dropping some services and selling some buildings. It says it expects to post a narrower loss when it reports fiscal 2000 results, and aims to break even in fiscal 2002.


Despite the losses, however, industry trade publication InformationWeek recently described CareGroup as "one of the most technologically progressive, Web-enabled health-care organizations in the country." And John Halamka, its chief information officer, says it won't cut back on the technological innovations that have put it at the forefront of a technological revolution in patient care. "There is a general perception here that information technology is absolutely essential and must be supported," says Dr. Halamka, who is also an emergency-room physician. Moreover, its systems are providing a model for a growing number of hospitals and medical practices that are now looking to technological solutions to reduce the staggering amount of medical error, and improve patient care and communication. Ultimately, its proponents believe, the Internet-based medical information and records systems will also dramatically reduce costs and improve hospitals' bottom line.


Beth Israel got in on the revolution early, through its affiliation with a group of medical-computing pioneers at Harvard University. More than three decades ago, two medical professors, Warner Slack and Howard Bleich, noticed that hospitals were spending millions on computer systems that did little more than perform billing and administrative functions. Together, they persuaded Harvard to form a new division with the mission of finding ways to use the computer to help improve patient care. They wanted doctors to be able to quickly access lab results, search the medical literature, get advice on patient conditions, use e-mail and get reminders and alerts about their patients. Not only would the computer assist in the day-to-day practice of medicine, but it would also help in the continuing education of medical students and house staff.


They got the approval to proceed at Beth Israel in 1977, and then at Brigham & Women's Hospital in 1982. Subsequently they formed the Center for Clinical Computing, and staffed up with programmers, engineers and doctors. Over the next few years, the Harvard teaching hospitals went through a massive consolidation, as Brigham and Massachusetts General merged to form Partners Healthcare System, and Beth Israel and Deaconess combined to form Care-Group. Both have since gobbled up regional hospitals and clinics, and are rivals for the area health-care market, though Partners is in better financial condition. But they have the common bond of their Harvard affiliation—and the Center for Clinical Computing tools as the basis for their advanced electronic medical-records systems.


The hospital groups have both tailored the systems to their own needs; at Beth Israel Deaconess, for example, medical students can use the Internet-based secure medical-records system not only to keep patient files, but also to take a required certificate program on how to deal with common problems such as needle sticks. Doctors can log onto an electrocardiogram case of the week, and get help evaluating a Pap smear. A patient-lookup function helps staffers find patients and correct things like misspellings of names that might lead to medical error.


Partners Healthcare, meanwhile, developed its own electronic medical-record and physician-alert systems, such as an automatic alert that pages physicians for critical laboratory results and a physician order-entry system that requires doctors to electronically enter all their orders and sign out when they are cross-covering for each other. Gilad Kuperman, a physician who is also Partners' director of clinical-systems research, says the order-entry system at Brigham & Women's Hospital costs $1 million to $2 million a year to maintain, saves $5 million a year and reduces serious medication errors by 55%.


According to a hospital study, during a single week in April 1998 at the Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, the number of lookups for inpatients totaled 35,229 and the number of lookups for ambulatory patients was 44,383. In 1999, approximately 700 physicians and 300 nurse practitioners used the system to record clinical information and to prescribe medications for about 83,000 patients. At Brigham & Women's Hospital, since 1993, clinicians have entered an average of 15,000 orders per day on behalf of their patients—and more than 380 orders are changed each day in response to advice from the computing system.


With medical privacy a hot issue, what about patient confidentiality? Any medical staffer can log onto the systems with a SecurID, a small, handheld device with a microprocessor displaying a code that changes every 60 seconds or so. To access the system, staffers must enter a username, a personal identification number and the current password from the SecurID. "We made a decision that any doctor can have access to any patient," Dr. Slack says. "The ethic is that no one looks anyone else up unless there is a reason." Every "lookup" of a patient and its reason is recorded, enabling doctors to keep track of who has been viewing patient data and why.


If a patient's records need to be protected for security reasons, Beth Israel Deaconess will make an exception to the open-access rule. But open access, combined with the "user-friendliness" of the system, has helped make converts of virtually everyone, Dr. Slack says. Moreover, instead of physically locating all patient records in a central data source vulnerable to physical disasters, the online system creates a "virtual record" that is assembled on demand and not stored in a central repository. The different hospital computers linked by the online records system are geographically dispersed and locked in secure computer rooms; the Web pages containing the medical records can't be stored on local hard disks by the browser.


Dr. Slack says that patients have a great deal of control over their medical records. At Beth Israel Deaconess, they can find out who has looked at their records, and review the records themselves. They can e-mail their doctors and use a feature called My Health Calendar to keep up with their appointments and monitor their own health issues such as blood pressure. A pilot program in the neonatal ward allows parents to use the Internet connections to monitor their premature infants' progress. Patients can also search for basic medical information and link to more sophisticated information on the Internet if they want it. "As physicians and nurses, we have to try and help our patients navigate the medical data," says Charles Safran, a primary-care physician at Beth Israel Deaconess. "There is just too much information out there."


Dr. Slack, author of a 1997 book about the experience of building the clinical computing system, says patients are the most underutilized resource in health care—and doctors are unfairly tagged as technophobic because they haven't jumped on the Internet and computing bandwagon. He lays the blame with hospital administrators and information-systems officers who focus all their institutions' resources on financial computing with no thought to how they might improve their relationships with patients and patient care. "Blaming the already beleaguered doctor for being too old or too computerphobic or too conservative is a handy excuse for bad computing," he says. "In our collective experience, if computing is helpful and easy to use, clinicians will use it."


Among the early converts was Dr. Safran, who joined up with the staff of the Center for Clinical Computing and developed programs to help in out-patient clinics. He came up with the idea of sending doctors alerts and reminders and offering the Clinquery feature that allows staffers to search the computerized clinical data bank of all the patients admitted to Beth Israel since 1984. Last year Dr. Safran formed a company called Clinician Support Technology Inc., on whose advisory board Drs. Bleich and Slack sit, to market some of the e-health programs aimed at patients to other hospital groups and insurers.


"Howard [Bleich] and Warner [Slack] had one really great vision and idea: the tight integration of all the systems—one-stop shopping, you didn't have to start and stop different programs," says Dr. Safran. "So your medical-literature searching program was the same program and the same style as your patient records—all in one computing program."


Dr. Kuperman of Partners Healthcare ranks Drs. Slack and Bleich "among the pioneers who really invented the field of medical computing, and whose principles have persisted to this day."


While the Harvard hospitals have been gradually adopting clinical computing over many years, many hospitals in the U.S. haven't invested in such technology—and duplicating it now is an expensive proposition. Drs. Kuperman and Slack estimate that to build a system from scratch at a major medical center would cost $50 million and take several years to integrate with existing hospital systems. But most hospitals already spend 2% to 6% of their revenue on computer systems for their billing and administrative functions, Dr. Slack estimates, and adding clinical-computing tools "could be done within the budget of what most hospitals are now spending for what I consider to be bad computing."


The doctors acknowledge that it also takes time and patience to see the results of advances like electronic patient records. "It's easier for me to scribble a prescription on a piece of paper and hand it to a patient than anything I can do on a computer," says Dr. Safran. "Even though we can shorthand it, I still have to log on, put in my password, get into the program that's going to write a prescription and identify the medication." Moreover, entering patient data is time consuming: It can take as long as a year for the records of any given medical practice's entire patient population to be entered in the system.


"A medical practice has to be patient for about a year to start seeing the huge benefits that are going to accrue from something as simple and as important as having patient medications online," says Dr. Safran. "The second time the patient comes to see me six months later, I can press a button and it's all there." And given the concern over medical errors, he adds, "it's almost a crime not to have patients' medical information online to prevent drug interactions, to prevent people from getting medication they're known to be allergic to, and for checking their doses."


Dr. Kuperman agrees that it was an uphill battle at first to get doctors in his hospitals excited about the computing systems. "You had to keep people enthused while you were going through the building process, and tell patients about the vision, and explain to the clinicians that they'll have access to data to help them make decisions and do research." Now, he says, "there is compelling evidence that these systems are important and really make a difference for patient care."


There is still resistance among doctors to some of the high-tech advances. At Brigham & Women's, an effort to try to point physicians to better use of radiology studies, for example, failed after doctors either ignored the suggestions or said the feature was too complicated. Dr. Slack stresses that the systems aren't a substitute for the doctor's own intuition or experience. Doctors may decide, for example, that a test the computer says it's time for isn't necessary, or that a possible drug interaction won't affect the patient enough to override the benefits of prescribing a new drug. Over the next decade, he says, the most pressing issue will be how to best present information to doctors that will help them better care for their patients—without overwhelming them. "Even with the alerts and reminders, we can reach a situation of cognitive overload," he says. "If you present too many problems to the doctor who is signing on, you reach a point of diminishing returns."


But there are already results from "reminder" programs, for example, which appear in a patient's record, usually when a patient is already scheduled for an appointment and it is time for a Pap smear, a tetanus shot or another immunization. At Beth Israel Deaconess, Dr. Safran says that after installing a feature that reminded doctors that patients needed a vaccine during flu season, they cut in half the amount of time it took a group of doctors to get their patients in for a flu shot and got twice as many people in the patient population vaccinated.


There are also "overdue" reminders, which appear in the system's patient records to remind a doctor, for example, that a diabetes patient hasn't been in for a year and needs an eye exam. Such features ensure that doctors don't have to think of every aspect of a patient's care without help. "You wouldn't get on a plane where the pilot hadn't gone through a checklist, yet you routinely go to your physician's office where there is no checklist, and no backup system," Dr. Safran says. Adds Dr. Slack, "The pilot may know that instrument panel cold, but the co-pilot still goes through the checklist. In many regards, we as physicians have relied too much on memory."


For patients in the hospital, features such as the alerts function of the clinical-computing system make sure that issues that need immediate attention are flagged—for example, if a patient's serum creatine is high and he is also on an antibiotic that might cause kidney problems. With AIDS patients, an alert will go out when it is time for an important test or a change in treatment. The doctors say studies showed that the amount of time it took for a doctor to reduce or stop a drug dose that might cause a problem declined significantly as a result of the alerts.


The clinical-computing systems have been a boon to physicians in other ways. Beth Israel was among the first hospitals to provide a way for its staff to directly access medical papers online. The Paper-Chase system was designed by Dr. Bleich of the Center for Clinical Computing to help staffers search the medical literature without having to go through a medical librarian; it now has its own Web site and is widely used by medical professionals and consumers.


Since then, the clinical-computing group has adopted some online tools devised by others to help doctors, including UpToDate.com, which has more than 40,000 pages of text, 100,000 abstracts from the National Library of Medicine's Medline, a complete drug-information database, and a summary of the most important advances in treating disease and new medical problems like West Nile Virus.


Some hospitals might consider the technology a luxury in tight fiscal times. But Dr. Slack contends that it can help solve financial problems. In the early days of electronic patient registration at Beth Israel Hospital, the time required to collect unpaid bills dropped to 39 days in 1982 from 65 days in 1977. At Brigham & Women's Hospital, the comparable time dropped to 59 days in 1988 from 100 days in 1983, and outpatient revenue, largely reflecting improved collection, increased 45%. Today, Dr. Halamka says, the online records system is saving CareGroup more than $1 million annually from reductions in clinician search times, patient admitting time, the number of admitted patients, the length of hospital stays and time spent in training. He projects that it could increase revenue by $3 million to $4 million annually by retaining current patients and helping to attract new ones.


"We've done our best to keep the costs of the cybermedicine systems as low as possible while providing computing that helps clinicians in a major way," Dr. Slack says. "The cybermedicine systems and their derivatives in our hospitals have resulted in better financial accountability, as well as better medicine."


Ms. Landro is a senior editor for The Wall Street Journal in New York.



Ready Access to Patient Records

In the life-or-death setting of an emergency room, getting a patient's medical history is a race against time.


At Boston's CareGroup Inc., technology has cut the time to about two seconds from an average of two hours.


When Beth Israel and Deaconess, two Harvard University teaching hospitals, merged in 1997 to form CareGroup, they consolidated their two emergency-room centers into one on Beth Israel's East Campus. But the two hospitals had incompatible computer systems; Beth Israel's was a state-of-the-art system custom-built by Harvard's Center for Clinical Computing, while all the data at Deaconess's West Campus was stored in a standard off-the-shelf industry database. "East didn't talk to West and West didn't talk to East," says John Halamka, an emergency-room physician who is also CareGroup's chief information officer.


It was a recipe for disaster.


If patients whose records were still on the West Campus facility went to the East Campus ER a quarter-mile away, retrieving the medical charts took as long as three hours. The East ER would have to call the medical-records department at West, which had electronic medical records for every patient but only one paper copy—and that copy might be checked out already by someone else. Finally, someone at West would retrieve the paper chart, and drive it over to the East ER to be hand-delivered to the clinician who needed it.


Faxing wasn't a viable option; with an older patient population, charts could be three to four inches thick, and even divided into several volumes. At least two staffers were typically working around the clock to retrieve records from the West Campus facility. Dr. Halamka estimates that the cost of the search process for administrative personnel alone totaled more than $260,000 annually. An even bigger cost was the amount of time doctors themselves were spending trying to get their hands on a chart. Physicians making $150 to $200 an hour were losing as much as two hours a shift searching for records, which worked out to an additional $380,000 a year.


Of an average of 130 patients arriving in the ER daily, only about 10 to 13 had records at the West Campus. So to simply retrieve records on 10% of its patients, the ER was spending roughly $640,000 annually. With patients stacked up waiting on medical charts, ambulances sometimes had to be diverted to other hospitals, not only jeopardizing patients' health but also costing the hospital revenue. Patients who were waiting around were suffering in pain longer, Dr. Halamka says, and by the time the staff could treat them, they were often in bad enough shape to require longer hospital stays or more-invasive procedures.


Dr. Halamka says the goal was to consolidate medical records "virtually" at the two hospitals to make the information instantly available to emergency-room staff—without spending a fortune and installing an entirely new system. His solution was to develop CareWeb, a secure Internet-based system that used a standard Web browser to lift information from both hospitals' records systems by creating a "query" for information about a patient. The query was then submitted over CareGroup's corporate intranet—its private network, with a "firewall" for security—to either Beth Israel's or Deaconess's hospital systems. Those systems responded with information including medical history, medication lists, records of allergies, notes and previous visits. The CareWeb program would interpret the incoming messages into a single presentation that it returned to the ER as a series of Web pages.


With the new system, a clinician in the ER can now walk up to a PC with a Web browser installed, sign in with a SecurID, type in a patient's name and retrieve that patient's records on-screen in about two seconds. The hospital is able to process patients more rapidly in the ER, which Dr. Halamka figures prevents the loss of $50,000 to $100,000 annually in revenue. Because ER staff can intervene faster in patient care, they can cut the number of admissions and the length of hospital stays, thereby cutting costs. Most important, Dr. Halamka notes, they can save patient lives by quickly identifying urgent situations.


"If you show up in the emergency room with a problem, I don't have to waste time searching a file room at 2 in the morning," says Dr. Halamka. In the hospital's own in-house survey, nurses and doctors expressed a high degree of satisfaction with the system, particularly in dealing with "complicated" patients from Deaconess with elaborate medical histories and long medication lists who couldn't communicate their own information.


CareWeb was subsequently expanded and merged with the Beth Israel Deaconess clinical-computing system to create what Dr. Halamka refers to as "one Web-based destination for everyone in the hospital."


The next leap, Dr. Halamka says, is wireless technology. Beth Israel Deaconess is already trying out wireless Palm Pilot devices to access medical records in the emergency room. And it recently signed an agreement with AT&T Corp. to link physicians' and nurses' cell phones to their hospital switchboard numbers using a low-power in-building system that won't interfere with other hospital electronic devices or systems. Soon, he predicts, the ability for doctors to get crucial information for urgent patient care will be "ubiquitous."













THIRTY-NINE

How Technology Has Changed the Way We . . . Stay in Touch With Family


BY EVAN RAMSTAD



November 13, 2000



As Greg Businelle water-skied on a lake near Houston one Saturday last April, a small wave hit his board just as he passed over a shallow eddy of water moving the other way. The conflicting motion was enough to send him cartwheeling. He hit the lake bottom and, when he came to the surface, didn't move. His brother, a paramedic, dove in to help.









After being flown to Memorial Hermann Hospital, the city's major trauma center, doctors discovered the 32-year-old had broken his back and sucked lake mud into his lungs.


For several days after the accident, dozens of friends and relatives tried to phone Mr. Businelle's wife and mother to find out how he was doing. Then Chip Sherwood, who had recently started a technology consulting partnership with Mr. Businelle and who had been sending e-mail to friends and relatives on the family's behalf, offered to build a Web site where people could keep up with the situation.


Mr. Businelle's wife, Jill, agreed, and Mr. Sherwood created gregandjill.com. Over the next four months, more than 100 relatives and friends around the world routinely logged in to find out about Mr. Businelle's condition.


Using the Web for family and personal matters is still relatively rare. According to a study by the Pew Research Center, funded by the Pew Charitable Trusts, 16% of Americans say they or a family member have a personal Web site. By contrast, nearly all of the 55 million Americans who go online each day use electronic mail, the study found.


The creation of personal Web sites is growing, though, encouraged by Internet service providers and other companies that help with sites for weddings and genealogical research. Liz and Patrick Greene of Dallas, for example, registered the domain melaniegreene.com before the birth of their daughter this summer. Mr. Greene e-mailed most relatives and friends a few hours after Melanie's birth, directing them to the site to see digital photos of her. Surfing on Yahoo! Inc.'s Geocities, the largest provider of services and storage space for personal sites, turns up a mix of hobbies, passions, writings and photos.


But a site like gregandjill.com shows how a family can use the Web in the direst of circumstances, and how online communication can become central to a family's emotional life.


Mr. Sherwood started the site because he realized that Mrs. Businelle couldn't keep up with all the people who were calling. Moreover, the hospital trauma ward's waiting room had only one phone, and Mr. Businelle's friends and relatives were clogging it up with their calls.


Initially, Mr. Sherwood wrote daily summaries of Mr. Businelle's condition, based on his own visits to the hospital and calls from Mrs. Businelle. The early dispatches were brief. On the day after the accident, he wrote:


"X-rays and the MRI have now confirmed that Greg has a fractured C4 vertebra. The medical team has been able to straighten Greg's spine and put him in traction to ensure continued correct positioning, however, an operation is still going to be necessary to splint and set the spine so that it can heal. For the moment all we know is that he has limited movement in his arms, and feeling, at least to some degree, in all parts of his body. Everything else is going to be touch and go and only time will help answer all of our questions."


And the next day:


"Unfortunately, there are additional complications. The spinal operation cannot be performed until the more immediate problem of infection is overcome. Greg is fighting a very severe lung infection. As much as 75% of his lungs are likely infected. The next few days are going to be critical as doctors try to get the infection under control with antibiotics and steroids. We have been warned that it is probably going to get worse before it gets better."


By the end of that week, one of Mr. Businelle's lungs had collapsed, and on May 8, 10 days after the accident, Mr. Sherwood wrote:


"The situation is worse. Greg's white blood cell count is climbing uncontrollably—indicating that the infection, or even another infection elsewhere in his body, is growing. The medical team isn't even sure where it is. This is a life-threatening complication. I just spoke to Jill and she asked that I please ask all of you to pray for Greg—we need a miracle here."


Mr. Businelle's uncle, Jerry Goff, a minister in Tyler, Texas, spent the first few days after the accident in the hospital waiting room. After returning home, he began using the Web site to keep up. When he saw that dispatch, Mr. Goff says, "I thought this could be it. Everyone that saw that, pray for a miracle; we realized that's really what we were praying for."


By that evening, doctors were encouraged by some progress. But the next day, Mr. Businelle went into cardiac arrest, one of 11 times he would need to be resuscitated during 54 days in a coma.


On May 16, Mr. Businelle opened his eyes for the first time since the accident, but he wasn't cognizant. Two days later, Mrs. Businelle took over the task of writing the daily summaries for the Web site. She concluded each one with a Bible verse. Usually, she wrote just before bed each night and e-mailed it to Mr. Sherwood, who updated the site in the morning.


In her first dispatch, she announced that the lake water in her husband's lungs had now brought on pneumonia and was complicating his recovery. At the end, she wrote:


"We are looking at another one to two months of him being in ICU, assuming there are no other complications. Please give thanks to the Lord for bringing us this far and continue to pray for the healing of his lungs, kidneys and spine. In addition, pray that we can get the {pneumonia} under control."


Over the next few weeks, she chronicled Mr. Businelle's slow recovery. First, one of four chest tubes came out. Then another infection set in, which required Mrs. Businelle and medical personnel to don special robes and masks when they approached him. Then came the anxiety of moving him out of the intensive-care unit for a CAT scan, which showed he wouldn't need spinal surgery. Then, doctors performed a tracheotomy to assist his breathing.


Neither she nor Mr. Sherwood provided friends and relatives with every detail of Mr. Businelle's problems, however. The Web site contains just a few of the cardiac-arrest episodes, for instance, and it doesn't mention one doctor's early prognosis that Mr. Businelle's chance for recovery was just one in 20. "I don't think we ever knowingly deceived anybody," Mr. Sherwood says. "We did at times omit certain information we felt would cause too much of a panic."


On June 9, Mrs. Businelle began her dispatch by writing:


"Big steps today. The medicine wore off enough this morning for Greg to start questioning what was going on. He is not able to speak, but he can communicate by nods and blinking his eyes. He did want to know what was happening and more about his condition. I explained where he was and what all the machines were that are in his room. He would listen and look around and nod that he understood."


After he regained consciousness, she began staying at the hospital until 1 or 2 a.m. Writing the summaries became more difficult. Already, she was trying to keep up with her job as a software programmer by working on a laptop when she found time at the hospital. But she made daily contributions to the Web site for weeks. "I really felt obligated to put it out there because I knew the number of people praying for Greg was so great," she says.


By the end of June, Mr. Businelle was sitting up in a wheelchair and beginning physical therapy. He was moved to a rehabilitation hospital across the street. His ability to communicate improved, and doctors slowly told him the extent of his injuries. The spinal damage had paralyzed his legs and arms. In her message on June 25, Mrs. Businelle wrote, "When Greg and I pray together, he always asks to pray that he will walk again; so, I pass this on to all of you."


By now, the Web site was being read not just by friends and relatives, but by acquaintances, friends of friends and even strangers. "It was an official voice so you didn't have multiple people trying to disseminate information, all with slight variations," Mr. Sherwood says. "It also became a community for Greg and Jill."


Mr. Goff gave out the Web site's address from the pulpit at his church. Over the following weeks, several of his parishioners said they'd been keeping up with Mr. Businelle's condition, and some contacted Mrs. Businelle by e-mail. On a Sunday when he didn't read the site before church, he says, "People told me things that I wasn't even aware of."


Wayne Berger, a Denver businessman who once employed Messrs. Businelle and Sherwood, flew to Houston shortly after the accident to visit the hospital. When he returned home, he logged onto the site every day. "It was difficult to read on many days," he says. But, he adds, "I was thankful I didn't have to bother Jill."


Kenda Bremer, a nurse in Sedalia, Mo., began looking at the Web site after her son, who attends the Businelles' church, told her about it. She began sending e-mail to Mrs. Businelle every few days, offering encouragement about medical procedures she knew. She also told about the pain she experienced a year earlier when her son lost his sight from an illness. "It's such a difficult time when you're in the hospital with someone you love," Mrs. Bremer says. "Sometimes, survival was just knowing there were people backing you and that you weren't just fighting this battle by yourself."


On July 22, Mrs. Businelle reported on the Web site that her husband no longer needed kidney dialysis. One hurdle remained: an evaluation by a neurosurgeon to confirm that his spine and neck had healed and could support the weight of his head. If not, they feared, surgery might be needed.


On Aug. 4, Mrs. Businelle began her summary by writing:


"Prayers were answered today, NO SURGERY!! The neurosurgeon examined Greg's vertebra under x-ray while he was moving his head and there is no risk of pressure on the spinal cord. The vertebra stayed in alignment and the ligaments are strong enough to support and move his head. What a miracle!!"


Mr. Businelle soon moved to a rehabilitation institute, where he was taken off the tracheotomy vent and the hole in his throat was closed. Gradually, he began to dictate responses to the e-mails that continued to roll in. The mother of one of Mr. Businelle's friends wrote that she had started going to church again after following his recovery online.


In time, Mr. Businelle read the daily summaries, learning about the 54 days he was comatose. "Then I understood the gravity of what Jill and Chip had done," he says.


On Labor Day, Mr. Businelle went home. The couple then used the Web site to notify friends of a golf tournament organized by friends to help offset their medical bills. But for weeks, the most recent summary of his condition was dated Sept. 10, and Mrs. Businelle says some people sent notes "slapping our hands for not telling them what's going on."


The couple plan to use the Web site to chronicle Mr. Businelle's ongoing rehabilitation. "I'm still a quadriplegic, and I'm still needing help," Mr. Businelle says. "I don't want people to quit praying."


Doctors told him that it would be two years before he regains the most control of his body that his injury will allow. During that time, Mr. Businelle believes, new therapeutic techniques and medical innovations may come along that other quadriplegic people may not know about.


"If I get something back, it may be because of some new technology," he says. "If we write about it, then some other quad may read it and check into it."


Mr. Ramstad is a staff reporter in The Wall Street Journal's Dallas bureau.



Family Ties

Percentage of e-mail users who:


Have an e-mail group list for family or friends: 54%


Say e-mail has brought them closer to their families: 40%


Have started e-mailing a family member whom they did not keep up with very much before: 31%


Have learned more about their families because of e-mail: 25%


Source: Pew Research Center













FORTY

How Technology Has Changed the Way We . . . Attend Church


BY PATRICIA DAVIS



November 13, 2000



When I was a kid in the 1950s and early '60s, going to church wasn't an easy thing for me. It was yet another morning, besides the five during the school week, when I had to get dressed up and sit through something that I didn't really understand. My recollection is of hymns that were difficult to follow, tunes that weren't very catchy. And the sermons, which I tried to be attentive to, at times seemed like something to just sit through. I even lived in fear of dropping the offering plate as it was passed. I confess, about the only high point for me on some of those Sunday mornings was breakfast at the Parkway Diner after the service. How things have changed.









These days dress is casual at many churches, including Ginghamsburg Church, a United Methodist church in Tipp City, Ohio, north of Dayton. Even Pastor Michael Slaughter delivers sermons in blue jeans or khakis. Attendees have been known to eat food or even munch on popcorn while watching mini-dramas, custom videos and clips from secular films like "The Matrix," starring Keanu Reeves, to illustrate a point in the sermon.


More important, churches like Ginghamsburg are using a host of technologies to make the word of God more user-friendly for 21st-century worshippers. Many churches have Web sites for general information and prayer requests, computers, e-mail and improved sound equipment. Ginghamsburg goes even further by embracing technology as a critical part of its worship, enhancing storytelling and extending its reach beyond Tipp City.


"I am really a person of my culture," says Pastor Slaughter, who considers the use of screens like the one in Ginghamsburg's auditorium useful. "To me, the screen for the 21st-century church is what stained glass was to communicate the biblical story in living color."


Adds church member Andrea Breault: "With all the high-tech stuff, you don't want to miss out." She describes the entire service as "a work of art."


But change isn't always easy. Ginghamsburg had about 1,200 attendees on weekends when it introduced multimedia five years ago. About 200 of them left because they wanted something more traditional.


Since then, weekend church attendance has climbed to about 3,000. A majority of new members hadn't established a church connection in their adult years.


Here's a look at how technology is changing the way Ginghamsburg's members worship.


Let Us Pray, Watch Movies and Listen to a Killer Band

Ginghamsburg Church joined what Pastor Slaughter calls the Media Reformation with two cameras for live projection, some graphics and video. Now, about 10 people, including staffers and volunteers, pull together an extravaganza using four cameras, video, graphics and, occasionally, animation for the four weekend services, which each run just under an hour.


"It is like 'Star Wars,' " remarked one visitor of the entire worship experience.


A recent service about discipline featured videos of a physician, a gymnast, a professional musician, and the pastor and his wife talking about their past marriage woes. Interviews are edited to about two or three minutes. When media staffers visit other cities, they sometimes record on-the-street interviews and incorporate them in services back home.


In Las Vegas, passersby were asked, "What is Heaven?" In San Francisco, the question "What scares you?" evoked fears about drugs, violence and health issues like AIDS.


The service is punctuated by music from a group that church member Scott Parsons describes as "a better band than you could hear in any bar in Dayton." The sound system is state-of-the-art. For group singing, lyrics appear on the screen on the stage. The stage takes the place of an altar at Ginghamsburg. And instead of pews, movable chairs and sometimes tables are in the auditorium, which fits about 1,500 people. Other sections of the building have monitors so people can see the service if they aren't in the main room.


Web Worship

Ginghamsburg Church's Web site, www.Ginghamsburg.org, which debuted in 1997, has well over 2,000 pages now. Among the most-visited sections are the pastor's biography and the ministries section, according to Mark Stephenson, a paid part-time worker at the church who is director of CyberMinistry, the church's Internet activities. He came up with the idea for the site, which is growing by more than a page a day. Each Sunday's sermon is typically on the site in streaming-video format by evening. It takes longer to transcribe and build pages, so the print version is posted about a month later.


Member Bruce McIver, who has been deployed in Korea, Italy and Saudi Arabia with the U.S. Air Force, is able to listen to or read the sermons when he logs on—no matter where he is. "It is real nice to be able to go online to feel like you are there," he says, "even though you are a long way away."


Ms. Breault, another church member, downloads and prints some of the particularly memorable sermons or those she missed and keeps them in her briefcase. About two dozen were filed in her briefcase for her to take on a recent business trip. "This is my plane reading," she says. Ms. Breault also alerts her family in New York to sermons on the site that they might enjoy listening to or reading.


There are 800 to 1,000 sermon viewings on the site each week, some by people or churches in 40 countries. "There are no media of any sort that could reach those people," says Mr. Stephenson. "Nobody could afford to broadcast in all those countries." He says he recently answered questions from a church in Florida about streaming video and hardware, in keeping with part of Ginghamsburg's mission as a teaching church. It costs less than $1,500 a year to keep the Web site going. "It turns out we can host our site for an entire year more cheaply than a single mailing of brochures to our mailing list," Mr. Stephenson says.


He says the Web site is planned to the year 2005. Future additions may include a virtual tour of the church, and a children's section where youngsters can enter an online Bible Land and learn about biblical characters. The youth want a Meet the Bands section, to follow the activities of Christian bands that play at the church.


MTV Generation

To attract young people, who tend to get their information from visual and audio sources, Pastor Slaughter feels the use of multimedia is critical. In his book, "Out on the Edge: A Wake-Up Call for Church Leaders on the Edge of the Media Reformation," he writes: "Electronic media are a life or death issue for the Church because electronic media are the language of our culture."


Before their Sunday classes begin, children play games—computer or board—for 15 minutes. A band also plays for the classes. Adobe Photoshop and Microsoft PowerPoint are used for class presentations and to display song lyrics. Recently, a teenage member dressed up as the biblical figure Esther and told her story in a video presentation.


Man Cannot Live by Glitz Alone

While the services entertain, members are expected to participate in other activities. Some use their skills to volunteer for various tech functions at the church. To bring the experience down to a more personal level, there are about 240 smaller groups, each with 12 to 20 members who typically meet twice a month to discuss Bible lessons or subjects like divorce and women's issues.


These groups are where Ginghamsburg becomes more low-key. "High tech does not satisfy the inner person," says church member Dan Glover, who oversees the small group ministries. "It is just the thing that we see. It is fun to watch." E-mail helps Mr. Glover stay in touch with the 10 to 15 team pastors, who each assist about five of the pastors who run the small member groups. There are also online forums for members and people outside the church dealing with topics ranging from parenting to home schooling.


Still, to some life at Ginghamsburg is too high-tech. Newcomers, Mr. Glover says, are "totally overwhelmed in a good way, and then they go, 'Can we come back?' or they are totally overwhelmed in a good way and say, 'I don't think I can keep up with that pace.' They appreciate it. They just go back to their other church."


Ms. Davis is a reporting assistant in The Wall Street Journal's Pittsburgh bureau.













FORTY-ONE

How Technology Has Changed the Way We . . . Relate to Our Spouses


BY BILL RICHARDS



November 13, 2000



Seven months ago, Laurel Factor and Adam Klein began their cyber love story.









Ms. Factor, who is 32 years old and then lived on Long Island, N.Y., placed an ad in the Yahoo! personals, describing herself as a "witty, pretty red-head." Mr. Klein, who is 31 years old and also lives on Long Island, was intrigued. They exchanged e-mails, and then cell-phone calls. On their first cyber-date, they talked online for over an hour, and they met face-to-face two weeks later for sodas and french fries.


Then Ms. Factor got a job as a marketing executive and moved to Boston. Mr. Klein wasn't happy, but the pair traded e-mails every day. "If I'm upset or happy, I share it with him right away," Ms. Factor says. To celebrate their six-month anniversary, Mr. Klein, who is executive director of Let's Talk Business, a New York-based online support network for entrepreneurs, set up a Web site for Ms. Factor and sent her the address attached to a bouquet of roses.


But when Mr. Klein decided to propose last month, he did it in person. He invited Ms. Factor, who was home on Long Island for Rosh Hashana, to go on a picnic. He made sandwiches and baked cookies. And when the moment came, he got down on his right knee and popped the question. She accepted. They're getting married next October.


Despite their techno-romance, Mr. Klein says he never considered e-mailing his marriage proposal. "I don't know women that well," he says, "but I did know she wanted to be proposed to the old-fashioned way."


Mr. Klein and Ms. Factor's courtship raises a very contemporary question: Does the blizzard of communications gadgetry around us—cell phones, faxes, laptops, pagers, e-mail—bring couples closer together? Or does it add an electronic buffer that pushes couples apart?


It is a question that is cropping up more and more these days. As increasing numbers of people turn to the Internet as their primary communications vehicle, researchers are beginning to look at both the positive and negative impact of the Web on relationships.


A recent study on the Internet and American Life by the Pew Research Center showed 59% of those using the Internet felt they communicated more with family and friends by using e-correspondence. But most of the communication was what the Pew researchers call "info-nuggets"—light chit-chat and gossip. Nearly 40% of the e-mailers said they thought e-mail was too impersonal to use to share more sensitive matters, Pew said.


Ms. Factor says she is of mixed mind over technology's impact on her relationship with Mr. Klein. E-mail, she says, lacks both the emotion and context of face-to-face communication. She and Mr. Klein, she says, have had arguments because one or the other misunderstood an electronic message.


On the other hand, e-mail has been the underpinning of their long-distance courtship, she admits. "Without technology," she says, "the relationship would have been very difficult."


She and Mr. Klein are among the lucky ones. Richard Geist, a psychologist who practices in Newton, Mass., says technology has become a familiar culprit in faltering relationships. One big reason: Technology operates at a much faster pace than the more leisurely time frame around most relationships. "When you are online, everything speeds up," he says. "It's pushing people to want that instant gratification. Relationships still take time to build, and that runs counter to the concept of Internet time."


Also worrisome, says David Greenfield, a psychologist and author of "Virtual Addiction," is the ability of electronics to isolate partners from each other. Dr. Greenfield says he gets one or two e-mails a week from couples who are having problems because one or the other is spending too much time on the Internet or playing video games.


"There are people who are losing their spouses and becoming cyber-widows and -widowers," Dr. Greenfield says. As e-mail or video games eat up more time, relationships slide, he says. "At some point at least one partner realizes they're not communicating anymore."


Last year, Dr. Greenfield surveyed 18,000 Web users on ABCnews.com. Nearly 30% said that using the Internet tended to relieve the stress or moodiness that was part of their real-life surroundings. For some people, he says, just opening e-mail messages stimulates a neurochemical pleasure, the same kind of pleasure that comes with pulling the handle on a slot machine or opening Christmas presents.


"They get a dopamine hit," he says. "It's a very potent and pleasurable stimulation."


That kind of reaction can pull people away from real life, Dr. Greenfield says. More than 5% of those Web users who were surveyed met the criteria to classify them as seriously compulsive. And of that group, nearly three-quarters said they experienced intense intimacy with other Web users, while nearly all said they lost track of time while on the Net.


"Is it good for our society to be so wrapped up in technology?" Dr. Greenfield says. "Is it healthy to be able to pick up your cell phone and say hello to someone in China but not be able to communicate with someone next door?"


Others say that while electronic devices may play a major part in their day-to-day lives, they have learned how to control them. Sanford Cohen, who runs Savos Inc., a wireless-communications company in New York, says he usually carries a cell phone, two-way pager and Palm Pilot.


"I'm a walking office," Mr. Cohen says. Ironically, he says, while all that communications gear provides huge amounts of flexibility, it can also interfere when you are trying to communicate face to face.


"It can get in the way if you let it," says Mr. Cohen. The simple solution, he suggests: "Turn it off when you don't want it."


Mr. Cohen says that in some ways his electronic gear keeps him in closer touch with his wife, Holly, a psychiatrist who carries her own cell phone and Palm Pilot. They exchange e-mails and cell-phone messages five or six times a day, he says, discussing their children, their schedules and what they are doing—what Mr. Cohen calls "the business of life."


But does all that gear enhance or divert from personal closeness? "It does allow you to have conversations you might not have time to get to otherwise," Mr. Cohen says. "It could go either way, and probably does at different times."


Modern communications technology isn't really designed for group participation, says Jack Whalen, a sociologist and principal scientist at Xerox Palo Alto Research Center in California. "The whole technology tends to be built around the individual user at their terminal or phone," says Dr. Whalen, who studies how people interact with technology.


That often produces a paradoxical outcome: The same equipment designed to link people together electronically can end up isolating them from their real-life surroundings. Dr. Whalen cites as an example a researcher at Xerox PARC who was studying how some online communities diverge from reality and toward fantasy. "She ended up spending so much time on the Web studying and discussing the subject that her marriage broke up," he says.


This isolation, researchers are finding, has both positive and negative aspects. The Pew Research Center study found that almost a third of those who used e-mail to converse with family and friends found it easier to say frank or unpleasant things electronically than in person. At the same time, another study by the Center for Online Addiction, in Bradford, Pa., says the isolation afforded by electronic communication can lead to marital discord, separation and even divorce.


Historically, society has struggled with how to integrate advances in communication, from the invention of television all the way back to the printing press. When the telephone was invented, Xerox PARC's Dr. Whalen says, most people saw it as a business tool, not a device for social communication. Once the transition to everyday social use took hold, however, society adapted rapidly, he says.


So, too, is adaptation taking hold with more modern devices today. Andrew Ellenberg, head of Project 518.com, a New York-based company that advises and manages early-stage Internet start-ups, carries two cell phones. Mr. Ellenberg says his fiancée, Kelley Byrne, would grumble when their cell-phone conversations were interrupted by the beep of incoming business calls.


"She knew it was pulling me into cyberspace," Mr. Ellenberg says. He adapted, learning to separate his business and social calls. "I chose the real woman as opposed to the machine," he says.


But Mr. Ellenberg, who works with Ms. Byrne, says they still find themselves sending e-mail back and forth while they are sitting in the same room. "Sometimes it's easier than having a real conversation," he says. "Then we realize how ridiculous it is and we go over and talk."


Mr. Ellenberg says he and Ms. Byrne vie to get the newest communications gadget. "If I have a Webenabled Palm Pilot and she doesn't, then we can't communicate," he says. "If she can get stock quotes on her mobile phone, I have to have a mobile just to keep up."


He calls it "technology envy."


This struggle to come to grips with technology often can be puzzling for couples, says Robert Billingham, a therapist and professor of human development and family studies at Indiana University.


In the past, he says, television gave rise to "cocooning," a buzzword that meant cutting off families from their surroundings. "The difference between television and the new technology," he says, "is that the cell phone and the computer literally isolate you from the person right next to you."


Indeed, Dr. Billingham says some of his students use their cell phones to discourage interaction. "If they're in an embarrassing situation they'll sometimes pull out their cell phone and pretend they're talking to someone who doesn't exist," he says.


Kimberly Young, the executive director of the Center for Online Addiction, says couples who used to come to her for counseling, saying their spouse was a workaholic, now cite the Internet as the reason for the breakdown of their marriage. "I see lots of people who become slaves to technology," Dr. Young says.


Dr. Young says there have been several cases around the U.S. in which courts awarded a husband or wife child custody because the other spouse was addicted to the Internet. The Web, Dr. Young says, can be both the cause and the result of marriage problems. "In cases where the marriage already is having problems, it can be the outlet for one spouse to escape," she says. The Web can also seduce one partner away from a healthy relationship, she adds.


Last August, Dr. Young told a meeting of the American Psychological Association that data from interviews with 1,300 people who were treated at her center suggest that too much electronic communication can lead to marital discord, separation, and sometimes divorce. In a separate study of 396 Internet addicts, Dr. Young found that 53% reported serious problems with their spouse or relationship partner. The most common cause was sexual relationships initiated as a result of online conversations, she said.


Dr. Young's finding supports anecdotal reports by the American Academy of Matrimonial Lawyers, a Chicago-based group, that in growing numbers of divorce cases spouses are suing because their partner found another man or woman while on the Internet.


For couples, Dr. Young says, heavy Internet use usually works to the benefit of the relationship only when the partners are too far apart to physically meet and they use the Web to maintain contact. "Otherwise," Dr. Young says, "it hurts couples."


Others disagree. Steven Jones, a professor of communications at the University of Illinois in Chicago, says the vast majority of those using the Web use it to maintain contacts with family and loved ones. Dr. Jones, president of the Association of Internet Researchers, says some Web users are cutting back on solo activities such as watching television to spend time chatting on the Internet.


Indeed, Dr. Jones says the whole idea of proximity may just be overrated when it comes to couples. "I could be fairly easily convinced there could be too much of a good thing," he says. Sending e-mails to a partner during the day, or calling on a cell phone, often does away with routine communication and provides more time for quality conversation when a couple does get together, he says.


All this back-and-forth may not matter very much when you are in love, as with Mr. Klein and Ms. Factor. Still, Ms. Factor confesses that when she opened Mr. Klein's Web-site gift, she was a bit hesitant, fearing it might contain a cyberproposal. It didn't; it contained a love poem from Mr. Klein instead.


Ms. Factor says she is delighted that Mr. Klein chose instead to pop the question the traditional way. "If he had done it by e-mail," she says, "I would have killed him."


Mr. Richards is a writer in the Seattle area.













FORTY-TWO

How Technology Has Changed the Way We . . . Take Vacations


BY CHRISTINA BINKLEY



November 13, 2000



Technology is changing the way we take our vacations. We log on to Travelocity to make hotel and plane reservations, check Fodors online for local restaurant reviews and lug our laptops to the beach. A host of other tech-related services and gimmicks are making an appearance with hotel chains and airlines. Already, your favorite resort can offer you a somewhat different experience. . . .









LA LA LAND—Welcome guests. Thank you for planning your vacation with us in this digital age. Your suitcase is loaded with the family Web cam, beepers, personal digital assistants, cell phones and laptop. Because that precious load weighs in at 33 pounds, you've wisely FedExed your clothes ahead to our newest deluxe resort.


You printed out your flight's boarding passes at home. Your Palm Pilot will confirm your gate. Be sure to seat the kids together, where they may be able to confer in relative isolation over the in-flight digital television that we're testing on some flights.


Upon your arrival, you may check some of your equipment directly through to the resort at our airport kiosk. Still, you will want to reserve time to fiddle with your rental car's global positioning system —only $5.95 a day. You'll make up the time when we check you in curbside using a handheld infrared encoder that will read your credit card and cut your room key.


We see you'll be residing with us for a whole week—a mighty long stay for most time-poor vacationers these days.


Your room will be available just as soon as the housekeeper reinserts its number in the inventory file with her prototype handheld computer—just 23 minutes after the last folks checked out. That convenience may allow the resort to offer you a late 4 p.m. checkout time when you depart.


Meanwhile, your electronic guest history tells us the kind of pillow you want—allergic to feathers, are you? (You may also receive an offer of a discount on your favorite brand of soda in the minibar—check the tiny screen by the handle.)


Each member of your party will receive a smart card, embedded with a computer chip that will unlock your room and enable your 16-year-old daughter's unsupervised spree in the gift shop. It will also notify the maid of your presence, so she won't disturb you with a knock at the door.


Upon reaching your room, please take time to familiarize yourself with the resort's surf-ready artificial wave pool and IMAX theater on your television's closed-circuit channel. That way you needn't bother the concierge.


Using the TV, you may sign up for reiki treatments to stroke your aura and a paraffin pedicure at our spa or to make reservations at our restaurant. Your children will love the Nintendo—eliminating the cost of a whole afternoon in our Kids Club.


And why hike outside in the heat? Our gym is equipped with all the latest toys to measure your heart rate, estimate your body fat and entertain you with the latest market activity on CNBC.


We have a staff member to help you connect your laptop to our high-speed Internet access. Confidentially, we don't recommend the wireless remote Internet access that is available on your room's television—it is slow and, er, inconvenient.


Go relax! Fear not to loaf amid the spa's Stone Age herbal treatments—the hotel operator will beep you if the office calls. And our beach-side concierge will be happy to fax your documents anywhere in the world.


She can also sell you a timeshare or even book your next ski vacation while you stand there in your Speedo. Be sure to ask about our new global-positioning-system ski trackers. Worn on your wrist, they'll print out your course and speed when you return to the lodge.


Or book a cruise. The ships have wireless telephones—no more annoying ship-to-shore calls to the office.


When you arrive for your tee time tomorrow at 5:30 a.m., be sure to request one of the carts with the little electronic map that divulges the secrets of each hole. It will suggest the best-suited iron and the optimum trajectory for your ball. You may tally your really excellent scores using the small keyboard. Most people wish also to maintain their paper scorecard as a keepsake.


We will provide you with a snazzy pager for the use of your 11-year-old in the Kids Club. He will beep you periodically to be retrieved from a "boring" tour of the chef's vegetable garden and to use that smart room key the way his sister did.


Avoid queues at our theme park by scheduling a thrill ride in advance. An electronic card will serve as your ticket. Only one ride at a time, please, leaving plenty of free time in between for our shops and restaurants.


Later, over dinner, the resort can help you check on your son's baby-sitter with your Web cam—the same one you'll be using in that conference call in the morning.


If you happen to need any spare equipment, we have "partnered" with several firms in the area that will do their best to help you.


Or, if you're like most vacationers these days, you'll leave most of that junk behind and try to take a real holiday—albeit shorter than the ones you recall from your childhood.


But don't forget to check your e-mail.


Ms. Binkley is a staff reporter in The Wall Street Journal's Los Angeles bureau.













FORTY-THREE

How Technology Has Changed the Way We . . . Have Babies


BY MARCELO PRINCE



November 13, 2000



The first time Mark Sims found his newborn daughter, Molly, in the intensive-care unit this February, all he could see was a tiny foot sticking out from under a pile of blankets. So he tickled her foot.









And Molly did something extraordinary—she jerked it back.


It seems unremarkable until you find out that four months earlier, Mr. Sims and his wife, Christa, learned the child they were expecting suffered from spina bifida, a birth defect that often causes paralysis of the lower limbs. Desperate—but committed to having the baby—the Rainsville, Ala., couple turned to an experimental procedure in which surgeons open the womb, operate on the fetus and then place it back inside to continue the pregnancy.


Surgeons successfully grafted a piece of skin to cover the baby's exposed spinal column. Now Molly is nine months old. And the effects of the disease have so far been greatly diminished.


The Simses' story highlights just how much science and technology have reshaped having a baby. For much of this century, obstetrics was seen as a backwater of medicine. Then, beginning in the 1960s, technology began to make its way into the field. Doctors began to use ultrasound—the same technology used to find submarines in World War II—to examine babies in the womb. In the 1970s, genetic gymnastics let infertile couples conceive.


In the intervening decades, there have been numerous other tests and treatments for unborn children, most recently fetal surgeries and genetic therapies, which have left obstetricians testing the limits and ethics of their field. And, in the past few years, parents have started using technology themselves, getting information and support from the Internet—even broadcasting births online.


"From conception all the way through birth and then survival after birth, it's hard to find an area where technology hasn't had an impact," says Donald R. Mattison, medical director of the March of Dimes, the White Plains, N.Y., charity. "You might even argue the process of reproduction, as fundamental as it is, has become technology-laden over the past several decades."


Technology has plenty left to solve, of course. The rate of premature delivery (37 weeks or earlier) has steadily risen over the past 10 years and is now nearly 12%. Despite cutting-edge prenatal diagnoses and great strides in salvaging smaller babies, "we still haven't made a whole hell of a lot of progress in preventing those premature births," says Richard Schwarz, chairman of obstetrics and gynecology at New York Methodist Hospital. Adds Dr. Mattison, "It's a shame on the nation that we are so good at so many things and our ability to understand the causes of and prevent prematurity are so meager."


Technology even creates a few new problems of its own. "It's a blessing and it's a curse," says Gayle Peterson, a family therapist in Berkeley, Calif., and author of books on family health. She notes that new technology often leaves couples facing decisions for which they are not emotionally prepared, such as deciding whether to have multiple births or selectively abort when several implanted eggs are fertilized.


Technological advances also have created unrealistic expectations among many parents. "Women expect a perfect baby all the time," says Patricia Dunn, an industry consultant and former neonatal nurse. "That's something we can't guarantee, even with the best technology."


John Repke, chairman of obstetrics and gynecology at the University of Nebraska Medical Center in Omaha, agrees. "We've reduced maternal and infant mortality to such a low degree that an adverse outcome becomes so rare, people really have a difficult time accepting this is still part of the human condition," he says.


With that caveat, here's a look at some cutting-edge developments that are changing pregnancy in America.


The area that has captured the most interest in recent years has been prenatal screening, which involves testing fetal cells, amniotic fluid or placental tissue to detect fetal abnormalities.


Currently, diseases transmitted as single-gene defects, such as cystic fibrosis, sickle-cell anemia and Tay-Sachs disease, can be diagnosed early in pregnancy. Screening tests also exist for Down syndrome, a common chromosomal disorder, and propensity for breast cancer.


Still, "for most genetic disorders, the only way to know if you are at risk is if you've had the tragedy of having a child" that is affected, says Mark Evans, chairman of obstetrics and gynecology at Hutzel Hospital in Detroit.


But the mapping of the human genome, completed this summer, promises to change that, opening the door for early diagnosis of thousands of genetic or chromosomal disorders—from mental disorders to inherited heart disease. These tests don't even have to come during the pregnancy itself; parents can be tested before they conceive to see what diseases they are likely to pass along.


Moreover, experts say large-scale testing in the U.S. isn't far off, as information about the genome is collected and disseminated. "There is a very high likelihood that by next year we'll see cystic-fibrosis screening being offered for all pregnancies in the first or second trimester," says Sherman Elias, chairman of obstetrics and gynecology at the University of Illinois at Chicago.


The tests themselves may also be made easier on the mother. Researchers are currently working on technology that would make it possible to collect the genetic fetal material for these tests from simple blood samples rather than today's invasive techniques—usually inserting a needle to collect amniotic fluid (amniocentesis) or placental tissue (chorionic villous sampling).The new technique involves isolating fetal cells that have been found to float in the mother's blood.


However, advances in genetic testing have raised serious ethical questions. The far-off fear, of course, is genetic engineering—the creating of "designer babies"—and what it means for society. But in the meantime there are practical concerns. For one, the ability to screen for diseases has far outpaced medicine's ability to treat these conditions, leading to difficult choices. Will a fetus found to have a breast-cancer gene be aborted because there's a chance it will develop that disease later in life? And if it is born, will it be denied health insurance? Those difficulties are compounded when you consider that these tests only indicate risk, and don't indicate whether an individual will actually come down with a disease.


There are other concerns, such as cost. The tests can run from a few hundred to several thousand dollars, and may not be available to people in poor areas.


"Genetics is growing by leaps and bounds, growing faster than our ability to think about the moral issues raised," says Dr. Mattison, echoing a sentiment raised by leading bioethicists.


The advances in genetics and screening are also driving demand for prenatal therapies and treatments, such as in utero surgery. Both critics and advocates agree that such surgery, which often results in premature delivery, is risky and should be reserved for the sickest of the sick.


In this procedure, doctors make an incision in the woman's abdomen, remove the uterus and place it on her torso. They then drain the amniotic fluid and operate on the fetus. When the procedure is complete, surgeons replace the baby in the womb, and the child is delivered some weeks later by cesarean section.


Surgeons at just three U.S. medical centers regularly perform invasive fetal surgery. Doctors at the University of California at San Francisco and Children's Hospital of Philadelphia have used the procedure to correct a handful of rare, lethal disorders, removing fetal lung tumors, repairing herniated diaphragms and clearing urinary obstructions. And, for the past three years, teams at Children's and at Vanderbilt University Hospital in Nashville have been performing open fetal surgery to decrease the handicaps caused by nonlethal neural-tube defects, such as spina bifida.


Invasive fetal surgery was pioneered by Michael Harrison, the director of the Fetal Treatment Center at UCSF, who used it in 1989 to correct congenital diaphragmatic hernia, a condition in which organs slip through a hole in the fetal diaphragm, crowding the lungs and stunting their growth.


But the future of prenatal surgery may lie in minimally invasive techniques. In the past five years, Dr. Harrison and others have experimented with such procedures using new endoscopic tools and techniques.


N. Scott Adzick, director of the Center for Fetal Diagnosis and Treatment at Children's, says he and others are now working on optical and navigation devices that would make it possible to operate earlier in pregnancy. Joseph Bruner, director of fetal diagnosis and therapy at Vanderbilt, says new robotic endoscopic machines with foot pedals, joysticks and 3-D imaging promise to improve outcomes.


"We're probably on the threshold here where those with spina bifida will no longer be treated by doing open-surgery techniques," he says.


Although the potential to treat and possibly correct disorders early in pregnancy is an area that holds much promise, these minimally invasive procedures are still rare and largely unproven. A nationwide clinical trial is expected to get under way next year to determine the efficacy and long-term outcome of these procedures.


Ultrasound, which uses sound waves to create images of fetal organs, has helped doctors observe fetal development and diagnose abnormalities since the 1960s. Over the years, faster microchips and better software have led to enhanced sonography, including higher resolution and introduction of color images that show the direction of blood flow. These improvements allow doctors to make diagnoses earlier and with greater confidence, says Lawrence Platt, chief of obstetrics and gynecology at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. Although not required, ultrasound is considered safe and used in roughly 80% of pregnancies.


More recently, 3-D ultrasound, which provides renderings of the fetal surface and structures, has come on the scene. Its proponents say it assists in detecting certain conditions, including cleft lip and palate, brain malformations and skeletal disorders. Sue Moore, a perinatologist at St. Anthony's Medical Center in St. Louis, says the 3-D machine may also prove helpful in examining the placental surface. But regular ultrasound remains the standard of care, and some maintain it's not clear that the clinical benefits of 3-D are commensurate with the higher cost.


There are other drawbacks, critics say. For one thing, the 3-D procedure takes much longer than a simple 2-D rendering, and fetal motion will blur the pictures. There's also a learning curve—interpreting the 3-D images is a different skill than reading the flat pictures.


One of the biggest challenges facing obstetricians is knowing whether there's a problem with the fetus during labor. Since the early 1970s, doctors have relied principally on electronic fetal monitoring to measure fetal heart rate by placing electrodes on a woman's abdomen.


Frank Boehm, an obstetrician at Vanderbilt, says that in about one-third of all labors, doctors encounter a "nonreassuring fetal heart rate" and must decide whether it signals fetal distress. In many cases, physicians choose to perform cesarean sections that later prove unnecessary rather than take a chance, Dr. Boehm says.


But a new device, called a fetal-pulse oximeter, might eliminate much of that uncertainty. It lets doctors directly measure the oxygen saturation of the fetus by placing a soft sensor against its cheek.


In clinical trials that Dr. Boehm and others performed, the device reduced the number of c-sections by half. The device was cleared by the FDA in May, but is still only sporadically available. Critics say its utility remains to be seen, and some doctors say they would rather trust their instincts and perform a c-section than rely solely on a new machine. "It's got some worthwhile attributes, but does it offer anything truly advantageous [compared with existing monitoring]?" asks Dr. Repke of the University of Nebraska.


Technology doesn't just affect pregnancies in the doctor's office or delivery room. Over the past few years, the Internet has had a tremendous impact on the childbearing process—how patients relate to their doctors. Armed with printouts from online medical textbooks and recent drug-study results, patients are discussing these new technologies with their physicians.


Many outfits, including iVillage.com Inc., New York; and Women.com Networks Inc., San Mateo, Calif., have sites tailored to pregnant women or new mothers. They offer everything from chat sessions on postpartum depression to child-cost calculators; from online week-by-week journals to baby-name lists.


"Without the Internet, it was almost impossible to find someone else who was due the same week as you" to share experiences and get advice, says Nancy Price, an at-home mother who's expecting a fourth child and is president of Myria Media Inc., which operates several parenting sites, including ePregnancy.com.


The Web is not just a resource, but a tool. Some couples are using the Internet to broadcast videos of their birth; others are sending e-mail updates to family members from laptops in delivery rooms. Then there are technophile parents using services like babypressconference.com, which lets new parents host real-time videos from hospitals at no charge, or creating personal Web sites to announce births. Take Brad Sinrod, founder of IPO.com Inc., New York; and his wife, Lauren, who had a Web site up within a day of the birth of their daughter, Emily, and included the address in their mailings.


"It's a wonderful opportunity for bonding," says Ms. Peterson, the therapist who also dispenses advice online. People are getting a lot of information on the Internet and support from others in similar situations, she adds. "But you cannot let a cyber-relationship compete [with] or replace real face-to-face relationships."


And, indeed, with all the technology out there, science hasn't touched every aspect of childbearing just yet. The majority of the nearly four million annual births in the U.S. are uncomplicated, and are unlikely to see much technology beyond a routine ultrasound.


"The actual act of giving birth hasn't changed all that much," says Karen Leinhauser of Narberth, Pa., who is pregnant for the 10th time. She has had five children and four miscarriages. "It's still painful, still hard work, and the outcome is still beautifully unimaginable."


Mr. Prince is a reporter for Dow Jones Newswires in New York.













FORTY-FOUR

How Technology Has Changed the Way We . . . Are Fans


BY ROBERT J. TOTH



November 13, 2000



For as long as I can remember, I have been a fan.


A fan of what isn't important. The issue is how. Most people enjoy books, movies, music and so forth in the course of their lives. But I have made the course of my life enjoying books, movies, music and so forth. I have paid more than $100 for a single compact disk. I have stood outside movie theaters for six hours in heavy rain and bitter cold. When I woke up at 3 a.m. one morning to find my apartment filled with smoke, the only thing I grabbed on my way to the fire escape was a paperback that had been out of print for 40 years. I don't recall putting on shoes.









I wasn't alone in that life, but I never knew it. If you liked something so big that it had an organized fan base—"Star Trek," say, or the Beatles—there was a network of people to turn to. Otherwise, there was simply no public venue for your enthusiasm. You couldn't go someplace to check if anybody else shared your devotion to, say, the Little River Band or Gerry Rafferty. Once in a great while, you might flip to the back pages of a record-collector magazine and find a half-inch blurb for a convention at the Sioux City Days Inn, or subscription information for a newsletter some guy ran off on the mimeograph machine at his mother's office. Apart from that, you found a couple of friends who would put up with your ranting about the infamous "lost" Steely Dan song "Second Arrangement," and that was that.


After a few years, that kind of life will bring on some serious four-o'clock-in-the-morning questions. Why do you care so much? Why can't you just read a book or listen to a record and let it go? Without the assurance that somebody else is just as crazy as you are, you start to visualize the years ahead with mounting horror: pawing through used bookstores; haunting record shops on Tuesdays, waiting for the new releases; deconstructing "The Wreck of the Edmund Fitzgerald" to the delight of none.


Then the Internet turned everything upside down. Or, rather, inside out.


Simply put, the private world of the enthusiast—which is to say, nuts like me—is now public. The Internet offered fans the forum they never had, and they jumped at the chance to thrust their obsessions out into the world. Ambitious heads set up newsgroups, mailing lists and Web sites to create a central clearinghouse for information and to connect with other people who share their passions. It's the ultimate validation of obsessive fandom: Go online and you'll find that not only are you not alone, you're jammed cheek to jowl with other people who know all the words to the "Land of the Lost" theme song and won't rest until they can do a little Lacanian analysis. Why do you care so much? Take a look out there—who doesn't?


I have mixed feelings about this new state of affairs. On the one hand, it's hard not to get excited about the sheer volume of stuff that's finally available. But part of me is concerned about the long-term implications of putting fandom on display. If you drag people's deep-seated passions into the light of day, you're bound to pull up some pretty ugly stuff, too—and I think that's already begun to happen online.


First, though, the highlights—because, for now, they do outweigh the bad. While fan sites aren't going to save the world (only online retailing can do that), they have made possible a big change in how we relate to the stuff we love. The sites let us take a deeper look at work and people that make life interesting—scrutiny that simply wouldn't be possible otherwise. In a sense, by putting years of research and introspection online, the fans have turned the Internet into a kind of collective biography of popular culture. And the importance of that can't be overstated.


Look at it this way. If the Internet went away tomorrow, you wouldn't lose the ability to find out about the Treaty of Versailles. You could walk into any bookstore or library and find all the information you need on the major figures and events in world history, from Washington to Ellington. But move outside that circle, or even move to one of the less-traveled spots on the circumference, and the reference materials start to dry up. You're left with occasional articles in newspapers and magazines, maybe a biography that goes out of print in five minutes.


In other words, things only a die-hard would track down and only a squirreler would save. For years, if you cared enough to do that, you had to wonder about your relationship to reality. Now, by creating a Web site, you can become an amateur scholar and historian, sharing years of research, accumulation and introspection without vetting from official channels.


This is a remarkable situation, whether you're a diehard or a dabbler. Here's a simple example: the Byrds. A couple of years ago, I decided I didn't know enough about the band. Maybe I heard a song on the radio; maybe I saw a blurb in a magazine; maybe a friend mentioned them to me. Common enough, right? Whatever sparked my interest, I decided to go online and do some research. With a few seconds' surfing, I was at Byrdwatcher (http://ebni.com/byrds/), which broke the band's history down by album and provided juicy miscellany in the margins. A few clicks deeper into the site brought another trove of information, ranging from discographies to lists of band members' solo projects and artists influenced by the group. In about 10 minutes, I went from knowing absolutely nothing about the band to having a solid background—and wanting to buy everything they'd ever recorded.


Now, let's go back to the beginning of that anecdote—I'm interested in the Byrds—but remove the Internet. Where do I go? The bibliography on Byrdwatcher consists of books and articles compiled over decades. Some people (if they were somehow able to get the bibliography) would be curious or obsessive enough to track down that information; maybe I would've, too, back when I spent every free minute hanging out in record- and bookstores avoiding honest work. Most people wouldn't go to those lengths, though, and the interest would wither. The same holds true for most devoted fans who want to know more about their object of adoration. Even if you've got all the Byrds albums on lovingly preserved vinyl, no aficionado is sharp enough to catch every article that comes out, or has enough cash to throw around to buy the deluxe CD reissue series with exhaustive liner notes.


What's more, the Byrds represent the easy stuff, having been relatively well documented over the years. Internet fandom's real value lies in the history of things that have never been recorded, and never would be recorded otherwise. The examples I'm going to give will, inevitably, look ridiculous and esoteric. But that's precisely the point. Everybody's got crazy interests they couldn't possibly explain to anybody else—yes, even you—and the Internet allows this cultural ephemera to be preserved when official memory does not.


I stopped being shocked about what's out there when a friend told me to type goldmonkey.com into my browser. I was rewarded with an exhaustive guide to the short-lived and largely unlamented TV series "Tales of the Gold Monkey." Another site, which appeared to be down for construction at the time of this writing, contained one of the greatest labors of niche love I've ever seen: an in-depth timeline of the "Planet of the Apes" universe, spanning several thousand years and culling dates from not only the movies but also such obscure sources as the "Apes" TV and comic-book series. If those seem a little frivolous, consider the Compleat Bellairs site (http://www.compleatbellairs.com/), devoted to the works of the late author John Bellairs, who wrote pioneering gothic-suspense novels targeted to young-adult readers but followed cultishly by grown-ups, too.


But the fans aren't the only ones writing biography out there—a good number of writers, musicians, actors and athletes have set up outposts online. Some offer little more than news, such as concert dates or future releases. Other artists go further, however, and take advantage of the commercial, and connective, powers of the medium. Many are selling their work online, bypassing middlemen and appealing directly to the fan base—which allows them to release work that might not find a home at a major distributor. And some artists are galvanizing their fan base even further by starting mailing lists, offering online diaries and responding to e-mail from their audience, a level of contact that simply wasn't possible in the past.


It's quite a picture. Not only can fans recognize each other, but they also can be recognized by the people they admire (and sometimes rewarded with tickets, Web-only releases and other exclusive deals). And maybe, in the process, they've created a new way of looking at popular culture.


Yet, every so often, I find myself feeling concerned about the future of the whole thing. It comes down to a very simple fact: There are bad fans out there as well as good ones, and the bad ones are much louder and much more visible.


Fandom, if you haven't guessed by now, has an unpleasant side: excess. Fans spend too much money and too much thought on the things they love. At best, aficionados take their passions, and themselves, with a grain of salt; they don't love any less, they just try to do so with some brains and humor as well as heart. At worst, though, all that fans offer the world is empty fetishizing and inarticulate enthusiasm. Maybe the guy who wears a "Star Trek" outfit in public, and argues about the show's made-up science with the ferocity of a prosecuting attorney, is composing learned treatises in his head. Maybe the gent who spends an entire concert screaming out the title of His Favorite Song harbors a sensitive soul beneath his 30-year-old T-shirt. But I doubt it.


All fans have that monomaniacal obsessive lurking inside them. If they didn't, let's face it, they wouldn't be fans. But the unreasonable ones show the world nothing but that obsessive—which poisons the well for fans who know how to modulate their passions. Seeing the guys in the "Star Trek" suits, or the screaming loners at concerts, makes the world at large suspect that all fans are nuts, making it hard for any aficionado to come out of the closet. Even worse, those guys make fans think that all fans are nuts. So, reasonable enthusiasts back away from their passion, or subject themselves to intense self-scrutiny, before they end up like that guy in the corner who wants to be called "Scotty."


What does this all have to do with cyberspace? I'm afraid that the same dynamic that takes place in the real world, with loopy fans driving out sane ones, will happen online.


For every site that is a reasoned, comprehensive attempt to articulate a passion, there's another that is little more than a billboard announcing an obsession—"I'm Teddy, and here's some stuff I dig!"—with no content, no research, no insight, no attempt to reach out to the world or even other fans. Then there's the level of dialogue. I've been a part of lots of focused, enthusiastic and polite discussions in forums and mailing lists. But in some spots the conversation is so debased that it makes the very impulse to enthusiasm feel tawdry. I've seen personal attacks on the artist being discussed, as well as other contributors to the discussion; idiot debates over minutiae; and an overall lack of reasonable thought, clear expression and self-awareness. If the good sites are a living answer to Why do you care so much?, the bad ones aren't even dimly aware of the question.


Doing this kind of stuff in cyberspace hurts fandom just as much as it does in real life. Every asinine site and dopey debate damages the credibility of the reasonable ones, both with the world at large and with fans themselves. Creating and maintaining a worthy site takes a lot of work. Why reach out across cyberspace if the rest of the online crowd is reaching back with, "I'm Teddy, and here's some stuff I dig!"


Maybe I'm being a worrywart; maybe I'm being a snob. But I can't help but think that all of the good stuff we've got might go away as quickly as it came—and as unlamented as the art it celebrates. I can easily see a time when the current generation of Web-site creators decides it's just not worth the effort to continue and packs its virtual bags. Maybe they won't even be disgusted with the environment; maybe they'll just have more pressing concerns, like families or work. And who'll take their place? Teddy? I'd be as happy as anyone if the idiots swarming onto the Web mature into responsible custodians. I just don't have high hopes it'll happen.


I'll make a deal with you, all you good fans out there. If it falls apart, we'll meet once a week at my place and shoot the breeze about Roger McGuinn, "Second Arrangement" and "Life, Liberty and Pursuit on the Planet of the Apes."


Just ring the bell. If I'm not home, I'll be in the bookstore down the street.


Mr. Toth, a copy editor for The Wall Street Journal, is a science-fiction writer in New York.













FORTY-FIVE

How Technology Has Changed the Way We . . . Listen to the Radio


BY ANNA WILDE MATHEWS



November 13, 2000



As a disk jockey, Nyssim Lefford runs a world-music show at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology's radio station, reaching her listeners through a familiar broadcast medium. But when the Watertown, Mass., graduate student wants to expand her own musical horizons, she frequently turns to her computer, not her stereo. There, she can listen to Web versions of radio stations in such faraway places as Egypt and Tanzania, sampling "things I wouldn't have the ability to hear any other way."









The future of radio may not be over the airwaves. The audience for so-called Webcasts is tiny so far compared with radio as we know it, drawing only about 4% as many regular listeners. But the audience is growing fast for Webcasts, in which radio programs are provided by Web sites and played through personal computers via speakers or headphones. A Media Metrix sampling of popular Web radio sites in July found that their audience had grown 85% in just six months. In a July survey by Edison Media Research and Ceridian Corp.'s Arbitron, a quarter of the respondents said they had listened to at least one Webcast.


Radio stations generally are eager to have their signals rebroadcast on the Internet because it gives their advertising more exposure. Webcasters now are negotiating how much they will pay in licensing fees to record labels, in a process overseen by the U.S. Copyright Office.


But in order for the size of the Web radio audience to keep surging, technology will have to advance enough so that most consumers can listen in their cars or on wireless mobile devices without logging onto the Internet through computers. This shift is likely to take a few years.


For the time being, says Arbitron, more than a third of the people who listen to radio over the Internet find it difficult to do so. Unlike traditional radio—where a listener can simply flip a switch—hearing an online radio station requires logging onto the Internet, locating Web sites and dealing with glitches, such as a bad Internet connection or a befuddling Web page.


The new medium "is in its very early infancy," says Dave Goldberg, chief executive of Launch Media Inc. The Santa Monica company offers Webcasts that listeners can customize by ranking the appeal of the songs they hear and thus influencing what they'll hear from then on. "There's no way to get the stuff mobile yet, and that's what you really need in the long run."


Still, the new services are beginning to change how their customers listen to music, sports and talk. Listeners can hear online versions of conventional radio stations and an enormous array of Web-only programming. Small and obscure corners of the music world can be featured in their own Webcasts, because the Internet can handle an infinite number of channels. America Online Inc.'s Spinner.com Web radio service offers more than 140 genres, from Mod Christian to something called Hair Metal.


OnAir Streaming Networks Inc. of Santa Monica parses its musical genres even finer, with more than 230. Among them are the Viva Las Vegas station (Rat Pack classics), Arena Rock (big bands such as Van Halen), Alternative Divas (alternative rock, focusing on women) and two bebop-jazz stations (bop, which focuses on the 1940s, and hard bop, targeting the 1950s). In country music alone, there are nine variants, from Country Cryin' to Urban Cowboy.


The number of sites offering audio Webcasts is growing sharply, according to BRS Media Inc., a San Francisco consulting firm that keeps a directory of Webcasters. The database recently showed 4,231 sites, some of which included hundreds of different channels. That was up 62% from 2,615 sites a year earlier. Most of the sites feature online versions of traditional radio stations. But 416 were offering Internet-only programming, which typically has little if any advertising.


"You have access to a tremendous variety of music," says Liz Heller, managing director of Prime Ventures, a venture-capital firm based in Santa Monica, Calif. "There are a lot of discovery aspects" for listeners willing to poke around. Web sites offer information on artists and particular songs. There are talk-radio sites, too, such as eYada.com.


Christopher Way, who works in a bookstore in Sanibel, Fla., says he stopped listening to commercial radio during his freshman year in college five years ago. "My tastes are really eclectic," he says, and his interests run the gamut from punk rock, folk and blues to 20th-century classical music. Online, he listens mostly to artists rarely heard on mainstream radio. Meanwhile, he writes book reviews and works online at his home computer.


The Webcasts make a mockery of longstanding geographic constraints. A cricket fan in Los Angeles can tune into a match from the U.K. Web users in rural areas can get cutting-edge urban stations. Yahoo! Inc.'s Broadcast service, for instance, delivers programming from more than 500 radio stations and networks and more than 475 sports teams. Its offerings extend from a sports station in Wichita, Kan., to blues from Charleston, S.C.


"If I had a choice in my kitchen of listening to the five local stations in San Francisco, or thousands, it's a slam dunk," says Patrick Mahoney, senior vice president for research and technology at iCast Corp., a Woburn, Mass., entertainment Web firm that offers music Webcasts and is majority-owned by CMGI Inc.


In Eau Claire, Wis., financial adviser Kevin McKinley couldn't find much music he liked on the narrow band of broadcast stations available in his area. "There's Britney Spears on three stations, and there's mainstream country on three stations, and there are three classic-rock stations," he says. So at home, he leaves his computer playing music for hours in an odd mix of his favorites that can include a bluegrass musician back-to-back with Nirvana or Billie Holiday.


Some of the Webcasters allow users to create their own programming, essentially making them DJs.


Viacom Inc.'s Sonicnet site lets users pick genres and subgenres, and then rate the artists as they play, putting favorites into a heavy rotation and discarding unpopular choices. Using Launch Media's personalization service—which extrapolates from listener feedback to decide what to play next—Chris Zachos can count on hearing music that reflects his tastes, mostly alternative rock, all day at his job at a Boston employee-satisfaction research firm. He even throws into the mix the preferences of co-workers who sit near him, so he can play music on his speakers without annoying them. "I'm able basically to listen to my own radio station," he says.


According to Arbitron's figures, about two-thirds of Internet audio listeners said they tuned in at home, 10% did so at work and 15% listened in both places. The survey also found that 29% of the Internet radio audience was listening while working on computers and 19% while doing other activities away from their PCs. The most popular time was night, with 44% of Internet audio listeners saying that was when they listened most.


But some Webcasting sites suggest that usage patterns may be different for frequent users. These sites say their user numbers appear to jump during the workday, as people tune in at their desks.


Auto and wireless firms are working to deliver Internet radio to cars, cell phones and handheld computers. Industry officials estimate that such services should be fairly widely available within three years in the U.S.


Already, some companies are selling devices that simulate the appearance and simplicity of a traditional radio, but play Webcasts instead. This fall, 3Com Corp.'s Kerbango unit will start shipping a blue plastic device that looks like an old-time console—and gets FM and AM broadcasts—but hooks up to an Internet connection. Users can "tune" the player with a knob that helps them sort through more than 5,000 Web channels sorted by genre. The device will sell for a little under $300. It connects directly to the Internet so you don't need to go through a PC. Though the knob gives the feeling of old-time radio, listeners really are dialing among various preprogrammed types of fare, such as country music.


A rival company, Sonicbox, sells a setup that allows a traditional radio to play Webcasts. With one device plugged into an Internet connection and another attached to the radio, a user can scroll through about 800 Web channels using a special remote control. The setup works only in close proximity to the Internet connection, so the user can't take this gizmo too far outside the house. But David Frerichs, a Sonicbox executive, says he recently tried out the device during a local block party, and managed to get a boombox perched on his neighbor's driveway to play a Web channel called "clambake jazz."


"Fundamentally, sitting at your computer is not a radio-like experience," he says. "This lets you experience radio the way it was intended."


Ms. Mathews is a staff reporter in The Wall Street Journal's Los Angeles bureau.










FORTY-SIXHow Technology Has Changed the Way We . . . Do HomeworkBY MEGAN DOSCHERNovember 13, 2000As homework for his dramatic-literature class, Arash Keshmirian designed a model of the ballroom scene from "Pygmalion." But he didn't spend long evenings building it with glue and Popsicle sticks. The Palo Alto High School senior polished off his assignment in about four hours using 3-D rendering software on his hand-built 800-megahertz personal computer. The software gave him the ability to lend his model real-world dimensions and textures, including a parquet dance floor.And once his assignment was completed, Mr. Keshmirian uploaded the file from home to his personal "digital locker" on his high school's network.This spared him from having to save the file on several floppy disks or "burn it on a CD," he says, to transport the file to school.Doing homework is nothing like it used to be. Technology has given students access to information and tools that vastly increase the potential of what they can accomplish. In 1999, 95% of public schools had Internet access, according to the National Center for Education Statistics. Meanwhile, 26.2% of U.S. households had Internet access in the same period, the National Telecommunications and Information Administration reports. Many schools are creating their own Web sites as well, allowing students to communicate more with teachers and one another. Meanwhile, educators and parents, not to mention students, are hoping that the days of the 50-pound backpack loaded with texts may be nearing an end as e-books and personal digital assistants become more widely used.But with new technology comes a new set of problems. Not every student has access to a computer at home. Some students use the resources available to them to cut corners or copy homework from questionable sources. And some adults worry about the effect technology is having on teenagers, who find themselves facing much higher expectations.The Internet has taken away at least one common excuse for missed homework assignments. Most teachers at Palo Alto High School, nicknamed Paly, post homework assignments on their own sections of the California school's Web site. Of course, this can be a double-edged sword for students who show up empty-handed, claiming they didn't know about the assignment. "It gives me enormous pleasure to say to the students, 'Nearly the entire civilized world could have looked up your homework last night,' " says Charles Merritt, a Spanish teacher.Paly is far from paperless, however, despite its extensive use of the Web. Many educators, in fact, worry about a "digital divide" and take steps to make sure that no students are left out. Mr. Merritt always hands out a written copy of homework assignments in his classes, he says, because "I'm very much aware that if even one student doesn't have access to the Internet at home, then I'm excluding someone."But for those students who do have access, all sorts of other "homework helpers" exist on the Web, from America Online Inc.'s AOL Homework Help, which offers study rooms and allows students to send e-mail questions to experts, to StudyWeb.com, which provides a directory of educational sites organized by topic and rated by its staff.And individual classes find treasure troves of information at more specific sites. Art students can check out virtual museums online, while a class on government can go straight to the White House Web site. Career classes have access to Web sites listing millions of jobs around the world, and economics students can check the latest interest-rate data from the Federal Reserve's site.But some potential homework aids are of a dubious nature. For instance, several sites, including Travlang.com and AltaVista, offer translations from English to various foreign languages (and vice versa), but Mr. Merritt, the Spanish teacher, says they aren't effective as shortcuts for the homework he assigns—and he has demonstrated their inadequacies in class."It's so easy to make [the online translators] fail spectacularly by throwing in a few English idioms," he says.Mary Ellen Minichiello, a high-school teacher in Milford, Conn., says she tries to teach her students to be discriminating in their use of online sources and to understand that sometimes the best information isn't on the Internet.Ms. Doscher is an editor for WSJ.com in New York.
WIRED AT SCHOOL . . .
Percentage of schools with Internet access

Source: National Center for Education Statistics
. . . AND AT HOME
Percentage of households with Internet access (September 2000)

Source: International Data Corp.









ABOUT THE WALL STREET JOURNAL

The Wall Street Journal, the flagship publication of Dow Jones & Company, Inc., publishes the world's most vital business and financial news and information. Founded in 1889, the Journal has more than 4.8 million readers daily in the United States and around the world. Its reporters and editors are one of the most respected groups of journalists in the world. The Journal is headquartered in New York.





