
















t h e c a m b r i d g e
h i s t o r y o f
Hellenistic Philosophy
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
TH E C A M B R I D GE
H I S T O RY OF
Hellenistic Philosophy
*
 Edited by
K E I M P E A L G R A
l e c t u r e r i n a n c i e n t p h i l o s o p h y, 
u n i v e r s i t y o f u t r e c h t
J O N A T H A N B A R N E S
p r o f e s s o r o f a n c i e n t p h i l o s o p h y, 
u n i v e r s i t y o f g e n e v a
JA A P M A N S F E LD
p r o f e s s o r o f a n c i e n t a n d m e d i e v a l p h i l o s o p h y, u n i v e r s i t y o f u t r e c h t
M A L C O L M S C H O F I E L D
p r o f e s s o r o f a n c i e n t p h i l o s o p h y, 
u n i v e r s i t y o f c a m b r i d g e
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
p u b l i s h e d b y t h e p r e s s s y n d i c a t e of t h e u n i v e r s i t y o f c a m b r i d g e The Pitt Building, Trumpington Street, Cambridge, United Kingdom c a m b r i d g e u n i v e r s i t y p r e s s
The Edinburgh Building, Cambridge cb2 2ru, UK
40 West 20th Street, New York, ny 10 011-4211, USA
477 Williamstown Road, Port Melbourne, vic 3207, Australia
Ruiz de Alarcon
⬘ 13, 28014 Madrid, Spain
Dock House, The Waterfront, Cape Town 8001, South Africa
http://www.cambridge.org
© Cambridge University Press 1999
This book is in copyright. Subject to statutory exception
and to the provisions of relevant collective licensing agreements, no reproduction of any part may take place without
the written permission of Cambridge University Press. 
First published 1999
Reprinted 2002
Printed in the United Kingdom at the University Press, Cambridge Typeface  teff Renard 9.5/12.75 pt  System  QuarkXPress® [se]
A catalogue record for this book is available from the British Library Library of Congress cataloguing in publication data
The Cambridge history of Hellenistic philosophy / edited by Keimpe Algra . . . [et al.]. 
p. 
cm. 
Includes bibliographical references and index. 
i s b n 0 521 25028 5 (hardback)
1. Philosophy, Ancient. 
i. Algra, Keimpe, 1959-. 
b171.c36
1999
180-dc21
98-36033 cip
isbn 0 521 25028 5 hardback
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
 Contents
 Preface xi
p a r t i
I N T RO D U C T I O N
21 . Sources
 by  Jaap Mansfeld , Professor of Ancient and Medieval Philosophy, University of Utrecht
i Why so much has been lost
 3
ii Primary sources
 5
iii Secondary sources
 6
iv  Quellenforschung
 13
v Genres
 16
vi Doxography
 17
vii On sects
 19
viii Successions
 23
ix Biography
 25
x Fragments
 26
xi Tradition and reception
 29
22 . Chronology
 by  Tiziano Dorandi , Chercheur at the CNRS, Paris
i Introduction
 31
ii The Academy
 31
iii The Peripatos
 35
iv The Stoa
 37
v The Garden
 43
vi Pyrrhonists
 46
vii Minor Socratics
 47
viii Survey
 48
 Appendix:  Successions of scholarchs
 53
23 . Organization and structure of the philosophical schools
 by  Tiziano Dorandi
 55
[v]
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
vi
 Contents
p a r t i i
LO G I C A N D LA N G UAG E
24 . Introduction
 by  Jonathan Barnes,  Professor of Ancient Philosophy, University of Geneva
i A map of logic
 65
ii The value of logic
 67
iii The history of Hellenistic logic
 69
25 . Logic
 by  Jonathan Barnes, Susanne Bobzien,  Lecturer in
 Philosophy in the University of Oxford  and Mario Mignucci, formerly Professor of Philosophy, University of Padua
i The Peripatetics
 77
ii The 'Megarics'
 83
iii The Stoics
 92
26 . Language
 by  Dirk M. Schenkeveld,  Professor Emeritus of Ancient Greek, Vrije Universiteit, Amsterdam  and Jonathan Barnes
i Linguistics
 177
ii Rhetoric
 216
iii Poetics
 221
p a r t i i i
E P I S T E M O LO G Y
27 . Introduction: the beginnings of Hellenistic epistemology
 by  Jacques Brunschwig,  Professor Emeritus of Ancient Philosophy, University of Paris
i The epistemological turn
 229
ii Pyrrho
 241
iii Cyrenaic epistemology
 251
28 . Epicurean epistemology
 by  Elizabeth Asmis,  Professor, Department of Classics, University of Chicago
i Canonic
 260
ii Perceptions
 264
iii Preconceptions
 276
iv Beliefs
 283
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
 Contents
vii
29 . Stoic epistemology
10 .  by  Michael Frede,  Professor of the History of Philosophy, University of Oxford
i The possibility of knowledge
 295
ii Cognition
 296
iii Cognitive impressions
 300
iv Clearness, distinctness, evidence
 312
v Assent to cognitive impressions
 313
vi The criteria
 316
vii Conclusion
 321
10 . Academic epistemology
10 .  by  Malcolm Schofield,  Professor of Ancient Philosophy, University of Cambridge
i Introduction
 323
ii Arcesilaus: the problem of interpretation
 324
iii Arcesilaus' position
 327
iv Two objections to Arcesilaus
 331
v Carneades on opinion and assent
 334
vi Carneades on the impossibility of knowledge
 338
vii Carneades' 'probabilism'
 345
viii Conclusion
 350
part iv
P H YS I C S A N D M E TA P H YS I C S
11 . Hellenistic physics and metaphysics
 by  David Sedley,  Professor of Ancient Philosophy, University of Cambridge i Introduction
 355
ii Diodorus Cronus
 356
iii Epicurean physics
 362
iv Stoic physics and metaphysics
 382
12 . Cosmology
 by  David Furley,  Professor Emeritus of Classics,  Princeton University i Introduction: the fourth-century legacy
 412
ii The Epicureans
 418
iii The early Stoics
 432
13 . Theology
 by  Jaap Mansfeld
i Philosophical theology
 452
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
viii
 Contents
ii Existence and attributes
 454
iii The gods, the world and men
 462
iv Knowledge of God
 469
v Academic views and criticisms
 475
14 . Explanation and causation
 by  R. J. Hankinson,  Professor of Philosophy, University of Texas at Austin i Background
 479
ii Stoic materialism
 481
iii The Stoic analysis of causation
 483
iv Antecedent causes
 487
v The concept of preceding causes
 490
vi Dispositions and powers
 491
vii Causes and conditions
 494
viii Causes and time
 497
ix The Epicureans and causal explanation
 498
x Teleology and mechanism
 503
xi The limits of explanation: multiple explanations
 505
xii The limits of explanation: empiricism
 507
15 . Determinism and indeterminism
 by  R. J. Hankinson
i The origins of the question
 513
ii Logic and contingency
 516
iii The Hellenistic response
 517
iv The Epicurean position
 522
v The Stoic response to the Master argument: fate
and necessity
 526
vi The Chrysippean notion of fate: soft determinism
 529
vii Fate and responsibility:  confatalia  and the  eph' he
 -min 531
viii Divination and fate
 534
ix Soft determinism
 537
x Fate and moral progress
 540
16 . Epicurean psychology
 by  Stephen Everson,  Professor of Philosophy, University of Michigan i Introduction
 542
ii The  psuche
 -
 543
iii Physicalism and materialism
 546
iv Epicurean physicalism
 550
v Voluntary action
 553
vi Conclusion
 558
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
 Contents
ix
17 . Stoic psychology
 by  A. A. Long,  Irving Stone Professor of Literature in the Department of Classics, University of California at Berkeley
i Introduction
 560
ii The physical structure of the  psuche
 - and its location in
the body
 562
iii Rationality and the faculties of the mind
 572
iv Concluding remarks
 584
18 . Philosophy, science and medicine
 by  Giuseppe Cambiano,  Professor of Ancient Philosophy at the University of Turin
i Philosophy and mathematics
 585
ii Epicureanism and mathematics
 587
iii Scepticism and geometry
 590
iv Philosophy, astronomy and astrology
 595
v Anatomy and philosophical questions
 599
vi Medical knowledge and experience
 604
vii Medical disputes and philosophical arguments
 608
p a r t v
E T H I C S A N D P O L I T I C S
19 . The Socratic legacy
 by  A.A. Long
i Introduction
 617
ii The Socratic presence in Greek ethics
 618
iii Antisthenes and Diogenes - Cynic ethics
 623
iv Crates and the literary transmission of Cynicism
 629
v Aristippus and Cyrenaic hedonism
 632
vi Socratic ethics and Hellenistic scepticism
 639
20 . Epicurean ethics
 by  Michael Erler,  Professor of Classics, University of Würzburg  and M a l c o l m S c h o f i e l d
i Introduction
 642
ii Ethics within the philosophy of Epicurus
 644
iii Philosophical background
 647
iv Pleasure and the foundation of ethics
 648
v Pleasure as the goal
 651
vi Desire and the limits of life
 657
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
x
 Contents
vii Virtue and friendship
 666
viii Practice
 669
21 . Stoic ethics
 by  Brad Inwood,  Professor of Classics, University of Toronto, and P i e r l u i g i D o n i n i ,  Professor of the History of Philosophy at the State University of Milan
i Foundations and first principles
 675
ii  Oikeio
 -sis  and primary impulse
 677
iii Cosmic nature and human nature
 682
iv The goal of life
 684
v The good
 687
vi Values, actions and choice
 690
vii Passions
 699
viii Moral education and the problem of the passions
 705
ix Virtue and wisdom
 714
x Moral progress
 724
xi Determinism and ethics: impulse with reservation
 736
22 . Social and political thought
 by  Malcolm Schofield
i Introduction
 739
ii An overview
 740
iii On kingship
 742
iv Polybius on the growth and decline of constitutions
 744
v Epicureanism on security
 748
vi Zeno's  Republic
 756
vii Justice,  oikeio
 -sis  and the cosmic city
 760
viii Retrospect
 769
Epilogue
 771
M i c h a e l F r e d e
 Synopsis of principal events 798
 Editions of sources and fragments 805
 List of abbreviations 820
 Bibliography 828
 Index locorum 876
 General index 907
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
 Preface
Not so many decades ago Hellenistic philosophy was widely regarded as a dark age in the history of thought: it was a period of epigoni, a period of post-Aristotelian depression. The age produced nothing worth ponder-ing and little worth reading. Moreover, there was little enough to read: few texts from the period survive in their entirety; and the fragments and testimonies to which we are now reduced derive for the most part from jejune epitomators or hostile commentators. An historian of philosophy would be best advised to doze through the Hellenistic period - indeed, why wake up before the birth of Plotinus? 
Fashions change, and this dismal and depreciatory assessment is now universally rejected. Hellenistic philosophy was not dull: on the contrary, it was a bright and brilliant period of thought. The Hellenistic philosophers were not epigoni: on the contrary, they opened up new areas of speculation and they engaged in debates and discussions which were both passionate and profound. It cannot be denied that time has served the period badly. If the textual situation is less desperate than has sometimes been pretended, it remains true that for the most part we are obliged to reconstruct the thought of the Hellenistic philosophers from later reports
- and these reports are indeed often thin or confused or biassed. But such di√culties no longer daunt - rather, they add a certain piquancy to the study. 
The revived interest in the Hellenistic period has caused a spate of publications - articles and monographs and books pour from the learned presses, and some of them are distinguished contributions to scholarship. 
But for the most part they deal with particular problems or specific aspects of the matter; and a good, full, general treatment of Hellenistic philosophy is not easy to discover. It may thus seem opportune to essay a general history of the subject - and that is what this volume attempts to do. Not that it represents, or pretends to determine, an orthodoxy. 
Indeed, there are few interesting claims about Hellenistic philosophy which are not controversial, and few areas where any scholar would be
[xi]
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
xii
 Preface
inclined to say: There we have it. This  History of Hellenistic Philosophy, then, is not definitive. Nor did the editors seek to persuade the contributors to disguise their discords: the riding of hobby-horses was discouraged, and a contributor who proposed to o◊er a novel or a bold interpretation was asked to confess the fact and to provide references to rival views; but no doctrinal uniformity was imposed, and readers of the History  will occasionally find an interpretation commended on one page and rejected on another. 
The phrase 'Hellenistic philosophy' consists of two disputable words. 
The Hellenistic period conventionally begins with the death of Alexander the Great and ends with the battle of Actium some three hundred years later. The  History, for reasons which are explained in the Epilogue, has a slightly more modest chronological scope: it starts, in e◊ect, from the last days of Aristotle (who died a year after Alexander) and it stops in about 10 0 bc. In consequence, it says nothing - save incidentally - about certain figures who standardly count as Hellenistic philosophers: Posidonius is not among its heroes; Philodemus and the Epicureans of the first century bc, do not appear in their own right; Aenesidemus and the revival of Pyrrhonism are not discussed. 
Any division of any sort of history into chronological segments will be arbitrary, at least at the edges, and it would be absurd to pretend that philosophy changed, abruptly or essentially, in 320 bc and again in 10 0 bc. 
Equally, any history must choose some chronological limits; and the limits chosen for this  History  are, or so the editors incline to think, reasonably reasonable - at least, they are more reasonable than the traditional limits. It may be objected that the word 'Hellenistic' is now inept. (In truth, some historians dislike the word  tout court.) But there is no other word with which to replace it, and it is used here without, of course, any ideological connotations - as a mere label, a sign for a certain span of time. 
The term 'philosophy', too, is not without its vagaries - what people have been content to name 'philosophy' has changed from age to age (and place to place), and at the edges there has always been a pleasing penum-bra. The  History  has, in e◊ect, adopted something like the following rule of thumb: anything which both counted as philosophy for the Hellenistic Greeks and also counts as philosophy for us is admitted as philosophy for the purposes of the  History; and in addition, a few other items which find themselves on the margins of the subject - the sciences, rhetoric and poetics - have been considered, though less fully than they might have been in a history of the general intellectual achievements of the period. Other Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
 Preface
xiii
principles might have been followed: the editors claim that their rule of thumb is no worse than any other. 
Then there is the question of order and arrangement. In e◊ect, any historian of Hellenistic philosophy is confronted by a di√cult choice: to write by school or to write by subject? Each choice has its advantages and its disadvantages. Writing by school - Part i: the Epicureans, Part ii: the Stoa . . . - allows for a systematic and coherent presentation of the main
'philosophies' of the period; and since those philosophies were - or at least purported to be - systematic, such a presentation is in principle desirable. On the other hand, the Hellenistic period was also characterized by vigorous debate and discussion among the partisans of the di◊erent schools of thought: if systems were built, they were also attacked
- and defended, redesigned, attacked again . . . A history which proceeds school by school will find it relatively hard to bring out this dynamic aspect of its subject and hence it will tend to disguise the very aspect of Hellenistic philosophy which has contributed most to the revival of its fortunes. 
Writing by subject has, evidently enough, the opposite features: the cut and thrust of debate is more readily exhibited and explained - but the school systems will be presented in fragmented fashion. The editors decided, without great confidence, to prefer subjects to schools: readers who require an account of, say, Stoicism may, without great labour, construct one for themselves by studying a discontinuous selection of sections of the  History. 
If a history is to be written by subject, then how is philosophy best divided into its component subjects? It would have been possible to take one of the ancient 'divisions' of philosophy, and to let it give the  History  its structure. Indeed there was, in later antiquity, a standard division, for most, and the most important, authors say that there are three parts of philosophy - ethical, physical, logical.1
Ethics comprehended political theory as well as moral philosophy; physics included most of what we should call metaphysics, as well as philosophy of science and philosophical psychology; and logic embraced not only logic in the broadest of its contemporary senses but also epistemology - and sometimes even rhetoric. 
Numerous texts acknowledge the tripartition as a feature of Hellenistic philosophy. Thus according to Sextus Empiricus, 
1
Sen.  Ep. 89.9; cf. e.g. Apul.  Int. 189, 1-3. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
xiv
 Preface
there has been much dispute among the Dogmatists about the parts of philosophy, some saying that it has one part, some two, some three; it would not be appropriate to deal with this in more detail here, and we shall set down impartially the opinion of those who seem to have dwelt upon the matter more fully . . . The Stoics and some others say that there are three parts of philosophy - logic, physics, ethics - and they begin their exposition with logic (although there has indeed been much dissension even about where one should begin). (S.E.  PH  ii.12-13) Elsewhere Sextus goes into the details; and he reports that 'implicitly, Plato was the originator' of the tripartition, although 'Xenocrates and the Peripatetics introduced it most explicitly - and the Stoics too stand by this division' ( M  vii.16).2
The reference to Plato is a matter of piety rather than of history; and most scholars are content to ascribe the formal origin of the division to Xenocrates. The Peripatetics acknowledged a three-fold division, but not a literal tripartition; for they preferred to split philosophy itself into two parts, theoretical and practical (which corresponded roughly to physics and ethics), and to deem logic to be not a part but a tool or instrument of philosophy.3 As for the Stoics, Zeno and Chrysippus and many of their followers did indeed subscribe to the tripartition; but
Cleanthes says that there are six parts - dialectic, rhetoric, ethics, politics, physics, theology - although others, among them Zeno of Tarsus, say that these are not parts of philosophical discourse but rather parts of philosophy itself. (D.L. vii.41)
Other Schools, and individuals, might acknowledge three parts in principle while in practice 'rejecting' one or another of them - usually logic. 
Thus the Epicureans 'rejected logical theory', in the sense that they thought that it was somehow superfluous or useless (S.E.  M  vii.14). 
Nonetheless, they studied what they called 'canonics', a subject which covers much of what their rivals subsumed under logic, and which they chose to regard as a part of physics (D.L. x.30). 
Sextus decided to follow the order: logic, physics, ethics. And this was the usual practice. But, as Sextus insists, there was dissent on this matter too, and most of the possible permutations had their advocates. To be sure, it is not clear what the dissension was about. Sometimes the question at issue seems to be pedagogical: in which order should a student of 2 See also S.E.  M  vii.1-19; D.L. vii.39-41; Plut.  Stoic.Repug. 1035a (further texts in Hülser 1987-8, 12-22): discussion in Hadot 1979; Ierodiakonou 1993b; Dörrie and Baltes 1996, 205-31. 
3
See Barnes  et al  1991, 41-3. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
 Preface
xv
philosophy be taught the three parts of the subject? Sometimes it is rather systematical: what are the logical relations among the parts, which presuppose which? Sometimes, again, it appears to have had a normative colouring: which part is the culmination, the summit, of the philosophical ascent? Connected to these issues were certain similes or analogies. 
Thus philosophy was likened to an orchard: the trees are physics, the fruit is ethics, and the fencing is set up by logic. Or to an egg: ethics the yolk, physics the white, logic the shell. Or to an animal: physics the flesh and blood, logic the bones, ethics the soul.4
What was the importance, inside Hellenistic philosophy, of this tripartition? It might be thought, first, to have had a certain negative significance, inasmuch as it served to exclude various intellectual disciplines from the study of 'things human and divine' and hence to determine the bounds of philosophy proper. Thus the tripartition might seem to leave no place for mathematics, say, or for medicine; or for astronomy, music, rhetoric, grammatical theory . . . But this is not so. Some philosophers, to be sure, would have no truck with rhetoric; but the Stoics treated it as a philosophical discipline - and they had no difficulty in subsuming it under logic, as the companion to dialectic. Again, astronomy was usually taken to be a technical discipline to which philosophers had no professional access; but the cosmological parts of physics in fact brought philosophers into contact with the heavens - and the Epicureans found much to say on the matter. In truth, the tripartite scheme was a fairly elastic sausage-skin: you might stuff it with what you would. 
Secondly, and more obviously, the tripartition might be thought to have given a structure to the enquiries of the Hellenistic philosophers. No doubt the subject - like a well planted orchard or a good egg - had a unity and an internal coherence; but it also had its compartments, and you might research here rather than there, write or teach on this aspect rather than on that. This, to be sure, is true; the ancient 'doxographies' reveal it in its most jejune form; and the titles of numerous Hellenistic works offer a meatier indication. But it would be a mistake to insist on the point. 
Readers of Plato sometimes ask themselves: What is this dialogue - the Republic, the  Phaedrus - about? to what part or branch of philosophy does it pertain? And they quickly see that the question has no answer: the dialogue advances whithersoever reason leads it, unconstrained by school-masterly notions of syllabus and timetable. And the same, it is reasonable to think, was often the case in Hellenistic texts. Read the 4 See esp. S.E.  M  vii.17-19 (where the simile of the body is ascribed to Posidonius); D.L. vii.40. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
xvi
 Preface
surviving fragments of Chrysippus, and guess from which works they derive: where the answer is known (which, to be sure, is not often), you will be wrong as often as right. 
Yet if the ancient tripartition was not universally recognized, if the contents of its constituent parts were not uniformly determined, and if ordinary philosophical practice allowed a fair amount of seepage from one part to another, nonetheless - to return to Seneca - 'most, and the most important, philosophers' accepted it. And we might have based this History  upon it. In fact, we decided to prefer a modern to an ancient division. To be sure, the standard tripartition Seneca refers to is reflected in the general structure we have imposed on the material. But its detailed articulation does not purport to follow an ancient pattern, and some of our topics and subtopics were not known to the Hellenistic world. 
(Epistemology, for example, was not a branch, nor yet a sub-branch, of ancient philosophy.)
The choice of a modern rather than an ancient principle of division was determined by a prior choice of the same nature. In general, we may look at a past period of thought from our own point of view or we may try to look at it from the point of view of the thinkers of the period itself; that is to say, we may consider it as an earlier part of the history to which we ourselves now belong, or we may consider it as it appeared at the time. The two approaches will produce, as a rule, two rather di◊erent histories; for what then seemed - and was - central and important may, with hindsight, seem and be peripheral, and what was once peripheral may assume, as the subject develops and changes, a central importance. Each approach is valuable. The two cannot always be followed simultaneously. Most contemporary historians of philosophy, for reasons which are both various and more or less evident, have adopted the former approach. The  History is, in this respect, orthodox. But it is a mitigated orthodoxy: several of the contributors have followed - or hugged - the ancient contours of their subject; and the faculty of hindsight is a subjective thing - some readers of the  History  will doubtless find it antiquated rather than contemporary in its implicit assessment of the centre and the periphery of philosophy. 
A pendant to these remarks. It would be satisfying were the number of pages allotted to a subject a rough measure of its weight or importance. 
The  History  does not distribute its pages according to such a principle; for the nature of the evidence imposes certain constraints. Where the evidence is relatively extensive, a longer discussion is possible; and where the evidence is relatively sparse, a longer discussion is desirable. A topic for which we have only a handful of summary reports focused on what the Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
s e c o n d a r y s o u r c e s
xvii
ancients thought, not why they thought what they thought, can hardly be given a generous allowance of space, however important it may seem to us (or have seemed to them). The exigencies of the evidence have not determined the distribution of pages among subjects; but they have powerfully and inevitably influenced it. 
*
The  History  has been written by specialists: it has not been written for specialists. Nor, to be sure, has it been written for that mythical personage, General Reader. The editors imagine that any serious student, amateur or professional, of ancient philosophy might find a history of Hellenistic philosophy useful and interesting; and they have supposed that a similar, if less direct, interest and utility might attract students of classical antiquity who have no special concern for philosophy and students of philosophy who have no special concern for classical antiquity. 
Such hopes have determined the degree of technical expertise which the  History  expects of its readers - expertise in the three pertinent disciplines of philosophy, history, and philology. From a philosophical point of view, some of the issues discussed in the  History  are intrinsically di√cult and dense. No account of them can be easy, nor have the contributors been urged to smooth and butter their subjects. But in principle the History  does not presuppose any advanced philosophical training: it tries to avoid jargon, and it tries to avoid knowing allusions to contemporary issues. For quite di◊erent reasons, the history of the period - its intellectual history - is not easy either. Here too the  History  in principle o◊ers a text which supposes no prior expertise in the chronicles and events of the Hellenistic period. Those historical facts (or conjectures) which are pertinent to an understanding of the discussion are, for the most part, set down in the Introduction; and in general, the  History  itself purports to supply whatever historical information it demands. 
As to philology, the nature of the evidence makes a certain amount of scholarship indispensable: as far as possible, this has been confined to the footnotes. On a more basic level, there is the question of the ancient languages. In the footnotes there will be found a certain amount of untranslated Greek and Latin; but the body of the  History  is designed to be intelligible to readers whose only language is English. Any passage from an ancient author which is cited is cited in English translation. (If a Greek or Latin word appears in the main text, it serves only to indicate what lies behind the English translation.) Technical terms - and technical terms were common enough in Hellenistic philosophy - form a problem apart. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
xviii
s o u r c e s
In most cases a technical term has been given a rough and ready translation; in a few cases a Latin word or a transliterated Greek word has been treated as a piece of honorary English: every technical term is introduced by a word or two of paraphrase or explication when first it enters the discussion. 
Principles of this sort are easy to state, di√cult to follow with consistency. There are, no doubt, certain pages where a piece of philosophical jargon has insinuated itself, where an historical allusion has not been explained, where a morsel of ancient terminology remains unglossed. The editors hope that there are few such pages. 
*
The several chapters of the  History  are largely independent of one another: the  History  will, we imagine, sometimes be used as a work of reference; and it is not necessary to begin at page 1 in order to understand what is said on page 301. Occasional cross-references signal interconnections among the chapters, so that a reader of page 301 might find it helpful (but not mandatory) to turn back or forward in the volume. The requirement of independence leads to a small amount of repetition: the odd overlappings among the chapters may detract from the elegance of the  History  but they add to its utility. 
The footnotes serve three main functions: they quote, and sometimes discuss, ancient texts - in particular, esoteric or knotty texts; they provide references to ancient passages which are not explicitly quoted; and they contain information, for the most part sparing, about the pertinent modern literature on the subject. The Bibliography serves to collect those modern works to which the footnotes refer: it is not a systematic bibliography, let alone a comprehensive bibliography, of Hellenistic philosophy. 
Printed bibliographies are out of date before they are published; and any reader who wants a comprehensive list of books and articles on Hellenistic philosophy may readily construct one from the bibliographical journals. 
The  History  was begun more years ago than the editors care to recall. It was inaugurated in a spirit of euphoria (occasioned by a celebrated sporting triumph). Its career was punctuated by bouts of depression (which had nothing to do with any sporting disasters). Twice it nearly succumbed. The editors therefore have more cause than most to o◊er thanks: first, to the contributors, some of whom must have despaired of ever seeing their work in print; secondly, to the University of Utrecht, its Department of Philosophy, the Netherlands Organization for Scientific Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
s e c o n d a r y s o u r c e s
xix
Research (NWO), and the C. J. de Vogel Foundation for their generous financial aid; thirdly, to the Cambridge University Press - and in particular to Jeremy Mynott and to Pauline Hire - for their patience, encouragement and optimism. In addition, we would like to express our gratitude to Stephen Chubb for his translation of chapters 2, 3, 18, and parts of chapter 21; and we would like to record that without the unstinting technical support of Han Baltussen and Henri van de Laar the  History  would never have reached the public. 
K A . J B . J M . M S
 Utrecht, September 1997
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
p a r t   i
I N T RO D U C T I O N
*
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
1
Sources
j a a p   m a n s f e l d
i Why so much has been lost
We know a good deal about Hellenistic1 philosophy, but by no means as much as we would like to know. The reason is that with very few exceptions no works written by the Hellenistic philosophers themselves survive. The situation is therefore quite di◊erent from that in which we find ourselves with regard to the great classical philosophers, Plato and Aristotle. Plato's complete works have been preserved. Much of Aristotle's vast output has perished, but the philosophically more important part of his writings is still available. The reason for the preservation of these Platonic and Aristotelian corpora is that these works continued to be taught and studied in the philosophical schools. Treatises of Aristotle were taught by the late Neoplatonists as a preparation for the study of a set of dialogues by Plato, and those of his works which were not part of the curricula have mostly  perished.  The  professional  teachers  of  philosophy  themselves were required to have perfect knowledge of practically everything these great masters had written. 
But by the end of the third century ad the schools (in the sense both of institutions and schools of thought) which had been founded in the early Hellenistic period had died out.2 The works of Epicurus and his immediate  followers,  or  of  the  great  early  Stoics  for  example,  were  no  longer taught, though a preliminary instruction in the views of the main schools could still be part of a decent pagan education in the fourth and to a much lesser extent in the fifth and sixth centuries ad.3 The institutional basis 1 For  the  nineteenth-century  origin  of  this  problematic  denomination  and  periodization  see Bichler 1983, Isnardi Parente 1985-6. For  belles-lettres  the classical period is the 5th century, for philosophy the 4th, for medicine the 5th/4th century bc. For mathematics it is the 3rd/2nd century bc, i.e. the early Hellenistic period (most of the works of Euclid, Archimedes and part of Apollonius  having  been  preserved,  as  well  as  opuscula  by  other  authors);  for  the  traditions involved see Knorr 1989, esp. 224-45 on Pappus and Eutocius. 
2 On the philosophical recession in the third century ad see Longinus at Porph.  VP  20, Sa◊rey and Westerink 1968, xli-xlii. 
3 For the survival of doxographical literature see below, n. 65. 
[3]
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
4
s o u r c e s
which  would  have  ensured  the  preservation  of  the  Hellenistic  philosophers disappeared. 
From the second to the fourth centuries ad the originally humble vel-lum (or papyrus) codex, the forerunner of our book, gradually replaced the papyrus scroll as the vehicle for higher forms of literature4. The works that  were  taught  to  students  and  studied  by  the  professors  themselves were carefully and systematically transcribed, and in su√cient numbers. 
The enormous mass of works that were no longer taught were either not transcribed  at  all  and  so  eventually  perished  along  with  the  fragile material on which they had been written, or transcribed in quantities that were not su√ciently large to warrant their survival, though works that were  popular  for  other  reasons  had  good  chances  to  survive.  Libraries tend to deteriorate and - much worse - burn.5 In order to explain Plato and  Aristotle,  as  the  expression  was,  'from  themselves',6 that  is  to  say from what is stated in their own writings, there was no need to adduce the works of the Hellenistic philosophers. These thinkers and their later followers had often enough criticized Plato and Aristotle, or attempted to work  out  ideas  which  they  believed  to  be  better,  and  in  some  cases undoubtedly were better. But from the first centuries bc and ad onwards, the professors of Aristotelian and Platonic philosophy had taken some of these criticisms and alternatives into account in their oral or written comments and commentaries on individual works. Useful ideas worked out by philosophical rivals had been incorporated in updated versions of the Platonic system, and the ingenuity of Plato's exegetes had found intima-tions of, and so a legitimation for, these ideas in Plato's own works. The commentaries on the great classical philosophers were quite e◊ective in protecting  students  against  the  impact  of  potentially  destructive  doctrines  of  rival  schools.  What  the  average  student  should  know  about Stoicism or Epicureanism, to mention only the more important currents, was found in elementary handbooks or in the Platonic and Aristotelian commentary  literature  itself.  Doing  philosophy  had  more  and  more turned into exegesis, that is to say into the study and interpretation of the works of the great classics.7 The actual practice of teaching and doing phi-4 Up-to-date overviews in Cavallo 1989, 1994. For the disappearance of literary works that were no longer taught see Irigoin 1994, 72-6. 
5 For the history of transmission in general see Reynolds and Wilson 1978, Wilson 1983. 
6 Cf. Schäublin 1977, and e.g. Procl.  TP  i.2, p. 10.1-4. 
7 P. Hadot 1987, Sedley 1989a, 97-103, Barnes et al. 1991, 4-7, Baltes in Dörrie and Baltes 1993, 162-6, Erler 1993. For Demetrius of Laconia's exegesis of Epicurus see Puglia 1988, and the comments of Roselli 1990, who compares Galen's practice. For the commentaries on Aristotle see the papers in Sorabji 1990, with useful bibliography 484-524; for those on Plato Westerink 1990, lxi-lxxvi, Dörrie and Baltes 1993, 20-54, 162-226. For what should be taught and how see I. Hadot 1990, 1991, Mansfeld 1994b. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
p r i m a r y   s o u r c e s
5
losophy therefore hardly encouraged the study of the original works written  by  representatives  of  other  schools  of  thought.  Accordingly,  in  the later  exegetical  literature  concerned  with  Plato  and  Aristotle  the  doctrines of the Hellenistic philosophers that could not be assimilated survive, if at all, in a fossilized form, that is to say as objections or alternatives that were worth remembering precisely because they had been neutralized, and so provided useful material for training one's students. 
ii Primary sources
The extant primary sources are very few. Epicureanism has fared comparatively  well,  because  we  still  have  three  didactic  letters  written  by Epicurus  himself  as  well  as  a  collection  of  aphorisms,  the  so-called   Key Doctrines ( KD), all preserved in Diogenes Laertius book x.8 The letters are the  To Herodotus, dealing with physics, the  To Pythocles, dealing with cosmology and meteorology, and the  To Menoeceus, dealing with ethics. It is important to recognize that these letters do not work at the same level. In the proems to the first two Epicurus makes a distinction between those who diligently study all his works and others who for one reason or other are not in a position to devote their life to the study of nature. For the latter the (lost) so-called greater  Greater Abstract (from the multi-book treatise   On  Nature)  had  been  especially  written  ( Ep.  Hdt.  35),  whereas  the Ep. Hdt.  has  been  composed  as  an   aide-mémoire   for  the  accomplished Epicurean who no longer needs to go into the details (cf.  Ep. Hdt.  83). At Ep. Pyth. 84-5 Epicurus says that a succinct account of cosmo-meteorology will be useful both for beginners and for those who are too busy to study the subject in depth. The  Ep. Pyth. therefore is on the same level as the lost  Greater Abstract, while the  Ep. Hdt.  is an entirely di◊erent sort of work. We are not in a position to read it with the eyes of its original public,  because  only  (quite  large)  fragments  of  a  number  of  books  of  the On Nature  have  been  preserved  among  the  remains  of  the  library  at Herculaneum.9 The  Ep. Men. is directed at young as well as at old readers, so presumably is a combination of introduction and  aide-mémoire, though the protreptic element predominates. The  KD  is a sort of catechism.10
The remaining scraps of primary material are scanty indeed. Diogenes 8 Another  collection,  the  so-called   Gnomologium  Vaticanum (not  to  be  confused  with  the  other Gnom. Vat. edited by L. Sternbach 1963), first published by Wotke 1888, contains fragments of Epicurus (among which several sayings from the  KD), and others, among whom Metrodorus. 
Further fragments, among which again several from the  KD, are incorporated in the inscription of Diogenes of Oenoanda; text in M. F. Smith 1993. 
9 See below, n. 20. 
10 For the role of such compendia in the Epicurean community see I. Hadot 1969a, 53-4, I. Hadot 1969b, see below, p. 670. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
6
s o u r c e s
Laertius  has  preserved  catalogues  of  the  works  of  the  more  important Hellenistic  philosophers,11 but  these  are  not  always  complete.  For Epicurus, for instance, we are only given a selection, while the full and systematic  bibliography  of  Chrysippus  breaks  o◊  half  way  because  the unique ancestor from which our extant manuscripts derive had already been damaged. For Stoicism we have the  Hymn to Zeus  by Cleanthes preserved  in  Stobaeus.12 We  also  have  the  remains  of  part  of  Chrysippus'
 Logical Investigations ( PHerc. 307)13 and fragments of anonymous treatises, preserved in the library at Herculaneum. A large number of fragmentary scrolls containing the doctrines of minor Epicureans have also survived at Herculaneum. Further papyrus fragments have been found in Egypt.14
Other first-hand evidence for the Hellenistic philosophers consists of verbatim quotations in a variety of authors, a number of whom only cite in order to refute. Pyrrho did not write anything, so for early Pyrrhonism we mainly have to rely on his disciple Timon, of whose works only fragments are extant. All our other evidence is at one or more removes from the originals and consists of various forms of reportage. 
iii Secondary sources
For our information about Hellenistic philosophy we are therefore for the most  part  dependent  on  peripheral  sources.15 In  this  section,  I  shall briefly enumerate the more important among the works and authors that are involved. The earliest evidence is from about the mid-first century bc, and the fact that it is at our disposal at all is in two cases due to events which were rather unfortunate for those concerned. 
In 46 bc the great rhetorician, orator and statesman Cicero, who had studied  philosophy  and  read  philosophical  literature  during  his  whole active  life  and  already  published  works  on  political  philosophy  from  a 11 Similarly, Soranus is said to have composed a   Lives of Physicians and Schools and Writings, ten books,  Suda  i.4,  407.23-4.  The  more  important  catalogues  are  at  D.L.  vi.80  (Diogenes  the Cynic),  viii.4  (Zeno),  vii.162  (Aristo),  vii.166  (Herillus),  vii.167  (Dionysius),  vii.174-5
(Cleanthes),  vii.170  (Sphaerus),  vii.189-202  (Chrysippus),  x.24  (Metrodorus),  x.25
(Polyaenus), and x.27-8 (Epicurus). 
12 Nothing is known about its  Sitz im Leben; I suspect that it may have served as an easily memorized compendium of Stoic thought. This would help to explain why it has been preserved. At any  rate  Cleanthes'  four  lines  of  prayer  to  Zeus-and-Destiny  according  to  Epictetus  will  be always 'ready at hand' ( procheiron), Epict.  Diss. iii 22.95, iv 4.34;  Ench. 53. For this technical term see I. Hadot 1969a, 58 n. 107. 
13 Preliminary text at  FDS  698. 
14 Eventually, this material will be better accessible in the  CPF  which for pieces whose author is known proceeds in alphabetical order. 
15 Glucker  1991  has  carried  out  the  interesting  experiment  of  reconstructing  in  outline  what would be our view of Plato if only the late derivative reports were still extant. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
s e c o n d a r y   s o u r c e s
7
mostly  Platonic  and  Stoic  point  of  view,  was  forced  to  retire  from  the political scene. He had just written a short tract entitled  Stoic Paradoxes, six rhetorical essays on philosophical issues. Because he wanted to continue to be of service to society, or at least to the 'good people', he decided to bring Greek philosophy to the Roman world by composing a series of philosophical treatises.16 Some of these are dialogues in which issues in systematic philosophy are set out and discussed from the points of view of the major Hellenistic schools, namely by Epicurean, Stoic and Academic speakers. But in most of his other works too Cicero attempted to present the divergent options fairly fully, so that the reader would be in a position to make up his own mind. As a rule he does not take sides, though he indicates which point of view seems most plausible to him, or most useful - at least for the time being. 
These works, the sequence of which by and large conforms to that of the parts of philosophy, but which fail to provide a complete treatment, were written in an unbelievably short span of time, from 45 to 43 bc. He started by writing a pamphlet, the  Hortensius (lost), in which he warmly recommended  the  study  of  philosophy.  Next  came  the   Academics,  of which two di◊erent editions were published. We still have the first part of the first book of the second edition, and the second book of the first; the former  gives  an  overview  of  the  three  main  divisions  of  philosophy, namely  logic,  physics,  ethics,  and  the  latter  deals  with  epistemological questions  from  Stoic  and  sceptic  angles.  Next  are  the  still  extant  five books of the  On the Chief Ends of Good and Evil. In 44 bc, he first wrote the Tusculan Disputations  in five books, consisting of disputes about questions of  major  practical  importance  between  an  anonymous  and  dominating master (Cicero himself ) and an anonymous respondent. In the last book, for instance, the master argues that all the philosophers worth the name are agreed, or almost, that virtue is su√cient for happiness, but does so without committing himself on the nature of either happiness or virtue. 
Next is the  On the Nature of the Gods, in three books, with one large and several small gaps in the third book which contains the Academic counter-arguments against the Stoic position. This work is not a theological treatise only, but also an important source for Stoic physics and cosmology 16 Cicero describes the works he had written and still plans to write in the autobibliography at Div.  ii.1-4;  cf.  also  the  excursus  at   ND  i.6-7,  and  see  P.  L.  Schmidt  1978,  Steinmetz  1990. 
Rawson 1975, 230-48, Schofield 1986b, 48-51, and Powell 1995a, 7-11 are useful brief surveys. 
MacKendrick 1989 is a detailed study of the corpus, with summaries of each work and discussion of sources and influences; Görler and Gawlick 1994 is an overview of the corpus (including the  rhetorical  treatises)  and  an  up-to-date  introduction  to  the  philosophy.  For   Tusc.  see  also Douglas 1995. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
8
s o u r c e s
because of the central role that the gods play in the Stoic conception of the cosmos.17 The   On  Divination  in  two  books  follows;  divination  was  an important issue in Stoic philosophy and a fact of Roman life. Book one argues pro, book two contra. The more technical  On Fate, which treats a closely related topic, the arguments pro and contra determinism, survives only  in  mutilated  form.  Two  rather  literary  essays,  On  Old  Age  and   On Friendship, have also survived. Cicero further wrote the  Topics,18 a treatise on  various  forms  of  argument  which  is  more  rhetorical  than  logical. 
Finally he wrote the  On Duties  in three books, dedicated to his profligate son. This is a treatise, and a sternly moralistic one, in which he declines to furnish arguments against the rather dogmatic stance adopted. It should finally  be  added  that  the  rhetorical  treatises  composed  by  Cicero  in  his youth  and  middle  age  are  interesting  sources  for  certain  aspects  of Hellenistic philosophy too, and of course also for the history of rhetoric. 
Cicero was not the only person to promote philosophy in the Rome of his day. His younger contemporary Lucretius (died before 50 bc) wrote an epic poem in six books entitled  On the Nature of Things,19 which may have been published from his papers after his death. It deals with the whole of physics  (including  e.g.  psychology  and  history  of  civilization)  from  the Epicurean point of view and is in fact an attempt to convert its readers to what we may call the gospel of Epicurus. It is one of the most important sources for Epicurean philosophy still extant. 
We also have the carbonized remains of the philosophical library of a villa near Herculaneum, which was buried and thus preserved by an erup-tion of the Vesuvius in ad 79 and dug up in the eighteenth century.20 The majority of these scrolls had been brought to the villa by a professional philosopher,  the  Epicurean  Philodemus  who  was  a  contemporary  of Cicero,  or  been  produced  there  under  his  supervision  or  by  his  successors.21 Needless  to  say,  they  have  been  very  much  damaged,  firstly  by nature, then not only by the patient human attempts to unwind and preserve  them  but  also  by  stupidity  and  neglect.  Apart  from  important 17 See below, pp. 758-62. 
18 Not on a boat; see Immisch 1928. 
19  De Rerum Natura  translates  Peri Phuseo-s, the title traditionally given to works by Presocratic philosophers such as that of Empedocles (much admired by Lucretius) or to treatises dealing with the philosophy of nature, like Epicurus' own  On Nature. Note that Cic.  Acad. ii.73 translates Metrodorus of Chius' title as  De natura. 
20 Short overview of the contents with references to the literature in Dorandi 1995b; catalogues of the papyri: Gigante 1979, Capasso 1989. 
21 See Cavallo 1983, 58-65, 1984, 6-23, who further points out that the Epicurus scrolls have to be dated to the third-second centuries and will be copies of the holdings of the school at Athens; those with the works of Demetrius of Laconia date to the second-first centuries bc and are contemporary with the author. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
s e c o n d a r y   s o u r c e s
9
remains of works by Epicurus and several other Epicureans (Carneiscus, Polyaenus,  Polystratus,  Demetrius  of  Laconia),  the  library  comprises quite a number of writings composed by Philodemus himself.22 It would seem that several of these are based on memoranda of lectures ( scholai)23
of Philodemus' masters. In some cases even parts of the drafts survive.24
These  books  provide  us  with  important  insights  into  the  discussions which took place both inside the Epicurean school and with opponents, e.g.  the  Stoics,  and  so  are  an  important  source  of  information  for Hellenistic Stoicism too. Philodemus wrote among other things on signs, theology, ethical subjects, literary theory and rhetoric. Of particular relevance are the remains of his historical treatise, entitled  Arrangement of the Philosophers (Συ!νταξι τω4ν ιλοσο!ων), especially the two books dealing with the Academics and the Stoics. Of great interest too is his polemical treatise  On the Stoics.25
Among the many works of the Jewish exegete of the Old Testament, Philo of Alexandria (died after ad 40), there are also several philosophical  treatises  which  contain  a  considerable  amount  of  information  on Hellenistic  philosophy.  Two  of  these,  On  the  Eternity  of  the  World  and That Every  Good  Man  is  Free,  are  extant  in  Greek;  the  other  two,  On Providence 26 and  Alexander or Whether Irrational Animals Possess Reason, in a very literal sixth-century Armenian translation. Philo discussed topics which  were  of  interest  to  an  orthodox  Jewish  audience,  and  in  some ways  his  position  is  comparable  to  that  of  Cicero   vis-à-vis  his  Roman public. Like other Jews before and a whole crowd of Christian authors after him, he was convinced that the Greek philosophers had been either directly  inspired  by  God  or  cribbed  their  doctrines  from  the  Old Testament. Accordingly, their views could be used to interpret the Old Testament  (as  Philo  did  in  his  treatises  devoted  to  the  exegesis  of  the
'books of Moses') or to discuss issues which arose in the context of its interpretation.27 For this reason, commentaries and homilies by learned Christians  on  individual  books  and  passages  of  the  Old  as  well  as  the New  Testament  may  contain  sections  that  are  of  interest  for  the historiography of philosophy, including Hellenistic philosophy, as long 22 For modern editions see list of editions of sources and fragments, and bibliography. The villa also seems to have possessed a text of Lucretius, see Kleve 1989; but the fragments are minimal. 
23 The Epicurean Diogenes of Tarsus wrote a treatise entitled  Epilektai Scholai  or  Epilekta, in at least twenty books; see D.L. x.97,120,136,138. On  scholai  see Sedley 1989a, 103-4; cf. also Quint. 
 Inst. i. 7. 
24 Dorandi 1991d; cf. also Manetti 1994 on the  Anon. Lond. 
25 See Dorandi 1990a and 1990b; texts: Dorandi 1982b, 1991b, 1994b. 
26 Several passages in Greek from  Prov. ii have been preserved by Eusebius. 
27 Mansfeld 1988a, Runia 1990, Runia 1993; in general Ridings 1995. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
10
s o u r c e s
as one does not forget that these works have been composed from a particular point of view. 
The date of the remains of a more general work, or works, by a certain Arius Didymus remains uncertain;28 it may be as late as the third century ad. A  systematic  treatment  of  Stoic  and  of  Peripatetic  ethics  which with some  confidence  may  be  attributed  to  him  has  been  preserved  in Stobaeus.  Substantial  fragments  of  his  treatment  of  the  physics  of Aristotle  (and  his  followers)  and  of  the  physical  doctrines  of  the  more important Stoics have been preserved by Eusebius and Stobaeus.29 The title or titles of the work or works are not certain; fragments are quoted as from  the   On  Sects,  or   Abstract(s).  One  of  the  problems  is  that   epitome-
('abstract') may pertain either to an abridgement of Didymus' work or to abstracts made from, or representing, the originals themselves. 
Frequent references to Hellenistic philosophical doctrines are found in the  voluminous  writings  of  Plutarch  (after  45-after  120).  Of  special importance  are  treatises  such  as  the   On  Moral  Virtue,  and  the  polemical works against the Stoics and the Epicureans30 which contain numerous verbatim  quotations.  The  anti-Epicurean  treatises  are  the   That  Epicurus Makes  a  Pleasant  Life  Impossible,  the   Reply  to  Colotes  and  the   Is  'Live Unknown' a Wise Precept?.  The treatises directed against the Stoics are the On  Stoic  Self-Contradictions,  the   Against  the  Stoics  on  Common  Conceptions, and an abstract of the  The Stoics Talk More Paradoxically than the Poets. The even more voluminous extant works of Galen ( c.  130- c.  210) are also pep-pered with references and verbatim quotations (but the special treatises which he devoted to Stoic and Epicurean philosophy are lost).31 Of major importance is his great treatise  On the Doctrines of Plato and Hippocrates, in which he argues against Chrysippus' philosophy of mind and ethics, and attempts to pin down his opponent by verbatim quotation on a fairly generous scale.32 At  PHP  viii.2.12-14, Galen describes his method by saying that he does not explain 'every expression, as writers of commentaries do', 28 The identification of Arius Didymus with the Stoic Arius, court philosopher to the emperor Augustus, has been challenged by Heine 1869, 613-14 and Göransson 1995, 203-26. 
29 Moraux 1973, 259-443, Kahn 1983, Long 1983a, Hahm 1990; for the physical fragments Diels 1879, 69-87, 447-72, and Moraux 1973, 277-305 (on the Peripatetic section only). Göransson 1995, 206-7, 219-26, argues that the attribution to Didymus of the section on Stoic ethics is less certain than that of the section on the Peripatos, and that the provenance of the majority of the anonymous fragments in Stobaeus attributed to Arius Didymus by Diels is problematic. 
The  latter  argument  is  answered  by  Runia  1996a,  cf.  in  general  Mansfeld  and  Runia  1997, 238-64. 
30 Babut 1969, Hershbell 1992a, 1992b. A number of philosophical works by Plutarch have been lost; see list in Einarson and De Lacy 1967, 2. 
31 Titles at  Lib. Prop. xix 47-8. 
32 Vegetti 1986, Tieleman 1996; in general Hankinson 1992. Much remains to be done on Galen as a source for Greek philosophy. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
s e c o n d a r y   s o u r c e s
11
but  only  'those  statements  which  give  consistency  to  the  doctrine'.  A selective  use  of  the  commentary  method  by  a  person  who  did  write  a number  of  commentaries  dealing  with  every  expression,  namely  on Hippocratic works. Galen is also our major and in many cases only source for  Hellenistic  medicine,33 and  his  essay   On  Sects  for  Beginners  is  still  a most  useful  introduction  to  the  doctrines  of  the  principal  medical schools. Another important source for Hellenistic medicine is the second part of the so-called  Anonymus Londinensis,34 to be dated to the second century ad, and information on the Dogmatists and Empiricists is also found in the proem of Celsus  De Medicina, written in the early first century.35
Much information, though relatively little verbatim quotation (at least of Hellenistic philosophers, Timon excepted), is to be found in the works of  the  Neopyrrhonist  philosopher-cum-physician  Sextus  Empiricus (probably second century ad). These are the treatise  Outlines of Pyrrhonism in three books and the composite work  Adversus mathematicos, consisting of a treatise (now) in six books  Against the Professors (of grammar, mathematics etc.,  M  i-vi) and of the remaining books of the original  Adversus mathematicos,  viz.  two   Against  the  Logicians ( M  vii-viii),  two   Against  the Physicists ( M  ix-x) and one  Against the Ethicists ( M  xi).36 From the titles of  M
vii-xi it  is  clear  that  Sextus'  approach  is  not  only  polemical  but  also systematic. His aim is not to tell us what certain historical figures believed (and then to show the weaknesses of these beliefs), but rather to tell us what, in general, the Dogmatists believe and then to show the weaknesses of Dogmatism. Yet the Stoics are his most cherished opponents ( PH  i 65). 
One of our most precious sources is the already-mentioned treatise in ten books of the otherwise unknown Diogenes Laertius (probably  c.  230), entitled  Lives and Maxims of those who Have Distinguished themselves in Philosophy and the Doctrines of Each Sect.  37 The Minor Socratics are treated in book ii, the  Academics  up  to  Clitomachus  in  book  vi,  the  Peripatetics  up  to 33 Deichgräber 1930, W. D. Smith 1979, von Staden 1982, von Staden 1989, Lloyd 1991b, von Staden  1991.  On  the  various  connections  of  the  Hellenistic  schools  with  Hippocrates  and Hippocratic medicine see Kudlien 1989. 
34 Text: Diels 1893; new edn in preparation, see Manetti 1986. 
35 Commentary by Mudry 1982; see also Deuse 1993. 
36 For the original form of  M  and the suggestion that the actual books vii-xi were originally vi-x see Blomqvist 1974, who hypothesizes that the original   M  i-v are lost. But the argument of Cortassa 1989 that the actual books iii-iv originally were one and that the lost books of  M  are fewer  is  more  plausible.  On  Sextus  see  Annas  1992b,  Classen  1992,  Decleva  Caizzi  1992b, Döring  1992,  Hülser  1992,  Ioppolo  1992,  Isnardi  Parente  1992,  Sedley  1992a.  Note  that  in these papers Sextus' systematic presentations have been carved up according to prosopography and philosophical school, though Decleva Caizzi sketches a programme for the study of Sextus as an author. For a bibliography of the important writings on Sextus and related sceptic themes by K. Janácěk see Barnes 1992, 4298-9. 
37 Martini 1899, 82-3, 86-7. For Soranus' similar title see above, n. 11. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
12
s o u r c e s
Demetrius and Heraclides in book v, the Cynics up to Menedemus in book vi,  the  Stoics  in  book  vii (which  originally  ended  with  Cornutus),38 the Pyrrhonists in book ix, and Epicurus and the Epicureans in book x.39 From the sequence of schools treated it is clear that Diogenes' approach is more historical in our sense of the word than for instance that of Sextus. 
Other authors and books may be treated more briefly. A rather interesting  little  handbook  of  uncertain  date  is  pseudo-Andronicus   On  the A◊ections and the Virtues,40 which provides parallels for the treatment of Stoic ethics in Diogenes Laertius and Arius Didymus and for the mix of Stoic and Peripatetic ethics at Cic.  Inv. ii.159-78. The works of Seneca and Epictetus  may  be  used,  though  with  caution,  for  the  understanding  of early Stoic ethics. A rather orthodox line seems to be followed by the first century ad Stoic Hierocles.41 In the  Attic Nights  of Aulus Gellius (second century ad), a work written to amuse and instruct rather than for purposes of serious study, we nevertheless find useful information concerning  Stoicism  and  Pyrrhonism.42 Among  the  works  of  Alexander  of Aphrodisias  (died  after  ad 20 0)  three  treatises  must  be  singled  out because a Peripatetic alternative to Stoic doctrines is o◊ered: the  On Mixture, the  On Fate, both extant in Greek, and the  On Providence  which survives in Arabic.43 These should be used with some caution because it is not  always  certain  that  the  Stoicism  Alexander  criticizes  is  Hellenistic. 
The learned Christian Clement of Alexandria (later part of the second century  ad),  whose  attitude  to  Greek  philosophy  is  indebted  to  that  of Philo,44 has worked important bits of information into the extant eight books  of  his   Stro-mata ( 'Patchworks');45 book  viii consists  of  abstracts,46
most of which deal with philosophical themes. Other works by Clement are also relevant in this respect, as are those of the learned Origen ( c.  185- c. 
250).47 The multi-book  Praeparatio Evangelica  of another not less learned Christian, Eusebius of Caesarea ( c.  260- c.  340), who was sitting in a splendid library, is a huge anthology of verbatim excerpts from a plurality of authors, with comments and connecting passages by Eusebius himself. In this  way,  passages  from  among  others  Arius  Didymus,  Diogenianus, 38 Mansfeld 1986, 358-60, Dorandi 1992a. 
39 Minor Socratics: Giannantoni 1986b, Knoepfler 1991; Academics: Long 1986a, Dorandi 1992b; Peripatetics:  Moraux  1986,  Sollenberger  1992;  Cynics:  Goulet-Cazé  1992;  Stoics:  Mansfeld 1986; Pyrrhonists: Barnes 1992; Epicurus: Mansfeld 1986, 373-9. On Diog. Laert. in general see Schwartz 1905, Mejer 1978, Mejer 1992. The manuscript tradition has been sorted out by Knoepfler 1991, but see Dorandi 1995c for additional information. 
40 Text in Glibert-Thirry 1977; both longer and shorter versions were in circulation . 
41 The text of the papyrus has been newly edited with commentary by Bastianini and Long 1992. 
42 Goulet 1989. 
43 On Alexander see Sharples 1987; texts in Todd 1976, Sharples 1983, Ruland 1976. 
44 Lilla 1970, Runia 1993, 132-56. Cf. also Spanneut 1957, Le Boulluec 1994. 
45 Méhat 1966. 
46 Nautin 1976. 
47 Dorival 1992. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
q u e l l e n f o r s c h u n g
13
Numenius  and  Aristocles  have  been  preserved  which  are  important  for the  history  of  Hellenistic  Stoicism,  Pyrrhonism,  and  Academic  scepticism. The first two books of the huge and invaluable anthology of Ioannes Stobaeus (fifth century), which survives only in mutilated form, are called Eclogae physicae et ethicae (' Selections Dealing with Physics and Ethics'). This systematically structured work has preserved much of Arius Didymus and Aëtius, but in the  Eclogae  as well as in the following books, the so-called Florilegium, other precious texts too have been preserved; we may recall, for instance, Cleanthes'  Hymn ( Ecl. i.1.12). 
One of the factors involved in the survival of these secondary sources is the popularity of an author as a literary model and/or his usefulness for Christian writers. Cicero and Plutarch, who were more famous for their non-philosophical works, were much admired, and Cicero's philosophical works proved useful to the Latin Fathers of the West.48 Philo survived because he was used and admired by some of the learned Christians of the East.49 Yet a good number of Plutarch's so-called  moralia, as well as some of Cicero's  philosophica, have been lost, and there are gaps in the corpus of Philo's writings too. 
iv  Quellenforschung
Understandably,  scholars  would  like  to  go  back  from  these  secondary sources  to  (the)  original  works,  or  at  least  to  intermediary  secondary sources closer in time to these originals and so, supposedly, truer to them. 
Because from a historical point of view the information provided by the original  work  of  a  philosopher  is  to  be  preferred  to  a  later  rendering, rehash, or reinterpretation, however competent or philosophically interesting, much work has been done to ferret out the lost original sources of the derivative sources for Hellenistic philosophy which we still have. We may for example ask ourselves whether Lucretius versified extant and/or lost works by Epicurus, or also used works by younger Epicureans. This is important for our view of Epicurus as well as of Lucretius. The rediscovery of Theophrastus' previously lost  Metarsiology, one of the works used in Epic.  Ep. Pyth., has shown that certain passages in Lucretius may derive from the  Greater Epitome-.  50 It is also worth our while to try to find out to what extent  Seneca  may  have  used  particular  works  of  Chrysippus 48 For  Cicero  see  Hagendahl  1958,  399-401,  1967,  52-168,  486-553,  Ogilvie  1978,  59-72, MacKendrick  1989,  258-60;  for  Lucretius  Hagendahl  1958,  9-88,  Ogilvie  1978,  15-16;  for Seneca Lausberg 1970, 14-35, Hagendahl 1967, 676-9, Trillitzsch 1971, Vol. i 120-85, Vol. ii 362-83, Ogilvie 1978, 72. 
49 Runia 1993, 16-30. 
50 Mansfeld 1992b (J. Schmidt 1990, 34-7 is out of date). 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
14
s o u r c e s
directly.51 This kind of inquiry has been traditionally called  Quellenfors-
 chung (or  Quellenanalyse,  Quellenkritik), derived from the German word for source,  Quelle. This enjoys a bad reputation today, especially among students  of  ancient  philosophy,52 though  our  scholarship  is  still  much dependent  on  the  results  of  the  largely  forgotten  investigations  carried out in the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries.53 But one instance which does not know itself is as much  à la mode  as ever, the quest for the historical  Socrates.  Yet  the  only  Socrates  available  is  a   plurale  tantum, namely  Plato's ⫹Xenophon's⫹Aeschines'  etc.,  etc.,  to  be  augmented with  a  crowd  of  Socrateses  according  to  the  various  receptions  in  the Hellenistic and later schools. In biblical scholarship the method is as alive as ever, for example in the study of the synoptic Gospels and the Pentateuch. As a matter of fact,  Quellenforschung  is a relative of another genea-logical method which today is still considered to be indispensable, namely stemmatology, or the establishing of a family tree for a plurality of extant manuscripts  containing  a  text,  or  a  corpus  of  texts,  though  we  have become aware of the phenomenon of so-called open transmission.54 An often used method (deriving from New Testament studies) is that of the printing of similar texts in parallel columns.55
We may distinguish between two main models, or forms, of  Quellen-
 forschung. The first is the tracing back of a single extant work, for instance the  Iliad  or the  Odyssey, to a plurality of sources; the hypothesis that these epics have been combined from a number of independent shorter poems, to which other material was added later, was already formulated in the seventeenth  century.  The  second  is  the  tracing  back  of  a  plurality  of extant texts, or parts thereof, to a hypothetical single source. Just as all lagers are the o◊spring of  Pilsener Urquell, so a plurality of manuscripts may  derive  from  a  single  lost  ancestor,  the  so-called  archetype.56 An exceedingly influential instance of this second type of  Quellenforschung  is the  reconstruction  of  the  lost  source  commonly  called  Aëtius,  which 51 Fillion-Lahille 1984, 51-118. 
52 In other areas of classics it can still, or again, be practised quite successfully; see e.g. Brunt 1980
(ancient historians), Cameron 1993 (Greek anthology). 
53 For precedents and parallels in Old Testament studies see Ackroyd 1970, Kraus 1982, Smend 1984,  for  New  Testament  studies  Evans  1970,  265-77,  Kümmel  1970,  Mansfeld  and  Runia 1997, 95-7. 
54 Diels  1879,  40  combines  the  direct,  indirect  and  MSS  traditions  of  ps.Plutarch  in  a  single stemma.  Cf.  also  Bernheim  1908,  396,  40 0,  403  (on  texts),  and  420  (on  MSS).  See  further Mansfeld 1998. 
55 Mansfeld and Runia 1997, 88-94, 116-20. 
56 Mansfeld and Runia 1997, 88, 91. A comparable application of this geneticist paradigm is the construction of the family tree of Indo-European languages and the hypothesis of a common lost mother tongue (and lost intermediary ancestors of e.g. the group of Germanic, or Celtic, languages). This began with Schlegel 1808 and esp. Bopp 1816; see e.g. Timpanaro 1972. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
q u e l l e n f o r s c h u n g
15
according to Diels' analysis is the ancestor, or source of, the extant  Placita of pseudo-Plutarch and of the parallel sections in Stobaeus and Theodo-ret.57
These  two  forms  may  be  combined  in  several  ways.  A  plurality  of sources  may  for  instance  be  posited  for  (parts  of )  a  particular  book  of Philodemus,  or  Cicero,  or  Lucretius,  or  Philo,  or  Sextus,  or  Diogenes Laertius, and sections in these authors which are very much similar may then be traced back to single sources that have been lost.58 This procedure  may  be  of  help  in  understanding  passages  which  remain  in  part obscure when studied in isolation, and also in eliminating errors. Furthermore,  noticing  correspondences  brings  out  the  di◊erences  much  more clearly, and so helps to determine the stance of an individual author. It goes without saying, however, that pinpointing a source, or shared tradition, is not equivalent to interpreting a thought. Source-criticism should be no more than an unavoidable means to an end, that is, the understanding of ideas in philosophy. 
We should moreover not overlook that (to mention only one instance) an author  such  as Cicero, though not a  professional philosopher, really knew a lot of philosophy by heart, as it were.59 He has one of his speakers (Cotta) address his opponent as follows:
I have memorized all your arguments, and in the right order. ( ND  iii.10) 57 Diels 1879, Runia 1989, Mansfeld 1990a, 1992c, Laks 1996; Diels' reconstruction revised in Mansfeld and Runia 1997. On the  Plac. see below; the Arabic translation of pseudo-Plutarch (not of Aëtius!) has been edited and translated by Daiber 1980; the Greek text has been newly edited by Mau 1971, and edited and translated with some comments by Lachenaud 1993. The variety of  Quellenforschung  practised by e.g. Corssen 1878, a pupil of Usener just like Diels, has been  far  less  successful  because  it  does  not  much  more  than  substitute  one  name,  e.g. 
Posidonius, for another, e.g. Cicero, or (when a plurality of sources is postulated) is based on the assumption of contradictions in the text. This is pseudo-precision, and highly subjective. 
But exceptions exist; cf. below, n. 59  ad fin. 
58 For instance the Epicurean doxographies in Phld.  Piet. ( PHerc.  1428) and Cic.  ND  i (below, text to n. 80), and sections in Cic.  ND  iii and S.E.  M  ix dealing with the gods (see below, p. 475), have so much in common that a shared source is plausible. Baltes, in Dörrie and Baltes 1993, 165-6, points  out  that  interpretations  of  individual  Plato  passages  in  Cicero,  Philo,  Seneca  and Plutarch can only be explained against the backdrop of a commentary tradition. 
59 So rightly Boyancé 1936, but note that his argument against  Quellenforschung (cf. above, n. 57) is based on Cicero and literature related to Cicero alone, and that he has its history begin with Madvig's edn. of  Fin. of 1839 (Madvig, followed by others, took  Ad Att.  xii.52.3 too literally, where Cicero seems to say that his works are mere 'transcripts',  apographa; the text moreover is corrupt). Yet Boyancé accepts that in certain privileged cases source-critical comparison is useful, a point often missed by his followers, e.g. Lévy 1996. On the correct and incorrect uses of Quellenanalyse  Bernheim  (1908)  358-503,  529-70  is  still  very  much  worth  reading;  see  esp. 
404-13 on how to reconstruct lost sources ('Nachweis verlorener Quellen'), with references to predecessors of Boyancé dealing with the sources of Livy, or the traditions of Carolingian literature. See now the judicious remarks on the main source (Panaetius' Περι' του4 καθη!κοντο) in relation to  O◊., and on Cicero's own contributions, in Dyck 1996, 18-21, and his commentary, passim. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
16
s o u r c e s
The practice of memorizing the main points of a speech in the right order was taught in the rhetorical schools, which makes Cotta's statement dramatically credible. Cicero writes to his friend Atticus for books and has his own libraries. Nevertheless, in some cases his sources were things he knew and remembered, or believed he knew and remembered, rather than things he had just looked up or was directly translating, or paraphrasing, from a book in front of him, though he often did translate or check. But his attitude towards his sources was quite free; speaking of his treatment of Stoic ethics, he points out:
I shall follow them [. . .] not as a translator but shall, as I am wont to do, draw from these sources what seems right, using my own judgement and making my own decisions. ( Fin. iii.7)
So  Quellenforschung, even when done properly, may remain somewhat inexact. 
v Genres
History of philosophy not as philosophy but as history, or as the ideal of an impartial and exact rendering of what earlier philosophers said rather than an interpretation, evaluation or even critique of what they said, implied or meant,  is  not  an  ancient  genre.  In  fact,  the  methodological  principle involved  was  first  clearly  formulated  and  applied  in  the  nineteenth  century. In antiquity history of philosophy was part of philosophy, just as, at least in certain cases, the history of medicine was part of medical science. 
The previous history of philosophy and medicine was seen as important from  a  systematic  and  scientific  rather  than  a  purely  historical  point  of view. This is in agreement with the growing 'classicist' tendency, beginning in the first century bc, to appeal to famous figures from the distant past - this not being 'past',  passé,  vergangen. Such a systematic approach to one's philosophical predecessors is already found in Plato, and on a much larger  and  far  more  influential  scale  in  Aristotle.  Originality  or  novelty ( kainotomia) was a dirty word; the various philosophical schools tended to consider  themselves  (or  were  considered  by  others)  to  belong  with  the general tradition of Greek philosophy and to depend on past masters. 
We should therefore look a bit more closely at the various ancient genres which, in a loose sense of the word, we may call historiographic, or which contain material that is important for the history of philosophy: (i) doxography, (ii) biography, (iii) literature on sects ( Peri Haireseo-n), (iv) literature on the successions of the philosophers in their respective schools Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
d o x o g r a p h y
17
( Diadochai), (v) collections of maxims ( gno-mai), apophthegms, anecdotes, pronouncement stories ( chreiai), and brief abstracts,60 and (vi) introductions ( Eisago-gai). It should however be borne in mind that these genres are not rigidly distinct.61
vi Doxography
The widely used and frequently misused modern term doxography was coined by Diels for a genre he reconstructed and which he believed to be reliable  because  he  regarded  Theophrastus'  lost   Physical  Tenets ( Physikai doxai) as the ultimate ancestor of the tradition.62 This genre was, in his view, to be sharply distinguished from fanciful biography. There is some truth to this distinction,63 but as we shall see it does not hold generally. 
Unavoidably Diels also had to allow for a mixed bio-doxographic genre. 
Doxography according to him is the systematic description of the tenets ( placita,  doxai,  areskonta), or doctrines, of the philosophers. 
But  Diels  is  responsible  for  a  confusion.  The  genre  he  derives  from Theophrastus, which deals with collections of briefly formulated tenets from a systematic point of view, should not right away be put on a par with the often extensive description of the doctrines of a single philosopher,  or  school,  such  as  we  find  in  the  individual  books  of  Diogenes Laertius' treatise, or in Cicero. Oddly enough, Diels neglected to inquire for what purposes these collections of contrasting  doxai  had been assembled.64 From the extant  Placita  of pseudo-Plutarch (restricted to tenets in the fields of natural philosophy) and related large and smaller excerpts in other  authors  which  he  very  successfully  traced  back  to  a  single  lost work,65 it  is  already  quite  clear  that  such  tracts  are  concerned  with 60 The  distinction  between  a   gno-me-  and  an  apophthegm/anecdote  is  that  the  latter  links  the maxim to a specific person; the   chreia  often develops this further into a little story (Nassen Poulos 1981). Useful survey of Greek collections of  gno-mai  in Küchler 1979, 236-61; for the problems involved in the reconstruction of the gnomic traditions, for which the material surviving in Arabic appears to be indispensable, see Gutas 1975. Full and exemplary treatment at Berger 1984, 1049-74, 1092-110. In anthologies material could survive anonymously; see e.g. 
the cento of fragments of Epicurus at Porph.  Marc. 27-32 which presumably derives from a florilegium. 
61 In general see Berger 1984, 1036-48, and for the genres mentioned in the text Mansfeld 1986, 303-10. 
62 Diels followed his  Doktorvater  Usener, oblivious of the fact that Theophrastus too had a sort of Doktorvater, viz. Aristotle. For the correct title of Theophrastus' treatise (called  Physiko-n Doxai by Usener and Diels) see Mansfeld 1990a, 1992c, and for Diels' method Mansfeld and Runia 1997, 64-110. 
63 D.L. iii.47 distinguishes the  bios 'life', from the  doxai 'doctrines', of Plato, and vii.38 the  bios  of Zeno from the  dogmata  of the Stoics. 
64 Mansfeld 1990a, 1992c. 
65 See above, pp. 14-15. We may note in passing that the  epitome-  of ps.Plutarch is extant, while Aëtius and his predecessors are lost; clearly, shorter works have a better chance to survive. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
18
s o u r c e s
 problems  and the alternative solutions to these problems provided by the philosophers of nature, and in some cases doctors and astronomers. In the Placita  literature the tenets are more important than the names of those said  to  have  held  them.  Names  often  occur  in  systematic  rather  than chronological order, the system of arrangement being that of the tenets, and name-labels may be attached in a cavalier way. It may happen that tenets which we can check because the original ultimate sources (e.g. Plato, Aristotle) survive have been compressed and modified almost beyond recognition. Caution is therefore an absolute must whenever no such check is possible. The problems themselves (coinciding with chapters or parts of chapters) are arranged according to a systematic pattern based on standard  topics  and  check-lists  of  questions  relating  to  these  topics.  For instance  on  the  gods  the  following  questions  are  asked:  do  they  exist? 
what are they, i.e. what do they consist of ? how are they, i.e. what are their attributes (e.g. what is their shape)? where are they?, etc.66
I see no objection to calling Aëtius a doxographer and would provisionally  define  a  doxographer  of  the  Aëtian  type  as  someone  who  provides materials for discussion both for the purpose of training and as a starting-point  for  further  research.  The  author  of  an  earlier  collection  which according to Diels is Aëtius' source and which was used by e.g. Varro and Cicero however, seems to have had an axe to grind and been a person of sceptic leanings, desirous of producing deadlocks through the disagreement of the tenets ( diapho-nia). Such a diaphonic structure is still clearly recognizable in Aëtius. I believe that this earlier work, or rather (one of ) its predecessor(s), was already used by Chrysippus.67
This brings us to doxography at one remove, namely the exploitation of doxographic materials relating to a definite issue in physics, psychology, theology  and  metaphysics.  In  fact,  collections  of  the  Aëtius  type  were widely utilized. They o◊ered a frame of reference and enabled philosophers or scientists to provide an overview of and arguments against those views they wanted to discuss. Various motives could be involved: rejection, appropriation, revision, supplementation or complete replacement. 
Ethical doxographies were compiled for the same end. To give one example, Plutarch, before arguing in favour of his own view concerning moral virtue, writes:68
66 Aët. i.7, ii.4.15-17. These types of questions derive from Aristotle; see Mansfeld 1992c, 70-109, also for their impact on the treatment of philosophical issues in the later literature. 
67 Mansfeld 1989c. 
68 The doxography follows. The extensive doxography concerned with the  telos  at Clem.  Strom. 
ii.127.1-133.7 is structurally di◊erent from the brief one at Cic.  Fin. ii.34-5 and the fuller one at Fin. v.16-23; for those in Cicero see Algra 1997. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
o n   s e c t s
19
It is better to give a brief overview of the (tenets) of the others, not so much for the sake of the record as that my own view may become clearer and more firmly established when these others have been presented first. 
( Virt. Mor. 440e)
Readers  were  obviously  familiar  with  this  technique.  Aristotle  is  the important pioneer; he used his own collections of  doxai  which most of the time he used as a prelude to working out an original solution, in physics as well  as  in  ethics.  Epic.  Ep.  Pyth.  applied  the  method  in  a  way  which  is di◊erent from Aristotle's, because for certain problems in cosmo-meteorology  he  allowed  for  sets  of  equally  feasible  solutions,  rejecting  only those which flatly contradicted the phenomena.69 Wilamowitz, referring to  Woltjer's  book  on  Lucretius,  once  suggested  that  apart  from  the Peripatetic  doxographic  tradition  one  should  also  allow  for  and  try  to reconstruct an Epicurean tradition. I believe that this split is unnecessary and that the di◊erences can be explained in terms of the specific use made of the available material.70
The  Placita  of pseudo-Plutarch and its relatives and predecessors were used by numerous authors, from at least Chrysippus to Philoponus. But the sections in their works based on or inspired by doxographic overviews of  the  Aëtius  type  should  as  a  rule   not  be  called  doxographic.  This  also holds for comparable sections in Sextus (and presumably Aenesidemus), who needed doxographic collections of opposed views to produce suspension of judgement. The same goes for Philo, who selects tenets according to  agreement  or  disagreement  with  Scripture,  and  also  for  a  number  of Christian authors, who may argue that all the pagans were wrong, or that some among them were right to some extent. The use of a doxography as a first orientation may encourage an author to look up an original text, and to quote or paraphrase a passage or a few pages. To give an example, Cicero when writing  Tusc. checked Dicaearchus' own formulation of his view on the existence and location of the soul and its regent part ( Tusc. i.21). 
vii On sects
The  other  historiographic  genres  dealing  with  the  philosophies  of  the past are more di√cult to determine because clear examples are no longer extant,  or  at  least  not  completely  extant.71 The  treatise  of  Diogenes 69 See below, pp. 288-9, 505-7. 
70 Von Wilamowitz-Moellendor◊ 1881, 2 n. 1, Woltjer 1877; Mansfeld 1994a. 
71 Useful overview of genres, authors and titles at Mejer 1978, 60-95. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
20
s o u r c e s
Laertius seems to be a combination of a variety of genres: biography, doxography (though not according to the Aëtian pattern), literature dealing with successions and with the sects, and collections of maxims and anecdotes  which  are  not  a  historiographic  genre  in  the  proper  sense  of  the word.72 This odd medley of the insipid and the invaluable has often puzzled scholars, but here the young Cicero provides us with the key.73 At Inv. ii.116-48, he deals with the interpretation of written documents such as wills and laws, which often allow of more than one interpretation. We are told how to tackle this problem; the most important piece of advice runs as follows:74
One ought to estimate what the writer meant  from the rest of his writings and from his acts, words, character and life, and to examine the whole document which contains the ambiguity in question in all its parts, to see if any thing agrees with our interpretation or is opposed to the sense in which our opponent interprets it. ( Inv. ii.117)
The backdrop of Cicero's advice is much wider and pertains to the study of written documents in general, especially in the fields of literature and philosophy. The study of the life, activities and sayings of a philosopher was regarded as an indispensable preliminary to that of his writings. In those cases where no books were available the 'life' itself, including acts and  apophthegms  etc.  and  in  some  cases  private  documents,  had  to su√ce. Conversely, if biographical data were unavailable they were made up from what a person wrote, or from what others were supposed to have written about him. Practices such as these gave ancient biography, or at least part of it, its bad name.75 But I am not now concerned with the reliability of the protean genre from a historical point of view but with its historic  function.  Life  and  work,  or  teaching,  have  to  be  in  agreement;  in some  cases  the  works  may  have  been  used  to  (re)construct  the  relevant aspects of the 'life', but the biography itself, be it detailed or compressed, was  certainly  believed  to  be  needed  to  understand  the  works  and  doctrines.76
72 On these as important ingredients in the biographies of philosophers see Gallo 1980, 13, Nassen Poulos 1981; in general Arrighetti 1994. For the fictitious aspect of certain types of  chreia  see Glucker 1988. Cf. also above, n. 60. Interesting hypothesis concerning Diogenes' method of composition in Goulet 1997. 
73 Mansfeld 1994b, 177-82. 
74 Cf. Cic.  Part. Or. 132, which is less clear. A more conventional treatment at e.g. [Cic.]  Rhet. Her. 
i.19-20,  ii.14,  Cic.  De  Or.  i.139-40,  Quint.  Inst.  vii.5.5-6;  cf.  Leeman  and  Pinkster  1981, 237-8. 
75 Leo  1901,  104-8,  Dihle  1970,  104-7,  Arrighetti  1987,  141-8,  164-7,  Momigliano  1993,  70. 
Canfora 1993 is a fine pastiche of a dubious ancient biography. 
76 See further Arrighetti 1994, Mansfeld 1994b, 177-91. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
o n   s e c t s
21
The literature  On Sects, a Hellenistic genre, dealt with the doctrines of the important philosophical and medical schools. Lost works with this title  are  attributed  to  various  people  by  Diogenes  Laertius,  and  have been used by him at one or more removes. The first to write a book on the  philosophical  sects  seems  to  have  been  Hippobotus.77 Important philosophers,  e.g.  the  Stoic  Panaetius  (D.L.  ii.87)  and  the  Academic sceptic  Clitomachus  (D.L.  ii.92)  wrote  works  with  this  title.  Galen's extant   On  Sects  for  Beginners  belongs  with  this  genre,  but  also  with another,  the   Eisago-gai  or   Introductions  literature.  The  remains  of  Arius Didymus' work(s) presumably belong here as well, and we may perhaps believe that it/they compared the doctrines of the main schools in the domains of logic, ethics and physics respectively.78 A brief abstract (not ethical but epistemological) is cited at Stob. ii.1.17 as 'Of Didymus: from the On Sects' (∆ιδυ!µου ε0κ του4 Περι' αι/ρε!σεων). One aim of this type of literature seems to be to o◊er reasonably objective information on the divergent  views.  But  it  could  also  serve  to  set  o◊  the  doctrines  more sharply against each other by way of a sort of blow-up of a chapter, or a set of chapters, in Aëtius. Another aim could be to defend the views of a particular school against those of the others. The word  hairesis (usually translated 'school' or 'sect') means 'choice' or 'option', then also 'what is chosen'.79 A choice for something as a rule also is a choice against something else, but a more or less impartial overview of the options that are open is also an option. 
A number of Cicero's philosophical works are composed according to this contrasting pattern too. In  ND, for instance, the di◊erent views of the Epicureans and the Stoics on the gods are treated in the first part of  ND  i and in ii respectively, and the Academic speaker argues against in the second part of i and in iii.  ND  i moreover includes at its beginning a doxography, or a survey of the contrasting tenets of the philosophers starting with  Thales  about  the  gods  from  an  Epicurean  point  of  view  ( ND
77 Remains of Hippobotus in Gigante 1983c. On medical works entitled  Against the Sects,  On the Empiricist Sect, and  On the Sect of Herophilus  see von Staden 1982, 77-80. Porph.  In Ptol. Harm. 
3.1-12 says that there are numerous  haireseis  of musical theorists, the most prominent being the Pythagorean  and  the  Aristoxenean;  5.11-13  cf.  25.4-6  he  cites  the   On  the  Di◊erence  of  the Pythagorean Musical Theory from the Aristoxenean  by Didymus 'the musician', on whom see Barker 1989, 230. 
78 Cf. above n. 28 and text thereto. The main mistake of Giusta 1964-7, which contains much useful material, is that he believes in the existence of a lost ethical doxography parallel to the physical doxography of Aëtius. 
79 How 'choice' could come to mean 'school of thought' - for which see Glucker 1978, 166-93 -
and then 'school'  tout court  is illustrated e.g. at Alb.  Intr. 150.15 H., where the person who has decided to become a Platonist is indicated as τα' Πλατωνο αι/ρουµε!νο 'one who takes Plato's side' (see LSJ  s.v. αι/ρε!ω b.2); cf. also Cic.  ND  i.85. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
22
s o u r c e s
I.18-43),80 ostensibly intended to shore up the argument that the  doxa  of Epicurus  is  the  only  correct  one,  but  simultaneously  providing  a  thoroughly doxographic introduction to the subject of the treatise. Accordingly,  ND  is  not  a  representative  of  a  'pure'  genre.  The  questions concerned with 'existence', 'what-it-is', 'how-it-is' which to a large extent determine the structure of the discussion in this work are familiar from the doxographies of the Aëtius type as well. The Greek term for such a general issue is  thesis, the Latin  quaestio infinita, i.e. an issue, or problem, which is not restricted to individuals or particulars. When you have such a  quaestio, the views about its solution will inevitably di◊er.81
Though some among Cicero's treatises in the field of ethics, i.e.  Tusc. 
and especially  O◊. , are more one-sided, the major work  Fin. is devoted to the  exposition  and  critical  comparison  of  the  various  views.  The  overviews  of  the  doctrines  of  the  schools  in  D.L.  ii-x,  I  believe,  are  also indebted to the literature  On Sects, for traces of comparison ( sunkrisis) are still visible.82 Though the sceptically inclined Cicero and the more irenic Diogenes Laertius want to inform their public rather than to take sides in the  dispute,  preferences  may  be  expressed  (Cicero  is  very  critical  of Epicureanism and not always fair,83 Diogenes favours it). Yet it is important to acknowledge that the works  On Sects  are written from the point of view that the doctrines are significantly divergent, that the views of the schools  are  in  many  ways  opposed  to  each  other,  and  that  -  as  Cicero approvingly says - this makes philosophy a really worthwhile and ongo-ing a◊air:
In  Greece  itself  philosophy  would  never  have  been  held  in  such  high honour, if it had not derived its vitality from the disputes and disagreements among its greatest practitioners. ( Tusc. ii.4)84
Again and again, Cicero highlights the disagreements of the philosophers,  both  from  one  school  to  another  or  within  one  and  the  same 80 Largely  paralleled  in  Phld.  Piet.  ( PHerc.  1428);  see  Diels  1879,  531-50,  Henrichs  1974,  and above, n. 58. Obbink (1996) argues that Philodemus is Cicero's immediate source, but this cannot be proved, and  Piet. may even have been written later than the  ND. 
81 Mansfeld 1990a, 3193-208, or 1992c, 70-93. On the  thesis  see Throm 1932. 
82 E.g. D.L. ii.86-90 (with reference to Panaetius,  On Sects) and x.136-8, critical comparison of the Epicureans and the Cyrenaics; vii.121 versus x.119, on the question whether the philosopher should behave as a Cynic; vii.127, contrast between Stoics and Peripatetics which recalls the argument of Cic.  Fin. iii-v. 
83 He sometimes exploits the vulgar misunderstanding of the ethics and fails to take notice of developments in the school; see Erler 1992b. But his treatment of Epicurus in  Tusc. v.26, 31, 73-5, 88-9 is quite fair. 
84 This point is applied to di◊erent views among the Christians by Orig.  Cels.  iii.12 (who adduces the philosophical as well as the medical sects); cf. further Greg. Thaum.  Or. Pan.  xiv.170-2 (text in Crouzel 1969). The biblical proof-text is  Gal.  5:20. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
s u c c e s s i o n s
23
school.85 Depending on the personal preferences or school allegiance of the author who is involved, this attitude may lead to subjective reporting, or even to the defence of a specific doctrine. Di◊erences of opinion within one school are also believed to be relevant. They are reported on a large scale e.g. in D.L. vii, on the Stoics. The author of the ethical doxography apud  Stob. ii.7, p. 42.5-6 explicitly says that he intends to report them. In the physical fragments of Arius Didymus di◊erences between individual Stoics are sometimes noted. The fact that in the ethical part the Stoics and the  Peripatetics  are  discussed   per  se  but  also  occasionally  compared  to each other conforms to the 'on sects' scheme of exposition. Numenius'
treatise on the di◊erences between the Academics and Plato makes disagreement its main theme and then argues for a return to the earlier doctrine of Pythagoras-cum-Plato. 
Accounts of doctrines in logic, physics and ethics in the literature  On Sects  may to some extent be based on  Introductions  to ( Eisago-gai) or  Brief Accounts ( Epitomai) of (parts of ) the philosophical sub-disciplines written by members of the school at issue.86 Arguably, one of the motives behind Diogenes Laertius' transcription of Epicurus'  Letters  is that no better or more  authoritative   epitomai  of  Epicurean  doctrine  were  available.  His account of Stoic philosophy seems to a large extent to be dependent on introductory tracts written by teachers of Stoic philosophy. Chrysippus himself already wrote  Eisago-gai,87 though these were not always brief. 
viii Successions
Another originally Hellenistic genre is the literature on the  Successions (of the Philosophers) ( Diadochai).88 Of these too there are no pure instances or large  portions  extant,  though  Philodemus'  books  on  respectively  the Academics  and  the  Stoics  (which  also  contain  little  biographies)  come quite  close.89 Aristotle  already  speaks  of  a  'succession'  in  the  field  of 85 E.g.  De Or. iii.61, iii.67,  Leg. i.55,  Acad.  ii.118, ii.129,  Fin. iii.44, v.16,  Tusc. i.18, i.79, v.11,  ND
i.2, i.5. Cf. also Cassius' letter to Cicero,  Ad Fam. xv.19.3, which shows that these disagreements were well known to members of the Roman intelligentsia. 
86 References to Stoic logical  Eisago-gai  e.g. S.E.  M  viii.428, Gal.  Inst.  Log. xix.5k; on Epicurean compendia see Angeli 1986, on introductory medical textbooks Kollesch 1966 and 1973, 13-46, on handbooks in general Fuhrmann 1960, on   Epitomai  in general Mansfeld and Runia 1997, 183-5; also cf. Mutschmann 1911a, 96, Schäfer 1959. 
87 E.g.  ap.  Athen.  464d,  Eisago-ge- to  the  Treatment  of  Good  and  Evil;  Epitome- of  Interrogation  and Inquiry, one book  and  Epitome-of Reply, one book,  apud  D.L. vii.191. 
88 The first to write a work with this title was Sotion; texts in Wehrli 1978. See further von Kienle 1961, Glucker 1978, 161, 343-4, Giannattasio Andria 1989, Mansfeld 1992a, 20-43. Brent 1993
and 1995, 475-501 is inadequate. 
89 Texts: Dorandi 1991b, 1994b. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
24
s o u r c e s
rhetoric ( Soph. El. 34.183b17-33),90 by which he means that a pupil takes over from the master, though not necessarily in an institutional sense. The motivation  for  writing  history  of  philosophy  in  this  manner  mainly derives  from  the  institutional  practice  of  the  established  philosophical schools, starting with the Academy. In these schools the head of the association  had  a  successor  ( diadochos)  who  was  appointed  or  chosen. 
Retrospectively,  such  lines  of  succession  were  also  constructed  for  the Preplatonic period, and these successions of Preplatonics were in various ways linked with the later philosophical schools.91 This entails that a 'succession' could also be postulated in cases where a real or purported doctrinal  a√nity  was  found,  or  believed  to  exist.  The  notion  of  succession  is important for the idea of a school, and may therefore play a decisive part in the literature  On Sects. We may observe that the ancients more often than not emphasized continuity, while modern historians are accustomed to think in terms of di◊erent historical periods. 
In the field of philosophy there are two alternative models - either two (e.g. at D.L. i.13) or three successions comprising the whole of Greek philosophy  from  Thales  and  Pythagoras  to  the  Hellenistic  period  (subsequently, later philosophies could be conveniently appended).92 We have the Ionian line, starting with Thales and including the 'Socratics', namely the  so-called  minor  Socratics  and  the  Academy,  Peripatos,  Cynics  and Stoa.  The  Italian  line,  starting  with  Pythagoras,  includes  the  Early Pyrrhonists and Epicureans. We may find a third line too, called Eleatic, which  begins  with  Xenophanes  and  also  includes  the  Pyrrhonists  and Epicureans. Some philosophers were considered to be outside these lines (οι/ σπορα!δην).93 The standard division according to lines of succession consequently  emphasizes  a  contrast  between  the  principal  dogmatist Hellenistic  schools,  namely  Epicureans  and  Stoa,  and  somewhat  to our surprise rather strongly opposes Early Pyrrhonism to Academic scepticism, and the Cyrenaics to the Epicureans. 
The work of Diogenes Laertius, of which I have already suggested that it belongs in large part to the literature  On Sects, is from beginning to end structured according to lines of succession.94 The learned doctor Soranus is said to have written a book entitled  Successions of the Physicians.95 There are even occasional references to successions in 90 Cf. also  Met. Α.1.993b14-19, on other genres. 
91 For the similar practice of the Hellenistic medical schools and/or medical historiography see e.g. [Gal.]  Int. xiv.683-4k. 
92 Von Kienle 1961. 
93 E.g. D.L. viii.91-ix.20. 
94 The Ionian succession and sects are treated in books ii-vii, the Italian(-cum-Eleatic) in books viii-x. 
95 Scholion to Oribasius,  CMG  vi.3.132. This may be identical with the work cited above, n. 11. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
b i o g r a p h y
25
Aëtius (e.g. i.3.1-9) which Diels either ignored or declared to be later accretions. 
These works contain information on and anecdotes concerned with the lives of the philosophers; therefore they are often believed to be less reliable than doxographies. There is some truth in this. But the  Diadochai  of Alexander  Polyhistor  (to  mention  only  one  instance)  contained  a  substantial  summary  concerned  with  doctrines  attributed  to  the  (Early) Pythagoreans.96 That this account has no historical basis is less important than the fact that works of this kind may contain more than biographic facts, or pseudo-facts, and gossip. The information on the history of the schools of Plato and Zeno preserved by Philodemus, which occasionally includes brief accounts of major doctrines, is certainly quite invaluable. 
So is much of what is found in Diogenes Laertius. 
ix Biography
References to the rather fluid genre of biography have already been made in the previous sections. The  bios ('life') of a philosopher may be part of a
'succession', or series of 'lives' (e.g. Diogenes Laërtius'  On Cleanthes  as part of the Stoic  diadoche-), but may also exist individually, or form the introduction to the collected works of an author. The earliest examples in the field  of  philosophy  seem  to  be  lost  writings  about  Plato  by  his  early pupils; the one by Hermodorus is cited not only for biographic details but also for specific doctrines.97 The reason why I have said that biography is fluid  is  that  its  ingredients  may  vary.  Diogenes  Laertius,  for  instance, includes the doctrines of the Stoa in the  bios  of its founder, but adds the common  doctrines  of  the  Cynics  after  the  sequence  of  their  individual biographies.98 In other 'lives', the doctrinal element may be poor, or even absent.99
An interesting feature of 'lives' (especially in the context of a succession) is that various alternative versions of a person's a√liations, school-ing  and  personal  fortunes  may  be  given.  Here  not  merely  'antiquarian'
interest but the desire not to lose information that may be relevant is at work.  The  alternatives  may  in  some  cases  be  capable  of  an  explanation (Zeno of Citium as a Cynic or as a decent person, perhaps even a sort of 96 Quoted D.L. viii.24-35. 
97 Speusippus,  Eulogy of Plato, D.L. v.5; Hermodorus,  On Plato, Phld.  Acad. Hist., col. 6.34, D.L. 
ii.106, iii.6, Simp.  Phys. 247.33-48.18, 256.32-57.4. 
98 D.L. vii.38, vi.103. 
99 On Antigonus of Carystus, not interested in doctrines, see Dorandi 1995a who corrects von Wilamowitz-Moellendor◊, 1881. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
26
s o u r c e s
Platonist, depending on the preferences of the reporter or constructor of a  succession).100 The  modern  historian  should  tread  carefully  and  not attempt, at least not always, to cut knots or appeal to development. The fact that the Church eventually chose to accept four not always mutually compatible  ' lives' of Jesus101 from the number that were available shows the same tendency at work. By preserving such alternatives, or varieties, as are not patently wrong you may at least be certain of preserving what is useful. In Diogenes Laertius (but also in others, e.g. pseudo-Soranus' 'life'
of Hippocrates)102 this conservative fondness for alternatives entails the presence of explicit references to a plurality of traditions, or more or less recherché sources for the cited bits of information. 
x Fragments
Where  originals  are  lost,  and  the  extant  derivative  literature  involves compression  and  may  entail  a  certain  amount  of  distortion,  priority should clearly be given to surviving verbatim quotations, although we can almost  never  be  certain  that  their  wording  is  exact.  Secondary  sources may quote from the work of a philosopher they are discussing, or paraphrase (a part of ) it. As a rule, such quotations ( marturia,  laudationes) are given  to  underpin  an  argument  that  is  being  propounded.  In  order  to evaluate quotations with regard to the information provided on the philosopher at issue, one should not only look at the so-called (immediate) context, but take the specific purpose of the quoting author into account and keep in mind that ancient authors may well be concerned with making a point rather than providing information. It is of course well known that words may be quoted without regard to their original environment; even quotations in verse may be adapted to a new context. Furthermore, from the point of view of an ancient author involved in explaining or paraphrasing a person's doctrine it may be useful to ascribe to him views you want to refute but which he never may have held, at least not in this form, or views which you may regard as a welcome consequence of what he said though actually he never expressed them. 
The concept of a fragment is ill defined, and such definitions as may be believed to exist are not consistently heeded. Usener in his edition of the remains  of  Epicurus,  followed  by  his  pupil  Diels  in  his  editions  of  the 100 Mansfeld 1986, 317-28. 
101 For the gospels in the context of the traditions of Greek biography see Cancik 1984b, 94-6, Berger 1984, 1231-45, Aune 1987, 46-76. 
102 Text:  CMG  iv 175-8, transl. in Rubin Pinault 1992, 7-8. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
f r a g m e n t s
27
remains of the philosophers who wrote in verse and of the fragments of the  Presocratics,  introduced  a  useful  distinction  between  (1)  verbatim quotations and (2) what (regardless of the genre involved) they called 'testimonia', or secondary evidence.103 Today such testimonia (again regardless of the genre involved) are often treated as reliable 'fragments' in those cases  where  a  name  or  name-label  is  added  in  the  source.  To  a  certain extent, this may be justifiable as a salutary reaction to the vagaries of the Quellenforschung  which tended to trace back sections in derivative sources to primary sources on speculative grounds. Yet a preliminary observation must be made. The attribution of particular tenets or doctrines to, say, Cleanthes or Posidonius is from a historical point of view less suspect than one to e.g. Zeno, because Zeno, as founder of the school, may serve as a nom de plume  for the Stoics in general. A second observation is that collections of testimonia-with-labels of Hellenistic philosophers may provide a distorted impression because views of individuals are noted especially in those  cases  where  they  are  di◊erent,  or  to  some  extent  di◊erent,  from those  of  the  founder,  or  the  majority  of  the  members,  of  a  particular school.  Here  the  distinction  of  genres  becomes  particularly  important. 
Testimonia about individual Stoics derived from the  Placita  literature of the Aëtius type as a rule emphasize disagreement, whereas strings of  lau-
 dationes  concerned with Stoics in Diogenes Laertius and Arius Didymus, though scrupulously listing di◊erences, may place the emphasis on fundamental agreement in doctrine and so suggest that disagreement is for the most part merely verbal. 
A further note of warning should be sounded. Modern collections of
'fragments' of individual philosophers, or of philosophers belonging to a particular school or brought together under a specific denomination, are to  be  used  with  caution.  This  also  holds  for  the  collected  fragments  of physicians. Usener's collection of Epicurean fragments and testimonia is an in many ways unsurpassed example of the method. But it is not only now out of date and incomplete; a more serious defect is its tendency to lump the testimonia together in a systematic way without regard for their provenance and eventual relations to one another. Von Arnim's collection of the fragments of the Early Stoics, also out of date, is much less good than the splendid works of Usener and Diels.104 Though von Arnim indicates what he considers to be the relative importance of testimonia and fragments  by  means  of  a  confusing  variety  of  type-faces,  his  -  far  too 103 Usener 1887, Diels 1901, 1903. 
104 Von Arnim 1903-5. For Usener and Diels see previous note. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
28
s o u r c e s
systematic - arrangement of chunks of text fails to give preference to verbatim quotations. He often ascribes common Stoic views to Chrysippus, thereby demoting him to a  nom de plume. In actual practice, users may tend to consider any item to be found in Usener or von Arnim105 a fragment to be put on a par with any of the others. For the purposes of research as contrasted with a first orientation or with teaching, existing and future collections of fragments should be used as inventories or 'databases' which direct  us  to  the  sources  which  should  really  be  consulted,  and  which should both be studied in themselves and carefully compared with each other.106
A word may be added on a technique of composition often found in derivative sources, namely the cento method. This is not a modern invention but a method recognized and discussed in antiquity.107 In prose works the cento ( kentron, 'patchwork') is a collection of quotations and/or paraphrases, sometimes pertaining to a single author and/or source, more often to a plurality of authors and/or sources, and serving a definite end. This aim may be made explicit by means of exegesis, or the cento itself may be subservient to larger interpretative purposes. In a sense, a string of  laudationes  collected to prove that Epicurus is immoral (D.L. x.3-9) is a cento. The first book of Hippolytus'  Refuta-
 tion of All Heresies  is a cento compiled from various sources, of both the doxographic and the  On Sects  type, with an emphasis on succession comparable to that of Diogenes Laertius. Diogenes' own book is to some degree a cento - mainly of other centos, as it would appear. Galen, in the  PHP, constructs centos of quotations from Chrysippus inter-spersed with much exegesis in order to prove him one-sided, or wrong. 
Clement of Alexandria in his  Patchworks ( Stro-mateis) provides numerous centos adducing, and explaining, the views of poets and prose-writers, philosophers and others, on a great number of issues. Little or no work has been done on the comparison of centos dealing with the same issues to be found in various extant secondary sources. Unfortunately, the pro-sopographic and systematic arrangement of existing collections of fragments successfully obliterates those centos which cite a wide range of views. 
105 Or  in  the  excellent  collections  of  Deichgräber  1930,  Long  and  Sedley  1987,  and  von  Staden 1989. On fragments see the papers collected in Most 1996 and Burkert 1998. 
106 The naive view is expressed by Kristeller 1993, 2, who says that the 'fragments and summaries preserved by later authors' have been 'carefully assembled by modern scholars whose work is like that of the archeologists who reconstruct the cities and monuments of Antiquity out of ruins either preserved or unearthed'. 
107 Le Boulluec 1982, Mansfeld 1992a, 152-65. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t r a d i t i o n   a n d   r e c e p t i o n
29
xi Tradition and reception
In a number of ways, the concepts of 'tradition' or 'history of tradition'
are more convenient from a methodological point of view than 'source'
and 'source-criticism'. When one speaks of a tradition, one is of course also  thinking  of  the  hypothetical  primary  sources  of  extant  derivative sources, but need not be too specific about these sources. It is for example clear that Cicero works within a tradition, or a plurality of traditions, and that only in some cases may we speak of sources used, or consulted. History of tradition can be usefully applied in the study of genres; one may speak  of  traditions  concerned  with  successions  or  schools,  of  a  doxographic tradition, and so on. 
The  Neoplatonist  idea  that  the  lower  forms  of  reality  receive  what transcends them on their own level, formulated in the Middle Ages as
'whatever  is  received  is  received  according  to  the  character  of  the receiver' ( Quidquid recipitur ad modum recipientis recipitur),  may  be  converted  into  a  formula  defining  reception.  Inevitably,  traditions  are involved with reception, because topics of interest may have been formulated  in  a  di◊erent  way  or  because  a  later  author,  especially  if  he belongs to a di◊erent school, reads through coloured glasses and so provides  coloured  information.  Reception  is  already  an  issue  in  Aristotle himself, because he tends to interpret his predecessors in terms of his own system. There is a Stoic reception of Heraclitus and an Epicurean of Atomism,  as  well  as  a  so-called  Middle  Stoic108 reception  of  Early Stoicism  and  a  Neopyrrhonist109 reception  of  Early  Pyrrhonism  and Academic scepticism. The pythagoreanizing Platonist Numenius finds fault with the reception of Plato in the sceptical Academy and even to some extent in the early Academy. Likewise, there is a Galenic reception of  the  treatises  in  the   Corpus  Hippocraticum  and  of  Plato's  dialogues which we can check, and of the Hellenistic physicians which we cannot check in the same way because their works are lost. Instances could be provided  ad lib. What is handed on, looked for or rediscovered changes as it changes hands. Ancient philosophy in relation to its past, or pasts, is to a large extent a history of receptions and interpretations. Our sources for Hellenistic philosophy must be evaluated from this point of view as well. 
Just as history of reception is more useful than history of tradition, so history of tradition is more useful than  Quellenforschung. But a history of 108 Seneca, Epictetus, Marcus Aurelius. 
109 Aenesidemus, Agrippa, Sextus Empiricus. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
30
s o u r c e s
reception which keeps aloof from history of tradition and  Quellenforschung will be blind. Conversely,  Quellenforschung  is feasible only in the context of the history of tradition, just as history of tradition is in that of the history of reception. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
2
Chronology
t i z i a n o   d o r a n d i
i Introduction
During  the  years  immediately  following  the  deaths  of  Plato  (348/7  bc) and  Aristotle  (322/1  bc)  Athenian  philosophical  life  was  dominated  by four large schools: the Academy, the Peripatos, the Stoa and the Garden ( Ke-pos) of Epicurus. Alongside these were the Pyrrhonian sceptics, named after  their  founder  Pyrrho  of  Elis,  and  certain  representatives  of  the so-called  minor  Socratic  schools  -  in  particular  the  Cyrenaics,  the Dialecticians and the Cynics. 
The  reconstruction  of  the  chronology  of  the  members  of  all  these schools up to about 10 0 bc presents a series of di√culties, which often make  dating  proposals  necessarily  vague  or  at  least  subject  to  possible changes as studies develop. In the following pages I do not intend simply to reproduce the lists of scholarchs who succeeded each other as heads of individual  schools,  but  rather  to  give  a  concise  bird's-eye  sketch  of  the principal events in the lives of the more important personalities in correlation with the more secure dates in the chronology.1
ii The Academy
On Plato's death (348/7) he was succeeded as head of the Academy by his nephew Speusippus, who held the post until 339/8 (Lysimachides' archonship), when Xenocrates of Chalcedon was chosen by the younger members of  the  Academy  as  his  successor.  The  third  scholarch  was  Polemo  of Athens, chosen in 314/3, the year of Xenocrates' death. Young, rich and dissolute, Polemo was converted to philosophy after listening to a lecture by  Xenocrates  on  temperance  ( so-phrosune-).  His  chronology  should  be 1 For the Stoa, Academy and Garden I have mostly used (but also revised) the evidence in Dorandi 1991c. J. D. Morgan has enabled me ( per litteras) to correct some imprecisions. I am very grateful for his help. Some of the dates are still provisional and will perhaps have to be changed once the complete results of Morgan's research have been published. 
[31]
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
32
c h r o n o l o g y
examined  alongside  those  of  Crantor  of  Soli  in  Cilicia  and  of  Crates  of Athens, both important members of the Academy, connected with Polemo by their school ties and by friendship.2 A reliable passage in the  Chronicle  of Eusebius/Hieronymus3 records the year of Polemo's death as 270/69. He was succeeded as head of the school by Crates, on account of Crantor's premature death, probably in 276/5 (Philocrates' archonship).4 Crates' date of death  remains  uncertain  because  of  a  lacuna  in  Diogenes  Laertius'  text (D.L. iv.23). If one accepts Jacoby's restored version, Crates would have died between 268 and 264 bc (128th Olympiad).5 Crates' period as scholarch was, in any case, of short duration. 
In the same period appears the figure of Eratosthenes of Cyrene, pupil in Athens of the Stoic philosopher Aristo of Chios, but also of Arcesilaus. 
His chronology is disputed: he went to Alexandria as librarian to Ptolemy III  Euergetes  (246-221  bc)  and  lived  there  at  least  until  the  end  of  the reign of Ptolemy V Epiphanes (205/4-181/0 bc), if the information that he died aged eighty is reliable.6
After  Crates,  probably  between  268  and  264,  Arcesilaus  of  Pitane  in Aeolia took on the scholarchate (headship, or direction, of the school), following its refusal by a certain Socratides, who had been elected by the  nea-
 niskoi  of the Academy. Arcesilaus, after studies with Theophrastus, turned to the Academy of Polemo, Crates and Crantor. Ancient sources name him as  someone  who  inaugurated  a  new  era  in  Academic  thought,  taking  a position close to that of the Pyrrhonists. Arcesilaus' chronology is tied to that of his successor Lacydes of Cyrene.7 From Apollodorus and Diogenes Laertius8 we learn that the beginning of Lacydes' headship of the school fell in 241/0 and that this philosopher held the post for thirty-six years until  206/5;  in  the  last  ten  years,  because  of  serious  illness,  Lacydes e◊ectively had to delegate the running of the school to a council of  presbu-
 teroi.9
We are informed by Apollodorus'  Chronicle 10 about the events in the Academy during the years of Lacydes' direction of the school and immediately  following  his  death.11 Telecles  and  Euander,  who  had  with  other students taken part in the council running the Academy during Lacydes'
illness, kept hold of its control after the latter's death without proceeding 2 Dorandi 1991c, 3-6. 
3 Eus./Hieron.  Chron. : Ol. 127.3 (p. 130.21 Helm). 
4 I believe that the evidence in Phld.  Acad. Hist.  col. q.2-5 refers to him, not to Polemo or Crates. 
5 Jacoby 1902, 344. 
6 Pfei◊er 1968, 152-70. For membership of the Academy, see Krämer 1983, 152-4, 164-8, 169, 172. 
7 I have here modified what I wrote in Dorandi 1991c, 7-10. 
8 Phld.  Acad. Hist. , col. 27.1-7 and D.L. iv.61. 
9 Görler 1994b, 830-1. 
10 Phld.  Acad. Hist. , col. 27.7-28.34. 
11 Dorandi 1991b, 65-8. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   a c a d e m y
33
to  formal  election  of  a  new  scholarch.  On  Telecles'  death  in  167/6
(Nicosthenes' archonship), Euander continued on his own for a few years. 
He was succeeded by Hegesinus, and he in turn by Carneades of Cyrene. 
Besides Telecles, Euander and Hegesinus, Apollodorus cites as students of Lacydes Paseas, Thrasys and Aristippus. As students of Telecles, Euander and Hegesinus there were in addition Agamestor, Eubulus of Erythrae, Eubulus  of  Ephesus  and  Moschion  of  Mallos  who  died  in  185/4
(Eupolemos' archonship). Eubulus of Erythrae died during Alexander's archonship  (174/3)  and  his  Ephesian  namesake  three  months  later.  The Arcadian Agamestor died during Xenocles' archonship (168/7) after the battle  of  Pydna.  A  certain  Apollonius,  student  of  Telecles,  died  during Epainetos'  archonship  (159/8).  Finally,  a  young  Eubulus,  Apollonius'
brother, died during the archonship of Aristophon (143/2), the successor to Theaetetus (144/3). 
On the other hand, information relating to the biography of Carneades of Cyrene, the other major representative of the Academy after Arcesilaus, is scarce. Diogenes Laertius quotes Apollodorus as saying that Carneades was eighty-five when he died in 129/8, so he was born in 214/13.12 There were two significant episodes in his life. (1) He participated, along with the Peripatetic Critolaus of Phaselis and the Stoic Diogenes of Seleucia, in the mission sent in  156/5 to Rome  to defend  the Athenian cause in the a◊air of the city of Oropos. With his ability in dialectic Carneades managed to persuade the Roman Senate to decree the annulment of the 150
talent fine imposed on the Athenians.13 (2) He decided to retire from the headship of the Academy for health reasons in 137/6. The subsequent succession  of  events  up  to  the  death  of  Clitomachus  of  Carthage  and  the headship of Philo of Larissa is fairly intricate.14 Carneades was succeeded by his namesake Carneades, son of Polemarchus: he died in 131/0 when the elder Carneades was still alive, and was succeeded by Crates of Tarsus. 
With the elder Carneades' death in 129/8 Clitomachus, who had opened his own school in the Palladium a little before the succession of Carneades the younger, re-entered the Academy (probably by force) and two years later, on the death of Crates, e◊ectively took over as head. Clitomachus (born  in  Carthage,  187/6)  had  originally  come  to  Athens  at  the  age  of twenty-four, in 163/2, and four years later, in 159/8, started attending the lectures  of  the  elder  Carneades.15 His  reasons  for  founding  his  own 12 D.L. iv.65. 
13 The sources are collected in Mette 1985, T. 7a-k. 
14 Dorandi 1991c, 11-16. 
15 These  dates  are  only  approximate,  because  of  the  problems  connected  with  exclusive   versus inclusive reckoning. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
34
c h r o n o l o g y
school,  nineteen  years  later,  in  140/39  (Hagnotheos'  archonship)  are obscure. He remained head of the Academy until his death in 110/09, during  Polycletus'  archonship.  Clitomachus  was  succeeded  by  Philo  of Larissa. 
Two other protagonists in this period of the history of the Academy were Boethus of Marathon and Melanthius of Rhodes. Boethus of Marathon was a student of Aristo of Ephesus and of Eubulus of Ephesus; he died ten years after the elder Carneades, in 120/19, during the archonship of Eumachos. We do not know his date of birth, but he may have lived for a  long  time,  in  view  of  the  fact  that  Eubulus  died  before  168/7.16 We know that Melanthius was the tutor of Aeschines of Naples and that the latter also attended the lectures of the elder Carneades; it is therefore possible to place the  floruit  of Melanthius around 150 bc.17
Metrodorus  of  Stratonicea  and  Charmadas  are  more  important.  We know that Metrodorus, after being Epicurus' pupil, went to the Academy where he became the pupil of the elder Carneades, and was regarded as the only  true  interpreter  of  what  Carneades  really  thought.18 Charmadas'
chronology is di√cult to determine. If we accept that Charmadas was the anonymous philosopher described by Apollodorus as 'naturally endowed with a good memory' (φυ!σει µνη!µων), we have the following dates:19 he went to Athens at the age of twenty-two in 142/1 (Aristophantos' archonship)  and  studied  with  Carneades  of  Cyrene  for  seven  years.  He  would therefore have been born in 164/3. From Cicero's evidence in  De Oratore ii.360 we can deduce that Charmadas had already died by 91 bc.20
Between the end of the second and the beginning of the first century bc, the Academy went through a period of crisis as an institution, which coincided, paradoxically, with a splendid flowering of thought, associated with the names of Philo of Larissa and Antiochus of Ascalon. 
The chronology of Philo, the last head of the o√cial Academy, is fairly certain.21 He  was  born  in  154/3  (Aristaichmos'  archonship).  In  130/29, during  Nicomachus'  archonship,  he  went  to  Athens  where  during  the period up to 120/19 he was a student of Clitomachus and an unidentified Apollodorus. On Clitomachus' death, in 110/09, Philo became scholarch. 
He remained in Athens until 88, at which point he fled to Rome where he died, probably in 84/3 (Nicetes' archonship). 
16 Cf. Dorandi 1991b, 71-2. 
17 Cf. Dorandi 1991b, 74-5. 
18 D.L. x.9 and Phld.  Acad. Hist.,  col. 24.9-16. Cf. Glucker 1978, 107-8, 113 n. 54 and 303. 
19 Phld.  Acad. Hist.,  cols. 31.33-32.10; I here follow a suggestion of J. Morgan. 
20 Cf. Dorandi 1991b, 75-6. 
21 The  data  which  I  here  provide  are  slightly  di◊erent  from  those  in  Dorandi  1991c,  17-20, because I have in the meantime endorsed some suggestions made by J. Morgan. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   p e r i p a t o s
35
Antiochus was born in Ascalon between 130 and 120; in 69, when he was accompanying L. Lucullus in the military campaign against Mithridates, he was already an old man. In Athens he was a student of Philo of Larissa and of the Stoics Mnesarchus and Dardanus. The crucial point of his career was undoubtedly his 'conversion', which led him to found his own  school  called  the  Old  Academy,  in  opposition  to  the  Academy  of Philo,  who  had  no  successor.  The  centuries-old  history  of  the  school founded by Plato - the Academy in the true sense of the word - ends with Philo; a new phase of Platonism began with Antiochus. The break with Philo occurred at some time we cannot determine during the nineties.22
From  c.  87 to 84 Antiochus seems to have been at Alexandria, where he got to  know  Lucullus;  but  in  79  Cicero  heard  his  lectures  at  Athens  in Ptolemy's  Gymnasium  ( Ptolemaeum).  From  74  to  69  he  accompanied Lucullus in the war against Mithridates and he died in  c.  68.23
The theory24 that Charmadas might have run the Academy for a few years after Philo's flight to Rome is disputable.25
iii The Peripatos
The history of Aristotle's school from the death of its founder to the first century bc is sparsely documented in the ancient sources.26 In 323, on the death  of  Alexander  the  Great,  Aristotle  was  forced  to  leave  Athens  and fled to Stagira, where he died in 322/1. Theophrastus remained at Athens as his successor in charge of the Peripatos for another thirty-six years until he died in 288/7 or 287/6.27
Demetrius of Phalerum, born  c.  350 bc, was an accomplished politician. 
His chronology does not exclude the possibility that he was in direct contact with Aristotle, though the sources only name him as a student of Theophrastus. It is di√cult to determine with any certainty his relationship with the Peripatos. In 322, after the battle of Crannon, Demetrius took part in the Athenian mission to Antipater of Macedon. In 317 he was summoned to govern the city in the name of Cassander with legislative powers. 
Demetrius replaced the democratic system with one based on property qualifications and ruled Athens under the titles of 'curator of the city'
(ε0πιµελητη' τη4 πο!λεω) and  strate-gos. He achieved an important reform 22 I accept the findings of Glucker 1978, 15-21 (modified at Dorandi 1991c, 19 n. 7, 30, 34, 60 and 74). 
23 Cf. Glucker 1978, Barnes 1989c and Görler 1994b, 939-45. 
24 Glucker 1978, 109-11. 
25 Cf. Ferrary 1988, 472 n. 122. 
26 For a summary, cf. Sollenberger 1992, 3842-4. 
27 For the life and chronology of Theophrastus see Regenbogen 1940, 1355-61. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
36
c h r o n o l o g y
of the law on Platonic-Peripatetic principles. In 309/8 he was archon28 and remained in power until 307, when he fled into exile upon the capture of Athens by Cassander's foe Demetrius Poliorcetes. Accordingly he went first to Thebes, and then (after Cassander's death in 297) to Egypt, where he sought asylum from Ptolemy I Soter, and remained until his death  c.  282 bc. 
Strato, son of Arcesilaus or Arcesius, born at Lampsacus between 340
and  330,  was  elected  to  succeed  Theophrastus  as  scholarch  of  the Peripatos. It is not impossible that he might have known Epicurus during his period of teaching in Lampsacus between 310 and 306. Strato went to Athens  (date  unknown)  where  he  attended  Aristotle's  school.  After  the master's death he left the Peripatos for a time and went to Egypt to the court  of Ptolemy I Soter, who entrusted him with the education of his son, Ptolemy II Philadelphos. He returned to Athens on Theophrastus'
death  (288/7  or  287/6)  and  was  chosen  as  successor  in  preference  to Neleus, probably because of his seniority. He remained as scholarch for another eighteen years, until 270/69 or 269/8. 
With Praxiphanes, native of Mytilene but for a long time inhabitant of Rhodes, we move on to the second generation of Peripatetics who were students of Theophrastus only. Praxiphanes' birth has been placed within the last quarter of the fourth century bc. The possibility that he might be the person similarly named in a contemporary Greek inscription from the island of Delos must be dismissed.29 The chronology of Hieronymus of Rhodes, possibly introduced to philosophy by the same Praxiphanes on his native island, can be placed in the first twenty-five years of the third century  bc.  Other  students  of  Theophrastus  were  Duris  of  Samos  (who lived between  c.  350-330 and some date after 281) and his brother Lynceus. 
The third scholarch of the Peripatos was Lyco. Born in the Troad, he succeeded Strato in 270/69 or 269/8 and remained in the post for forty-four years, until 226/5 or 225/4. Since we know that he died aged seventy-four  (D.L.  v.68),  his  date  of  birth  must  be  30 0/299  or  299/8.  In Diomedon's archonship (248/7 or 245/4) this philosopher was honoured at Athens for contributing to an  epidosis, and, at an uncertain date, also by the Delphic Amphictiony.30
We  know  very  little  of  Aristo  of  Ceos,  probably  born  around  250. 
Doubts  remain  about  whether  he  was  elected  scholarch.  But  we  have much  more,  and  more  detailed  information  about  Prytanis,  son  of 28 Sollenberger 1992, 3825 n. 160. Cf. Tracy 1994, 151-61. 
29  IG
4
xi
.613.10. Cf., most recently, Salvadori Baldascino 1990. 
30 Cf.,  respectively,  IG
2
ii
791d29 ⫽  SIG 3 491  (Lyco  fr.  13  Wehrli)  and   SIG 3 461  (Lyco  fr.  14
Wehrli), on which see Habicht 1989, 9 (⫽ 1994, 166) and Sollenberger 1992, 3823, n. 152. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   s t o a
37
Astykleides and a native of the city of Carystus in Euboea.31 His chronology  revolves  around  October  225  bc,  when  he  was  honoured  by  the Athenians on the occasion of his participation in a mission to Antigonus Doson.32 In 223 he was employed by Doson to draft a constitution for Megalopolis (Plb. v.93.8). Since his students included the poet Euphorion of Chalcis, the start of his teaching career can be put between 260 and 255. 
The information in the so-called  Vita Hesychii  of Aristotle, which puts him among the scholarchs of the Peripatos, is certainly false.33 The same holds true for Phormion. His chronology has been fixed around 195 on the basis of  information  in  Cicero  ( De  orat.  ii.18.75)  that  he  made  a  speech  at Ephesus 'on the functions of a commander-in-chief and military matters in general' before the exiled Hannibal. 
I  shall  omit  from  consideration  other  people  who  had  a  real  or  supposed  relationship  with  the  Peripatos  -  Satyrus  of  Callatis  Pontica, Hermippus of Smyrna, Sotion of Alexandria, Heraclides Lembos, Antisthenes of Rhodes, Agatharchides of Cnidus and Athenodorus - since this would involve dealing with learned men rather than with philosophers in the strict sense. 
In  the  period  from  the  death  of  Lyco  (226/5  or  225/4)  to  Critolaus  of Phaselis (already scholarch in 156/5), there is a gap in the ancient sources regarding the succession of scholarchs of the Peripatos. Even if it is granted that one of these was Aristo of Ceos, there can be no reliability attached to other  names  detailed  in  the   Vita  Hesychii,  which  include  Lyciscus, Praxiphanes and Hieronymus, as well as Prytanis and Phormion.34 We lack solid information about Critolaus' birth and death. It is only certain that he took part in 155 in the famous Athenian delegation to Rome together with Carneades and Diogenes of Seleucia. This date allows us to establish that Critolaus  must  already  have  been  scholarch  at  that  time.  If  one  believes pseudo-Lucian ([Luc.]  Macr.  20), according to whom Critolaus lived to be eighty-two, his date of birth ought to be put before 20 0 bc. We know virtually  nothing  about  the  chronology  of  Critolaus'  students:  Diodorus  of Tyre, his successor as scholarch, Calliphon and Aristo the Younger. 
iv The Stoa
Reconstruction  of  the  chronologies  of  Zeno  of  Citium  and  Cleanthes of Assos,  respectively  the  founder  of  the  Stoic  school  and  his  first 31 Kassel 1991. 
32 Cf. Moretti 1967, nr. 28. 
33 [Hesych.]  Vita Arist.  9 (p. 82 Düring ⫽ p. 26 Gigon). 
34 Brink 1940, cols. 908-14. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
38
c h r o n o l o g y
successor,35 has to rely above all on dates drawn from the  Stoicorum Historia of  Philodemus,36 considered  together  with  the  first  sections  of  another work  by  Philodemus,  De  Stoicis,37 and  with  information  taken  from pseudo-Lucian, Valerius Maximus, Censorinus and Diogenes Laertius.38
From Philodemus in particular it seems that Zeno died in Athens during the archonship of Arrheneides and that his successor Cleanthes, born during Aristophanes' archonship (331/0), was head of the Stoa for thirty-two  years,  dying  during  Jason's  archonship.  Pseudo-Lucian,  Valerius Maximus  and  Censorinus  put  Cleanthes'  age  at  ninety-nine,  while Diogenes Laertius claims he lived as long as Zeno. On the basis of accurate determination of the years in o√ce of the archons Aristophanes (331/0), Arrheneides (262/1) and Jason (230/29), it is possible to work out from Philodemus'  evidence  that  Cleanthes  was  born  in  331/0,  became  scholarch of the Stoa in 262/1 on the death of Zeno, and died in 230/29. This would mean  that  Cleanthes  lived to  be  101. If we add to this inference Diogenes  Laertius'  statement  that  Zeno  and  Cleanthes  lived  to  be  the same  age,  and  the  information  contained  in  an  incompletely  preserved passage of Philodemus'  De Stoicis,39 according to which some people also made Zeno live to be 101,40 we may conclude that in ancient times parallel chronologies were circulated for Zeno and for Cleanthes. But they cannot  be  reconciled  with  each  other.  In  particular,  we  should  keep  in mind  the  report,  which  deserves  credence,  that  according  to  Persaeus Zeno lived to the age of seventy-two (D.L. vii.28). The following conclusions can therefore be reached: Zeno was born in 334/3 (according to Persaeus)  or  at  a  date  we  cannot  determine  (if  we  follow  the  evidence  of Apollodorus in Philodemus); Cleanthes was born in 331/0 (Aristophanes'
archonship).  On  Zeno's  death  in  262/1  (Arrheneides'  archonship), Cleanthes became scholarch and continued in the post until his death in 230/29 (Jason's archonship).41
According to ancient sources Zeno, during an enforced stay in Athens brought about by a shipwreck, read Xenophon's  Reminiscences of Socrates and  became  a  pupil  of  the  Cynic  Crates  and  of  Stilpo.42 In  c.  30 0  he opened his own school in the  Stoa Poikile- ('portico with frescos'). What little we know of the life of Cleanthes of Assos has an anecdotal flavour: he 35 Dorandi 1991c, 23-8. 
36 Phld.  Stoic. Hist. , cols. 28-9. For the text, cf. Dorandi 1991c, 23-5. 
37 Phld.  De Stoic. , cols. 1-8. 
38 [Luc.]  Macr.  19; Val. Max. viii.7 exc. 11; Cens. 15.3 and D.L. vii.176. 
39 Phld.  De Stoic. , col. 5.9, via Apollodorus of Athens. 
40 Cf. Dorandi 1982b, 111 and n. 89. 
41 The chronology of Zeno remains controversial; cf. Lefèvre 1995 and Knoepfler 1995, 159. 
42 D.L. vii.1-2. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   s t o a
39
was a fighter in his youth; because he was very poor he had to work nights in  order  to  attend  Zeno's  lectures;  and  he  became  an  enthusiastic  and loyal student. 
Among those of Zeno's pupils who were highly regarded but did not become scholarchs were Persaeus of Citium, Aristo of Chios, Herillus of Carthage, Dionysius of Heraclea Pontica, called  Metathemenos, and finally Sphaerus of Borysthenes. 
Zeno's favourite student was Persaeus. An unfavourable source claims that he was born a household slave and was taken on and introduced to philosophy  by  Zeno.43 From  the  evidence  of  Diogenes  Laertius  vii.6, who  puts  his   floruit  at  260-256,  it  has  been  deduced  that  Persaeus  was born in 307/6.44 Invited by Antigonus Gonatas of Macedon to go to his court at Pella, Zeno refused for reasons of age and in his place sent his students Persaeus and Philonides of Thebes. Persaeus arrived in Pella probably around 274.45 After Antigonus recaptured Corinth  c.  244, Persaeus was given control of the city in the capacity of  archo-n. Persaeus died in 243, courageously defending the fortress of Corinth against the attack of his old student Aratus of Sicyon. Another unfavourable source claims he actually managed to escape and rejoin Antigonus.46
The ancient sources, in particular Diogenes Laertius (vii.160-7), classify  the  three  Stoic  philosophers  Aristo,  Dionysius  of  Heraclea  and Herillus,  as  unorthodox  or  dissidents.  No  chronological  data  survive concerning Aristo's life. We know only that he was a pupil of Zeno and of the academic Polemo. He was friendly with Persaeus and Sphaerus and opposed  to  Arcesilaus.  The  enmity  implicit  in  his  confrontations  with Chrysippus has contributed to a distorted picture of his views.47 We also have  little  biographical  information  about  Herillus.  Originally  from Carthage,  he  studied  at  Athens  under  Zeno  and  became  famous  for founding a sect under his name, the  Herilleioi.48 The figure of Dionysius, called   Metathemenos,  is  more  complex.  After  having  been  a  pupil  of Heraclides Ponticus at Heraclea, he studied at Athens with Alexinus and Menedemus  and,  later,  with  Zeno.  According  to  information  in Athenaeus (vii.281e), he died at a great age; Diogenes Laertius states that he died of starvation at eighty (D.L. vii.167). Bearing in mind his contact with Heraclides, we can assume that he was born  c.  330-325 and died  c. 
250 bc.  He  caused  a  sensation  by  leaving  the  Stoa  in  favour  of  the Cyrenaic  or  Epicurean  school,  on  account  of  serious  illness.  Another 43 Phld.  Stoic. Hist. , col. 12. 
44 Jacoby 1902, 368-9. 
45 I agree with Grilli 1963, 289-91 (⫽1992, 471-2). 
46 Deichgräber 1937, cols. 926-7. 
47 Ioppolo 1980a, 19-38. 
48 Ioppolo 1985b. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
40
c h r o n o l o g y
student of Zeno of Citium was supposedly a Zeno of Sidon, but his existence has recently been put in doubt.49
A pupil first of Zeno of Citium and then, after his death, of Cleanthes was Sphaerus of Borysthenes. Sphaerus' chronology, connected with that of  Cleomenes  III  of  Sparta  ( c.  260-219 bc),  is  controversial.50 In  235, Cleomenes became king of Sparta and was supported in his revolutionary programme  of  reform  by  Sphaerus.  The  project  lasted  until  222,  when after the defeat at Sellasia Cleomenes was forced to flee to Egypt, to the court of his patron Ptolemy III Euergetes. After Euergetes' death in 222/1, he was kept under house arrest by Ptolemy IV Philopator, and after a desperate escape he committed suicide in 220/19. Given that Cleomenes was born  c.  260, his teacher Sphaerus must have been born around 285, which is consistent with the information that he was also Zeno's student. There is a problem concerning his trip to Egypt to see a Ptolemy who could be identified as Philopator.51 It is likely that Sphaerus went with his patron Cleomenes during his exile in 222. Therefore his possible dates are as follows: born around 285; went to Athens  c.  265, where he was able to attend the  lectures  of  Zeno  (died  262/1)  for  a  short  time;  joined  Cleomenes  in Sparta in  c.  240; followed the Spartan king into Egyptian exile in 222. 
Cleanthes'  successor  and  the  third  scholarch  of  the  Stoa  was Chrysippus of Soli in Cilicia - famous in ancient times for being the 'second founder' of Stoicism. His chronology is based on Apollodorus' calculations as recorded in Diogenes Laertius, which place his death at the age of seventy-three during the 143rd Olympiad (208-204).52 The data found in pseudo-Lucian (that he died aged eighty-one) and in Valerius Maximus (that Chrysippus wrote a series of  Logical Investigations  at the age of eighty) are less credible.53 His date of birth has been placed between 281 and 277. 
This takes away any basis for the claim that Chrysippus also studied with Zeno, though he may well have been a student of Cleanthes.54 He went to Athens probably around 260 and would also have been able to attend the courses  of  Arcesilaus  and  his  successor  Lacydes.  Some  chronological detail exists concerning Aristocreon, Chrysippus' nephew. Between 229
and 190, Aristocreon was in Athens where he was honoured with the  prox-
 enia  and where we still find him in 184/3 (Charicles' archonship).55 After 49 Gigante 1983b, 168-70. 
50 I summarize the conclusions of Hobein 1929, cols. 1683-7. 
51 Cf. D.L. vii.17. Festa 1935, ii.178 note  d, thinks there is an error in Diogenes Laertius and that Sphaerus was invited to Egypt by Ptolemy II Philadelphos. 
52 D.L. vii.184. 
53 [Luc.]  Macr.  20; Val. Max. viii.7 ext. 10. 
54 D.L. vii.179; the first derives from Alexander Polyhistor, the second from Diocles. 
55 Cf.  IG  2
2
ii
786 ⫽  SIG 3 475 and  IG  ii 785 ⫽  SIG 3 474, on which see Habicht 1989, 13-14 (⫽ 1994, 170). 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   s t o a
41
Chrysippus,  the  direction  of  the  school  of  the  Stoa  passed  to  Zeno  of Tarsus, of whose life we know nothing.56
The chronology of Diogenes of Seleucia, who was Zeno of Tarsus' successor as scholarch, is based on little and rather uncertain information.57
The only authenticated date in his life is 155, the year in which he took part,  with  Carneades  and  Critolaus,  in  the  aforementioned  mission  to Rome. From Cicero's  De senectute,  23 it is possible to deduce that Diogenes  had  already  died  by  150.  Since  pseudo-Lucian  ([Luc.]   Macr.  20) claims that he lived to be eighty, his date of birth has consequently been put  around  240  bc.  But  this  chronology  clashes  with  the  dates  for Mnesarchus  and  Dardanus  and  with  the  crucial  events  in  the  life  of Antiochus of Ascalon. The date of Diogenes' death can reasonably be put forward at least a decade, to around 140. The birthdates of Mnesarchus and Dardanus can therefore be placed in 160 or a little later, so that, at the time  of  Antiochus'  'conversion',  they  would  be  over  sixty  but  not  over eighty, as would be the case if Diogenes' death was put  c.  150. This superior hypothesis also accords with Diogenes' participation in the mission of 155; Diogenes, born around 230, would have arrived in Rome aged just over seventy.58
As Ferrary has inferred,59 and as I have demonstrated on the basis of a new  reading  of  a  passage  in  Philodemus'   Stoicorum  Historia,60 after Panaetius' death Mnesarchus and Dardanus were not joint scholarchs. On the  death  of  Diogenes  of  Seleucia  there  was  not  so  much  a  progressive crumbling  of  the  Stoic  school's  original  unity  as  the  co-existence  in Athens  of  several  parallel  courses  of  lectures.  It  is  probable  that,  after Diogenes, the o√cial post of scholarch passed to Antipater of Tarsus; but at  the  same  time  Mnesarchus  too  was  teaching  philosophy.  Something similar  probably  happened  in  129,  when  Antipater  died:  Panaetius assumed the o√cial headship of the Stoa while Dardanus in his turn gave lectures, possibly on an independent footing.61
Panaetius was born in Rhodes around 185-80 and died in 110/09. Re-examination of two Greek inscriptions62 has allowed a better assessment of the dates of the central years of his life.63  IG  2
ii
1938 confirms
Panaetius' presence in Athens around 150, probably in 149/8 (Lysiades'
archonship), where he was at the school under the headship of Diogenes of Seleucia (died  c.  140). From  ILind  223 we learn that some time before 56 Von Fritz 1972. 
57 Dorandi 1991c, 29-34. 
58 Dorandi 1991c, 31-4. 
59 Ferrary 1988, 457-64. 
60 Phld.  Stoic. Hist. , col. 52. 
61 This is how I would modify the details in Ferrary's reconstruction. 
62  IG  2
ii
1938 and  ILind  223. 
63 Dorandi 1991c, 35-42. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
42
c h r o n o l o g y
(possibly around 155) Panaetius was still at Lindos on Rhodes, having been awarded the post of  hierothute-s  of Poseidon Hippios. The documented presence of Panaetius at Rhodes midway through the second century, and the start of the mission to the East with Scipio in 140,64
would put Panaetius and Scipio's first meeting at about 146, bearing in mind that from 151 to 146 Scipio was fully committed to the campaigns in Spain and Africa.65 This allows the definitive exclusion of the supposed involvement of Panaetius, along with Polybius and Scipio, in the third Punic war (149-146). I would redefine his principal dates thus: at an uncertain date between 185 and 180 Panaetius was born at Rhodes. 
After Crates of Mallos returned from the mission to Rome in 168, Panaetius might have attended his courses at Pergamon. Half way through the century, back in Rhodes, he was elected to be  hierothute-s  of Poseidon Hippios in Lindos. He went on to Athens to complete his studies, and here worked with Diogenes of Seleucia and Antipater of Tarsus (from  c.  155 onwards). In Athens he took on the position of  hier-
 opoios  for the celebrations of the  Ptolemaia  in 149/8. After 146 he met Scipio and joined him in the mission to the East in 140-38. In the following years he moved between Rome and Athens, where he worked with Antipater. In 129, the year in which Scipio and possibly also Antipater died, Panaetius was elected scholarch. He died in 110/09. The theory of Philippson and Pohlenz that he died in 10 0/99 has been proved groundless.66
I can give no more than a brief account, finally, of Posidonius.67 Most of the available dates are untrustworthy. Only the years 86 (Marius' last consulate), when he was sent from Rhodes as an ambassador to Rome (Plu. 
 Mar.  45.7), and 60, when Cicero sent him a first draft in Greek of his writings  about  his  own  consulate  (Cic.  Att.  ii.  1.2),  seem  secure.  Alongside these dates one can also consider the information that Posidonius was the pupil of Panaetius (died 110/09),68 that he may have taken part in a second diplomatic  mission  to  Rome  in  51,69 and  pseudo-Lucian's  information that he lived to be eighty-four.70 Hence, one may calculate that he died between 45 and 43 bc (Cic.  Tusc.  v.107). Nevertheless, the standard chronology  accepted  for  Posidonius  takes  his  dates  to  be  135-51  bc.71
64 The data appear in Cichorius 1908, 204-5. The recent attempt by Mattingly 1986 to bring it back to 143/2 is not convincing. Against, see Ferrary 1988, 399 n. 4. 
65 Astin 1967, 297 and n. 4. 
66 Cf. Garbarino 1973, 387-90 and Ferrary 1988, 395-40 0. 
67 I can refer only to recent literature: La◊ranque 1964, 45-97 and Kidd 1988, 1-58. 
68 Cic.  Div.  i.3 and  O◊.  iii.8. Cf. Kidd 1988, 12-13. 
69 According to the evidence of the  Suda (t. 1 e-k). Cf. Kidd 1988, 3-4. 
70 [Luc.]  Macr.  20. 
71 Kidd has raised an opportune  caveat  1988, 8-9. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   g a r d e n
43
La◊ranque has cautiously proposed an alternative:  c.  142-59/8 or, more probably,  c.  130-40.72
v The Garden
The  chronology  of  Epicurus  (342/1-271/0)73 -  the  founder  of  the  other great Hellenistic school of philosophy, Epicureanism - is founded principally  on  Apollodorus'  synchronisms  as  recorded  in  Diogenes  Laertius x.14-15.  He  was  born  on  the  twentieth  of  the  month  of  Gamelion  (24
January 341)74 in the year of Sosigenes' archonship (342/1). At the age of thirty-two (310/09) he opened a school of philosophy at Mytilene and at Lampsacus and taught there for five years, until 305/4. He then moved to Athens, where he founded the Garden and where he died, aged seventy-two, during Pytharatus' archonship (271/0). According to other sources, among  them  Heraclides  Lembus  in  the   Epitome-  of  Sotion  (D.L.  x.1), Epicurus  was  born  at  Samos  as  the  son  of  Neocles,  who  belonged  to  a group of Athenian colonists who had been sent to the island in 352,75 and was only eighteen (323) when he went to Athens. After the expulsion of the Athenian colonies from Samos at the hands of Perdiccas, the philosopher moved to Colophon (after 322), where he met his father; he directed a school  there  for  a  few  years  and  then  returned  to  Athens  during Anaxicrates'  archonship  (307/6).  The  discrepancy  between  the  two sources regarding Epicurus' year of arrival in Athens - 305/4, according to Apollodorus, 307/6, according to Heraclides - is only slight and can be disregarded. From Epicurus' own testimony we learn that he claimed to have begun his philosophical studies at the age of fourteen (327).76 Around 290
there was the serious episode of the apostasy of Timocrates,77 brother of Metrodorus  and  student  of  Epicurus,  who  abandoned  the  Garden  and launched a long defamatory campaign against his master.78 The chronology of Metrodorus of Lampsacus is closely related to that of Epicurus; he died aged fifty-three, seven years before his friend (278/7), and was therefore born in 331/0.79
Among the members who comprised Epicurus' first circle of friends and disciples  and  who  attended  his  school,  we  have  the  names  of  Pythocles, 72 La◊ranque 1964, 47-8. Cf. the  Tableau chronologique  between 139-40. 
73 Cf. Dorandi 1991c, 45-54. 
74 The debate over the exact date of his birth was definitively resolved by Alpers 1968. 
75 Cf. Philippson 1935. 
76 D.L. x.2. Cf. Steckel 1968, col. 580. 
77 Cf. Sedley 1976a, 127-32, 151-4, esp. 152 n. 27. 
78 For a detailed discussion, cf. Schmid 1962 ⫽ 1984, 151-6 and Steckel 1968, cols. 579-93. The commentary of Laks 1976 is also useful. 
79 Cf. D.L. x.23. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
44
c h r o n o l o g y
Polyaenus, Colotes and Idomeneus, four people whom Epicurus met during his stay in Lampsacus. The information that Pythocles died aged eighteen, in 289, is false. Pythocles was actually born around 324, was seventeen or eighteen in 307/6 when Epicurus came to Lampsacus, and was still alive in 292/1, aged thirty-two.80 Polyaenus died before Epicurus, between 290
and 280.81 We know very little about Colotes: it seems he was born about 320  and  that  after  268  he  wrote  his   On  the  Impossibility  of  Living  on  the Principles of the Other Philosophers, dedicated to King Ptolemy II Philadelphos  (282-46)  and  designed  as  a  critique  of  Arcesilaus,  the  Academy's scholarch  since  c.  268-4.  There  is  better  documentation  concerning Idomeneus. He was born around 325 and was about fifteen when he met Epicurus  at  Lampsacus.  In  the  period  between  306  and  301  he  was involved in political activity in his own city, as a court dignitary, while his commitment to Epicureanism is to be dated after 301.82
Epicurus' first successor as scholarch was his old pupil from Mytilene, Hermarchus.83 On  the  basis  of  Epicurus'  will,84 in  which  he  speaks  of those who alongside himself and Hermarchus 'chose to grow old in philosophy', it has been deduced that the two men were contemporaries. The only certain date for Hermarchus' life is 267/6, the year in which he wrote his  letter  to  an  otherwise  unknown  Theopheides  on  rhetorical  arguments.85 At  a  date  around  250  for  which  we  have  no  precise  evidence, Polystratus became scholarch following the death of Hermarchus.86 We know virtually nothing of his life. The most important question which has  occupied  commentators  is  whether  he  was  an  immediate  pupil ( akroate-s)  of  Epicurus.87 We  may  infer  with  some  caution  that  he  had already died by 219/18 (Menecrates' archonship). 
The chronology of Dionysius of Lamptrai and Basilides of Tyre, respectively  the  Garden's  third  and  fourth  scholarchs,  is  relatively  certain. 
Dionysius of Lamptrai was scholarch from at least  c.  219/18 (Menecrates'
archonship)  until  205/4  (Isocrates'  archonship),  the  year  in  which Basilides of Tyre succeeded him in the position.88 Between Basilides and Apollodorus of Athens, who belonged to a later generation and was the teacher of Zeno of Sidon, there is a gap in time which leads one to suspect 80 Sedley 1976b, 43-8. 
81 Sedley 1976b, 48. Cf. Tepedino Guerra 1991, 25-6 and 141 (comm. on fr. 10). 
82 Angeli 1981. 
83 Cf. Longo Auricchio 1988. 
84 D.L. x.20. Cf. Longo Auricchio 1988, 25-7 and 115-16. 
85 Cf. Phld.  Rhet. ii,  PHerc.  1674, cols. 44.19-23 and  Rhet. iii,  PHerc.  1506, cols. 44.26-33. The letter is dated to the archonship of Menecles. Cf. Dorandi 1990c, t 37-8. 
86 Indelli 1978. 
87 Capasso 1982. 
88 Cf. Phld.  PHerc.  1780, pz. viim* 13.17 and viiir 1-6, on which see Dorandi 1991c, 49-50. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   g a r d e n
45
the  existence  of  at  least  one  other  intermediate  scholarch:  the  name  of Thespis may be suggested. But the chronology and development of the events  of  this  time  still  remain  obscure.89 The  figures  of  Philonides  of Laodicea-on-the-Sea  and  of  Protarchus  of  Bargylia  appear  in  the  same period.  Philonides,  whose  anonymous  life  is  preserved  in   PHerc.  1044, remains famous for his mathematical studies.90 Protarchus'  floruit  is put at  c.  150-120;91 he was not a scholarch of the Garden. 
A prominent figure in the school was Apollodorus of Athens, the so-called  Ke-poturannos ('Garden-Tyrant'). He was probably born at the beginning of the second century and assumed the headship of the school towards the middle of the century, holding the post until approximately 110. The important figure of Demetrius of Laconia, an Epicurean whose huge literary output is well known thanks to the papyri of Herculaneum, also belongs to the second century. Demetrius taught at Miletus but never became scholarch. His chronology is connected with that of Zeno of Sidon who was his somewhat younger contemporary. He lived roughly between 150 and 75.92 On Apollodorus'
death, the headship passed to Zeno of Sidon. This philosopher, born around 150, remained in Athens as scholar during the tyranny of Aristion in 87, where Cicero studied with him in 79/8 (Cic.  Tusc. 
iii.17.38). He died probably a few years later (around 75).93 After Zeno the school at Athens continued until the middle of the century, under Phaedrus and Patro. Phaedrus' chronology has been reconstructed fairly securely by Raubitscheck94 on the basis of inscriptions.95 A member of a distinguished Athenian family, Phaedrus, ephebe in 119/18, was born  c.  138.96 He was in Athens in 93;97 in 88 he fled to Rome, where he taught philosophy and met Cicero, Atticus, and Appius and Lucius Saufeius. He returned to Athens after the restoration of Sulla (86) and here became scholarch at an advanced age on the death of Zeno of Sidon. According to the evidence of Phlegon of Tralles,98 he died in 70/69 leaving Patro as his successor. 
89 Dorandi 1991c, 50-1. 
90 See the edition of Gallo 1980, 21-166. This chronology has been better defined thanks to a more precise dating of  IG  2
ii
1236: cf. Habicht 1989, 18-22 (⫽ 1994, 174-8). 
91 Fraser 1972, i.423-4. 
92 Useful criticism in Angeli and Colaizzo 1979, 50-1. 
93 Angeli and Colaizzo 1979. 
94 Raubitscheck 1991 (⫽1949), 337-44. Cf. also Gigante 1983a, 33-4. Sbordone's contribution 1968, is not convincing. 
95 In particular  IG  2
ii
10 08, 3513, 3897 and 3899. 
96 The information about the ephebe comes from a secure restoration of  IG  2
ii
10 08, line 125. 
97 Cf. Cic.  Leg.  i.53, when L. Gellius was in Athens  after  his praetorship ( ex praetura), which he had held in 94. 
98 Phleg. Trall.  FGrHist.  257 fr. 12 par. 8. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
46
c h r o n o l o g y
vi Pyrrhonists
I  shall  say  something  about  the  two  representatives  of  Pyrrhonism  for whom  we  possess  chronological  details:  Pyrrho  of  Elis  and  Timon  of Phlius. 
The  birthdate  of  Pyrrho  of  Elis,  the  founder  of  scepticism,  can  be placed between 365 and 360 bc. It is di√cult to establish the reliability of the information that he was a student of Bryson, which is based on a dubious passage in Diogenes Laertius.99 From around 334 to 324 he took part, with Anaxarchus, in Alexander the Great's oriental campaign. On returning from Asia, Pyrrho settled in Elis and began teaching. If we believe the account in Diogenes Laertius ix.62, Pyrrho lived to be ninety; he would therefore have died between 275 and 270 bc.100
Timon  of  Phlius,  after  studies  with  Stilpon  of  Megara  around  30 0, became a follower of Pyrrho.101 He lived the life of an itinerant Sophist in Chalcedon, Propontis and in Alexandria in Egypt, but moved to Athens  c. 
275, where it seems he died aged ninety. He had a good relationship with the kings Antigonus Gonatas and Ptolemy II Philadelphos. These dates allow  us  to  put  his  chronology  approximately  between  325  and  230  or 225 bc. 
After Timon, the other major representative of Pyrrhonian scepticism is Aenesidemus (first century bc). Even in ancient times there were questions  raised  as  to  whether  there  was  a  connection  between  the  ancient school and Aenesidemus' revival, and whether the original Pyrrhonist tradition  had  continued,  even  if  its  representatives  achieved  little  prominence, or whether it survived in this period only underground. Diogenes Laertius ix.115-16 reproduces the terms of the debate, between those who denied  any  linear  succession  (Menodotus)  and  those  who  had  reconstructed  an  uninterrupted  chain  of  successors  (Hippobotus  and Sotion),102 running from Timon to Aenesidemus: first immediate pupils of Timon, Dioscurides of Cyprus, Nicholochus of Rhodes, Euphranor of Seleucia  and  Praylus  of  the  Troad;  Euphranor  was  supposedly  teacher of Eubulus  of  Alexandria,  who  was  in  turn  the  teacher  of  Ptolemy  of Cyrene,103 the teacher of Sarpedon and Heraclides; and Heraclides was, finally, the teacher of Aenesidemus. Diogenes Laertius' list contains all the characteristics of a fictitious  diadoche- ('succession') and o◊ers no proof of the existence of an actual Pyrrhonian sect involving Pyrrho, Timon and 199 D.L. ix.61. Cf. Decleva Caizzi 1981a, 132-5. 
100 Decleva Caizzi 1981a, 146-7. 
101 Di Marco 1989, 1-5. 
102 Hippob. fr. 22 in Gigante 1983c; Sotion fr. 33 Wehrli. 
103 Restorer of scepticism, according to Menodotus. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
m i n o r   s o c r a t i c s
47
Aenesidemus.  Further  confirmation  of  this  assessment  can  be  found  in Aenesidemus'  Pyrrhonian Discourses, which indicate a rebirth of Pyrrhonism only in the second half of the first century bc, with Aenesidemus.104
vii Minor Socratics
To conclude, I will give no more than a brief account of the chronology (running approximately from 320 to 250 bc) of the main representatives of the so-called Minor Socratic schools: Dialecticians (or 'Megaric'), Cyrenaics and Cynics. Their chronology is actually almost contemporaneous with that of certain members of the major philosophical schools and their histories often intersect in a series of sometimes controversial relationships. 
The  Dialectical  (or  'Megaric')  school105 was  given  its  name  by Dionysius of Chalcedon, whose  floruit  can be placed at 320; he was more or less the contemporary of Euphantus, born before 348. More important are Diodorus Cronus, active in Athens and Alexandria between 315 and  c. 
284106 (his contemporary was Aristides the Dialectician), and Stilpo, who lived  c.  360-280. Alexinus ( c.  339-265), a younger figure, is well known for  a  debate  on  rhetorical  questions  with  the  Epicurean  Hermarchus, dated - with certainty - to 267/6, and for his attacks on Zeno of Citium. 
Philo the Dialectician was a student of Diodorus Cronus between 310 and 30 0,  and  a  contemporary  of  Zeno  of  Citium.  Between  280  and  275
Panthoides, whose lectures were attended by the Peripatetic Lycon, was active; while the  floruit  of Aristotle and Artemidorus is put at around 250. 
The first is known for having contributed to the overthrow of the rule of Abantidas of Sicyon, the second for attacking the Stoic Chrysippus. 
The  Cyrenaic  philosophers  traced  their  ancestry  to  Aristippus  of Cyrene, who lived in the last decades of the fifth century and the first half of the fourth. An important place among them is occupied by his daughter Arete and his grandson of the same name, who was e◊ectively the creator  of  Cyrenaic  philosophy.  We  have  some  chronological  details  about Antipater of Cyrene ( c.  350-250) and Aristotle of Cyrene, a contemporary of Stilpo ( c.  360-280), whose membership of the Cyrenaic school has been put in doubt. The  floruit  of Hegesias has been placed around 290, while Theodorus the Atheist lived  c.  340-250. 
104 Decleva Caizzi 1992a and Mansfeld 1995. 
105 On the existence and name of this school, cf. Cambiano 1977 and Sedley 1977. Against this, see Döring 1989. Like Giannantoni 1990, iv 41-50, I am inclined to accept Sedley's hypothesis regarding  the  'Dialectical'  school.  For  the  chronology  of  these  philosophers  I  follow  Sedley 1977, 107 n. 23. Cf. also the useful chronological table  ibid. 82. 
106 This chronology is reconstructed in Sedley 1977, 78-80 and 107-9. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
48
c h r o n o l o g y
Diogenes of Sinope, founder of the Cynic  hairesis, lived approximately between 412-403 and 324/1.107 Crates of Thebes ( c.  368/5-288/5) was his disciple; he was joined in his philosophical studies by his wife Hipparchia of  Maroneia  and  his  son  Metrocles.  The  philosopher  Menedemus,  the butt of attacks by the Epicurean Colotes in his two works  Against Plato's Lysis  and  Against Plato's Euthydemus,108 was about ten years younger. 
Menedemus of Eretria, philosopher and politician (he was  proboulos  of his  city),  was  head  of  a  philosophical  school  there  and  lived  to  the  age of eighty-four, from 345/4 to 261/0.109 Menedemus was a pupil first of Stilpo at Megara, then of Polemo and Theophrastus at Athens. 
viii Survey
a. The Academy
c. 408 Birth of Speusippus
396/5 Birth of Xenocrates at Chalcedon
c. 390 Birth of Heraclides Ponticus
c. 370 Xenocrates goes to Athens
367 or 361 Xenocrates accompanies Plato on his second or third trip to Sicily c. 365 Heraclides enters the Academy
361/0 Heraclides Ponticus made head of the Academy
348/7 (Theophilos' archonship) Death of Plato; Speusippus becomes scholarch 339/8 (Lysimachides' archonship) Death of Speusippus; Xenocrates becomes scholarch. Heraclides leaves Athens and returns to Heraclea Pontica 331
Chaeron becomes ruler of Pellene
322
Xenocrates' mission to Antipater in Macedonia
316/15 Birth of Arcesilaus (Hermippus in D.L.)
314/13 Death of Xenocrates; Polemo becomes scholarch
c. 310 Death of Heraclides Ponticus
276/5 (Philocrates' archonship) Death of Crantor
275-273 Birth of Eratosthenes of Cyrene
270/69 Death of Polemo; Crates becomes scholarch
268-264(?) Death of Crates; Arcesilaus becomes scholarch after Socratides refuses o√ce
post 246 Eratosthenes is summoned to Alexandria in Egypt by Ptolemy III Euergetes 241/0 Death of Arcesilaus; Lacydes becomes scholarch
214/13 Birth of Carneades of Cyrene
206/5 (Callistratos' archonship) Death of Lacydes
post 205/4 Death of Eratosthenes
107 I agree with Giannantoni 1990, iv 421-2. 
108 For the identity of the philosopher and a summary of the argument, cf. Giannantoni 1990, iv 581-3 and Gigante 1992, 71-8. 
109 Cf. Knoepfler 1991. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
s u r v e y
49
187/6 Birth of Clitomachus in Carthage
185/4 (Eupolemos' archonship) Death of Moschion
174/3 (Alexander's archonship) Death of Eubulus of Ephesus and Eubulus of Erythrae 168/7 (Xenocles' archonship) Death of Agamestor
167/6 (Nicosthenes' archonship) Death of Telecles
164/3 Birth of Charmadas
163/2 Clitomachus goes to Athens
159/8 (Epainetos' archonship) Death of Apollonius
154/3 (Aristaichmos' archonship) Birth of Philo at Larissa
143/2 (Aristophon's archonship) Death of Eubulus
142/1 (Aristophantos' archonship) Charmadas, aged twenty-two, goes to Athens 140/39 (Hagnotheos' archonship) Clitomachus founds his own school in the Palladium
137/6 Carneades of Cyrene retires as scholarch; the younger Carneades becomes scholarch
131/0 (Epicles' archonship) Death of the younger Carneades; succeeded by Crates of Tarsus
130/29 (Nicomachus' archonship) Philo goes to Athens
130/29-110/09 Philo studies with Clitomachus and with an unknown Apollodorus c. 130-120 Birth of Antiochus of Ascalon
129/8 (Lyciscus' archonship) Death of Carneades of Cyrene; Clitomachus re-enters the Academy
127/6 Death of Crates of Tarsus; Clitomachus becomes e◊ective scholarch of the Academy
120/19 (Eumachos' archonship) Death of Boethus of Marathon
110/09 (Polycleitus' archonship) Death of Clitomachus; Philo becomes scholarch of the Academy
ante 91 Death of Charmadas
c. 90
Antiochus founds the 'Old Academy'
88
Philo establishes himself at Rome
87-84 Antiochus at Alexandria in Egypt
84/3
(Nicetes' archonship) Death of Philo (in Rome?)
79
Antiochus returns to Athens
c. 68
Death of Antiochus
b . Th e   P e r i p a t o s
372/1 or 371/0 Birth of Theophrastus
ante 350 Birth of Eudemus of Rhodes
c. 350 Birth of Chamaeleon and of Demetrius of Phalerum
c. 350-281 Lifespan of Duris and of Lynceus of Samos
348/7 On Plato's death, Theophrastus (?) and Aristotle go to Assos to see Hermias of Atarneus
345/4 Theophrastus transfers to Mytilene on Lesbos with Aristotle 343/2 Aristotle is summoned by Philip II to Mieza to be Alexander's tutor c. 340 Birth of Clearchus of Soli
340-330 Birth of Strato of Lampsacus
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
50
c h r o n o l o g y
337/6 Theophrastus and Aristotle return to Athens. Aristotle opens his school in the Lyceum
323/2 Aristotle is forced to leave Athens and flees to Stagira 322/1 Death of Aristotle; Theophrastus becomes scholarch for 36 years. Strato goes to Egypt to the court of Ptolemy I Soter; Eudemus returns to Rhodes 317-307 Demetrius of Phalerum becomes governor of Athens
307
Demetrius of Phalerum forced into exile (he goes to Alexandria in Egypt) after 297; maybe in 295, when Demetrius Poliorcetes marched northward 30 0/299 or 299/8 Birth of Lyco
post 297 Demetrius of Phalerum exiled from Thebes
288/7 or 287/6 Death of Theophrastus; Strato becomes scholarch for 18 years. Neleus returns to Scepsis
post 283 Death of Demetrius of Phalerum
281
Chamaeleon's mission to Seleucus I
270/69 or 269/8 Death of Strato; succeeded by Lyco, scholarch for 44 years 260-255 Prytanis' floruit
c. 250 Birth of Aristo of Ceos and of Phormion
247 or 244 Lyco honoured at Athens ( IG  2
ii
791)
226/5 or 225/4 Death of Lyco; Aristo of Ceos becomes scholarch 225
Prytanis' mission to Antigonus Doson
223
Prytanis redrafts the constitution of Megalopolis
c. 20 0 Birth of Critolaus of Phaselis
195/4 The elderly Phormion speaks before Hannibal at Ephesus
155
Critolaus' mission to Rome
c. 118 Death of Critolaus
c . 
Th e   S t o a
334/3 Birth of Zeno (according to Persaeus)
? 
Birth of Zeno (according to Apollodorus)
330-325 Birth of Dionysius of Heraclea
331/0 (Aristophanes' archonship) Birth of Cleanthes (according to Apollodorus) 307/6 Birth of Persaeus of Citium
c. 285 Birth of Sphaerus of Borysthenes
280-276 Birth of Chrysippus
c. 274 Persaeus arrives in Pella at the court of Antigonus Gonatas c. 265 Sphaerus goes to Athens
262/1 (Arrheneides' archonship) Death of Zeno (according to Apollodorus); Cleanthes becomes scholarch
260-256 Persaeus' floruit
c. 250 Death of Dionysius Metathemenos
c. 244 Persaeus becomes archon of Corinth
243
Death of Persaeus
c. 240 Sphaerus goes to Sparta to Cleomenes III







c. 230 Birth of Diogenes of Seleucia
230/29 (Jason's archonship) Death of Cleanthes (according to Apollodorus) 229-209 Aristocreon at Athens
c. 222 Sphaerus follows Cleomenes III to Egypt
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
s u r v e y
51
208-204 Death of Chrysippus, aged 73
c. 185-180 Birth of Panaetius at Rhodes
184/3 (Charicles' archonship) Aristocreon honoured in Athens
c. 170 Birth of Mnesarchus and of Dardanus
post 168/7 Panaetius studies with Crates of Mallos at Pergamon ante 155 Panaetius becomes  hierothute-s  of Poseidon Hippios at Lindos 155
Diogenes of Seleucia, Carneades the Elder and Critolaus of Phaselis sent on diplomatic mission to Rome
post 155 Panaetius studies with Diogenes of Seleucia at Athens c. 150-140 Death of Diogenes. 
149/8 Panaetius is  hieropoios  in Athens on the occasion of the celebration of the Ptolemaia (they presumably honoured Ptolemy III)
post 146 Panaetius meets Scipio Aemilianus (in Rome?) for the first time 140-138 Panaetius accompanies Scipio during his diplomatic missions to the East and to Greece
c. 138-129 Panaetius travels between Rome and Athens
c. 130 Birth of Posidonius
130/29 Death of Scipio and of Antipater of Tarsus; Panaetius becomes scholarch. 
110/09 Death of Panaetius. Mnesarchus and Dardanus are  principes Stoicorum  in Athens; Mnesarchus  vigebat
post 88 Death of Dardanus and of Mnesarchus
60
Cicero sends to Posidonius a  hypomne-ma  in Greek of his work on his consulship 51 (?) Posidonius' second mission to Rome
d . 
Th e   G a r d e n
342/1 (Sosigenes' archonship) Birth of Epicurus
331/0 Birth of Metrodorus
328/7 Epicurus begins philosophical studies aged fourteen
c. 325 Birth of Idomeneus and Hermarchus (?)
c. 324 Birth of Pythocles
323-321 Epicurus is ephebe in Athens
c. 320 Birth of Colotes
320-311 Epicurus in Colophon (?)
311/10-307/6 Epicurus teaches at Mytilene and at Lampsacus; comes into contact with Colotes, Hermarchus, Idomeneus, Pythocles and Polyaenus
307/6 or 305/4 Epicurus in Athens; founds the Garden. Pythocles aged seventeen or eighteen
c. 306-301 Idomeneus is court dignitary at Lampsacus
301/0 (Clearchos' archonship) Epicurus writes Book xiv of the  On Nature 30 0/299 (Hegemachos' archonship) Epicurus writes Book xv of the  On Nature 296/5 (Nicias' archonship) Epicurus writes Book xxviii of the  On Nature c. 290 Timocrates' apostasy
290-280 Death of Polyaenus
278/7 (Democles' archonship) Death of Metrodorus
271/0 (Pytharatus' archonship) Death of Epicurus
post 268 Colotes writes  On the Impossibility of Living on the Principles of the Other Philosophers  dedicated to King Ptolemy II Philadelphos Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
52
c h r o n o l o g y
c. 250 Death of Hermarchus; Polystratus becomes scholarch; birth of Basilides (?) 219/18 (Menecrates' archonship) Death of Polystratus; Dionysius of Lamptrai becomes scholarch
205/4 (Isocrates' archonship) Death of Dionysius; Basilides becomes scholarch c. 175 Death of Basilides; Thespis (?) becomes scholarch
? 
Apollodorus succeeds Thespis (?) as scholarch
c. 150 Birth of Zeno of Sidon and of Demetrius of Laconia
138
Birth of Phaedrus
119/18 (Hipparchos' archonship) Phaedrus is ephebe
c. 10 0 Zeno of Sidon becomes scholarch
88
Phaedrus in Rome
c. 75
Death of Zeno of Sidon; Phaedrus becomes scholarch
70/69 Death of Phaedrus; Patro becomes scholarch
e . 
Th e   P y r r h o n i s t s
365-360 Birth of Pyrrho
334-324 Pyrrho and Anaxarchus follow Alexander the Great into Asia c. 325 Birth of Timon
275-270 Death of Pyrrho
c. 275 Timon sets up in Athens
c. 230 or 225 Death of Timon
f. 
Th e   M i n o r   S o c r a t i c s
c. 412-403 Birth of Diogenes of Sinope
c. 368-365 Birth of Crates of Thebes
c. 360 Birth of Stilpo of Megara
c. 360-280 Aristotle of Cyrene
c. 350-250 Antipater of Cyrene
ante 348 Birth of Euphantus
345/4 Birth of Menedemus of Eretria
c. 340-250 Theodorus the Atheist
c. 339 Birth of Alexinus
c. 324-321 Death of Diogenes of Sinope
c. 320  floruit  of Dionysius of Chalcedon and Euphantus c. 315-284 Diodorus Cronus active in Athens and Alexandria;  floruit  of Aristides 310-30 0 Philo the Dialectician studies with Diodorus Cronus
c. 290  floruit  of Hegesias
c. 288/5 Death of Crates of Thebes
c. 284 Death of Diodorus Cronus
c. 280 Death of Stilpo
c. 280-275  floruit  of Panthoides
267/6 (Menecles' archonship)  Letter  by Hermarchus to Theophides against Alexinus c. 265 Death of Alexinus
261/0 Death of Menedemus of Eretria
c. 250  floruit  of Aristotle the Dialectician and Artemidorus Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
 Appendix
Successions of scholarchs
 Year
 Academy
 Lyceum
 Stoa
 Kepos
348/7-339/8
Speusippus
339/8-314/13
Xenocrates
322/1-288/7 or
287/6
Theophrastus
?-262/1
Zeno
314/13-270/69
Polemo
307/6-271/0
Epicurus
288/7 or
287/6-270/9 or
269/8
Strato
 c.  271/0-250
Hermarchus
270/69-268-264
Crates
270/69 or
269/8-226/5 or
225/4
Lycon
268-264-241/0
Arcesilaus
262/1-230/29
Cleanthes
 c.  250- ante  220/19
Polystratus
241/0-226/5 or 
225/4
Lacydes
230/29-208-204
Chrysippus
226/5 or 225/4-? 
Ariston
226/5 or 225/4-
167/6
Telecles and
Euander; Hegesinus
 ante  220/19-201/0
Dionisius
208-205-? 
Zeno of Tarsus
201/0- c.  175
Basilides
 c.  175-? 
Thespis (?)
?-150-140
Diogenes
167/6-137/6
Carneades I
?- c.  10 0
Apollodorus
 c.  155
Critolaus
[53]
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
54
c h r o n o l o g y
150-140-129/8
Antipater
137/6-131/0
Carneades II
131/0-127/6
Crates of Tarsus
129/8-110/9
Panaetius
?- c.  110
Diodorus of Tirus
 Year
 Academy
 Lyceum
 Stoa
 Kepos
127/6-110/9
Clitomachus
110/9-84/3
Philo
 c.  10 0- c.  75
Zeno of Sidon
 c.  75-70
Phaedrus
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
3
Organization and structure of
the philosophical schools
t i z i a n o   d o r a n d i
Before tackling in detail the issue of the organization and structure of the philosophical schools, both in the Hellenistic period and more generally, one must try to find an answer to the question of what a philosophical school was. This is a di√cult question, which has not yet found an answer that copes satisfactorily with all the problems it poses.1
Until recently the theory of Wilamowitz prevailed, according to which the  philosophers'  schools  were  religious  societies  ( thiasoi),  dedicated to the  worship  of  the  gods,  or  the  Muses  in  this  particular  case.2
Wilamowitz started from the presumption that all such ancient societies had cult characteristics and that, for this reason, they were recognized by Athenian law, giving them the status of legal bodies. From an outsider's viewpoint the philosophical schools would therefore have appeared to be religious societies devoted to the worship of the Muses, while internally they would have developed functions like those of modern universities. In the Academy and Peripatos, above all, there would have been activity in scientific  research  and  teaching  based  on  a  division  of  duties  between teachers old and young, and carried out in a series of public lectures and private seminars. 
Wilamowitz's theory has attracted criticism and objections. In particular, it has been discovered that certain elements which for Wilamowitz were  typical  of  a   thiasos (statues  of  the  Muses  and  their  worship)  were shared by other institutions like the gymnasia and children's schools, and were therefore not by themselves enough to support the identification of philosophical schools as religious societies.3 To state that the philosophical schools were institutions of common ownership in which the scholarch (the head of the school) was the single owner of the property and all the fixtures has become unacceptable;4 nor is there clear, concrete proof to  lead  one  to  say  that  the  philosophical  schools  were  organized  like 1 For the  status quaestionis  see Isnardi Parente 1974b; 1986, 350-7; and Natali 1991, 93-120. 
2 Wilamowitz 1881, 181-6, 194-7, 263-88. 
3 Gomperz 1899. 
4 Gottschalk 1972, 320, 329. 
[55]
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
56
t h e   s c h o o l s :   o r g a n i z a t i o n   a n d   s t r u c t u r e thiasoi  devoted to the worship of the Muses. Still less does the assumption that the schools resorted to this device to obtain the status of a legal body bear up, since such a concept was foreign to the Greek world. So it has been assumed that the philosophers' schools were instead secular institutions  with  educational  aims  directed  towards  propagation  of  useful knowledge. They would have been supported by private funds and have had nothing to do with the state and therefore no need for any authoriza-tion for their existence and activity.5
But there is no lack of support for Wilamowitz's theory, particularly as regards  the  Academy.  There  would  seem  to  be  no  serious  reason  to oppose  the  recognition  of   thiasos  characteristics  in  the  Athenian philosophical  schools.  If  anything,  the  need  for  the  legal  and  religious device of an association ( koinon) devoted to the Muses, developed with time in the case of the Academy: some think it might have become necessary in the second phase of the school's history, at the point when there was the prospect that a poor non-citizen philosopher such as Xenocrates would become scholarch.6 As far as the Peripatos goes, the theory7 that it was  a  permanent  foundation  much  like  elementary  schools  or  funeral associations seems to be the correct one. The Peripatos was created out of the legacy of Aristotle, who had as his aim not the provision of education for the young nor the worship of the Muses, but rather the fulfilment of the  ideals  of  the  theoretical  life  ( bios  theore-tikos),  the  shared  pursuit  of philosophy ( sunphilosophein) which was one of the methods he indicated for  spending  periods  of  leisure  ( schole-)  with  one's  friends  (Arist.  EN
ix.1172a1-8). 
It  seems  clear  from  what  has  been  said  above  that  there  is  a  general interest in the initial foundation of the schools, particularly the Academy and the Peripatos. From Wilamowitz on, the Academy has been seen as the prototype for every school, and reconstructions of all other schools (primarily  the  Peripatos)  have  been  modelled  on  the  blueprint  of  its organization and structure. But it is also evident that the schools did not always  have  the  same  characteristics  and  organization,  nor  could  such characteristics and organization (nor their aims) be the same for all the schools for the whole of their long existence. 
For example, despite interesting points of similarity, there are important  di◊erences  between  the  Academy  and  Peripatos,  on  the  one  hand, and Epicurus' Garden8 on the other. Its organization, more than that of 5 Lynch 1972, 105-34 and Wehrli 1976, 129-30. 
6 Isnardi Parente 1986, 350-7. 
7 Natali 1991, 93-120, following the findings of Veyne 1976, 241-4. 
8 Cf. Clay 1983b, 277-8. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   s c h o o l s :   o r g a n i z a t i o n   a n d   s t r u c t u r e 57
any other school, was based on principles of emulation, commemoration and imitation.9 Since one of the great aspirations of Epicurean philosophy was the imitation of divinity, the emulation of those who had reached a  state  of  maximum  perfection  in  imitating  the  gods  -  Epicurus, Metrodorus, Hermarchus and Polyaenus (the so-called leaders or  kathe-gemones) - was, for students in the Garden, a primary and vital consequence. 
Already  among  the  first  generations  of  Epicureans  the  idea  of   kathe-gemones  gave rise to an ideal model of a 'shared life' ( contubernium), which took shape as 'many members of one body' (Sen.  Ep.  33.4). There was no attempt  to  achieve  a  meticulous  hierarchical  organization  in  which philosophoi,  philologoi ('scholars'),  kathe-ge-tai ('professors')  and   sune-theis ('intimates') were distinguished.10 The ideal of freedom of speech ( par-rhêsia)  between  teachers  and  students,  the  basis  of  a  common  lifestyle inspired by the pedagogical aims of friendship, kindliness and goodwill prevailed. That lifestyle was founded on the practice of common celebration, with festivals and feasts, of holidays kept in memory of Epicurus and other  friends  and  family  who  had  died  prematurely,  like  Metrodorus, Polyaenus and Epicurus' brothers.11 We know of at least five cults celebrated  within  the  school:  the  annual  funeral  cult  which  Epicurus  had established in memory of his parents and brothers; the two celebrations of Epicurus himself - an annual one, on the twentieth day of the month of Gamelion, his birthday, and one on the twentieth of each month, in honour also of Metrodorus. There was also a day devoted to commemorating the birthdays of Epicurus' brothers, in the month of Poseideon, and a day for Polyaenus, which occurred in the month of Metageitnion. 
We  also  have  some  interesting  information  on  the  internal  organization and lifestyle of the Academy and Peripatos. A famous fragment of the comic  playwright  Epicrates12 describes  how  Plato,  Speusippus  and Menedemus tried to distinguish and define the various species of animals and plants. Aristotle's writings speak of the use made by the philosopher of tablets, anatomical charts, diagrams and other teaching aids in his lectures.13 In the last century there was a desire to find in these accounts, and especially  in  that  of  Epicrates,  confirmation  of  the  suggestion  that  the Academy  and  Peripatos  were  prototypes  of  modern  universities.  Plato was seen as the first organizer of scientific research in the Academy, and it was  assumed  that  the  school  had  regular  programmes  and  seminars  in which  students  were  assigned  research  projects  under  the  guidance  of 19 Cf. Clay 1983b, 264-70. 
10 De Witt 1936, rightly criticized by Gigante 1983a, 110-13. Cf. Clay 1983b, 269-70. 
11 Clay 1986, 11-28. 
12 Fr. 10 Kassel-Austin. 
13 Jackson 1920, 191-20 0. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
58
t h e   s c h o o l s :   o r g a n i z a t i o n   a n d   s t r u c t u r e their master.14 But these are dangerous theories, fully rebutted by successive  critics  and  with  little  plausibility  since  they  are  tied  too  closely  to modern culture, experience and modes of thought. From a later period, we do have a report about Carneades' lectures ( scholai) being written up and  read  (and  criticized)  at  a  next  meeting.15 Unfortunately  we  know nothing about the Stoa. 
The individual institutions were run by a scholarch ( prostate-s,  archo-n) who could be chosen or appointed in di◊erent ways: the previous scholarch could nominate his successor directly, before his death (Plato chose Speusippus, Strato Lyco, Epicurus Hermarchus);16 the election could be decided by a free vote (Xenocrates was elected as Speusippus' successor; Socratides  as  Crates'  successor).17 A  scholarch  could  refuse  the  job  in favour  of  another  member  of  the  school  (Socratides  gave  way  to Arcesilaus). As a rule the scholarch stayed in the job until his death: there were two significant exceptions to this, both in the Academy: Lacydes and  Carneades  of  Cyrene  retired  from  running  the  school  while  they were  still  alive  because  of  their  health.18 But  there  are  no  examples  of joint scholarchs. The case of Mnesarchus and Dardanus, thought to have been joint successors to Panaetius as head of the Stoa, is based on false premisses. 
In some schools there was in use a distinction between younger students ( neaniskoi) and older ones ( presbuteroi), perhaps corresponding to a di◊erent level of attainment.19 What is also significant is that, at least in the cases of the Academy and the Garden, the schools were open to female students: Axiothea and Lasthenia were pupils of Plato and Speusippus; Batis,  Boidion,  Demetria,  Edia,  Leontion,  Mammarion,  Nikidion,  and Themista were active members of the Garden.20 Diogenes Laertius credits Theophrastus with two thousand students: it is di√cult to establish whether this number stands for the total number of the philosopher's students during his whole period of teaching, or the usual attendance at his lectures.21
We know that Plato, Xenocrates and Polemo took up residence in the garden of the Academy and that, during Polemo's time as scholarch, some 14 On this question, see Isnardi Parente 1974b, 862-70. 
15 Phld.  Acad. hist., cols. 22.35-23.3, cf. Mansfeld 1994b, 193. 
16 Cf. D.L.iv.1 (Speusippus); D.L. v.62 (Lyco); D.L. x.17 (Hermarchus). 
17 Phld.  Acad. hist. , cols. 6.41-7.14 (Xenocrates); 18.1-7 (cf. D.L. iv.32: Arcesilaus). 
18 Cf.  D.L.  iv.60  and  Phld.  Acad.  hist. ,  col.  27.1-7  (Lacydes);  cols.  24.28-25.16;  25.39-26.4
(Carneades). 
19 We  have  definite  information  about  the  Academy:  Phld.  Acad.  hist. ,  cols.  6.41  and  18.6  (cf. 
Athen. ii.59d-f ) and the Peripatos: D.L. v.53, 70-1. 
20 Cf. Dorandi 1991a. 
21 On this question, cf. Sollenberger 1992, 3828. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   s c h o o l s :   o r g a n i z a t i o n   a n d   s t r u c t u r e 59
students followed their master's example.22 The members of the Garden also lived within their school's grounds. 
The methods of upkeep of the schools took di◊erent forms. The system practised by Epicurus is well known: free donations ( suntaxeis) were given to  the  Garden  by  influential  persons,  sometimes  at  the  request  of Epicurus  himself.  If  Diogenes  Laertius'  account  is  to  be  trusted, Speusippus used to demand an honorarium from his students (D.L. iv.2); the Stoics Cleanthes, Chrysippus and Diogenes of Seleucia required payment for their lectures.23 But it is not certain, in the cases of the Academy and  the  Stoa,  that  the  payment  of  fees  was  actually  intended  for  the upkeep of the school. Perhaps it was geared to the actual or presumed personal needs of individual scholarchs. 
I have already called attention to the fact that all the schools without exception underwent an evolution, not only in thought but also in structure,  over  the  centuries  of  their  existence,  although  it  is  not  always clearly documented. I have traced the principal directions taken by individual schools in the pages devoted to their chronologies,24 but it would be wise to note here some important points concerning possible influences  on  the  outward  form  of  their  organization  and  structure.  In  the case of the Academy there is a point of demarcation at the moment when Speusippus died and Xenocrates succeeded as scholarch. But the situation becomes more complicated - and more interesting - in the period from  the  death  of  Arcesilaus  to  Antiochus:  Lacydes  and  Carneades  of Cyrene resigned as scholarchs while they were still alive. This brings us to the schism in the time of Clitomachus and the birth of the 'Old Academy'
of  Antiochus  of  Ascalon  and  his  brother  Aristus  in  opposition  to  the sceptically-oriented  Academy  of  Philo  of  Larissa.  The  Peripatos,  after Lyco,  witnessed  a  rapid  decline  to  the  point  where  under  Diodorus  of Tyre the school had practically disappeared as an institution. It recovered its prestige only in the first century bc with Cratippus of Pergamon. In the Stoa, after the first skirmishes of the separatist movements,25 there is a report suggesting that in the time of Antipater and Panaetius courses of instruction were o◊ered alongside those given by the o√cial scholarch. It is no accident that during this time at least two Stoics of note, apart from Antipater  and  Panaetius,  were  active  in  Athens,  i.e.  Dardanus  and Mnesarchus  (Cicero  describes  them  as  'leaders  of  the  Stoics',  principes Stoicorum, Cic.  Acad. ii.69); these men were roughly contemporary with 22 Dillon 1990 (1983). 
23 Cleanthes: Phld.  Stoic. hist. , col. 19; Chrysippus: Plu.  Stoic. Rep.  1043e; Diogenes of Seleucia: Cic.  Acad. ii.98. 
24 See above, pp. 31-54. 
25 See above, p. 41. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
60
t h e   s c h o o l s :   o r g a n i z a t i o n   a n d   s t r u c t u r e Panaetius.26 Even in the Garden, at least from the second half of the second century bc, there was no unity of thought or institution: even if certain 'dissident' groups, like the Epicureans who ran a school at Rhodes, are excluded, one can identify the presence of strong personalities within the ambit of the mother school - Zeno of Sidon, Demetrius of Laconia and  Phaedrus  -  symptomatic  of  a  situation  of  unease  and  indeed  fragmentation of its original unity. 
One should not overlook the other serious problem: secession by certain members of a particular school in favour of a rival or else to found a school of their own. In the case of the Academy the most striking instance was  undoubtedly  that  involving  the  young  Aristotle  who,  on  Plato's death, left the Academy and opened his own school in the Peripatos a few years later (335/4). Not long before that (339/8), Menedemus of Pyrrha and  Heraclides  Ponticus  had  also  left  the  Academy  on  the  election  of Xenocrates as scholarch. Some centuries later there were episodes involving Clitomachus, returning to the fold of his mother school after having run an establishment of his own; Metrodorus of Stratonicea, who moved to  Epicureanism;  Dion  of  Alexandria  and  Cratippus  of  Pergamon,  who became Peripatetics; and the very serious case of Antiochus of Ascalon. I know of no such instances in the Peripatos, but in the Stoa there are the cases of Aristo of Chios, of Dionysius  Metathemenos ('Turncoat') who at the end of his life went over to the Garden, of Herillus of Carthage, and of Chrysippus who left Cleanthes to study with Carneades and Lacydes but returned to the Stoa to become its third scholarch. Examples of schism also took place in the Garden: in Epicurus' lifetime Timocrates, brother of Metrodorus, not only left the school but took part in a defamatory campaign  against  Epicurus,  which  proved  very  damaging.27 Philodemus informs us of a whole series of 'dissident' Epicureans (called by him  sophis-tai) who lived between the second and first centuries bc and were especially active in the centres of Cos and Rhodes:28 there are references to doctrines of a group of Epicureans involved in discussions about the status of rhetoric as an art ( techne-), about the topic of anger, and about questions of theology - we find the names of Nicasicrates, possibly the head of the school at Rhodes, Timasagoras, Antiphanes and Bromius. 
We also have information about the existence of philosophical schools 26 The theory of Ferrary 1988, 449-64, that one could already at this moment speak of the presence of three di◊erent currents of thought, owing allegiance to Diogenes of Seleucia, Antipater of Tarsus and Panaetius of Rhodes, is perhaps a bit hazardous. However, it seems evident that the Stoa's internal unity had already lost its coherence by this point. 
27 Cf. Angeli 1993, 13-17. 
28 Cf. Longo and Tepedino 1981 and especially Sedley 1989a. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   s c h o o l s :   o r g a n i z a t i o n   a n d   s t r u c t u r e 61
outside Athens, but it is hard to say whether they were actual branches. 
With regard to the Academy, a significant case is that of the Assos school, created  by  the  intervention  of  Hermias  of  Atarneus,  where  we  find Erastus, Coriscus, Aristotle and possibly Theophrastus.29 More doubtful is the presence of a branch of the Academy in Alexandria, supposedly run for a certain time by Zenodorus of Tyre.30 We know that Epicurus, in the early years of his teaching, had opened a school at Lampsacus, which continued to flourish after his departure for Athens.31 Demetrius of Laconia successfully ran a school at Miletus and possibly also one in Italy.32 The highly significant case of Philodemus, who left Athens to go to Italy, first to  Rome  then  to  Herculaneum,  lies  outside  the  chronological  limits  of this study. We are also told of the existence of a Stoic school at Rhodes, run by Posidonius.33 Also interesting is the fact that not only many scholarchs but also a large number of students came from peripheral geographical  regions  of  the  Mediterranean  basin,  often  far  away  from  Greek influence:  the  coasts  of  Asia  Minor,  Africa,  the  interior  of  Syria  and Mesopotamia.34
Beside  this  kind  of  organized  and  institutionalized  school  ( scholai, diatribai), there were also groups of people who got together to practise philosophy in an apparently less rigidly structured form, which could be defined as a 'pseudo-school' or, better, 'philosophical tendency' ( ago-gai  or haireseis).35 The so-called minor Socratic schools (Cyrenaics, Dialecticians, Cynics) and Pyrrhonism should be considered as fitting under this heading. 
The modern reader at this point might demand a reply to more specific questions:  what  did  it  mean  to  be  a  member  of  a  school?  Was  there  a registration  fee  (with  or  without  tax)?  Could  one  pass  freely  from  one school to another, in order to pursue courses with di◊erent teachers, with di◊erent methods, ideas and programmes? Furthermore, could a philosopher begin to teach freely in a specific public place (e.g. the  Stoa Poikile-  or one of the many Athenian gymnasia, the  Lacydeum  or the  Ptolemaeum) or did he have to be authorized by somebody? This question is closely tied to 29 Phld.  Acad. hist. , col. v. Cf. Dorandi 1991b, 31-3. 
30 Phld.  Acad. hist. , col. 23.2-3. Cf. Dorandi 1991b, 70, n. 239. 
31 Cf. Angeli 1981 and 1988b. 
32 Puglia 1988, 37-48 and Romeo 1988, 25-32. 
33 Moretti 1976. 
34 Early  evidence  can  be  found  from  lists  of  the  students  of  Plato,  Arcesilaus,  Carneades  and Antiochus  (?)  handed  down  at  Phld.  Acad.  hist. ,  cols.  6.1-20;  20.4-44;  22.35-24.16  (cf. 
32.32-42);  34.3-16,  or  those  of  the  students  of  Zeno  of  Tarsus,  Diogenes  of  Seleucia  and Panaetius: Phld.  Stoic. hist. , cols. 48; 51-2; 63-8. 
35  Ago-ge-  probably had the same original meaning as the later   hairesis (Glucker 1978, 165). The semantic  development  and  history  of  the  term   hairesis  has  been  traced  by  Glucker  1978, 159-225. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
62
t h e   s c h o o l s :   o r g a n i z a t i o n   a n d   s t r u c t u r e that  already  discussed  concerning  the  legal  status  of  the  philosophical schools.  These  questions  cannot,  in  my  opinion,  be  given  a  specific  or definitive answer because of an almost total lack of ancient sources which might throw light on them. We read that Arcesilaus, through innate mod-esty, urged his disciples to follow the courses of other teachers and on one occasion  actually  accompanied  one  of  his  pupils  who  came  from  Chios and recommended him to the Peripatetic Hieronymus (D.L. iv.42). The same  Arcesilaus  at  one  point  decided  to  leave  Theophrastus'  school  for Crantor's (D.L. iv.29-30). From two passages in the  History of the Stoa  by Philodemus  it  seems  possible  to  deduce  that,  at  least  from  the  time  of Antipater and Panaetius, there were series of introductory lectures in the school,  parallel  to  those  of  the  scholarchs,  given  to  the  most  advanced members.36 If  the  expression   scholastikai  esthe-tes  of  which  Diogenes Laertius speaks in the  Life of Bion  really carries the sense of 'scholars' (i.e. 
philosophers') clothing', we have a curious testimony that in at least some schools a particular kind of clothing was required or adopted.37 But nothing more precise has been discovered. 
36 Phld.  Stoic. hist.,  cols. 60 and 77, 1-3. This seems to be the meaning of the verb προεξα!γειν. Cf. 
Dorandi 1994a, 167-9. 
37 On this last point see Capasso 1980. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
p a r t   i i
LO G I C  A N D  LA N G UAG E
*
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
4
Introduction
j o n a t h a n   b a r n e s
i A map of logic
The Stoics were the innovative logicians of the Hellenistic period; and the leading logician of the school was its third scholarch, Chrysippus. Most of this section of the  History  will therefore describe Stoic ideas and Stoic theories. Its hero will be Chrysippus. 
Logic  is  the  study  of  inference,  and  hence  of  the  items  upon  which inference depends - of propositional structure (or 'grammar'), of meaning  and  reference.  That  part  of  their  subject  which  the  Hellenistic philosophers called λογικη! ( logike-)  was a larger discipline;1 for  logike- was the  science  which  studies  λο!γο in  all  its  manifestations,2 and  logic  is included  in   logike-  as  a  part.  Indeed  as  a  part  of  a  part.  For  the  Stoics divided  logike-  into two subparts, rhetoric and dialectic; and logic is a part of dialectic.3
The founder famously distinguished rhetoric from dialectic by a gesture:
When Zeno of Citium was asked how rhetoric di◊ered from dialectic, he closed his hand and then opened it again, saying 'Thus'. With the closing he aligned the rounded and brief character of dialectic, and by opening and extending his fingers he hinted at the breadth of rhetorical power. 
(S.E.  M  ii.6-7)
The  gesture  is  picturesque,  and  it  caught  the  imagination;4 but  the thought behind it was neither original nor enlightening. There were also formal definitions:
1 On  the  parts  of  philosophy  see  the  Preface  pp.  xiii-xvi;  see  also  Hadot  1979,  Ierodiakonou 1993b and Dörrie and Baltes 1996, 205-31. 
2 See e.g. [Plu.]  Plac.  874e. (But note Hülser 1987-8, lxxxii.) 3 D.L.  vii.41  (ε3νιοι); Sen.  Ep. 139.17. Other divisions of λογικη! are recorded: D.L. vii.41; cf. 
Hülser 1987-88, lxxix-xc. 
4 Other reports in Cic.  Fin. ii.17;  Orat. 113; Quint.  Inst. ii.7; cf. Varro  apud  Cassiod.  Inst.ii.2; Cic. 
 Brut.  309.  Compare  Zeno's  more  complicated  gesture  designed  to  illuminate  the  stages  of knowledge: Cic.  Acad. ii.145. 
[65]
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
66
i n t r o d u c t i o n
Dialectic  is  the  science  of  conversing  correctly  where  the  speeches involve question and answer - and hence they also define it as the science of what is true and false and neither. (D.L. vii.42)
The first of these definitions, frequently repeated,5 is the prose version of Zeno's  gesture.  The  second6 is  elsewhere  ascribed  to  Posidonius  (D.L. 
vii.62): a shorter version - 'the science of what is true and false' - is also attested  (Cic.  Acad.  ii.91),  and  scholars  commonly  suppose  that Posidonius  enlarged  and  ameliorated  a  definition  which  had  been  standard in the Old Stoa.7
However that may be, a science 'of what is true and false' is a science which  discriminates  the true from the false;8 and it is a science whose subject-matter recognizes no limits 'for all objects are perceived by way of the study  of  λο!γοι'.9 But  dialectic  is  neither  a  superscience  nor  an  omniscience:  it  enables  us  to  discriminate  truth  and  falsity  on  any  question whatever inasmuch as its methods and theorems are 'topic neutral'; and by the same token it cannot, by itself, discriminate among the truths and falsities of physics or ethics. 
. . . dialectic is an art, but it does not e◊ect anything on its own unless it is linked to propositions (λο!γοι) from ethics or physics, as some of the Stoics maintained. (Phld.  Rhet. i,  PHerc.  1427, col. vi.10-18) Dialectic permeates all areas of inquiry, but as a collaborator or an ancillary. 
Dialectic was subdivided: one part studied signifiers or utterances, the other  part  studied  things  signified  or  'sayables'  or  'objects'.10 The  first subdivision  contained  a  farrago:  the  nature  of  language,  the  parts  of speech, virtues and vices of language, poetics, ambiguity, music, definitions  and  divisions,  etymology.  The  second  subdivision  was  further divided into two parts. One of these parts concerns 'presentations' and the  other  'sayables'.  The  former  part  is  essentially  epistemology.  The study of 'sayables' is essentially logic: it includes the study of the di◊erent kinds  of  sayable  and  their  parts  (grammar  and  semantics),  and  also  the study of arguments and argument-forms.11
5 See  PHerc. 1020, col. i, 25 (⫽ FDS  88, p. 90); Cic.  De Orat. ii.157; Sen.  Ep. 89.17; cf. D.L. vii.47, 48. 
6 Found also at S.E.  PH  i.94;  M  xi.187 (cf.  Suda s.v.  διαλεκτικη!, without reference to the Stoics). 
7 See e.g. Long 1978c, 103-5. 
8 So  Diogenes  of  Babylon:  Cic.  De  Orat.  i i.157;  cf.  D.L.  vii.47;  Phil.  Cong.  18.  Note  also Chrysippus,  apud  Plu.  Stoic. Rep. 1037b. 
9 D.L. vii.83: the text of this paragraph is corrupt; for suggestions see von Arnim 1903-24, ii.40; Gigante 1960; Long 1978c, 122 n. 9; Egli 1981, 24. 
10 The distinction is certainly Chrysippean: D.L. vii.62; cf. D.L. vii.43; Sen.  Ep. 139.17; S.E.  PH
ii.214 (ascribed to τινε);  Suda s.v.  διαλεκτικη! (no ascription). 
11 See D.L. vii.43-4. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   v a l u e   o f   l o g i c
67
The matter can be exhibited thus:
 logike-
rhetoric dialectic
signifiers signified
presentationss
ayables
This is only one among several Stoic maps of logic.12 Moreover, sections marked clearly on a map may be muddy on the terrain. Nonetheless, the map shows how the discipline of logic fits within the Stoic classification of the sciences: logic is a part of a part of the dialectical part of  logike-. 
ii The value of logic
Late authors report a dispute about the status of logic: is it a part of philosophy, or is it an instrument of philosophy? The Stoics took the former side,  the  Peripatetics  the  latter;  and  the  discussion,  the  significance  of which is greater than it may seem, was conducted with some subtlety.13
The dates of the war are uncertain - but there is reason to think that it was not  Hellenistic.14 However  that  may  be,  logic,  whether  part  or  instrument, was surely an indispensable aspect of philosophical study. After all, if the case for logic was not self-justified,15 an argument from authority was available: Plato and Aristotle and their followers, and Socrates himself, had all been passionate for dialectic; and, as Chrysippus urged, had they spoken of these subjects only in passing, one might perhaps dismiss this area of philosophy; but since they have spoken so carefully on the matter, as though dialectic were among the greatest and most indispensable of capacities, it is not plausible that they should make such a great  mistake,  given  the  general  qualities  which  we  observe  in  them. 
(Plu.  Stoic. Rep. 1046a)
12 In particular, the place of epistemology and of the theory of definition within λογικη! were disputed (see Hülser 1987-8, xxxiii-lxxxvi). 
13 Texts in Hülser 1987-8, 22-39 (add Elias  APr. 134.4-138.13); discussion in Lee 1984, 44-54; see also Barnes  et al. 1991, 41-8; Barnes 1993d. 
14 Sen.  Ep.  138.21-9  (on  which  see  Kidd  1978b)  shows  that  this  sort  of  issue  was  known  to Posidonius; but the debate itself probably presupposes the renascence of Aristotelianism at the end of the first century 
15
bc. 
E.g. Epict.  Diss. ii.25.1-3. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
68
i n t r o d u c t i o n
And  yet,  as  Chrysippus'  apologia  insinuates,  not  all  thinkers  were impressed by the subject's credentials. Thus Epicurus and his followers
'rejected'  dialectic;16 and  so  too  did  the  Cyrenaics17 and  the  Cynics.18
Some  have  suspected  that,  in  his  early  years,  Zeno  himself  dismissed logic.19 His pupil Aristo certainly did, o◊ering a series of similes to show that  dialectic  does  us  no  good  and  even  does  us  harm:  dialectical  arguments are like spiders' webs, dialectic is like mud on the pavement, studying dialectic is like eating crabs, young dialecticians are like puppies.20
Logic is useless - people who are skilled in it are no more likely to  act  well; and logic is pernicious - clever logicians will have no di√culty in acting badly with a good conscience. Each of these claims is plausible. 
Yet according to orthodox Stoicism, dialectic is not only an essential element of philosophy: it is actually an α0ρετη!, a virtue or excellence;21
and therefore the only dialecticians are Sages and gods.22 The virtue has a negative  and  a  positive  aspect.  Dialectic  ensures  that  you  will  not  be deceived by captious argumentation: so Chrysippus asserted,23 so Zeno had taught.24 Dialectic also ensures that you will guard the knowledge which you have acquired; for it will equip you with the capacity to conduct valid arguments and to present cogent proofs. 
Did  the  Stoics  themselves  exhibit  the  virtue  of  dialectic?  They  were notorious for their syllogizing.25 They were criticized for ignoring substance  and  fiddling  with  logical  form;  for  ignoring  the  useful  parts  of dialectic and elaborating empty theories; for ignoring scientific methodology and worrying over abstract proof.26
Our sources frequently present Stoic arguments in a formal dress which hugs the contours of Stoic hypothetical syllogistic;27 and the secondary evidence  is  confirmed  by  several  of  the  scanty  fragments  of  the  Stoics 16 D.L. x.31; Cic.  Fin. i.22; Sen.  Ep. 89.11; S.E.  M  vii.15; Hier.  Ruf. i.30. See e.g. Long 1971d, 114; Long and Sedley 1987, i.101. On Metrodorus see Spinelli 1986; Tepedino Guerra 1992. 
17 D.L. ii.92; Sen.  Ep. 89.12; S.E.  M  vii.11; cf. Them.  Or. xxxiv.5. 
18 D.L. vi.103. 
19 See the  mot  in Stob. ii.2.12; and note that Zeno rejected the ε0γκυ!κλιοι τε!χναι (D.L. vii.32), which may have included logic (Hülser 1987-8, lxxx-lxxxi, 444-5). 
20 Stob.  Ecl.  ii.2.14, 18, 22; 25.44 (and note Zeno's simile at  ii.2.12); all perhaps from Aristo's 0Οµοιω!µατα, on which see Ioppolo 1980a, 50-1. Logic no good: Stob. ii.1.24; D.L. vii.160 (see Ioppolo 1980a, 63-9); harmful: S.E.  M  vii.12; Sen.  Ep. 89.13. 
21 See esp. D.L. vii.46-7; also Cic.  Fin. iii.72; [Plu.]  Plac. 874e. Cf. Long 1978c, 107-8; Atherton 1993, 53-5. 
22 D.L. vii.83; Alex.  Top. 1.19: Long 1978c. Gods: Plu.  De E  387d. 
23  PHerc. 1020, col. ii, iii ( FDS  88) - if the text is Chrysippean. 
24 Plu.  Stoic. Rep. 1034e. 
25 E.g.  Quint.  Inst.  x.1.84;  xii.2.25;  Hipp.  Ref.  i.21.1;  Aug.  CD  viii.7.  For  Zeno's  snappy  style, βραχυλογι!α, see D.L. vii.18, 20; Cic.  ND  ii.20-2: Schofield 1983. Note that even the Roman Cato went in for crisp syllogisms: Cic.  Parad. 3 (cf. Sen.  Ep. 82.9). 
26 E.g. Cic.  Tusc. v.5.9; Gal.  PHP  v.225; Cic.  Top. 6. 
27 See e.g. Plu.  Stoic. Rep.  1034ef (Zeno); Nemes. 78-9 (Cleanthes); Cic.  Div. i.83-4 (Chrysippus, Diogenes, Antipater). 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   h i s t o r y   o f   h e l l e n i s t i c   l o g i c 69
themselves.  Here  is  one  example,  taken  from  Chrysippus'   Logical Investigations:
If there are passive predicates, then there are also passives of passives; and so  ad infinitum. But this is not so. Neither therefore is the first. If there are plural predicates, then there are also plurals of plurals; and so  ad infinitum. But this is not so. Neither therefore is the first. ( PHerc.  307, col. 
ii.17-26)
Two arguments in  modus tollens, which is the second Stoic 'indemonstrable',  each  of  which  is  given  quasi-schematic  form  or  presented  as  a λογο!τροπο. 
Most philosophers produce arguments, and some of their arguments are likely to exemplify  modus tollens: there is nothing noteworthy in the fact that Chrysippus argues in this way. The noteworthy fact is this: the Stoics used such arguments explicitly, self-consciously, deliberately; they were  concerned,  in  their  philosophical  writings  to  apply  the  argument forms  which  their  dialectical  studies  had  investigated  and  approved.28
The Stoics studied logic fervently and they used it sedulously. 
iii The history of Hellenistic logic
 1: Chrysippus
Chrysippus was the chief figure in Stoic logic:
So renowned was he in dialectical matters that most people thought that if  dialectic  existed  among  the  gods  it  could  not  be  anything  but Chrysippean dialectic. (D.L. vii.180)
A literary critic who had little time either for Stoicism or for logic admitted  that  'no  one  brought  greater  precision  to  the  dialectical  arts'  than Chrysippus.29 What exactly did Chrysippus do? 
We know little of Chrysippus'  modus operandi; for few logical fragments have survived. But the  Logical Investigations,30 rigorously presented and densely written, abrupt and compact in form, strong and substantial in matter,  invite  stylistic  comparison  with  Aristotle's   Analytics.  No  doubt there  were  also  less  forbidding  works;  but  when  the  thin  and  flaccid 28 Contrast Aristotle, on the surface of whose writings there is scarcely a trace of the categorical syllogism. 
29 D.H.  Comp.  31. On the pre-eminence of Chrysippus see Frede 1974a, 26-9, 31. 
30  Logika  Ze-te-mata,  PHerc.  307.  Text  in  Marrone  1997  (see  also  Hülser  1987-8,  812-31).  See Marrone 1982, 1984, 1992, 1993; Sedley 1984; Barnes 1986b. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
70
i n t r o d u c t i o n
reports in the secondary sources vex  or depress, recall that the original pages which they wanly mirror were firm and full. 
On the nature and extent of Chrysippus' logical interests we have more evidence;  for  Diogenes  Laertius,  observing  that  his  'books  have  a  very high reputation', determined 'to record the list of them arranged by subject'  (vii.180).  The  catalogue  is  only  partially  preserved.  It  was  divided into three parts: logic, ethics, physics. It began with logic; the ethical part starts at vii.199; and the text breaks o◊ in the middle of an ethical title. 
The three main parts of the list were themselves divided and subdivided, on  thematic  or  philosophical  principles.  The  list  surely  came  from Apollonius  of  Tyre,  who  'published  the  table  of  the  philosophers  of Zeno's school and of their books'.31
The logical section lists at least 130 works, amounting in all to over 30 0
books.32 Nonetheless, it does not tell us exactly how much Chrysippus wrote on logic: the final sentence of the logical section is crucially corrupt; the section on ethics contains several titles which suggest a logical content;33 and  other  sources  o◊er  a  few  supplementary  titles.34 However that  may  be,  it  is  plain  that  Chrysippus  wrote  at  vast  length  on  logic: almost half of his writings fell within the logical part of philosophy;35 and these writings must have been about twenty times as long as Aristotle's Organon. 
The  titles  themselves  give  an  idea  of  the  range  and  balance  of Chrysippus'  logical  interests.36 The  first  of  the  five   topoi  or  areas  into which the logical section of the catalogue is divided contains a single subordinate συ!νταξι or group, the titles in which were introductory. The second area is 'concerned with objects (πρα!γµατα)', that is to say, with the items which are signified by words and sentences: five groups include works on the di◊erent types of assertibles, both simple and complex, and on their parts. The third area, with three groups, is given to expressions or λε!ξει: the issues include the parts of speech, and amphiboly. The final area,  'concerned  with  arguments  and  modes',  is  the  largest:  ten  groups 31 Str. xvi.2.24 [757C]. Apollonius dates from the first century bc; the other Stoic book-catalogues may  also  be  his  (Zeno:  D.L.  vii.4,  Aristo:  vii.163,  Herillus:  vii.166,  Dionysius:  vii.167, Cleanthes: vii.174-5, Sphaerus: vii.178). See: Goulet 1989-94, i, 294; Dorandi 1990a, 2334-5; Hahm 1992. 
32 The MSS of D.L. vii.198 give the figure of 311. 
33 E.g. Περι' τη4  διαλεκτικη4, Περι' τω4ν  α0ντιλεγοµε!νων  τοι4  διαλεκτικοι4 (D.L. vii.202): Hülser 1987-8, 184-7, prints most of the first ethical  topos  among his dialectical fragments. 
34 Note esp. the Introduction to Syllogisms (S.E.  M  viii.224), and the three books on Syllogistic (Gal.  Lib. Prop. xix.47;  Inst. Log. xix.9), neither of which is readily identified with any title in D.L.'s list. 
35 In all he wrote 705 books: D.L. vii.180. 
36 But titles must be used with caution: see Nachmanson 1941. D.H.  Comp.  31-2 shows how misleading Chrysippean titles could be. See also Barnes 1996b. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   h i s t o r y   o f   h e l l e n i s t i c   l o g i c 71
subdivide its contents, which deal with two main areas - di◊erent types of argument  and  syllogism,  and  the  exposition  and  resolution  of  logical puzzles and  aporiai. 
Three  aspects  of  logic  appear  to  have  engaged  Chrysippus'  especial attention. First, he wrote twelve works in 23 books on the Liar paradox; seven works in 17 books on amphiboly; another nine works in another 26
books  on  other  conundrums.  In  all,  twenty-eight  works  or  66  books  -
more than a sixth of his logical  oeuvre - were given over to puzzles. The importance  of  puzzles  within  Stoic  logic  has  often  been  observed:  the Chrysippean  catalogue  measures  this  importance.  Secondly,  there  are some eighteen works in 35 books on the various forms of inference and of syllogism which the Stoics recognized and investigated. These works correspond, as it were, to Aristotle's  Prior Analytics: they will have presented, explained,  and  defended  the  theory  of  hypothetical  syllogistic  and  the system  of  the  'five  indemonstrables'  which  was  the  centrepiece  of Chrysippus' logical achievement. Thirdly, there are some twenty works in 46 books on the elements of arguments: on the various forms of complex assertible (five works in 12 books on conditionals); on simple assertibles; on predicables and terms. Thus Chrysippus devoted as much paper to the elements of arguments as to the arguments themselves: his work here has no real parallel in the Peripatetic tradition, and his reflections in this area (which is now called 'philosophical logic') were no less remarkable than the formal system of inference which he developed. 
 2: After Chrysippus
Chrysippus  was  pre-eminent,  but  he  was  not  authoritative:  there  were conflicts within the Stoa, some of them over logic. Thus Cicero informs us that  'two  of  the  leading  dialecticians,  Antipater  and  Archedemus,  both men  of  the  greatest  subtlety,37 disagree  on  many  issues'  -  and  Cicero plainly has logical disagreements in mind ( Acad. ii.143). We may suppose that  Stoic  logic  changed  and  developed,  at  least  in  minor  ways,  in  the course of its long career. There is nothing remarkable about this supposition (nor is it often remarked). 
Diogenes of Babylon professed himself a teacher of dialectic (Cic.  De Orat. ii.157), on which he wrote a handbook (D.L. vii.71).38 His  Handbook on Utterance  may have been a more ambitious work: it probably lies behind Diocles'  account  of  Stoic  'grammar'  in  D.L.  vii.55-8,  and  it  perhaps 37 Reading  spinossisimi (Hermann) for the transmitted  opiniossisimi. 
38 No doubt there were other logical writings: D.L.'s Life of Diogenes, which will have included a bibliography, is lost. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
72
i n t r o d u c t i o n
served as the model for the grammatical Handbook ascribed to Dionysius Thrax.39
Antipater  was  keen  on  sophisms,40 and  he  discussed  the  Master Argument 'not only in his  On Possibles  but also in a special work  On the Master Argument' (Epict.  Diss. ii. 19.9). He maintained 'against the opinion of everyone' (Apul.  Int. 20 0.17) that there are valid arguments which have  a  single  premiss.41 And  he  devised  a  'more  concise'  method  of analysing syllogisms by way of the themata (Gal.  PHP  v 224). 
Of  Archedemus,  who  disputed  with  Antipater,  we  know  a  work   On Utterance (D.L. vii.55) and an  On Possibles (Epict.  Diss. ii.19.9); he classified assertibles (D.L. vii.68); and he referred to predicables as sayables (Clem. 
 Strom. viii.9.26.4). There is similarly meagre information about Crinis: a Handbook  on  Dialectic (D.L.  vii.71),  in  which  he  divided  assertibles  into simple and compound (D.L. vii.68), explained the idea of a 'quasi-conditional' (D.L. vii.71), gave a formal definition of argument (D.L. vii.76), and analysed the concept of a partition or µερισµο! (D.L. vii.62). 
The only other major figure42 is Posidonius. It is clear that logic mattered to him;43 but of the few scraps of information which have come to us  only  one  excites.  In  his   Introduction  to  Logic  Galen  discusses  what  he calls  a  'third  kind'  of  syllogism,  alongside  Peripatetic  categoricals  and Stoic  hypotheticals:  they  are  'relational  syllogisms'.  At  the  end  of  his account Galen makes reference to Posidonius (xviii.8), and some scholars infer that Posidonius invented relational syllogistic. But the text is corrupt: Posidonius' contribution was probably modest.44
 3: Before Chrysippus
One or two of Chrysippus' book-titles insinuate a complex debate:  Against the Objections to the claim that the same argument can be organized in a syllogistic and a non-syllogistic schema (D.L. vii.194);  Against the objections to the work against cutting indefinites (D.L. vii.197). Two titles refer explicitly to Philo of  Megara  ( Against  Philo's  On  Signs,  Against  Philo's  On  Schemata:  D.L. 
vii.191, 19445); and others perhaps refer to other 'Megarics'. One title may 39 See Hagius 1979. 
40 Posidon.  apud  Sen.  Ep. 137.38-40; and the anecdote in Athen. 186c. 
41 Varro  Sat. fr 291; Apul.  Int. 20 0.15-19; Alex.  APr. 8.14-9.8; S.E.  PH  ii.167;  M  viii.443. 
42 Four minor names: Dionysius of Cyrene; Apollodorus of Seleucia; Diodotus, who taught Cicero logic (Cic.  Brut. 309); and Lucius Aelius Stilo Praeconinus, who was perhaps the first Latin logician (Gell. xvi.8.2; cf. i.18.1: Goetz 1894). 
43 See esp. Kidd 1978b. 
44 See Barnes 1993a. Kidd 1978b, 277-9, Kidd 1988, 692-6, and Hülser 1987-8, 1484-7, argue for a generous attribution. 
45 Philo's works are known only from these Chrysippean titles. For  On Signs, Περι' Σηµασιω4ν, see Ebert 1987, 108-9; 1991, 60-1.  On Schemata, Περι' Τρο!πων, must have discussed argument-schemata, as its position in the catalogue shows. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   h i s t o r y   o f   h e l l e n i s t i c   l o g i c 73
advert  to  Theophrastus:  the   Solution  according  to  the  Older  Philosophers (D.L. vii.197) discussed an earlier solution to the Liar paradox, and the only  earlier  philosopher  we  know  to  have  written  about  the  Liar  is Theophrastus (D.L. v.49). 
No title mentions any earlier Stoic. Yet Chrysippus' predecessors had studied logic. Zeno o◊ers an uncertain case. The catalogue of his writings (D.L. vii.4) contains a few items which fall under the general heading of logike-,  but  none  which  indisputably  concerns  itself  with  logic  (thus   On Signs  may  have  discussed  conditional  propositions46 -  but  its  primary subject was no doubt epistemological). The biographical evidence links Zeno with Diodorus and Philo and with Stilpo, and we are informed that he 'used to solve sophisms himself, and he urged his pupils to learn dialectic, since it had the power to do this' (Plu.  Stoic. Rep. 1034e). A further text puzzles rather than enlightens:
What are the theorems <of the philosophers>? . . . As Zeno says, they are concerned with knowledge of the elements of λο!γο - knowledge of what each of them is, of how they relate to one another . . . (Epict.  Diss. iv.8.12) Are the 'elements of λο!γο' the elements of reasoning, so that a Zenonian philosopher  must  grasp  the  first  principles  of  logic  and  their  interrela-tions? Or are they rather the 'parts of speech'?47 We may be sure that Zeno recognized the existence and the importance of logic, in some fashion or other; but there is no reason to believe that he made any serious contribution to the discipline.48
For Cleanthes there are several book-titles:  On Reason (three books),  On Properties,  On the Puzzles,  On Dialectic,  On Schemata,  On Predicables (all in D.L. vii.174-5); and  On Possibles (Epict.  Diss. ii.19.9). The last work discussed Diodorus' Master Argument, and perhaps reflected more generally on the logical modalities.  On the Puzzles  will have dealt with other logical conundrums;  and   On  Dialectic  was  perhaps  the  first  textbook  in  Stoic logic. More intriguing are two other titles.  On Predicables  must have discussed  'sayables'  or  λεκτα!.49 As for  On Schemata  or Περι' Τρο!πων, the title is ambiguous; but if the word τρο!πο is used in its technical sense, then Cleanthes discussed logical forms. 
Finally, Sphaerus: the catalogue in D.L. vii.178 contains seven or eight items of logical relevance. Two of them recall Cleanthine titles:  Handbook 46 Under the influence of Philo, according to e.g. Rist 1978a, 391; Ebert 1991, 65. 
47 Di◊erent interpretations in e.g. Graeser 1975, 11-13; Hagius 1979, 1-26; Long and Sedley 1987, ii.190. Cautious comments in Pearson 1891, 58-9; Hülser 1987-8, 82-3. 
48 So e.g. Frede 1974a, 14; Long 1978c, 105. The contrary view is urged by Rist 1978a; see also Hülser 1987-8, xlvi; Ebert 1991, 56. 
49 On Clem.  Strom. viii.9.26.4 see below, p. 210. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
74
i n t r o d u c t i o n
 on Dialectic (two books), and  On Predicables; one anticipates Chrysippus: On Ambiguities. 
From  this  brief  survey,  two  banal  conclusions:  first,  Chrysippus  had Stoic predecessors; secondly, his Stoic predecessors were far less prolific than he. 
What  of  the  outside  world?  There  is  no  need  to  mention  the Epicureans: rejecting dialectic, they did not attempt to advance it. (But Philodemus'  work   On  Signs  shows  that  later  Epicureans  could  interest themselves in such things as the truth-conditions of conditional propositions.) Nor will the Academy detain us; for there is no evidence that any Academician laboured at logic. The Lyceum is another matter. 
Of  course,  Aristotle's  successors  studied  logic  -  it  was  part  of  their inheritance; and we know of works by Theophrastus, Eudemus, Phanias, Strato.  But  for  Phanias  there  is  only  a  single  dubious  report;  Strato's interests  do  not  seem  to  have  gone  beyond  the  subject-matter  of Aristotle's   Topics;  and  Eudemus'  name  is  almost  always  conjoined  with that of Theophrastus, from whom, in logic, we can no more separate him than  we  can  Rosencrantz  from  Guildenstern.  Peripatetic  logic  in  the Hellenistic period is for us the logic of Theophrastus.50
His logical oeuvre filled some forty works in some eighty books.51
Almost half the titles are Aristotelian or semi-Aristotelian; so, doubtless, were the contents; and for the remainder, it is usually easy to find a plausible Aristotelian link.52 But Theophrastus was no lackey: Alexander frequently citeshim; Galen wrote a commentary in six bookson his On A√rmation ( Lib. 
 Prop. xix.47); Porphyry probably wrote a commentary on the same work (Boeth.  Int.2 217.26-8): there must have been some matter there. Moreover, there are two interestingly unAristotelian titles:  Topics Reduced, in two books(D.L. v.42), perhaps attempted to reduce to categorical syllogisms the variousargument-formswhich are collected in Aristotle's  Topics (a papyrus fragment illustrates what Theophrastus had in mind).53  On the Liar, in three books(D.L. v.49), was the first serious investigation of a celebrated paradox. In addition, and most significantly, Theophrastus is known to have worked in the area of hypothetical syllogistic. 
50 In general see Barnes 1985, 559-60. For Phainias see Wehrli 1969c (he wrote a  Cat.: Phlp.  Cat. 
7.20); for Strato see the catalogue in D.L. v.59. (Note also the titles for Heraclides, D.L. v.88, one  or  two  of  which  might  betray  a  logical  interest.)  For  Eudemus  see  Wehrli  1969b.  On Theophrastus'  logic  the  pioneering  work  of  Bochenski  1947  is  still  indispensable;  see  also Graeser 1973; Repici 1977; Barnes 1983b, 1985. Texts in Fortenbaugh 1992b. 
51 See D.L. v.42-50 (full details in Fortenbaugh 1992b). Counting cannot be accurate; but the total is surely greater than Bochenski 1947, 27-32, or Graeser 1973, 1-3, allow. 
52 See the remarks in Bochenski 1947, 52, 66, 110, 125-6; cf. Barnes 1983b, 305. 
53  PSI  1095 (⫽ Appendix 2 in Fortenbaugh 1992b): see Solmsen 1929; Bochenski 1947, 25, 119-20. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   h i s t o r y   o f   h e l l e n i s t i c   l o g i c 75
If  Chrysippus  read  Theophrastus'   On  the  Liar,  did  he  also  read  other works by Theophrastus and did he read Aristotle's  Organon? 
The  Organon  was known outside the Lyceum: Epicurus referred to the Analytics;54 Eubulides  criticized  Aristotle's  views  on  the  conversion  of categorical  propositions.55 And  in  his   Dialectic  Chrysippus  adverted  in general terms to Aristotle's logic (Plu.  Stoic. Rep.  1045f-1046a). The later commentators  on  Aristotle's  work  frequently  report  debates  between Stoics and Peripatetics and frequently state or imply that Aristotle influenced the Old Stoa. 
But  Chrysippus'   Dialectic  refers  to  Plato  and  Polemo,  Strato  and Socrates, alongside Aristotle, a constellation which hardly suggests that Chrysippus had his mind on technical logic or the  Analytics - nor does the text imply acquaintance with any of Aristotle's writings. And the numerous passages in the commentators either do not purport to give information about the Old Stoa56 or else indulge in patent fantasy.57 In short, the present state of our evidence gives no reason to believe that Chrysippus cared for, or was influenced by, the formal logic of the Lyceum. 
Finally,  what  of  the  'Megarics'?  Three  things  emerge  from  the  mists. 
First, the 'Megarics' were puzzle-mongers. Of Eubulides it is said that he put forward many arguments in dialectic - the Liar, the Deceiver, the Electra,  the  Veiled  Man,  the  Heaper,  the  Horns,  the  Bald  Man.  (D.L. 
ii.108)
And  the  evidence  associates  these  and  other  conundrums  with  all  the Megarics.  Secondly,  for  Diodorus  and  Philo  at  least,  puzzle-mongering was a mode of philosophizing: the Master Argument was rightly taken to have serious philosophical implications; and we know that both men said subtle  things  about  conditional  propositions  and  about  modality. 
Thirdly, there are a few hints of a more general interest in philosophical logic:  Philo  put  out  a  book   On  Schemata;58 the  obscure  Clinomachus wrote  on  'assertibles  and  predicables  and  the  like'  (D.L.  ii.112);59 and Menedemus ruminated on di◊erent types of proposition (D.L. ii.135). 
What did the Stoics make of this?  On the one hand, Chrysippus  dismissed some of it as  vieux jeu:
54 Phld.  Ad Cont. ,  PHerc.  10 05, fr.111.9-10: Angeli 1988a, 166-7, 233-40. 
55 See Alexander's essay  On Conversion  and Themistius'  Reply to Maximus on the Second and Third Figures: the two works survive only in Arabic (texts in Badawi 1971, translation of Themistius in Badawi 1987). 
56 E.g. Alex.  APr. 402.1-405.16, an essay on negation: see Lloyd 1978b; Barnes 1986a. 
57 E.g. Alex.  APr. 284.10-17, on the θε!µατα. 
58 Above, p. 72. 
59 A 'pioneering study of propositional logic', according to Sedley 1977, 76; but we know nothing about the work apart from the reference in D.L. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
76
i n t r o d u c t i o n
What a fate has befallen the arguments of Stilpo and Menedemus. They were greatly renowned for wisdom and now their arguments have come to be regarded as something shameful: some of them are pretty crude and others evidently sophistical. ( On the Use of Reason,  apud  Plu.  Stoic. Rep. 
1036f )60
So much for Stilpo, the most popular philosopher of his age. 
On the other hand, there is Zeno's pupillage with Diodorus Cronus; and there are the Chrysippean titles which refer to Philo and his friends. 
Moreover,  we  know  that  the  Old  Stoa  was  exercised  by  the  Master Argument, and wrote at length on it. It seems likely that the Stoics inherited from the Megarics their general interest in logical puzzles, and that Stoic work on the modalities was influenced by Megara. Beyond that the evidence will hardly take us.61
60 And from the Περι' βι!ων: some people 'are misled by the Megaric arguments and by other more numerous and more powerful arguments' (Plu.  Stoic. Rep. 1036e). 
61 For  a  sober  assessment  see  Frede  1974a,  22-3.  On  the  thesis  of  Ebert  1991,  that  the
'Dialecticians' invented some main elements of Stoic logic, see e.g. Barnes 1993d. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
5
Logic
j o n a t h a n   b a r n e s   ( i ) ,   s u s a n n e   b o b z i e n   ( i i   a n d i i i . 1 - 7 )   a n d   m a r i o   m i g n u c c i   ( i i i . 8 ) i The Peripatetics
Late antiquity learned two logics: categorical syllogistic and hypothetical syllogistic. Categorical syllogistic studies categorical arguments. An argument is categorical if all its components (its premisses and its conclusion) are  categorical  propositions.  A  proposition  is  categorical  if  it  'says  one thing of one thing' - or better, if it is simple in the sense of not containing two  or  more  propositions  as  components.  Hypothetical  syllogistic studies  hypothetical  arguments.  An  argument  is  hypothetical  if  at  least one  of  its  components  is  a  hypothetical  proposition.  A  proposition  is hypothetical if it contains at least two propositions as components. 
It  is  a  plausible  guess  that  this  terminology  was  developed  in  the Hellenistic Peripatos. The phrase 'hypothetical argument' is attested for Chrysippus (D.L. vii.196);1 Galen says that 'the ancients' spoke of hypothetical  propositions  ( Inst.  Log.  iii.3),  Alexander  that  they  spoke  of
'mixed' syllogisms ( APr. 262.31-2); and 'the ancients' in such contexts are usually  the  Peripatetics.2 Philoponus  says  that  Theophrastus  used  the phrase 'wholly hypothetical syllogism' ( APr. 302.9). 
Categorical syllogistic was thought of as essentially Peripatetic, hypothetical syllogistic as essentially Stoic;3 and although it was known that the Stoics and Peripatetics had disputed with one another in logic no less than in ethics and physics, it was often supposed that the two syllogistics were partners, each adequate in its own area. This irenic view is misleading. The Peripatetics thought that their categorical syllogistic embraced the whole of logic: any argument which submitted to formal treatment at all submitted to categorical syllogistic. And the Stoics held the same for their  hypothetical  syllogisms.  The  two  systems  regarded  themselves  as 1 But the sense of the phrase in Chrysippus is uncertain, and some connect it with the 'speech act'
of supposition (το' υ/ποθετικο!ν): below, p. 201. 
2 See Barnes 1990a, 71-3. 
3 But some Arabic texts appear to show that there was a Peripatetic form of hypothetical syllogistic: Maróth 1989. 
[77]
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
78
l o g i c
rivals; and behind the texts there is a genuine and philosophical rivalry, between 'term' logic which supposes that relations among terms are the fundamental logical relations and 'sentence' logic which assumes that it is sentences on which logic must ground itself.4
Peripatetic logic in the Hellenistic period is the logic of Theophrastus. 
His work on categorical syllogistic is a pendant to the past: he introduced some new terminology;5 he supplemented some of Aristotle's proofs; he tidied up Aristotle's messy remarks about the supplementary moods in the first  figure;6 and  above  all  he  proposed  major  alterations  to  Aristotle's modal syllogistic. The alterations turned on his application to modal propositions of the ' peiorem' rule:7 'Eudemus and Theophrastus say that . . . in all combinations the conclusion follows the inferior and weaker of the premisses' (Alex.  APr. 124.8-13). The possible is 'weaker' than the actual, the actual than the necessary: hence in a mixed modal syllogism the modality of the conclusion must be at least as 'weak' as the modality of the 'weaker'
of the two premisses. Theophrastus' adoption of the rule, together with other pertinent innovations, enabled him to purge Aristotle's modal syllogistic of some of its confusions and contradictions.8
Several  texts  prove  that  Theophrastus  discussed  hypothetical  syllogisms, thereby keeping, vicariously, a promise which his master had made (Arist.  APr. 50a39-b2). The extent and significance of his discussion are controversial: it has been held, at one extreme, that he anticipated the central parts of Stoic logic, and, at the other, that his work did not properly bear  upon  hypothetical  syllogistic  at  all;9 and  the  ancient  texts  do  not speak with one voice.10
He certainly said something about hypothetical propositions. 
In hypotheticals in which the antecedent is not only true but also evident and non-controversial, they use the connective 'since' instead of 'if ', the quasi-conditional  instead  of  the  conditional  (hence  the  moderns  call 4 On this see Barnes 1983b, 279-83. 
5 E.g. he called propositions such as 'Some man is just' 'indeterminate', by contrast with propositions such as 'Socrates is just', which he called 'determinate'. Ammon.  Int. 90.12-20 uses the word α0ο!ριστο - compare the Stoic terminology at D.L. vii.70. 
6 Alex.  APr. 69.26-70.21; see Barnes  et al. 1991, 136 n. 157. 
7 So called from the scholastic tag:  peiorem semper sequitur conclusio partem. Texts in Fortenbaugh 1992b,  T105-7;  see  Barnes   et  al.  1991,  113  n.  58.  On  Theophrastus'  modal  logic  see  esp. 
Bochenski 1947, 73-102. 
8 But  Theophrastus'  system,  insofar  as  we  can  reconstruct  it,  has  internal  incoherences  of  its own: Bochenski 1947, 10 0-1. 
9 E.g. on the one hand Prantl 1855, i.379, on the other Ebert 1991, 15-19. 
10 Theophrastus 'mentioned' hypothetical syllogisms (Alex.  APr. 326, 21-2); he discussed the 'elements' of the subject (Boeth.  Hyp. Syll. i.1.3); he wrote 'lengthy treatises' on the matter (Phlp. 
 APr. 242.18-21). 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   p e r i p a t e t i c s
79
such propositions quasi-conditional). Theophrastus, in the first book of his   Prior  Analytics,  explains  the  reason  for  this  usage.  (Simp.  Cael. 
552.31-553.4)
The context and the point of Theophrastus' remarks are lost; but it is clear that, in a logical text, he displayed an interest in the di◊erences between two propositional connectives. 
At  Inst. Log. iii.3-5, Galen reports that 'the ancients' called conditional propositions 'hypothetical by connection (κατα' συνε!χειαν)' and disjunctive propositions 'hypothetical by division (κατα' διαι!ρεσιν)' or simply
'divisive'. The ancients are contrasted with 'the moderns', to whom the standard  Stoic  nomenclature  is  ascribed.  In  such  contrasts  the  ancients are often the old Peripatetics: if that is Galen's contrast here, then (since the  terminology  is  not  Aristotelian)  we  have  a  trace  of  Theophrastan usage,11 and Theophrastus distinguished two sorts of compound proposition. 
Perhaps he also held that there were  only  two sorts of logically interesting  compound  proposition.  In  the  later  Peripatetic  tradition  we  frequently  find  the  following  line  of  argument:12 'A  compound  sentence either connects its components, in which case it is conditional, or else it separates them, in which case it is disjunctive. Hence there are only two sorts of logical compound.' This argument, with all its horrid confusions, seems to go back to Eudemus (Boeth.  Hyp. Syll. i.3.3); and it was perhaps endorsed by Theophrastus. 
Other texts set Theophrastus' interest in compound propositions in a broader logical context. One such text concerns 'wholly hypothetical syllogisms'.13 Alexander a√rms that
wholly hypothetical syllogisms, too, can be reduced to the three categorical  figures,  as  Theophrastus  has  proved  in  the  first  book  of  his   Prior Analytics (Alex.  APr. 326.20-2)
and  he  proceeds  to  explain  how  the  reduction  is  to  be  done (326.22-328.7). Alexander's discussion is based on Theophrastus; but he does  not  simply  paraphrase  Theophrastus'  work,14 and  we  know  that other logicians had worked on the topic.15 How much can we ascribe to Theophrastus himself ? 
11 So Bochenski 1947, 108-9, a conclusion widely accepted. 
12 So e.g. Alcin.  Didasc. 158; Gal.  Inst. Log. iii.1; Alex.  APr. 11.20; Boeth.  Hyp. Syll. i.i1.5, 3.2. See Sullivan 1967, 24-30; Barnes 1983b, 284 n. 2; 1985, 567. 
13 Detailed discussion in Barnes 1983b. 
14 He explicitly notes one point of disagreement: 328.2-5. 
15 See Alcin.  Didasc.159: Barnes 1983b, 297-8. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
80
l o g i c
Two  points  are  certain.  First,  Theophrastus  developed  a  reasonably detailed  theory  of wholly hypothetical syllogisms. Secondly, he denied that they constituted an independent body of logical science - rather, they are in  some  sense  reducible  to  categorical  syllogisms.  One  point  of  uncertainty concerns the very subject matter of the theory. Alexander's illustrative examples are all arguments with  two  premisses, each premiss (and the conclusion)  being  a  conditional  proposition  of  the  form  'If   p,  then   q', where ' p' and ' q' may be a√rmative or negative but are not themselves hypothetical  propositions.  Alexander  says  that  these  are  'simple'  arguments, and he adverts to other, 'compound' arguments; but he does not say  what  a  compound  argument  would  look  like,  nor  does  he  indicate whether Theophrastus had made this distinction. 
But this is not the only element of uncertainty. Alexander says that an argument of the following sort is wholly hypothetical:
If A, then B. 
If B, then C. 
Therefore if A, then C. 
(Here the conclusion too is hypothetical.) E.g.:
If he is a man, he is an animal. 
If he is an animal, he is a substance. 
Therefore if he is a man, he is a substance. ( APr. 326.22-5) Some scholars construe the letters in Alexander's schema as term-letters (so  that  the  schematic  sentences  are  elliptical),  thus  supposing  that  the conditional sentences of wholly hypothetical arguments must all have the specific form 'If x is F, then x is G'. This construe, which greatly limits the scope  of  wholly  hypothetical  syllogistic,  is  supported  by  two  facts: first,  Philoponus  and  Boethius  clearly  use  term-letters  rather  than  sentence-letters  in   their  formulations  of  wholly  hypothetical  syllogisms;16
and secondly, a reduction to categorical syllogisms then becomes much easier to imagine (indeed, Alexander's first illustration will appear to be little more than a terminological variant on  Barbara, for which see note 132). On the other side, the straightforward reading of Alexander's schemata takes the letters as sentence-letters, and Alexander never hints at any restriction  on  the  sort  of  conditionals  with  which  wholly  hypothetical syllogistic may operate. The problem is of some importance and our evidence does not allow a definitive solution. 
However that may be, it is plausible to suppose, on the evidence sup-16 See  e.g.  Phlp.  APr.  302.22;  Boeth.  Hyp.  Syll.  i.9.2-3.  On  the  issue  see  Barnes  1983b,  290-5: contra, Ebert 1991, 17 n.16. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   p e r i p a t e t i c s
81
plied by Alexander, that Theophrastus attempted to survey the possible kinds  of  simple  wholly  hypothetical  syllogisms;  that  he  arranged  them into three figures according to the structure of their premisses; that he proved that second and third figure syllogisms can be derived from first figure syllogisms;17 and that he remarked upon an 'analogy' between conditional and categorical propositions:
being  a  consequent  or  apodosis  is  analogous  to  being  predicated,  and being antecedent to being a subject - for in a sense it  is  a subject for what is inferred from it. (Alex.  APr. 326.31-2)
According to Alexander, this analogy formed the basis of Theophrastus'
reduction; but how the reduction proceeded Alexander does not say - nor indeed  is  it  clear  in  what  sense  Theophrastus  intended  the  word
'reduce'.18
The attempted reduction shows that Theophrastus was still working within  an  Aristotelian  framework;  and  his  general  approach  to  wholly hypothetical syllogisms was evidently modelled on Aristotle's way with categoricals. Nonetheless, the discussion of these arguments goes beyond anything in the  Organon. 
On Aristotle's unkept promise to say how many kinds of hypothetical syllogism there are ( APr. 50a39-b2), Alexander comments thus: He postpones them, as though intending to discuss them more carefully; but no book of his on the subject is in circulation. (Theophrastus mentions them in his own  Analytics; and so do Eudemus and certain others of Aristotle's associates.) He means hypothetical arguments (A1) by way of a  continuous  proposition  (also  called  a  conditional)  and  an  additional assumption, and those (A2) by way of a divisive or disjunctive proposition. (And also (A3) those by way of a negative conjunction, if they are really di◊erent from the others.) In addition to these, there are (B4) the arguments from proportion and (B5) those which they call qualitative (those deriving from the more and the less and the equally) and (B6) any other kinds of argument based on a hypothesis which there may be (they have been discussed elsewhere). ( APr. 390.1-9)
How did Alexander know which types of hypothetical syllogism Aristotle had  intended  to  discuss?  Perhaps  he  hunted  for  hints  elsewhere  in Aristotle's  work  -  and  in  fact  most  of  the  items  which  he  lists  can  be found, in one form or another, in the  Topics. But there is a more plausible 17 Alex.  APr. 327.33-4: Alexander does not illustrate; but see Boeth.  Hyp. Syll. iii.1-6, which carries out the analyses in tedious detail. 
18 On the Peripatetic conception of reduction see Barnes 1983b, 286 n. 3. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
82
l o g i c
explanation.  Alexander  reports  that  Theophrastus  had  kept  Aristotle's promise for him: it is tempting to infer that Alexander's guess about what Aristotle  had  intended  to  do  was  based  on  his  knowledge  of  what Theophrastus had in fact done. Hence Alexander's list of hypothetical syllogisms is a list of the types of argument which Theophrastus discussed.19
Wholly hypothetical syllogisms are not explicitly named; but they are no doubt alluded to in (B6), where Alexander must be referring to  APr. 
325.31-328.7.  Item  (B5)  or  'qualitative'  arguments  -  the  phrase  is Aristotle's:  APr. 45b17 - are explained elsewhere as arguments in which since items of such-and-such a sort are so-and-so, then items which are similarly (or more, or less) such-and-such share the same quality. ( APr. 
324.19-22)
For example: health is more likely to produce happiness than is wealth; but health does not: therefore wealth does not. Arguments from proportion, (B4), have the general form 'As A is to B, so C is to D; but A stands in the relation R to B: therefore C stands in R to D'. 
Items (A1) and (A2) are more exciting. Alexander uses the terminology which Galen ascribes to 'the ancients' in order to characterize arguments of the general form 'If A, then B; but C: therefore D' and 'Either A or B; but C: therefore D'. Two instances of (A1):
(1) If  p, then  q
 p
Therefore  q
(2) If  p, then  q
not- q
Therefore not- p
Two instances of (A2):
(3) Either  p  or  q
 p
Therefore not- q
(4) Either  p  or  q
not- q
Therefore  p
Item (A3) - which has only a tentative status in the list20 - indicates the general form 'Not both A and B; but C: therefore D'. For instance: (5) Not both  p  and  q
 p
Therefore not- q
19 So Prantl 1855, i.379; Barnes 1985, 563-4. 20 For the text see Barnes 1985, 566 n. 16. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   ' m e g a r i c s '
83
If  we  allow  that  Theophrastus  said   something  about  such  arguments, two  questions  arise.  First,  what  exactly  did  he  say  about  them?  To  this question our texts o◊er no response; but if he discussed them in detail, and if his discussion (like his account of wholly hypothetical syllogisms) was  modelled  on  Aristotle's  categorical  syllogistic,  then  we  can  make  a romantic guess.21
Secondly, did Theophrastus thereby invent Chrysippean logic?22 After all, the argument-forms (1)-(5) are identical with, or at least intimately related  to,  the  five  'indemonstrables'  on  which  Chrysippean  logic wasgrounded,23 and  Theophrastus  flirted  with  (1)-(5)  long  before Chrysippus  courted  his  indemonstrables.  Nevertheless,  it  is  plain  that even if Theophrastus discussed (1)-(5), he did not anticipate Chrysippus'
achievement. There are several minor reasons for this answer. (Thus it is not  clear  that  Alexander  wishes  to  ascribe  (A3)  to  Theophrastus  at  all.) And there is a major reason: even if Theophrastus had explicitly recognized all of (1)-(5), his Aristotelian approach to the study and organization  of  argument-forms  would  have  given  his  discussion  of  mixed hypothetical syllogisms an utterly unStoical aspect.24
ii The 'Megarics'
Apart from the various logical puzzles and sophisms, there are only two topics on which we can be sure of a positive contribution to logic25 by the
'Megarics'.26 These are the positions of Diodorus Cronus and of Philo on the  theory  of  conditionals  and  on  modal  logic.  Why  the  discussion  of these topics came down to us, we can only divine. Certainly both involve notorious di√culties. Again, they were topics which were extensively and intensely  discussed  in  Hellenistic  logic;  so  much  so  that  the  disputes became part of the general knowledge of the intelligentsia of the time (e.g. 
S.E.  M  i.309-10).  In  addition,  the  theory  of  modalities  was  believed  to have far-reaching results for other areas of philosophy. 
The  passages  on  the  conditional  and  on  modal  logic,  together  with some  scattered  testimonies,  allow  one  to  draw  some  conclusions  about
'Megaric' logic in general: The treatment of conditionals and modalities implies that - like most Hellenistic philosophers - the 'Megarics' worked 21 See Barnes 1985, 571-3. 
22 So Prantl 1855, i.379; and see also Bochenski 1947, 9; Graeser 1975, 42, 46.  Contra  e.g. Sandbach 1985, 18. 
23 See below, pp. 127-31. 
24 See Barnes 1985, 574-6. 
25 Logic in the narrow sense, i.e. not including contributions to the study of ambiguity. 
26 On  the  extent  to  which  it  is  legitimate  to  speak  of  a  'Megaric'  (or  Dialectical),  'school',  see above, p. 47 n. 105. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
84
l o g i c
with a concept of proposition that di◊ers from ours in that it allows truth-values  to  change  over  time.  We  may  also  conjecture  that  Philo  and Diodorus distinguished between simple propositions, like 'It is day', and complex  or  non-simple  propositions  which  are  composed  from  simple ones,  for  instance  disjunctions  and  conditionals.  But  although  we  can confidently assume that the truth-conditions of non-simple propositions were examined, we know the 'Megaric' views only in the case of the conditional. 
*
In the debate about the conditional (συνηµµε!νον) the point of disagreement concerned the question of what the right truth-conditions of a conditional were (Cic.  Acad. ii.143). This controversy was played out against the background of a common acceptance of what counts as a conditional, and what its function is. Conditionals were understood to be non-simple propositions containing one proposition as antecedent and one as consequent.  The  antecedent  has  the  particle  'if '  prefixed  to  it;  the  standard form  is  'If   p,  q'.  A  conditional  serves  to  manifest  the  relation  of  consequence  (α0κολουθι!α):  it  announces  that  its  consequent  follows  from (α0κολουθει4ν) its antecedent (S.E.  M  viii.110-12).27
Philo's  criterion  for  the  truth  of  a  conditional  is  truth-functional.  It was later generally accepted as a minimal condition for the truth of a conditional.  Philo  maintained  that  a  conditional  is  false  precisely  when  its antecedent is true and its consequent false, and true in the three remaining cases: whenever the antecedent is false, and when both antecedent and consequent are true (S.E.  M  viii.113-17;  PH  ii.110). Thus this concept of a conditional comes very close to that of modern material implication. (It is not quite the same, since Hellenistic truth is relativized to times.) Philo's suggestion is remarkable in that it deviates noticeably from the common understanding of conditional sentences and requires abstraction on the basis of the concept of truth-functionality. 
Remarkable as it is, Philo's view has the following two drawbacks: first, as in the case of material implication, for the truth of the conditional no connection at all between antecedent and consequent is required. Thus, for example, during the day 'If virtue benefits, it is day' is Philonian true. 
This introduces a variant of the so-called 'paradoxes of material implication'.  Sextus'  presentation  shows  that  the  ancients  were  aware  of  this 27 The term α0κολουθι!α was also commonly used for the relation between premisses and conclusion in a valid argument. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   ' m e g a r i c s '
85
problem. Secondly, due to the time-dependency of Hellenistic propositions, Philo's criterion implies that conditionals can change their truth-value over time: for instance, 'If it is day, it is night' is true at night, but false in the daytime. This is counter-intuitive as regards the ordinary use of if-sentences. Moreover, if the concept of a conditional is meant to provide for logical consequence between premisses and conclusion, this leads to the result that arguments could in principle change from being valid to being invalid and vice versa. 
For Diodorus, a conditional proposition is true if it neither was nor is possible  that  its  antecedent  is  true  and  its  consequent  false  (S.E.  M
viii.115-17;  PH  ii.110-11). The reference to time in this account ('was . . . is possible') suggests that the possibility of a truth-value change in Philo's truth-condition was one of the things to be improved on. 
We do not know whether Diodorus had his own modal notions in mind when talking about possibility in his criterion, or just some pre-technical, general concept of possibility,28 or whether he perhaps even intended to cover both.29 If one assumes that he had his own modal notions in mind when giving this account, the truth-criterion for the conditional stands in the following relation to Philo's: a conditional is Diodorean true now precisely if it is Philonian true at all times. Diodorus has, as it were, quantified the Philonian criterion over time. The conditional 'If I walk, I move'
is now true because at no time is the antecedent true and the consequent false. Thus for Diodorus, a conditional cannot change its truth-value. If it is true (false) at one time, it is true (false) at all times. If on the other hand one presumes that Diodorus had some unspecified general concept of possibility in mind when producing his account, the criterion would be correspondingly  less  specific.  However,  it  would  presumably  still  be  a minimal requirement that it is never the case that the antecedent is true and the consequent false. 
Diodorus' criterion bears some resemblance to the modern concept of strict implication. In particular, it shares some of its disadvantages in that we  encounter  a  parallel  to  the  'paradoxes  of  strict  implication'.  As  in Philo's  case,  no  connection  is  required  between  antecedent  and  consequent.  This  time,  whenever  either  the  antecedent  is  impossible  or  the consequent necessary, the conditional will be true, regardless of whether there  is  any  relevant  connection  between  the  two  constituent  propositions. So for instance 'If the earth flies, Axiothea philosophizes' would be 28 For Diodorus' modal concepts see below. The verb used here for being possible, ε0νδε!χεσθαι
di◊ers from the word used for possibility in Diodorus' modal theory, which is δυνατο!ν. 
29 The latter is argued for in Denyer 1981b, 39-41; cf. also Sedley 1977, 101-2. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
86
l o g i c
Diodorean  true,  since  the  antecedent  was  considered  impossible  (D.L. 
vii.75).  Again,  Sextus'  example  for  the  Diodorean  criterion  (S.E.  PH
ii.111) suggests that there was some awareness of these paradoxes. 
*
Modal logic is the second topic where we have evidence about the positions of Philo and Diodorus and their influence on the Stoics.30 Although the modalities were discussed under the heading of 'On things possible', the Hellenistic modal systems were each built on a set of four modalities: possibility, impossibility, necessity and non-necessity. The matter of dispute was which system was the right one, that is, which one adequately described the modalities inherent in the world. In connection with this, an extra-logical concern provided additional fuel to the debate: the belief that if propositions about future events that will not happen turn out to be  impossible,  the  freedom  and  choices  of  individuals  would  be  curtailed.31
For the 'Megarics' the modalities were primarily properties of propositions or of states of a◊airs. There is no discussion of modal propositions, i.e. of propositions of the type 'It is possible/possibly true that it is day'. 
Philo's concept of possibility has survived in four sources32 but only in Boethius are the accounts of all four modal notions reported:
Possible is that which is capable of being true by the proposition's own nature . . . necessary is that which is true, and which, as far as it is in itself, is not capable of being wrong. Non-necessary is that which as far as it is in itself, is capable of being false, and impossible is that which by its own nature is not capable of being true. (Boeth.  Int. 2.ii.234) So according to Boethius the basic feature of Philonian modalities is some intrinsic  capability  of  the  propositions  to  be  or  not  to  be  true  or  false. 
That this feature is intrinsic is plain from the phrases 'own nature' and 'in itself '. In Simplicius both phrases are used to characterize Philonian possibility (Simp.  Cat.  195); hence both phrases may have originally applied to all four accounts. 
In  all  sources  the  concept  of  possibility  stands  out,  and  so  it  seems likely that Philo built his set of modal notions on a concept of internal 30 For  a  detailed  discussion  of  Philo's  and  Diodorus'  modal  theory  cf.  Kneale-Kneale  1962, 117-28; Bobzien 1993. 
31 This  is  a  variation  on  the  problem  of  logical  determinism  which  is  known  from  Arist.  Int.  ix. 
Several of the 'Megaric' sophisms touch upon this issue - so the Mower Argument (for which see Seel 1993), the Lazy Argument (for which see Bobzien 1998, 180-233), and the Master Argument. 
32 Alex.  APr. 184; Phlp.  APr. 169; Simp.  Cat. 195-6; Boeth.  Int. 2.ii.234-5. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   ' m e g a r i c s '
87
consistency, as given in his account of possibility. Philo's modal concepts are thus defined by resort to another, perhaps more basic, modal concept. 
As to the kind of consistency Philo had in mind, we learn nothing more. 
Notwithstanding this, there can be little doubt that Philo's modal concepts  satisfy  a  number  of  basic  requirements  which  normal  systems  of modern modal logic tend to satisfy as well. These requirements are: (i)  Every  necessary  proposition  is  true  and  every  true  proposition  possible;  every  impossible  proposition  is  false  and  every  false  proposition non-necessary. 
According to Philo's accounts, a proposition that is not capable of falsehood must be true; one that is true must be capable of being true, etc. 
(ii) The accounts of possibility and impossibility and those of necessity and non-necessity are contradictory to each other. 
This can be directly read o◊ the definitions. 
(iii) Necessity and possibility are interdefinable in the sense that a proposition is necessary precisely if its contradictory is not possible. 
This holds for Philo's accounts, if one neglects the di◊erence in the two phrases 'in itself ' and 'by its nature' or assumes that originally both were part of all the definitions. Then a proposition is not capable of being false precisely if its contradictory is not capable of being true, etc. 
(iv) Every proposition is either necessary or impossible or both possible and non-necessary, that is, contingent. 
In Philo's system this amounts to the fact that every proposition is either incapable of falsehood, or incapable of truth, or capable of both. The fact that Philo's modal accounts - and those of Diodorus and the Stoics, as will be seen - satisfy these four requirements is of course no proof that the ancients consciously reflected upon all of them, regarding them as principles with which they had to comply. 
We  know  a  little  more  about  Diodorus'  modal  theory.33 Still,  again only Boethius reports all four definitions of Diodorus' modal notions: Possible is that which either is or will be <true>; impossible that which is false and will not be true; necessary that which is true and will not be false;  non-necessary  that  which  either  is  false  already  or  will  be  false. 
(Boeth.  Int. 2.ii.234-5)
33 Our sources are Epict.  Diss. ii.19; Cic.  Fat. 12, 13, 17;  Fam. ix, 4; Plu.  Stoic. Rep.  1055e-f; Alex. 
 APr. 183-4; Phlp.  APr. 169; Simp.  Cat. 195; Boeth.  Int. 2.ii.234, 412. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
88
l o g i c
Two of these modal accounts are disjunctions, the other two are conjunctions. Provided that Diodorus accepted the principle of bivalence, these definitions, too, satisfy the modal requirements (i) to (iv). 
Apart from that, Diodorus' modalities are of a very di◊erent kind from Philo's. There is no modal expression hidden anywhere in his accounts. 
Instead, which Diodorean modality a proposition has depends wholly on the range of truth-values it has at present and in the future. For instance, if a proposition is always true from now on, it is now both necessary and possible; if it is, from now on, sometimes true but not always, it is possible, but not necessary. Hence it is not the case that for Diodorus every proposition is either necessary (and possible) or impossible (and non-necessary). There are propositions that are contingent in the sense of being both possible and non-necessary, namely all those which will change their truth-value  at  some  future  time.  The  proposition  'It  is  day'  is  such  a case.34
We do not know what exactly motivated Diodorus to introduce these modal  notions.35 But  we  know  that  Hellenistic  philosophers  generally regarded Diodorus' modal notions as jeopardizing freedom - since they rule out the possibiliy that something that never happens, or is never true, is nonetheless possible. For example, if 'Dio goes to Corinth' is and will always be false then 'Dio goes to Corinth' is impossible, and then, or so the thought went, it is impossible for Dio to go to Corinth.36
*
Diodorus' definition of that which is possible can be split into two distinct claims: first that everything that either is or will be true is possible, and second, that everything that is possible either is or will be true. The first statement was not questioned by Hellenistic philosophers. It is the second claim that was and is considered counterintuitive and in need of justification; it is this claim which Diodorus attempted to back up with his Master argument (Alex.  APr. 183.34-184.6; Epict.  Diss. ii.19.1). 
Despite being widely known in antiquity, the argument has not come down to us; all we have is a brief passage in Epictetus:
34 The dependence of the Diodorean modal concepts on truth-values implies that a proposition can change its modality, from possible to impossible and from non-necessary to necessary. For instance, 'Artemisia is five years old' is now possible, because it is now true. But it will at some future time be impossible, namely once Artemisia has reached the age of six, since from then on it will never be true again. 
35 According to Aristotle, some 'Megarics' maintained that the possibility of an event implies its actuality (Arist.  Metaph. Θ.3.1046b29-32). Perhaps Diodorus endeavoured to keep the spirit of this concept of possibility. 
36 For a comparison between Philo's, Diodorus' and Chrysippus' modalities, see below, pp. 120-1. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   ' m e g a r i c s '
89
The Master argument seems to have been developed from the following starting points: There is a general conflict between the following three
<statements>: (i) every past true <proposition> is necessary; and (ii) the impossible does not follow from the possible; and (iii) something is possible which neither is true nor will be true. Being aware of this conflict, Diodorus used the plausibility of the first two <statements> in order to show that (iv) nothing is possible that neither is nor will be true. (Epict. 
 Diss. ii.19.1)37
This is usually understood as implying that the argument was grounded on statements (i) and (ii), and had (iv), which is the contradictory of (iii), as conclusion. And this is about as far as the passages lead us. But how did the argument run?38 A viable reconstruction has to satisfy a number of more or less trivial conditions. It must make use of the principles (i) and (ii)  handed  down  in  Epictetus;  in  addition  to  these,  it  must  make  use solely of premisses plausible to the Stoics; and it must appear valid. For we know that di◊erent Stoic philosophers attempted to refute one or other of the principles in Epictetus, but we do not hear of anyone questioning the truth of any other premiss or the validity of the argument. Moreover, the  reconstruction  must  employ  only  the  logical  means  and  concepts available  in  antiquity;  in  particular  the  notions  of  proposition,  consequence, and modalities used must fit in with the logic of the time, and it must be possible to formulate the argument in ordinary language. Finally, the  restored  argument  must  not  have  a  complexity  which  precludes  its presentation  at  a  social  gathering,  since  people  enjoyed  discussing  the Master  argument  over  dinner  (e.g.  Plu.  Quaest.  Conv.  615a;  Epict.  Diss. 
ii.19.8). 
In line with Diodorus' modal definition, the general conclusion of the argument (iv) may be reformulated as
(iv´) If a proposition neither is nor will be true it is impossible. 
The first principle is not so readily comprehensible. It runs
(i) Every past true <proposition> is necessary. 
The Greek term used for 'past', παρεληλυθο!, is a standard Stoic expression for past propositions, meaning not that the proposition itself subsisted  in  the  past,  but  that  it  is  in  some  sense  about  the  past.39 The principle occurs also in Cicero, together with some explication: 37 There is some additional information in 19.2-9. 
38 Cf. Giannantoni 1981c and R. Müller 1985, 232-4 for a historical overview and extensive bibliographies. 
39 Cf. below, pp. 95-6. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
90
l o g i c
All true <propositions> of the past are necessary . . . since they are unalterable, i.e. since past <propositions> cannot change from true to false. 
(Cic.  Fat. 14)
From this passage we may infer that it was a peculiarity of all past true propositions that they cannot change their truth-value to falsehood; and that  because  of  this  they  are  necessary.  This  suggests  that  the  past  true propositions at issue do not include all propositions in the past tense, but that they were those propositions which correspond to some past state or event. For instance, the true past proposition 'I went to Athens' corresponds to the event of my having gone to Athens. It can never become false. Assume that I went to Athens last month. Then the proposition 'I went to Athens' is not only true now, it will also be true tomorrow, the day after, and in fact always from now on. The truth of the proposition is based on the fact that there has been a case of my going to Athens, and -
whatever happens from now on - this cannot unhappen. (One may bring out this feature more clearly by reformulating the proposition as 'It has been the case that I went to Athens'.) On the other hand the proposition
'You have not been to Athens' does not correspond to a past state or event. 
Suppose that up to now you never went to Athens. Then the proposition is  true  now.  Now  suppose  in  addition  that  you  will  go  to  Athens  next week. After you have gone there, the proposition 'You have not been to Athens' is no longer true. Hence it is not necessary. We may hence reformulate principle (i) as
(i´) Every true proposition that corresponds to a past state or event is necessary. 
The second principle that functions as a premiss in the argument is (ii) The impossible does not follow from the possible, 
The  principle  was  accepted  by  Aristotle  and  by  almost  all  logicians Hellenistic and modern alike.40 At least by the Stoics it was understood as
(ii´) An impossible proposition does not follow from a possible one. 
This amounts to the statement that if a proposition is impossible and follows from some other proposition, then this other proposition is impossible, too. 
The  following  reconstruction  assumes  that  the  argument  rests  on  a 40 The exception is Chrysippus, see below, pp. 116-17. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   ' m e g a r i c s '
91
couple of further principles, which might have been generally understood as valid and thus not worth mentioning, or else which might have been generally accepted by the Stoics, and because of this omitted by Epictetus. 
The first additional principle is
(v) If something is the case now, then it has always been the case that it will be the case. 
For instance, if I am in Athens now, then it has always in the past been the case that I would be in Athens (at some time). This principle gains historical plausibility from the fact that we find a version of it in Aristotle, and that another version of it was accepted by the Stoics.41
The second supplementary principle is
(vi) If something neither is nor will be true, then it has been the case (at some time) that it will never be the case. 
This theorem is based on the idea that if some proposition presently neither is nor will be true, and you step back in time, as it were, then the formerly present 'not being true' turns into a future 'not going to be true', so that from the point of view of the past, the proposition will never be true, and the corresponding state of a◊airs will never obtain. This is assumed to hold at least for the past moment that immediately precedes the present. 
This principle has some plausibility to it. However there is no unambiguous evidence that it was discussed in antiquity.42
Fallacies and sophisms were generally presented by means of an example which stands in for the general case, and it is a plausible guess that this was so for the Master argument as well. A suitable example can be found in  Alexander  -  the  proposition  'I  am  in  Corinth.'  The  argument  then starts with the assumption that
(1) the proposition 'I am in Corinth' neither is nor will ever be true. 
and the conclusion to be demonstrated is that
(C) the proposition 'I am in Corinth' is impossible. 
By principle (vi) it follows from (1) that
(2) it has been the case (at some time) that I will never be in Corinth. 
Using principle (i), that all past truths are necessary, it follows from (2) that
41 See Arist.  Int. ix.18b9-11; Cic.  Div. i.125; cf. Cic.  Fat. 19 and 27. 
42 Becker 1960, 253-5 adduces a few passages in which some ideas that are related to the principle are expressed. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
92
l o g i c
(3) the proposition 'It has been the case (at some time) that I will never be in Corinth' is necessary. 
But since necessity of a proposition is equivalent to the impossibility of its contradictory, from (3) it follows that
(4) the proposition 'It has always been the case that I will be in Corinth (at some time)' is impossible.43
Now, according to principle (v), it holds that
(5) if I am in Corinth, then it has always been the case that I will be in Corinth (at some time). 
This is equivalent to
(5´) the proposition 'It has always been the case that I will be in Corinth (at some time)' follows from the (initial) proposition 'I am in Corinth'. 
This makes it possible to apply principle (ii), that the impossible follows from the impossible, to (4) and (5´), so that one obtains as a result that (C) the proposition 'I am in Corinth' is impossible. 
And  this  is  precisely  what  the  Master  argument  was  meant  to  show. 
Moreover, this argument appears indeed to be valid. 
Where does the argument go wrong? The ancients went in for criticizing principles (i) and (ii), and one may indeed wonder whether (i) covers cases of the kind to which it has been applied above. But there are also a couple of things questionable with principles (v) and (vi). With a certain continuum theory of time, one could state that (vi) does not hold for those (rather few) cases in which the proposition at issue has started to be false only at the present moment.44 More importantly, (v) and its variants seem to smuggle in a deterministic assumption. 
iii The Stoics
If Aristotelian logic is essentially a logic of terms, Stoic logic is in its core a propositional logic. Stoic inference concerns the relations between items having  the  structure  of  propositions.  These  items  are  the  assertibles (α0ξιω!µατα) which are the primary bearers of truth-value.45 Accordingly, 43 Assuming that the proposition 'It has always been the case that I will be in Corinth (at some time)' in (4) is at least equivalent to the contradictory of the proposition 'It has been the case (at some time) that I will never be in Corinth' from (3). 
44 Cf. Denyer 1981b, 43 and 45. 
45 In  a  derivative  sense,  presentations  (φαντασι!αι) can be said to be true and false: Chrysippus Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   s t o i c s
93
Stoic logic falls into two main parts: the theory of arguments (λο!γοι) and the theory of assertibles, which are the components from which the arguments are built. 
 1: Assertibles
What is an assertible? In order to answer this, it is best to look at the various  definitions  or  accounts  of  'assertible'  that  have  survived.  What appears to be the standard definition states that
(1) an assertible is a self-complete sayable that can be stated as far as itself is concerned.46
This  definition  places  the  assertible  in  the  genus  of  self-complete  sayables,47 and so everything that holds in general for sayables and for self-complete  sayables  holds  equally  for  assertibles.  According  to  the definition, what marks o◊ assertibles from other self-complete sayables is
'that (i) they can be stated (ii) as far as they themselves are concerned'. 
Assertibles can be asserted or stated, but they are not themselves assertions or statements. They subsist independently of their being stated, in a similar  way  in  which  sayables  in  general  subsist  independently  of  their being said. This notwithstanding, it is the characteristic primary function of  assertibles  to  be  stated.  On  the  one  hand,  they  are  the  only  entities which we can use for making statements: there are no statements without assertibles.  On  the  other,  assertibles  have  no  other  function  than  their being stated.48
There is a second account of 'assertible' which fits in well with this. It determines an 'assertible' as
(2) that by saying which we make a statement49 (D.L. vii.66; cf. S.E.  M
viii.73; 74). 
'Saying' here betokens the primary function of the assertible: one cannot genuinely say an assertible without stating it. To say an assertible is more than just to utter a sentence that expresses it. For instance, 'If it is day, it is light' is a complex assertible, more precisely a conditional, that is composed of the two simple assertibles, 'It is day', which comes in as Logika Ze-te-mata,  PHerc.  307, iii.13-14 (Hülser 1987-8, 818; revised text in Marrone 1993); S.E. 
 M  vii.244-5); and in a di◊erent sense so can arguments (see below, p. 126). 
46 Το' µε'ν α0ξι!ωµα . . . ει9ναι λεκτο'ν αυ0τοτελε' α0ποφαντο'ν ο2σον ε0φ' ε/αυτ 4 (S.E.  PH  ii.104: cf. D.L. vii.65). 
47 For self-complete sayables see below, pp. 202-3. 
48 In  that  respect,  assertibles  di◊er  from  propositional  content  or  the  common  content  of di◊erent sentences in di◊erent moods. For a propositional content is as it were multifunctional: it can not only be stated, but also asked, commanded etc. In contrast, assertibles are unifunctional: one cannot ask or command them etc. 
49 ο2 λε!γοντε α0ποφαινο!µεθα. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
94
l o g i c
antecedent, and 'It is light', which comes in as consequent. Now, when I utter the sentence 'If it is day, it is light' I make use of all three assertibles. However, the only one I actually assert is the conditional, and the only thing I genuinely say is that if it is day, it is light. 
This suggests that the phrase 'can be stated' is su√cient to delimit assertibles from the other kinds of self-complete sayables. But what then is the function of the remaining part of definition (1), the phrase (ii) 'as far as itself is concerned'? In fact it does not serve to narrow down the class of assertibles any further. Rather it is meant to pre-empt a misinterpretation: the locution  'can  be  asserted'  could  have  been  understood  as  too  strict  a requirement, that is, as potentially throwing out some things which for the Stoics were assertibles. For there are two things that are needed for a statement of an assertible: first the assertible itself, secondly someone who can state it. According to Stoic doctrine, that someone would have to have a rational  presentation  in  accordance  with  which  the  assertible  subsists.50
But there are any number of assertibles that subsist even though no one has a suitable presentation.51 In such cases, one of the necessary conditions for the 'assertibility' of an assertible is unfulfilled. Here the qualification 'as far as the assertible itself is concerned' comes in. It cuts out this external, additional  condition.  For  something's  being  an  assertible  it  is  irrelevant whether there actually is someone who could state the assertible. 
In the two accounts of 'assertible' presented so far, the expression 'to state'  (α0ποφαι!νεσθαι)  has  been  taken  as  basic  and  has  not  been  explicated; nor do we find an explication of it elsewhere. But there are two further Stoic accounts of 'assertible', and they suggest that 'statability' was associated with another essential property of assertibles, namely that of having a truth-value. In a parallel formulation to account (2), we learn that (3) assertibles are those things saying which we either speak true or speak false (S.E.  M  viii.73)
and several times we find the explication that
(4) an assertible is that which is either true or false (e.g. D.L. vii.65; cf. 
66).52
From (3) and (4) we can infer that truth and falsehood are properties of assertibles, and that being true or false - in a non-derivative sense - is both 50 Cf. below, pp. 211-13. 
51 See above, p. 93 and below, p. 211. 
52 This account (4) also occurs in the form of a logical principle, '(5) every assertible is either true or false' (Cic.  Fat. 20; [Plu.]  Fat. 574e). This is a logical metatheorem which is usually called
'principle of bivalence'. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   s t o i c s
95
a necessary and a su√cient condition for something's being an assertible. 
The exact relation between truth, falsehood and 'statability' we are not told. But it seems safe to assume first that one can only state something that has a truth-value, and second that one can only speak true or false if one 'says' something that is itself either true or false, that is, only if one
'says' an assertible. 
*
From what has been said so far, one can see that assertibles resemble modern  propositions  in  various  respects.  There  are  however  essential di◊erences. For instance, true and false assertibles di◊er in their ontological status. According to a passage in Sextus Empiricus, a true assertible is opposed  to  something  -  i.e.  something  false  -  and  is  real  (υ/πα!ρχειν), whereas a false assertible is opposed to something - i.e. something true -
but is not real (S.E.  M  viii.10). A di√culty here is what is meant by 'being real'. Perhaps assertibles that are real serve at the same time both as true propositions and as states of a◊airs that obtain, whereas there is no corresponding identity between false propositions and states of a◊airs that do not obtain, since the Stoics did not allow anything like 'states of a◊airs that do not obtain'. 
The most far-reaching di◊erence is that truth and falsehood are temporal properties of assertibles. They can belong to an assertible at one time and not belong to it at another time. This becomes obvious for instance by the way in which the truth-conditions are determined: the assertible 'It is day' is true when it is day (D.L. vii.65). This understanding of 'true' is certainly close to everyday use: we might say that it is true now that it is raining, implying that it might be false later. So, when the Stoics say ' p  is true'
we have to understand ' p  is true now'. 
A  modern  proposition  is  often  taken  as  containing  no  indexicals. 
Examples of such propositions, say 'Two plus two equals four' or 'Rain occurs in England on 5/6/94' given that they are true, do not allow a serious question: and  will  they be true? (The present tense used in them is the a-temporal present.) With an assertible like 'Dio is walking' on the other hand, such a question does make sense: as with Hellenistic examples for propositions generally, it contains no definite time. This assertible now concerns  Dio's  walking  now;  uttered  tomorrow  it  will  concern  Dio's walking tomorrow, etc. This 'temporality' of (the truth-values of ) assertibles has a number of consequences for Stoic logic. 
In particular, assertibles can in principle change their truth-value: the assertible 'It is day' is true now, false later, true again tomorrow, and so Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
96
l o g i c
forth. In fact it changes its truth-value twice a day. Assertibles which do (or can) change their truth-value the Stoics called 'changing assertibles'
(µεταπι!πτοντα). The majority of Stoic examples belong to this kind. 
A temporal concept of truth raises questions about the status of tense and  time  in  relation  to  assertibles.  The  Stoics  standardly  distinguished past, present, and future assertibles. They were expressed in past, present, or future tenses. Examples are 'Socrates walked', 'It is night', 'Dio will be alive.' A passage in Sextus (S.E.  M  viii.255) makes the distinction between something being in the past or in the future and a statement being made about  something  past  or  about  something  future,  and  makes  clear  that past and future assertibles are not themselves past or future, but about past or future. They subsist in the present just as present assertibles do. 
For  they  have  their  truth-value  in  the  present,  when  they  are  asserted. 
'Being (about the) past', 'being (about the) future' etc. were hence considered as properties of the assertibles themselves and not merely as context-dependent parts of the linguistic structure of the sentences which express these assertibles.53
 2: Simple assertibles
The most fundamental distinction of assertibles was that between simple (α/πλα4) and non-simple (ου0χ α/πλα4) ones (D.L. vii.68-9, S.E.  M  viii.93, 95,  108).  Non-simple  assertibles  are  those  composed  of  more  than  one assertible, which are linked by connective particles, like 'either . . . or . . .', 
'both  .  .  .  and  .  .  .'.54 Simple  assertibles  are  defined  negatively  as  those assertibles which are not non-simple. There were various kinds of simple and of non-simple assertibles. Before I turn to them, a few preliminary remarks are in order. 
We are nowhere told what the ultimate criteria for the distinctions are. 
But it is important to keep in mind that the Stoics were not trying to give a  grammatical  classification  of   sentences.  Rather,  the  classification  is  of assertibles. So the criteria for the distinctions are not merely grammatical, but at heart logical or 'ontological'. This leads to the following complication: the only access there is to assertibles is by way of language. But there is no one-to-one correspondence between assertibles and declarative sentences. For Chrysippus one and the same sentence (of a certain type) may express an assertible or a self-complete sayable that belongs to di◊erent 53 This view that time is - in some way - a property intrinsic to the assertibles leads to several di√culties; one being the problem of the status of time-indexicals in assertibles (e.g. in 'I will be alive tomorrow'); another the relation between a future assertible stated now and a corresponding present assertible, stated at the relevant future time. 
54 See below, p. 103. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   s t o i c s
97
classes - although one may 'reveal itself ' more readily than the other.55
Equally, two sentences of di◊erent grammatical structure may express the same assertible. 
This  view  of  the  relation  between  assertibles  and  sentences  o◊ers  a gloomy prospect for the development of a logic of assertibles. How can we know which assertible a sentence expresses? Here the Stoics seem to have proceeded as follows: aiming at the elimination of (structural) ambiguities they embarked upon a programme of standardization of language such that it became possible (or easier) to read o◊ from the form of a sentence the type of assertible expressed by it. 
*
I now turn to the various types of simple assertibles. Our main sources for them are two lists, one in Diogenes Laertius (D.L. vii.69-70), the other in Sextus Empiricus (S.E.  M  viii.96-10 0), and a handful of titles of works by Chrysippus. At first glance, the lists in Sextus and Diogenes do not match very  well:  Diogenes  enumerates  six  kinds  of  simple  assertibles,  three a√rmative,  three  seemingly  negative;  Sextus  gives  only  three  kinds, which show strong parallels to Diogenes' a√rmative ones. But the names di◊er  in  two  of  the  three  cases,  and  their  accounts  di◊er,  to  various degrees, in all three cases. Diogenes lists negations (α0ποφατικα!), denials (α0ρνητικα!),  privations  (στερητικα!),  categorical  (κατηγορικα!),  catagoreutical  (καταγορευτικα!),  and  indefinite  (α0ο!ριστα)  assertibles.  Sextus lists indefinite (α0ο!ριστα), definite (ω/ρισµε!να), and middle (µε!σα) ones. 
The accounts in Diogenes show a greater degree of uniformity and are more grammatically orientated. They apply exclusively to simple assertibles. The accounts in Sextus on the other hand are rather 'philosophical'
and do not necessarily apply to simple assertibles only. There are good reasons  for  assuming  that  the  list  in  Sextus  is  earlier  than  that  in Diogenes. But it is likely that both lists were developed in the third and second  centuries  bc,  and  the  two  sets  of  concepts  are  in  fact  perfectly compatible.56 Chrysippus wrote three books about negations and seven 55 Cf. e.g. Chrysippus  Logika Ze-te-mata,  PHerc.  307, xi.19-30 (Hülser 1987-8, 826; revised text in Marrone 1993). 
56 First,  neither  of  the  lists  is  introduced  as  an  exhaustive  disjunction:  Sextus  introduces  the classification with τινα' µε!ν . . . τινα' δε! instead of τα' µε!ν . . . τα' δε! (S.E.  M  viii.96); Diogenes starts with ε0ν  δε' τοι4. . . (D.L. vii.69). Then, although Sextus does not list di◊erent types of
'negative'  assertibles,  he  discusses  Stoic  negation  (α0πο!φασι)  in  S.E.  M  viii.103-7,  that  is immediately  after  his  threefold  distinction  and  immediately  before  talking  about  non-simple assertibles, to which he turns with the words 'now that we have touched upon the simple assertibles to some degree . . .' (S.E.  M  viii.108). Finally, we find traces of most of the kinds of assertibles in Chrysippus, with names from the sets of  both  authors. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
98
l o g i c
about indefinite assertibles, one book on catagoreuticals and at least one book on privations (D.L. vii.190, Simp.  Cat. 396.19-21); he wrote about definite  assertibles  (D.L.  vii.197)  and  used  in  his  writings  the  term
'definite' in the way it is determined in Sextus.57 There are no traces of the  terms  'categorical'  and  'middle';  and  there  is  no  evidence  that Chrysippus discussed denials. 
*
Examples of Sextus' middle and Diogenes' categorical assertibles are of two  kinds:  'Socrates  is  sitting'  and  '(A)  man  is  walking'.  The  rather unhelpful name 'middle' is based on the fact that these assertibles are neither indefinite (since they define their object) nor definite (since they are not  deictic)  (S.E.  M  vii.97).  Why  in  Diogenes  the  assertibles  are  called
'categorical' remains in the dark. They are defined as those that consist of a nominative case (ο0ρθη' πτω4σι), like 'Dio' and a predicate, like 'is walking' (D.L. vii.70). It is noteworthy that assertibles of the type '(A) man is walking' are extremely rare in Stoic logic: besides the example in Sextus there seems to be only one other example, namely the second premiss and the conclusion in the No-one fallacy (D.L. vii.187). 
*
The  next  class  of  simple  assertibles,  that  is,  definite  and  catagoreutical ones, have in their standard linguistic form a demonstrative pronoun as subject expression. A typical example is 'This one is walking.' According to Sextus Empiricus, a definite assertible is defined as one that is uttered along with reference or  deixis (δει4ξι) (S.E.  M  viii.96). What do the Stoics mean  by  ' deixis'  here?  Galen  ( PHP  ii.2.9-11)  cites  Chrysippus  talking about the  deixis  with which we accompany our saying 'I', which here can be  either  a  pointing  at  the  object  of   deixis (ourselves  in  this  case)  with one's hand or finger, or making a gesture with one's head in its direction. 
So, ordinary  deixis  seems to be a non-verbal, physical act of pointing at something  or  someone,  simultaneous  to  the  utterance  of  the  sentence with  the  pronoun.  Further  information  is  provided  by  a   scholium  to Dionysius Thrax, namely that
every pronoun is fully defined either through  deixis  or through  anaphora, for a pronoun either signifies a  deixis, like 'I', 'you', 'this one', or an  anaph-
 ora, as in the case of 'he' (αυ0το!)
57 Cf.  Chrysippus   Logika  Ze-te-mata,  PHerc.  307,  v.14,17  (Hülser  1987-8,  820;  revised  text  in Marrone 1993). 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   s t o i c s
99
and that
every  deixis  is primary58 knowledge and knowledge of a person that is present. (ΣDThrax 518-19)
Here  deixis  and  anaphora  are contrasted with each other, from which one may  infer  that  definite  assertibles,  which  require   deixis,  do  not  include those in which a pronoun is used anaphorically.59 Moreover, we learn that besides 'this one' and 'I', 'you' can be used along with  deixis. And thirdly, we learn that  deixis  is always direct reference to an object that is present. 
This suggests that if, say, I point at a statue of Hipparchia and utter 'This one is a philosopher', I have not performed a genuine  deixis. (Whereas, if I had said 'This one is a statue of a philosopher' I would have.) ' Deixis  by proxy' seems to be excluded. 
Despite these clarifications of the Stoic concept of  deixis, there remain di√culties with definite assertibles: first, how does one identify a particular definite assertible? Certainly, the sentence (type) by which a definite assertible is expressed does not su√ce for its identification. For example if I have my  eyes  closed  while  someone  utters  the  sentence  'This  one  is  walking', thereby pointing at someone, I do not know which assertible was stated. 
For the sentence 'This one is walking' uttered, say, while pointing at Theo expresses a di◊erent assertible than when uttered while pointing at Dio.60
However, we have every reason to believe that when now I utter 'This one  is  walking'  pointing  at  Dio,  and  when  I  utter  the  same  sentence tomorrow, again pointing at Dio, the Stoics regarded these as two assertions of the same assertible. Thus, regarding the individuation of definite assertibles, the easiest way to understand the Stoic position is to conceive of  a  distinction  between  ' deixis  type'  and  ' deixis  token':  a  ' deixis  type'
would be determined by the object of the  deixis (and is independent of who performs an act of  deixis  when and where): whenever the object is the same, the  deixis  is of the same type; and the tokens are the particular utterances of 'this one' accompanied by the physical acts of pointing at that object. Hence we should imagine there to be one assertible 'This one is walking' for Theo (namely with the  deixis  type pointing-at-Theo), and one for Dio (with the  deixis  type pointing-at-Dio). 
But now the question arises: how does a definite di◊er from the corresponding middle assertible - e.g. 'This one is walking (pointing at Dio)'
58 'First-hand' or 'prior' or 'primary' - the Greek word is πρω4το. 
59 For the Stoic treatment of cases of anaphora see below, pp. 104-5. 
60 Our texts suggest that the Stoics identified a particular definite assertible when it is used, by the accompanying act of pointing; and when it is mentioned, by the addition of a phrase like 'pointing at Dio' just as I did above (cf. Alex.  APr. 177.28-9). 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
100
l o g i c
from 'Dio is walking'? Are they not rather two di◊erent ways of expressing the  same  assertible? Not for the Stoics. For we know that in the case of the assertibles 'Dio is dead' and 'This one is dead (pointing at Dio)' at the same time one could be true, but the other not (see below p. 116). What is it then that distinguishes them? Some information about the di◊erence between middle and definite assertibles can be obtained by scrutinizing the case in which their truth-values di◊er. 
In a passage that reports Chrysippus' rejection of the modal theorem that from the possible only the possible follows61 we learn that the assertible 'This one is dead (pointing at Dio)' cannot ever become true, since so long as Dio is alive it is false, and thereafter, once Dio is dead, instead of becoming true, it is destroyed. The corresponding assertible 'Dio is dead', on the other hand, does - as expected - simply change its truth-value from false  to  true  at  the  moment  of  Dio's  death.  The  reason  given  for  the destruction of the definite assertible is that once Dio is dead the object of the  deixis, i.e. Dio, no longer exists. 
Now,  for  an  assertible  destruction  can  only  mean  ceasing  to  subsist. 
When an assertible ceases to subsist, that implies that it no longer satisfies all the conditions for being an assertible. And this should have something to do with its being definite, that is, with its being related to  deixis. So one could say that in the case of definite assertibles, assertibility or statability (being α0ποφαντο!ν) becomes in part point-at-ability, and Stoic point-atability requires intrinsically the existence of the object pointed at. This is not only a condition of actual statability in particular situations - as is the presence  of  an  asserter;  rather  it  is  a  condition  of  identifiability  of  the assertible; of its being this assertible.62
*
Next the indefinite assertibles. In Sextus, they are defined as assertibles that  are  governed  by  an  indefinite  part  of  speech  or  'particle'  (S.E.  M
viii.97). According to Diogenes they are composed of one or more indefinite particles and a predicate (D.L. vii.70). Such indefinite particles are
'someone' (τι) or 'something' (τι). Examples are of the type 'Someone is sitting.'63 Again, Sextus presents special truth-conditions: the indefinite 61 The passage is quoted in full, below, p. 116. 
62 Diogenes Laertius' catagoreutical assertibles are defined as being composed of a deictic nominative  case  and  a  predicate  (D.L.  vii.70).  This  implies  that  the  object  of  the   deixis  must  be referred to by a deictic pronoun in the nominative. The catagoreuticals might then simply have formed a subclass of Sextus' definite assertibles. 
63 The  Stoics  had  both  simple  and  non-simple  indefinite  assertibles  and  Sextus'  account  of indefinite assertibles seems to cover both kinds. For the latter see below, pp. 111-14. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   s t o i c s
101
assertible  'Someone  is  sitting'  is  true  when  a  corresponding  definite assertible ('This one is sitting') is true, since if no particular person is sitting, it is not the case that someone is sitting (S.E.  M  viii.98). This truth condition, in connection with the requirement of existence of the object of   deixis  for  the  subsistence  of  a  definite  assertible,  gets  the  Stoics  into trouble. Assertibles like 'Someone is dead', it seems, can never be true -
since no assertible 'This one is dead' can ever be true. The Stoics could have easily mended this by expanding the truth condition to '. . . if a corresponding definite  or middle  assertible is true'. The indefinites are the Stoic counterpart to our existential propositions, and their classification on a par with the other simple assertibles leads to some complications when it comes to the construction of non-simple assertibles.64
We  do  not  know  how  the  Stoics  classified  simple  assertibles  that  are expressed by sentences with more than one noun expression, like 'This one  loves  Theo',  'Aspasia  loves  this  one',  'Leontion  loves  someone'  etc. 
The accounts in Diogenes make one think that the criterion for classification may have been always the subject expression. At any rate, examples of these kinds are extremely rare in Stoic texts.65
*
The most important kind of negative assertible is the negation. For the Stoics, a negation is formed by prefixing to an assertible the negation particle 'not:' (ου0χι!, ου0κ etc.) as for instance in 'Not: it is day'. The negation is  truth-functional:  the  negation  particle,  if  added  to  true  assertibles, makes them false, if added to false ones makes them true (S.E.  M  viii.103). 
Every negation is the negation of an assertible, namely of the assertible from  which  it  has  been  constructed  by  prefixing  'not:'.  The  assertible
'Not: it is day' is the negation of the assertible 'It is day'. An assertible and its negation form a pair of contradictories (α0ντικε!µενα):
Contradictories  are  those  <assertibles>  of  which  the  one  exceeds  the other by a negation particle, such as 'It is day' - 'Not: it is day.' (S.E.  M
viii.89)
This implies that an assertible is the contradictory of another if it is one of a pair of assertibles in which one is the negation of the other (cf. D.L. vii.73). 
Of contradictory assertibles precisely one is true and the other false.66
64 See below, pp. 111-14. 
65 Cf. also Brunschwig 1994b, 66-7; Ebert 1991, 117-18. 
66 The concept of contradictoriness is pertinent to various parts of Stoic logic, e.g. to the truth-conditions for the conditional and to the accounts of the indemonstrable arguments; see below, p. 106 and p. 127. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
102
l o g i c
Why did the Stoics insist on having the negation particle prefixed to the assertible? If we assume that they were looking for a standardized formulation for the negation of an assertible which expresses its contradictoriness,  this  becomes  readily  comprehensible.  In  order  to  obtain  an assertible's contradictory, the scope of the negation particle has to encompass the whole assertible which it negates. This is achieved with a minimum  of  structural  ambiguity  if  one  places  it  right  in  front  of  this assertible. A negation particle elsewhere in a sentence - especially in its common place before the predicate - can easily be understood as forming a  negative  assertible  that  is  not  contradictory  to  the  original  assertible. 
For instance, in the view of some Stoics, 'Callias is walking' and 'Callias is not walking' could both be false at the same time: namely in the case that Callias does not exist (Alex.  APr. 402.3-19).67 This explains why the Stoics did not call negative assertibles of this kind negations, but rather a√rmations  (Apul.  Int.  191.6-15;  Alex.  APr.  402.8-12):  for  them  in  the  above example it is a√rmed of Callias that he is not walking. 
Although in Diogenes Laertius the negation is introduced as one of the types of simple assertibles, the Stoics equally prefixed the negation particle to non-simple assertibles in order to form complex negations. The negation of a simple assertible is itself simple, that of a non-simple assertible non-simple. Thus, di◊erently from modern logic, the addition of the negative does not make a simple assertible non-simple. The negation particle
'not:' is not a propositional connective (συ!νδεσµο), for such connectives bind together parts of speech and the negation particle does not do that. 
An interesting special case of the negation is the 'super-negation' (υ/περ
αποφατικο!ν) or, as we would say, 'double negation'. This is the negation of a negation, for instance 'Not: not: it is day'. This is still a simple assertible. Its truth-conditions are the same as those for 'It is day'. It posits 'It is day', as Diogenes puts it (D.L. vii.69). 
*
Diogenes' list contains two further types of negative assertibles: denials and privations. A denial consists of a denying particle and a predicate, the example given is 'No one is walking' (D.L. vii.70). That is, this type of assertible has a compound negative as subject term. Unlike the negation particle, this negative can form a complete assertible if put together with a predicate. 
The truth-conditions of denials have not been handed down, but they seem obvious: 'No one φ's', should be true precisely if it is not the case 67 Cf. Lloyd 1978b. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   s t o i c s
103
that someone φ's. Denials must have been the contradictories of simple indefinite assertibles of the kind 'Someone φ's'. But why do they form an extra class? Would not the negations of indefinite assertibles, like 'Not: someone  φ's' have su√ced? Possibly the Stoics who introduced denials pursued  a  chiefly  grammatical  interest  in  classifying  assertibles. 
Alternatively, they may have aimed at di◊erentiating them from categorical assertibles: although grammatically they could be seen as consisting of a nominative and a predicate, they do not have existential import.68
*
Finally, the privative assertible is determined as a simple assertible composed  of  a  privative  particle  and  a  potential  assertible,  like  'This  one  is unkind' (D.L. vii.70, literally 'Unkind is this one', a word order presumably chosen in order to have the negative element at the front of the sentence).  The  privative  particle  is  the   alpha privativum 'α-'  ('un-').  It  is unclear  why  the  rest  of  the  assertible,  '(-)kind  is  this  one'  is  regarded merely as a potential assertible. For e.g. in the case of the negation proper, in 'Not: it is day', 'It is day' is referred to simply as an assertible. 
 3: Non-simple assertibles
The analogue to the modern distinction between atomic and molecular propositions  is  the  Stoic  distinction  between  simple  and  non-simple assertibles. Non-simple assertibles are those that are composed of more than one assertible or of one assertible taken twice (D.L. vii.68-9; S.E.  M
viii.93-4)  or  more  often.  These  constituent  assertibles  of  a  non-simple assertible are put together by one or more propositional connectives. A connective is an indeclinable part of speech that connects parts of speech (D.L.  vii.58).  An  example  of  the  first  type  of  non-simple  assertible  is
'Either it is day, or it is light'; one of the second type 'If it is day, it is day'. 
Concerning the identification of non-simple assertibles of a particular kind, the Stoics took what one may call a 'formalistic' approach, for which they were often - and wrongly - rebuked in antiquity.69 In their definitions of the di◊erent kinds of non-simple assertibles they provide the characteristic  propositional  connectives,  which  can  have  one  or  more  parts, and determine their position in (the sentence that expresses) the non-simple assertibles. In this way it is shown how the connectives are syntactically combined with the constituent assertibles; their place relative to (the 68 Cf. Ebert 1991, 122. The Stoics can thus express all four basic types of general statements, e.g. 
'Someone φ's', 'No one φ's' and 'No one does not φ'. 
69 Cf. e.g. Gal.  Inst. Log. iv.6; iii.5. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
104
l o g i c
sentences expressing) the constituent assertibles is strictly regulated. The advantage of such a procedure is that once one has agreed to stick to certain standardizations of language use, it becomes possible to discern logical  properties  of  assertibles  and  their  compounds  by  looking  at  the linguistic expressions used.70
Non-simple assertibles can be composed of more than two simple constituent assertibles (Plu.  Stoic. Rep. 1047c-e). This is possible in two ways. 
The first has a parallel in modern propositional logic: the definition of the non-simple  assertible  allows  that  its  constituent  assertibles  are  themselves non-simple. An example of such a non-simple assertible is 'If both it is day and the sun is above the earth, it is light'.71 The type of non-simple assertible to which such a complex assertible belongs is determined by the overall form of the assertible. The above example, for instance, is a conditional.  The  second  type  of  assertible  with  more  than  two  constituent assertibles  is  quite  di◊erent.  Conjunctive  and  disjunctive  connectives were conceived of not as two-place functors, but - in line with ordinary language - as two-or-more-place functors. So we find disjunctions with three disjuncts: 'Either wealth is good or <wealth> is evil or <wealth is> indi◊erent' (S.E.  M  viii.434; S.E.  PH  ii.150). 
It is worth noting that all non-simple assertibles have their connective or one part of it prefixed to the first constituent assertible. As in the case of the negation, the primary ground for this must have been to avoid ambiguity. Consider the statement
' p  and  q  or  r'. 
In Stoic 'standardized' formulation this would become either
Both  p  and either  q  or  r
or
Either both  p  and  q  or  r. 
The ambiguity of the original statement is thus removed. More than that, the  Stoic  method  of  pre-fixing  connectives  can  in  general  perform  the function brackets have in modern logic.72
The avoidance of ambiguity must also have been one reason behind the Stoic  practice  of  eliminating  cross-references  in  non-simple  assertibles. 
70 See Frede 1974a, 198-201. 
71 Cf. S.E.  M  viii.230 and 232, 'If it is day, <if it is day> it is light.'
72 In this respect one might rightly consider the Stoic formulation as a fore-runner of Polish notation; cf. Ebert 1991, 115-16. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   s t o i c s
105
Instead  of  formulations  of  ordinary  discourse  like  'If  Plato  walks,  he moves' and 'Plato walks and (he) moves', the subject term is repeated in full: 'If Plato walks, Plato moves', 'Plato walks and Plato moves.'73 This practice of elimination is not reflected upon in our sources, but its regular occurrence leaves no doubt that it was exercised intentionally - perhaps to simplify the application of formal logical procedures. 
Truth-conditions  for  the  non-simple  assertibles  are  given  separately from their definitions. They suggest that the Stoics were not aiming at fully  covering  the  connotations  of  the  connective  particles  in  ordinary language.  Rather  they  lend  themselves  to  the  interpretation  that  the Stoics  attempted  to  filter  out  the  essential  formal  characteristics  of  the connectives. Leaving aside the negation - which can be simple - only one type of non-simple assertible, the conjunction, is truth-functional. In the remaining cases modal relations (like incompatibility), partial truth-functionality  and  basic  relations  like  symmetry  and  asymmetry,  in  various combinations, serve as truth-criteria.74
For Chrysippus we know of only three types of non-simple assertibles: conditionals,  conjunctions,  and  exclusive-cum-exhaustive  disjunctive assertibles.  Later  Stoics  added  further  kinds  of  non-simple  assertibles, although the number seems always to have been fairly small. Besides the three  Chrysippean  kinds,  we  find  a  pseudo-conditional  and  a  causal assertible, two types of pseudo-disjunctions, and two types of dissertive assertibles. It is quite possible that the main reason for adding these was logical, in the sense that they would allow the formulation of valid inferences which Chrysippus' system could not accommodate. A certain grammatical interest may have entered into it, but this alone could not account for all the choices and omissions made.75
*
The  conjunction  (συµπεπλεγµε!νον or  συµπλοκη!)  seems  generally  to have been regarded as unproblematic. One account runs 'A conjunction is 73 Cf. D.L. vii.77, 78, 80; S.E.  M  viii.246, 252, 254, 305, 308, 423; S.E.  PH  ii.105, 106, 141; Gell. 
xvi 8.9;  Gal.  Inst.  Log.  iv.1;  Simp.  Ph ys.  130 0;  Alex.  APr.  345;  Cic.  Fat.  12-13;  see  also  below, pp. 111-14 on indefinite non-simple assertibles. 
74 In addition to the direct determination of the truth-conditions, we frequently find another way of  providing  truth-conditions,  namely  by  stating  what  a  particular  non-simple  assertible
'announces' (ε0παγγε!λλεσθαι) (D.L. vii.72; Epict.  Diss. ii.9.8). Occasionally, as in the case of the conditional, this 'announcement' covers only the uncontested main features of the truth-criterion (D.L. vii.71). 
75 The most comprehensive list of Stoic non-simple assertibles is provided in D.L. vii.71-4. Other important texts are Gell. xvi.8.9-14; Gal.  Inst. Log.  iii, iv and v, and various passages in Sextus Empiricus. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
106
l o g i c
an assertible that is conjoined by certain conjunctive connective particles, like "Both it is day and it is light." (D.L. vii.72). Like a modern conjunction, the Stoic one connects whole assertibles: it is 'Both Plato walks and Plato talks', not 'Plato walks and talks'. Unlike modern conjunction, the conjunctive assertible is defined and understood in such a way that more than two conjuncts can be put together on a par (cf. Gell. xvi.8.10). The standard form has a two-or-more part connective: 'both . . . and . . . and
. . . . . .' (και!. . . και!. . . και!. . .). The truth-conditions, too, are formulated in such a way as to include conjunctions with two or more conjuncts. A conjunction is true when all its constituent assertibles are true, false if one or more are false (S.E.  M  viii.125,128; Gell. xvi.8.11). The Stoic conjunction is therefore truth-functional.76
For Stoic syllogistic the negated conjunction (α0ποφατικη' συµπλοκη!) D.L. vii.80) is of chief importance, since only when negated is the conjunction suitable as a 'leading' premiss.77 Typically of the kind 'Not: both p  and  q'. Some more complex arguments have conjunctions with negated conjuncts as minor premiss.78
*
The conditional (συνηµµε!νον) was defined as the assertible that is formed by means of the linking connective 'if ' (ει0) (D.L. vii.71). Its standardized form is 'If  p,  q', with  p  as the antecedent and  q  as the consequent. 
In Chrysippus' time the debate about the truth-conditions of the conditional - which had been initiated by the logicians Philo and Diodorus -
was still going on. There was agreement that a conditional 'announces' a relation  of  consequence,  namely  that  its  consequent  follows  (from)  its antecedent (D.L. vii.71). It was what it is to 'follow' and the associated truth-conditions that were under debate. A minimal consensus seems to have been this: the 'announcement' of following suggests that a true conditional, if its antecedent is true, has a true consequent. Given the acceptance  of  the  principle  of  bivalence,  this  amounts  to  the  minimal requirement for the truth of a conditional that it must not be the case that the antecedent is true and the consequent false - a requirement we find also explicitly in our sources (D.L. vii.81). It is equivalent to the Philonian criterion. 
We  know  that  Chrysippus  o◊ered  a  truth-criterion  that  di◊ered from Philo's  and  Diodorus'  (Cic.  Acad.  ii.143),  and  we  can  infer  that 76 See also Brunschwig 1994c, 72-9. 
77 See below, p. 121. Cf. also Sedley 1984. 
78 For the indefinite conjunction see below, p. 113. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   s t o i c s
107
Chrysippus' alternative was the one which Sextus reports, without naming an originator, as third in his list which starts with Philo and Diodorus. 
For it is presented as Stoic in D.L. vii.73 and alluded to as Chrysippean in Cic.  Fat. 12.79
Sextus  ascribes  the  Chrysippean  criterion  to  those  who  introduce  a connection  (συνα!ρτησι)  (S.E.  PH  ii.111);  this  connection  can  only  be that  which  holds  between  the  antecedent  and  the  consequent.  The requirement  of  some  such  connection  must  have  been  introduced  to avoid  the  paradoxes  that  arise  from  Philo's  and  Diodorus'  positions.  A look at the criterion itself shows that the connection in question is determined  indirectly,  based  on  the  concept  of  conflict  or  incompatibility (µα!χη): it states that a conditional is true precisely if its antecedent and the contradictory of its consequent conflict (D.L. vii.73). According to this criterion, for example, 'If the earth flies, Axiothea philosophizes' - which came out as true for both Philo and Diodorus - is no longer true. It is perfectly  compatible  that  the  earth  flies  and  that  it  is  not  the  case  that Axiothea philosophizes. 
For  a  full  understanding  of  Chrysippus'  criterion,  one  has  to  know what sort of conflict he had in mind. But here our sources o◊er little information.  We  find  the  shift  to  a  modal  expression  in  some  later  texts, according to which two assertibles conflict if they  cannot  be true together. 
This confirms that the conflict is some sort of incompatibility. Then there is a brief passage in Alexander (Alex.  Top. 93.9-10) which has been interpreted  as  saying  that  two  assertibles   p,  q  conflict  precisely  if,  assuming that  p  holds,  q  fails to hold  because p  holds.80 However, the passage need not be of Stoic origin, and due to the condensed form of the text the interpretation inevitably remains speculative. 
It is inappropriate to ask whether Chrysippus intended empirical, analytical  or  formal  logical  conflict:  a  conceptual  framework  which  could accommodate such a distinction is absent in Hellenistic logic. Still, we can ask whether kinds of conflict that we would place in one or the other of those categories would have counted as conflict for Chrysippus. We can be confident that formal incompatibility would count. Assertibles like 'If it is light, it is light' were regarded as true (Cic.  Acad. ii.98; S.E.  PH  ii.111) - presumably because 'It is light' and 'It is not the case that it is light' are incompatible,  contradictoriness  being  the  strongest  possible  conflict  between 79 Cf. Frede 1974a, 82-3. Sextus mentions a fourth type of conditional, which is based on the concept of  emphasis (S.E.  PH  ii.112). Its truth-conditions are that the consequent has to be potentially included in the antecedent. It is unclear who introduced this conditional. Cf. Frede 1974a, 90-3; Croissant 1984. 
80 Cf. Barnes 1980, 170. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
108
l o g i c
two  assertibles.  Equally,  some  cases  that  some  may  describe  as  analytical incompatibility  were  covered:  for  instance  'If  Plato  is  walking,  Plato  is moving' and 'If Plato is breathing, Plato is alive' were regarded as true. 
The question then boils down to the point whether any cases of what one  might  label  'empirical'  incompatibility  would  count  as  conflict  for Chrysippus.81 There are a number of true conditionals where it is hard to decide whether the connection is empirical or logical, for instance, 'If it is day, it is light' and 'If there is sweat, there are invisible pores'. But some instances of empirical incompatibility were accepted by some Stoics: so conditionals with causal connections of the kind 'If someone has a wound in the heart, that one will die' were considered true.82
The connection expressed in theorems of divination on the other hand seems  to  have  been  an  exception  (Cic.  Fat.  11-15).  Such  theorems  are general statements which give in their 'consequent' the predicted future type  of  event  or  state,  and  in  their  'antecedent'  a  sign  of  the  event,  to which the diviner has access. Chrysippus accepted that such theorems, if genuine, held without exception, and hence that in all instantiations the
'consequent'  is  true  when  the  'antecedent'  is  true.  Nevertheless,  he claimed that they would not make true conditionals.83 Instead, he maintained  that  the  diviners  would  formulate  their  theorems  adequately  if they phrased them as negated conjunctions with a negated second conjunct; i.e. if instead of 'If  p,  q' they said 'Not: both  p  and not  q'.84 Given that the conjunction and the negation are truth-functional, the resulting non-simple assertible is equivalent to a Philonian conditional. 
*
Grounded on the concept of the conditional, the Stoics introduced two further kinds of non-simple assertibles (D.L. vii.71, 72). Both were probably added only after Chrysippus. Their accounts and truth criteria are in principle open to interpretation with Philo's, Diodorus', or Chrysippus'
truth criterion for the conditional as their basis. Yet the presentation of Chrysippus' conditional in the same section in Diogenes suggests that it was his conditional these later Stoics had in mind. 
81 Scholars are divided on this point. Cf. e.g. Frede 1974a, 84-9; Donini 1974-5; Bobzien 1998, 156-70. 
82 S.E.  M  viii.254-5; cf.  M  v.104, where the heartwound is referred to as cause (αι5τιον); cf. also Alex.  APr. 404.21-4. 
83 This implies that Chrysippus thought that there was no conflict in the required sense between the sign of a future event and the non-occurrence of that event. Perhaps he assumed that there was no causal connection, either direct or indirect, between sign and future event, let alone any logical link. 
84 Cicero's example for a theorem of the diviners is in fact a negated  indefinite  conjunction. For these, see below, pp. 113-14. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   s t o i c s
109
The first, called 'pseudo-conditional' (παρασυνηµµε!νον), is testified at the  earliest  for  Crinis  and  has  the  standardized  form  'Since  (ε0πει!)  p,  q'. 
(D.L. vii.71). The truth-criterion for such assertibles is that (i) the 'consequent' must follow (from) the 'antecedent' and (ii) the 'antecedent' must be true (D.L. vii.74).85
The  second  kind  is  entitled  'causal  assertible'  (αι0τιω4δε) and has the standard form 'Because (διο!τι)  p,  q'. The name is explained by the remark that  p  is, as it were, the cause/ground (αι3τιον) of  q.86 The truth-condition for the causal assertible adds simply a further condition to those for the pseudo-conditional ((i) and (ii)). It is the element of symmetry that is ruled out  for  causal  assertibles:  the  extra  condition  is  (iii)  that  if   p  is  the ground/cause for  q,  q  cannot be the ground/cause for  p, which in particular implies that 'Because  p,  p' is false. This condition makes some sense:
'being a cause of ' and 'being a reason for' are usually considered as asym-metrical relations. In contrast, assertibles of the kind 'Since  p,  p' are true pseudo-conditionals, and it is possible that both 'Since  p,  q' and 'Since  q, p' are true. 
*
The Greek word for 'or' (η3) has several di◊erent functions as a connective particle, which are distinct in other languages. It covers both the Latin  aut and the Latin  vel  and also both the English 'or' and the English 'than'. Not surprisingly, it plays a role as a connective in at least three di◊erent types of non-simple assertibles. 
Chrysippus and the early Stoics seem to have concentrated on one type of disjunctive relation only: the exhaustive and exclusive disjunctive relation, called 'διεζευγµε!νον', here rendered 'disjunction'. This is the only disjunctive  that  figures  in  Chrysippus'  syllogistic.  In  Diogenes  it  is defined  as  'an  assertible  that  is  disjoined  by  the  disjunctive  connective
"either", like "Either it is day or it is night."' (D.L. vii.72). As in the case of the conjunction, the disjunctive connective was understood as being able to have more than two disjuncts, and there are examples of such disjunctions (Gell. xvi 8.12; S.E.  PH  i.69; S.E.  M  viii.434). Thus the connective was 'either . . . or . . . or . . . . . .' (η3τοι . . . η3 . . . η3 . . .) with its first part ('either') prefixed to the first disjunct. 
85 It has been suggested that 'Since  p,  q' is an economical and appropriate way of expressing Stoic sign-inference (so Burnyeat, 1982c, 218-24; Sedley, 1982c, 242-3). For a sign is the antecedent in a sound conditional which both begins and ends with truth, and is revelatory of its consequent (cf. S.E.  PH  ii.101,104.106). 
86 The Greek αι3τιον covers both physical causes and grounds, reasons, explanations. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
110
l o g i c
The  formulation  of  the  truth-conditions  raised  some  di√culties,  not least due to the fact that more than two disjuncts were allowed. Gellius presents them as follows:
But (i) all the disjuncts must be in conflict with each other and (ii) their contradictories . . . must be contrary to each other. (iii) Of all the disjuncts one must be true, the remaining ones false. (Gell. xvi.8.13) First  a  non-truth-functional  criterion  is  given  ((i)-(ii)),  which  is  then immediately followed by something like a truth-functional criterion (iii). 
This could be either an alternative truth-criterion; or - similar to the case of the conditional - just an uncontested minimal requirement, perhaps to permit one to single out some false disjunctions more readily.87
It certainly was a necessary condition for the truth of the disjunction that precisely one of its disjuncts had to be true and all the others false. 
But  most  sources  imply  that  this  was  not  su√cient.  The  criterion  they state is stricter and typically involves the term 'conflict', which is already familiar from  the conditionals.  The  criterion is in fact a conjunction of two conditions ((i) and (ii)). First, the disjuncts must be in conflict with each other; this entails that at most one is true. Secondly, the contradictories of the disjuncts must all be contrary to each other; this ensures that not all of the contradictories are true, and hence that at least one of the original disjuncts is true. The two conditions may be contracted into one as 'necessarily precisely one of the disjuncts must be true'. As in the case of the conditional, a full understanding of the truth-criterion would require one to know what kind of conflict the Stoics had in mind. 
*
According to Gellius the Stoics distinguished two kinds of the so-called
'pseudo-disjunction'  (παραδιεζευγµε!νον).88 Regarding  their  standard form, most examples are formed with 'either . . . or . . .' or, occasionally, just with '. . . or . . .' and some have more than two pseudo-disjuncts. Thus apparently the two types of pseudo-disjunctions are indistinguishable in their  linguistic  form  from  disjunctions  (and  from  each  other).  Thus  -
unlike the case of the other non-simple assertibles - it becomes impossible to tell from the language whether an assertible is a pseudo-disjunction or a disjunction, and hence which truth-conditions it has to satisfy. 
87 It is unclear whether the disjunction was ever understood as truth-functional. Reference to the truth-values of the constituent disjuncts is made repeatedly (Gell. xvi.8.13: S.E.  PH  ii.191; D.L. 
vii.72). 
88 Gell. xvi.8.14. Cf. Proculus ( floruit  1st century ad) in the  Digesta Iustiniani Augusti  50.16.124. 
Other sources mention just one kind, e.g. Ap. Dysc.  Conj. 219.12-24. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   s t o i c s
111
If we follow Gellius (xvi.8.13-14), the truth-criteria for the two types of pseudo-disjunctions are simply the two halves of the truth-condition for the genuine disjunction: One kind is true if its pseudo-disjuncts conflict with each other, which entails that at most one of them is true. The other kind is true if the contradictories of its pseudo-disjuncts are contrary to each  other,  which  entails  that  at  least  one  of  the  pseudo-disjuncts  is true.89
*
As mentioned above, the Greek word for 'or' (η3) serves another purpose: that  of  the  English  word  'than'.  Accordingly,  we  find  a  further  kind  of non-simple assertible which is sometimes discussed in the context of the disjunctives. This is the comparative or dissertive90 assertible, formed by using a comparative or dissertive connective (διασαφητικο' συ!νδεσµο). 
Diogenes reports two types (D.L. vii.72-3), with the connectives 'more (or rather) . . . than . . .' (µα4λλον . . . η3 . . .) and 'less . . . than . . .' (η9ττον . . . 
η3 . . .). These are two-part connectives, again with the characteristic part prefixed  to  the  first  constituent  assertible,  thus  allowing  the  identification of the type of assertible. 
The  truth-conditions  for  these  two  types  have  not  survived  in Diogenes, but the treatment of such assertibles by the grammarians o◊ers some help. One text describes the comparative statements as 'when two are posited and one of them is stated', another the connective as 'as if it became the umpire of the disjunctive'.91 This suggests that the comparative assertibles stand to the disjunction as the pseudo-conditional to the conditional: the truth-conditions would be equivalent to those of 'Both either  p  or  q  and  p' ( p  µα4λλον  q) and 'Both either  p  or  q  and  q' ( p  η9ττον  q). 
*
The  definition  of  the  non-simple  assertibles  implies  that  they  take  any kind of simple assertibles as constituents, and that by combining connectives and simple assertibles in a correct, 'well-formed' way, all Stoic non-simple  assertibles  can  be  generated.  But  apparently  this  is  not  so: non-simple assertibles that are composed of simple indefinite ones raise 89 This latter type has the modern inclusive disjunction with the connective 'v' as its truth-functional counterpart. 
90 The Greek names for these assertibles are διασαφου4ν το' µα4λλον α0ξι!ωµα and διασαφου4ν
το' η:ττον α0ξι!ωµα (D.L. vii.72-3). Cf. Sluiter 1988. 
91 Οταν  τω4ν  δυ!ο  προτεθε!ντων  το' ε3ν  ει5ρηται ( Epimerismi ad Hom. 189); ω/σει' ε'πικριτικη' 
γενοµε!νη τη4 διαζευ!ξεω (Ap. Dysc.  Conj. 222.25-6). Moreover, the dissertive statement is said to ε0ππαγγε!λλεται . . . 'του4το . . . ου0 του4το' ( ibid. 223.1). 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
112
l o g i c
some special problems. Unlike the case of definite and middle assertibles, one  can  conceive  of  two  di◊erent  ways  of  putting  together  indefinite ones. 
First, following Stoic formation rules to the letter, by combining two simple  indefinite  assertibles  into  a  conjunction  or  a  conditional,  one obtains assertibles like
If someone is breathing, someone is alive. 
Both someone is walking and someone is talking. 
According to Stoic criteria these would be true, respectively, if 'Someone is breathing' and 'Not: someone is alive' are incompatible and if 'Someone (e.g. Diotima) is walking' is true and 'Someone (e.g. Theognis) is talking'
is true. However, complex assertibles with indefinite pronouns as grammatical subject more commonly tend to be of the following kind: If someone is breathing, that one (he, she) is alive. 
Someone is walking and that one is talking. 
Here the truth-conditions are di◊erent from those in the previous case. 
For the second 'constituent assertible' is not independent of the first. As a matter of fact, we find no Stoic examples of the first type of combinations of indefinite assertibles but quite a few of the second (D.L. vii.75; 82; Cic. 
 Fat. 15; S.E.  M  xi.8, 10, 11; cf. i.86). The second type was explicitly dealt with by the Stoics and it seems that the terms 'indefinite conjunction' and
'indefinite  conditional'  were  reserved  for  it.92 In  order  to  express  the cross-reference in the second constituent assertible to the indefinite particle of the first, 'that one' (ε0κει4νο) was standardly used (D.L. vii.75; 82; Cic.  Fat. 15; S.E.  M  xi.8, 10, 11).93
The Stoics were certainly right to single out these types of assertibles as a special category. Plainly, the general problem they are confronted with is that of quantification. The modern way of wording and formalizing such statements,  which  brings  out  the  fact  that  their  grammatical  subject expressions do not have a reference ('For anything, if it is F, it is G', (x) (Fx
-> Gx)), did not occur to the Stoics. We do not know how far they 'understood'  such  quantification  as  lying  behind  their  standard  formulation. 
Three things suggest that at least they were on the right track. 
*
92 Cf. Cic.  Fat. 15. On the other hand, 'indefinite disjunctions', i.e. assertibles of the kind 'Either someone φ's or that one ψ's' are not recorded. 
93 Note that in non-simple assertibles composed of two definite assertibles we have ο 9υτο twice, and not a cross-reference with ε0κει4νο or any other pronoun; see e.g. S.E.  M  viii.246. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   s t o i c s
113
First, in the context of the Stoic theory of definition and division we are told that the assertible 'Every human being is a rational, mortal animal'
was  reformulated  in  standardized  form  as  'If  something  is  a  human being, that thing is a rational, mortal animal' (S.E.  M  xi.8-9). That is, in general, 
All S are P
became
If something is S, that thing is P. 
The term used for such universal assertibles seems to have been 'universal'
(καθολικο!ν) (S.E.  M  xi.8-11; Epict.  Diss. ii.20.2-3). 
Secondly, the same passage also tells us something about what the Stoics regarded as the truth-conditions of such statements: indefinite assertibles have non-indefinite ones 'subordinated' to them. These are all those definite  and  middle  assertibles  that  di◊er  from  the  indefinite  only  with respect to their subject. The indefinite conditional is false if (at least) one of the subordinated conditional assertibles is false (S.E.  M  xi.9, 11) and a su√cient condition for falsehood is that at least one of the subordinated conditionals has a true antecedent and a false consequent ( ibid. 10). From this we can infer that indefinite conditionals are true if all their subordinated conditionals are true. There is some evidence that negative universals  were  subjected  to  a  corresponding  reformulation.  A  passage  in Epictetus ( Diss. ii.20.2-3) implies that the negative universal 'No S is P'
became 'If something is S, not: that thing is P'. 
Cic.  Fat. 11-15 suggests that, parallel to the distinction between conditionals and negated conjunctions, the Stoics distinguished a weaker type of universal statement, namely of the kind
Not: both something is S and that thing is not P. 
Such negated conjunctions would cover mere universality, as in 'All cats in this street are tabbies'. 
We have seen that in their classification of simple assertibles the Stoics could  fit  in  all  four  types  of  general  statement  without  specific  subject expression.94 But we learn of no standard formulations for Aristotelian particular statements of the kinds
Some S are P
Some S are not P. 
94 See above, pp. 10 0-3 and esp. n. 68. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
114
l o g i c
Still, since the  negated  indefinite conjunction stands in for a universal, it is possible that the Stoics thought of such particulars as indefinite conjunctions. In that case we only have to remove the prefixed negation in the negated indefinite conjunction and we obtain the two types of particulars Both something is P and not: that thing is S
Both something is P and that thing is S. 
Here the standard truth-conditions for indefinites apply: there must be at least one subordinated assertible that is true - for instance 'Both Diotima is P and not: Diotima is S'. 
Thirdly,  one  reason  for  the  importance  of  indefinite  conditionals  and indefinite negated conjunctions was no doubt the need to obtain certain types of valid arguments by means of which one can infer a singular case from a universal. For instance, the Stoics used arguments of the kind If someone φ's, that one ψ's. 
Now Dio φ's. 
Therefore Dio ψ's. 
These arguments will be discussed later. 
The  Stoic  accounts  of  assertibles,  simple  and  non-simple,  reveal  many similarities to modern propositional logic. It is tempting to draw further parallels with the modern propositional calculus, but one can easily go too far.  There  can  be  little  doubt  that  the  Stoics  attempted  to  systematize their logic. But theirs is a system quite di◊erent from the propositional calculus. In particular, Stoic logic is a logic of the validity of arguments, not a system of logical theorems or tautologies, or of logical truths.95 Of course,  the  Stoics  did  have  logical  principles,  many  of  them  parallel  to theorems  of  the  propositional  calculus.  But,  although  they  had  a  clear notion of the di◊erence between meta- and object language,96 apparently logical principles that express logical truths were not assigned a special status or dealt with any di◊erently from logical meta-principles. A survey of the principles concerning assertibles may be useful. First, there is the principle  of  bivalence  (Cic.  Fat.  20),  which  is  a  logical  meta-principle. 
Then, corresponding to logical truths we find:
- the principle of double negation, expressed by saying that a double-negation (Not: not:  p) is equivalent (ι0σοδυναµει4ν) to the assertible that is doubly negated ( p) (D.L. vii.69); 
95 See below, pp. 121-57. 
96 See below, p. 152. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   s t o i c s
115
- the principle that all conditionals that are formed by using the same assertible twice (διαφορου!µενα) (like 'If  p,  p') are true (Cic.  Acad. ii.98; S.E.  M  viii.281, 466); 
-  the  principle  that  all  disjunctions  formed  by  a  contradiction  (like
'Either  p  or not:  p') are true (S.E.  M  viii.282, 467). 
No principles of commutativity have survived in explicit formulations, and  they  may  not  have  been  expressed  as  principles.  However,  the accounts of the indemonstrable arguments tend to have symmetry of conjunction and disjunction 'built in' so that no extra rules are required.97
Moreover,  at  least  some  later  Stoics  may  have  dealt  with  relations like commutativity  and  contraposition  via  the  concepts  of  inversion (α0ναστροφη!) and conversion (α0ντιστροφη!) of assertibles (Gal.  Inst. Log. 
vi.4).  Inversion  is  the  change  of  place  of  the  constituent  assertibles  in  a non-simple assertible with two constituents. Thus, with σ , σ standing 1
2
for  the  parts  of  the  connective,  'σ  p,  σ  q'  is  inverted  to  'σ  q,  σ  p'. 
1
2
1
2
Commutativity could thus have been expressed by saying that in the case of conjunction and disjunction inversion is sound or valid. In a conversion the  two  constituent  assertibles  are  not  simply  exchanged,  but  each  is replaced by the contradictory of the other. So 'σ  p, σ  q' is converted to 1
2
'σ1 not:  q, σ2 not:  p'. The Stoics seem to have recognized that conversion holds for the conditional; that is, they seem to have accepted the principle of contraposition (cf. D.L. vii.194). Moreover, a passage in Philodemus suggests that some Stoics may have explicitly stated the principle (Phld. 
 Sign.,  PHerc. 1065, xi.26-xii.14). 
A final question concerns principles regarding the interdefinability of connectives. There is no evidence that the Stoics took an interest in reducing the connectives to a minimal number. For the early Stoics we also have no evidence that they ever attempted to give an account of one connective in terms of other connectives, or that they stated logical equivalences of that kind.98
 4: Modality
As the previous sections have illustrated, the Stoics distinguished many di◊erent types of assertibles: simple and non-simple, definite and indefinite, negative, conjunctive etc.; these were generally identifiable by their form. In addition, the Stoics classified assertibles with respect to certain 97 See below, p. 128. 
98 The  passage  Cic.  Fat.  15  that  is  sometimes  cited  in  this  context  states  that  there  is  a  logical di◊erence  between a conditional and a negated conjunction with a negated second conjunct (cf. 
also Frede 1974a, 103-4). 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
116
l o g i c
of their properties which were not part of their form. The most prominent ones, after truth and falsehood, were the modal properties possibility, necessity etc. 
Two  further  such  properties  were  plausibility  and  probability:  an assertible is plausible (πιθανο!ν) if it induces assent to it (even if it is false), like 'If someone has given birth to (τι!κτειν) something, she is its mother'; for a bird who lays or gives birth to (τι!κτειν) an egg is not its mother (D.L. 
vii.75). We would expect this rather to be discussed in the context of epistemology.  An  assertible  is  probable  or  reasonable  (ευ3λογον)  if  it  has higher chances of being true, like 'I shall be alive tomorrow' (D.L. vii.76; cf. ibid. 177). 
*
Stoic modal logic99 developed out of the debate over the 'Megaric' modalities, in particular over Diodorus Cronus' Master argument and the threat of  logical  determinism.100 Cleanthes,  Chrysippus  and  Antipater  wrote about possibility and all three attacked the Master argument. Cleanthes rejected  its  first  premiss,  that  true  past  propositions  are  necessary. 
Chrysippus had a go at the second premiss, i.e. the principle that from the possible only the possible follows (Epict.  Diss. ii.19.1-5, 9). A passage in Alexander gives us the details:
But Chrysippus says that nothing precludes that something impossible follows something possible. . . . For he says that in the conditional 'If Dio is dead, this one is dead', which is true when Dio is pointed at, the antecedent 'Dio is dead' is possible, since it can at some time become true that Dio is dead; but 'This one is dead' is impossible; for once Dio has died, the assertible 'This one is dead' is destroyed, since the object of the deixis  no longer exists. For <in the present case> the  deixis  is of a living being and in accordance with <its being a> living being. Now, if - him being dead - the 'this one' is no longer possible, and if Dio does not come into existence again so that it is possible to say of him 'This one is dead', then 'This one is dead' is impossible. This assertible would not be impossible, if at some later time, after the death of that Dio about whom the antecedent was said when Dio was alive, one could say of him again 'this one'. (Alex.  APr. 177.25-178.4)
Chrysippus' argumentation is in short as follows: First, the assertible 'Dio is dead' is possible, since it will be true at some time. Secondly, the assert-99 For a detailed discussion of Stoic modal logic see Frede 1974a, 107-17, Bobzien 1986, 40-120, Bobzien 1993. 
100 For the 'Megaric' modalities and the Master Argument see above, pp. 86 -92. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   s t o i c s
117
ible 'This one is dead (pointing at Dio)' is impossible. For any assertible that neither is nor can ever be true is impossible. And 'This one is dead (pointing at Dio)' is necessarily either false (namely as long as Dio is alive) or  destroyed  (namely  when  Dio  is  dead,  since  then  there  is  nothing  to point  at  any  more).  Thirdly,  the  conditional  'If  Dio  is  dead,  this  one  is dead' (pointing at Dio) - as long as it subsists - is true:101 any conditional of the form 'If x is φ-ing, this one (pointing at x) is φ-ing' is a true conditional, according to all three Hellenistic truth criteria for conditionals.102
Finally, if a conditional is true, its consequent follows from its antecedent. 
Hence Chrysippus provided a case of a conditional in which the consequent assertible, which is impossible, follows from the antecedent assertible, which is possible. Whatever we may think about it, Chrysippus must have been su√ciently content with his rejection of the Master argument; for he developed his own system of modal notions, which soon became the Stoic one. 
*
Stoic modal logic is not a logic of modal propositions, e.g. propositions of the type 'It is possible that it is day' or 'It is possibly true that it is day', formed with modal operators which qualify states of a◊airs, or propositions. Instead, their modal theory was about non-modalized propositions like 'It is day', insofar as they are possible, necessary and so on. (This is well illustrated in the Alexander passage,  APr. 177-8, quoted above.) The modalities  were  considered  -  primarily  -  as  properties  of  assertibles and, like truth and falsehood, they belonged to the assertibles at a time; consequently an assertible can in principle change its modal-value. Like Philo  and  Diodorus,  Chrysippus  distinguished  four  modal  concepts: possibility,  impossibility,  necessity  and  non-necessity.  Although  the concept of contingency (in the sense of that which is both possible and non-necessary)  was  important  for  the  Stoic  debate  about  determinism, we do not find a special term for it. The discussion of contingent assertibles was usually conducted in terms of two sub-groups, assertibles that are  both  false  and  possible  and  assertibles  that  are  both  true  and  non-necessary.103
For the Stoic system of modal notions, the situation with the sources is 101 At the point when Dio dies, the antecedent assertible turns true. The consequent, instead of turning true as well, is destroyed, and together with it - or so Chrysippus must assume - the whole conditional is destroyed, i.e. ceases to subsist. 
102 See above, pp. 84-6 and pp. 106-8. 
103 Cf. Cic.  Fat. 13. For the relevance to the debate about determinism see Bobzien 1997a, 75-6. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
118
l o g i c
bad but not hopeless; besides several passages that deal with some of the Stoic modalities104 there are two reports of a set of Stoic modal definitions,  one  in  Diogenes  Laertius  (vii.75)  and  one  in  Boethius  ( Int.  2.  ii. 
234.27-235.4 Meiser); although the reports di◊er in various respects, they in fact present the same account. By adding up all the bits and pieces, and making the plausible assumption that the Stoic modal notions, too, fit the four  requirements  of  normal  modal  logic105 it  becomes  possible  to restore as follows the definitions given in Diogenes and Boethius:106
A  possible  assertible is one which (A) is capable of being true and (B) is not hindered by external things from being true; 
an  impossible  assertible is one which (A´) is not capable of being true <or (B´) is capable of being true, but hindered by external things from being true>; 
a  necessary  assertible is one which (A´), being true, is not capable of being false  or  (B´)  is  capable  of  being  false,  but  hindered  by  external  things from being false; 
a  non-necessary  assertible is one which (A) is capable of being false and (B) is not hindered by external things <from being false>. 
We can be confident that this set of modal concepts was Chrysippus'; for we  know  that  Chrysippus'  modal  concepts  were  meant  to  improve  on Diodorus' (Cic.  Fat. 12-14) and in Plutarch ( Stoic. Rep. 1055d-f.) we find remnants of Diogenes' accounts, with identical formulations, ascribed to Chrysippus. 
The  definitions  of  possibility  and  non-necessity  are  conjunctions;  in their case, two conditions (A and B) have to be fulfilled. The definitions of necessity and impossibility, on the other hand, are disjunctions; in their case one of two alternative conditions has to be satisfied (Aór B´); in this way in e◊ect two types of necessity and impossibility are distinguished. 
Diogenes'  example,  'Virtue  benefits'  (D.L.  vii.75),  most  probably  illustrates necessity of the first type; his example 'The earth flies'. ( ibid.) illustrates impossibility of the first type. 
The  first  parts  of  all  four  definitions  (A,  A´),  conjuncts  and  disjuncts 104 Plu.  Stoic. Rep. 1055d-f; Cic.  Fat. 12-15; Epict.  Diss. ii.19.1-5, 9; Alex.  Fat. ch. 10. 
105 See p. 87. 
106 This  reconstruction  is  based  on  Frede  1974a,  107-14,  Bobzien  1986,  45-56.  The  possibility definition (δυνατο'ν µε'ν <ε0στιν α0ξι!ωµα > το' ε0πιδεκτικο'ν του4 α0ληθε' ει:ναι τω4ν ε0κτο' µη' 
ε0ναντιουµε!νων προ' το' α0ληθε' ει:ναι ) could also be translated as 'A possible assertible is one which  is  capable  of  being  true,  when  external  things  do  not  prevent  its  being  true'  (cf.  e.g. 
Mates 1961, 41); the same holds for the non-necessity definition. However, this interpretation is logically and historically less satisfactory (cf. Bobzien 1986, 40-4, 51-3). 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   s t o i c s
119
alike, very much resemble Philo's modal definitions;107 this can hardly be a coincidence. Chrysippus must have chosen Philo's accounts as the basis for his own. 
In the case of possibility and non-necessity the second parts (B) add a further condition. These conditions feature 'external things' (τα' ε0κτο!) that do not prevent the assertibles from having a certain truth-value. The a√rmative counterparts to these conditions (B´) specify the second type of Chrysippean necessity and impossibility. Here the external things have to prevent the assertibles from having a certain truth-value. We have no examples  of  such  external  things,  but  ε0κτο! should  refer  to  something external to the logical subject of the assertible. Things that prevent truth should include ordinary, physical hindrances: for example, a storm or a wall or chains that prevent you from getting somewhere; the surrounding ocean  that  prevents  some  wood  from  burning.  It  is  harder  to  imagine what  counted  as  external  hindrances  for  something's  being  false. 
Presumably they were things that externally forced something to be the case. Locked doors might force Dio to be or remain in a certain room; and hence prevent 'Dio is in this room' from being false. The accounts leave us in  the  dark  about  another  aspect  of  the  external  hindrances,  namely  at what time or times they are taken as being present (or absent). Knowledge of this is essential for an adequate understanding of the modalities. At first blush one might think that the circumstances are meant to hinder just at the time of utterance of the assertible. But that is unlikely. For it would have the curious e◊ect that, say, the assertible 'Sappho is not reading' is necessary at a time at which someone keeps her from reading (e.g. by temporarily  hiding  all  reading  material),  but  three  minutes  later,  that  hindrance being removed, the same assertible would no longer be necessary; and a few minutes later it could be necessary again etc.108
The passage in Alexander quoted above (Alex.  APr. 177-8) suggests that for  the  possibility  of  an  assertible,  the  requirement  of  absence  of  hindrances is not restricted to the time of its utterance; but rather covers present plus future time - relative to the utterance of the assertion. For we learn that for Chrysippus 'Dio is dead' is possible (now) if it can be true at some time (ποτε!, 177.29-30); equally, that 'this one is dead (pointing at Dio)',  which  is  impossible,  would  not  be  impossible  (now)  if,  although being  false  now,  it  could  be  true  at  some  later  time  (υ1στερο!ν ποτε!, 178.1-4). 
107 For Philo's modal accounts see above, p. 86. 
108 Certainly, this would clash with the Stoic assumption that that which is necessary is - in some sense at least - always true (Alex.  Fat. 177.8-9). 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
120
l o g i c
If one reads 'can be true' as short for Chrysippus' requirement 'is capable  of  being  true  and  not  prevented  from  being  true',  it  seems  that  an assertible is possible for Chrysippus if (A) it is Philonian possible and (B) there is some time from now on at which it is not hindered from being true. For instance, 'Sappho is reading' is Chrysippean possible, as long as Sappho is not continuously prevented from reading. Correspondingly an assertible falls under the second part of the definiens of the impossible if (B´) it is capable of being true, but is from now on prevented from being true - as in the above example, if Sappho were suddenly struck by incurable  blindness  or  died.  Chrysippean  necessity  of  the  second  type  (B´) would require continuous prevention of falsehood; non-necessity at least temporary absence of such prevention. For example, 'Sappho is reading'
is  non-necessary  as  long  as  she  is  not  continuously  externally  forced  to read.109
*
So we can see that Chrysippus took a middle position between Philo and Diodorus,  combining  elements  of  both  modal  systems.  A  comparison between Diodorus and Chrysippus shows that all assertibles that are contingent for Diodorus are contingent for Chrysippus as well: 'It is night'
was contingent for Diodorus, since there are present-or-future times at which it is true, and present-or-future times at which it is false. The same assertible is contingent for Chrysippus (Alex.  APr. 178.5-8), since there are both present-or-future times at which it is not hindered from being true,  and  times  at  which  it  is  not  hindered  from  being  false.  But  for Chrysippus, in addition, there are assertibles that neither are nor will ever be true, but are still possible; namely all those that are false but are at some present-or-future time not hindered from being true. So, if Hipparchia never read Plato's  Symposium, 'Hipparchia reads Plato's  Symposium' would still not have been Chrysippean impossible; but it would always have been Diodorean impossible. 
Contrasting Chrysippus with Philo, fewer assertibles are possible: for instance 'This wood is burning' (namely the piece of wood that is and will be at the bottom of the sea until it decomposes) is Philonian possible; but it is not Chrysippean possible, since there is a lasting circumstance (the sea or its wetness) which prevents the assertible from being true. 
109 Some  later  Stoics  seem  to  have  considered  the  modalities  as  merely  epistemic  (Alex.  Fat. 
176.14-24); according to them, possible is that which as far as we know is not externally prevented from being the case. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   s t o i c s
121
Why did Chrysippus add the Philonian requirement to his definitions? 
The answer should be that there are assertibles that are not in any way hindered by external circumstances from having a certain truth-value, but which Chrysippus nevertheless must have wanted not to be contingent: think of assertibles like 'This triangle has three sides' or 'This square is round'. For such assertibles the first disjuncts of the necessity and impossibility accounts were required. 
 5: Arguments
The  second  main  part  of  Stoic  logic  is  their  theory  of  arguments. 
Arguments  (λο!γοι)  form  another  subclass  of  complete  sayables  (D.L. 
vii.63);  they  are  neither  thought  processes  nor  beliefs,  nor  are  they  linguistic expressions; rather, like assertibles, they are meaningful, incorporeal entities (S.E.  PH  iii.52;  M  viii.336). However, they are not themselves assertibles, but compounds of them. 
An  argument  is  defined  as  a  compound  or  system  of  premisses (λη!µµατα)  and  a  conclusion  (ε0πιφορα!, συµπε!ρασµα)  (D.L.  vii.45). 
Premisses and conclusion, in turn, are self-complete sayables, standardly assertibles, which I shall call the 'component assertibles' of the argument. 
The following is a typical Stoic argument:
P
If it is day, it is light. 
1
P
But it is day. 
2
C
Therefore, it is light. 
It has a non-simple assertible (P ) as one premiss and a simple assertible 1
(P ) as the other. The non-simple premiss, usually put first, was referred 2
to as the 'leading premiss' (η/γεµονικο'ν  λη4µµα). The second or the last premiss was called the 'co-assumption' (προ!σληψι). It is usually simple; when it is non-simple, it contains fewer constituent assertibles than the leading premiss. The co-assumption was introduced by 'but' (δε!) or 'now'
(α0λλα' µη!ν), and the conclusion by 'therefore' (α3ρα). 
All accounts of 'argument' have in common that they talk about a plurality of premisses - and indeed, it was the orthodox Stoic view that an argument  must  have  more  than  one  premiss.110 We  are  not  told  why. 
Thus, for the Stoics, compounds of assertibles of the kind
 p; therefore  p
 p  and  q; therefore  p
 p; therefore either  p  or  q
110 The exception is Antipater who admitted single premiss arguments; see below, p. 155. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
122
l o g i c
are not arguments. On the other hand, 
If  p,  p;  p; therefore  p
counts as an argument - and as valid at that. 
A passage in Sextus defines 'premisses' and 'conclusion': the premisses of an argument are the assertibles that are adopted by agreement for the establishing  of  the  conclusion;  the  conclusion  is  the  assertible  that  is established  by  the  premisses  (S.E.  M  viii.302;  cf.  PH  ii.136).111
'Premisses'  and  'conclusion'  are  thus  determined  as  relative  terms  that depend on each other. The account of 'premisses' illustrates clearly that for the Stoics the theory of argument is still embedded in the dialectical practice of conducting arguments by question and answer. 
A di√culty with this account is that it seems to imply that something only counts as an argument if the premisses - at the very least - appear true  to  the  discussants.  This  apparently  rules  out  arguments  with  evidently false premisses and with premisses the truth of which is not or not yet known. In this way a whole range of arguments seems to be precluded from  being  recognized  as  such  by  the  Stoics:  indirect  proof,  theories grounded on hypotheses, 'thought experiments', arguments concerning future courses of actions etc. 
Perhaps not all Stoics shared this account of 'premiss'. It is also possible that di√culties like the above gave rise to the development of the Stoic device of supposition or hypothesis (υ/πο!θεσι)112 and hypothetical arguments (λο!γοι υ/ποθετικοι!): the Stoics thought that occasionally 'it is necessary  to  postulate  some  hypothesis  as  a  sort  of  stepping-stone  for  the subsequent argument' (Epict.  Diss. i.7.22 tr. Oldfather).113 Thus, one or more premisses of an argument could be such a hypothesis in lieu of an assertible; and it seems that hypothetical arguments were arguments with such  hypotheses  among  their  premisses.114 Hypotheses  as  premisses apparently were phrased as 'Suppose it is night' (ε3στω νυ!ξ) instead of 'It is  night',  by  which  an  assertible  is  expressed  (Epict.  Diss.  i.25.11-13; 111 'Established' (κατασκευαζο!µενον) should not mean 'validly derived' here, since that would exclude the existence of invalid arguments. 
112 Hypothesis is one of the kinds of self-complete sayables on which see below, pp. 202-3. 
113 Chrysippus wrote a considerable number of books on hypotheses and hypothetical arguments (D.L. vii.196; 197; cf. D.L. vii.66). The placement of the book-titles after those about changing arguments, which Epictetus repeatedly mentions together with the hypothetical arguments, as well  as  the  book-titles  on  hypothesis  and  exposition  (ε3κθεσι)  in  the  same  section  render  it likely  that  Chrysippus'  hypothetical  arguments  were  those  Epictetus  talks  about.  Cf.  also Bobzien 1997b. 
114 The range of examples for Stoic hypotheses fits well the above-mentioned types of arguments in which assertibles would not do as premisses; e.g. 'Suppose that the earth is the centre of the solar sphere' (Ammon.  Int. 2.31-2); 'Suppose it is night' (while it is day) (Epict.  Diss. i.25.11-13). 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   s t o i c s
123
Ammon.  Int. 2.31-2). These premisses could be agreed upon  qua  hypotheses;  that  is,  the  interlocutors  agree  -  as  it  were  -  to  enter  a  non-actual
'world' built on the respective assumption, but they remain aware of the fact that this assumption and any conclusions drawn hold only relative to the fact that this assumption has been made.115
*
The most important distinction of arguments is that between valid and invalid  ones.  The  Stoic  general  criterion  was  that  an  argument  is  valid (συνακτικο!, περαντικο!) if the corresponding conditional formed with the conjunction of the premisses as antecedent and the conclusion as consequent  is  correct  (S.E.  PH  ii.137;  cf.  S.E.  M  viii.415;  PH  ii.249).  If  the assertible 'If (both P and . . . and P
1
n), then C' is true, then the argument
'P ; . . . P
1
n; therefore C' is valid. Diogenes Laertius' report of the criterion for invalidity of arguments (D.L. vii.77) implies that the criterion for the correctness of the conditional was the Chrysippean one: an argument is valid provided that the contradictory of the conclusion is incompatible with  the  conjunction  of  the  premisses.  Thus  there  is  some  similarity between the Stoic concept of validity and our modern one. But it must be kept in mind that the conditional has to be true according to Chrysippus'
criterion,  which  as  we  have  seen,  is  not  necessarily  restricted  to  logical consequence.116 This brings out a shortcoming of the Stoic concept of validity:  for  what  is  needed  is  precisely  logical  consequence.  It  is  thus unfortunate to have the same concept of consequence for both the relation between antecedent and consequent in a conditional, and the relation between premisses and conclusion.117 In any event, the concept of conflict is too vague to serve as a proper criterion for validity. 
Perhaps  the  Stoic  classification  of  invalid  arguments  may  shed  some further  light  on  their  general  concept  of  validity.  Sextus  tells  us  about some Stoics who distinguished four ways in which arguments could be invalid  ( M  viii.429-434;  PH  ii.146-51):  first,  in  virtue  of  disconnectedness (δια!ρτησι), that is, when the premisses lack communality or connectedness with one another and with the conclusion, as in
115 Cf.  Epict.  Diss.  i.25.11-13;  on  Stoic  hypotheses  and  hypothetical  arguments  in  general  see Bobzien 1997b. 
116 See above, p. 106. Note also that the Stoic validity criterion di◊ers in both content and function from the modern principle of conditionalization. For the Stoics, the truth of the conditional is a criterion for the validity of the argument, not vice versa; moreover, the conditional must  be  constructed  from  a  Stoic  argument,  which  implies  that  its  antecedent  must  be  a conjunction. 
117 One result of this is that true arguments in  modus ponens  inevitably turn out redundant. See S.E. 
 M  viii.441-2 and Barnes 1980, 173-5. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
124
l o g i c
If it is day, it is light. 
Now wheat is being sold in the market. 
Therefore it is light. 
Secondly,  in  virtue  of  surplus  or  redundancy  (παρολκη!),  that  is,  when something is added extrinsically and superfluously, as 'virtue benefits' in the following argument:
If it is day, it is light. 
Now it is day. 
And also virtue benefits. 
Therefore it is light. 
Thirdly in virtue of being propounded in an incorrect (µοχθηρο!) form, as for example, in
If it is day, it is light. 
Now it is light. 
Therefore it is day. 
Finally in virtue of omission or deficiency (ε3λλειψι) as in
Either wealth is good or wealth is bad. 
But wealth is not bad. 
Therefore wealth is good. 
Here, what is claimed to have been omitted is the disjunct '(or) wealth is indi◊erent' in the leading premiss, and accordingly the negated conjunct
'(and) neither is wealth good' in the co-assumption, such that the proper conclusion would have been 'Therefore wealth is indi◊erent'. 
This  fourfold  distinction  is  unsatisfactory  from  the  point  of  view  of modern  logic:  the  examples  of  redundancy  and  of  omission  seem  to  be perfectly valid;118 the example of disconnectedness seems to be nothing but a special case of invalidity due to an incorrect form (and so would be examples  of  omission,  say,  of  a  whole  premiss).  This  makes  the  Stoic authors look rather bad logicians. We could reprove them and leave it at that.  Alternatively,  if  we  acknowledge  that  Hellenistic  theory  of  argument  developed  out  of  the  practice  of  dialectical  debate,  and  is  still entrenched in that context (recall the account of premisses and conclusion in Sextus), we can at least get an idea of what those Stoics were after. 
First,  one  may  notice  that  Sextus  reports  that  'invalid  arguments   come 118 The fourth, illustrating omission, appears to confound the truth of the leading premiss (and the way the proponent got it wrong) with the validity of the argument. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   s t o i c s
125
 about  in  four  ways'  rather  than  'they  distinguished   four  kinds  of  invalid arguments',119 and they come about 'in virtue of ' (κατα!) disconnectedness etc., which might hence be external to them. So we should expect what follows not to be entirely a matter of formal logic. Indeed, all four ways in which invalid arguments come about seem to be connected with the  intention  of the proponent of the argument. The four ways make most sense if one understands them as four ways of criticizing an argument by indicating  how  to   mend  it  such  that  the  argument  that  is  intended  or appropriate  in  the  particular  discourse  comes  out  right.  We  have  to assume that in the cases of redundancy, omission and disconnectedness the proponents do not get the form wrong; rather, they envisage the right form, but add something superfluous, leave something out, or put in the wrong assertible or assertibles 'in that form', as it were. Whereas in the case  of  the  incorrect  form,  leaving  out,  adding,  or  replacing  something does not help, since the proponent envisages the wrong form and would justify  the  argument  by  referring  to  the  validity  of  arguments  of  that form: in this case the proponent would have to understand that the form is not correct. 
How does Chrysippus' notion of validity square with this conception of  invalidity?  Tested  against  his  general  criterion  of  validity,  incorrect form,  disconnectedness  and  omission  (of  a  straightforward  case  -  one would hope he did not accept the example in Sextus) would turn out as invalid, too. But what about redundancy? One can imagine why redundancy was seen as an obstruction to validity. It is not only that, if one propounds an argument and adds irrelevant premisses, it might obfuscate the deductive structure of the inference; also, one might claim that the conclusion does not in any true sense follow  from  the irrelevant premisses. We know that Chrysippus wrote two books about redundancy; they are listed in the context of his works on syllogistic (D.L. vii.195). But when we look at his validity criterion, certainly at first sight it would not outlaw redundancy: if a conjunction of assertibles (P , P . . . P
1
2
n) conflicts with another
assertible (not:C), then it will certainly also conflict with it when any further conjunct whatsoever is added. This, however, might not in fact be so, if Chrysippus' concept of consequence resembled the - implicit - concept of conflict we find in Alex.  Top. 93.9-10.120 For if 'conflict' means that 'P1
and P and . . . P
and P and . . . P
2
n conflict with not:C since,  because  P1
2
n, 
not:C fails to hold', the addition of a further conjunct might cancel the 119  M  viii.429; 'to come about' (γι!νεσθαι) recurs three times, and equally in the  PH  passage. 







120 See above, p. 107. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
126
l o g i c
conflict. Supposing that the above conflict holds, 'P . . . and P
'
1
n and Pn⫹1
might nonetheless not conflict with 'not:C', since Pn⫹ is not one of the 1
factors  because of which 'not:C' fails to hold. That is, the 'because' would prevent the addition of irrelevant conjuncts. In this way the idea of the relevance of the premisses to the conclusion, as a condition for 'proper following from', would be part of the validity criterion. 
*
In addition to validity, the Stoics assumed that arguments could have the properties  of  truth  and  falsehood.  An  argument  is  true  (we  would  say
'sound') if, besides being valid, it has true premisses (D.L. vii.79, cf. S.E. 
 M  viii.418); an argument is false if it is either invalid or has a false premiss (D.L. vii.79). The predicates of truth and falsehood are here based on the concept of truth of assertibles, but are used in a derivative sense. The relevance of truth and falsehood of arguments is epistemic rather than logical: only a true argument guarantees the truth of the conclusion. 
But the Stoics went further in assuming that arguments could also have modal properties: like assertibles, arguments can be possible, impossible, necessary and non-necessary (D.L. vii.79). The modal predicates, too, can only be used in a derivative sense here. The motivation behind such a classification is easy to make out; again, it is in the first place epistemic. The time dependency of assertibles a◊ects the arguments. Since the concept of truth of arguments is based on that of truth of assertibles, and the latter can change their truth-value, so can arguments. For instance, the argument If it is day, it is light. 
Now it is day. 
Therefore it is light. 
will be true in the daytime but false at night.121 It seems that arguments with premisses that did (or could) change truth-value were called 'changing  arguments'  (µεταπι!πτοντε  λο!γοι)  (Epict.  Diss.  i.7.1;  iii.21.10). 
Chrysippus  or  some  later  Stoic  wrote  five  books  about  changing  arguments (D.L. vii.195-6). Now, if like the Stoics one is interested in knowledge gained by inference, one would focus on conclusions on which one can always rely, that is, on true arguments of which one can be sure that they are always true - or at least from the time onwards at which the argument was propounded. It is hence plausible to assume that the modalities 121 Two of several passages that take into account truth-value changes of arguments are S.E.  M
viii.418 and  PH  ii.139. There the provisos 'given it is this night' and 'it being day' are added when a particular truth-value of an argument is stated. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   s t o i c s
127
of arguments were introduced in order to have available a way of referring to  arguments  which  do  not  change  truth-value.  For  this  purpose  the Chrysippean modal accounts122 could have been used: for example, a necessary argument would be one that either cannot be false or can be false but is hindered by external circumstances from being false, and accordingly for the three remaining modalities. 
 6: Syllogistic
More  important  for  logic  proper  are  the  divisions  of  valid  arguments. 
These are based primarily on the form of the arguments. The most general distinction is that between syllogistic arguments (συλλογιστικοι' λο!γοι) or syllogisms (συλλογισµοι!) and those called 'valid in the specific sense'
(περαντικοι' ει0δικω4).  The  latter  are  concludent  (i.e  they  satisfy  the general  criterion  of  validity),  but  not  syllogistically  so  (D.L.  vii.78). 
Syllogisms are, first, the indemonstrable arguments, that is, those that are valid in virtue of having one of a limited number of basic forms, and secondly those that can be reduced to indemonstrable arguments by the use of certain rules called 'θε!µατα'.123
The indemonstrable syllogisms are called 'indemonstrable' (α0ναπο!δεικτο) because they are not in need of proof or demonstration (α0πο!δειξι) (D.L. vii.79), since their validity is obvious in itself (S.E.  M  ii.223). The talk  of  five  indemonstrables  alludes  to  classes  of  argument,  each  class characterized by a particular argument form in virtue of which the arguments of that class are understood to be valid. Chrysippus distinguished five such classes; later Stoics up to seven. 
The Stoics defined the di◊erent kinds of indemonstrables by describing the form of an argument of that kind. The five Chrysippean types were described  as  follows.124 A  first  indemonstrable  is  an  argument  that  is composed  of  a  conditional  and  its  antecedent  as  premisses,  having  the consequent of the conditional as conclusion (S.E.  M  viii.224; D.L. vii.80). 
An example is
If it is day, it is light. 
It is day. 
Therefore it is light. 
A  second  indemonstrable  is  an  argument  that  is  composed  of  a  conditional  and  the  contradictory  of  its  consequent  as  premisses,  having  the 122 For Chrysippus' modal accounts see above, p. 118. 
123 For a comprehensive discussion of Stoic syllogistic and its relation to modern logic see Bobzien 1996. 
124 For the terminology used cf. the section on non-simple assertibles. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
128
l o g i c
contradictory  of  its  antecedent  as  conclusion  (S.E.  M  viii.225;  D.L. 
vii.80), e.g. 
If it is day, it is light. 
Not: it is day. 
Therefore not: it is light. 
A third indemonstrable is an argument that is composed of a negated conjunction and one of its conjuncts as premisses, having the contradictory of the other conjunct as conclusion (S.E.  M  viii.226; D.L. vii.80), e.g. 
Not: both Plato is dead and Plato is alive. 
Plato is dead. 
Therefore not: Plato is alive. 
A fourth indemonstrable is an argument that is composed of a disjunctive assertible and one of its disjuncts as premisses, having the contradictory of the remaining disjunct as conclusion (D.L. vii.81), e.g. 
Either it is day or it is night. 
It is day. 
Therefore not: it is night. 
A fifth indemonstrable, finally, is an argument that is composed of a disjunctive  assertible  and  the  contradictory  of  one  of  its  disjuncts  as  premisses, having the remaining disjunct as conclusion (D.L. vii.81), e.g. 
Either it is day or it is night. 
Not: it is day. 
Therefore it is night. 
Each of the five types of indemonstrables thus consists - in the simplest case - of a non-simple assertible as leading premiss and a simple assertible as co-assumption, having another simple assertible as conclusion.125 The leading premisses use all and only the connectives that Chrysippus distinguished. 
The descriptions of the indemonstrables encompass many more arguments than the examples suggest, and this for three reasons. First, in the case of the third, fourth and fifth indemonstrables the descriptions of the argument-form provide for 'commutativity' in the sense that each time it is left open which constituent assertible or contradictory of a constituent 125 The  forms  of  the  first  and  second  indemonstrables  correspond  to  the  basic  argument-forms later named  modus (ponendo) ponens  and  modus (tollendo) tollens  and those of the fourth and fifth to the basic argument-forms later called  modus ponendo tollens  and  modus tollendo ponens. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   s t o i c s
129
assertible  is  taken  as  co-assumption.  For  instance,  if  we  symbolize  the constituent assertibles in a fourth indemonstrable as  d ,  d (disjuncts one 1
2
and two), the two sub-types covered are of the following kind: Either  d  or  d
; therefore not  d . 
1
2; now  d 1
2
Either  d  or  d ; now  d ; therefore not  d 1
2
2
1. 
Secondly, the descriptions are all given in terms of assertibles and their contradictories,  not  in terms of a√rmative and negative assertibles. In all five  cases,  the  first  premiss  can  have  any  of  the  four  combinations  of a√rmative and negative assertibles: for instance in the case of the first and second  indemonstrable  (if  we  symbolize  a√rmative  assertibles  by   p,  q, negative ones by not:  p, not:  q):126
if  p,  q
if not:  p,  q
if  p, not:  q
if not:  p, not:  q. 
Thus, putting together these two points, we have four sub-types under the first and second description of indemonstrables and eight in the case of the third, fourth, and fifth, thirty-two subtypes in all. 
The third reason for the multitude of kinds of indemonstrables is the fact that the descriptions, as formulated, permit the constituent assertibles of the leading premisses to be themselves non-simple. And indeed, we have an example in Sextus which is called a second indemonstrable and which is of the kind127
If both  p  and  q, r; now not: r; therefore not: <both  p  and>  q. 
In addition to describing the five types of indemonstrables at the meta-level, the Stoics employed a second way of determining their basic forms of arguments, namely by virtue of modes (τρο!ποι). A mode is defined -
rather vaguely - as 'a sort of scheme of an argument' (D.L. vii.76; S.E.  M
viii.227).128 Diogenes Laertius adds the example
If the first, the second; now the first; therefore the second. 
This is an example of the (or a) mode of the first indemonstrable. It di◊ers from a first indemonstrable in that ordinal numbers have taken the place of 126 Where not indicated otherwise,  p,  q,  r, etc. symbolize a√rmative and negative simple assertibles alike. 
127 S.E.  M  viii.237; the text requires emendation: in the conclusion the first conjunct of the leading premiss has to be added, as is clear from 236. 
128 In  later  authors,  τρο!πο and the Latin translation ' modus' are frequently used as synonyms either for 'indemonstrable' or for 'basic kind of indemonstrable' (e.g. Phlp.  APr. 244.9, 12, 3; 245.23, 26, 33; Cic.  Top. 54-7; Martianus Capella iv.414-21), whereas the term 'indemonstrable' is not used at all in these texts. In contrast, what was called τρο!πο by the early Stoics is then called  forma  in Latin (e.g. Martianus Capella iv.420) and in Greek probably σχη4µα (Phlp. 
 APr. 246.10-12). 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
130
l o g i c
the antecedent and consequent assertibles of the leading premiss, and the same ordinals are re-used where the antecedent and consequent assertibles recur in co-assumption and conclusion. It is always whole assertibles that correspond to the ordinals - as opposed to terms that correspond to the letters in Aristotelian logic. A mode is syllogistic when a corresponding argument with the same form is a syllogism. There can be little doubt that the modes played a prominent role in the Stoic theory of arguments. They feature in at least seven of Chrysippus' book titles (D.L. vii.193-5). But their exact status in Stoic logic is hard to make out. It seems that modes, and parts of modes, performed at least three distinct functions. 
First, the modes functioned as forms in which the di◊erent indemonstrables - and other arguments - were propounded (S.E.  M  viii.227;  PH
ii.292). If for instance one wants to propound a first indemonstrable, the mode  provides  a  syntactic  standard  form  in  which  one  has  (ideally)  to couch it. This is similar to the requirement of couching non-simple assertibles in a certain form, for example, of expressing a conjunction by using
'both  .  .  .  and  .  .  .'.129 When employed in this way, the modes resemble argument-forms: the ordinal numbers do not stand in for particular assertibles; rather, their function is similar to that of schematic letters. So, any argument  that  is  propounded  in  a  particular  syllogistic  mode  is  a  valid argument, but the mode itself is not an argument. The logical form presented by a syllogistic mode is the reason for the particular argument's formal validity. In this function the modes can be used to check the validity of arguments. 
In  the  two  other  ways  in  which  modes  and  ordinal  numbers  are employed the ordinals seem to stand in for assertibles and the modes are used  as  abbreviations  of  particular  arguments  rather  than  as  argument forms.  In  the  analysis  of  complex  syllogisms,  for  purposes  of  simplicity and lucidity, ordinals may stand in for simple assertibles, in the sequence of their occurrence in the argument (S.E.  M  viii.235-7). And in the so-called
'mode-arguments' (λογο!τροποι) the constituent assertibles are given in full when first occurring, but are then replaced by ordinal numbers, as in If it is day, it is light. 
Now the first. 
Therefore the second. 
Here, too, the function is mainly one of abbreviation (D.L. vii.77). There are however a couple of pertinent questions on which the texts provide no 129 See above, p. 103. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   s t o i c s
131
unambiguous  information.  First,  it  cannot  be  made  out  with  certainty what kind of assertibles may correspond to the ordinals in the modes. On the  one  hand,  in  all  our  sources  the  ordinals  correspond  exclusively  to simple a√rmative assertibles. This holds even in those cases in which the illustrative arguments are indemonstrables with negative or non-simple assertibles as constituents in the leading premiss, such as
If both  p  and  q,  r; but not: r; therefore not: both  p  and  q.130
On the other hand, two Chrysippean book-titles imply that one and the same  argument  can  be  classified  in  several  modes  (D.L.  vii.194). 
Chrysippus may - but need not - have maintained that examples like the above could be classified not only in the mode
If both the first and the second, the third; 
but not the third; 
therefore not both the first and the second. 
but also in the mode
If the first, the second; but not the first; therefore not the second. 
A related point is the question of whether there was one (typical) mode for every basic type of indemonstrable, that is, one that fits all first indemonstrables, one that fits all second indemonstrables etc. Alternatively, there could have been several (typical) modes for each type of indemonstrable; that  is,  as  many  as  there  are  subtypes.  Again,  the  sources  provide  no answer; but if there were just one mode for each basic type of indemonstrable, this would raise a number of problems.131
*
For a full understanding of Stoic syllogistic it is essential to know what made Chrysippus choose the five types of indemonstrables; however, the sources do not permit a clear answer. All we are told expressly is that the indemonstrables  were  thought  to  be  evident  and  hence  not  in  need  of demonstration,  and  that  all  other  syllogisms  could  be  reduced  to  them (D.L.  vii.78;  cf.  above).  And  we  can  infer  from  the  presentation  of  the 130 Cf. S.E.  M  viii.236, quoted below, p. 140; see also Martianus Capella iv.420. I use  p,  q,  r  for a√rmative simple assertibles in this case. 
131 E.g. in the case of the third, fourth, and fifth indemonstrables, commutativity would not be catered for. For instance, how could
Either  p,  q;  q; therefore not:  p, which is a fourth indemonstrable according to the general account, fit the mode Either the first or the second; the first; therefore not the second? 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
132
l o g i c
types of indemonstrables that their evident validity is grounded on their form. No doubt the five types of indemonstrables are basic arguments and evident 'in some respects'. But so are other types of arguments. 
In which respects then are all and only indemonstrables evident? We may approach this question in the first place negatively, by listing some ways of being basic and evident which Chrysippus cannot have had in mind. First we can see that all indemonstrables (and consequently all Stoic syllogisms) relate whole assertibles, and not terms as Aristotelian syllogisms do. These latter,  which  consist  of  three  di◊erent  categorical  general  statements,132
did not count as syllogisms, let alone as evident for the early Stoics. Second, it seems that Chrysippus was not entertaining the idea of minimizing connectives. Third, Chrysippus cannot have been concerned to minimize the number of types of indemonstrables: for, with the help of the first  thema,133
second indemonstrables can be reduced to first ones (and vice versa), and fifth to fourth ones (and vice versa), and this can hardly have escaped his attention.  Fourth,  Chrysippus  seems  not  to  have  aimed  at  deducing  the conclusions  from  premisses  of  the  minimum  possible  strength.  For  any conclusion one can draw by means of a first or second indemonstrable (with a leading premiss 'If  p,  q'), one could also draw from a corresponding third indemonstrable (with a leading premiss 'Not: both  p  and not: q'). The extra requirement in the truth-criterion for the conditional - compared with the negated  conjunction  -  that  is,  the  element  of  conflict,  seems  completely irrelevant to the conclusions one can draw in Chrysippus' syllogistic. 
For a conjecture as to what Chrysippus' positive criteria were it may help to consider the following points: in the indemonstrables - and consequently in all syllogisms - all and only the Chrysippean connectives ('and', 
'if ', 'or') and the negation ('not') are used to construct non-simple assertibles.  Among  these  non-simple  assertibles  Chrysippus  distinguished  a particular  class  entitled  'mode-forming'  or  'grounding  assertibles'
(τροπικο'ν  α0ξι!ωµα).  These  were  apparently  conditionals,  disjunctions and  negated  conjunctions.134 All  the  indemonstrables  have  as  leading premiss such a 'mode-forming' assertible. 
On the assumption that Chrysippus restricted the connectives to those mentioned above, the way the Stoics thought about the indemonstrables 132 A paradigm form is  modus Barbara: A holds of every B; B holds of every C; therefore A holds of every C. 
133 See below, p. 138. 
134 Later logicians, in particular Peripatetics, would refer to such premisses as 'hypothetical propositions'  (υ/ποθετεκαι' προτα!σει).  Accordingly,  they  often  called  standard  Stoic  arguments
'hypothetical', as opposed to the Aristotelian 'categorical' ones. This use of 'hypothetical' is not to  be  confused  with  Stoic  'hypothetical  sayables'  and  'hypothetical  arguments',  see  above, p. 122 and Bobzien 1997a. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   s t o i c s
133
may have been like this. Of all non-simple assertibles, the mode-forming ones stand out in that they permit the construction of formally valid arguments. In the most basic cases they make it possible to infer, with a simple assertible as co-assumption, another simple assertible as conclusion. Thus one obtains exactly the five types of indemonstrables, with all the above-mentioned subtypes. Perhaps the deductive power of the indemonstrables was somehow thought to be grounded on the mode-forming assertibles. 
But  still,  why  single  out  the  valid  arguments  composed  of  a  mode-forming premiss and two simple assertibles? There are certainly other syllogisms that are fairly short and simple. What the indemonstrables seem to have in common (and not to share with others) is that no one could reasonably doubt their validity, simply because understanding the connectives that are used in their leading premisses implies knowing the validity of  the  corresponding  forms  of  the  indemonstrables.  (Understanding
'Not: both  p  and  q' implies knowing that if one of them holds, the other does  not;  understanding  'If   p,  q'  implies  knowing  that  (i)  if   p  holds,  so does  q,  and (ii) if  q  doesn't hold, neither does  p; and understanding 'Either p  or  q' implies knowing that (i) if one of them holds, the other does not, and (ii) if one of them does not hold, the other does.)
This kind of criterion would for instance fail the following two candidates for indemonstrability, although they are simple and evident in some ways:
 p,  q, therefore  p  and  q
would  not  rank  as  an  indemonstrable  since  understanding   p  does  not imply knowing that if  q  then ' p  and  q'. And If  p,  q; if  q,  r; therefore if  p,  r would not rank as an indemonstrable since understanding 'if  p,  q' does not imply knowing that if 'if  q,  r', then 'if  p,  r'. 
*
The situation is slightly complicated by the fact that Chrysippus talked about a syllogism which he called 'fifth indemonstrable with several <disjuncts>' (ο/ πε!µπτο δια' πλειο!νων α0ναπο!δεικτο) (S.E.  PH  i.69). It is of the  following  kind  (S.E.  PH  i.69;  cf.  PH  ii.150;  M  viii.434;  Phlp.  APr. 
246.3-4):
Either  p  or  q  or  r
Now, neither  p  nor  q
Therefore  r. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
134
l o g i c
Its form obviously di◊ers from the form of the fifth indemonstrables as given above, which have two disjuncts only in their leading premiss. Some have thought, therefore, that this is a Stoic complex argument, to be analysed into two fifth indemonstrables. However, such a reduction does not work.  Syllogisms  of  this  form  cannot  be  reduced  in  Chrysippus'  system.135 This might have been the reason why Chrysippus regarded such arguments as indemonstrables. However, as the name implies, he did not introduce them as 'sixth indemonstrables'; rather they are a special version of the fifth, that is, they  are  fifth indemonstrables. 
If we take this seriously, we have to revise our understanding of the fifth indemonstrable. In line with the account we should assume that the leading premiss in a fifth indemonstrable has two-or-more disjuncts, and that the 'basic idea' which one grasps when one understands the disjunctive connective is 'precisely one out of several' rather than 'precisely one out of two'.  This  understanding  of  the  major  premiss  of  the  fifth  indemonstrables  has  the  consequence  that  one  also  has  to  modify  one's  understanding of the co-assumption: its description 'the contradictory of one of its disjuncts' becomes a special case of 'the contradictory of one-or-more of its disjuncts', the added possibility coming down to 'the conjunction of the negation of all but one of them'. There was a standard way of expressing such co-assumptions, namely by 'neither . . . nor . . .' (ου3τε . . . ου3τε . . .) (e.g. S.E.  PH  i.69; cf.  PH  ii.150;  M  viii.434; Phlp.  APr. 246.3-4). 
If Chrysippus allowed non-simple conclusions in indemonstrables, we could have a further kind of 'syllogism with several disjuncts' in the case of the fourth indemonstrables - which, too, is irreducible in Chrysippus'
syllogistic:
Either  p  or  q  or  r . . .;  p; therefore neither  q  nor  r. . .  .136
There  could  also  be  third  'indemonstrables'  with  three  or  more  conjuncts.137 However these would be analysable into indemonstrables. 
*
In Cicero and a number of later Latin authors we find a list of seven basic syllogisms which most probably is of Stoic origin (Cic.  Top. 53-7; Boeth. 
 Cic.Top.  355-8;  Martianus  Capella  iv.414-21;  Cassiod.  Inst.  ii.3.13).  In addition,  we  find  mention  of  basic  syllogisms  other  than  Chrysippus'
indemonstrables in Galen (Gal.  Inst. Log. v.3-4; vi.7; xv.1-11; cf. xiv.4-8; 135 For the Stoic method of reduction see below, pp. 137-48. 
136 Cf. Gal.  Inst. Log.  xv.9. 
137 Cf. Cic.  Top. 54. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   s t o i c s
135
10-11)  and  in  a   scholium  to  Ammonius  (ΣAmmon.  APr.  xi.3-4;  13-36). 
They, too, may be of Stoic origin. Most of these texts adopt the Peripatetic terminology and refer to the basic syllogisms as hypothetical syllogisms. 
The  presentation  of  the  list  of  seven  varies  slightly  from  one  source  to another,  but  the  first  five  types  tend  to  correspond  closely  to  the Chrysippean indemonstrables.138
Di√culties arise with the sixth and seventh types of argument. Both have a negative conjunction with two conjuncts as leading premiss; they are of the kinds
Not: both  p  and  q; now  p; therefore not: q (6th)
Not: both  p  and  q; now not: p; therefore  q (7th)
The problem is obvious: the sixth looks exactly like a Chrysippean third indemonstrable  whereas  the  seventh,  as  it  stands,  is  patently  invalid.  If one wants to make sense of them, perhaps the best guess is that the sixth and seventh basic syllogisms were those with pseudo-disjunctions as leading premiss.139 For, with one exception, the additional basic hypothetical syllogisms in Galen and in the scholium are all of that kind, and several later sources suggest they are or should be formulated as (negated) conjunctions.140
*
Not  all  Stoic  syllogisms,  or  formally  valid  arguments,  are  indemonstrables. Non-indemonstrable syllogisms can be more complex than indemonstrables in that they have more than two premisses; but they can also have just two premisses. For example, in our sources we find Stoic non-indemonstrable syllogisms of the kinds:
If both  p  and  q,  r; not  r;  p; therefore not: q (S.E.  M  viii.234-5) If  p,  p; if not: p,  p; either  p  or not: p; therefore  p (S.E.  M  viii.281, 466) If  p, if  p,  q;  p; therefore  q (S.E.  M  viii.230-2). 
The Stoics distinguished and discussed a number of special cases of syllogisms, both indemonstrable and non-indemonstrable. First, there is the class of indi◊erently concluding arguments (α0διαφο!ρω περαι!νοντε); as example we get
138 Cf. Ierodiakonou 1993a. 
139 For the Stoic pseudo-disjunction see above, p. 110. 
140 Cf.  Gal.  Inst.  Log.  v.1  (παραπλη!σιον  διεζευγµε!ν )  and  xiv.6  and  11  for  the  sixth  indemonstrable and Ap. Dysc.  Conj. 219.18-19 and  Digesta Iustiniani Augusti  34.5.13. § 6 for the seventh (cf. also Phlp.  APr. 246.5-6). Perhaps the leading premiss of the seventh was originally
'Not: both not:  p  and not:  q' and the second and third negation dropped out in the process of copying - as has been suggested by Becker 1957b, 47. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
136
l o g i c
Either it is day or it is light. 
Now it is day. 
Therefore it is day. (Apul.  Int. 201.4-7; Alex.  Top. 10.10-12) This argument is of the kind
Either  p  or  q;  p; therefore  p. 
The name of these arguments is presumably based on the fact that it is irrelevant for their validity what comes in as second disjunct. Often mentioned in tandem with the indi◊erently concluding arguments are the so-called  'duplicated  arguments'  (διαφορου!µενοι  λο!γοι)  (Apul.  Int.  201. 
4-7; Alex.  Top. 10.7-10;  APr. 18.17-18). It seems that their name rests on the fact that their leading premiss is a 'duplicated assertible', that is, composed of the same simple assertible, used twice or several times (Cf. D.L. 
vii.68-9; S.E.  M  viii.95, 108). The standard and only example is If it is day, it is day. 
Now it is day. 
Therefore it is day. 
It is of the kind
If  p,  p;  p; therefore  p
and is a special case of the first indemonstrable. It is uncertain whether the use of the negation of the simple assertible was allowed, e.g. whether this argument was duplicated:
Either  p  or not: p;  p; therefore  p. 
Such  an  example  occurs  in  Alexander  ( APr.  19.3-10)  but  it  is  not  called duplicated.141
A third type of syllogism were those with two mode-forming premisses (οι/ δια' δυ!ο τροπικω4ν), that is, arguments composed of two mode-forming  assertibles  as  premisses  and  a  simple  assertible  as  conclusion:  the examples we get are of the kind
If  p,  q; if  p, not: q; therefore not: p. 
A Stoic example is
141 The Aristotle commentators characterized both the indi◊erently concluding arguments and the duplicated ones as those in which one premiss is identical with the conclusion, and usually argued that this fact is the reason why they were not syllogisms (Alex.  APr. 18.12-18; Ammon. 
 APr. 28.9-13; Phlp.  APr. 33.23-6). They seem to have been unaware of their special characteristics and as a consequence the two types seem to have occasionally been confounded (ΣArist. 
 Top. 294b23-9 Brandis). 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   s t o i c s
137
If you know that you are dead, you are dead. 
If you know that you are dead, not: you are dead. 
Therefore not: you know that you are dead. (Orig.  Cels. vii.15) A related type of syllogism is that with three mode-forming premisses: the examples are all of the kind
If  p,  p; if not:  p,  p; either  p  or not: p; therefore  p (S.E.  M  viii.281, 466), that is, containing only one constituent assertible (and its negation), used several times. Generally, such syllogisms may have been of the kind If  p,  q; if  r,  q; either  p  or  r; therefore  q. 
This is a simple constructive dilemma, which was used, for example, in paradoxes. The examples in Sextus would then be a special case of this kind.  (A  passage  in  Alexander  ( APr.  164.27-31)  suggests  that  the  Stoics distinguished further types of syllogisms.)
*
Arguments  of  all  these  kinds  were  syllogisms.  And,  since  Diogenes reports that all syllogisms are either indemonstrable or can be reduced to indemonstrables  (D.L.  vii.78),  this  means  that  -  if  they  were  not  indemonstrables themselves - these arguments, too, could be reduced to indemonstrables. The Stoic expression for reducing arguments was to analyse (α0ναλυ!ειν)  them  into  indemonstrables  (D.L.  vii.195;  Gal.  PHP
ii.3.188-90; S.E.  M  viii.235; 237). What is the purpose of such a reduction or analysis (α0να!λυσι)? It is a method of proving that certain arguments are syllogisms or formally valid, by showing how they stand in a certain relation to indemonstrables. This relation between the argument-to-be-analysed and the indemonstrables is basically either that the argument is a composite of several indemonstrables, or that it is a conversion of an indemonstrable, or that it is a mixture of both. The analysis or reduction was carried out by means of certain logical meta-rules which determined these relations.  They  were  called   themata (θε!µατα),  sometimes  translated  as
'ground-rules'.  They  were  argumental  rules,  i.e.  rules  that  can  only  be applied  to  arguments.  They  reduce  arguments  to  arguments,  not,  say, assertibles to assertibles.142 Our sources suggest that there were four of them (Alex.  APr. 284.13-17; Gal.  PHP  ii.3.188 De Lacy). We know further that  the  Stoics  had  some  logical  meta-rules,  called  'theorems'
(θεωρη!µατα),  which  were  relevant  for  the  analysis  of  arguments  (D.L. 
142 Cf. on this point Corcoran 1974b and Bobzien 1996. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
138
l o g i c
vii.195;  S.E.  M  viii.231;  PH  ii.3;  cf.  Orig.  Cels.  vii.15.166 -7).  Since  the themata  were regarded as su√cient for the analysis of all non-indemonstrable syllogisms (D.L. vii.78), the function of some of the theorems was presumably to facilitate or speed up the analysis. 
It is important to see that Stoic analysis is strictly an upwards method (to  the  indemonstrables),  rather  than  a  downwards  method  (from  the indemonstrables). Analysis always starts with a given non-indemonstrable argument, and with the question whether it can be analysed into indemonstrables by means of the  themata. There are no signs that the Stoics ever tried to establish systematically (or otherwise) what kinds of formally valid  non-indemonstrable  arguments  could  be   deduced  or   derived  from their set of indemonstrables by means of the  themata. 
Related to this point is the fact that Stoic analysis was carried through with the arguments themselves, not with argument-forms or schemata, although,  of  course,  the  analysis  depends  precisely  on  the  form  of  the arguments. This might strike one as odd, since it appears to imply that analysis had to be carried out again and again from scratch, each time the (formal) validity of a non-indemonstrable argument was in question. But this  need  not  have  been  so:  the  Stoics  seem  to  have  introduced  certain meta-rules, which would state that if an argument is of such and such a form, it is a syllogism or it can be analysed into indemonstrables in such and such a way (cf. S.E.  PH  ii.3 together with Orig.  Cels. vii.15.166-7). 
Moreover, at least in complex cases, the modes were employed in order to facilitate the reduction; that is, ordinal numbers were used as abbreviations for constituent assertibles (S.E.  M  viii.234-6).143 This abbreviation brings  out  the  form  of  the  argument  and  makes  it  easier  to  recognize which  thema  can be used. 
*
How did Stoic analysis work in detail? How did the  themata  and theorems function, that is, how were they applied to arguments? Let us look first at the first  thema. It ran:
When from two <assertibles> a third follows, then from either of them together with the contradictory of the conclusion the contradictory of the other follows. (Apul.  Int.  209.10-14)
Here - as in the case of the last three indemonstrables - a formulation is chosen that leaves the order of the premisses undetermined. The rule may be presented formally as
143 On this point see above, p. 130. Cf. also Frede 1974a, 136-44. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   s t o i c s
139
P , P Ã P
1
2
3
——————————
(T1)
P , ctrd P
1
3 Ã ctrd P2
'ctrd' stands for 'contradictory', 'Ã' for 'therefore'; P , P . . . mark places 1
2
for assertibles that function as premisses. In an application of the rule the argument-to-be-analysed  (or  the  original  argument)  would  occupy  the bottom  line,  the  syllogism  into  which  it  is  analysed  the  top  line.  For instance, if we have a non-indemonstrable argument of the kind p; not: q; therefore not: if  p,  q
this can be reduced to a first indemonstrable of the kind
If  p,  q;  p; therefore  q
by employing the first  thema  as follows: When from ' p' and 'if  p,  q' ' q' follows (this being the indemonstrable), then from ' p' and 'not:  q' 'not: if  p, q' follows (this being the non-indemonstrable argument). Or formalized: If  p,  q;  p  Ã  q
—————————
—
(T1)
 p;  not: q  Ã not: if  p,  q
In all cases in which such a procedure leads to one of the five indemonstrables, the original argument is a syllogism. 
By using the rule on all possible kinds of simple non-indemonstrable arguments, one obtains four new types of syllogisms, namely those of the kinds (with the indemonstrables into which the arguments are analysed in brackets)
 p, not: q  Ã not: if  p,  q
(first or second)
 p,  q  Ã not: either  p  or  q
(fourth)
not  p, not  q  Ã not: either  p  or  q (fifth)
 p,  q  Ã both  p  and  q
(third)
These arguments may be called 'simple non-indemonstrable syllogisms'. 
In  fact,  no  such  arguments  are  handed  down.  As  will  be  seen,  the  first thema  can be used in one and the same reduction in combination with one or more of the other rules of analysis; it can also be employed several times in the same reduction.144
*
144 For the analysis of some arguments with more than two premisses a more general version of the first thema is required; a passage in Galen ( Inst. Log.  vi.5) suggests that there was such a rule. It could have run: 'When from two or more assertibles something follows, then from all but one of them together with the contradictory of the conclusion, the contradictory of the remaining one follows.'
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
140
l o g i c
It will be helpful to consider the meta-rule which was known as a 'dialectical  theorem'  (S.E.  M  viii.231)  before  the  discussion  of  the  remaining three  themata. This theorem presumably did the same work as the second, third,  and  fourth   themata  together.145 Sextus  preserves  the  rule,  which ran simply:
When  we  have  (the)  premisses  which  deduce  some  conclusion,  we potentially have that conclusion too in those premisses, even if it is not expressly stated. (S.E.  M  viii.231)
As it stands, this theorem does not fully determine a method of analysis. It is only a general presentation of a principle. But the Sextus passage illustrates how the analysis works, by applying it to two arguments (S.E.  M
viii.230-8). In the second example the analysis is carried out first with the mode of the argument, then by employing the argument itself. Let us look at the former, which begins by presenting the mode of the argument-to-be analysed:
For this type of argument is composed of a second and a third indemonstrable, as one can learn from its analysis, which will become clearer if we use the mode for our exposition, which runs as follows. 
If the first and the second, the third. 
But not the third. 
Moreover, the first. 
Therefore not: the second. 
For since we have a conditional with the conjunction of the first and the second as antecedent and with the third as consequent, and we also have the contradictory of the consequent, 'Not: the third' we will also deduce the contradictory of the antecedent, 'Therefore not: the first and the second', by a second indemonstrable. But in fact, this very proposition  is  contained  potentially  in  the  argument,  since  we  have  the  premisses from which it can be deduced, although in the presentation of the argument it is omitted. By putting it together with the remaining premiss, the first, we will have deduced the conclusion 'Therefore not: the second' by a third indemonstrable. Hence there are two indemonstrables, one of this kind
If the first and the second, the third. 
But not: the third. 
145 This can be inferred from the facts that it allows reduction of the same arguments as the so-called 'synthetic theorem' which was used by the Peripatetics (cf. Mignucci 1993, 218-21), and which in turn did the work of the second to fourth themata (Alex.  APr. 284.10-17). We are told that Antipater facilitated Stoic analysis (Gal.  PHP  ii.3.190). Perhaps it was he who introduced the synthetic or the dialectical theorem. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   s t o i c s
141
Therefore not: the first and the second. 
which is a second indemonstrable; the other, which is a third indemonstrable, runs like this
Not: the first and the second. 
But the first. 
Therefore not: the second. 
Such is the analysis in the case of the mode, and there is an analogous analysis in the case of the argument (S.E.  M  viii.235-7). 
The general procedure of reduction by means of the dialectical theorem then is as follows: take any two of the premisses of the argument-to-be-analysed and try to deduce a conclusion from them, by forming with them an  indemonstrable.  Then  take  that  'potential'  conclusion  and  look whether by adding any of the premisses, you can deduce another conclusion, again by forming an indemonstrable. (The old premisses are still in the game and can be taken again, if required, as is plain from Sextus' first example, S.E.  M  viii.232-3.) Proceed in this manner until all premisses have been used at least once and the last assertible deduced is the original conclusion. In that case you have shown that the original argument is a syllogism. 
Thus,  the  dialectical  theorem  turns  out  to  be  a  rule  for  chain-arguments by which a complex non-indemonstrable is split up into two component arguments. The theorem should su√ce to analyse all composite arguments, i.e. all arguments with any of the following as underlying or
'hidden' structures. (A triangle gives the form of a simple two-premiss argument with the letter at the bottom giving the place of the conclusion. P1 . . . Pn give the places of the premisses, C that of the conclusion of the  argument-to-be-analysed;  Pn* that of a premiss that is a 'potential conclusion'  and  hence  does  not  show  in  the  argument-to-be-analysed. 
The  type  of  argument-to-be-analysed  has  been  added  underneath  each time.)
type (1)                (three premiss arguments)
P1
P2
P3*
P4
C
P
Ã
1, P2, P4
C
The argument in the above quotation for instance, is of this type. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
142
l o g i c
type (2)    (four premiss arguments)
type (2a) P1
P2
type (2b)
P1
P2
P3
P4
P5*
P3
P5*
P6*
P6*
P4
C
C
P
Ã
1, P2, P3, P4
C
One can analyse all the expansions of these types which one gains by adding  further  two-premiss  syllogisms  which  have  one  of  the  explicit  premisses  as  conclusions.  These  conclusions  would  thereby  become
'potential', i.e. would no longer appear in the argument to be analysed, and would accordingly get an '*'. As is clear from Sextus' first example of analysis (S.E.  M  viii.232-3), the dialectical theorem also covers inferences in which the same premiss is implicitly used more than once, but occurs only once in the original argument. The most basic type of these is: type (3)
P1
P2
P3*
P2*
C
P
Ã
1, P2  C
Sextus' first example, which is of the kind 'If  p, if  p,  q;  p  Ã  q', is of this type. 
A more complex case is
type (4)
P
P
1
P2
1*
P3
P4*
P5*
C
P
Ã
1, P2, P3  C
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   s t o i c s
143
Again, all expansions and variations of these types, and moreover all their combinations  with  type  (1)  can  be  analysed  by  repeated  use  of  the theorem. If one takes together the first  thema  and the dialectical theorem, with their help at least all Stoic syllogisms of which we know can be analysed into Stoic indemonstrables. 
*
Next I consider the second, third, and fourth Stoic  themata. Formulations of the third  thema  have survived in two sources (Simp.  Cael. 237.2-4; Alex. 
 APr. 278.12-14). The second and fourth are not handed down. However, a tentative reconstruction of them and of the general method of analysis by means of the  themata  is possible, since there are a number of requirements which these three  themata  have to satisfy; they are:
- the second, third, and fourth  themata  together should cover the same ground as the dialectical theorem146
- the  themata  have to be applicable, in the sense that by using them one can actually find out whether an argument is a syllogism
- they have to be simple enough to be formulated in ordinary Greek 
- the  second   thema,  possibly  in  tandem  with  the  first,  is  said  to  reduce among others the indi◊erently concluding arguments and the arguments with two mode-premisses147
- the third and fourth  themata  should show some similarity or should be used together in some analyses (Gal.  PHP  ii.3.188 De Lacy). 
The following is a reconstruction which satisfies these requirements reasonably well.148
*
The two formulations of the third  thema  that have survived in Alexander and in Simplicius present in fact two di◊erent versions of it. Alexander has
When from two <assertibles> a third follows, and two external assumptions  syllogize  one  of  the  two,  then  the  same  <i.e.  third>  one  follows from the remaining one and the external ones that syllogize the other. 
(Alex.  APr. 278.12-14)
146 See previous note. 
147 Gal.  PHP  ii.3.188  De  Lacy;  Alex.  APr.  164.27-31.  For  these  kinds  of  arguments  see  above, pp. 135-7. 
148 For details of this reconstruction of Stoic analysis see Bobzien 1996; for alternative reconstructions cf. Frede 1974a, 174-96 and Ierodiakonou 1990, 60-75. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
144
l o g i c
And Simplicius reads
When from two <assertibles> a third follows, and from the one that follows  <i.e.  the  third>  together  with  another,  external  assumption, another follows, then this other follows from the first two and the externally co-assumed one. (Simp.  Cael. 237.2-4)
Both  formulations  reveal  that,  like  the  dialectical  theorem,  the  third thema  is  a  kind  of  chain-argument  rule  which  allows  one  to  break  up  a complex argument into two component arguments. But the two versions of the  thema  di◊er essentially, in that in Alexander the assumptions or premisses that are taken 'from outside' (ε3ξωθεν) deduce one of the premisses of  an  argument  that  deduces  the  conclusion  of  the  argument-to-be-analysed; whereas in Simplicius the external premiss comes in, together with the conclusion of another inference, in order to deduce the conclusion  of  the  argument-to-be-analysed.  Formally  this  di◊erence  between Alexander and Simplicius can be made clear as follows: (P , P . . . P . . . 
1
2
3
give the places for non-external premisses, E, E , E . . . for external pre-1
2
misses, C for the conclusion of the argument-to-be-analysed). 
Simplicius' version:
P  ,  P Ã P
P  ,  E Ã C
1
2
3
3
———————————
—
P , P , EÃ C
1
2
Alexander's version: 
P  ,  P Ã  C
E  ,  E Ã P
1
2
1
2
1
———————————
—
—
P , E , E Ã C
2
1
2
By  comparing  these  versions,  one  can  see  that  they  allow  us  to  reduce exactly the same arguments, and that they di◊er only with respect to the premisses that count as 'external'.149 I assume that Chrysippus' version of the third  thema  was closer to Simplicius' version.150
For  the  analysis  of  arguments  with  more  than  three  premisses  one needs an expanded version of the third  thema, in which one of the component arguments has more than two premisses. One obtains such an expansion  if  one  modifies  Simplicius'  version  in  such  a  way  that  the  second component  argument  can  have  more  than  one  'external  premiss'.151
149 For example, one can get from Simplicius' to Alexander's version by substituting E1 for P1, E2
for P2, P1 for P3 and P2 for E. 
150 For a detailed discussion of this point see Bobzien 1996, 145-51. 
151 Chrysippus' book title 'On the <question of> which <premisses> syllogize something together with another <assumption> or with other <assumptions>' (D.L.  vii.194) - which is part of a group of titles on arguments and their analysis - might refer to the third   thema. It has 'with another  <assumption>  or  with  other  <assumptions>'  instead  of  Simplicius'  'with  another
<assumption>', that is, it would refer to a plural of external premisses. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   s t o i c s
145
Perhaps  Simplicius  mentioned  only  one  external  premiss  because  the example he uses has only one. The expanded version of the third  thema then runs:
When from two assertibles a third follows, and from the third and one or more external assertibles another follows, then this other follows from the first two and those external(s). 
Or formalized: 
(T )
P P Ã P
P  ,  E  . . .  E Ã C
3
1
2
3
3
1
n
———————————
—
—
——
—
P , P , E . . . E Ã C
1
2
1
n
There are two types of composite arguments the reduction of which is not covered by the third  thema, namely first those in which there are no 'external' premisses, but instead one of the premisses used in the first component  argument  is  used  again  in  the  second  component  argument;  and secondly those in which both a premiss of the first component argument and  one  or  more  external  premisses  are  used  in  the  second  component argument. One may conjecture that the remaining two  themata  covered these two cases. They hence could have run:
the second  thema:
When from two assertibles a third follows, and from the third and one (or both) of the two another follows, then this other follows from the first two. 
formalized:
(T )
P  ,  P Ã P
P  , (P , ) P Ã C
2
1
2
3
1
2
3
————————
—
————
——
—
P , P Ã C
1
2
the fourth  thema:
When from two assertibles a third follows, and from the third and one (or both) of the two and one (or more) external assertible(s) another follows, then this other follows from the first two and the external(s). 
formalized:
(T )
P  ,  P Ã P
P  ,  P  , (P , ) E  . . .  E Ã C
4
1
2
3
3
1
2
1
n
———————————
—————
—
———
P , P , E . . . E Ã C
1
2
1
n
Each of the second to fourth  themata  thus has a typical kind of argument to which it applies; but they can also be used in combination or more than once  in  one  reduction.  Going  back  to  the  types  of  arguments  distinguished  when  discussing  the  dialectical  theorem  one  can  see  that  arguments of type (1) take the third  thema  once; those of types (2a) and (2b) Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
146
l o g i c
take  it  twice.  More  complex  ones  -  without  implicitly  multiplied  premisses - take it more often. Arguments of type (3) take the second  thema once; those of type (4) take the fourth and third each once. More complex arguments may take combinations of the second, third, and fourth  them-
 ata. Occasionally the first  thema  is needed in addition. Taken together the second, third, and fourth  themata  cover precisely the range of the dialectical theorem. 
*
How were the  themata  applied? Before I describe the general method of analysis,  here  are  a  few  examples.  First,  take  again  the  second  example from  the  Sextus  passage  (S.E.  M  viii.230-8,  used  there  to  illustrate  the dialectical theorem). The argument-to-be-analysed is of the kind If both  p  and  q, r; not: r;  p Ã not: q. 
It has three premisses and takes the third  thema  once. By simply 'inserting' this argument into the  thema  we obtain:
When from two assertibles
i.e. If both  p  and  q; not: r
a third follows
i.e. not: both  p  and  q
(by a second indemonstrable)
and from the third and an external one
i.e  p
another follows
i.e. not:  q, 
(by a third indemonstrable)
then this other
i.e. not:  q
also follows from the two assertibles and the external one. 
Or, using the formalized version of the  thema:
If both  p  and  q, r; not: r Ã not:both  p  and  q  Not:both  p  and  q;  p Ã not: q
———————————
——————————————————————— (T )
3
If both  p  and  q, r; not: r;  p  Ã not: q Examples of the use of the second  thema  we obtain from some of the special  types  of  non-indemonstrable  arguments.  Indi◊erently  concluding arguments like
Either it is day or it is light. 
Now it is day. 
Therefore it is day. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   s t o i c s
147
use the second  thema  once and reduce to one fourth and one fifth indemonstrable
Either  p  or  q;  p Ã not: q  Either  p  or  q; not: q Ã  p
———————————
———————————
—
(T2)
Either  p  or  q;  p Ã  p
Syllogisms with two mode-premisses like those of the kind
If  p,  q; if  p, not: q; therefore not: p take the first  thema  twice, the second once and reduce to two first indemonstrables. The analysis works again step by step from the bottom line (a) to the top line (d):
(d)
 p, if  p, not: q Ã not: q
————————————
———
(T1)
(c)
If  p,  q;  p Ã  q p,  q Ã not: if  p, not: q
————————————
———
(T )
2
(b)
If  p,  q;  p Ã not: if  p, not: q
————————————
———
(T )
1
(a)
If  p,  q; if  p, not: q  Ã not: p In general then, the method of analysis into indemonstrables by means of the  themata  appears to have worked as follows. In a very first step, you check whether the argument-to-be-analysed, or original argument, happens to be an indemonstrable. If so, it is valid. If not, the next thing to do is to try to pick from the set of premisses of the argument-to-be-analysed two  from  which  a  conclusion  can  be  deduced  by  forming  an  indemonstrable with them. 
If the original argument is a syllogism, this conclusion, together with the remaining premiss(es) (if there are any), and/or one or both of the premisses  that  have  been  used  already,  deduces  the  original  conclusion  -
either by forming an indemonstrable or by forming an argument that by use of the four  themata  can be analysed into one or more indemonstrables. 
Hence you see whether one of the remaining premisses plus this conclusion yields the premisses to another indemonstrable (in which case you apply  the  third   thema);  if  there  are  no  remaining  premisses,  or  none  of them works, you look whether one of the premisses already used in the first  step  is  such  a  premiss  (in  which  case  you  apply  the  second  or  the fourth  thema). 
If the second component argument thus formed is an indemonstrable too, and all premisses have been used at least once and the last conclusion Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
148
l o g i c
is the original conclusion, the analysis is finished, the original argument a syllogism.  If  not,  the  same  procedure  is  repeated  with  the  argument which  is  not  an  indemonstrable  (i.e.  the  second  component  argument, which has the original conclusion as conclusion); and so forth until the premisses of the second component argument imply the original conclusion by forming an indemonstrable with it. 
If at any point in the analysis no indemonstrable can be formed, the first thema  might help: namely if the negation of the conclusion would produce a premiss you need, i.e. a premiss which together with one of the available premisses makes up a pair of premisses for an indemonstrable. If at any step the application of none of the  themata  leads to two premisses that can be used in an indemonstrable, the argument is not a syllogism. 
This method of reduction is practicable and easy. All one has to know is the  themata  and the five types of indemonstrables, plus those four types of simple arguments which can be reduced to indemonstrables. The number of steps one has to go through is finite; they are not very many, even in complex cases. The method appears to be e◊ective, the system decidable. 
*
Stoic syllogistic is a system consisting of five basic types of syllogisms and four  argumental  rules  by  which  all  other  syllogisms  can  be  reduced  to those of the basic types. In Sextus Empiricus ( PH  ii.156; 157; 194) we find Stoic  claims  that  can  be  understood  as  the  assertion  of  some  kind  of completeness  in  their  logical  system.  We  learn  that  the  valid  non-indemonstrable arguments have the proof of their validity from the indemonstrables  (194),  that  the  indemonstrables  are  demonstrative  of  the validity of the other valid arguments (156) and that those other arguments can be reduced (α0ναφε!ρεσθαι) to the indemonstrables (157). 
The implication that the proof of the validity of the non-indemonstrables  is  given  by  reduction  is  confirmed  by  Diogenes  (D.L.  vii.78)  who reports that all syllogisms are either indemonstrables or can be reduced to indemonstrables  by  means  of  the   themata.  We  may  then  assume  that  the claim of 'completeness' in Sextus is that (at least) all non-indemonstrable syllogisms can be reduced to indemonstrables by the  themata (or by related theorems). One could take this as the - trivial - claim that the  themata (or theorems) lay down or determine whether an argument is a syllogism. But this is unlikely. Rather, we should assume that the Stoics had - independently  of  the   themata -  some  pretechnical  notion  of  syllogismhood,  and that the indemonstrables plus  themata  were devised in order to 'capture'
this notion; perhaps also to make it more pellucid and precise. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   s t o i c s
149
This is a plausible assumption. It leaves us with the following problem: how can we find the independent Stoic criteria for syllogismhood? that is, how can we decide which peculiarities of the Stoic system preceded their choice of logical rules and which peculiarities are simply a result of their introducing these rules? The paucity of evidence does not allow us to fully answer  this  question.  A  fortiori,  we  cannot  decide  whether  the  Stoics achieved completeness, i.e. were successful in devising their rules in such a way that they adequately covered their pretechnical notion of syllogismhood; and consequently, whether they were successful in demonstrating the completeness of their syllogistic. 
Still, it is possible to determine a number of features of the Stoic system that are relevant to its completeness, and thus to narrow down considerably  the  number  of  possible  interpretations  of  what  completeness  they wanted.  It  is  safe  to  assume  that  the  Stoic  system  shared  the  following condition  of  validity  with  modern  semantic  interpretations  of  formal logic: it is necessary for the validity of an argument that it is not the case that its premisses are true and its conclusion is false. Accordingly, it is a necessary condition for formal validity (syllogismhood) that no syllogism or argument of a valid form has true premisses and a false conclusion. To this we can add a number of necessary conditions for Stoic syllogismhood which are not requirements for formal validity in the modern sense, and which show that the class of Stoic syllogisms can at most be a proper subclass of valid arguments in the modern sense. 
First, there is a formal condition which restricts the class of syllogisms not by denying validity to certain arguments, but by denying the status of argumenthood  to  certain  compounds  of  assertibles.  Stoic  syllogistic  is interested in formally valid  arguments, not in  propositions  or  sentences  that are logically true. And their concept of argument is narrower than that of modern logic: an argument must have a minimum of two premisses and a conclusion. That is, Stoic syllogistic considers (tests etc.) only arguments of the form
∆Ã A
in which ∆ is a set of premisses with at least two (distinct) elements. Stoic syllogistic does not deal with arguments of the forms
Ã A
AÃ B
or
∆ Ã. 
A  consequence  of  this  is  that  there  is  no  one-to-one  correspondence between  valid  arguments  and  logically  true  conditionals.  Such  a  correspondence  exists  only  between  a  proper  subclass  of  the  latter  -  those Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
150
l o g i c
which have the form 'If both A and B and . . ., then C' - and valid arguments.152
Second, there is the restriction of validity through the requirement of non-redundancy of the premisses:153 an argument is invalid according to redundancy if it has one or more premisses that are added to it from outside and superfluously (S.E.  M  ii.431). For cases of non-indemonstrable arguments one may interpret the clause 'from outside and superfluously'
as  meaning  that  there  is  no  deduction  in  which  this  premiss,  together with the others of the argument, deduces the conclusion.154 The requirement of non-redundancy leads to the exclusion, for instance, of the following kinds of arguments from being syllogisms:
 p;  q; therefore  p
If  p,  q;  p;  r; therefore  q although they are valid in all standard propositional calculi. 
A third restriction known to us - independently of the  themata - concerns the wholly hypothetical 'syllogisms'. (Their prototype is 'If  p,  q; if  q, r; therefore if  p,  r'.) There are some hints that the Stoics considered such arguments as valid but not as syllogisms.155 We do not know whether this restriction  was  part  of  the  Stoic  pretechnical  notion  of  a  syllogism,  or whether these arguments were excluded because they were not analysable in the system. 
In  addition  to  these  three  requirements  the  Stoics  apparently  maintained  that  an  argument  cannot  have  two  identical  premisses.  That  is, compounds of assertibles of the form
∆, A, AÃ B
were, it seems, considered as a non-standard way of putting the argument
∆, AÃ B, 
that is, as an argument in which the same premiss is stated twice rather than in which two premisses of the same form and content are stated.156
152 For instance, although any conditional of the form 'If A, A' is true for the Stoics, there is no valid argument of the form 'AÃ A', since no compound of assertibles of that form is an argument. 
153 For redundancy see above, p. 125. 
154 So the premiss 'Either  p  or not:  p' is not redundant in the argument 'If  p,  p; if not:  p,  p; either  p or not:  p; therefore  p' since there is a deduction of the conclusion in which it is used. Namely when one considers the argument as a special case of the simple constructive dilemma. 
155 Cf. for instance Frede 1974b, n. 5 (b) and (c); see also Alex.  APr. 262.28-31. For the status of wholly hypothetical 'syllogisms' in Stoic logic see above, p. 133 and below, p. 156. 
156 At least this is implied by a passage in Alexander (Alex.  APr. 18.2-7), which is most certainly Stoic, and which maintains that an 'argument' of the form 'A, not: not: AÃ B' is in actual fact of the form 'AÃ B', and hence no argument at all. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   s t o i c s
151
Hence  there  can  be  no  'structural  rules'  which  allow  us  to  indiscriminately eliminate or introduce doublets of premisses - as there often are in rule-deductive systems. 
We are now in a position to examine whether the Stoic system of syllogisms, as containing indemonstrables and  themata, captures the - at least partly - pretechnical notion of syllogismhood as determined by the three requirements  stated. And  we  can  see  that  their system does not permit reduction of any of the arguments that are precluded by them from being syllogisms. First, no one- or zero-premiss arguments are reducible, since every indemonstrable has two premisses, and every  thema  can be applied only  to  arguments  with  two  or  more  premisses.  Secondly,  redundant arguments cannot be reduced: the indemonstrables have no 'redundant'
premisses, and the  themata  require that all premisses of the argument-to-be-analysed are components of the indemonstrables into which it is analysed - either as premiss or as negation of a conclusion. Thirdly, no wholly hypothetical 'syllogisms' are indemonstrables, nor can they be reduced to indemonstrables; for the last three  themata  require that one splits o◊ one two-premiss  argument  each  time  they  are  used,  and  this  two-premiss argument  must  contain  at  least  one  simple  proposition,157 because  it must be either an indemonstrable itself or reducible into one by the first thema. And any reduction to an indemonstrable by means of a single application  of  the  first   thema  also  requires  that  the  argument-to-be-analysed contains at least one simple proposition. So far then Stoic syllogistic coincides with what might have been their pretechnical concept of syllogismhood.158
 7: Arguments valid in the specific sense
Finally, the second group of valid arguments distinguished by the Stoics, the arguments called 'valid in the specific sense' or 'specifically valid' (D.L. 
vii.78). The surviving information on these arguments is sparse and many details are under dispute. At least two subclasses were distinguished. One were the so-called 'subsyllogistic arguments' (υ/ποσυλλογιστικοι' λο!γοι), 157 Or a substitution instance of a simple proposition. 
158 Can we state positively what the claim of completeness could have been? Maximally, the claim could have been that the class of arguments that either are indemonstrables themselves or can be analysed into indemonstrables by means of the  themata  contains precisely all arguments of the form '∆Ã A', with ∆ ⫽ {P1 . . . Pn} and n ≥ 2, which (i) because of their form can never have true premisses and a false conclusion, (ii) contain - as relevant to their form - only the Stoic logical constants 'not . . .', 'either . . . or . . .', 'if . . . then . . .', 'both . . . and . . .', (iii) contain no premiss doublets and no redundant premisses, and (iv) are not wholly hypothetical, and (v) are, or are composed of, nothing but self-evidently valid arguments. Perhaps a proof of this kind of completeness is possible. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
152
l o g i c
another  the  arguments  named  'unmethodically  concluding'  (α0µεθο!δω
περαι!νοντε). There might have been a third group; there might have been more. How was the validity of the specifically valid arguments explained or  justified?  At  D.L.  vii.79  we  read  that  all  (valid)  arguments  were  constructed by means of the indemonstrable syllogisms. If we take this at face value,  the  validity  of  the  specifically  valid  arguments  might  have  been grounded  on  or  justified  by  the  validity  of  syllogisms.  This  justification one would expect to vary from subclass to subclass. 
*
Only  two  short  passages  explicitly  talk  about  subsyllogistic  arguments (Alex.  APr. 84.12-14; Gal.  Inst. Log. xix.6), and a further passage briefly discusses them without naming them (Alex.  APr. 373.28-35). From these texts it emerges that a subsyllogistic argument di◊ers from a corresponding  syllogism  only  in  that  one  (or  more)  of  its  component  assertibles, although being equivalent to that in the syllogism, diverges from it in its linguistic form. Examples are of the types
' p' follows from ' q'; but  p; therefore  q. (Alex.  APr. 373.31-5) instead of a first indemonstrable and
It is false that 'both  p  and  q'; but  p; therefore not:  q. (D.L. vii.78) instead  of  a  third  indemonstrable.  We  may  assume  that  the  reason  why subsyllogistic arguments were not syllogisms was that they did not share their  canonical  form.  This  distinction  displays  an  awareness  of  the di◊erence between object- and meta-language: a conditional is indeed not the same as a statement that one assertible follows from another. The validity of a subsyllogistic argument might have been established by constructing a corresponding syllogism and pointing out the equivalence to it.159
The unmethodically concluding arguments are slightly better attested.160
Stoic examples are:
Dio says that it is day. 
But Dio speaks truly. 
Therefore it is day. 
159 Training in recognizing which kinds of assertibles were equivalent to which seems to have been part of some Hellenistic logic courses (cf. Gal.  Inst. Log.  xvii.5). The manuscript text of the first Galen passage mentioned (Gal.  Inst. Log. xix.6) is corrupt. It can be read as implying that the Stoics distinguished a further class of specifically valid arguments which were linguistic mutations of syllogisms. Cf. Barnes 1993d, 38-43; 52. 
160 Gal.  Inst. Log.  xix.6; Alex.  APr. 21-2; 68-9: 345-6;  Top.14-15; [Ammon.]  APr. 70.11-15; Phlp. 
 APr. 35-6. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   s t o i c s
153
and
It is day. 
But you say that it is day. 
Therefore you speak truly.161
These arguments, as they stand, are not Stoic syllogisms. They are neither indemonstrables nor can they be reduced to them. For they contain no non-simple assertible as component. What was the reason for their validity?  Perhaps  they  were  dubbed  'unmethodically  concluding'  because there is no formal method of showing their validity; but even then their validity must have been justified somehow - and if we take the remark at D.L. vii.79 seriously, these justifications should have involved some suitably related syllogisms. 
We have no direct evidence for a way of detecting 'corresponding syllogisms', as in the case of the subsyllogisticals. One foolproof method is of course to add as leading premiss a conditional formed by the conjunction of the premisses as antecedent and the conclusion as consequent (and to conjoin the former premisses). For instance, add:
( p  and  q->  r) If you say that it is day and you speak truly, then it is day. 
to the conjunction of the premisses and the conclusion
( p  and  q)
You say that it is day and you speak truly. 
( r)
Therefore it is day. 
This  operation  makes  any  argument  into  a  syllogism,  namely  into  a Chrysippean  first  indemonstrable.  But,  obviously,  this  cannot  be  the method devised to justify the validity of the unmethodicals. For it would equally work for invalid arguments. 
Still, this might be a step in the right direction. First, Chrysippus used just such a first indemonstrable (with 'it is light' instead of 'it is day') in the discussion of the Liar,162 as a parallel argument to
If you say that you are lying and you speak truly, you are lying. 
But you say that you are lying and you speak truly. 
Therefore you are lying.163
161 Alex.  APr. 345.24-30; 22.17-19. The first example occurs with 'you' instead of 'Dio' in Gal.  Inst. 
 Log.  xvii.2. 
162 For the Stoic discussion of this paradox see below, p. 165. 
163 Cic.  Acad. ii.96. Equally, the second example is parallel to the second argument of the paradox of the Liar, cf. [Acro]  Scholia vetustiora in Horatii Epist. ii.1.45 (⫽  FDS  1215):  dico me mentiri et mentior verum igitur dico; see also Placidus  Liber Glossarum  95.14 (⫽  FDS  1217). The liar might thus have provided the context in which these examples arose. Cf below, p. 166. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
154
l o g i c
So after all, there is some indication that the Stoics adduced syllogisms that correspond to unmethodicals.164 Still, the Stoics must have ensured somehow that invalid arguments could not be justified as valid by forming a parallel syllogism with such a conditional added as leading premiss. To achieve this they might simply have stipulated that the added conditional must be true. For the truth of a conditional formed by the conjunction of the premisses of an argument as antecedent and the conclusion as consequent is nothing but the Stoic general criterion for the validity of an argument.165
But  we  are  still  left  with  the  question:  what  was  the  ground  for  the validity  of  the  unmethodicals?  For,  although  the  conditional,  if  added, makes the unmethodical into a formally valid argument, it does not provide a reason or explanation for its validity. The reason for the validity -
and for the truth of the added conditional - should rather be the truth of one or more 'universal' assumptions on which the argument is based, and which have not been made explicit in the argument. And indeed Galen reports that the Stoic Posidonius called at least some of the unmethodicals
'concludent on the basis of the power of an axiom' (Gal.  Inst. Log. xviii.8). 
Moreover,  both  Alexander  (e.g.  Alex.  APr.  344-5)  and  Galen  ( Inst.  Log. 
xvii.1-4) state that the arguments the Stoics call unmethodicals depend on some universal statement or principle. Now it is likely that they took over the idea of an implicit universal assumption from the Stoics together with  the  category  of  unmethodicals.  For  the  Stoics,  universal  propositions are standardly formulated as conditionals.166 In our example a plausible candidate for such a universal would be:
( u) If  someone  says  something  and  that  thing  obtains,  that  one  speaks true. 
However,  note  that  if  one  actually  added  such  a  Stoic  universal  to  an unmethodical,  one  would  not  get  a  formally  valid  argument  or  syllogism; and that there is no reason to think that the Stoics wanted it to be added. 
An argument would then be unmethodically concluding if the following requirements are fulfilled:167 a corresponding syllogism can be constructed  by  adding  a  conditional  formed  with  the  conjunction  of  the premisses as antecedent, the conclusion as consequent. This conditional must  be  true,  and  it  is  true,  since  the  unmethodical  argument  is  valid. 
However,  it  does  not  provide  any  reason  for  the  argument's  validity. 
164  Pace  Barnes 1990a, 81. 
165 See above, p. 123. 
166 See above, p. 113. 
167 For di◊erent views see Frede 1974a, 121-3; Barnes 1990a, 78-81. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   s t o i c s
155
Rather, the ground for its validity is the truth of some universal assumption which is not made explicit in the argument. 
*
There are a number of arguments which were regarded as valid by some Stoics, some of which might have been counted as specifically valid arguments. 
There are first Antipater's single-premiss arguments (µονολη!µµατοι). 
The orthodox Stoic view was that arguments must have at least two premisses. However, Antipater admitted single-premiss arguments, and he presumably regarded at least some of them as valid. If we trust Apuleius, Antipater adduced arguments like
You see. 
Therefore you are alive. (Apul.  Int. 20 0.15-18)
Another example is 'You are breathing. Therefore you are alive' (Alex.  Top. 
8.19). What reasons he had for admitting such arguments, we are not told. 
But it is unlikely that Antipater proposed that these arguments were syllogisms (as Alex.  Top. 8.16-17 has it). For they are certainly not valid in virtue  of  their  form.  Thus  Antipater  might  have  thought  of  them  as unmethodically  concluding,  perhaps  with  a  non-explicit  assumption  of the kind 'If someone is breathing, that one is alive.'168
Secondly, there are the arguments with an indefinite leading premiss and a definite (or middle) co-assumption, which were mentioned earlier in the context of non-simple assertibles.169 Chrysippus' work 'Of arguments  constructed  from  an  indefinite  and  a  definite  <premiss>'  (D.L. 
vii.198) may have dealt with such arguments. A typical example is If someone walks that one moves. 
This man walks. 
Therefore this man moves.170
Despite the similarity, this is not a straightforward first indemonstrable, as would be
If Plato walks, Plato moves. 
Plato walks. 
Therefore Plato moves. 
168 Cf.  Alex.  Top.  8.20-22  where  '<someone>  who  is  breathing  is  alive'  (ο/ α0ναπνε!ων  ζ%4) and
'Everyone who is breathing is alive' (πα4 ο/ α0ναπνε!ων ζ%4) are given as alternative reasons for the concludency of the single-premiss argument: the first is a later Stoic non-standard formulation of universals, the second is Peripatetic. 
169 Above, p. 114. 
170 Aug.  Dial. iii.84-6 Pinborg; cf. Cic.  Fat. 11-15. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
156
l o g i c
Preoccupied with linguistic form as the Stoics were, they must have noticed this. So if they did not simply smuggle such arguments into the class of syllogisms, how did they justify their validity? Presumably by referring to the truth-conditions of the leading premiss. Since its truth implies the truth of all subordinated assertibles, one can always derive the particular conditional one needs('If thisone walks, thisone moves') and thusform the needed syllogism, in this case a first indemonstrable. This relation between the indefinite conditional and the corresponding definite and middle ones might have been counted as an implicit assumption by which validity was justified (but which if added would not make the argument formally valid). 
For similar reasons one may conjecture that Stoic arguments of the kind If someone φ's,  p; this one φ's; therefore  p 171
were regarded as unmethodically concluding. 
Although it is unlikely that the early Stoics discussed Aristotelian logic, later Stoics were confronted with Peripatetic forms of arguments, in particular with categorical 'syllogisms' and wholly hypothetical 'syllogisms'.172
We know that some 'moderns' (νεω!τεροι) - who may well have been Stoics
- claimed that the unmethodically concluding arguments resembled categorical 'syllogisms' (Alex.  APr. 345.13-17). 
For  the  Stoics,  following  their  policy  concerning  the  formulation  of universal statements, an argument in  modus Barbara
'A  holds  of  every  B;  B  holds  of  every  C;  therefore  A  holds  of  every  C' 
becomes:
If something is A, that thing is B. 
If something is B, that thing is C. 
Therefore, if something is A, that thing is C. 
This is still not a Stoic syllogism. So, if anything, categorical 'syllogisms'
could only have had the status of specifically valid arguments. 
There is no direct evidence that the Stoics discussed wholly hypothetical 'syllogisms', i.e. arguments of the type
If  p, then  q; if  q,  then  r; therefore if  p, then  r. 
There  are  two  such  examples  that  use  typically  Stoic  constituent  sentences.173 All one can say is that wholly hypothetical 'syllogisms' should 171 Cf. S.E.  PH  ii.141;  M  viii.313. 
172 For these kinds of argument see above, p. 150. Here I put 'syllogism' in quotes to indicate that although the Peripatetics considered them syllogisms, presumably the Stoics did not. 
173 ΣAmmon.  APr. xi.1-3: Alex.  APr. 374.23-35. Ironically, the latter is employed to discredit this type of argument. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   s t o i c s
157
not have counted as syllogisms, since they cannot be analysed into indemonstrables by the  themata. One would expect them to have been mentioned,  had  they  been  regarded  as  syllogisms.  But  if  the  Stoics reformulated   modus  Barbara  in  the  way  suggested,  and  considered  the resulting arguments valid, they must also have considered wholly hypothetical 'syllogisms' as valid. 
 8: Paradoxes
In  the  Stoic  classification  of  arguments  sophisms,  the  ancient  counterparts of modern paradoxes, are put under the head of false arguments. A false argument is an argument which either has something false in its premisses or is formally incorrect (D.L. vii.79). What makes a false argument a sophism is that its conclusion is evidently false and it is not clear on what the falsity of the conclusion depends (Gal.  Pecc. Dig. v.72-3). As Sextus explains, in a sophism we are solicited to approve a clearly false conclusion by having endorsed premisses which look plausible and seem to yield the unacceptable conclusion (S.E.  PH  ii.229). 
To understand the meaning of this characterization it must be remembered that sophisms are supposed to be part of a (real or fictitious) discussion. One is asked to accept some propositions from which an overtly false conclusion is derived, and in this way the answerer is left in the embarrass-ing position of admitting a completely unacceptable statement. The many situations described by Plato in the  Euthydemus  caricature this sort of context. 
This account explains the role that, according to the Stoics, dialectic should play regarding sophisms. It should not only distinguish sophistical from good arguments but also be able to solve them by showing what is  wrong  with  them  in  such  a  way  that  any  embarrassment  is  dispelled (S.E.  PH  ii.229, 232). Their being classified among false arguments o◊ers an indication of what one must look for in solving them: either the conclusion does not follow from the premisses or at least one of the premisses is false. 
The Stoic characterization of paradoxes looks traditional and reminds us of the Aristotelian definition of contentious deductions at the beginning  of  the   Topics (10 0b23-6).  This  impression  is  reinforced  by  Galen when he points out that sophisms resemble true arguments and stresses that a trained dialectician, being acquainted with good arguments, can easily detect and solve bad ones (Gal.  Pecc. Dig. v.73). Quintilian echoes this way  of  thinking  when  he  reports  that  a  training  in  solving  paradoxes  is part of the formation of the Stoic wise man because he cannot be mistaken even in trifles (Quint.  Inst. i.10.5), and so does Seneca when he dismisses Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
158
l o g i c
people who consume their time in examining the Liar paradox ( Ep. 45.10). 
Even apart from this practice, the general definition of a sophism seems to reflect the style of the Platonic-Aristotelian tradition rather than the role that  paradoxes  played  in  the  philosophical  debate  with  which  the  early Stoics were confronted. We will see in a moment that the picture is much more complicated than one might expect. 
*
Our sources o◊er a rather confused report of a classification of paradoxes. 
According  to  Diogenes  Laertius  sophisms  are  first  divided  into  those depending  on  utterance  and  those  depending  on  states  of  a◊airs  (D.L. 
vii.43-4). This distinction reminds us of the division of refutations into refutations  depending  on  language  and  refutations  independent  of  language,  which  constitutes  the  leading  distinction  of  Aristotle's  treatise dedicated to paradoxes (Arist.  SE  165b23-4.). Nothing is said about the Stoic sophisms depending on utterance but we may guess that they had to do  with  language  and  ambiguity,  and  the  analysis  of  amphibology reported by Galen may give an idea of the way in which they were presented.174
We have no definition of the second group of sophisms either, but a list of them is given, which includes some of the most important and famous paradoxes such as the Liar, the Sorites, the Veiled Man, the Horned Man, the Not-someone, the Mower.175 Diogenes' list is interrupted in its middle by a di◊erent classification of sophisms, according to which they may be either defective or aporetic or concludent. It is not clear what Diogenes hints at by defective and concludent arguments. Probably, there is here the  superimposition  of  two  di◊erent  and  possibly  unrelated  classifications of sophisms. This impression is reinforced by the fact that Diogenes elsewhere mentions among the aporetic arguments paradoxes which are here distinguished from the aporetic ones.176 Moreover, Cleanthes dedicated  a  work  to  the  aporetic  arguments  and,  more  conspicuously, 174 Gal.  Soph.  xiv.595-8. See also Atherton 1993. 
175 D.L. vii.44. Diogenes' list is interesting for at least two reasons. The names of the arguments are in the plural (ψευδοµε!νου λο!γου, αωρι!τα ε0γκεκαλυµµε!νου, κερατι!να and so on), and  this  may  be  taken  as  an  allusion  to  di◊erent  versions  of  the  same  argument.  Moreover, beside the 'Lying arguments', other less-known arguments are quoted, i.e. Truth-telling arguments (α0ληθευ!οντα <λο!γου>) and Denying arguments (α0ποφα!σκοντα <λο!γου>). There are reasons to believe that these are versions of the Liar (cf. Clem.  Strom. v.1.11.6 and Epict.  Diss. 
iii.9.21). 
176 Among the aporetic arguments D.L. vii.82 lists the versions of the Veiled Man, the Disguised Man,  the  Sorites,  the  Horned  Man  and  the  Not-someone  arguments,  while  Luc.  Symp.  23
quotes as aporetic the Horned Man, the Sorites and the Mower. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   s t o i c s
159
Chrysippus is reported to have written an  On the Aporetic Arguments of the Dialecticians  in five books.177
It might be that the Stoics had a technical and refined definition of aporetic  arguments.  Late  sources  hint  at  complicated  characterizations  of arguments where the aporetic ones seem to be to some extent related to the presence of a vicious circle of the sort which occurs in the Liar paradox.178 But there is no evidence that this classification of paradoxes goes back to the early Stoics, and it seems to be based on external and logically unimportant features of the arguments involved.179 At any rate, the terminology of 'aporetic argument' seems to be old. The Greek α3πορον was translated by Cicero as  inexplicabile 180 and in the Latin medieval tradition as  insolubile. This does not mean that ancient logicians, and in particular the Stoics, were pessimistic about the solution of some paradoxes. The number of works dedicated by Chrysippus to the Liar paradox may show that in some cases he was not happy with his own solution, but not that the  Liar  or  any  other  important  paradox  was  considered  unsolvable  by him. The aporetic character ascribed to certain sophisms depended primarily  on  the  impression  they  made  on  people  to  whom  they  were directed. Aporetic arguments were those in which it is very di√cult for the answerer to see where the fallacy lies, since both the premisses and the logic of the argument appear to be acceptable, although something wrong is derived. In the very end it may be that the di√culty for the answerer to get  free  of  the  paradoxes  becomes  a  di√culty  also  for  the  experienced logician who tries to solve the paradoxes and detect their fallacies. But it is not  because  of  this  that  some  paradoxes  received  their  qualification  of aporetic.181
*
It is su√cient to describe briefly the puzzles mentioned by Diogenes to be aware  that  the  Stoics  dealt  with  the  most  di√cult  paradoxes  that  have intrigued philosophers and logicians ever since. At least two di◊erent versions  of  the  Veiled  Man  are  known.  In  the  more  popular  one,  Callias  is asked whether he knows that Coriscus is a cultivated person. When Callias answers a√rmatively a veiled man is shown to him so that Callias cannot 177 D.L.vii.175 and 198. 
178  Rh. Gr.  iv, 154.2-25 and vii, 1.163.4-19. 
179 It may be interesting to observe that some of the arguments logically related to the Liar paradox are labelled by Gellius (v.10.1-16) as 'convertible arguments'. 
180 Cic.  Acad. ii.95. 
181 This interpretation is indirectly confirmed by Alexander of Aphrodisias (fr. i.91.1-4, text in Vitelli 1902) where he says that if one both claims that an argument is about aporetic material and gives a solution of it, then the argument is aporetic not in itself but with respect to the skilfulness of the listener. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
160
l o g i c
recognize him and say whether he is cultivated or not. Since it turns out that the veiled man is Coriscus the conclusion is drawn that Callias both knows and does not know that Coriscus is cultivated.182 The puzzle is well known to modern logicians and it has to do with substitutivity in opaque contexts. Eubulides, a disciple of Euclid of Megara, is said to have dealt with this paradox,183 and Aristotle discusses it ( SE  179a33◊.); but there is no testimony to the way in which the Stoics faced it, although we know that Chrysippus dedicated to it a treatise in two books (D.L. vii.198). 
Among the titles of Chrysippus' works we find also a treatise on the Disguised  Argument  (Περι' του4 διαλεληθο!το,  D.L.  vii.198),  and  the hypothesis has been made that it does not refer to a version of the Veiled Man but to a puzzle, hinted at by Plutarch, concerning the wise man who, on the one hand, can hardly be aware of being such from the very beginning of his being wise, and, on the other hand, should not be unaware of his  state  since  he  is  wise  (Plu.  Virt.  Prof.  75c-e).  But  the  fact  that  a Disguised  Argument  is  mentioned  among  the  puzzles  considered  by Eubulides (D.L. ii.108) and referred to in connection with Timon (Clem. 
 Strom. v 1.11.5) points to an origin which is outside Stoic philosophy and o◊ers  reason  to  consider  it  as  a  version  of  the  Veiled  Argument,  as  the Electra evidently is.184
Another  argument  mentioned  by  Diogenes  is  the  Not-someone (Ου3τι). It is not clear why such a name was given to this puzzle185 but its content is described by several sources in more or less the same way. As Diogenes puts it (D.L. vii.82), it consists of two premisses one of which is an  indefinite  and  the  other  a  definite  assertible  and  one  of  its  possible forms is as follows:
If anyone is in Athens, he is not in Megara
Man is in Athens
——————————————
——————
Man is not in Megara186
where 'Man' must be taken as a general term denoting a particular entity. 
Interpreted in this way the argument is sound,187 and the false conclusion 182 [Alex.]  SE  125.13-18. 
183 D.L. ii.108. However, D.L. ii.111 attributes the Veiled argument to Diodorus Cronus. 
184 For the Electra see Luc.  Vit. Auc.  42-3. Before having recognized Orestes Electra knew and did not know her brother. 
185 Simp.  Cat.  105.7-20 and Phlp.  Cat.  72 not. crit. ad lin. 4 have di◊erent explanations. Remember however that a concept for the Stoics is a Not-something (ου3 τι): D.L. vii.61. See below, 411. 
186 This is Simplicius' formulation ( Cat. 105.7-20). See also Elias  Cat. 178.1-12. 
187 For this reason I do not think that we need to change συνακτικο! into συναπτικο! in D.L. 
vii.82, as Frede 1974a, 57 n. 10 has suggested. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   s t o i c s
161
simply shows that a general term cannot be taken as referring to a particular. It has been suggested that the puzzle was used by the Stoics to prove that  the  Platonic  conception  of  universals  is  false.188 We  know  that Chrysippus dealt with it in at least two, and possibly three, works (D.L. 
vii.197). 
The Horned Argument was famous among the Ancients and its paternity has been attributed both to Eubulides or to Diodorus Cronos.189 Its formulation is very simple and consists of the following argument: If you have not lost something, you have it
You have not lost horns
—————————————
You have horns190
Gellius has an interesting point about this puzzle, which looks quite naive especially in comparison with the others. He claims that the argument has to do with the rule of dialectical inquiry according to which one should not answer in a way that is di◊erent from the way in which the question is put. But this rule cannot be observed in the case of the Horned Argument otherwise one cannot escape the conclusion. To the question: 'Does one have what one has not lost?' the answer cannot simply be 'Yes' or 'No'. To get  free  from  the  Horned  Argument  one  should  rather  answer:  'I  have everything I had, if I have not lost it.' But in this way the answer is not simple (Gell. xvi.2.1-13). 
Far more interesting is the Liar paradox. We will discuss later the formulation that the Stoics favoured. For the present it is su√cient to point out that various versions of it were known. One popular variant of it was the so-called Crocodile. A crocodile kidnaps a child and he proposes the following pact to its parent: I will give you back your child if you guess what I intend to do with him. If the parent says that the crocodile will eat the child, then he cannot have his child back. But the same happens if he chooses the other horn of the dilemma. Therefore, he will never get his child back (Luc.  Vit. Auc.  41-2). The same holds in the case of the daughter of  a  seer  taken  by  bandits.191 It  is  not  clear  whether  all  these  cases  are equally strong. However, they share to some extent with the proper Liar paradox what is called the self-reference of the truth value of the critical propositions implied by the arguments. 
The  traditional  ascription  of  the  Liar  paradox  to  Epimenides  has  no 188 Cf. Sedley 1985, 87-92. 
189 D.L. vii.187 and ii.111. 
190 D.L. vii.187. 
191  Rh. Gr. vii, 1. 162.11-163.1. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
162
l o g i c
support in the texts.192 Diogenes claims that this paradox was dealt with by  Eubulides  (D.L.  ii.108),  and  some  form  of  it  was  perhaps  known  to Aristotle, when he considers a series of cases in which contradictory statements appear  prima facie  to be true of the same thing. He claims that the problem  can  be  solved  by  distinguishing  di◊erent  aspects  or  senses according to which the predicates are true of their objects. The same solution is applied by him to the case of a person who promises that he will not keep his oaths and to the case of a person who apparently at the same time tells  the  truth  and  a  falsity  (Arist.  SE  180a23-b7).  However,  Aristotle should not have had in mind the real paradox as it is formulated today and as the Stoics probably thought of it, otherwise his solution would have been clearly inadequate. 
The Sorites, which we will discuss later, was also known to Eubulides (D.L. ii.108). It has sometimes been claimed that this paradox was known to Zeno of Elea when he stated that if a bushel of grain makes a noise falling from a given distance, then any part of it however small must make a noise. But Aristotle's criticism makes it clear that what is in question is Zeno's  belief  in  a  law  of  proportionality,  which  has  no  relation  to  the Sorites (Arist.  Phys. vii.250a19-25). 
*
It is a common view that Eubulides proposed his paradoxes without trying to solve them and his approach is normally contrasted with the Stoic attitude  where  a  strong  attempt  at  solving  them  can  be  detected.  This opinion  is  connected  with  another  view  according  to  which  Eubulides had  invented  his  paradoxes  to  show  that  the  world  of  experience  is contradictory  or  that  plurality  is  inconsistent,  according  to  the  Eleatic positions  to  which  his  master,  Euclid,  subscribed.  This  picture  looks attractive, but there is no evidence to support it. We do not know on what assumptions Eubulides' interest in the paradoxes was based nor is it clear what use he made of them. It may be that he invented and discussed them just for their own sake and this view fits the picture that Sextus gives of him by putting him in the company of those who cultivated only logic among the philosophical disciplines (S.E.  M  vii.13). 
Although we cannot say what use Eubulides made of the paradoxes he invented,  subsequent  philosophers  became  increasingly  aware  of  their importance  in  philosophical  debate.  Diodorus  Cronus,  a  pupil  of Eubulides, surely used and debated some of the paradoxes he heard from 192 Cf. the texts assembled at DK 3 b1 and Mates 1961, 84. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   s t o i c s
163
his  master,  and  he  passed  them  to  Arcesilaus  and  the  Academics,  who applied  them  against  the  Stoics.193 The  Academics  used  the  Sorites  to undermine  the  Stoic  distinction  between  apprehensive  and  non-apprehensive presentations (S.E.  M  vii.415-21), and, according to Sextus, they had recourse to the Veiled argument to the same e◊ect ( M  vii.410). The Stoics  themselves  exploited  paradoxes  to  criticize  other  philosophical positions, as the case of the Not-someone argument shows. 
It  is  plausible  to  think  that  the  Stoics  formulated  some  of  their  doctrines with an eye to avoiding paradoxes. It is a characteristic Stoic view that a man who becomes wise achieves this state instantaneously, that is, by performing a single virtuous action. Before this last performance he is just  as  vicious  as  every  non-wise  man  (Plu.  Comm.  Not.  1063a-b).  This strange and extreme doctrine, according to which Plutarch can ironically say that the Stoic wise man is the man who was the worst in the morning and becomes the best in the evening (Plu.  Virt. Prof.  75d-e), is probably the  result  of  protecting  the  distinction  between  wisdom  and  vice  from soritical attack. If the border-line between the two states is sharp, in the sense that there is a fixed point which makes the non-wise wise, 'being wise'  is  not  a  soritical  predicate,  i.e.  it  cannot  be  treated  in  the  way  in which a predicate such as 'few' can be treated, and therefore no soritical argument can be brought against it. 
Paradoxes were used as powerful weapons in philosophical debate and this helps to explain Chrysippus' concern for them. He had to deal with them to defend the major points of his philosophy from Academic attacks. 
However, to account for the astonishing number of works that he dedicated to paradoxes, as is shown by the catalogue of his writings,194 one must probably consider also the interest that he had for them as a logician. 
There are clues that Chrysippus was to some extent aware of the formid-able logical and philosophical problems which lay behind some of the paradoxes. 
*
We cannot analyse all the paradoxes dealt with by the Stoics, and we shall examine in some detail only two of them, the Liar paradox and the Sorites. 
What is probably the oldest formulation of the Liar can be found in Cicero: Clearly  it  is  a  fundamental  principle  of  logic  that  what  is  pronounced (this is what they call 'assertible' (α0ξι!ωµα), that is ' ecfatum') is either true 193 Sedley 1977, 89-96. 
194 D.L. vii.196-8. Sections five to nine of the logical writings are dedicated to paradoxes. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
164
l o g i c
or false. Then, are the following assertibles true or false: 'If you say you are  speaking  falsely  and  you  tell  the  truth  about  it,  you  are  speaking falsely *** you are telling the truth'? You claim that these assertibles cannot be explained. (Cic.  Acad.  ii.95)
The  personal  pronoun  'you'  at  the  end  of  the  translation  addresses the Stoics  and  we  may  think  that  the  formulation  of  the  Liar  refers directly to the Chrysippean one. ' Mentiri' is normally rendered by 'to lie', which is, of course, a possible translation. But one might also render the Latin by 'speaking falsely', as the Greek ψευ!δεσθαι which is behind the Latin  allows.  The  advantage  of  this  translation  is  that  we  avoid  all  the problems connected with the psychological act of lying. What we say by lying may be true if our beliefs are false. By taking ' mentiri' as 'speaking falsely' we are faced with the simpler situation of someone who utters false  assertibles,  and  this  is  a  necessary  condition  for  constructing  the paradox. 
Unfortunately, there is a lacuna in the text between 'you are speaking falsely' and 'you tell the truth', and it has been filled up in various ways by the editors. Three solutions have been proposed which are relevant for the philosophical understanding of the paradox:
(i)   si  te  mentiri  dicis,  mentiris  et  verum  dicis [If  you  say  you  are  speaking falsely, you are speaking falsely and you are telling the truth]195
(ii)  si te mentiri dicis idque verum dicis, mentiris <an> verum dicis? [If you say you are speaking falsely and you tell the truth about it, are you speaking falsely or telling the truth?]196
(iii)  si te mentiri dicis idque verum dicis, mentiris <et, si te mentiri dicis, idque mentiris> verum dicis [If you say you are speaking falsely and you tell the truth about it, you are speaking falsely; and if you say you are speaking falsely and you tell the truth about it, you are telling the truth].197
None of these proposals is satisfying. To get (i) one must not only add  et, but also delete  idque verum dicis, which is attested by all MSS, and this is a strange  way  to  fill  up  a  lacuna.  If  (ii)  is  adopted  it  becomes  di√cult  to understand the meaning of the expression: 'are the following assertibles true or false' which introduces (ii) since (ii) is a question and it does not make sense to ask of a question whether it is true or false. With (iii) no logical paradox arises. To prove this claim we must consider what the sen-195 On the basis of an old correction of the Codex Vossianus and by deleting ' idque verum dicis'. See Plasberg 1922,  ad loc. 
196 By analogy with Gell. xviii.2.10. Cf. Reid 1885, 290-1; Rüstow 1910, 89. 
197 For the text see Hülser 1987-8, 1708-12, following a note of Plasberg 1922,  ad loc; Barnes 1997. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   s t o i c s
165
tence by which the paradox starts refers to. Let us give a name to the 'you'
of  whom  Cicero  is  speaking  and  call  her  'Calpurnia'.  Suppose  that Calpurnia says:
(a)
 mentior [I am speaking falsely]
This assertible, like the Greek ψευ!δοµαι, may be taken to have di◊erent truth  conditions  according  to  di◊erent  situations  to  which  it  may  be related. To decide whether ( a) is true or false we must establish to what assertibles ( a) refers. It may be that ( a) refers to a finite set Φ of assertibles which does not include ( a). In this case no paradox arises and ( a) will be true if all assertibles in Φ are false and will be false if at least one of them is true. 
But it may be that the set of assertibles with respect to which we evaluate ( a) includes ( a) itself. In this case we can get a paradox if either ( a) is the only assertible uttered by Calpurnia or all assertibles in Φ are false. If Φ contains at least one true assertible, ( a) is simply false and no paradox arises. 
Let  us  now  return  to  the  passage  in  Cicero  and  assume  that  he  is spelling out a real paradox. It is hard to believe that he is considering the case that ( a) refers only to itself, because this condition is not normally meant by ( a) and it is usually added as an explicit statement by people who present the paradox in this way. Therefore, Cicero must say something to mean that the non-empty set of assertibles to which Calpurnia is referring is  entirely  constituted  by  false  assertibles.  A  little  reflection  shows  that this condition is not implied by (iii). Given that Φ is not empty the second conjunct of (iii) means:
(iii*) If you say that you are speaking falsely in all your statements and you thereby speak falsely, then you are telling the truth
and the truth of the antecedent of this conditional implies that not every statement of yours is false. From this the truth that all your statements are false, which alone makes the consequent of (iii*) true, does not follow. 
An  alternative  way  to  fill  up  the  lacuna  and  get  a  real  paradox  is  by means of:
(iv) (α)  si te mentiri dicis idque verum dicis, mentiris <et (β) , si mentiris,> verum dicis [(α) If you say you are speaking falsely and you tell the truth about it, you are speaking falsely, and (β) if you are speaking falsely, you are telling the truth]. 
From  a  palaeographical  point  of  view  the  corruption  can  easily  be explained. Moreover, (iv) represents an adequately paradoxical formulation of the Liar. Suppose as before that Calpurnia by uttering ( a) refers to Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
166
l o g i c
whatever she is saying. In (α) Calpurnia says that whatever she is saying is false and that in saying so she tells the truth. Therefore ( a) is false, being something she has said. But if all her utterances are false and she speaks falsely by stating ( a), as is stated by (β), she tells the truth about it, and consequently  ( a)  is  true.  A  contradiction  is  generated.  The  di◊erence between (iii) and (iv) is that in (iii) the two conjuncts are independent assertibles, while in (iv) the antecedent of (β) is supposed to be the same as the consequent of (α). This allows us to say that the claim that ( a) is false, as is implied in the antecedent of (β), is made under the condition that Calpurnia is saying that she is speaking falsely and that she is telling the truth. This implies that every statement di◊erent from ( a) Calpurnia may have  made  and  ( a)  itself  are  false.  Therefore,  ( a)  is  true.  The  reasoning becomes really paradoxical. 
This interpretation is confirmed by the way in which the puzzle is presented by Gellius (xviii.2.9-10). What is interesting in his formulation is that the hypothesis that I am really speaking falsely is stated first, that is, as a condition for the paradoxical assertible. In other words, Gellius states two clauses, i.e.:
( b)
I am really speaking falsely ( mentior)
and
( c)
I say that I am speaking falsely ( dico me mentiri)
These  two  clauses  are  also  present  in  other  versions  of  the  paradox.198
Why is the assumption that I am really speaking falsely made explicit? The reason, I believe, depends on the implicit interpretation of ( a). If ( a) had to be interpreted as an immediately self-referring assertible, there would be no need to add condition ( b) to get the paradox. On the other hand, by taking  ( a)  as  including  other  assertibles  di◊erent  from  ( a),  condition  ( b)  is required for the construction of the paradox. Therefore, the Gellius formulation of the Liar confirms our interpretation of the Cicero passage and the filling up of the lacuna proposed in (iv). 
Actually, after this discussion one might be tempted to propose an even more conservative version of the  Academica  text, simply reading (v)  si te mentiri dicis idque verum dicis, mentiris <et> verum dicis [If you say you are speaking falsely and you are telling the truth about it, you are speaking falsely and you are telling the truth]. 
198 Cf. [Acro]  Scholia vet. in Horatii Epist.  ii 1.45 (⫽ FDS  1215); Anon.  in SE Paraph.  25, 58.29-33
(⫽  FDS  1218). 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   s t o i c s
167
If Calpurnia utters ( a) and what she is saying is the case, in the sense that it refers to a set of false assertibles among which there is ( a) itself, then she is really speaking falsely because all assertibles to which ( a) refers are false and ( a) is one of them. But, by the same token, she tells the truth because she is really speaking falsely, it being the case that all assertibles to which ( a) refers and ( a) itself are false. The conclusion is that (iv) or (v) may be taken as a way to formulate the Stoic version of the Liar, which is a real paradox. 
*
Had Chrysippus a solution for the Liar paradox? To judge from the number of works he dedicated to the subject one has the impression that he at least attempted to give an answer to this puzzle. This impression is confirmed by a passage in Plutarch where he claims that Chrysippus' solution of  the  Liar  was  in  overt  contrast  to  some  usual  views  about  logic  (Plu. 
 Comm. Not. 1059d-e). Plutarch makes two points against Chrysippus: (i) he refused to qualify as false the conjunction of a contradictory pair, i.e. 
admitted  that  there  is  at  least  one  contradiction  (the  conjunction  of  an assertible with its denial) which is not false; (ii) he would have admitted arguments with true premisses which are sound from a logical point of view and nevertheless have false conclusions. 
*
Perhaps the first Plutarchan objection may be expanded as follows. The Liar paradox shows that the Liar's critical assertible, namely ( a)* I am speaking falsely
is, or better entails, a contradiction, since it turns out that it is at the same time  true  and  false.  However,  Chrysippus  denied  that  this  assertible  is false, and in this way he would have accepted a contradiction which is not false. The second criticism can be reconstructed along the same pattern. 
In the Liar there is a sound argument by which one can show that ( a)* is false. Chrysippus would have maintained that ( a)* is not false. In this way he would have subverted the notion of sound inference, by admitting correct inferences in which the premisses are true together with the negation of the conclusion. 
What emerges from Plutarch's arguments is that Chrysippus, possibly in contrast to other members of his school, maintained that the Liar's critical assertible, our ( a)*, cannot be qualified as false. By considering this claim in the light of the subsequent discussion of the Liar paradox in the Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
168
l o g i c
Middle Ages, we may appreciate its philosophical relevance: Chrysippus cannot be ranged among the forerunners of the so-called  restringentes, that is, the people who believed that ( a)* is a false assertible on the grounds that it yields a contradiction. From this perspective Plutarch's criticism, although clumsily constructed, has a philosophical respectability. 
Shall  we  range  Chrysippus  among  the   cassantes,  i.e.  people  who believed that the Liar's critical statement is not an assertible because it is meaningless? This interpretation has been widely adopted and might be defended by the observation that if Chrysippus denied that ( a)* is false, he surely  could  not  have  believed  that  ( a)*  is  true.  Therefore,  he  ought  to have admitted that ( a)* is neither true nor false, so that it is not an assertible.  This  interpretation  finds  indirect  confirmation  in  Alexander  of Aphrodisias. Commenting on an Aristotelian  locus  where, by attributing a predicate to a subject, the conclusion can be drawn that the subject has contrary predicates (Arist.  Top. 113a24-32), he explicitly reports that the locus  may  be  used  to  prove  that  ( a)*  is  not  an  assertible,  since  if  one assumes that ( a)* is an assertible a contradiction follows, namely that ( a)*
is  both  true  and  false  (Alex.  Top.  188.19-28).  Unfortunately,  Alexander does  not  tell  us  who  were  the  people  who  used  this  sort  of   reductio  ad impossibile.  Clearly,  he  is  not  referring  to  the  standard  Peripatetic  view about the Liar.199 May we say that he is hinting at the Stoic view? 
This  question  seems  to  have  an  a√rmative  answer  if  we  consider Cicero's testimony. He attacks Chrysippus, with a strategy which is not very di◊erent from that used by Plutarch, by showing that his solution of the Liar is inconsistent with other major tenets of Stoic logic. His point is as follows:
If assertibles of this sort cannot be explained and for them there is no cri-terion200 according to which you can answer the question whether they are true or false, what happens with the definition of an assertible as that which is true or false? (Cic.  Acad.  ii.95)
I take 'assertibles of this sort' to refer to sentences such as ( a)*, the critical statement of the Liar paradox. If so, Cicero's text contains an important piece of information, since it implies that ( a)* not only cannot be said to be false, as Plutarch reports, but also cannot be said to be true; for otherwise it is di√cult to see why ( a)* is said to be inconsistent with the definition of 199 E.g. [Alex.]  SE  170.29◊. commenting on  SE  180b2-7. Alexander of Aphrodisias apparently had a di◊erent view (fr. i, text in Vitelli 1902). 
200 The Latin is ' iudicium' which is a translation for the Greek 'κριτη!ριον'. Elsewhere 'κριτη!ριον'
is rendered by ' terminatio' (Cic.  Fin. v.27) or ' norma' ( Acad. i.42). 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   s t o i c s
169
an assertible. This interpretation is confirmed by what Cicero goes on to say about Epicurus and the Stoics. The latter behave incoherently. On the one  hand,  they  attack  Epicurus  for  having  allowed  exceptions  to  the Principle  of  Bivalence  and,  on  the  other,  they  are  themselves  adopting the view that there are assertibles such as the Liar which are not subject to the laws of logic. Cicero is alluding to Epicurus' claim that the Principle of Bivalence admits exceptions, since it does not hold for future contingent assertibles.201 The Stoics, while criticizing Epicurus, allowed the same for another kind of assertible, namely for assertibles such as ( a)*.202
Then is Chrysippus a forerunner of the Mediaeval  cassantes? On reflection, the passage in Cicero does not warrant this conclusion. Typical of the  solution  proposed  by  the   cassantes  was  the  view  that  ( a)*  is  not  an assertible,  since  it  is  meaningless.  The  idea  which  emerges  from  the Ciceronian  passage  is  the  opposite:  while  in  Alexander  and  for  the   cas-
 santes ( a)* is not an assertible, Cicero seems to imply that the Stoics considered  it  to  be  an  assertible,  and  for  this  reason  he  finds  that  their position is inconsistent. Moreover, Cicero o◊ers a reason why Chrysippus believed that ( a)* is neither true nor false: because there is no criterion for assigning one of these truth-values to it. Of course, to make the argument work, one should not take the criterion of which Cicero is speaking to be an epistemological criterion. We cannot infer that ( a)* is neither true nor false from the fact that we do not know whether it is true or false. To make the reasoning work we must take 'criterion' as referring to the objective conditions for assigning a truth-value to an assertible independently of our  capacity  to  recognize  them.  Therefore,  what  is  implicit  in  Cicero's point is that an assertible such as ( a)* was said by Chrysippus to be neither true nor false, because there is no criterion for attributing a truth-value to it, namely because its truth-conditions are not given. 
If this interpretation is accepted it seems that the Stoic approach to the Liar contained an important idea. What makes an assertible such as ( a)*
paradoxical is not its own form or intrinsic structure, but the truth conditions  which  allow  its  evaluation.  Since  truth-conditions  may  change according  to  the  history  of  the  external  world,  it  may  happen  that  the same assertible is evaluated as false or paradoxical according to di◊erent external  situations.  Of  course,  this  approach  to  the  Liar  would  imply  a revision of the notion of an assertible, and Cicero is right in pointing to the inconsistency between the standard Stoic definition of an assertible and the Chrysippean view about the Liar. It is reasonable to think that 201 See below, pp. 517-18. 
202 Cic.  Acad. ii.97. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
170
l o g i c
Chrysippus  was  aware  of  the  problem  and  that  he  had  an  answer  to  it, even if we do not know it. 
*
Let  us  now  consider  the  case  of  the  Sorites.203 Its  name  comes  from
'σωρο!', 'heap' or 'pile', and according to Galen the argument was called this way 'after the matter which first led to this question, I mean the heap'
(Gal.  Med.  Exp.  xvi.2).  His  way  of  presenting  the  argument  probably reflects  the  way  in  which  it  originally  had  been  expounded.  Is  a  single grain of wheat a heap? The answer is: 'No'. Are two grains a heap? The answer is again: 'No'. Going on by adding one grain to the previous quantity we never reach a heap. As Galen explains, the reason why one never gets a heap is that if one denies that a certain amount of grains is a heap, one  cannot  allow  that  that  amount  plus  a  single  grain  becomes  a  heap ( Med. Exp. xvii.1-3). 
The ancient authors were well aware that the argument had a general form  and  could  be  applied  to  many  things.  For  the  same  reason  which forces  us  to  conclude  that  there  are  no  heaps,  compels  us  to  state  that there are no waves, no flocks of sheep, no herds of cattle, no open seas, no crowds.  And  for  the  same  reason  we  must  deny  that  there  is  boyhood, adolescence and manhood or seasons (Gal.  Med. Exp.  xvi.1). In the Galen text the form of the ascending Sorites is presented: even if we add millions of grains one by one to a given collection that is not a heap, we never reach a heap. The ancients knew also the descending form of the Sorites. The most famous version of it is the Bald Man. Consider a man with luxuriant hair and everybody will agree that he is not bald. Take a hair away. He is still not bald. By repeating the operation we reach a moment when our poor man has no hair at all and is not yet bald (Gal.  Med. Exp. xx.3). 
Given the variety of the forms in which the Sorites was presented, we are  entitled  to  look  for  the  logical  structure  which  is  common  to  all  of them.  The  argument  is  surprisingly  simple.  Consider  a  collection  of grains of wheat formed by one single grain. Call it  a . Clearly, it is not a 1
heap. For the sake of simplicity, omit the negative way in which the case of the heap is expressed and simply state
(1)
 F( a )
1
This assertible is supposed to be true by hypothesis. Consider now a second collection  a  formed by two grains of wheat, and a series of these col-2
203 Cf. Barnes 1982b, Burnyeat 1982b, Williamson 1994. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   s t o i c s
171
lections such that each of them di◊ers from the immediately preceding one only by having one grain more. So we get a succession of individuals (*)
<  a ,  a ,  a , . . .,  a
1
2
3
 n> 
This  succession  need  not  be  infinite.  It  is  enough  that  it  is  su√ciently large to allow us to state that, e.g., its last element is not  F (or that it is a heap in this case). Therefore, we assert
(†)
¬ F( an)
This statement is also true by hypothesis. For a su√ciently large  n  it is di√cult to deny that  an  is a heap. Thirty million grains of wheat reasonably  form  a  heap  of  wheat,  and  if  you  are  uncertain  let  us  increase  n  as much as you like. At the end we should get a heap, if there are any heaps in the world. 
To  get  the  paradox  we  need  a  second  assumption,  namely  that  in general if  aj (  j⫽1, 2,. . .,  n) is  F, then  aj⫹ is also  F. For instance, if the col-1
lection of  j  grains of wheat is not a heap, neither is the collection of  j⫹1
grains. In other words, we assume that each pair of contiguous elements of the succession (*) is constituted by elements which cannot be distinguished  as  far  as   F  is  concerned.  Call  this  thesis  the  'Indiscriminability Thesis'. We can express it by means of:
(IT) ∀ aj ( F( aj) →  F( aj⫹ )) 1
It is easy to see that by using (1) and an appropriate number of instances of (IT) we reach the negation of (†). We can construct the following argument:
(SR)
(1)
 F( a )
by hypothesis
1
(2)
 F( a ) →  F( a )
by (IT)
1
2
—————————
(3)
 F( a )
by  modus ponens
2
(4)
 F( a ) →  F( a )
by (IT)
2
3
—————————
(5)
 F( a )
3
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
( p)
 F( an⫺ )
by  modus ponens
1
( p⫹1)
 F( an⫺ ) →  F( a
1
 n)
by (IT)
—————————
( p⫹2)
 F( an)
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
172
l o g i c
Thus, we have a contradiction because ( p⫹2) is the negation of (†). The same pattern applies to the descending Sorites. 
Let us call (1) the  categorical premiss  or  assumption  of the argument and (2), (4), ( p⫹1) the  conditional premisses. Clearly, premisses such as (3), (5), ( p) are not proper assumptions of the argument, since they are obtained by  modus ponens  and may be eliminated. Let us call them the  intermediate premisses. 
(IT) does not work as an explicit premiss of the argument. It has the function of ensuring that we can rely on the conditional premisses - we need it to justify them. In this respect our reconstruction of the argument is near to the Galen text, where the idea that for each case one is allowed to assert  F
of it is justified by the remark that one single grain of wheat added to a non-heap of wheat cannot provide a heap. This is the same as our thesis (IT). 
It is obvious that neither the categorical nor the conditional premisses of  our  argument  are  logical  laws.  Their  truth,  or  at  least  plausibility, depends on the choice of predicate  F  and individuals  a ,. . .,  a 1
 n. As we have
seen, the individuals must be ordered and form a series and the predicate must apply to them. This is meant by a passage of Galen where he says that a soritical argument may be construed when we have to do with anything
'which is known from its name and idea to have a measure of extent or multitude, such as the wave, the open sea, a flock of sheep and herd of cattle, the nation and the crowd' (Gal.  Med. Exp.  xvi.1). What 'is known from its name and idea to have a measure of extent or multitude' is the soritical predicate  as  applied  to  an  ordered  series  of  individuals   a ,.  .  .,  a 1
 n.  They
must  be  such  that  a  measure  can  be  applied  to  them,  and  this  in  e◊ect means that they can be counted. There is no reason to think that soritical predicates  themselves  must  represent  quantitative  notions,204 and  our sources make it clear that purely qualitative concepts were also submitted to soritical treatment. Sextus, for instance, reports that Chrysippus had to defend the notion of apprehensive presentation from soritical attacks ( M
vii.416 -17).  What  is  peculiar  to  soritical  predicates  is  rather  that  they apply to an ordered series of individuals in such a way that they satisfy (IT). 
It should be clear that (SR) is not a single argument but a succession of arguments.  However,  a  passage  of  Diogenes  Laertius  suggests  that  the Stoics sometimes presented the Sorites in the form of a single argument. 
The version reported by him is as follows:
It is not the case that two are few and three are not also; it is not the case that these are few and four are not also (and so on up to ten thousand). 
But two are few: therefore ten thousand are also. (D. L. vii.82)205
204  Pace  Burnyeat 1982b, 318-20. 
205 Reading µυρι!ων and µυ!ρια instead of δε!κα and δε!κα. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   s t o i c s
173
We  know  that  Chrysippus  in  some  cases  reformulated  conditionals  as negated conjunctions,206 and this may mean that the Stoics took the conditionals of the Sorites as weak implications, approximately what we call
'material implications'. It may be pointed out that the type of conditional involved in the Sorites does not substantially a◊ect the logical structure of the argument. The only condition which is required to originate the paradox is that the conditional admit the application of  modus ponens. By applying this rule several times we are able to get the conclusion of (SR).207
*
Once the structure of the Sorites is exposed, it is easy to see on what its force is based. When premiss (1) and thesis (IT) are stated, the argument becomes  straightforward,  because  it  is  simply  based  on   modus  ponens, which is one of the most elementary rules of deduction. Therefore, from the point of view of logic nothing suggests that argument (SR) is formally invalid. 
On the other hand, a contradiction arises, and we must suppose that there  is  something  wrong  with  (SR).  Since  the  inconsistency  does  not apparently depend on the logic of the argument, it must depend on the premisses which are assumed. Premiss (1) seems to be based on immediate observation, and therefore can hardly be rejected. The intermediate premisses  depend  on   modus  ponens,  and  they  are  as  safe  as  their  premisses. 
Thus, we must look at one of the conditional premisses, and since they are justified by (IT) we must discharge (IT). If (IT) is false, its negation is true, and this allows us to reject one of the conditional premisses of (SR). There is a grain of wheat which makes a heap out of a collection that is not a heap, and there is a hair whose subtraction makes a non-bald man bald. 
That would be plausible if we take 'heap' to mean: 'a collection of  n  elements',  where   n  is  a  fixed  number.  Therefore,  while  a  collection  of   n-1
grains is not a heap, a collection of  n  grains is a heap. But this does not seem  to  be  the  meaning  we  attribute  to  a  word  such  as  'heap',  nor  in general to soritical predicates. These predicates are intrinsically imprecise and vague and so we may think that it is for this reason that they cannot admit the sharp treatment imposed by logic. It is only when we make the soritical predicates precise that we can avoid the paradox. 
206 Cic.  Fat. 15. 
207 If one wants to remain strictly faithful to the Stoic formulation of the argument (IT) must be presented as 
(IT)* ∀ aj¬( F( aj) ∧ ¬F( aj⫹1))
and a rule based on the third indemonstrable must be substituted for  modus ponens  to get the paradox. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
174
l o g i c
Is it along these lines that the Stoic analysis of the paradox developed? 
To answer this question we must consider the evidence at our disposal, which is rather disappointing. Comparing the Stoic attitude to paradoxes with  that  of  the  sceptics,  Sextus  says  that  in  the  case  of  a  Sorites Chrysippus  recommended us  to  refrain  from  assenting to at least some premisses put forward by the adversary (S.E.  PH  ii.253-4). The point is repeated to some extent by Sextus elsewhere ( M  vii.416) and on the same lines Cicero reports that according to Chrysippus the wise man must stop answering  before  entering  the  dangerous  area  of  the  argument  ( Acad. 
ii.93). 
There is a standard interpretation of these texts which consists in saying that after all the Sorites is a  reductio ad absurdum. Deduction (SR) ends in a contradiction. Therefore, at least one of its premisses is false, and of course this means that one of the conditional premisses is so. Since the wise man knows by logic that one of the premisses is false he must refuse to assent to it. But the predicates of the assertibles in question are to some extent vague and he is not able to locate where the false premiss lies. This is the background against which one is asked to understand Chrysippus'
suggestion: the wise man should start answering some of the clear cases and refrain from committing himself on the non-clear cases. If he does not stop soon enough he will be led to admit something false. To use Cicero's words,  the  wise  man  'like  a  clever  charioteer,  will  pull  up  [his]  horses, before  [he]  gets  to  the  end,  and  all  the  more  so  if  the  place  where  the horses are coming to is steep' ( Acad. ii.94). 
In the end, this interpretation consists in attributing to Chrysippus a denial  of  (IT),  and  this  means  that  there  are  no  predicates  which  make adjacent pairs of individuals indistinguishable and there is a magic grain of  wheat  which  turns  a  collection  of  grains  into  a  heap.  If  this  was  the Chrysippean answer to the Sorites why did he order his sage to keep silent after a few questions, and not rather suggest that he use an exact definition of the notion of a heap? One might try to answer this objection by pointing out that the notion of a heap is imprecise, not because it does not imply a limit in itself, but because nobody knows where it is. By adding grains to a collection step by step we do indeed reach a point where this collection becomes a heap, but nobody knows where this point lies. But from this perspective the objection that Cicero raises against Chrysippus is legitimate. If the wise man has to stop answering 'a little while before
[he]  come[s]  to  many'  and  withhold  his  assent  before  things  become obscure,  the  wise  man  is  compelled  to  withhold  his  assent  even  from things which are perfectly clear and safe (Cic.  Acad. ii.93-4). 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   s t o i c s
175
One could try to defend Chrysippus' position from this objection by taking his view not as an epistemic but as an ontological one. To make the point clear let us first determine what is obscure in a soritical argument. 
Cicero  clearly  says  that  the  wise  man  should  at  a  certain  moment  stop answering  questions  such  as  'Are  three  few?'  Therefore  he  must  refrain from assenting to some of the intermediate premisses of (SR). Then the whole  point  is:  on  what  does  the  obscurity  of  these  intermediate  premisses depend? The traditional answer is: it depends on one of the preceding conditional premisses, for which it is not clear whether it is true or false, although in itself it is either true or false. But to avoid the consequence that in this way the wise man is obliged to refrain from assenting to true assertibles, one could reason in a di◊erent way. The obscurity of the intermediate premisses cannot depend on the preceding conditional premisses.  It  is  for  exactly  the  same  reason  that  we  accept  that  if  two grains do not form a heap, then three grains do not form one either, and that if two million grains do not form a heap, then two million and one grains  do  not  form  one  either,  since,  to  make  the  point  with  Galen:  'I know  of  nothing  worse  and  more  absurd  than  that  the  being  and  not-being of a heap is determined by a grain of corn' (Gal.  Med. Exp. xvii.3). In this way our intuitive notion of a heap is preserved. 
The obscurity of some of the intermediate premisses of (SR) might be based on the idea that soritical predicates make the assertibles of which they are part behave in a special way with respect to truth and falsity. The idea is that to claim that one grain is not a heap of wheat is pretty true, as well as to state that, say, 10,0 0 0 grains are a heap. But what happens with, let us say, 5,0 0 0 grains? Are they a heap or not? One might claim that if saying that one grain is not a heap is completely true, to claim that 5,00 0
grains are not a heap is less true, although it is not yet completely false. 
With respect to deduction (SR) the situation might be as follows. Suppose that one is asked to admit  F( a ), e.g., that one grain of wheat is not a heap. 
1
The answer is of course: 'Yes', because  F( a ) is simply true, let us say 10 0
1
per cent true. Then take premiss (2), the first conditional premiss, which is  supposed  to  be  absolutely  true  by  the  indiscriminability  thesis.  By modus ponens  we immediately get (3),  F( a ). Now  F( a ) is also true, but per-2
2
haps a little less than  F( a ), let us say 99 per cent true. Two grains of wheat 1
are not a heap, but not as truly as before. By repeating the procedure a su√cient number of times we get assertibles which are less and less true. 
From this perspective soritical predicates admit of degrees of truth, in the sense that they are more or less true of the objects to which they apply. 
These degrees vary in a continuous way. What happens when we submit Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
176
l o g i c
assertibles formed by these predicates to the laws of logic is that the laws of logic hold, but locally, that is, in the short distance. If we apply  modus ponens  in a chain like (SR), we can safely do so only if we do not repeat the process too many times. That is all.208 It is enough to stop in due time. In due  time  for  what?  For  not  deriving  a  false  assertible,  or  an  assertible which  is  so  little  true  as  to  become  obscure,  from  completely  true  premisses.  Then  Chrysippus'  suggestion  becomes  clear:  stop  the  process before the dark precipice of assertibles which are so little true that they are  almost  false.  And  if  we  interpret  it  in  this  way,  we  can  also  answer Cicero's objection: the wise man never refrains from assenting to simply true assertibles. He is allowed to suspend his judgement when confronted by  assertibles  which  are  less  than  simply  true.  This  way  of  solving  the Sorites paradox has a price: we must give up the idea that  modus ponens preserves  truth  in  the  long  run.  Its  repeated  application  in  a  deductive chain  may  create  problems  when  soritical  predicates  are  involved.  The evidence  of  which  we  dispose  does  not  allow  us  to  ascribe  this  view  to Chrysippus.  However,  it  is  consistent  with  the  statements  that  our sources attribute to him and allows us to reject Cicero's objections. 
If we take this approach to Chrysippus' position we can conclude that his view about the paradoxes is much more modern than the view represented  in  the  Aristotelian  tradition.  His  solution  of  the  Liar  paradox requires a reform of his notion of an assertible, since he seems to admit assertibles which are neither true nor false. On the other hand, if his way out of the Sorites was based on a limitation of the range of application of modus  ponens,  it  is  not  too  bold  to  conclude  that  he  was  aware  that  an answer to the main paradoxes implies that we must give up some of our common-sense beliefs. It is  not without sacrifices that we resolve paradoxes. 
208 As is well known, it is not di√cult to give a precise semantic basis to the idea we are proposing. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
6
Language
*
d i r k   m .   s c h e n k e v e l d   a n d   j o n a t h a n   b a r n e s   ( i . 2 ) i Linguistics
 1: The study of language
In the classical period, the Greek language was studied by philosophers, sophists  and  rhetoricians,  and  the  contributions  of  Aristotle  and Theophrastus in particular are very valuable. But only in the Hellenistic era does grammar show significant development and almost becomes a discipline in its own right. Although their origin as students of poetry is never forgotten, grammarians now start to be acknowledged as teachers and scholars in the fields of phonology and morphology. To some extent they also study syntax and pragmatics, while semantics provides, as it were, their basic approach. This development is the result of the concur-rence  of  three  kinds  of  linguistic  analysis:  in  philosophy,  rhetoric  and scholarship. Students of each of these disciplines look at language from their own specific point of view and in a di◊erent context. Thus, philosophers, especially Stoics, are interested in the nature of language and its relationships to reality and knowledge, and analyse speech in the context of their study of logic, which analysis has its consequences for their physics  and  ethics.  Rhetoricians  are  more  concerned  with  ways  of manipulating people by means of language; and scholars develop tools for language analysis in order to edit and explain the texts of Homer and other poets. These di◊erent concerns greatly advance the study of language although the complete emancipation of grammar as a discipline to be  studied  for  its  own  sake,  like  mathematics,  is  not  achieved  in  this period.1
The extent of the evolution is well demonstrated by the use of the very word γραµµατικη!. To Plato τε!χνη γραµµατικη! means 'the art of putting
* J. Barnes' contribution runs from p. 193 to p. 213. 
1 Varro's approach in  De lingua latina  x ( c.  50 bc) may have been the exception; cf. D. J. Taylor 1987b, 188-9. 
[177]
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
178
l a n g u a g e
together letters'2 but to Dionysius Thrax it is '(the art of ) grammar'.3 He defines τε!χνη γραµµατικη!4 as 'the practical study of the normal usages of poets and prose writers' and distinguishes six parts, all of them related to the exegesis of literature. After him, Asclepiades of Myrlea makes a useful distinction between three parts: in the 'more special' part the grammarian is concerned with textual criticism and explanation, in the 'historical' one with  realia  and also with lexicography, while in the 'technical' part we find the  systematic  description  of  language,  'grammar'  in  the  modern  sense. 
This technical part not only describes the parts of speech (µε!ρη λο!γου), phonology included, but also looks at how to achieve correct Greek in pronunciation,  orthography  and  inflection.5 The  term  γραµµατικο! then denotes the scholar (and teacher) of grammar as well as of textual criticism and related subjects, and 'scholar' is, therefore, often a more correct modern translation than 'grammarian'.6
This  situation,  however,  is  not  reached  before  the  end  of  the  second century  bc or  even  later.  Before  this  time,  grammarians  (scholars),  like Aristophanes of Byzantium and Aristarchus of Samothrace, do not write separate  treatises  on  grammar,  and  their  grammatical  knowledge  and competence can only be inferred from their works on Homer and other authors. Rhetorical writings on e.g. tropes and figures also deal with matters  of  language.7 As  to  philosophers,  from  Epicurus  and  the  Peripatos after Theophrastus no particular works on linguistic topics are known, though Epicurus expresses some views on language in his  Letters  and also
-  at  greater  length  -  in  his   On  Nature.  8 The  Stoics  are  known  to  have treated  many  grammatical  aspects  in  a  systematic  way  in  their  τε!χναι
περι' φωνη4 and their treatises on σηµαινο!µενα are also important in this respect. In both categories we possess no originals, however, the expositions in D.L. vii being our main source. Later grammatical writings help to fill this gap only to a limited extent. 
This picture of the growth of grammar deliberately ignores the once popular view of a fundamental opposition between philosophical, largely 2 Plato  Soph. 253a,  Crat. 431e. To Aristotle ( Int. 17a6) 'questions of language, in so far as they were not of a mere logical nature, had to be relegated to rhetoric and poetics' (Pfei◊er 1968, 76). 
3 More  general  is  Eratosthenes'  definition  of  γραµµατικη! as  the  perfect  skill  in  writing,  cf. 
Pfei◊er 1968, 162. 
4  Techne-§ 1 Uhlig. The quotation in S.E.  M  i.53. proves this part to be genuinely Dionysian. From
§ 6 onwards the  Techne-  is now considered to be of later date (Kemp 1991, 307-15) and we can only guess what may have been there originally (Schenkeveld 1995, 41-52). 
5 Siebenborn 1976, 32-3. 
6 See  Pfei◊er  1968,  156-9  on  the  meanings  of  the  terms  φιλο!λογο,  κριτικο!,  and  γραµµατικο!. 
7 Most of them are now lost and have to be reconstructed with the help of later treatises. 
8 In the reconstruction of book xxviii by Sedley, 1973; see also Tepedino Guerra 1990. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
l i n g u i s t i c s
179
Stoic grammar with Pergamene grammar as its o◊shoot on the one hand, and technical, Alexandrian grammar on the other, an opposition intensified  by  an  alleged  controversy  between  analogists  and  anomalists. 
Modern research has shown that the latter controversy, if not totally an invention of Varro, was of limited importance only,9 and the topic of analogy versus anomaly will be dealt with below (p. 183) in its proper context. 
For  the  rest,  no  fundamentally  di◊erent  approaches  between  philosophers  and  grammarians  to  technical  matters,  such  as  the  distinction  of parts of speech, can be detected.10
*
The question of how language, or languages, came into being is a di◊erent one from that about the relationship, original or later, between the form and  the  meaning  of  words.  However,  the  questions  are  to  some  extent related and a view on the origin usually implies an opinion about the original relationship but not the other way round.11
About the origin of language two views prevailed. One is that language gradually and naturally (φυ!σει) evolved in a collective of men, whereas the second  opinion  is  that  some  individual  (god  or  man),  or  individuals, invented  language  and  put  names  to  things  (θε!σει). The other question about  the  relation  between  form  and  meaning  (ο0ρθοε!πεια, or ο0ρθο!τη
τω4ν ο0νοµα!των) leads either to the conviction that, at least in the original state of language, by nature (φυ!σει) forms completely agree with meanings, or to the view that this relation is fortuitous and the product of convention  (νο!µ   or  κατα' συνθη!κην).12 Connected  with  the  former position is the view that later the agreement was lost because forms were corrupted and changed. Given this view etymology helps to recover the original form and thus the true meaning of the word. 
Epicurus,  an  exponent  of  the  evolutionary  view,  distinguishes  two stages, the first being that individuals felt compelled by their feelings and impressions to utter sounds in an individual way and according to their geographical  situations.13 This  process  is  considered  a  natural  one  and 9 Blank 1982, 1-4 and Ax 1991, 289-95. 
10 Research in the history of ancient linguistics received a new impetus at the end of the fifties with the publications of Fehling 1956-7 and di Benedetto 1958-9 on the analogy/anomaly controversy  and  the  authenticity  of  Dionysius'   Techne-  respectively,  and  significant  progress  was made  from  the  seventies  onwards.  The  received  accounts  of  this  history,  like  that  of  R.  H. 
Robins 1979, are now being replaced, but a  communis opinio  has not yet been achieved. See D. J. 
Taylor 1987b, 177-88 and Schenkeveld 1990a. 
11 See Fehling 1965 on how the two questions get mixed up in antiquity, a confusion still virulent. 
12 Cf. M. Kraus 1987, 168-202 and Joseph 1990. 
13  Ep.  Hdt. 75-6; Lucr. v.1041-5 and Diog. Oen. fr. 12 Smith. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
180
l a n g u a g e
Epicurus emphatically rejects the possibility of imposition by one person. 
Arguments against the latter view are such as 'why would one person be able to do what others could not do at the same time?' However, at a second stage Epicurus accepts the imposition of words but now as an act of consensus  of  the  people  concerned.  At  this  stage  greater  accuracy  is reached and new designations are introduced. 
When speaking of the force of the feelings and the impressions which led to utterances Epicurus is rather vague.14 The greater accuracy mentioned in the second stage probably refers to the replacement of deictic forms  by  explicit  designations.  The  reference  to  di◊erent  languages with  their  own  development  alludes  to  earlier  discussions,  such  as  in Plato's  Cratylus  383, in which the existence of di◊erent languages with di◊erent names for one and the same notion was also used as an argument against the natural rightness of names and as a proof for the convention  view.  To  Epicurus  the  geographical  di◊erences  explain  the existence of linguistic di◊erences. But by speaking of 'individual feelings and impressions' and connecting these with geographical distinctions he invites the objection that it is thus impossible to translate from one language to another. This point may not have bothered him, the less so  if  the  di◊erences  he  is  talking  about  concern  those  between  Greek dialects.15
Epicurus' own account is part of the epitome of his philosophy in his Letter to Herodotus  and has no context. Lucretius o◊ers such a context by putting his description into the framework of a whole theory of the evolution of civilization, and Epicurus may have done the same. At any rate, his combination  of  a  natural  origin  for  language  with  a  subsequent  θε!σει-stage is a creative reaction to older discussions. 
*
Definite texts on Stoic views on the origin of language are lacking because they probably paid little attention to this question. From their view that a fully rational correspondence between word and meaning existed it may follow that they favoured a conscious invention of language. Its inventor, if any, is a king if Varro's theory on the fourth 'level' or 'step' of etymology ( gradus  etymologiae)  with  the  Latin  king  ( rex  Latinus)  as  its  name-giver ( impositor),16 reflects Stoic thought; but this cannot be proved. Epicurean criticism of the θε!σει-view has been explained as a reaction against such a 14 The same vagueness in Lucr. v.1028. 
15 Di◊erently on these points Hossenfelder 1991b, 221-4. 
16  LL  v.8-9. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
l i n g u i s t i c s
181
Stoic theory but can also be seen as directed against Plato's repeated use of one law-giver.17
More is known of Stoic views on the relation between form and meaning. This subject is treated  in extenso  below,18 but here a few words are in order.  The  Stoics  assume  a  direct  and  simple  mimetic  relationship between the form of words and their meaning at an original stage. As one text has it, 'according to the Stoics the first sounds are imitations of the things ( pragmata) of which the names are said'.19 This direct relationship is best illustrated by onomatopoeic words; for there meaning and signifier coincide with each other and with their referent.20 This interpretation is the accepted one but the text quoted above also allows an interpretation by which there is only a direct relation between form and referent. Some support for this exegesis seems to be found in the long discussion of Stoic etymology by Augustine, who distinguishes a category of words in which there is  a  resemblance of word to thing in   tactus, such as  mel,  lana, and vepres. However, this statement involves a neglect of the role of meanings, which would be quite un-Stoic and it seems certain that Augustine introduces  views  of  his  own.21 We  may  therefore  be  content  with  the  first interpretation. 
Even so, matters are problematic because according to Aulus Gellius, Chrysippus asserts that 'every word is ambiguous  by nature, since two or more meanings can be understood from it'.22 Because of the lack of quotation marks and other means of distinguishing between metalanguage and language  Greek  was  very  much  open  to  ambiguity.  This  fact  may  have contributed  to  Chrysippus'  statement  on  the  naturalness  of  ambiguity but it evidently is at cross-purposes with the statement that words originally imitated the things.23
For non-onomatopoeic words the principle of a natural similarity is less clear since they have been gradually corrupted.24 Already Plato refers to three modes of change in word-forms, those of adding, moving or removing a letter. After the Hellenistic period a four-stage scheme ( quadripertita 17 E.g. Lucretius v.1041-5; Diog. Oen. Fr. 12 Smith; Plato  Crat.  388e1. See Sluiter 1990, 18-20. 
18 See below, pp. 197-213. 
19 Orig.  Cels. i.24. 
20 August.  Dial. 6. 
21 August.  Dial.  6.  He  probably  misunderstands  his  source,  Varro  fr.  113  Goetz-Schoell (⫽ Diomedes  Ars gramm. ,  Gramm. Lat. i.428, 22-8); see Sluiter 1990, 35-6. 
22 xi.12.1 and August.  Dial. 9. 
23 Perhaps  Chrysippus  meant  to  say  that  every  utterance  can  fail  to  achieve  the  correct  result because the addressee misunderstands it, not that every utterance is of its nature ambiguous. 
Cf. Sluiter 1990, 127 and Atherton 1993, 298-310. 
24 August.  Dial.  6.  This  corruption  of  language  strongly  resembles  the  ethical  notion  of διαστροφη!, by which man was corrupted from a perfect rationality (D.L. vii.89). See Sluiter 1988. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
182
l a n g u a g e
 ratio) is found in various departments of grammar and rhetoric, not only for etymology.25 It is unclear whether the Stoics developed it; but some such scheme will have been used by them. 
At this point etymology enters into the discussion, a method strongly favoured  by  the  Stoics.26 The  main  task  of  etymology  is  to  explain  for what  reasons  and  how  a  word  got  its  original  form,  and  how  this  was changed - and thus to detect its true meaning.27 The term ε0τυµολογικα! 
is not found before Chrysippus28 and ε0τυµολογι!α is to all appearances a Stoic coining, by which they indicate that the search for the reason why a particular name has been given to a particular thing is related to the search for truth.29 In this process one detects the  similitudo  between word and meaning.  However,  other  principles  of  word-formation  have  also  been active, to wit  contrarium (e. g.  lucus a non lucendo) and  vicinitas, which our source, Augustine, explains by  abusio, figurative language, and for which he gives  piscina (swimming pool) as a dubious example. Taken by itself this tripartite  scheme  looks  very  Stoic,  for  resemblance  and  contrariety  are also  known  as  processes  in  the  formation  of  general  concepts;  but  one should be careful in taking the whole of Augustine's chapter as truthfully representing Stoic thought.30 Alongside this scheme the fourfold scheme of changes in words mentioned above is also applied. Application of these methods helps to bring back a particular word to a form for which the reason of its genesis can be given. Of course, the combination of these, or similar,  views  allows  the  Stoics  much  latitude  in  using  etymology  as  a means of understanding both things and words, and one will not be surprised to find the most fantastic explanations in our texts.31 But fantasy in this respect is not a specifically Stoic trait. 
A quite di◊erent matter is the position of etymology in the whole system of Stoic dialectic and specifically its relationship to their views on correct Greek. In the genuine part of Dionysius'  Techne-  etymology is one of the six tasks of the grammarian and it also plays a role in later theories on hellenism.32 But whether etymology ever had a definite place in the Stoic system we do not know.33
*
25 α0φαι!ρεσι ( detractio), προ!σθει ( adiectio), µετα!θεσι ( transmutatio) and ε0ναλλαγη! ( immutatio). 
See Ax 1987 for the origins of this scheme (Plato  Crat. 394b) and its various applications. 
26 For the relation of etymology to allegoresis see below p. 222. 
27 Varro  LL  v.2; ΣDThrax 14.23-4 and Cic.  ND  iii.62. 
28 D.L. vii.20 0 ε0τυµολογικα!. 
29 Herbermann 1991, 356-9. 
30 Fehling 1958 on Barwick 1957. 
31 Galen,  PHP  ii.2,5-7 [⫽ v.241K] criticizes Chrysippus' fondness for etymological explanations. 
32 Siebenborn 1976,140-6. 
33 Cf. Hülser 1987-8, 746-7. Too confidently Amsler 1989, 22-3. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
l i n g u i s t i c s
183
The relationship between form and meaning is also an object of debate when philosophers look at contemporary Greek, written texts of classical  authors,  like  Homer  and  the  tragedians,  included.  Here  many  discrepancies between form and meaning are to be found and Chrysippus devotes a work in four volumes to this phenomenon,  On the anomalies concerning  λε!ξει. Anomaly pertains to cases such as those where words indicating  privation  do  not  have  the  corresponding  form  (e.g.  πενι!α, 
'poverty'), and also the other way round.34 Anomaly also refers to the irregularity  of  one  single  city  being  designated  by  a  plural  form.35
According to Varro36 this theory of anomaly was wrongly transferred by Crates of Mallos to derivational and inflectional morphology when he contends  that  in  this  field  arbitrariness  reigns  and  only  ordinary  language ( consuetudo, συνη!θεια), not analogy, is to be followed. This, Varro says, he did in opposition to Alexandrian grammarians like Aristarchus, who favour analogy ( analogia) that is, they detect patterns in inflection and apply these in order to decide on doubtful forms, insofar as customary language permits this.37 Varro solves the disagreement by stating that  in  derivation  anomaly  is  pre-eminent  but  in  inflection  analogy, though common parlance plays a role of its own. In books viii-x Varro o◊ers many instances of the anomalist position, of that of the analogists, and  of  his  own  solution,  respectively.  He  mentions  Aristarchus  and Crates as the main antagonists but also refers, both in this context and elsewhere,  to  other  Hellenistic  authors.  Thus,  according  to  Varro  this quarrel was rife in the period of about 20 0-150 bc and continued up till his own time.38
Apart from Varro we have no unambiguous mention of this quarrel.39
It is wrong, therefore, to accept Varro's statement about the extent and duration of the controversy as trustworthy, and scholars should not have inferred  a  long  and  drawn  out  quarrel  between  analogists  and  anomalists.40 On the basis of some disagreement between Aristarchus and Crates and using the well-known strategy of  disputare in utramque partem  Varro either  invented  the  quarrel  or,  more  probably,  enlarged  a  dispute  on 34 These words were also discussed in Chrysippus'  On privatives (Simp.  Cat. 396.2-22). 
35 Ap. Dysc.  Conj. 215, 14-22, who also mentions the use of a passive form in an active sense, e.g. 
µα!χοµαι, 'to fight', but this example looks un-Stoic, see below, p. 190. 
36 Varro  LL  ix.1 and viii.23. 
37 The analogy, or  ratio, has at least four terms, of which one is doubtful or unknown and can be decided upon, e.g.  amor :  amori ⫽  dolor :  dolori (supposing that the form of this dative is doubtful). 
38 Ax 1991, 289-93. 
39 Aulus Gellius ii.25 derives from Varro. Sextus  M  i.176-240 never alludes to the quarrel though attacking grammarians for defending analogy and neglecting anomaly. 
40 See the history of this interpretation in Ax 1991, 293-4. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
184
l a n g u a g e
minor  matters.41 Crates  may,  deliberately  or  inadvertently,  have  transferred the notion of anomaly to the domain of inflection in order to stress the importance of common usage as compared to analogy, a factor which was applied by some grammarians to a ridiculous extent.42
*
Ancient  grammar  is  a  'word  and  paradigm  model'  based  as  it  is  on  the word  as  an  isolable  linguistic  entity  and  on  paradigms  of  associated forms.43 However, proper definitions of word as well as of phrase or sentence are lacking. The Stoics introduce the notion of αυ0τοτελη' δια!νοια, 
'a complete, independent thought', and this is the closest ancient linguists come to a definition of a sentence.44 Ancient grammar, moreover, does not have the notion of syntactic subordination. To the Stoics a proposition like 'if it is light, it is day' is comparable to 'both it is day and it is night'; both are a combination of two propositions which are connected by a conjunction and function on the same level. This view becomes the traditional  one.45 Though  expressions  like  κατηγο!ρηµα and  πτω4σι
ο0ρθη! justify a syntactic interpretation of predicate and subject, the very use of  πτω4σι  ο0ρθη! for the nominative case also prevents dissociating subject from nominative and consequently a proper analysis of e.g. infinitive constructions. No such distinctions are made by grammarians either nor do they develop an autonomous syntax.46 Even so, ancient linguists are able to describe many syntactic phenomena, albeit often in a convoluted way. 
The  following  survey  focuses  on  matters  of  phonology,  morphology and syntax insofar as they were discussed by the Stoics, the leading philosophical  contributors  to  the  development  of  grammar.  The  e◊orts  of grammarians will be discussed to some extent but their main contributions appear to fall outside our period. 
*
The Stoics develop what we call a grammar in the context of their dialectic.  We  can  reconstruct  it  from  what  they  say  both  in  the   topos  on φωνη! (sound, speech) and in that on σηµαινο!µενα (meanings). The con-41 Blank 1982, 2-4 and Ax 1991, 294-5. 
42 S.E.  M  i.176 ◊. has some amusing examples. The use of ο3µοιον, 'similar', in definitions of analogy (e.g. S.E.  M  i.199) and its antinomy α0νο!µοιον, which looks like α0νω!µαλον ( ibid. 236-7) as well  as  the  fact  that  the  usual  Greek  word  for  'derivation',  παραγωγη!,  may  also  mean
'inflection' (Schenkeveld 1990b, 297-8), may have brought Crates to his position. 
43 Robins 1979, 25. 
44 In practice µε!ρο, µο!ριον, ο3νοµα and λε!ξι are used for 'word' and λο!γο often agrees with our
'sentence' or 'phrase'. 
45 Cf. Sluiter 1990, 137-8. 
46 Baratin 1989, 487-91. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
l i n g u i s t i c s
185
tents of the first  topos  are mainly known from Diogenes' summary based on the τε!χνη  περι' φωνη4 by Diogenes of Babylon.47 The structure of this Stoic τε!χνη is tripartite.48 A first part considers the constituents of language: general definitions of φωνη!, λε!ξι ( lexis) and λο!γο ( logos) followed by the list of the letters (στοιχει4α) and di◊erences between  lexis and  logos, and concluding with a treatment of the parts of speech. A second part discusses the uses of language: right versus wrong usage, especially in prose, followed by the characteristics of poetry and a section on ambiguous  use  of  language.  The  third  part  consists  of  definitions  of genus, species etc. (But the position of this section here is not without problems.) For the second  topos  Diogenes is again our chief source. 
Stoic  phonology  is  the  first  Greek  systematic  theory  of  sound  and speech,49 though  the  Academy  and  Aristotle  had  imparted  significant impulses.50 Whereas to Aristotle sound was a stroke of the air, from Zeno onwards the Stoics define sound as 'air being struck', by which phrasing they express the corporeality of sound.51 This materialism of sound, a big issue in philosophical discussions,52 is important to the Stoics in order to underpin the di◊erences between corporeal sound and incorporeal λεκτα! 
( lekta).53 Aristotle started from ψο!φο (any sound), which he also defined as 'the proper object of perception by the sense of hearing'.54 Diogenes of Babylon takes over the latter definition55 but applies it to φωνη!, voice. It is apparent that in this way he and other Stoics immediately focus their discussion on voice, not on sound in general, thereby giving rise to confusion  between  sound  and  voice.  This  mix-up  was  rightly  criticized  later on.56
The Stoic theory is directed towards its prime member, the  logos. By means of a dihaeretic method based on the presence or absence of the features  of  scriptibility  or  articulacy  they  first  narrow  down  voice  to   lexis (expression), as 'written, or articulated voice' and the feature of semantic-ity  then  decides  whether  a   lexis  is   logos  or  not.57 Zeno  defines   logos  as
'meaningful voice issued from the thought'58 and  lexis  as being scriptible. 
47 D.L.  vii.55-62,  who  also  cites  Archedemus'  treatise  with  the  same  title  and  Posidonius' 
Περι' λε!ξεω ει0σαγωγη!. 
48 See also Schenkeveld 1990a for the influential reconstruction of Barwick 1922, 91-2 based on the form of Latin  artes, which is rejected here. 
49 Texts in D.L. vii.55-7 and ΣDThrax 482.5-32. 
50 See Ax 1986, 113-15 and 137-8. 
51 D.L. viii.55. 
52 E.g. [Plu.]  Plac. 902f-903a and ΣDThrax 482.14-19. See Ax 1986, 177-81. 
53 On λεκτα! see below, pp. 198-213. 
54  De an. ii.8 and 6, cf.  HA  i.1 and iv.9. 
55 See Ax 1986, 173 and Schenkeveld 1990b, 302 for a definition given by older Stoics. 
56 Simp.  Phys. 425, 34-7. See also Ax 1986, 174. 
57 D.L. vii.56-7; Gal.  PHP  ii.5.6-24. 
58 The addition of 'issued from the thought' is related to the discussion about the place of λο!γο
and the governing part of the soul (το' η/γεµονικο'ν µε0ρο τη4 ψυχη4) in the heart, not in the brain (Gal.  PHP  ii.5). The addition at the same time excludes animals and young children from having λο!γο (Hülser 1987-8, 536-8). 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
186
l a n g u a g e
Later,  under  Aristotle's  influence,  Diogenes  of  Babylon  defines   lexis  as
'articulated voice which may be either meaningful ( logos) or not'. In the latter case the standard examples are meaningless words like βλι!τυρι and σκινδαψο!, denoting a twang of a harp-instrument and of a kind of banjo respectively.59 The  switch  from  scriptibility  (Zeno)  to  articulacy (Diogenes) as the starting point for further distinctions may be due to a wish  for  more  exactness,  as  articulation  is  seen  as  the  prerequisite  for scriptibility. Grammarians make quadruple distinctions based on the features of scriptibility and intelligibility.60
 Logos  includes any meaningful expression, from a single word through phrases to whole texts, and these expressions are  lexeis  at the same time. 
Thus η/µε!ρα ε0στι ('it is day') is a good example of both  lexis  and  logos 61
since these words form a string of scriptible or articulate sounds and have a  meaning  as  well.62 The  di◊erence  between  these  two  important  concepts  is  also  expressed  in  another  way:  voices  are  uttered  (προφε!ρειν) whereas λε!γειν is expressly reserved for πρα!γµατα (states of a◊airs).63
Both  lexis  and  logos  can be subdivided into στοιχει4α, elements. The elements of the  lexis  are the twenty-four letters, which in Diogenes' account are grouped into seven voiced and six unvoiced. The remaining eleven letters are not mentioned here but are classified as semivoiced by Sextus.64
Together with the unvoiced they form the group of the consonants. The Stoics may also have made a similar distinction. If this is so, they put the three aspirates theta, phi, chi, under the semivoiced, whereas in the  Techne-
they are classified as unvoiced. Distinctions between voiced, semivoiced, and  unvoiced  sounds  are  known  from  Plato  and  Aristotle  onwards  and were  further  developed  by  students  of  musical  metres  like  Aristotle's pupil, Aristoxenus of Tarentum.65
This Stoic theory concerns sounds, but the introduction of scriptibility suggests  to  scholars  that  the  system  confuses  written  with  spoken  language. Later grammatical theory may sometimes justify such a charge but generally speaking philosophers and grammarians keep written and spoken language apart and distinguish between γρα!µµατα and στοιχει4α as entities of graphic representation and of voice respectively.66 Thus the Stoics speak  of  the  elements  of  the   lexis,  define  these  as  the  twenty-four 59 D.L. vii.57 and S.E.  M  viii.133. 
60 See Ax 1986, 236-9 and Desbordes 1990, 104-6. 
61 The text in D.L. vii.56 is corrupt and Casaubon's restoration suggests an additional di◊erence between a single word (λε!ξι ) and a group of words (λο!γο ), a distinction known from other, non-Stoic sources. See Ax 1986, 199-20 0. 
62 Baratin 1991, 196. 
63 D.L. vii.57, cf. S.E.  M  viii.80. 
64 D.L. vii.57; S.E.  M  i.10 0-2. 
65 Plato  Crat. 393c; Arist.  Poet. 20 and D.H.  Comp. 14. 
66 Cf. the modern notions of 'graphemes' and 'phonemes'. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
l i n g u i s t i c s
187
γρα!µµατα but immediately notice a threefold usage of this latter word:
'The word "letter" has three meanings: (1) the element, (2) the character (written form) of that element and (3) the name, e.g. alpha.'67 Starting from the  constituent  of  oral  voice  they  define  the  other  usages  in  its  terms. 
Grammarians  change  this  perspective  when  they  say  that  στοιχει4ον has three (or four) senses, namely the written character, its value (δυ!ναµι) and its name, the fourth being the position of an element before or after another one.68 A genuine confusion of written and oral language is therefore not a characteristic  of  ancient  linguistic  analysis,69 but  from  its  beginnings onwards this analysis tends to a very close connection of the two languages, a tendency caused both by the habit of reading aloud and by the fact that the primary objects of study were the written texts of classical authors.70
*
The elements of  logos  are the parts of speech, word classes.71 These combine  aspects  of  form  and  meaning.  In  fact,  the  verb  is  defined  in   lekta-
terms,  but   lekta  cannot  be  identified  without  words  and  phrases. 
Accordingly, the di◊erentiation of  lekta  corresponds to that of the signifiers  and  so  can  be  used  by  grammarians.72 Another  consequence  is  that Stoic 'grammar' mainly discusses what is of interest to students of logic and does not strive after completeness. On many points, e.g. the status of the copula ε0στι ('is'),73 it is silent. 
Chrysippus and Diogenes classify five parts of speech, προσηγορι!α, ο3νοµα,  ρ/η4µα,  συ!νδεσµο and  α3ρθρον and  Antipater  adds  a  sixth, µεσο!τη,74 the  adverb,75 which  was  originally  included  under  the verb.76 Pronoun, participle and preposition are not seen as independent 67 The insertion in D.L. vii.56 of <το' στοιχει4ον> is necessary and more probable than that of <και' 
η/ του!του δυ!ναµι after χαρακτη'ρ του4 στοιχει!ου (Barwick 1957, 54n.). Cf. Egli 1967, 27
and Desbordes 1990, 116. 
68 S.E.  M  i.99 and ΣDThrax 317.7. 
69 See Desbordes 1987 and Sluiter 1990, 196. 
70 Apart from these distinctions the Stoics also use δια!λεκτο in the senses of 'dialect' (first occurrence  for  this  meaning)  and  'national  language',  whereas  Aristotle  used  it  in  a  more  general sense of 'articulated voice'. 
71 Στοιχει4α or µε!ρη του4 λο!γου D.L. vii.58 and Gal.  PHP  viii.3. Texts in  FDS  536-93 with references to the other  topos. 
72 A. C. Lloyd 1971, 61-3. 
73 See Nuchelmans 1973, 51 and Kerferd 1978b, 262-6. 
74 'Proper name, appellative, verb, conjunction, article, adverb'. D.L. vii.57. The reports on the development  of  the  whole  system  in  D.H.  ( Comp.  2  and   Dem.  48,  cf.  Quint.  Inst.  i.18)  are artificial reconstructions. 
75 Thus in Aristarchus' scholia on Homer, e.g.  i.446b. To take it as 'participle' (e.g. Forschner 1981, 70) neglects the tradition that the Stoics do not distinguish the participle as a separate class. The traditional name is later ε0πι!ρρηµα. 
76 Stoics also call it πανδε!κτη, 'all-receiver' (Charis.  Ars gram.  247.13-3). Pinborg's suggestion (1961) that the Stoics emphasize the rational contents of interjections and put them under the adverb has no basis (Sluiter 1990, 209-11). 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
188
l a n g u a g e
classes and appear under article, verb and conjunction respectively. For example, the participle is an 'inflectional form of the verb'77 though also a species of the appellative.78 Grammarians order these items into independent classes and increase the number of parts of speech to nine or ten, though eight becomes the standard number.79 The Stoic series has one surprise,  the  inclusion  of  the  conjunction  under  parts  of  the   logos,  for Aristotle defines his συ!νδεσµο  as 'non-significant'. Because, however, to the Stoics connections between states of a◊airs in the nature of things are real and are reflected in language by di◊erent conjunctions of implication etc., they never doubt that conjunctions have a well-defined meaning.80 They bind together the parts of the  logos  and their meaning is to indicate the sense of this complex. Maybe a special term, 'to announce'
(ε0παγγε!λλεσθαι),  expresses  the  way  this  class  signifies.  In  Diogenes'
examples all conjunctions stand in front position and thus can be said to







'announce' how to take the following expressions.81
Apart  from  the  adverb  all  Stoic  parts  of  speech  get  a  definition  in Diogenes' account. Thus the 'article' is 'a declinable part of speech, distinguishing the genders and numbers of nouns, e.g. ο/, η/, το!'. However, this article  also  comprises  pronouns  since  the  Stoics  distinguish  between
'indefinite (or non-specific) articles' (⫽articles proper), and 'definite (or specific) articles' embracing personal, demonstrative and anaphoric pronouns.82 Later the latter words get a status of their own and are called α0ντωνυµι!αι. To call the articles 'indefinite' looks strange but it may be significant that examples like ο/ δειπνη!σα ('one who has dined') with a non-specific reference are often cited.83
Προσηγορι!α, appellative, is distinguished from ο3νοµα, proper name. 
This  di◊erentiation  is  attacked  by  grammarians,  who  prefer  ο3νοµα to cover all nouns.84 The main reason for this division lies in the theory of the  categories,  where  a  distinction  between  'commonly  qualified'  and
'particularly qualified' exists.85 The definitions are for the appellative 'a part  of  speech  signifying  a  common  quality'  (e.g.  α3νθρωπο, 'man'; or ι1ππο, 'horse'), and for the proper name 'a part of speech showing an 77 ΣDThrax 356.11-12 and 518.17-32, on which see Schenkeveld 1990b, 297-8. 
78 Priscian. xi.1, 548,15-17  appellatio reciproca. 
79 Aristarchus  uses  eight  classes  (Ax  1991,  285),  Dionysius  of  Halicarnassus  nine  (Schenkeveld 1983, 70-2). 
80 Frede 1978, 62-4; Sluiter 1990, 14. Di◊erently e.g. Nuchelmans 1973, 70-1. Posidonius (Ap. 
Dysc.  Conj.  214.4-20)  challenges  the  view  of  συ!νδεσµοι being  non-signifying  -  see  below, p. 209. 
81 D.L. vii.71-3. 
82 Ap. Dysc.  Pron. 5.13-19. Schenkeveld 1983, 74-6; di Benedetto 1990, 19-29. 
83 Frede 1974a, 51-67. 
84 ΣDThrax 356.16-357.26 with allegedly Stoic arguments. 
85 The relationship between Stoic 'categories' and parts of speech is much debated. See Hülser 1987-8, 10 08-9. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
l i n g u i s t i c s
189
individual quality' e.g. ∆ιογε!νη, Σωκρα!τη. The distinction is of value in discussions about the truth-value of propositions and is related to the use of deictic pronouns,86 but it has little success in grammatical treatises. 
Stoics  distinguish  at  least  four  cases,87 nominative  (ο0ρθη!),  genitive (γενικη!), dative (δοτικη!) and accusative (αι0τιατικη!), and perhaps a fifth case, the vocative (κλητικη!).88 Whereas Aristotle takes the nominative as the noun of which the other cases are πτω!σει,89 to the Stoics the nominative, like Σωκρα!τη, 'falls' from the concept of Socrates in our mind and is therefore a 'case'.90 The various names of the cases are Stoic inventions and become traditional.91
The  definition  of  the  conjunction  as  'a  part  of  speech  without  cases which joins the parts of the  logos' covers both our conjunction and our preposition. For 'the parts of the  logos' are not only individual words or parts of a sentence bound together by prepositions or conjunctions but also parts of the  logos  as an argument consisting of a complex of phrases.92
Prepositions  are  called  prepositive  conjunctions  and  the  conjunctions proper just συ!νδεσµοι. Later the status of prepositions as a word class of their  own  (προθε!σει)  becomes  secure.93 The  conjunctions94 are  classified according to their semantic value in non-simple propositions. Thus the Stoics call ει0 ('if ') a συ!νδεσµο συναπτικο! because it functions as a conjunction  of  implication  in  the  α0ξι!ωµα  συνηµµε!νον by  announcing that its second part follows consequentially upon the first part. Further types  are  'subconditional'  (ε0πει!, 'since'), 'conjunctive' (και!, 'and'), 'disjunctive' (η3τοι . . . η3, 'either . . . or'), 'causal' (διο!τι 'because'),95 and 'indicating "more" or "less"' (µα4λλον, η9ττον).96
*
The Stoic treatment of the verb is highly original.97 Diogenes' definition ρ/η4µα is 'a part of speech signifying a non-combined κατηγο!ρηµα'. 
This and his alternative one, 'an undeclined part of speech, signifying 86 S.E.  M  viii.96-8; D.L. vii.68-70. 
87 E.g. Ammon.  Int. 42.30-43.24. 
88 The content of Chrysippus'  On the five cases (D.L. vii.192) is unknown. 
89 He uses πτω4σι in other contexts for e.g. adverbs derived from adjectives. 
90 Ammon.  Int. 42.30-43.24. 
91 The reason for the name αι0τιατικη! ( accusativus)  is problematic. 
92 D.L. vii.76. 
93 Ap. Dysc.  Synt. 436.13-437.2 and  Conj. 214.8-9 but D.H.  Comp. 102.16-17 is still troubled by the status of ε0πι! (a conjunction or a preposition?). 
94 Compare above, p. 188. 
95 This type may have included final conjunctions; see Sluiter 1990, 154-5. 
96 D.L. vii.71-3. Ap. Dysc.  Conj. 251.27-252.6 and 250.12-19 also mentions 'inferential' (α3ρα) and
'assumptive' (δε! γε) as conjunctions. From D.L. vii.67 and S.E.  M  viii.70-4 one may perhaps infer a distinction of expletive conjunctions. For the use of this theory of conjunctions in other parts of Stoic philosophy see Brunschwig 1978b, 62-9 and Sluiter 1988, 59-62. 
97 Cf. Hülser 1987-8, 932-10 07, with discussion of the various, often contradictory traditions. 
Müller 1943 still is fundamental, followed by Pinborg 1975, 85-95. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
190
l a n g u a g e
something which can be attached to one or more things' have no reference to time, which to Aristotle distinguishes ρ/η4µα from ο3νοµα.98 The reason  for  this  omission  may  be  that  the  early  Stoic  ρ/η4µα  includes adverbs. 
Two texts which discuss di◊erent types of predicate suggest or imply distinctions at the linguistic level.99 Predicates are divided into 'upright, active'  (ο0ρθο!ν),  'supine'  or  'passive'  (υ1πτιον)100 and  'neuter'
(ου0δε!τερον). This distinction is linked to that between active and passive dispositions (δια!θεσι) whereas in the case of 'neuter predicates' the verb shows  pure  activity  or  passivity  (ποι!ησι or  πει4σι  καθαρα!).  These semantic distinctions are made without attention to the form of the verb. 
Because  of  their  interest  in  morphology  grammarians  later  introduce  a di◊erent ordering and call, for example, περιπατει4 ('he walks') an 'active verb'. 
The  Stoics  probably  discern  several  moods  of  the  verb,101 called δια!θεσι or ε3γκλισι. The indicative, optative, imperative and moods of question, oath and suggestion are distinguished whereas neither infinitive nor subjunctive are yet seen as separate moods.102 Originally treated as concomitants of verbs, adverbs,103 especially modal ones, seem to be exploited  in  order  to  distinguish  between  moods  of  question,  whereas adverbs like µα! or νη! are thought to announce an oath. The various  lekta are connected with dispositions of the soul.104 No text, however, states that  the  production  of  a   lekton  results  from  an  inclination  of  the  soul (ε3γκλισι  ψυχη4), a statement which would give a definite link with a Stoic theory of moods. 
Their theory of tenses (χρο!νοι), a hot item in modern scholarship,105
has the following terms:106
ε0νεστω'* παρατατικο! (extending present)
~ present
ε0νεστω' συντελικο! (completed present)
~ perfect
98  Int. 16b6. 
99 Porph.  apud  Ammon.  Int.  44.11-45.9; D.L. vii.64 - below, p. 245. 
100 Within  the  class  of  υ3πτια the reflexive predicates have a status of their own and are called α0ντιπεπονθο!τα, e.g. κει!ρεται, 'he cuts his hair o◊', because the agent includes himself in the sphere  of  the  action  (D.L.  vii.64).  Probably,  this  predicate  is  interpreted  as  κει!ρεται  υ/φ'
ε/αυτου4. Thus Müller 1943, 57. 
101 Texts in  FDS  909-13. See Schenkeveld 1984, 333-51. 
102 D.L. vii.65-8 and Ap. Dysc.  Synt. 43.15-18. 
103 Thisfollowsfrom the criticis
m by Stoicsof Zeno'sdefinition of the τε!λο as το' 
ο/µολογουµε!νω ζη4ν without τ%4 φυ!σει. They call thisdefinition an ε0λα!ττον η2
κατηγο!ρηµα (Stob. ii.75.11-76.8). The missing πτω4σι πλα!για isgoverned by the adverbial part of the κατηγο!ρηµα. 
104 S.E.  M  viii.397; Theon  Prog. 62.13-20 and Sen.  Ep. 117.3. 
105 Texts in  FDS  807-26. A survey of interpretations in Berretoni 1989, 33-8. 
106 The  examples,  if  present,  all  concern  indicatives,  not  other  moods.  -  Traditional  theory keeps the  words  marked  by  *;  for  perfect  and  pluperfect  it  uses  παρακει!µενο  and υ/περσυντε!λικο. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
l i n g u i s t i c s
191
παρ χηµε!νο παρατατικο!* (extending past) ~ imperfect
παρ χηµε!νο συντελικο! (completed past)
~ pluperfect
α0ο!ριστο* (undefined)
~ aorist
µε!λλων* (future)
~ future
From  this  list  with  its  oppositional  pairs  it  has  been  inferred  that  the Stoics apply a tense system to one based on the notion of 'aspect'107 or vice versa. However, there is no indication that next to tense the Stoics distinguish a separate category of aspect. To the Stoics time is an incorporeal continuum  which  can  be  infinitely  divided.  For  this  reason  no  time  is wholly present inasmuch as the present consists of a part of the past and a part of the future. Past and future are parts of time and stretch out infinitely on one side but are limited by the present, which acts as a kind of joining.108 Like  Aristotle,109 the  Stoics  start  their  division  from  the moment of speaking, the present,110 and use temporal adverbs to define the relations of times, and thus of tenses, to the present time. Thus, the present  tells  that  some  action,  started  in  the  past,  will  continue;  the imperfect that a small part has yet to be achieved.111 The aorist, with its past sense, is made more precise by the addition of α3ρτι ('just/just now') and so becomes a perfect; the addition of πα!λαι ('once') makes it a pluperfect.112 But the perfect is not a past tense notwithstanding close links with  the  past,113 for  it  tells  about  something  present  which  has  been achieved a short time ago. In all, the Stoics use only one category, χρο!νο, and define tenses both in terms of the location of processes in time and in terms which structure time seen as completed or extending.114 The latter opposition concerns both the time of an action and its progress, both of which are related to motion. 
The  Stoics  may  have  led  grammarians  in  organizing  categories  of mood, voice and tense - as well as gender, number and case of the  nomina -
107 Often also called  Aktionsart, confusingly. Pohlenz 1939, 177-8 thinks of influence of the Semitic aspectual system on the analysis of the Greek verb since the early Stoics came from a Semitic milieu. Though often repeated this view is wrong, see Versteegh 1980, 349. 
108 Cf. Long and Sedley 1987, vol. i, 304-8. 
109  Phys. iv.10-14, esp. 13. 
110 S.E.  M  viii.254-6. 
111 ΣDThrax 250.26-21.25; Choerob.  Can. 11.23-13.17; Priscian. viii.38-40 and 51-6; these texts probably go back to a work of Ap. Dysc. - See Berretoni 1989, 60 for a graphic representation of the tenses put on a continuous line. 
112 To Aristotle,  Phys. 222a24-6, πο!τε ('once') indicates a time defined (ω/ρισµε!νο) in relation to
'the now' because it is separated from it by a certain time; his examples contain an aorist and a future tense. Perhaps the Stoic term α0ο!ριστο contains a criticism of Aristotle. In our sources aorist and future are closely coupled. 
113 See the discussion in S.E.  M  viii.254 of expressions with perfect tenses referring to the past. 
114 Cf.  S.E.  M  x.85-10 0  on  α0ξιω!µατα  συντελεστικα! and  παρατατικα!.  See  Berretoni  1989, 60-3. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
192
l a n g u a g e
by means of  accidentia, 'constant attributes'. This Latin term is a translation of συµβεβηκο!τα and in texts on the Stoic theory of causes and e◊ects this  word  means  necessary  or  constant  consequence.115 But  it  is  not found in grammatical texts as a technical term for constant attributes of verb  or  noun.116 The  traditional  Greek  name  is  παρεπο!µενα,  a  word known  from  Aristotelian  works  in  the  sense  of  necessary  consequence, and it may well be that Stoics, too, used this term.117
The Stoic system is continued by grammarians although not without changes. It is the first conscious e◊ort to structure the description of the Greek verb, it is original in many respects and at times looks naive.118 But it shaped Latin grammar and consequently those of modern languages. 
*
The  contribution  of  Hellenistic  scholars  to  the  development  of  Greek grammar is di√cult to ascertain because the tradition is fragmentary and first and foremost because their task is conceived as of explaining literary texts, especially poetry, not writing a grammar. The first to write such a treatise is Aristarchus' pupil Dionysius Thrax but what we have under the name  of   Techne-  is,  apart  from  the  first  five  sections,  not  by  him.119 He defines γραµµατικη! as 'the practical study of the normal usage of poets and prose writers' and divides it into six parts, out of which the fifth one, 
'a detailed account of regular patterns' would come close to what we call grammar. The parts are in an ascending order, the final being 'a critical assessment of poems', which is called 'the noblest part of all that the art includes'.120 Dionysius'  forerunners,  too,  give  thought  to  grammatical matters  in  their  explanations  of  Homer  and  other  poets  but  not  in  a systematic way. We can reconstruct, therefore, a set of rules being applied in  practice  ('practical  grammar'),  rather  than  a  formal  grammar.  Thus Aristophanes  of  Byzantium  has  a  knowledge  of  regular  patterns  in  the inflection of words, uses several technical terms and talks about the characteristics of the preposition. He also applies five di◊erent criteria (e.g., gender, case) to decide which is the correct form of a word but does not prescribe a norm for the correct word.121
Aristarchus of Samothrace uses a system of eight parts of speech with 115 Forschner 1981, 85-90. 
116 D.H.  Comp. 132.7 and 135.4 ⫽  Dem. 242.20 uses τα' συµβεβηκο!τα for  accidentia  in an unusually wide sense. 
117 Frede 1978, 67-8. 
118 E.g. in what it said about the di◊erence between perfect and pluperfect tenses. Most scholars ascribe those statements to the grammarians, without much validity, however. 
119 Kemp 1991 with a survey of modern scholarship, and Schenkeveld 1995, 41-52. 
120 'Critical assessment' (κρι!σι) concerns the authenticity of texts (S.E.  M  i.93), not their literary value. 
121 Ax 1991, 277-82. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
l i n g u i s t i c s
193
their accidents and applies these and other notions to decide on syntactical  di◊erences  (σχη!µατα) between Homeric usage and that of his own time. All this presupposes a highly developed apparatus to describe grammatical,  and  specifically  morphological,  phenomena.  Aristarchus  also deals  with  grammatical  matters  in  their  own  right  when  defining  pronouns  as  'words  ordered  according  to  person'  and  calling  the  pronoun αυ0το! 'subsidiary', because it is put after specific personal pronouns.122
His pupil Dionysius Thrax shows Stoic influence by labelling several pronouns 'deictic articles' (see above), defining the verb as 'a word signifying a predicate' and separating the proper noun from the common noun.123
His  definition  of  γραµµατικη! (see  above)  includes  the  term  ε0µπειρι!α, 
'practical  study',  against  which  designation  later  grammarians,  like Asclepiades of Myrlea, protest because to them γραµµατικη! is a τε!χνη
having  a  logical  basis,  not  merely  dependent  on  practical  skill.124 But Dionysius' term does not imply such a contrast. 
Alongside these  artes  with their succinct presentation, longer treatises of a di◊erent character are mentioned; their general title is  On Hellenism (i.e. 
correct Greek). The oldest ones apparently date from the first century bc and also from this time date their first Latin counterparts,  de sermone latino. 
In  these  treatises  matters  of  pronunciation,  orthography,  inflection  and conjugation, usage of single words and syntax are discussed. Three factors guide  the  authors  in  their  activities,  analogy,  common  usage  (συνη!θεια) and literary tradition ( historia  or παρα!δοσι).125 As we have seen, some of these subjects are also a matter of discussion among philosophers. 
 2: Meaning
Chrysippus described dialectic as the study of what signifies and of what is  signified  (D.L.  vii.62):  the  concept  of  signification,  or  meaning,  thus stands in the middle of his logical interests; and it will not surprise that semantic issues engaged Stoic attention. 
The Stoics say that three items are linked to one another: what is signified,  what  signifies,  what  obtains.  What  signifies  is  the  utterance (φωνη!), e.g. 'Dio'. What is signified is the object (πρα4γµα) itself which is shown by the utterance and which we grasp when it subsists in our minds but which foreigners do not understand although they hear the utterance. What obtains (το' τυ!γχανον) is the external item, e.g. Dio himself.  Of  these  items,  two  are  bodies  -  viz.  the  utterance  and  what 122 Ap. Dysc.  Pron. 3.12-13; 62.16-17;  Synt. 137.9-138.9. See Schenkeveld 1994, 275-8. 
123 Ap. Dysc.  Pron. 5.13-19; ΣDThrax 160.24-161.8. In all these points the  Techne-  ascribed to him di◊ers. 
124 S.E.  M  i.57-90. See Calboli 1962, 162-9. 
125 Siebenborn 1976, 35 and ch. 4. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
194
l a n g u a g e
obtains - and one is incorporeal - namely the object signified or the sayable (λεκτο!ν) . . . (S.E.  M  viii.11-12)
The  Stoics  thus  appear  to  o◊er  a  three-tiered  account  of  meaning: utterances  signify  objects,  which  in  turn  stand  in  a  certain  relation  to external items: the word 'Dio' signifies an incorporeal item, which Dio himself 'obtains'. 
Aristotle had spoken of four tiers:
The items in the utterance are symbols of a◊ections in the soul, and the written items are symbols of items in the utterance. Just as the written forms are not the same for all, so the utterances are not the same either. 
But the primary items of which these are signs - a◊ections in the soul -
are  the  same  for  all,  and  the  objects  of  which  these  are  likenesses  are thereby the same. ( Int. 16a3-8)
Three of Aristotle's tiers seem to match the Stoic tiers:126 'items in the utterance'  correspond  to  the  Stoic  'utterances';  'a◊ections  in  the  soul', which the later tradition usually identified with thoughts,127 answer to the Stoic 'objects'; and Aristotle's 'objects' match the items which in the Stoic account are said to 'obtain'. 
Aristotle's pregnant remarks raised numerous questions for his followers, among them the following two. First, why suppose that the 'intermediate'  items,  the  items  between  utterances  and  external  things,  are
'a◊ections of the soul'? Here the Stoics were taken to be in disagreement with the Peripatetics; for they called their own 'intermediate' items λεκτα! 
or 'sayables'. This first question will return after the Stoic view has been outlined. Secondly, why suppose that there are any 'intermediate' items at all?  To  this  second  question  at  least  one  early  Peripatetic  could  find  no answer,128 and abandoned the Aristotelian view:
Epicurus and Strato the physicist allow only two items, what signifies and what obtains . . . (S.E.  M  viii.13)
Thus Strato apparently adopted a more parsimonious account. But we hear nothing  more  of  Strato's  semantic  views,  nor  does  any  other  Hellenistic Peripatetic seem to have interested himself in semantic issues.129
Sextus couples Strato with Epicurus - and here we are better informed. 
*
126 For the place of γρα!µµατα in the Stoic account see e.g. D.L. vii.56. 
127 E.g. Ammon.  Int. 17.22-6, 18.29-30; Boeth.  Int.2 11.28-30 (from Alexander). 
128 A later answer in Alexander,  apud  Boeth.  Int.2 40.30-41.11. 
129 Ammon.  Int. 65.31-66.9, has been taken to show that Theophrastus too preferred parsimony (Bochenski 1947, 39-40; Graeser 1973, 60); but the text bears on a completely di◊erent topic: Gottschalk 1992. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
l i n g u i s t i c s
195
Epicurus 'admits only two things'. Sextus' brief reference at  M  viii.13 is repeated at  M  viii.258 and echoed by a polemical passage in Plutarch: If these things subvert life, then who goes more wrong about language than you (i.e. you Epicureans), who do away entirely with the class of sayables  (λεκτα!),  which  gives  substance  to  language,  admitting  only utterances (φωναι!) and what obtains (τυγχα!νοντα) and saying that the intermediate objects which are signified - through which learning and teaching and preconception and thought and impulse and assent come about - do not exist at all? (Plu.  Col. 1119f )
It is not clear how much theory lay behind these jejune reports;130 but Epicurus'  view  on  meaning,  developed  or  undeveloped,  explicit  or implicit, seems to have made do with only two sorts of item, words and things. 
So  much  the  better.  For,  very  roughly  speaking,  you  know  what  the word 'cow' means if you know that 'cow' is true of an object just in case that object is a cow (or just in case that object is an animal of such-and-such  a  shape).131 In  general,  and  still  very  roughly,  you  know  what  a declarative sentence, S, means when you know that S is true if and only if P; you know what a predicative expression, 'F( )', means when you know that 'F( )' is true of x if and only if Gx; and so on. An account of meaning developed along these lines will not invoke any 'intermediate' items. 
Yet there are other texts which suggest that Epicurus held a modified version of the Peripatetic theory, and the chief text comes from the pen of Epicurus himself:
First,  then,  Herodotus,  we  must  grasp  the  items  which  are  collected under the sounds (τα' υ/ποτεταγµε!να τοι4 φθο!γγοι), so that we may refer what is believed or investigated or puzzled over to them and may thus  come  to  a  judgement,  lest  everything  be  unjudged  (if  we  o◊er proofs  ad infinitum) or else we make empty sounds. For it is necessary that the primary concept (το' πρω4τον ε0ννο!ηµα) should be looked at in connection  with  each  sound  and  should  need  no  proof,  if  we  are  to  have something  to  which  to  refer  what  is  investigated  or  puzzled  over  and believed. ( Ep. Hdt.  37)
Presumably  'the  items  which  are  collected  under  the  sounds'  are  the meanings  of  the  sounds;  and  since  these  items  are  then  identified  with
'primary concepts', Epicurus is saying that meaningful sounds mean concepts. 
This text is supported by a parallel passage in Diogenes Laertius (x.33, 130 'There really is no such thing as Epicurean semantics': Glidden 1983b, 204. 
131 See S.E.  PH  ii.25 and  M  vii.267 for the Epicurean definition of man. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
196
l a n g u a g e
where  'preconceptions'  replace  primary  concepts);  and  the  claim  that there can be no investigation and no inquiry without preconceptions is ascribed to the Epicureans in several further texts.132 Thus it seems that the  Epicureans  did  postulate  'intermediate'  items  between  words  and things:  where  the  Peripatetics  placed  a◊ections  of  the  soul,  there  the Epicureans located concepts or preconceptions.133
But  is  the   Letter  really  inconsistent  with  the  reports  in  Sextus  and Plutarch?134 We may usefully distinguish two questions. (1) What does the word 'cow' mean? Or in general, what does a linguistic item L mean? 
One answer might be: 'The word "cow" signifies an animal of such-and-such a sort; and in general, L signifies some sort of thing.' (2) When I utter the sentence 'That's a cow', how is it that I may thereby say that that is a cow? Or in general, how, by uttering L can I thereby say something about objects of a particular type? One (partial) answer is roughly this: 'In uttering "That's a cow" I say that that is a cow only if I have a true preconception of what a cow is, that is, only if I truly believe that cows are animals of such-and-such a sort.' The two questions are linked; but they are not the same question and they do not admit the same answer. The idea which Sextus and Plutarch report is an appropriate answer to question (1). To which question does the passage from the  Letter  address itself ? 
The  passage  is  primarily  concerned  with  epistemological  problems, and it makes ( inter alia) two connected points. First: if you are to investigate or puzzle over anything - more generally, if you are to believe or talk about anything - then you must have a concept of the thing in question. 
This point is simple and true: if I am to wonder whether, say, the thing over there is a cow, then I must know what a cow is; for if I have no idea of what a cow is, no conception of a cow, then I cannot think (and I cannot say) anything at all about cows.135 The second point is that these concepts must be 'primary' or 'evident'; that is to say, they must not stand in need of 'proof '. This suggests that concepts should be construed as  propositional items: my concept of a cow is, or is expressed by, a proposition such as 'A 132 S.E.  M  i.57; viii.331a; xi.21; Cic.  ND  i.43; Clem.  Strom. i i.4.16; Plu. fr. 215f. Note also Phld.  Ir. 
xlv.1-6: the word θυµο! has two senses - and it is sometimes to be taken 'in accordance with this  προ!ληψι',  sometimes  in  accordance  with  that.  Here  it  would  be  easy  to  translate προ!ληψι as 'meaning'. 
133 So e.g. Long 1971d, 120-2; Sedley 1973, 20-1; Long and Sedley 1987, i.101 (further references in Glidden 1983b, 186 n. 8). The view is summarized thus: 'προ!ληψι is some sort of mental entity to which words refer' (Long 1971d, 131 n. 33). 
134 For a developed account of the following sketch see Barnes 1996c; an alternative account in Everson 1994b. 
135 This  point  is  closely  connected  with  'Meno's  paradox',  and  it  was  perhaps  so  connected  by Epicurus himself; at all events, Plu. fr. 215f cites the point as the Epicurean answer to the paradox. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
l i n g u i s t i c s
197
cow is an animal of  that  shape.'136 The suggestion is confirmed by two fragments of Book xxviii of Epicurus O n Nature: there the verb 'collect under'  (υ/ποτα!ττειν) reappears in a context which is clearly concerned with words and utterances, and in one of the two passages it is explicitly stated that what is 'collected under' an utterance is a belief.137
If I am to investigate cows, or even to say that the animal over there is a cow, then I must have a preconception of a cow; and this preconception must be primary in the sense that it does not itself presuppose some further belief (a prepreconception, as it were). If there were no primary preconceptions,  then  there  would  be  a  regressive  infinity  of  beliefs:  an investigation  requires  a  preconception,  a  preconception  requires  a  prepreconception . . . If there were no preconceptions at all, my words would be 'empty' and I would not be engaged in any investigation. 
All of this bears directly on question (2); none of it bears directly on question (1) and it is not evident that it implies, indirectly, any answer to question (1). If this is so, then we may accept the evidence of Sextus and Plutarch: the Epicureans saw no need to posit any intermediate semantic items. 
*
The  Stoics  thought  more  about  meaning  than  the  Peripatetics  or  the Epicureans  cared  to  do;  and  certain  texts,  among  them  the  passage  in Sextus,  M  viii.11-12, with which this section began, insinuate a rich and subtle semantic theory. But it is best to proceed modestly.138
First, then, the Stoics distinguished between what is uttered and what is said:
Saying  and  uttering  are  di◊erent;  for  what  we  utter  are  utterances (φωναι!), whereas what we say are objects (πρα!γµατα), which in fact are sayables (λεκτα!).139
Secondly, they distinguished between what is said and what is spoken about:140 you may speak about Chrysippus, but you cannot say Chrysippus. 
136 So e.g. Striker 1974, 71-2. 
137  PHerc.  1479/1417, fr. 6 col. i 5-13, at line 13; see also fr. 13 col. vi inf. 2-col vii sup. 5 (text from Sedley 1973). 
138 The issue is di√cult and contested; for recent accounts see Schubert 1994, and Frede 1994. A view di◊erent from the one developed in this section is preferred below, pp. 40 0-2. 
139 D.L. vii.57 (the force of the last clause -  α2 δη' και' λεκτα' τυγχα!νει - is obscure). Certain grammarians later used the word λεκτο!ν as a synonym for λε!ξι (S.E.  M  i.76-8), and this usage may perhaps explain how some authorities were capable of identifying Stoic λεκτα! with φωναι! 
(e.g. Phlp.  APr. 243.4; [Ammon.]  APr. 68.6). 
140  plurimum interest utrum illud dicas an de illo: Sen.  Ep. 117.13. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
198
l a n g u a g e
Chrysippus is not an 'object'; for objects lie 'between' words and the world.141
The  Stoics  called  these  objects  λεκτα!:  the  word  was  used  by Chrysippus, and by Cleanthes before him;142 but it was not a Stoic neologism. It occurs several times in fifth-century drama: there, something is λεκτο!ν (for someone) if it can be said or is the sort of thing to be said (by him);143 and the word did not change its sense when the neuter adjective hardened into a noun - a λεκτο!ν is a 'sayable'.144
Sayables  are,  among  other  things,  meanings.145 Suppose,  then,  that you utter the Greek sentence '∆ι!ων περιπατει4': then what (if anything) that sentence means is fixed by what (if anything) you can say in uttering it. More precisely, the sentence '∆ι!ων περιπατει4' means that Dio is walking if and only if in uttering '∆ι!ων περιπατει4' you can thereby say that Dio is walking. In general:
S means that P if and only if in uttering S x can thereby say that P. 
This abstract schema may serve to introduce the notion of the sayable into an account of meaning. But it only fits assertoric sentences: meanings and hence,  presumably,  sayables  must  also  be  associated  with   non-assertoric sentences, and with  sub-sentential components  of sentences. 
The  Stoics  speak  of  sayables  in  connexion  with  non-assertoric  utterances. Thus
they call certain sayables imperatival, namely those saying which we give a command (e.g.: Come hither, dear wife). (S.E.  M  viii.71) In  uttering  the  sentence  'Come  hither,  dear  wife',  I  thereby  say  something, and in saying it I give a command. But what sayable do I say? The question causes anglophones a minor embarrassment; for we standardly report what someone says by saying 'He said that . . .', and sentences of this form can only report  assertoric  sayings. A paratactic analysis will spare the blushes. The analysis invites us to rewrite 'He said that Dio was walking' as:
Dio is walking. 
He said that. 
141 For the metaphor see e.g. Plu.  Col. 1119f; Ammon.  Int. 17.25-8. For the word πρα4γµα see e.g. 
Nuchelmans 1973, 47-9; P. Hadot 1980. 
142 For  Chrysippus  see  e.g.  Logika  Ze-te-mata,  PHerc.  307,  viii.16;  xi.23;  for  Cleanthes,  see  Clem. 
 Strom. viii.9.26.4. 
143 E.g. S.  Phil. 633; E.  Hipp. 875; Ar.  Av. 422; Pherecrates fr. 157. 
144 'Sayable' is vile; but English has nothing decent to o◊er. 
145 For their other employments see below, pp. 40 0-1. Note that some grammarians later used the word λεκτο!ν in the sense of 'meaning': e.g. Ap. Dysc.  Pron. 59.1- 6;  Adv. 136.32. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
l i n g u i s t i c s
199
- where the demonstrative pronoun 'that' may be taken to refer to what is said by the first sentence. In general, the analysis o◊ers us the formula: P. 
He said that. 
The formula is not a barbarism ('He's as honest as the day - that's what they  said  before  he  became  a  politician');  and  non-assertoric  sentences may be substituted for 'P' ('Forget all about her - that's what he said'). 
Thus we may report the sayable said in uttering the imperatival sentence as follows:
Come hither, dear wife. 
He said that. 
This indeed is more or less what the ancient texts do. 
The  abstract  meaning  schema  can  now  be  adapted;  and  we  might choose to express the general idea thus: To know what a sentence S means is to know something of the following sort:
P. 
In uttering S x can say that. 
And here  any  sentence may be substituted for 'P'. 
Di◊erent sentences express di◊erent kinds of sayables, and these kinds are catalogued in several sources. No catalogue contains more than eleven items, but in all some fifteen or sixteen items are mentioned.146 The classification depended on the di◊erent kinds of thing which a speaker may do in saying a sayable, rather than (say) on any grammatical features of the sentences used to express the sayables.147 Thus imperatival sayables are
'those saying which we give a command'; and in general, di◊erent replacements for 'φ' in the schema
P. 
In saying that, x φ's. 
146 Ammon.  APr. 2.5 (cf. 26.33),  Int. 2.28, implies that the Stoics had a canonical list of ten items, five of which he identifies with the five sorts of λο!γοι which the later Peripatetics recognized. 
Lists explicitly attributed to the Stoics: S.E.  M  viii.72-5; D.L. vii.65-8; Ammon.  Int. 2.9-3.6; Anon.  Proleg.  Hermog.  Stat.  186.17-188.5;  ΣArist.  93b20-36.  (These  lists  di◊er  in  important respects, and there are also trifling di◊erences in terminology and choice of example.) See also: Suda  s.v.  α0ξι!ωµα (an abbreviated version of D.L.); ΣAphthon. ii.661.25-662.26 (deriving from Anon.  Proleg.). Similar lists, without reference to the Stoics: Phil.  Congr. 148;  Agr. 140; D.H. 
 Comp.  8 (32.7-13); Theon   Prog.  62.10-21,  87.13-90.17.  Note  also  D.L.  vii.63 (with Suda   s.v. 
κατηγο!ρηµα); Simp.  Cat. 406.20-8. On the issues raised by the list see esp. Schenkeveld 1984; cf. Pachet 1978; Hülser 1987-8, 1114-17. 
147 D.H.  Comp.  8 (32.7-13) says that 'we give our expressions a form appropriate to the di◊erent things we do in uttering them'; but he does not ascribe this thought to the Stoics. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
200
l a n g u a g e
will determine di◊erent kinds of sayables.148 In this formula, 'φ' may presumably  be  replaced  by  any  verb  which  denotes  a  'speech-act',  so  that there will be as many kinds of sayable as there are speech-acts. But there are indefinitely many kinds of speech-act and indefinitely many possible replacements for 'φ'. Philosophical (and perhaps also rhetorical) interests will have determined which kinds of sayable came to be mentioned. 
The  surviving  lists  of  sayables  no  doubt  derive  from  handbooks  (cf. 
Philo  Agr. 140); but we know that Chrysippus discussed some of the sayables they catalogue,149 and it is plausible to suppose that the handbooks draw ultimately on Chrysippus. 
Diogenes Laertius mentions ten items in all, o◊ering first an unadorned list  and  then  a  descriptive  catalogue.  The  catalogue  begins  with  (1) α0ξιω!µατα  or  assertibles,  items  'saying  which  we  make  assertions,  and which are either true or false'. Note that α0ξιω!µατα are not assertions: the sentence 'If Dio is walking, there is grain in the market' makes  one  assertion  but  it  contains  three  α0ξιω!µατα;  for  the  antecedent  and  the  consequent of the conditional are each α0ξιω!µατα.150 Then come (2) questions and  (3)  inquiries:  questions  demand  'Yes'  or  'No'  in  reply,  inquiries demand something discursive. Next, (4): 'an imperatival is an object saying which we command, e.g.: You, go to the streams of Inachus'. Then (5) oaths; and (6) invocations - an invocation is 'an object such that were one to say it, one would be making an invocation; e.g.: Great son of Atreus, Agamemnon, King of Men'. (7) 'Like an assertible is an object which, while having assertible expression, falls outside the class of assertibles because it is filled out by a further item or because of an alteration (πα!θο); e.g.: The Parthenon is indeed beautiful; how like the sons of Priam is the shepherd.'
Both these examples contain an additional particle: 'indeed (γε)' or 'how (α:ρα)'. It is not clear what 'alterations' might be pertinent.151 The discursive catalogue ends with (8) puzzlements, which are items like questions ('Are pain and life related?') but which do not demand an answer. 
Diogenes' list omits (8) but contains two items not in the catalogue:152
(9) curses (Sextus' illustration: 'May his brains flow on the ground as the 148 S.E.  M  viii.71-3 uses the formula 'λεκτα! of such-and-such a sort are those saying which we do so-and-so' for four of the seven types he lists; D.L. vii.66-8 uses virtually the same formula for four of his ten items. 
149 In addition to the texts discussed below note the titles in D.L. viii.191: Περι' προσταγµα!των
(2 books), Περι' ε0ρωτη!σεω (2 books), Περι' πευ!σεω (4 books). 
150 On α0ξιω!µατα see above, pp. 93-103. 
151 Or does 'πα!θο' here mean 'emotional tone'? (So Atherton 1993, 357.) S.E. gives D.L.'s second example and says that it is 'more than an assertible': if this is his name for this class of sayable (cf. 
Theon  Prog. 87.14), then presumably 'altered' assertibles were not included in it. 
152 The text of D.L. vii.66-8 is certainly corrupt in places; and it is likely that the list and the catalogue originally coincided. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
l i n g u i s t i c s
201
wine  flows  from  this  goblet'),  and  (10)  hypotheses  or  suppositions (Ammonius' illustration: 'Suppose that the earth is the centre of the sun's sphere').  To  these  ten  items  we  may  properly  add  (11)  prayers,  which appear in Sextus (and also in Philo). Some would subjoin (12) expositions ('Let this be a straight line'); but it is perhaps a later supplement.153
The  Stoics  were  not  the  first  philosophers  to  observe  that  there  are di◊erences among assertibles and imperativals and questions and the rest; but  their  analysis  of  these  sayables  was  original  -  and  unlike  Aristotle, who had relegated to rhetoric or poetics the study of any items which are neither true nor false,154 they regarded all these things as falling within the province of logic. How they treated them may be illustrated by two texts. 
The first concerns oaths.155 In the course of an argument, the details of which may be ignored, Chrysippus urged that:
Swearers must either swear truly or swear falsely at the time at which they swear; for what they swear is either true or false, since it is in fact an assertible. 
Suppose that Porsenna swears an oath by uttering the sentence 'By the nine gods, I shall not let them pass.' What he  says  is: By the nine gods, I shall not let them pass. 
What he  swears  is:
I shall not let them pass. 
And this is an assertible (although Porsenna does not assert it), and hence it is either true or false. (In the same way, if you say:
Do not steal, 
you thereby forbid, and also order; but you do not forbid or order what you say, nor do you forbid what you order.)156
There  are  obscurities  here;  but  it  is  plain  that  Chrysippus  had reflected on the relations among sayables of di◊erent types: in particular, an oath is not an assertible, and yet it may 'contain' an assertible. The phrase 'contained assertible' is found in the  Logical Investigations,157 and 153 Only in Ammon. and ΣArist. (Egli's addition of <και' ε0κθετικο!ν> to the list in D.L. is gratuitous). It is true that Chrysippus wrote Περι' υ/ποθε!σεων and  also  Περι' ε0κθε!σεων (D.L. vii.196)
- but these works are not listed in the το!πο περι' τα' πρα!γµατα and probably have nothing to do with types of λεκτα!. 
154 See  Int. 16b33-17a7. The first attempts to distinguish among items of this sort were made by Protagoras and Alcidamas: D.L. ix.53-4 (cf. Arist.  Poet. 1456b15-17). 
155 Stob.  Ecl. i.28.17-19; cf. J. D. G. Evans 1974. Note that (in this text at least) oaths are taken to refer to the future, i.e. to be solemn promises. 
156 See Plu.  Stoic. Rep. 1037de. 
157 x 9-10: περιειληµµε!να α0ξιω!{µατα (oaths are in the o√ng: note ]οµν[ in line 8). 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
202
l a n g u a g e
it is reasonable to suppose that Chrysippus had said more on the matter than our brief text preserves. 
The   Logical  Investigations  supply  a  second  illustration.  In  columns xi-xiii of  the  papyrus,  Chrysippus  is  discussing  some  puzzles  raised  by imperatives, one of which is indicated in these words:
. . . such cases too, e.g. 
Walk - otherwise sit down. 
For everything falls under the command; but it is not possible to take any predicable in its place - for no object is signified by such a thing as He is walking - otherwise sitting down.158
The problem is this. The sentence 'Walk - otherwise sit down' appears to express a command, and a  single  command. ('Everything falls under the command.')  Now  in  general  if  a  sentence  'φ a!'  expresses  a  command addressed to  a, then to the verb or verbal phrase 'φ( )' there must correspond a predicable; and if this predicable is expressed by the verbal phrase
'φ*(  )',  then  the  sentence  'φ*δ'  (where  'δ'  is  a  demonstrative  pronoun) must  express  an  'object'  and  in  particular  an  assertible.  But  in  the  case before us 'no object is signified by such a thing'. 
Chrysippus  eventually  concludes  that  'it  is  plausible  that  there   is  a predicable of the sort  to be walking - otherwise sitting down' (xiii.19-22): there  is  an object signified by 'φ*( )', and the command is after all unproblematical.  But  the  interesting  point  is  not  the  conclusion  nor  even  the puzzle itself; rather, it is the fact that Chrysippus' discussion was based on two semantic principles. The first principle, that to every imperatival sentence 'φ a! ' there must correspond a predicable 'φ*( )', rests on the thought that every command is a command  to do something,  to  ψ.159 The second principle,  that  if  'φ*(  )'  expresses  a  predicable,  then  'φ*δ'  expresses  an assertible,  connects  predicables  to  a  particular  sort  of  assertible.  Thus commands and assertibles, two di◊erent types of sayable, are linked. The link is made by the predicable and with predicables we pass from the sentential to the subsentential level. 
*
There were sayables connected with subsentential items:
Of sayables, the Stoics say that some are self-complete (αυ0τοτελη4), others  deficient  (ε0λλιπη4).  Deficient  are  those  which  have  an  unfinished 158 xii.12-19. At 15-17 I read: . . . 'κατηγο!ρηµ[α δε'] µεταλαβει4ν ου0θ[ε'ν] ε3στιν . . .' Otherwise I follow the text in Hülser 1987-8, 826. For discussion see Barnes 1986b. 
159 The next puzzle to which Chrysippus turns (µετα' δε' ταυ4τα: xiii.24) relies on the same principle (xiii.24-9). 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
l i n g u i s t i c s
203
expression, e.g.: 'writes' (γρα!φει) - for we go on to ask: Who? Self-complete are those which have a finished expression, e.g.: Socrates writes. 
(D.L. vii.63)160
Sayables are thus classified by appeal to the linguistic items which express them, so that a sayable is self-complete if and only if it is expressible by a finished expression.161 But when is an expression 'finished'? The answer in the text is unsatisfactory. Having heard 'I write' (γρα!φω), I will not ask: Who?, and having heard 'Socrates writes', I may well ask: What? or To whom? - yet the former expression is unfinished, the latter finished.162
Perhaps the best we can do is take the notion of a finished expression (a sentence) as primitive: a sayable is self-complete if and only if it is expressible by a sentence. 
Deficient sayables are genuinely sayable (the adjective 'deficient' is not alienating), even if they were perhaps regarded as potentially 'parts' of self-complete sayables (S.E.  M  viii.83), which are themselves sometimes called compound or complex.163 Although several texts imply that there were di◊erent types of deficient sayables, no text o◊ers a list. But it is clear that predicables,  κατηγορη!µατα,  were  deficient  sayables   par  excellence:  there were  monographs  on  them  by  Sphaerus  (D.L.  vii.178),  Cleanthes  (D.L. 
vii.175), Chrysippus (at least four works, one in ten books: D.L. vii.191). 
Diogenes Laertius o◊ers three distinct accounts of what a predicable is: A predicable is (1) what is remarked of something, or (2) an object put together about some thing or some things, as Apollodorus says, or (3) a deficient  sayable  put  together  with  a  nominative  case  to  generate  an assertible. (D.L. vii.64)
The definitions are successively more specific; but it would be rash to infer that they are also chronologically successive. They all agree that a predicable is a sayable - an 'object (πρα4γµα)' or something 'remarked'. In the sentence 'Socrates writes', the verb 'writes' is not itself a predicable;164
rather, the verb expresses or signifies a predicable.165
160 Cf. e.g. S.E.  M  viii.12, 70; Phil.  Agr. 140 (τε!λειο/ α0τελη!). The Peripatetics and the grammarians make a similar distinction: see Nuchelmans 1973, 90-7. 
161 See  ΣDThrax  514.35-515.5,  536.1-4,  for  the  idea  that  parts  of  speech  combine  to  'finish'  a λο!γο (a view which is ascribed to 'the philosophers'). Note that the Suda,  s.v.  κατηγο!ρηµα, refers  to  a  finished   thought (δια!νοια) rather than a finished expression (cf. Varro,  apud  Gell. 
xvi.8.6 -8; Apul.  Int. 190.3; and e.g. Ap. Dysc.  Synt. iii.155; S.E.  PH  ii.176). 
162 'γρα!φω'  is  classified  as  a  verb,  i.e.  an  unfinished  expression:  D.L.  vii.58;  Suda   s.v.  ρ/η4µα. 
Presumably the Stoics took it as elliptical for 'ε0γω' γρα!φω'. 
163 E.g. S.E.  PH  ii.108-9;  M  viii.79-84; cf. the definition of 'predicable' at D.L. vii.64, cited below. 
164 The Stoics often used the infinitive form of the verb to name the predicable: see Chrysippus Logika Ze-te-mata,  PHerc. 307; S.E.  PH  iii.14;  M  ix.211; Cic.  Tusc. iv.9.21; Sen.  Ep. 117.3, 12. Note the infinitive in the text ascribed to Zeno at Stob.  Ecl. i.13.1c. 
165 See  the  definitions  of  the  verb,  ρ/η4µα,  at  D.L.  vii.58  (with  Suda   s.v.  ρ/η4µα):  see  above,  pp. 
189-90. The second definition clearly matches the Apollodoran account of predicables. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
204
l a n g u a g e
A predicable is a deficient sayable inasmuch as it cannot be said  simpli-
 citer; it is a sayable inasmuch as it can be  said of  something or other. The meaning of a verb or verbal phrase is fixed by what, in uttering it, you can say of something: you understand what a verb or verbal phrase, V, means if and only if you know that anyone who utters a sentence which couples V
and a name can thereby say of something that it is so-and-so. (You know the meaning of '. . . pontificates' if you know that anyone who utters a sentence of the form 'x pontificates' may thereby say of something that it pontificates.)
Definition  (3)  refers  explicitly  to  assertibles;  but  predicables  are  also contained  in  other  types  of  self-complete  sayable.  Should  we  suppose di◊erent predicables for di◊erent self-complete sayables? (Does the verb in 'Is Socrates writing?' signify an interrogative predicable, distinct from but  no  doubt  closely  related  to  the  predicable  signified  by  the  verb  in
'Socrates writes'?) The fragments of the  Logical Investigations  show that, for Chrysippus, one and the same predicable may feature in di◊erent sorts of  self-complete  sayable.  And  definition  (3)  indirectly  supports  this notion:  a  predicable  is  something  which  will  make  an   assertible  if  put together with the right items (although it will of course generate other sayables in other surroundings). 
Definition (3) also invokes a 'nominative case'. Why only the nominative? and why, indeed, a case, in the singular? The definition restricts predicables to the meanings of verbs which produce a sentence when they are concatenated  with  a  single  noun  in  the  nominative  case;  and  it  ignores one-place  verbs  which  take  an  oblique  case,  and  many-placed  verbs. 
Definitions (1) and (2) are not thus restrictive. According to definition (2), a predicable is 'put together about some thing or some things':166 the plural  disjunct,  'or  some  things',  is  presumably  meant  to  add  something. 
Now verbs take plural as well as singular subjects, and perhaps the definition intends to make it clear that predicables may be said of a plurality of items as well as of a single item.167 But perhaps the plural was intended to meet the needs of many-placed verbs. 
However that may be, the Stoics were aware of such items. Porphyry outlines what he calls 'the Stoic classification of the terms predicated in propositions'. 
166 Cf. Cic.  Tusc. iv.9.21: . . .  earum rerum (⫽πραγµα!των?)  quae dicuntur de quodam aut quibusdam, quae  κατηγορη!µατα  dialectici appellant . . . 
167 Note that Chrysippus wrote about singular and plural expressions: D.L. vii.192; and self-complete  λεκτα! will presumably be either singular or plural (see e.g. S.E.  M  x.99). Chrysippus'
 Logika Ze-te-mata,  PHerc.  307, refers more than once to singular and plural  predicables (fr. 1.5-7; i.15-20; ii.21-6): see Marrone 1984. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
l i n g u i s t i c s
205
What is predicated is predicated either of a name or of a case; and either it is complete as predicated and self-su√cient, together with the subject, for the generation of an assertion, or else it is deficient and needs some addition in order to make a complete predicate. Now if it makes an assertion when predicated of a name, they call it a predicable or a concomitant (συ!µβαµα)  (both  words  mean  the  same):  thus  'walks'  -  e.g.  'Socrates walks'. If when predicated of a case, they call it a quasi-concomitant, as though it resembles a concomitant and is as it were a quasi-predicable: thus 'it rues' (µεταµε!λει) - e.g. 'it rues Socrates' (Σωκρα!τει µεταµε!λει). 
Again, if what is predicated of a name requires the addition of a case of some name in order to make an assertion, it is said to be less than a predicable: thus 'loves', 'favours' - e.g. 'Plato loves' (when Dio is added to this it makes a definite assertion, 'Plato loves Dio'). If what is predicated of a case needs to be put together with another oblique case to make an assertion, it is said to be less than a quasi-concomitant: thus µε!λει ('there is care') e.g. Σωκρα!τει  'Αλκιβια!δου µε!λει ('to Socrates there is care for Alcibiades', i.e. 'Socrates cares for Alcibiades'). (Ammon.  Int. 44.19-45.6) The passage is contaminated with Peripatetic terminology, but its Stoic credentials are not to be denied.168
Two intersecting distinctions are made, from which four types of deficient sayable emerge. Among (Greek) verbs, some take a noun in the nominative as their subject, while others take a noun in an oblique case. (The Greek  for  'Socrates  changes  his  mind'  is  Σωκρα!τει  µεταµε!λει,  where µεταµε!λει is impersonal and Σωκρα!τει is in the dative.) Call sayables signified  by  the  former  sort  of  verb   direct  predicables,  those  by  the  latter oblique predicables. Again, some verbs make a sentence when attached to a single  noun,  others  require  something  more  ('walks'  needs  one  noun, 
'loves'  two).  Call  sayables  signified  by  the  former  sort  of  verb   complete predicables,  those  signified  by  the  latter   deficient  predicables.  Then  the Stoics, according to Porphyry, distinguished: (1) complete direct predicables, which they called concomitants, or simply predicables; (2) complete  oblique  predicables  or  quasi-concomitants;  (3)  deficient  direct predicables or less-than-predicables; and (4) deficient oblique predicables or less-than-quasi-concomitants. 
They  thereby  saw  something  which  Peripatetic  logic  missed,  namely 168 Similar material in: Steph.  Int. 11.2-21; Anon.  Int. 3.6-17; ΣLucian 128; Priscian  Inst. Gramm. 
xvii.4-5; Suda  s.v. συ!µβαµα (see Hülser 1987-8, 954-7); also Ap. Dysc.  Synt. iii.155, 187 (see Hülser 1987-8, 946-9);  Pron. 115.9-13. Note also the casual reference to a 'less than a predicable' at Stob.  Ecl. ii.7.6a (for the text see Long and Sedley 1987, vol. ii, 390); and observe that D.L. vii.64 originally alluded to at least some of the material (the lacuna will have contained the contrast to τα' µε'ν συµβα!µατα . . .). 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
206
l a n g u a g e
the distinction between what we now call monadic and polyadic predicates.  But  their  vision  was  partial  and  blurred.  First,  the  distinction between complete and deficient predicables corresponds to a distinction between  monadic  and   dyadic  predicates  and  nothing  suggests  that  the Stoics had grasped the general notion of a  poly adic predicate. Secondly, the distinction is interlaced with another distinction which is of no logical  interest:  the  distinction  between  direct  and  oblique  predicables merely reflects an idiosyncrasy of Greek grammar. Finally, there is no evidence that any Stoic exploited the distinction in his account of inference and syllogism - the distinction remained logically inert. 
But  Chrysippus  wrote  at  length  on  predicables;  and  his   Logical Investigations  shows how detailed - and how recherché - his discussions could be. In particular, he wrote  On Upright and Supine Predicables (D.L. 
vii.191),169 and  this  distinction  is  closely  related  to  the  distinctions rehearsed by Porphyry:
Some predicables are upright, some supine, some neutral. Upright are those which are put together with one of the oblique cases to generate a predicable e.g. 'hears', 'sees', 'converses'. Supine are those put together with the passive particle e.g. 'I am heard', 'I am seen'. Neutral are those of which neither is the case: e.g. 'to think', 'to walk'. (D.L. vii.64)170
Little  is  known  of  the  doctrine  summarized  here:  'the  Stoics  did  much work in this area, but their teaching and most of their writings are now lost' (Simp.  Cat. 334.1-3). 
The  terminology,  allegedly  taken  from  wrestling,  was  adopted  by  the grammarians  and  used  for  the  active  ('upright')  and  passive  ('supine') moods;171 and the Stoic distinction, although it was not primarily linguistic, presumably somehow reflects these grammatical notions. Thus neutral predicables will have answered roughly to intransitive verbs, uprights and supines  to  transitive  verbs;  and  the  distinction  between  upright  and supine will have matched the linguistic distinction between active and passive. It is tempting to connect all this with the distinctions reported by Porphyry; but there is no easy way to produce a satisfying synthesis. 
*
169 The  matter  is  alluded  to  in  the   Logika  Ze-te-mata,  PHerc.  307:  fr.  3.4-18;  i.23;  ii.17-21:  see Marrone 1984. Note also the  Περι' συµβαµα!των (D.L. vii.192 - if von Arnim was right to emend the MS reading συναµµα!των). 
170 D.L. adds a reference to reciprocals, α0ντιπεπονθο!τα; but the text is uncertain, and the two other passages which refer to them are obscure (Phil.  Cher. 79-81; Orig.  Cels. vi.57 - neither of whom mentions the Stoics). See Hülser 1987-8, 962-3. 
171 See ΣDThrax 247.10-11; 401.1-20; 548.34-549.3. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
l i n g u i s t i c s
207
Predicables were discussed in detail and from several points of view.172
And  predicables  are  'parts'  of  complete  sayables.  What  of  their  other parts? In the simple sentence 'Socrates writes' a proper name is combined with the verb: presumably the name has a meaning. Does it signify a sayable, and is the complete sayable expressed by 'Socrates writes' composed of  two  deficient  sayables,  one  expressed  by  'writes'  and  the  other  by
'Socrates'? And what of common nouns or 'appellatives' such as the word
'cow'? Or of the demonstrative pronouns ('this', 'ου9το') which were of such importance to Stoic logic?173
Predicables were said to combine with cases, πτω!σει. Cases are not utterances,  but  rather  objects  which  are  signified;174 and  we  should therefore expect proper names and the rest to signify cases. Sextus speaks of cases as the items signified by common nouns:
By  this  utterance  ('κυ!ων',  'dog')  is  signified  the  case  under  which  the barking animal falls . . . (S.E.  M  xi.29)
The utterance signifies the case, and items in the world fall under the case. 
Cases stand to appellatives as predicables stand to verbs. The same view emerges from a text in Clement:
Cases are agreed to be incorporeal - hence the sophism is solved as follows:  'What  you  say  comes  out  of  your  mouth'  -  true;  'But  you  say  a house: therefore a house comes out of your mouth' false; for we do not say the house, which is a body, but the case, which is incorporeal and which the house obtains. (Clem.  Strom. viii.9.26.5)175
It seems reasonable to assume that proper names too signify incorporeal cases.176
As for demonstrative pronouns, one passage reports that they 'signify a reference  (δει4ξι)  or  an  anaphora'  (ΣDThrax  518.39-519.3).  This  might 172 I have not mentioned tenses, for which see above, pp. 190-3. 
173 For di◊erent views on these matters see e.g. Egli 1967, 31; Long 1971c, 104-6; Nuchelmans 1973, 57, 68 (two contradictory positions); Baldassarri 1984, 81-3. 
174 So, explicitly, ΣDThrax 230.34-6 (but he does not explicitly mention the Stoics, and in some texts πτω!σει are said or implied to be nouns: see Atherton 1993, 279-89); see e.g. Delamarre 1980. 
175 Clement is purporting to represent a Stoic view (the sophism was propounded by Chrysippus, D.L. vii.187, with a wagon instead of a house); and the passage from which this text is extracted has been treated as an important document for various Stoic notions. Alas, Clement is irremediably confused. 
176 But note D.L. vii.58: 'an appellative, according to Diogenes of Babylon, is a part of speech signifying a common quality - e.g. man, horse; a name is a part of speech showing a proper quality
- e.g. Diogenes, Socrates'. Qualities are bodies. Hence either cases are not incorporeal or nouns do not signify cases. Perhaps Diogenes of Babylon held a heterodox view? or perhaps the report in D.L. is mistaken? 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
208
l a n g u a g e
suggest that the meaning of a demonstrative is given by its reference (you understand what 'he' means in the sentence 'He is writing' if and only if you know who 'he' is being used to refer to); and then there is no case or πτω4σι intervening between the word and its referent. But elsewhere we are told that in the sayable expressed by the sentence 'ου/το περιπατει4', a predicable is linked to a deictic case (πτω4σι). Hence demonstratives, like proper names and appellatives, signify incorporeal cases. 
Sextus reports that proper names signify sayables: at  M  viii.11-12 the name 'Dio' signifies a sayable which the man Dio in turn 'obtains';177 and elsewhere he says that the Stoics
take self-complete sayables178 to be composite: thus 'It is day' is composed of 'day' and 'it is'. ( M  viii.79)
He no doubt construes the word 'day' as an appellative; and he strongly suggests  that  both  parts  of  the  assertible  'It  is  day'  are  sayables.  At   M
viii.83  'Socrates  is'  is  treated  in  the  same  way  as  'It  is  day':  the  proper name 'Socrates' is implicitly taken to signify a sayable. Appellatives and proper  names  signify  sayables.  And  since  they  also  signify  cases,  cases must be a special type of sayable. 
If names and the like signify sayables, then presumably they can be used to  say  something. But can words such as 'cow' and 'Dio' and 'this' be so used? No ancient text hints at an answer. A guess: you understand what an appellative,  A  ('cow'),  means  if  and  only  if  you  know  that  anyone  who utters a sentence of the form 'x is an A (a cow)' can thereby say of something that it falls into the class of Fs (that it is an animal of such and such a sort). 
You understand what a name, N ('Dio'), means if and only if you know that anyone who utters a sentence of the form 'x is N (Dio)' can thereby say of something that it is b (Dio). You understand what a demonstrative α ('this') means if and only if you know that anyone who utters a sentence of the form 'φδ' can thereby say of the item to which he is adverting that it is φ. 
However that may be, even if words like 'this' and 'Dio' signify non-corporeal cases, they are surely also (and at the same time) used to refer to something other than a case - to this thing, to Dio himself. And in fact several  texts  report  that  external  items  'obtain'  (τυγχα!νειν)  or  fall  under (πι!πτειν)  cases:  Dio  and  dogs  fall  under  or  obtain  the  cases  which  the words  'Dio'  and  'dog'  signify.179 Although  these  notions  are  nowhere 177 The text of the crucial sentence (. . . ε2ν δε' α0σω!µατον ω1σπερ το' σηµαινο!µενον πρα4γµα και' 
λεκτο'ν ο3περ α0ληθε! τε γι!νεται η2 ψευ4δο) may be corrupt; but  M  viii.75 takes up the same example and unmistakably implies that there is a sayable signified by 'Dio'. 
178 Text after Heintz. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
l i n g u i s t i c s
209
explained, it is natural to suppose that an item obtains or falls under a case insofar as a word which signifies the case refers to the item. 
Cases  have  items  falling  under  them:  does  anything  else?  Are  there items which fall under predicables? or under complete sayables? The passage at  M  viii.11-12 has suggested a luxuriant theory: any sentence, S, signifies  a  self-complete  sayable,  Λ,  which  in  turn  may  be  obtained  by  an item in the world, I; and each significant part of S signifies a deficient sayable, which is a part of Λ, and which may be obtained by an item in the world, which in turn is a part of I. 
The luxuriant theory faces some di√cult questions; and the evidence for ascribing it to the Stoics is exiguous. Perhaps, then, it was only cases which enjoyed obtainers. And perhaps these obtainers are not really part of the Stoic semantic theory at all: in order to know what A, or N, means we do not need to know what A, or N, refers to except insofar as knowing that x falls into the class of Fs, or that it is b, is itself a way of knowing what A, or N, refers to. 
So much for verbs and names. But there are also other parts of speech, and it is natural to wonder whether the Stoics associated incomplete sayables with such things as adverbs and connectives. In particular, we might expect the Stoics to have said something about connectives; for otherwise their semantic views will not have engaged with sentences central to their logical concerns. The evidence bearing on this issue is meagre and di√cult to assess;180 but we are least ill informed about connectives. 
Connectives fall into the hospitable class of συ!νδεσµοι, a class which also includes prepositions and verbal prefixes.181 And we know that Posidonius, in his  On Connectives, argues against those who say that connectives do not show anything but only bind the expression together. 
(Ap. Dysc.  Conj. 214.4-6)
It isnot clear who or what Posidonius182 wasattacking. Late Peripatetic textsendorse the view that only nounsand verbshave genuine signification in their own right: other linguistic items merely 'co-signify'. It is possible that thisview goesback to Theophrastus, who held that nouns and verbs are the only partsof  logos, other linguistic items being parts of  lexis (Simp.  Cat. 
10.23-7); and perhapsPosidoniuswasattacking a Theophrastan theory. 
179 S.E.  M  viii.12, 75 ('Dio'); xi. 29 ('dog'); cf. Clem.  Strom. viii.9.26.5; Plu.  Col. 1119f. And note two controversial texts: on Simp.  Cat. 209.10-14 see Mansfeld  apud  Hülser 1987-8, 1068-71; Stob. 
 Ecl. i.12.3 (⫽ Arius Didymus) is either corrupt or confused. 
180 See Atherton 1993, 304-10. 
181 See above, p. 189. 
182 Here, and at  Synt.iv.65, Ap. Dysc. is surely referring to the Stoic Posidonius: Kidd 1988, ii.20 0. 
Posidonius' view was accepted by Chaeremon: Ap. Dysc.  Conj. 248.1-12. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
210
l a n g u a g e
Nor is it clear what view Posidonius himself preferred. In particular, it is not clear whether he gave an account of the meaning of connectives in terms of 'intermediate' items - whether, in other words, he thought that connectives signified sayables. Such an account is not di√cult to formulate. For example: you know what 'and' means if and only if you know that anyone who utters a sentence of the form 'S and S*', where S means that P and S* means that Q, can thereby say that P and Q. 
*
Why did the Stoics introduce sayables in the first place? It is often supposed that the word 'λεκτο!ν' was first used by Cleanthes of predicables; then  extended  by  Chrysippus  to  cover  self-complete  sayings;  and  later stretched to include the meaning of any part of speech.183 The only evidence  for  this  pretty  story  comes  from  Clement,  who  remarks  that
'Cleanthes and Archedemus call predicables sayables' ( Strom. viii.9.26.4); but  Clement  does  not  mean  that  Cleanthes  (and  Archedemus)  used  the word 'sayable'  exclusively  of predicables. In any event, we may still wonder why  the  Stoics  wanted  to  insinuate  something  between  words  and  the world, and why the items which they insinuated were sayables rather than something else. 
The Stoics did not, so far as we know, argue for the existence of sayables. After all, it is evident that there are sayables; for it is evident that we can say things and sayables are simply what we can say. In a sense, then, neither the Peripatetics nor the Epicureans can have denied the existence of sayables; rather, they held that there was no need to posit sayables  in addition to  certain other items. The Stoics di◊ered from their colleagues in according a special status to sayables. What was this status? 
First, sayables figure regularly in the standard list of Stoic incorporeals: time, place, void, sayables; and a dozen texts repeat the claim that sayables have no body.184 The point was hardly contested within the school185 -
and yet it cannot have been an obvious or a welcome truth. Not obvious, since the Stoics were notorious materialists who saw solid stu◊ in virtues and  vices,  impulses  and  assents  (Plu.  Comm.  Not.  1084a);  not  welcome, since on Stoic theory only bodies can act and be acted on186 - and sayables appear to do both. They appear to be acted upon, insofar as certain assertibles may change their truth-value and others may perish. They appear to 183 See e.g. Hülser 1987-8, 832-3; cf. Nuchelmans 1973, 47, 71-2. 
184 The four incorporeals: e.g. S.E.  M  x.218; xi.224, 230;  M  i.28 (see e.g. Bréhier 1910). Sayables as incorporeal: e.g. S.E.  PH  vii.81;  M  vii.38; viii.12, 69, 258, 409; ix.211; xi.224;  M  i.20, 155-6; Plu. 
 Comm.  Not.  1074de;  D.L.  vii.140  (reading  τα' λεκτα! with  von  Arnim  for  ταυ4τα);  Sen.  Ep. 
117.13; Cleom. i.i.8. 
185 Except by Basilides: S.E.  M  viii.258. 
186 E.g. Cic.  Acad. ii.39 (Zeno): see below, pp. 383 and 481-3. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
l i n g u i s t i c s
211
act: proofs, which are sets of sayables, may a◊ect us in one way or another (S.E.  M  viii.409-10); being wise, which is a predicable, benefits us (Sen. 
 Ep. 117.2-3). The Stoics conjured away these appearances. Their presti-digitations could have been avoided had they simply declared sayables to be  corporeal.  And  there  is  worse:  not  only  are  sayables  not  corporeal  -
they do not even exist. A sayable is something, τι; but it does not exist, it is not ο3ν (Plu.  Col. 1116bc;  Comm. Not. 1074d). 
No text expressly tells us why the Stoics adopted these theses. In his account  of  the  Stoic  theory  of  concept  formation  Diogenes  Laertius reports that 'things are also conceived of in virtue of a sort of transference (µετα!βασι) - e.g. sayables and place' (vii.53). Now the fact that the  con-
 cept  of X is got by 'transference' from Y might perhaps have been taken to show  that  X's  are  essentially  dependent  on  Y's  and  hence  are  not  'real'
existents. But Diogenes Laertius does not report such an argument (nor does he indicate  what  was the base from which the concept of a sayable was  transferred).  Nonetheless,  the  Stoic  theses  are  coherent  -  indeed, plausible. Of course,  there are  sayables; that is to say, people can (and do) say things. But sayables do not really  exist: Chrysippus uttered the sentence Σοφο' ο/ Ζη!νων and thereby said that Zeno was wise; Chrysippus existed, and so did the sounds he uttered (and so, come to that, did Zeno); and there is the sayable which he said - but this is not some further item in the world, distinct from Chrysippus and his utterance.187
Next,  how  do  sayables  relate  to  utterances  and  to  thoughts?  Plainly there are unsaid sayables - there are things which we can say and which no one has said or ever will say.188 Plainly, too, there are unthought sayables
- there are things which we can say and which no one has thought or ever will think.189 But two theses connecting sayables and thinking may plausibly be ascribed to the Stoics: every sayable is thinkable, or whatever can be said can be thought; and every sayable which is said is also thought, or whatever is being said is being thought. 
In more than one text, sayables are closely allied to presentations, and hence to thoughts, in the following way:
A sayable, they say, is what subsists in accordance with a rational presentation; and a presentation is rational if what is presented in accordance with it can be set out in a λο!γο. (S.E.  M  viii.70)190
187 'But  then  the  Stoic  theory  is  barely  distinguishable,  ontologically  speaking,  from  the Epicurean.' Exactly. 
188  Pace  S.E.  M  viii.80: 'every sayable must be said - that is how it got its name'. 
189 See Barnes 1993c;  contra  D.L. vii.43, which is muddled or corrupt; and Syr.  Met. 105.19-30, which conveys a late misunderstanding. 
190 Cf. D.L. vii.63 (with Suda  s.v.  κατηγο!ρηµα); S.E.  M  viii.12. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
212
l a n g u a g e
The second sentence is di√cult;191 but what matters here is that rational presentations are to be identified with  thoughts (D.L. vii.51). The first sentence is also di√cult: I take it to mean that if something is sayable, then it corresponds  to  a  rational  presentation,  its  content  is  the  content  of  a rational presentation; or in other words: if something is sayable, then it is thinkable - indeed, if x can say that, then x can think that. 
The second thesis emerges from the following passage:
Saying,  they  say,  is  producing  an  utterance  which  means  the  object which is being thought. (S.E.  M  viii.80)
I  say  something  at  a  time  t  if  and  only  if  at  t  I  produce  an  utterance  U
which signifies a sayable S and in addition I am thinking S at t. Or rather, if I say S it is not merely that I utter U  while  thinking S; rather, my uttering U  is  in  part   caused  by  my  thinking  S.  For,  in  the  words  of  Diogenes  of Babylon, 
it is plausible that speech (λο!γο), being given significance and as it were stamped by the thoughts in the intellect, should be emitted and should extend  in  time  for  as  long  as  the  thinking  and  the  activity  of  saying last.192
The metaphor suggests that the sentences which I utter would be sense-less  had  I  not  given  them  my  intellectual  stamp;  but  the  suggestion  is false (I cannot create significance in my utterances, nor can I stamp them at will). Diogenes' argument, however, requires only the following thesis: I say S at t only if, at t, I utter U, which means S, because I am thinking  S.  My  thinking  does  not  endow  my  utterance  with  meaning:  it ensures that its meaning is my meaning and it thereby distinguishes me from a babbler or a parrot. (According to Chrysippus, parrots and infants
'do not speak but as it were speak',  non loqui sed ut loqui: Varro  LL  vi.56.) One  final  question  about  the  'ontology'  of  sayables  may  be  mooted: what are the identity conditions for sayables? when is S1 the same as S2? 
The question arises in at least two fields in which the Stoics laboured: it arises  in  connection  with  definitions  (which  induce  synonymy  -  and hence sameness of sayables); and it arises in connection with ambiguity (which points to di◊erence of sayables). No ancient text suggests that the Stoics discussed the question of 'same-saying'. 
*
191 For a di◊erent translation see Kerferd 1978b, 253-4. 
192  Apud  Gal.  PHP  v.242, where there are also similar fragments of Chrysippus: see Tieleman 1996. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
l i n g u i s t i c s
213
The twin strengths of the Stoic theory are plain: meanings are explained in terms of saying and thus placed firmly in the public realm - no hint of the 'private thoughts' which bedevilled the history of semantics for two millennia; and at the same time, the theory is ontologically parsimonious
- it does not invent entities (not even sayables, which do not exist). The weakness is this. The Stoic theory rests heavily on the notion of saying -
and yet it o◊ers no account of the identity conditions for sayables, it does not explain when you and I say the same thing. 
*
Like  other  philosophers193 the  Stoics  pay  attention  to  ambiguities.194
Their definition is: 'an ambiguity is an expression which signifies two or even more things, as far as expression is concerned, taken in its proper sense, and according to one and the same linguistic idiom. This expression consequently makes the plurality of meanings understood simultaneously'.195 Diogenes' instance concerns a written text,196 and Galen too has written expressions in mind when he refers to a list of eight types of ambiguity distinguished by 'the more refined Stoics',197 in order to prove its inferiority to Aristotle's distinction of sophisms παρα' τη!ν λε!ξιν: (amphiboly which is)
(1)  common  to  what  is  divided  and  what  is  non-divided  (Diogenes'
example); 
(2) due to homonymy in single words (α0νδρει4ο, meaning both 'manly, brave' and 'belonging to a man'); 
(3) due to homonymy in complex expressions (α3νθρωπο! ε0στιν), referring to the existence of either the substance (ου0σι!α, 'man is') or the case (πτω4σι, ' "man" is');198
(4) due to omission (example corrupt);199
193 From Democritus (DK 68 b26) onwards. 
194 Witness Chrysippus' seven treatises on this subject (D.L. vii.193) and cf. Gell. xi.12.1. More on this in Atherton 1993. 
195 D.L. vii.62. This definition thus excludes amphibolies arising from metaphorical or di◊erent local usages. 
196 ΑΥΛΗΤΡΙΣΠΕΠΤΩΚΕΝ meaning  either  'a  flutegirl  has  fallen'  or  'a  court  has  fallen  three times'. For centuries Greek was written without word division. 
197  On  Fallacies  4.  A  partially  parallel  text  in  Theon   Prog.  81.30-83.13;  cf.  Quint.  Inst.  vii.9. 
Augustine  Dial. 8 contains an extensive list of types of  ambiguitas, which list is a blend of logical, grammatical and rhetorical doctrines but looks essentially Stoic (Ebbesen 1981, i.38-9). 
198 Thus  Ebbesen  1981,  i.36  and  n.  41.  Di◊erently,  referring  to  the  'Nobody'  sophism  (D.L. 
vii.186 -7), Edlow 1975, 429-30. 
199 Probably: 'Of which are you?' For the middle word is omitted, e.g. 'master', 'father' (Galen's text as restored by Sedley in Long and Sedley 1987, vol. ii, 230-1). Some link with the sophism in Arist.  SE  179b39-180a7 seems present,  pace  Sedley. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
214
l a n g u a g e
(5) due to pleonasm (α0πηγο!ρευσεν αυ0τ 4 µη' πλει4ν, admitting of the interpretations 'he forbade him to sail' and 'he forbade him not to sail'); (6) due to uncertainty to which word a non-significant part belongs; (7) the same but now for a signifying word;200
(8) amphiboly which does not show what refers to what (∆ι!ων  <ε0στι
και'> Θε!ων,201 'Dion <is also> Theon', or  vice versa, or 'Dion is, also Theon', meaning that both are existing). 
The Stoic types of ambiguity look like a mixed bag and are probably based on the following distinctions: (A) single words (1)-(5), divided into cases of  homonymy  of  single  words,  words  in  combination  and  both  at  the same time (1)-(3), and cases of omission and redundancy (4)-(5);202 (B) construction of words (6)-(8).203 The di◊erence between types (2) and (3) will be that α0νδρει4ο has two meanings whereas type (3) adverts to the fact that every word, in addition to its regular signification(s), is also its own name, a point stressed in reports on the sophism 'what you say goes through your mouth'.204 Ambiguities (6) and (7) involve both joining or separating morphemes and introducing pauses in the continuous script and  look  therefore  at  an  act  of  συ!νταξι.205 Type  (8)  is  comparable  to phrases  with  two  accusatives  in  an  accusative-infinitive  construction which Aristotle examines206 and in which the governing role of the constituents is unclear. Despite the presence of a syntactical aspect in types (1) and (3) they concern the ambiguity of one word only and this marks them o◊ from types (7) and (8). 
Galen deplores the absence of a type due to προσ δι!α, which covers accent, breathing and quantity, but type (6) seems related to this. In all, the Aristotelian list of six types of sophisms due to linguistic features207
has  been  radically  rearranged  by  the  Stoics.  The  main  di◊erence  in approach is that Aristotle lists types of sophistical arguments whereas the Stoic classification has a much wider scope of linguistic ambiguities. Thus while Aristotle distinguishes one type based on amphiboly, the Stoics use amphibolia  as a general term. 
200 The examples concern two epic lines; the latter line is also discussed by Arist.  SE  166a37. 
201 Text as restored by Sedley in Long and Sedley 1987, vol. ii, 230-1. 
202 These are part of the  quadripertita ratio  of  adiectio,  detractio,  translatio  and  mutatio (Ax 1987), cf. 
above, p. 182. These categories recur in Sextus' account of the Stoic classification of inconclusive  arguments  ( M  viii.429-34  and   PH  ii.146-50)  -  and  in  Quintilian's  list  of  means  of  disambiguation (Ebbesen 1981, i.32-3). 
203 The main distinction of types (A) and (B) is in agreement with that of Aristotle between λο!γο
and ο3νοµα in cases of homonymy and amphiboly ( SE  166a15-16) and that in Quint.  Inst. vii.9. 
204 D.L. vii.187 and Clem.  Strom. viii.9.26.5 with the telling word πτω4σι. 
205 Cf. Desbordes 1990, 227-34. 
206 E.g.  SE  166a22-32. 
207  SE  4. Homonymy, amphiboly, joining and separation of words, προσ δι!α  and σχη4µα  τη4
λε!ξεω, e.g. active forms of verbs not meaning an activity. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
l i n g u i s t i c s
215
The examples sometimes betray trivial pursuits208 but are intended to drive home the idea that sentences may conceal ambiguity, which fact can hinder the right way of doing dialectic. Disambiguation is often very easy to achieve provided one considers the examples in their context. But most discussions of ambiguity start from isolated cases. Perhaps the Stoics said that ambiguous expressions are disambiguated by their context, for we find such statements later.209
This theory influences both rhetoric and grammar. The lists of Theon and Quintilian (see note 197) are rhetorical applications. Of more importance is the influence on the theory of  status  by Hermagoras210 and the reception of α0µφιβολι!α in the wide sense under the tropes. Thus grammarians adopt α0µφιβολι!α under the vices of style ( vitia orationis).211
*
At the end of his survey of the  topos  περι' φωνη4 Diogenes lists short definitions of some notions, like 'definition', 'outline' and 'partition', which the Stoics use as tools of methodology. The presence of these items here is not self-evident, witness Diogenes' remark 'according to some Stoics', but they appear nowhere else.212 The list consists of nine items213 and after this comes α0µφιβολι!α, the presence of which together with solecism etc. 
elsewhere214 is less surprising. These methods are much used in ethical texts, and Chrysippus' treatises concerning definitions are put under his ethical works.215 One understands the predicament of some Stoics where to put these in their system.216
Partition occurs when a generic subject matter is split up into its sub-headings but does not imply that these are species; they are more like sec-tors  of  discussion.217 In  contrast  with  Platonic  and  Aristotelian dihaeretic  methods  the  host  of  Stoic  definitions  does  not  look  like  the result of διαι!ρεσι.218 Within definitions Stoics allow for looser definitions,  called  'outline  accounts',  a  term  taken  over  from  Aristotle.  By means of an outline one o◊ers initial help for discussion. The true nature 208 Cf. Arist.  SE  166a18-21 on ε0πι!σταται γρα!µµατα, 'he knows letters' and 'letters have knowledge'. 
209 Ap. Dysc.  Pron. 52.2-8; Quint.  Inst. vii.9.9; Aug.  Dial. 8. 
210 Frs.  12  and  20;  but  the  Stoic  Nestor  (date  unknown)  eliminates  this   status (ΣHermog.  Stat. 
vii.1.226.13-20). 
211 Because of its obscurity. Ebbesen 1981, i.36-40. 
212 D.L. vii.60-2 cf. 44. 
213 Definition (ο3ρο); outline (υ/πογραφη!, a simpler kind of definition); division (διαι!ρεσι) and its  related  notions  of  contradivision  (α0ντιδιαι!ρεσι) and subdivision (υ0ποδιαι!ρεσι); genus (γε!νο) and species (ει:δο); concept (ε0ννο!ηµα) and partition (µερισµο!). Related texts in  FDS
622-31. 
214 D.L. vii.44. Cf. Schenkeveld 1990a, 89-96. 
215 D.L. vii.199-20 0. 
216 For the sake of completeness they are discussed here. 
217 Μερισµο! is to grammarians the 'parsing' of words. 
218 Long and Sedley 1987, vol. i, 193. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
216
l a n g u a g e
of a subject, however, must be revealed by the true definition. Chrysippus defines it as 'a representation of a peculiar characteristic' and Antipater as
'a statement of analysis matchingly expressed'. Chrysippus' peculiar characteristic (ι3διον) is an essential, not just a unique, feature. By 'matchingly'
(α0παρτιζο!ντω) Antipater apparently means that a true definition is neither too broad nor too narrow, whereas the term 'analysis' may point to the division by genus and species.219
ii Rhetoric
About 160 bc the debate on the status of rhetoric started by Plato gets a new  impetus,220 which  is  caused  by  a  renascence  of  rhetorical  studies. 
Under the Hellenistic kings oratory loses parts only of its domain, but for unknown reasons teaching in rhetoric steeply declines until the start of the second century. The teachers of rhetoric, now called σοφισται!, have a high  rating  because  they  instruct  aspiring  politicians.  The  same  goal  is professed by philosophers and hence there is a revival of the philosophers'
debate on the art of rhetoric.221
The  main  challenge  to  rhetoric  is  that  it  is  not  an  art  or  expertise (τε!χνη). Additional arguments are that it does not make individuals or states happy and that an orator is often constrained to defend criminals. 
Moreover,  one  can  be  a  good  orator  without  formal  training  and,  conversely, many instructors of rhetoric are poor speakers. But the chief point of the attack is that rhetoric is not an organized body of knowledge,222 so that the rhetorician is not an artist or expert.223 Thus the debate turns on the question whether with Aristotle one accepts rhetoric as an art even though like dialectic it does not belong to a specific field of knowledge, or rejects his argument.224
*
219 D.L. vii.60. Another definition of Antipater's, 'a statement expressed with necessary force', and explained  by  'with  reciprocal  force  inasmuch  as  a  definition  is  meant  to  be  reciprocal'
(ΣDThrax 107.4-6), should be linked with Chrysippus' statement about the relation between universal propositions and definitions (S.E.  M  xi.8-11, see above, p. 113). 
220 Traditionally linked with the Athenian embassy of three philosophers to Rome in 155 bc (Cic. 
 De or. ii.155). 
221 See  Goudriaan  1988.  Critolaus,  Carneades  and  Diogenes  are  mentioned  in  this  connection (Phld.  Rhet.  books  i-iii;  Cic.  De or.  i.91;  96-112;  Quint.  Inst.  ii.17.1-4;  S.E.  M  ii.10-47). 
Discussion in Barnes 1986d with earlier studies. 
222 This definition of τε!χνη is Stoic but accepted by many others, see Hülser 1987-8, 426-7. 
223 Phld.  Rhet.,  PHerc. 1672, ii.xxviii.2-15 and S.E.  M  ii.9-10. 
224 Cic.  De or.  i.91 reports debates on this subject held in the late second century by Charmadas the Academic  and  the  rhetorician  Metrodorus;  the  accounts  in  Quintilian  and  Sextus  probably reflect a contemporary revival of the issue (Barnes 1986d, n. 20). 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
r h e t o r i c
217
After Theophrastusthe Peripatosno longer, so far aswe know, makesorigi-nal contributionsto rhetorical theory. Demetriusof Phaleron, Hieronymus of Rhodes and others write on several aspects but leave almost no trace in the tradition and Critolauswith hispupilsreject rhetoric.225 Thispicture agreeswith the fact that Cicero and Quintilian mention these individual Peripateticsa few timesonly, much les
soften than Aris
totle and
Theophrastus. However, according to Quintilian 'especially the leaders of the Stoics and Peripatetics' studied rhetoric more zealously than rhetoricians, and Cicero too speaks of 'very many precepts' left by Aristotle's followers.226 In their reconstruction of the history of rhetoric they probably follow a tradition in which recollection of Peripatetic contributionsisstill alive but these are mainly Aristotle's and Theophrastus'.227
Ancient sources stress a consistently hostile attitude of Epicureans to most rhetorical activities.228 Now Philodemus asserts that Epicurus and his followers Metrodorus and Hermarchus accept an art of sophistic rhetoric.229 Philodemus'  thesis  is  that  there  is  a  τε!χνη,  called  σοφιστικη!, which concerns written and impromptu speeches of an epideictic kind, but that this art is not competent in instruction in forensic and symbouleutic oratory. For these latter genres no art at all is competent. By analysis of  statements  of  Epicurus  and  Metrodorus  he  tries  to  show  that  these
'Men' are of the same opinion, but then he interpolates his own ideas into the  text  of  Metrodorus  and  misrepresents  the  views  of  the  Men.230
Epicurus did write a book on rhetoric but in this he will have urged the rejection of all types of rhetoric. 
More is known about the Stoic theory of rhetoric though their contribution  is  now  seen  as  less  important  than  in  previous  studies.231
Rhetoric, the 'science (ε0πιστη!µη) of speaking well', is closely connected with dialectic, both being parts of 'logic'.232 These sciences can only be practised well by the infallible wise man, who will thus play a role in society unless circumstances make this impossible.233 The Stoics distinguish 225 Wehrli 1969d, 125 with references. 
226 Quint.  Inst. iii.1.13-15; Cic.  Inv.  ii.7. 
227 See Kennedy 1994a. 
228 Cic.  Fin.  i.5.14,  Tusc.  ii.7;  Quint.  Inst.  ii.7.15  and  xii.2.24;  D.H.  Comp.  24,  p.  122,  8-12.  See Sedley 1989a and De Lacy 1939, 88-9 for a possible explanation of this attitude. 
229  Rhet. i,  PHerc. 1427, vii.9-29. 
230 Goudriaan 1989, 33-5 comparing  Rhet. ii,  PHerc. 1672, xxii.7-20;  lib. inc.,  PHerc. 1015/832, vol. 
i.  p.  283  Sudhaus;  and  iii,  PHerc.  1506,  xl-xli Hammerstaedt.  Di◊erently  now  Blank  1995, 186-8. 
231 See Kroll 1940, 1081 on the tendency to ascribe much to Stoics without proof. 
232 Their main di◊erence is that rhetoric involves continuous discourse (D.L. vii.41-2, cf. Zeno's illustration by means of a closed fist and an open hand, Cic.  Or. 32.114 etc.), whereas dialectic though initially restricted to the form of question and answer and later having a wider reach (Long 1978c, 102-13) never loses its purely argumentative character. 
233 D.L. vii.121-2; Phld.  Rhet.  iii,  PHerc.  1506, coll. ii and vii (vol. 2.203 f. and 209 f. Sudhaus); Cic. 
 De or. iii.18.65 and S.E.  M  ii.6. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
218
l a n g u a g e
a triad of oratorical genres and it may be indicative of their preferences that next to forensic and symbouleutic oratory they call the third one not epideictic  (display  oratory),  as  Aristotle  did,  but  encomiastic.234 The Stoic orator will be involved in all three kinds. To some Stoics, however, rhetoric was an expertise. Science di◊ers from expertise inasmuch as the former is an unchangeable disposition and the latter a tenor (ε3ξι), which admits of degrees and can be attained by not (yet) wise men. To define rhetoric as an expertise o◊ers hope for an aspiring Stoic orator to attain proficiency and, at any rate, allows for more technical instruction.235 But some problem still remains on this point.236
As to the technical part of rhetoric, Diogenes gives a very short summary, which looks like traditional theory: rhetoric has three parts, forensic,  symbouleutic  and  encomiastic.  Its  division  is  into  invention,  style (φρα!σι), disposition (τα!ξι) and delivery, and a speech consists of pro-logue,  narration,  the  part  against  the  adversaries  and  epilogue;  the absence of the traditional part of proof probably is a matter of inadvertent omission in our source.237 The stress on forensic speech is in accordance with ancient teaching. 
Stoic  presentation  is  austere,  without  much  ornament,  rather  argumentative and, at least to Cicero, unattractive.238 The style of Stoic oratory is like that of their dialectic and in accordance with their ethics of the wise man.239 With this picture agree other pieces of information about Chrysippus' exclusion of emotional appeal from the epilogue,240 which injunction derives from the Stoic abhorrence of passions, the rejection of rhetorical devices like hyperbaton which disturb the natural word-order the Stoics assume to exist,241 and the report on Chrysippus' admittance of occasional solecisms and ellipses.242
So a Stoic list of five virtues of speech (α0ρεται' λο!γου) with its inclusion of  κατασκευη! seems  to  contradict  what  a  Stoic  speaker  should  do. 
However,  in  comparison  with  Theophrastus'  canonical  list  this  group contains  one  significant  addition,  brevity  (συντοµι!α).  Moreover,  some 234 D.L. vii.142. 
235 Plu.  Stoic.  Rep. 1047a (Chrysippus); Phld.  Rhet. iii,  PHerc. 1506, col. viii (vol. 2.211 f. Sudhaus); Quint.  Inst. ii.17.2. 
236 Atherton 1988, 420-2. 
237 Atherton 1988, 398. Similar explanation for the absence of memory among the tasks of an orator. 
238 Cic.  Brut.  117-21;  Parad. Stoic. 1-3;  De orat.  i.50; ii.157-9; iii.65-7; cf. Atherton 1988, 401-5, who, rightly, points out the biassed stance of Cicero. 
239 Thus P. Rutilius Rufus, an almost perfect Stoic, when accused of extortion refuses to employ the  usual  rhetorical  devices  and  is  consequently  condemned  (Cic.  De  orat.  i.229  and   Brut. 
114-15). 
240  Rh.  Gr. i.454.1 Spengel; cf. Quint.  Inst. vi.1.7. 
241 Theon  Prog. 81.30-83.14 with Atherton's explanation (1988, 415-17). 
242 Plu.  Stoic.  Rep. 1047b. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
r h e t o r i c
219
definitions show a specifically Stoic approach. The five virtues are ε/λληνισµο!, σαφη!νεια, συντοµι!α, πρε!πον and κατασκευη! while among the vices are mentioned βαρβαρισµο! and σολοικισµο!.243 Hellenism, correct  Greek,  is  'language  faultless  in  its  technical  and  non-arbitrary usage'.244 This definition presupposes a set of rules to be followed concerning the usage of Greek.245 Often three criteria are mentioned, analogy,  linguistic  usage  and  literary  tradition,246 but  we  do  not  know whether the Stoa also applies these criteria. The next three virtues stress the  link  between  wording  and  content,  clarity  presenting  in  an  intelligible way what is thought, brevity containing the bare minimum required for clarification of the subject-matter, while appropriateness is concerned with  the  object  in  question  only.  The  audience  is  not  involved,  as  they were  in  Aristotle's  treatment.247 This  neglect  of  the  audience  also explains the elevation of brevity to the Stoic list, since common rhetoric does not require this feature in every instance. Κατασκευη!, finally, is not ornamentation in a favourable sense but avoidance of ι0διωτισµο!, vulgar-ity or colloquialism. 
All this comes down to a theory of a sober style which is applicable to both philosophy and oratory without any, or much, di◊erence between the two. Nevertheless Cicero exceptionally praises Stoic orators for their use  of  embellishment.248 Chrysippus  encourages  attention  to  various kinds of delivery249 and, indeed, in order to be successful a Stoic orator will not avoid every kind of ornament or emotion. But in principle he will eschew these as mere appendages.250
*
Direct  influence  of  Hellenistic  philosophies  on  rhetorical  theory  is di√cult to detect: thus the existence of the important theory of στα!σει
( status), a contribution of Hermagoras of Temnos and other rhetoricians, can be explained without having recourse to philosophical influence. A more  acceptable  view  is  that  rhetoricians  use  ideas  of  Aristotle  and Theophrastus but also of Isocrates, apart from what their own practice taught them. Thus they continue the instruction begun by Aristotle and Theophrastus of setting up themes for discussion251 but apply these to their own situation. Like philosophers, rhetoricians train their pupils for 243 Diogenes' phrasing (vii.59) suggests more vices; in [Herodian]  De soloec. 308.16 six vices are mentioned, one of which is  α0κυρολογι!α, use of words in an improper sense. This together with α0σα!φεια also occurs in D.H.  Lys. 4. 
244 Cf. D.L. vii.42. 
245 Frede 1978, 39-41. 
246 Siebenborn 1976, 53-5. 
247  Rhet. iii.7. 
248  De fin. iii.19. 
249 Plu.  Stoic.  Rep. 1047a-b. 
250 Hence their failure as rhetoricians: thus Atherton 1988, 425-7. 
251 E.g.  Top. 104b1-8 and 35-6. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
220
l a n g u a g e
discussing general and specific subjects. These exercises are called θε!σι
and υ/ποθε!σι respectively. A θε!σι, or an undefined question ( quaestio infinita), is 'Should one marry?' or 'Do gods exist?', but 'Should Cato marry?'
is a υ/ποθε!σι because defined ( finita).252
Some parts of Aristotle's theory of το!ποι253 recur in Hermagoras' system,  albeit  with  a  big  di◊erence.  For  whereas  Aristotle's  το!ποι (places where  to  find  arguments)  are  applicable  to  all  three  kinds  of  oratory Hermagoras focuses on judicial oratory and gives to each individual  status there a particular list of το!ποι.254 Aristotle distinguished general το!ποι, which give arguments applicable in every discipline, from specific το!ποι
and  Hermagoras  replaces  this  distinction  by   loci  communes  and   loci belonging to a specific  status. At the same time  loci communes  are now also called  the  arguments  themselves,  not  only  sources  for  arguments,  and they may be used in every situation and serve to heighten the style of the oration.255
As  to  the  theory  of  style,  the  author  of   On  Style  heavily  leans  on Aristotle's  Rhetoric  in his discussion of periodicity and prose rhythm but his  theory  of  four  styles  (and  their  vices)  is  a  development  of Theophrastus'  doctrine  of   virtutes  dicendi.256 Later  rhetoricians  follow suit for to them these virtues no longer have to prevail everywhere in a speech.  They  set  those  which  must  be  present  everywhere  (ε/λληνισµο! 
and  σαφη!νεια)  apart  from  the  others  which  may  be  present  in  specific circumstances  and  which  are  now  split  up  into  three  types  of  style.257
This system of α0ρεται! has rivals and all these find a definite form in the theory of three  genera dicendi ('high, low and mixed or middle styles').258
Rhetorical handbooks o◊er an elaborate theory of tropes and figures, which  influential  scholars  have  claimed  to  be  a  major  invention  of  the Stoics,259 but this view is now being abandoned.260 A more useful answer is that with the help of Peripatetic notions both grammarians and rhetori-252 Cic.  Or. 45-6. 
253 Theophrastus is said to have revised the topics curriculum (Alex.  Top. 55.24-7 and 125), Strato to have added a new το!πο (Alex.  Top. 339.30) and according to Chrysippus (Plu.  Stoic. Rep. 
1045f ) he was the last Peripatetic to pay attention to dialectic. See Ophuijsen 1994 for likely further indications. And above, p. 0 0 0. 
254 Calboli Montefusco 1991, 24-6.  Status  is the issue on which a speaker may base his attack or defence. The main   status  are those of conjecture, definition, quality and objection (Kennedy 1994b, 97-101). 
255 Calboli Montefusco 1991, 25-32. These  loci communes  become the 'common-places' in the sense of 'cliché, truism'. Another development concerns Aristotle's enthymeme, a rhetorical syllogism in which one premiss and/or the conclusion may be omitted. Alongside of this comes the full-blown argument, ε0πιχει!ρηµα, consisting of five parts (Cic.  De inv. 57-76). 
256 Kennedy 1989a, 196-8. 
257 D.H.  Pomp. 239.5-240.20 and  Th. 360.2-21. 
258 Schenkeveld 1964, ch. iii. 
259 Barwick 1957, 88-111 followed by Kennedy 1994b, 91-2. 
260 E.g. by Ax 1987 and Baratin and Desbordes 1987. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
p o e t i c s
221
cians gradually make systems of their own.261 Some separate evolution of these  theories  in  the  circles  of  grammarians  and  rhetoricians  must  be assumed, since from Cicero onwards di◊erences in definition, classification and terminology are linked to these groups.262
iii Poetics
In the classroom the grammarian explains classical poetry as a part of the cultural  heritage.  This  instruction  does  not  threaten  the  philosopher's status  though  problems  still  arise,  for  example,  to  what  extent  pupils should accept poetical wisdom, and, probably, this question is tackled in Chrysippus'  treatise   On  the  interpretation  of  poems,  the  subject  of  which belongs to the ethical department.263
Epicurus  may  well  have  been  hostile  to  poetry  but  later  Epicureans seem to have weakened this position to a certain extent. Philodemus, our main source, slashes down all theories of others and interesting ideas of his own, like inseparability of form and content, seem prompted by his wish to expose others' follies rather than to make an original contribution of his own.264
After Theophrastus, Praxiphanes of Mytilene advocates 'the Long Epic of  organic  size'265 and  Callimachus  writes  a  treatise  against  his  views. 
Praxiphanes specializes in the sort of literary criticism which came to be called γραµµατικη! and according to Clement of Alexandria he was the first to be called γραµµατικο!.266 But Peripatetic contributions to poetical theory after Theophrastus are not known.267
Chrysippus is credited with the wish 'to accommodate the stories of Orpheus, Musaeus, Hesiod and Homer to his own statements about the immortal  gods  in  order  that  even  the  most  ancient  poets,  who  did  not even suspect this, might be seen to have been Stoics'; but this representation is Cicero's distortion of Epicurean polemic against the Stoics,268 and 261 A first step can be seen in  PHamb. 128, wrongly ascribed to Theophrastus (Schenkeveld 1993). 
262 Schenkeveld 1991. 
263 D.L. vii.20 0. Cf. Plu.  Poet. Aud. ('How the young man should study poetry'), but it is uncertain whether Chrysippus' treatise is the main source of Plutarch's. 
264 See Innes 1989, who is more confident on this point. Philodemus' theory falls outside the scope of this survey, but see Obbink 1995. 
265 Schol. Flor. on Call.  Aitia  1-12. 
266  Strom. i.16.79.4. 







267 Wehrli 1969d, 121-5. Philodemus' attack in  Po. iv,  PHerc. 207, concerns Aristotle's  On Poets, not an early Peripatetic treatise, as Janko 1991 shows. 
268 Cic.  ND  i.41, which arguably derives from Phld.  Piet.,  PHerc. 1428, col. 6. 16-28 Henrichs (cf. 
Long 1992, 49-50). Philodemus just says that 'Chrysippus, like Cleanthes, tried to harmonize the things [i.e. divine names and myths transmitted by the poets] attributed to Orpheus and Musaeus, and things in Homer, Hesiod, Euripides and other poets with Stoic doctrine.'
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
222
l a n g u a g e
should not be taken as proof that the Stoics are the great practitioners and defenders of the allegorical interpretation of poetry.269 In other texts270
they say that Homer and Hesiod included in their poems myths which give a true insight. Moreover, the great bulk of what is viewed as Stoic allegoresis  consists  of  etymologies  of  names  of  gods  because  originally these names represent the way people understood the world.271 In other words,  the  poems  of  Homer  and  Hesiod  are  like  clearing  houses  of ancient,  pre-philosophical  wisdom  on  theology.  These  myths  must  be interpreted,  but  this  does  not  imply  that  Chrysippus  detects  a  gap between  surface  meaning  and  hidden  sense.  Zeno's  statement  'that Homer wrote some things in accordance with opinion and other things in accordance  with  truth'272 is  not  a  plea  for  allegorical  interpretation either, for it expresses the common view that Homer sometimes overlays truths  with  a  mythical  covering  to  flavour  his  style  and  to  enchant  his audience.273 Zeno, Chrysippus and other Stoics apply much philological acumen to the text of the epics by suggesting other readings or when ety-mologizing; their interpretation goes along the lines of Stoic beliefs but does not imply that either the poets or the original myth-makers deliberately  concealed  their  truths  about  nature  in  misleading  myths.  Others, like Heraclitus and Pseudo-Plutarch go several steps further and propagate the view that Homer was his own allegorist.274
Other  facets  of  ancient  poetics  have  been  ascribed  to  the  Stoics,275
albeit without much foundation. Several titles of Stoic works on poetry are known276 and their fragments mostly pertain to philological interpretation. But an interesting remark of Cleanthes shows his awareness of the power  of  poetic  form:  philosophical  prose  lacks  the  words  proper  to
'divine greatness', and metre, melodies and rhythms come as close as possible to the truth of theory on divinity.277
*
So far the harvest of philosophers' contributions to poetics is not significant. This statement would be di◊erent if more were known of the con-269 E.g. Joosen and Waszink 1950, 285-6; Pépin 1976, 125-31; Pfei◊er 1968, 237. 
270 Cic.  ND  ii.63-72 (the account of the Stoic spokesman Balbus) and [Plu.]  Plac. 879c-880d. 
271 E.g. Cornutus (first cent. ad) in his  De natura deorum. 
272 D. Chr.  Or. 53.4. 
273 Thus Strabo (e.g. i.2.7-9), who holds the same view for Homer's geographical descriptions; cf. 
Plu.  Poet. Aud.  20f., who attacks the Stoics for giving childish etymologies, not for using allegorical interpretation. 
274 Long 1992. 
275 De Lacy 1948 and (extremely liberally) Colish 1990, 58-60. 
276 Zeno wrote  On Homeric Problems (in five books) and  On Poetic Reading, Cleanthes  On the Poet  and Chrysippus  On Poems,  How to Interpret Poems  and  Against the Kritikoi (D.L. vii.4; 175; 20 0). 
277 Phld.  Mus.  iv,  PHerc.  1497,  col.  28;  cf.  Sen.  Ep.  108.10  and  see  Asmis  1992,  40 0-1.  For Posidonius' definition of poetry see below (p. 224). 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
p o e t i c s
223
tents of Philodemus'  On Poems  and the works of authors he attacks.278 We now have much of book v and pieces of the other books. In book v he deals with  views  of  several  persons  of  whom  Neoptolemus,  an  anonymous author (a Stoic?) and Crates of Mallos get a long discussion, and he ends with a short disputation of thirteen opinions, culled from a similar work of his teacher Zeno of Sidon. Other fragments mention a specific group of κριτικοι!. On the whole, Philodemus' targets look more like grammarians and literary critics than philosophers279 but this distinction may be too definite. From his treatment we get the impression of a continuing discussion  in  the  Hellenistic  period  of  the  relationships  between  content (δια!νοια)  and  form,  especially  composition  and  arrangement  of  words into lines (συ!νθεσι), and its ensuing e◊ect of sound (ευ0φωνι!α). Thus to the κριτικοι! content and choice of words are common to all poets and a poet's only means to achieve excellence is in putting together his material in an individual way, that is, through συ!νθεσι and ευ0φωνι!α. If these are good, a poem is good. To know this one needs no  logos, for the trained ear is su√cient to make judgements.280 Crates accepts euphony as a criterion but only insofar as it agrees with the rational principles of the poetic art; but  he  also  says  that  what  one  judges  in  a  poem  is  'not  without  the thoughts, but not the thoughts themselves'.281 The anonymous author, who  is  said  perhaps  to  adhere  to  Stoic  tenets  and  whose  name  may  be Aristo,282 also accepts euphony as very important but at the same time asks  for  serious  meaning.  Similar  and  other  statements  are  found  in Philodemus' doxography at the end of his fifth book.283
Before this part Philodemus discusses views of a Neoptolemus, who is identical with Neoptolemus of Parium, one of Horace's sources for his  Ars poetica.284 He  distinguishes  between  ποι!ηµα as  the  aspect  which  is related to style only and ποι!ησι which involves content, thought, plot, and characters. Together they are the ει3δη  of the poetic craft, which is mastered by its third member, the poet. Philodemus opposes this theory and finds the main  di◊erentia  in the fact that a short poem, or a part of a larger one, is ποι!ηµα, and a large poem, like the  Iliad, ποι!ησι. Probably 278 See now the contributions in Obbink 1995. 
279 Praxiphanes, Demetrius of Byzantium, Neoptolemus, an anonymous author (see n. 282) and Crates of Mallos. See Isnardi Parente 1987, 97. 
280 See Schenkeveld 1968; Blank 1994 and Porter 1995. 
281 See Asmis 1992, 398 and Porter 1992, 112-14, who interprets these lines (col. 28. 26-9) as suggesting allegoresis. Though Crates calls himself κριτικο!, not γραµµατικο! (S.E.  M  i.79 and 248), Philodemus does not present him as belonging to the κριτικοι! ( Po. v.xxvii.7-9 Mangoni). 
282 Aristo of Chios was a pupil of Zeno. The latest discussions of Jensen's crucial supplements in col.  13.28-30,  which  give  awkward  Greek,  in  Isnardi  Parente  1987,  1-3  ( contra)  and  Asmis 1990c, 149-50 and Porter 1994 ( pro). 
283 See Asmis 1992. 
284  Po. v coll. 13.32-16.28 Mangoni. See Brink 1963, 48-51; and Mangoni 1993, 53-61. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
224
l a n g u a g e
Neoptolemus' di◊erentiation is a reaction against Callimachus' insistence on  small  poems  displaying  the  poet's  craft,  for  he  claims  unity  for  big poems  also.285 Later,  Posidonius  argues  that  ποι!ηµα  is  a  metrical  or rhythmical way of elaborate speech (he exemplifies it by one poetic line), and ποι!ησι is a 'significant ποι!ηµα that contains an imitation of things divine  and  human'.  This  di◊erence  is  related  to  the  Stoic  distinction between  lexis  as diction and  logos, meaningful diction,286 but the addition about the particular type of  mime-sis  shows that he has epic poetry in mind in particular.287 In this way Posidonius, too, is involved in the debate on long and short poems. 
Like  most  Greeks  (and  Romans)  Neoptolemus  stresses  both  moral function and pleasing e◊ect as aims of poetry.288 Eratosthenes is one of the few who hold that every poet aims at entertainment (ψυχαγωγι!α) only289 and though to Philodemus, too, poetry is morally neutral290 he does  not  mention  him.  Connected  with  entertainment  is  the  notion  of φαντασι!α, visualization or presentation of images to the mind of a writer and through the text to a reader. Perhaps this theory of φαντασι!α in literary  criticism  is  a  Stoic  contribution.  Indeed,  Chrysippus  says  that  any product of human  techne-  is preceded by a φαντασι!α of the τεχνι!τη,291
but  already  in  Aristotle  the  term  is  there,  albeit  outside  his   Poetics  and Rhetoric, as well as all the separate elements of this theory. The ensuing typology of the narration which has degrees of truthfulness as its criter-ion292 may be due to Peripatetic scholarship as well.293
*
The  relationship  between  Alexandrian  scholarship  as  the  art  of  understanding, explaining, and restoring the literary tradition and Peripatetic philosophy is a complex one. Pfei◊er favours the opinion that because of a new  conception  of  poetry  Philitas  and  Zenodotus  initiate  a  new  discipline.294 At the same time he acknowledges as a second stage of the process the great debt of the Alexandrians to Aristotelian criticism, and this point should be stressed to a greater extent.295 The scholia on Homer and the  tragedians  show  that  the  Alexandrian  scholars  use  Peripatetic  stan-285 Brink 1963, 43-74; 79-150 for more (possibly) Aristotelian reminiscences in these fragments. 
286 See above, p. 186. 
287 D.L. vii.60. 
288 Phld.  Po. v col. 16 and cf. Hor.  Ars  333-4. 
289 Strabo i.1.10. 
290  Po  v. col. 1-2 Mangoni. 
291 David  Prol.  43.30-44.5, cf. Meijering 1987, 105. 
292 'True,  false  and  as-it-were-true  stories'  are  distinguished  by  Asclepiades  of  Myrlea  (S.E.  M
i.252-5 and 263-4). 
293 Meijering 1987, 18-25; 53 and 73-98. 
294 Pfei◊er 1968, 140, cf. 1, 67, 88, 104 etc. 
295 Pfei◊er 1968, 95; Meijering 1987, and Richardson 1994, 27-8. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
p o e t i c s
225
dards in their criticism. The terms may change296 but the ideas remain the same: poetry creates emotions and this e◊ect is also achieved by a poet's arrangement  of  his  material  (οι0κονοµι!α).  Aristarchus'  atheteses  depend on  his  implicit  poetics  about  functionality  and  internal  consistency297
and his defence of mythical impossibilities recalls Aristotle's views.298
A  special  case  is  Crates.299 Practising  in  Pergamum  he  applies  Stoic views in his own way to Homer's description of the heaven represented on the shield of Achilles300 and thinks that Homer's cosmos is spherical in  shape,  which  view  he  defends  at  other  places  too.  Aristarchus  often reacts against Crates' exegetic  tours de force. In all, Crates seems to be an outsider to the mainstream of Hellenistic scholarship.301
296 Thus µυ4θο (plot) is replaced by υ/πο!θεσι. 
297 See Schenkeveld 1970. 
298 Porter  1992,  73-84,  also  defending  Aristarchan  provenance  of  the  maxim  'elucidate  Homer from Homer' against Pfei◊er 1968, 225-7. 
299 Porter 1992, 85-114. 
300  Il. xviii.481-9. 
301 Janko  1995,  92-5  (cf.  also  Porter  1992,  95-114)  suggests  that  Crates  had  great  influence  on Roman thought about poetry and language. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
p a r t   i i i
E P I S T E M O LO G Y
*
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
7
Introduction: the beginnings of
Hellenistic epistemology
j a c q u e s   b r u n s c h w i g
i The epistemological turn
It  is  generally  agreed  that  the  Hellenistic  period  is  the  great  age  of ancient epistemology. For a variety of reasons, many of which have nothing  to  do  with  the  history  of  philosophy,  the  period  is  standardly deemed to start in 323 bc on the death of Alexander the Great. By a curious  coincidence,  two  philosophers  of  signal  and  symbolic  importance had  connections  with  Alexander.  The  first  is  Aristotle,  who  had  been tutor to the young Alexander and who died a year after his royal pupil, leaving a vast body of scientific and philosophical work which, after a period of mixed fortune, would for centuries be considered - in particular  by  the  sceptics1 -  as  a  model  of  dogmatic  thought.  The  second  is Pyrrho,  some  twenty  years  younger  than  Aristotle,  who  accompanied Alexander on his eastern campaign: he returned from Asia in his prime, and the words and deeds which filled the rest of his long life caused him, rightly or wrongly, to be regarded for centuries as the eponymous hero of scepticism. 
It is tempting - and conventional - to assert that, on Aristotle's death, philosophy  saw  itself  driven  from  a  happy  paradise  of  epistemological innocence,  and  that  the  poison  of  doubt,  spat  out  by  the  serpent  of Pyrrhonism, would oblige any future philosopher who failed to succumb to it to earn his neo-dogmatic bread by the sweat of his brow. And this picture  makes  a  pleasing  diptych  with  the  picture  which  is  painted,  with equal facility, of the state of ethics: before the geopolitical earthquake provoked by Alexander, the moral existence of the Greeks had been firmly framed by the ethical and political structures of the city-state; after the earthquake, the new Hellenistic schools could o◊er the shaken citizenry nothing more than recipes for individual salvation. 
The widespread notion that the beginning of the Hellenistic period is 1 See S.E.  PH  i.3. 
[229]
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
230
t h e   b e g i n n i n g s   o f   h e l l e n i s t i c   e p i s t e m o l o g y marked by an 'epistemological turn' rests on considerations both philosophical  and  historical.  From  the  philosophical  point  of  view,  it  seems natural to suppose that the birth of an epistemology worthy of the name -
that is to say, of systematic reflection on the possibilities and the limits of knowledge,  on  its  criteria  and  its  instruments  -  implies  the  prior  existence of a sceptical challenge; for there must be something to jolt us out of the naive complacency which marked our initial forays into the field of knowledge before we had taken stock of the intellectual means at our disposal. The gage will be thrown - and picked up - only by men who have already lost their epistemological virginity. 
From the historical point of view, it can be maintained that, before the death  of  Aristotle,  there  were  no  true  sceptical  schools  of  thought  in Greece. Sceptical inclinations, sceptical arguments, even sceptical thinkers may indeed be discovered. But the inclinations coexist with opposite inclinations; the arguments are not collected in any systematic fashion; and  the  thinkers,  isolated  or  eccentric,  are  peripheral  figures.  Again, before  various  types  of  self-conscious  and  articulated  scepticism  made their appearance at the beginning of the Hellenistic period, Greek thinkers, when they considered epistemological problems, took the possibility and the actuality of knowledge for granted and concerned themselves primarily with the nature of knowledge, its origins, and its structure. (The case of Aristotle is often presented as a paradigm.) This epistemological optimism is of a piece with what are called the 'realist' presuppositions of Greek thought; for, since the time of Parmenides, it was not - or not primarily - truth which raised philosophical problems: it was error.2
Towards  the  end  of  the  fourth  century,  however,  Greek  theorizing about knowledge seems to 'undergo some dramatic changes: new technical  terms  are  introduced  by  Epicurus  and  the  Stoic  Zeno,  indicating  a shift of interest from the question "What is knowledge?", given that there is such a thing, to "Is there any knowledge?"'.3 It is tempting to suppose that this reorientation was the e◊ect of a radical questioning of the very possibility  of  knowledge,  a  questioning  which  first  appears  in  the  two chief versions of Hellenistic scepticism which go back to Pyrrho and to Arcesilaus (who was the younger by some fifty years). After these men, the critical question became the primary question to which every philosophical school had to provide an answer. (Thus Aristocles of Messene at the start of his critical exposition of Pyrrhonism: 'It is necessary to examine first of all our capacity for knowledge; for if by nature we are incapable of 2 See esp. Burnyeat 1982a; Denyer 1991. 
3 Striker 1990, 143. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   e p i s t e m o l o g i c a l   t u r n 231
knowing anything, then there is no need to proceed further on any other matter' (cited by Eus.  PE  xiv.18.1).)
The answer to the critical question usually took the form of a theory about the 'criterion of truth': either it was said that we have no access to truth at all, that is, that there is no such criterion; or else it was maintained that we do have one or more ways of discovering the truth, ways which must then be identified and described (this was the task to which, each in their own manner, the Epicureans and the Stoics dedicated themselves). 
The  o√cial  stance  of  the  sceptics  was  this:  they  suspended  judgement about  whether  or  not  there  is  a  criterion  (cf.  PH  ii.18).  In  this  way  the remarkable interest shown by Hellenistic philosophy in the problem of the criterion4 may be seen as a sign of the new predominance of epistemological concerns. 
This  orthodox  interpretation  needs  to  be  modified  in  various  ways, both philosophically and historically. First, it is plain that the two questions which are supposed to have dominated classical epistemology and Hellenistic epistemology - the questions 'What is knowledge?' and 'How, if  at  all,  is  knowledge  possible?'  -  are  not  entirely  independent  of  each other. An answer to the first question necessarily has implications for the second. The higher the bar of knowledge is set, the more di√cult it is to clear - and you can only clear it at the height at which it has been set. If we look, say, at Plato's  Theaetetus  we see that the first answer to the question
'What is knowledge?', namely the suggestion that knowledge is perception,  is  immediately  conflated  with  Protagoras'  thesis  that  'man  is  the measure of all things', which excludes all objective knowledge and leaves the notion of truth with no sense outside a framework of universal relativism.5 Again, Aristotle, discussing demonstrative knowledge rather than knowledge in general, had already shown ( APo  i.3) that if you suppose all knowledge to be demonstrative, then you must admit (as some of his contemporaries admitted) that knowledge either is impossible, insofar as it presupposes an infinite regression, or else is either circular or based on arbitrary hypotheses.6 Before the Hellenistic period, then, it seems that philosophers were perfectly aware of the fact that any conception of what knowledge is will have implications for the possibility of human access to knowledge. 
4 For which see below, pp. 261-4; 316-21; 338-9. 
5 The seminal importance of the  Theaetetus  for all ancient and modern epistemology has often been stressed; see most recently and most forcefully Burnyeat 1990. 
6 Infinite regression, reciprocity (or the 'diallele'), and mere hypothesizing were invoked, much later,  in  the  sceptical  interest:  they  are  three  of  the  'tropes'  ascribed  to  Agrippa.  See  Barnes 1990b. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
232
t h e   b e g i n n i n g s   o f   h e l l e n i s t i c   e p i s t e m o l o g y From an historical point of view, observe that the di◊erent versions of scepticism which appeared in the Hellenistic period always claimed pre-Aristotelian pedigrees. This is true of Pyrrho, who, we are told, declared himself  indebted  to  Democritus  (D.L.  ix.67);  it  is  true  of  Timon,  who assigned  a  special  role  to  Xenophanes  in  his   Silli;  and  it  is  true  of Arcesilaus, scholarch of the Academy, who claimed to be faithful to the tradition of Socrates and Plato.7 These exhibitions of ancestral portraits were admittedly retrospective; and they were sometimes so contrived as to border on the absurd. Even so, and remembering that our evidence is patchy  and  that  a  large  number  of  texts  are  lost,  we  can  be  sure  that Hellenistic scepticism was not a creation  ex nihilo, and that reflection on the limits and sometimes on the vanity of knowledge had occupied the Presocratics and the Sophists, not to mention Socrates himself. If it is suggested that the earlier philosophers had never faced epistemological challenges comparable to those which were to determine a central part of the agenda of the Hellenistic schools, then it is enough to invoke the seriousness  with  which  Plato,  in  the   Theaetetus,  treats  the  threat  posed  by Protagorean relativism,8 and the crucial debate on the principle of non-contradiction and the law of excluded middle which Aristotle conducts with opponents whom later Peripatetics - and some modern scholars -
thought  they  could  identify  as  precursors  of  Pyrrho  or  even  as  Pyrrho himself.9
*
To introduce the issues discussed in this Part it is useful to recall that the ancient  authors  -  historians,  doxographers,  polemicists,  philosophers (including  the  sceptical  philosophers  themselves)  -  found  it  di√cult  to locate scepticism on the philosophical map. For - to change the metaphor
- in the farmyard of ancient philosophy there strutted many a fine dogmatic fowl and scepticism waddled about like an ugly duck. 
There are many reasons why it was di√cult, both historically and conceptually, to classify and categorize scepticism. First, if scepticism made its o√cial entry in the Hellenistic period, it did so in two di◊erent intellectual contexts and in two di◊erent forms: the scepticism of Pyrrho and the scep-7 See Cic.  De Orat. iii.67;  Fin. ii.2;  Acad. i.46; Anon.  Proleg. in Plat. Phil. 10. On the sceptical interpretation of Plato see the discussion between Annas 1990a and Lévy 1990; and also Lévy 1992. 
8 Note,  however,  the  important  remarks  in  Annas  and  Barnes  1985,  97-8,  on  the  di◊erence between relativism and scepticism. 
9 See Aristocl.  apud  Eus.  PE  xiv.18.2. On Aristotle's attitude to the sceptical ideas of which he was aware see Long 1981; Berti 1981; Barnes 1987. On Pyrrho as  au fait  with Aristotle see Conche 1973, 17, 35-6; Reale 1981, 281-3, 316-21. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   e p i s t e m o l o g i c a l   t u r n 233
ticismof Arcesilaus. And since these two thinkers made a great stir and yet left nothing in writing, their views were all the more liable to be adapted and distorted by later thinkers. Pyrrho, as peripheral a figure as he was original, was deemed to have introduced a version of scepticism which was upheld for a time by his immediate pupils, in particular by Timon, and which was revived much later by a long sequence of philosophers from Aenesidemus to Sextus Empiricus, philosophers whom it is convenient to label Neopyrrhonians. A little later than Pyrrho, Arcesilaus was elected head of Plato's Academy and introduced a sceptical interpretation of the heritage of Socrates and Plato. He thus inaugurated a series of 'Academies', which developed and changed, through incessant argument with the Stoics, down to the time of Carneades and of Philo of Larissa and Antiochus. The historical and philosophical relations between the two branches of scepticismare very obscure. It seems likely that Arcesilaus had heard of Pyrrho; but ancient sources which couple the two men usually do so to mock or compromise Arcesilaos.10 Later, the Neopyrrhonians refer to the sceptical Academy only to distance themselves from it, ascribing to the Academy a negative meta-dogmatism - which they seem to have invented for their own purposes.11 Philosophically speaking, it is di√cult to distinguish between the Neopyrrhonian and the Academic versions of scepticism, and scholars ancient and modern have o◊ered di◊erent accounts.12
The dual nature of ancient scepticism was not the only reason for doxographical embarrassment. To begin with, could you speak of a sceptical school  at all? The very idea of sceptical doctrines, on a par with the doctrines of the other philosophical schools, seemed a contradiction in terms: if a philosophical school is defined by its 'dogmas' - by the characteristic theses  which  it  maintains  and  in  favour  of  which  it  argues  -  then  how could there be a school without dogmas, an antidogmatic (or rather an adogmatic)  school?  The  problem  was  posed  in  these  terms  first  by  the sceptics themselves and then by the doxographers. Sextus13 asks whether properly speaking scepticism is a 'sect' (αι1ρεσι) at all. His answer is interestingly  subtle.  Instead  of  flatly  denying  that  the  sceptics  'belong  to  a sect',  he  distinguishes  between  two  senses  of  'αι1ρεσι',  a  strong  and  a 10 As did Aristo in his famous parody of Homer, on which see below, n. 72. 
11 On all this see S.E.  PH  i.1-3, 226-35; Cic.  Acad. i.45; on the sense which should be given to the terms 'negative dogmatism' and 'metadogmatism' see Barnes 1992, 4252 n.54, 4254 n.72. 
12 See Gell. xi.5.1-8. Plutarch wrote an essay on the subject (Lamprias catalogue no. 64) which has not survived. See Striker 1981; Decleva Caizzi 1986. 
13  PH  i.16-17, the immediate source of which is certainly the same as that of a text in D.L. i.20. 
(According to Glucker 1978, 176 the source is Aenesidemus; but note that the same problem about non-dogmatic schools is posed in connection with the Cynics: D.L. vi.103.) Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
234
t h e   b e g i n n i n g s   o f   h e l l e n i s t i c   e p i s t e m o l o g y weak. In the strong sense a sect involves 'adherence to a number of dogmas  which  cohere  both  with  one  another  and  with  the  phenomena',  a dogma being 'an assent to something unclear': in this sense only dogmatic schools are sects. But in the weak sense a sect is
a way of life which coheres with an account in accordance with the phenomena, the account showing how it is possible to live correctly (where
"correctly"  is  taken  not  specifically  with  reference  to  virtue  but  more loosely) and also supplying the ability to suspend judgement. (S. E.  PH
i.17)
and in this sense the sceptics do belong to a sect. This distinction and the fact that it is found in Sextus is enough to show how the sceptics' own reflection on their philosophical position could influence and guide the work of the doxographers: in order to write  On Sects, Περι' Αι/ρε!σεων, they needed a criterion to determine what was a sect and what was not. 
The same connection between philosophical preoccupations and historical concerns can be seen in another branch of the doxographical tradition,  where  the  material  is  organized  not  by  sects  but  by  'successions'
(διαδοχαι!). Pyrrho's position in a scheme of this sort seems firmly fixed by the authors of 'Successions', who regularly set him in a line which goes back  (by  way  of  intermediaries)  first  to  the  Atomists,  Leucippus  and Democritus, and then to the Eleatics, Parmenides and Melissus and Zeno. 
The most interesting thing about these genealogies, from our present point of view, emerges from their attempts to fit the sequence Parmenides-Democritus-Pyrrho into a larger context; for here we find hesitations and debates which show what was at stake when scepticism came to be located in the history of ancient thought. Sometimes the general schema is bipartite (Ionians and Italians);14 the succession Parmenides-Democritus is fitted in either by positing a line Pythagoras-
Xenophanes-Parmenides15 or else by connecting Parmenides directly to the Pythagorean Ameinias.16 In the latter case, Xenophanes finds himself isolated - perhaps as the first of the sceptics.17 Sometimes the general schema is tripartite (Ionians, Italians, Eleatics). The Eleatic line is then presented as starting fromXenophanes, the putative teacher of
Parmenides. Xenophanes stands at the interchange, with possible connections upline towards the Pythagoreans and downline towards the Eleatics. Diogenes Laertius reflects these di◊erences inasmuch as he presents Xenophanes now as a pupil of the Pythagoreans (i.15), now as an iso-14 See D.L. i.13-15. 
15 D.L. I.15; cf. Arist.  Metaph. Α.986b21. 
16 Sotion in D.L. ix.21. 
17 Sotion in D.L. ix.20. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   e p i s t e m o l o g i c a l   t u r n 235
lated figure (ix.20), now as someone whom Parmenides 'heard but did not follow' (ix.21). 
The  fact  that  Xenophanes  occupies  the  key  position  is  no  doubt  due first of all to his sceptical inclinations which are exemplified above all in DK 21 b 34, a celebrated and much discussed fragment which, on one possible interpretation, may be seen as an exposition of the first argument in favour of scepticism.18 But equally important is the fact that, for this very reason, he was an object of sustained attention, if not from Pyrrho himself,19 then at least from his principal pupil Timon. Timon was certainly the first to set the new form of wisdom incarnated by his master in the context of the Greek philosophical tradition: he was concerned to scotch the idea that Pyrrho was a peripheral or even an exotic figure, and to show that  several  earlier  philosophers  could  be  presented  as  honourable  if errant  ancestors  of  Pyrrhonism.  Timon's  work,  despite  its  satirical  and burlesque  aspects,  was  based  on  accurate  knowledge.  Antigonus  of Carystus  made  use  of  it  in  his  life  of  Pyrrho.  It  was  taken  seriously  by Sotion, who wrote in detail about Timon in Book xi of his  Successions 20
and  who  had  devoted  a  whole  book  to  the   Silli.21 Timon  not  only  set Pyrrho  on  a  pedestal:  he  also  gave  him  a  determinate  position  on  the chessboard of ancient philosophy. 
Let us now consider, from the epistemological angle, the section of the
'succession'  which  runs  from  Democritus  to  Pyrrho.  Here  we  meet  a notion often invoked by modern scholars - the notion of sceptical atomism.  What  it  amounts  to  is  this.  A  certain  number  of  philosophers,  of whom the least ill known to us are Metrodorus of Chios and Anaxarchus of Abdera, developed the atomistic physics of Democritus and at the same time watered the seeds of scepticism which they found sprouting in his epistemological  nursery.  But  their  sceptical  atomism  was  inherently unstable and it soon separated into a non-atomistic scepticism (Pyrrho) and a non-sceptical atomism (Epicurus). 
This  schema  implies,  among  other  things,  that  Pyrrho  was  a  thinker preoccupied  by  epistemological  issues  -  indeed,  that  he  was  a  sceptic whose views derived straight from Democritus.22 In order to assess the historical and philosophical credentials of the schema let us first examine 18 The fragment was often cited and discussed by the sceptics (see S.E.  M  vii.49, 110; viii.326; partial quotations elsewhere). Among numerous modern analyses see Fraenkel 1925, Guthrie 1962, i.395-401, Barnes 1979, 137-43, Lesher 1978, Hussey 1990. 
19 As far as I know, no text indicates that Pyrrho had any interest in Xenophanes. 
20 See D.L. ix.110, 112, 115. 
21 See Athen. viii.336d. 
22 On  Democritus'  epistemology  see  (out  of  a  vast  literature)  Guthrie  1965,  ii.454-65;  Barnes 1979, 559-64; MacKim 1984. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
236
t h e   b e g i n n i n g s   o f   h e l l e n i s t i c   e p i s t e m o l o g y the  relation  between  its  two  extreme  points,  Democritus  and  Pyrrho. 
Pyrrho's interest in Democritus is firmly attested: according to the evidence of his close pupil and follower, Philo of Athens, the authors whom Pyrrho  quoted  most  frequently  were  Democritus  and  Homer.  What Democritus did he quote? The text does not tell us but we may guess, on analogy with what it tells us about Homer:
He admired him and frequently cited the line: 'As are the generations of leaves, so are the generations of men' [ Il. vi.146]; he also compared men to wasps and flies and birds;23 and he quoted these verses too: 'And you too, my friend, you die. Why grieve so? Patroclus is dead, a far better man than you' [ Il. xxi.106-7]; and all the verses which seem to bear on men's instability and futility and on their childishness. (D.L. ix.67) This invocation of Homer is utterly di◊erent from that of 'certain people'
who  presented  Homer  as  'the  founder  of  the  sceptical  school'  on  the grounds that 'more than anyone he said di◊erent things at di◊erent times about one and the same matter and never asserted anything fixedly dogmatic' (D.L. ix.71). This absurd explanation comes at the beginning of a passage, workmanlike if somewhat muddled, in which Diogenes lists the ancestors  of  scepticism  (ix.71-3)  -  and  where  of  course  we  find Democritus and his 'sceptical' fragments. 
It is plain that the Homer who interested Pyrrho was the observer of the human tragi-comedy and not the putative author of a sceptical epistemology.  It  is  odds-on  that  there  was  a  similar  di◊erence  between  the Democritus who interested Pyrrho and the Democritus whose epistemological  patronage  Pyrrho's  later  followers  were  to  claim.  Pyrrho's Democritus, we may suppose, was the laughing philosopher: not a man who  theorized  about  knowledge  but  a  man  who  contemplated  a  world entirely  ruled  by  chance  and  necessity;  not  an  epistemologist  who despaired of finding the  truth  but a detached observer of a universe which has no  meaning. 
The  line  which  leads  from  Democritus  to  Pyrrho  does  not,  after  all, seem to take us from one sceptical epistemology to another. And thus we should not suppose that the principal intermediaries who, in the traditional genealogy, separate and link the two thinkers will be found in their expected  places.  They  are  Metrodorus  of  Chios  and  Anaxarchus  of 23 Decleva Caizzi 1981a, 20 and 173, is surely right to construe the sentence in such a way that Pyrrho  rather  than  Homer  is  the  author  of  the  comparisons  ( pace  Hicks  1925,  Russo  1978, Gigante 1983b). 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   e p i s t e m o l o g i c a l   t u r n 237
Abdera,  men  who  are  in  any  case  very  di◊erent  from  each  other;  and although they are not properly speaking Hellenistic philosophers, a few lines may be devoted to them here inasmuch as they standardly feature in Pyrrho's intellectual pedigree. 
*
If the label 'sceptical atomist' can be applied to anyone, then Metrodorus of Chios is probably the best candidate. We are told that, an atomist and a Democritean as far as principles went, he was independent 'in everything else' (Theophrastus  apud  Simp.  Phys. 28.27 ⫽ Phys. Op.  fr. 8 Diels⫽fr. 229
FHSG). It is not easy to determine what 'everything else' was. It seems clear  that  he  was  very  interested  in  meteorological  questions  (DK  70 a 9-21). Again, in support of Democritus' theory of the infinity of worlds, he employed an original metaphor and implicitly used an interesting version of the principle of su√cient reason: 'It is absurd that a single stalk of corn should appear in a large field or a single world in the infinite void'
(DK 70 a 6). 
At the same time, he appears to have been a sceptic; for according to several sources he began his work  On Nature  with a shattering declaration:
'None of us knows anything not even whether we know or do not know this  very  thing  (sc.  that  we  do  not  know  anything).'24 The  phrase  was striking enough to win notoriety, extreme enough to be taken25 as the inspiration for Pyrrho's extravagances, and subtle enough to have been transmitted in di◊erent forms, some of them more and some of them less complex.26 Whatever  the  precise  wording  and  the  exact  sense  of Metrodorus' declaration, it turns on the ingenious device of combining a first order statement of ignorance ('we do not know anything') with a second order statement of ignorance the content of which is the first statement  ('we  do  not  even  know  this,  viz.  that  we  know  nothing').  This complexity  seems  to  intimate  a  scepticism  which  has  already  reached  a refined  level  and which is  trying to  defend itself in advance against the 24 Ου0δει' η/µω4ν ου0δε'ν οι:δεν, ου0δ' αυ0το' του4το, πο!τερον οι3δαµεν η5 ου0κ οι5δαµεν (Eus.  PE
XIV.19.8).  The  sentence  seems  to  admit  of  two  grammatically  possible  construals:  (a)  one, which my translation presupposes, takes αυ0το' του4το to refer to the initial proposition ('none of us knows anything') and to serve proleptically as object of the verbs οι3δαµεν η5 ου0κ οι3δαµεν; (b) αυ0το' του4το could also be read as a second object of οι:δεν and taken to refer to the indirect question, πο!τερον οι3δαµεν η5 ου0κ οι5δαµεν: the translation would then be: 'None of us knows anything, not even this, viz., whether we know or do not know.' But I find it di√cult to construe the verbs of the indirect question without any object; hence I prefer (a). 
25 Already by Eusebius, in the context of his quotation. 
26 See esp. Cic.  Acad. ii.73; S.E.  M  vii.88; cf. DK 69 a 2; 70 a 23, a 25. See Brunschwig 1996. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
238
t h e   b e g i n n i n g s   o f   h e l l e n i s t i c   e p i s t e m o l o g y charge of negative meta-dogmatism to which first order sceptical statements are liable.27
These  reflections  only  sharpen  the  paradox:  how  can  Metrodorus'
sophisticated  scepticism  be  reconciled  with  his  atomistic  physics  and with his meteorological researches? To solve this problem some scholars have  played  down  Metrodorus'  dogmatism  in  physics,28 others  (more numerous) his scepticism.29 A third solution may be suggested. It starts from asking who are 'we', to whom Metrodorus ascribes a dual ignorance. 
The word 'we' need not necessarily refer to all men at all times: it might refer rather to men as they are now, before they have read Metrodorus'
book and before they have been convinced by the truth of the doctrines which he expounds there. From this point of view, the opening declaration,  far  from  forbidding  a  dogmatic  exposition  of  atomistic  physics, might actually have been designed to underline the rational power and the scientific importance of the atomic theory.30
Democritean  atomism  is  a  strongly  counterintuitive  theory.  We  see colours and we hear sounds (in other words, we use the 'bastard' form of knowledge:  M  vii.139) not only before we have learned the truth of atomism  but  also  long  afterwards  (see   M  vii.136-7;  D.L.  ix.72).  In  this  way, then,  we  remain  'separated'  from  the  truth  even  after  we  have  learned atomic physics, and thus first order scepticism is true. But once we have been taught atomism, we know that we are 'separated' from the truth, we know  why  we  are,  and  we  know  what  this  truth  is:  in  this  way  we  can overcome second order scepticism. The double form of the sceptical statement,  far  from  making  its  scepticism  more  radical,  may  therefore  be intended to show us our second order ignorance and to encourage us to make  the  necessary  e◊ort  to  overcome  it,  without  thereby  o◊ering  any hope of conquering first order ignorance. 
Such an interpretation is speculative; but it fits well enough with the few other pieces of information which we have about Metrodorus' epistemological ideas. These pieces, it is true, seem at first sight full of contradictions. On the one hand we are told that according to Metrodorus (as according  to  Pythagoras,  Empedocles,  Parmenides,  Zeno,  Melissus, 27 It is often supposed (e.g. Ernout and Robin 1925-8, ii.226-7, Burnyeat 1978) that the form of scepticism criticized at Lucr. iv.469-73 is Metrodoran; and from this are drawn conclusions of some historical magnitude (Lucretius could not himself have chosen to attack such an antique form of scepticism and must therefore be drawing directly on Epicurus). But I do not see how one can identify Metrodorus with a sceptic against whom Lucretius  objects  that he cannot know that he knows nothing. So too Vander Waerdt 1989, 241-2 and n. 48. 
28 E.g. Nestle 1932. 
29 E.g. Brochard 1887/1923, 48. 
30 Cf. Zeller & Mondolfo 1969, 314; dal Pra 1975 (1950), 53. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   e p i s t e m o l o g i c a l   t u r n 239
Anaxagoras, Democritus, Protagoras and Plato) 'all sensations are false'
(Aet.  iv.9.1).  On  the  other  hand,  we  are  told  that  according  to  him  (as according  to  Protagoras)  'we  must  trust  only  our  bodily  perceptions'
(Eus.  PE  xiv.2.4 and 19.8). Note that this mirrors the contradiction which pervades  the  doxography  on  Democritus  in  relation  to  his  view  of  the
'phenomena'.31 Note further that, in the first text, Metrodorus is placed in the company of those many philosophers who, in rejecting the senses, gave a fundamental role to imperceptible entities in their ontology (numbers, particles, atoms, Forms): no doubt he is placed among them  qua  ato -
mist.  On  the  other  hand,  in  the  second  text  Protagoras  is  his  only companion; and here Eusebius tells us who his source was. 
Aristocles, whom Eusebius quotes, said:
Some have maintained that one should trust nothing but perception and images. According to some people, Homer himself hints at such an idea when  he  says  that  Ocean  is  the  principle  of  everything,  meaning  that things  are  in  a  state  of  flux.  Of  those  of  whom  we  have  knowledge, Metrodorus  of  Chios  seems  to  have  expressed  the  idea,  although  it  is Protagoras of Abdera who first stated it plainly. (Eusebius  PE  xiv.20.1) It is clear enough that Aristocles is here drawing on the first part of Plato's Theaetetus;  for  he  is  about  to  summarize  its  objections  to  Protagoras. 
Nonetheless, he cautiously introduces Metrodorus into the sensationalist genealogy of Plato's dialogue. Why does he do so? and why with such caution? 
It is probable that he had a text of Metrodorus to hand but an obscure text,  separated  from  its  context.  I  think  that  this  text  has  survived. 
Eusebius  tells  us  ( PE  xiv.19.9)  that  near  the  beginning  of  his  work   On Nature  Metrodorus wrote: 'All things are whatever τι may think them.' It is  an  enigmatic  phrase  which  has  ba◊led  the  modern  commentators.32
You need only interpret the word 'τι' in an individual sense in order to reach  a  Protagorean  interpretation  ('All  things  are  whatever   each  may think them'). Nonetheless, Aristocles had some reason for hesitating to enlist Metrodorus in the army of the sensationalists; for Metrodorus' sentence can also be interpreted in a rationalist sense ('All things are whatever one  can think them' that is, 'everything rational is real'). Connect this with the argument in proof of the plurality of worlds which I cited earlier and 31 According to Democritus, the phenomena are 'all true' (Arist.  An. i.404a27;  GC  ι.315b9;  Metaph. 
Γ.1009b12) or 'all false' (S.E.  M  vii.135, 369; viii.6, 56). 
32 See Zeller & Mondolfo 1969, 314; Dumont 1988, 946; des Places 1987, 169; Alfieri 1936, ad loc; Mondolfo 1934, 305-6. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
240
t h e   b e g i n n i n g s   o f   h e l l e n i s t i c   e p i s t e m o l o g y it corresponds well to the intellectual position of a tough Democritean, for whom all worlds exist which are conceptually compossible with one another and with our own - and who thus lies on the line leading from Democritus to Epicurus rather than on the line leading from Democritus to Pyrrho.33
According to the traditional 'succession', Anaxarchus of Abdera stands somewhere between Metrodorus and Pyrrho, whose teacher and friend he was. He was certainly a complex and an interesting character - and a philosopher of sorts.34 But - despite a few scraps of evidence to the contrary - he seems to have been neither an atomist nor a sceptic, and he may be held to have contributed nothing to epistemology. To be sure, Sextus counts him among those who 'abolished the criterion' ( M  vii.88), and it is in this context that he ascribes to him (and also to the Cynic Monimus) a splendidly  Shakespearean  saying:  'they  compared  the  things  that  exist (τα' ο3ντα) to scene-painting, and supposed that they were like the visions of a dreamer or a madman'. The theatrical image might well have appealed to a Democritean inclined towards scepticism; but the association with Monimus might rather suggest an interpretation of the words τα' ο3ντα
('the things that exist') in terms not of the world of nature but rather of the world of human action and human practice. 
The fact is that Anaxarchus was primarily a court philosopher, whose complex  attitude  towards  Alexander  the  Great  has  been  assessed  in widely di◊ering ways. Two fragments of the only work ascribed to him, an essay  On Kingship, show him mainly interested in the practical relations between intellectuals and the king: he claims to be a polymath (a claim hardly compatible with his supposed scepticism), and tries to show when polymathy  is  advantageous  and  when  it  is  disadvantageous  in  dealings with the powerful. As to his influence on Pyrrho, it appears to have been fundamentally ethical in content and negative as well as positive.35
33 In Lucr. v.526-8, 531-3 (cf. 1344-5), if not in the surviving works of Epicurus, we find the idea that in virtue of the principle of ι0σονοµι!α all the rationally possible explanations of a meteorological phenomenon are true in one or other of the infinite worlds, even though it is impossible to say which of them holds in our world. Nothing allows us to ascribe to Metrodorus an anticipation of the Epicurean doctrine of multiple explanations; nonetheless, his well attested interest in meteorology, the domain  par excellence  for the doctrine, might have drawn him to the attention of the Epicureans. Perhaps they discovered in him the model for their own combination of a confident rationalism with a limited and tentative form of 'scepticism' (as in the passages of Lucr. just cited). See, along similar lines, Sedley 1976a, 136 and 156 n. 77. 
34 See Loppolo 1980b, Gigante & Dorandi 1980, Dorandi 1994c and d, Brunschwig 1994f. 
35 See the anecdotes in D.L. ix.63; and note Timon's ambivalent quatrain (fr. 58) where the ultimate source for the judgement must surely have been Pyrrho himself. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
p y r r h o
241
ii Pyrrho
Pyrrho  has  much  in  common  with  Socrates  -  in  particular,  each  had  a unique character, and each wrote nothing. Such things lend themselves to passionate attachments, to the birth of legend, and to distortions of every kind. With regard to Pyrrho it is sometimes tempting to adopt the splendid agnosticism of a late sceptic, Theodosius, who said, logically enough, that scepticism should not be called Pyrrhonism 'since if the movements of someone else's mind cannot be grasped, we shall never know Pyrrho's state of mind, and, in ignorance of that, we shall not be able to call ourselves  Pyrrhonians'  (D.L.  ix.70).  Modern  interpretations  of  Pyrrho's thought  are  numerous  and  deeply  divided.36 The  problem  which  most concerns us here, and which is not at all new, is this: to what extent can we attribute  to  Pyrrho  a  sceptical  epistemology  more  or  less  close  to the one  which  was  developed  in  his  name  by  Aenesidemus  and  the Neopyrrhonians? and to what extent was Pyrrho rather - or indeed primarily - a moralist, the inventor of a new art of happiness based on impas-sibility and imperturbability? (Which is how he always appears in Cicero, whose  texts  regularly  associate  him  with  the  indi◊erentists  Aristo  of Chios and Herillus of Carthage.)37
According to an ancient orthodoxy, promoted by the Neopyrrhonians,38
Pyrrho was above all an epistemologist: he was a thorough-going sceptic. 
Modern scholars who accept this orthodoxy rely primarily on a passage in Aristocles, which is unanimously and rightly held to be crucial to the interpretation of Pyrrho's thought, and which will later be quoted in full. In spite of certain di√culties, which will be rehearsed in due time, this text has  been  thought  to  ascribe  the  following  epistemological  position  to Pyrrho: 'he urged, no doubt on the basis of some of the arguments later collected by Aenesidemus, that "our perceptions and our beliefs are neither 36 A helpful summary in Reale 1981, who catalogues no less than eight di◊erent (and unequally represented)  interpretations,  namely:  (1)  'epistemologico-phenomenalistic'  (roughly,  the Neopyrrhonian interpretation, still the most widespread since Hirzel 1877-83, Natorp 1884, Zeller 1909; cf. Stough 1969, Dumont 1972, dal Pra 1950/1975, Russo 1978); (2) 'dialectico-Hegelian'; (3) 'scientistic' (Pyrrho as an empirical thinker, like the later sceptical doctors; cf. 
Mills Patrick 1899 and 1929); (4) 'practico-ethical' (the main rival to (1), mainly represented by Brochard 1887; cf. Robin 1944, von Fritz 1963, Ausland 1989, Hankinson 1995); (5) 'metaphysical'  (Raphael  1931);  (6)  'antimetaphysical-nihilist'  (Conche  1973);  (7)  'orientalist'  (Frenkian 1958, Piantelli 1978, Flinto◊ 1980); (8) 'literary' (see the astonishing - and in many ways prophetic - paper by Malaparte 1929). 
37 See 69A-M Decleva Caizzi. Aristo and Herillus are peripheral Stoics: Cicero refers several times to the fact that these representatives of indi◊erentism - with whom he associates Pyrrho - have been discredited and forgotten (see  O◊. i.6;  Fin. ii.35, v.23;  Tusc. v.85;  De orat. iii.62). 
38 But note the cautious words of Sextus,  PH  i.7. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
242
t h e   b e g i n n i n g s   o f   h e l l e n i s t i c   e p i s t e m o l o g y truthful  nor  liars".  Then  "how  are  things?"  They  are  unassessable  and undecidable. Our attitude to them will therefore be one of indi◊erence, and α0φασι!α ( aphasia) will follow, with tranquillity its shadow. "Is honey really sweet?" We shall not say "Yes", we shall not say "No". (Nor shall we say
"Yes and No", nor even "Neither Yes nor No".) Rather, we shall say "No more sweet than not." By that formula we shall mean that we cannot say what honey is like, and our use of the formula expresses our suspension of judgement on the question . . . All we can do is say how things appear.'39
Since the text in Aristocles derives from Pyrrho's own pupil Timon, orthodox scholars think that we shall do well to believe it. 
Other scholars have denied that Pyrrho's motivation was epistemological. With individual variants and using di◊erent arguments, most of the heterodox  have  portrayed  a  Pyrrho  who  was  primarily  a  moralist;  and they have o◊ered a di◊erent interpretation of the passage in Aristocles. 
Since this section will o◊er a fairly radical version of the ethical interpretation, the reader should be reminded that there are many other suggestions on the market and that the case of Pyrrho is, and is likely to remain, highly controversial. 
It may be helpful to begin by looking at the evidence for Pyrrho's philosophical education. We have already seen that the distant influence of Democritus must have been that of a moralist rather than an epistemologist; and we have also seen that the direct influence of Anaxarchus was less that of a teacher of doctrine than of a model - a controversial model - of behaviour.  But  Anaxarchus  is  not  the  only  teacher  whom  the  tradition ascribes to Pyrrho. 
At first obscure and poor, a painter of little talent,40 Pyrrho became the pupil of 'Bryson <pupil> of Stilpo' (Alexander Polyhistor,  apud  D.L. ix.61) before becoming the pupil of Anaxarchus. This text has given rise to much discussion - not least because there may have been more than one philosopher called Bryson. The details need not concern us, but there is something philosophical at stake: the presence of Bryson ensures that Pyrrho is not solely attached to the tradition of Abdera and Democritus; in addition he is connected to the Megaric or the Dialectical tradition - and hence to Socrates. (Thus Pyrrho gains legitimacy and chronological priority over Arcesilaus,  who  also  claimed  Socrates  as  a  forebear.)  We  may  suppose 39 Stopper 1983, 274-5. 
40 Antigonus of Carystus  ap. D.L. ix.61-2. According to Aristocles (Eus.  PE  xiv.18.27) - if the text is construed in what I think is the correct way, given the syntax and the context (so des Places 1987) - Anaxarchus himself had been an unsuccessful painter before being converted to philosophy by reading Democritus ( pace  Decleva Caizzi 1981a, 91, and most other commentators). 
Why not? 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
p y r r h o
243
either that Pyrrho was in fact taught by Bryson (of Heraclea) but that the doxography falsely made this Bryson a Megaric,41 or else that Bryson was indeed attached in some way to the Megaric tradition and that the doxography  falsely  made  him  Pyrrho's  first  teacher.  The  second  hypothesis may be supported by several considerations. The sources closest to Pyrrho
- Timon and Antigonus of Carystus - are silent about Bryson. Moreover, Pyrrho's peculiar attitudes to language are not at all Socratic or dialectical: he often talked to himself; if someone with whom he was conversing left him, he continued to talk by himself; he went o◊ on his own without saying anything to anyone; above all, he broke the first rule of the dialectical game by giving long speeches in answer to questions (D.L. ix.63-4).42
In  order  to  give  Pyrrho's  philosophical  pedigree  a  Socratic  touch,  by means of the putative influence of Bryson, the doxography had to do some pretty fancy footwork. 
The education of Pyrrho calls for a few words on another question which has spilt much ink: were there any eastern influences on his thought or his style of life?43 We know that he accompanied Anaxarchus on Alexander's expedition to the east - although we know virtually nothing about his relations with Alexander. He was impressed by the criticism which 'an Indian'
addressed to Anaxarchus (D.L. ix.63). And Diogenes Laertius says that, in following Anaxarchus 'everywhere', 'he made contact with the Indian gymnosophists and with the <Persian> Magi; and this appears to have been the origin of his noble manner of philosophizing, when he introduced <into Greece>  the  form  of  inapprehensibility  and  of  suspension  of  judgement, according to Ascanius of Abdera'.44 But even if we allow that there was a genuine  oriental  influence,45 we  must  still  determine  whether  the  influence was felt on the practical or rather on the theoretical level. 
On  the  practical  level  it  has  been  maintained  that  Pyrrho  must  have borrowed from the east certain types of ascetic and 'impassive' behaviour which had no genuine precedents in the Greek world, but the oddities of 41 So Döring 1972; Decleva Caizzi 1981a. 
42 ε0ν  ται4  ζητη!σεσιν  υ/π' ου0δενο'  κατεφρονει4το  δια' το' ε0ξοδικω4  λε!γειν  και' προ' 
ε0ρω!τησιν ('in philosophical inquiries he was inferior to no one because he spoke continuously even  in  answering  questions').  We  must  certainly  reject  Wilamowitz'  conjecture  <και' 
δι>εξοδικω4 ('because he spoke equally well in continuous discourse and in replying to questions') which does not fit the context and which takes the wit from the remark. The MSS text is retained by Robin 1944, 22 (with excellent comments) and Decleva Caizzi 1981a, 42, 94, 182. 
43 Most of the general works on Pyrrho discuss the question; see also Frenkian 1958; Piantelli 1978; Flinto◊ 1980; Stopper 1983. 
44 The  'gymnosophists'  or  naked  sages  were  a  sort  of  fakir  -  like  the  legendary  Calanus  who climbed fearlessly onto the pyre and did not flinch as he burned, much to the astonishment of Alexander and his companions (Plu.  Alex. 69.7; Arr.  An. vii.3). 
45 But note the doubts in Long 1974, 80. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
244
t h e   b e g i n n i n g s   o f   h e l l e n i s t i c   e p i s t e m o l o g y Pyrrho's conduct have been sketched earlier and need not be rehearsed here.46 On the theoretical level, we must admit that the probability of any deep influence of Indian thought on Pyrrho is greatly reduced by the linguistic  obstacles  to  intellectual  communication  between  Greeks  and orientals.47 Despite this di√culty, some scholars have thought to find a precise trace of eastern influence in the use of a fourfold argument-schema or quadrilemma. The form is often used by certain Indian philosophers to expound problems and to show by successive steps that they are insoluble. (For example, is the world (1) eternal, or (2) non-eternal, or (3) both, or (4) neither?) Did Pyrrho use the schema? 
The question arises in connection with the most important surviving piece of evidence for Pyrrho's thought, namely the fragment of Aristocles ( apud  Eus.  PE  xiv.18.1-4). Here I cite only the part which is relevant to the quadrilemma. It is the statement of what you must say 'of each thing' if you are to be happy, namely: 'it no more is or is not or is and is not or neither  is  nor  is  not'.48 This  key  sentence  (like  so  many  key  sentences  in Greek philosophy) is, alas, syntactically ambiguous; and the translation has  tried  to  reproduce  the  ambiguity.  In  order  to  dissolve  it,  we  must choose between the following two constructions:
[A] Of each thing you must say <either> [A1] 'it no more is than is not' or
[A2] 'it both is and is not' or [A3] 'it neither is nor is not'. 
[B] Of each thing you must not say [B1] 'it is' rather than [B2] 'it is not', nor rather than [B3] 'it both is and is not' nor rather than [B4] 'it neither is nor is not'. 
The quadrilemmatic structure is found in [B], not in [A]. 
The choice between [A] and [B] bears on a second issue, philosophically far  more  significant.  According  to  [A]  we  are  to  state  the  contradictory propositions [A2] and [A3], while according to [B] we are to avoid stating these same propositions [B3] and [B4]. The question of the quadrilemma thus connects with the question of whether Pyrrho wanted deliberately to pick up the challenge thrown down by Aristotle to anyone who denied the principle of non-contradiction and to show that he could perfectly well speak and think in ways which Aristotle had claimed were impossible.49
46 Note merely that in reaction to the anecdotes which were intended to stress Pyrrho's eccentric-ity (Antigonus,  apud  D.L. ix.62-3), Aenesidemus maintained that he did not lack 'foresight' in practical a◊airs (D.L. ix.62). Certain anecdotes allow us to see how this double interpretation derived from the studied ambiguity of some of his sayings (see Brunschwig 1992). 
47 See Str. xiv.1.64. 
48 ου0 µα4λλον ε3στιν η5 ου0κ ε3στιν η5 και' ε3στιν και' ου0κ ε3στιν η5 ου3τε ε3στιν ου3τε ου0κ ε3στιν. 
49 The same problem arises at the practical level. Aristotle asks 'why does [anyone who rejects the principle] not fall into a well or over a precipice in the morning unless he thinks that it is  not equally good and not good to do so? It is quite plain that he thinks one better and the other Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
p y r r h o
245
Aristotle said, of anyone who rejected the principle, that 'plainly discussion with him gets nowhere since he says nothing; for [i] he does not say thus or not thus, but rather [ii] he says at the same time both thus and not  thus,  and  [iii]  conversely  he  denies  both  these  propositions,  saying neither thus nor not thus. Otherwise there would already be something determinate' ( Metaph. Γ.1008a30-4). If we compare this text with the text of Aristocles, then at first sight the comparison favours interpretation [A]:
[i] answers to [A1], [ii] to [A2] and [iii] to [A3]; it is just as if Pyrrho took over the words which Aristotle had found absurd. But it has been argued, in the opposite sense, that the parallelism between the two texts is in itself suspect.50 Moreover, the state of  'aphasia' which, according to Timon, is the  result  of  the  Pyrrhonian  'disposition',  excludes  the  assertion  of contradictory conjunctions such as [A2] and [A3]:  a fortiori  it excludes the separate assertion of each conjunct, which is implied in the assertion of the conjunction itself.51
These  are  real  di√culties  for  interpretation  [A]  (which  remains  the more commonly accepted and which is grammatically the more natural). 
But they do not oblige us to accept the quadrilemmatic interpretation, 
[B]. Rather, they encourage us to revise interpretation [A] in such a way that it does  not  encourage a violation of the principle of non-contradiction. Such a revision is possible enough: since [A1] does not violate the principle, whereas [A2] and [A3] do, we could suppose that [A2] and [A3]
are intended not as expressing alternatives to [A1] but rather as 'rhetorical variants, couched in a deliberately paradoxical form, of the ου0 µα4λλον
formula, <and> are not to be taken literally or at their face value'.52 Or, and perhaps better, [A2] and [A3] may be taken as expressing a  pis aller:
'"of each thing, do not say that it is rather than (ου0 µα4λλον ) is not"; or,  if you insist on a√rming or denying something, "a√rm both that it is and that it is not, or deny that it is and that it is not"'.53 In other words: do not a√rm anything  rather  than  deny  it;  but  if  you  must  a√rm  something,  then a√rm its contradictory at the same time, and if you must deny something, then deny its contradictory at the same time.54 Whatever the merits of such a solution, we may at least conclude that interpretation [A] can be worse' ( Metaph. Γ.10 08b15-19). The anecdotes about precipices and swamps, told in very similar  terms  by  Antigonus  in  D.L.,  seem  expressly  designed  to  show  that  Pyrrho  had  meant  to demonstrate  that  you  could  live  in  a  manner  which  Aristotle  had  declared  impossible.  See Conche 1973; Reale 1981. 
50 See Stopper 1983, 272-4. 
51 This point too is made by Stopper 1983, 274. 
52 Stopper 1983, 273. 
53 Robin 1944, 14 - my italics. 
54 We might suggest that Pyrrho found himself a√rming and denying for the same reason which made him climb trees when he was chased by fierce dogs: it is hard 'wholly to divest the man'
(D.L. ix.66). But in cases of verbal weakness, the fight τ4 λο!γ is easier - you need only add the contradictory. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
246
t h e   b e g i n n i n g s   o f   h e l l e n i s t i c   e p i s t e m o l o g y maintained  without  making  Pyrrho  into  an  enemy  of  the  principle  of non-contradiction. It follows that interpretation [B], with its orientali-zing implications, is not mandatory. 
It is now time to set down the whole of Aristocles' report. All commentators agree that it is of primary importance for understanding Pyrrho's thought. 
It is necessary to examine first of all our capacity for knowledge; for if by nature we are incapable of knowing anything, then there is no need to proceed further on any other subject. This was maintained by some people in the past whom Aristotle confuted.55 Pyrrho of Elis is famous for having said things of this sort; but he himself left nothing in writing. His pupil Timon says that anyone who is to be happy must consider the following three items: [1*] first, what things (τα' πρα!γµατα) are like by nature; [2*] secondly, what our attitude towards them ought to be; [3*]
finally, what will be the result for those who adopt this attitude. [1] As for the things, he (sc. Timon) says [1a] that he (sc. Pyrrho) declares them all to be equally without di◊erence, without balance, without decision (ε0π0 ι3ση α0δια!φορα και' α0στα!θµητα και' α0νεπι!κριτα), [1b] that for this  reason  (δια' του4το)  neither  our  perceptions  nor  our  beliefs  are either true or false. [2] This is why [2a] we must not trust them, but [2b]
must  be  without  belief,  without  inclination,  without  bending (α0δοξα!στου  και' α0κλινει4  και' α0κραδα!ντου), [2c] saying of each thing: it no more is than is not, or it is and it is not, or it neither is nor is not. [3] For those who adopt this attitude, Timon says, the result will be first  aphasia  and then tranquillity (α0ταραξι!α). (Aenesidemus says pleasure.) Such, then, are the main points of what they say. Let us now see if they are right. (Eusebius  PE  xiv.18.1-5)
The  text  has  a  complex  structure.  Eusebius  quotes  from  Book  viii of Aristocles'   On  Philosophy ( PE  xiv.17,  title  and  10).  Aristocles  himself  is summarizing  (τα' κεφα!λαια: xiv.16.5) a text taken from an unspecified work by Pyrrho's pupil, Timon, there being no texts from Pyrrho's own hand.  But  since  he  mentions  Aenesidemus,  he  cannot  have  taken  the whole passage directly from Timon. 
Whereas the relation between Aristocles and Timon has been the subject of much discussion, there has been too little interest in the relation which the text supposes to hold between Timon and Pyrrho: what exactly (according  to  Aristocles)  does  Timon  ascribe  to  Pyrrho?56 We  cannot answer: everything in the text. For in addition to the sentences preceded 55 Aristocles must be thinking of texts such as  Metaph. Γ.1007b20; Ι.1053a35; Κ.5-6. 
56 Here I summarize the ideas developed in Brunschwig 1994e; see also Bett 1994b. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
p y r r h o
247
by 'Timon says that . . .' we find one sentence, and only one, preceded by
'Timon says that Pyrrho declares . . .'. This is sentence [1a]; and, on syntactical grounds, it seems that we may assert that the text does not ascribe to Pyrrho what follows, namely inference [1b].57 Presumably Timon does not ascribe the inference to Pyrrho because it is in fact his own. 
The  content  of  the  inference  has  embarrassed  the  commentators.  If
'things' are 'without di◊erence, without balance, without decision', surely this  is  because  we  lack  the  means  to  di◊erentiate  and  to  balance  and  to decide  them?  The  cognitive  impotence  of  our  perceptions  and  beliefs ought, it seems, to be the  cause  and not the  consequence  of these characteristics of 'things'. This is why Zeller58 proposed to read δια' το' instead of δια' 
του4το  ('things are without di◊erence . . .  because  our perceptions . . .'). 
Certainly, the inference is found in this form among the Neopyrrhonians. 
Nonetheless, if an 'epistemological' premiss must thus be prefixed to the
'ontological' proposition [1a], it is hard to see why or in what sense the
'nature of things' could then be the  first  point which, according to Timon, anyone seeking happiness should consider. Can we conserve the transmitted text and at the same time give a decent sense to the inference? 
Some scholars have tried to do so by giving the three Pyrrhonian adjectives an 'objective' rather than a 'subjective' meaning.59 Others have preferred an ethical meaning.60 In fact, there is a very simple way of ensuring that the inference is not 'zany':61 we need only suppose that, for Timon (if not  also  for  Pyrrho)  our  perceptions  and  our  beliefs  are  themselves
'things'  (πρα!γµατα).  With  this  premiss  understood,  what  holds  of
'things' in general will hold also of perceptions and beliefs in particular -
and  we  need  only  add  that  the  special  way  in  which  perceptions  and beliefs are 'without di◊erence, without balance, without decision' consists in being 'neither true nor false'.62
If we put these di◊erent observations together, we shall conclude that it was  Timon  who  took  it  on  himself  to  subsume  perceptions  and  beliefs under the general heading of 'things' and hence to give Pyrrho's thought 57 It is natural to construe the sentence as consisting of two acc.⫹ inf. clauses depending on φησι!ν
('Timon says (a) that Pyrrho declares . . ., and (b) that for this reason our perceptions . . .') rather than as a conjunction of a participial clause and an acc.⫹ inf. clause, each of which depends on α0ποφαι!νειν ('Timon says that Pyrrho declares (a) things to be indi◊erent . . . and (b)  that  for this reason our perceptions . . .'). 
58 1870, 493 n. 2; warmly endorsed by Stopper 1983, 293. 
59 See esp. Decleva Caizzi 1981a, 104, 223-7. 
60 See the references in Görler 1985, 333, and esp. Ausland 1989. 
61 As Stopper calls it: 1983, 293. 
62 On this interpretation we need not be embarrassed by the fact that, according to [1b], our perceptions and beliefs are  neither  true  nor  false: on other interpretations logic suggests that they should simply be called false. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
248
t h e   b e g i n n i n g s   o f   h e l l e n i s t i c   e p i s t e m o l o g y an epistemological complexion - a complexion which it cannot originally have had, precisely because Timon found the need to introduce it. If we remove from Aristocles' text everything which derives from Timon rather than from Pyrrho, that is, at least [1b] and [2a], then the remainder has no epistemological significance. For the remainder is a three part recipe for happiness:  the  first  part  concerns  'the  nature  of  the  things'  (in  a  sense di◊erent from the one adopted by Timon, namely: the nature of things and of states of a◊airs to the extent that they bear upon our acting, πρα!ττειν, and form possible objects of positive or negative choice); the second part concerns the attitude which we ought to take to 'things' of this sort; and the third part describes the ethical gains which will accrue from this attitude. Nothing in all this, so construed, bears on the problem of our cognitive access to the world: on the contrary, everything bears on the problem of our moral attitude and of our happiness. If we ascribe to Timon rather than to Pyrrho the epistemological part of Aristocles' text, then we have confirmation of the ethical interpretation of Pyrrho's philosophy which has  rivalled  the  dominant  epistemological  interpretation  ever  since  the time of Cicero. 
Let  me  briefly  o◊er  a  second  argument  for  the  same  conclusion.  We have seen earlier that at the beginning of his account of Pyrrho, Diogenes Laertius draws on the unknown Ascanius of Abdera in order to find in Pyrrho's travels in the East and his meetings with the gymnosophists and the  Mages  the  origins  of  the  'noble  mode  of  philosophizing'  which  he introduced into Greece. This noble mode consisted in 'the form of inapprehensibility and of suspension of judgement' - that is to say, a sceptical theory of knowledge.63 What did Diogenes (or his source) find to justify this interpretation? 'Pyrrho said that nothing is either noble or ignoble, just or unjust, and that similarly in every case nothing is in truth - rather, men  do  everything  which  they  do  by  convention  and  custom;  for  each thing is no more this than that.' The generalizations in the text ('nothing', 
'in every case', 'everything') seem at first sight to have a vast scope - indeed it is tempting to believe that they cover all possible predicates ('each thing is no more F than not-F') including even existence itself ('nothing exists in truth'). But the context invites us to limit the generalizations to ethical predicates of the sort illustrated in the text ('noble' and 'ignoble', 'just'
and 'unjust'); and 'truth' is contrasted, in the context, simply with 'convention and custom' which determine the actions of men.64
63 See above, p. 44 and n. 243. 
64 The  strictly  practical  import  of  the  paragraph  seems  to  be  confirmed  by  the  next  sentence: α0κο!λουθο δ' η9ν και τ4 βι! ('he was consistent <with these declarations> in his practical life Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
p y r r h o
249
This being so, it is easier to understand how Timon, when he decided to speak  in  his  master's   persona,65 was  able  to  endow  his  moral  'word  of truth' with what has seemed a strangely dogmatic tone.66 It is also easier to understand the attitude of Epicurus and of the first Stoics, who were early engaged in bloody battles with the sceptical Academy but who seem to have had no interest in attacking Pyrrhonian scepticism.67 Pyrrho was not the first Pyrrhonian. The first Pyrrhonian was Timon, the most celebrated of Pyrrho's immediate pupils. 
*
Timon played a major part in placing Pyrrho's thought in its historical and philosophical setting, and it was he, it seems, who first gave Pyrrho's ideas an epistemological complexion. Next something must be said about the epistemological aspects (such as they are) of Timon's work. 
In  analysing  the  text  of  Aristocles  we  found  arguments  to  show  that Timon had introduced into his exposition of Pyrrho's thought an epistemological motif which was not originally there. This fits well with other texts  which  indicate  Timon's  own  epistemological  interests.  He  wrote  a work  On Perception (cited by D.L. ix.105), in which he expressed an idea typical of Neopyrrhonian phenomenalism and illustrated it with an example which  was  to  become  celebrated:  'That  honey  is  sweet,  I  do  not  a√rm (ου0 τι!θηµι); that it seems so (φαι!νεται) I allow.' The same phenomenalism is attested by a verse from the  Indalmoi  which is quoted several times:68 'But appearance (φαινο!µενον) dominates everywhere, wherever it can reach.'
Timon also found occasion to exercise his satirical muscles in epistemological  discussion.  According  to  D.L.  ix.114  'against  those  who  claimed that the senses had value when they were confirmed by the intellect, he used  constantly  to  cite  the  line:  "Attagas  and  Numenius  have  joined forces"'.  Attagas  and  Numenius,  it  seems,  were  two  celebrated  bandits; and whatever the precise sense of the barb, its aim was evidently to discredit the senses and the mind at the same time. It thus appears to attack a very precise epistemological position, namely a non-Epicurean version of the  theory  of  confirmation  or  ε0πιµαρτυ!ρησι.69 It  is  noteworthy  that too'). Given the context, Dumont 1969, 720 and 1972, 176, 190-1 etc. is surely wrong to translate 'He took ordinary life as his guide' (modelled on the several Neopyrrhonian formulae of a similar form and with this sense: S.E.  M  xi.165;  PH  iii.2; etc.). 
65 Cf. S.E.  M  xi.20 (⫽ Indalmoi  fr. 68 Diels). 
66 On  this  much  discussed  fragment  see  Brochard  1887  (1923),  62;  Robin  1944,  31;  Burnyeat 1980b (who suggests an ingenious way of silencing the dogmatic tone); Decleva Caizzi 1981a, 255-62. 
67 See Vander Waerdt 1989. 
68 D.L. ix.105; S.E.  M  vii.30; Gal.  Dig. Puls. i.2. 
69 See below, pp. 283-5. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
250
t h e   b e g i n n i n g s   o f   h e l l e n i s t i c   e p i s t e m o l o g y Timon  'constantly'  engaged  in  epistemological  discussions  of  this  sort. 
Nor was he content to limit his answer to a joke. According to Sextus  M
iii.2,  he  wrote  a  book   Against  the  Physicists  in  which  he  seems  to  have treated seriously and technically certain fundamental issues in the philosophy of science: he urges us to consider first of all the question of what principles should be adopted 'by hypothesis' and without demonstration.70
It  is  interesting,  too,  to  learn  that  Timon  was  much  engaged  with Arcesilaus: for the most part he attacked him;71 but he also wrote in praise of  him  -  presumably  after  Arcesilaus'  death  -  in  his   Funeral  Banquet  for Arcesilaus. According to Numenius (quoted by Eus.  PE  xiv.6.5), he went so far as to recognize Arcesilaus' title to the name σκεπτικο! or 'sceptic' - a report  which  is  probably  not  literally  correct  but  which  may  contain  a kernel of truth. We may suppose that the initial animosity which Timon felt towards Arcesilaus, who belonged to his own generation, was motivated by the desire to show Pyrrho as the inaugurator of a sceptical philosophy for which Arcesilaus, although he hid in the shadow of Socrates and Plato,  himself  claimed  authorship.  Thus  Timon  needed  to  show  that Arcesilaus had plagiarized Pyrrho, that he had added nothing to the scepticism which Pyrrho had invented apart from the fraudulent resources of dialectic  and  eristic.72 The  best  -  if  not  the  most  elegant  -  way  of  discounting  the  originality  of  Arcesilaus  was  plainly  to  inject,  retrospectively, a suitable dose of epistemology into Pyrrho's thought; and this is precisely what Timon did. Once the operation had been performed (and once Arcesilaus was dead), Timon could a◊ord to be magnanimous and to
'point out not the elements of disagreement but rather the elements of agreement  between  his  own  position  and  that  of  the  philosopher  who, throughout his life, had been his rival'.73
Given the ambivalent interest which Timon showed for the person and the thought of Arcesilaus, it may well seem 'plausible to assume that the Pyrrho of Timon's writings represents the doctrine Timon himself developed  under  Pyrrho's  influence  -  at  a  time  when  the  debate  between Academic  sceptics  and  the  dogmatists  was  well  under  way  and  had reached considerable sophistication'.74 Pyrrho's role in the creation of a 70 On the hypothetical method from Aristotle to the Neopyrrhonians see above, p. 231 and n. 6. 
71 D.L. ix.115, fully confirmed by fragments 31-4 of the  Silli. 
72 See the fragments of the  Silli  reported by D.L. iv.33 and Numen.  ap. Eus.  PE  XIV.5.11-14 (⫽ fr. 
25 des Places). The rapid success of Timon's operation is shown by the celebrated verse of the Stoic Aristo of Chios who, parodying Homer in a very Timonian vein, described Arcesilaus as
'Plato in front, Pyrrho behind, Diodorus [Cronus, the celebrated dialectician] in the middle'
(S.E.  PH  i.234; Numen.  apud  Eus.  PE  xiv.5.13). 
73 Di Marco 1989, 14. 
74 Frede 1973, 806. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
c y r e n a i c   e p i s t e m o l o g y
251
sceptical theory of knowledge, then, is no more than an  ex post facto  invention; and the invention dates not from Aenesidemus in the first century bc but rather - to some degree at least - from Timon two centuries earlier. 
This  may  help  us  to  understand  why  the  problem  of  distinguishing between  Academic  and  Pyrrhonian  scepticism,  to  which  the  ancients themselves devoted whole essays,75 has remained unsolved and is perhaps insoluble: the two traditions were contaminated from the start. We can also understand why the ancients disagreed with one another about the continuation of Timon's school.76 The e◊orts of those ancient scholars who were set on discovering gapless 'successions' only masked the fact that the success of Timon's operation was ephemeral. The lively and fertile epistemological debates during the Hellenistic period are those which match the Stoics with the Academics and the Epicureans. We must wait until Aenesidemus for the name of Pyrrho to come to the surface again. 
This time, it is true, it will remain afloat for centuries. 
iii Cyrenaic epistemology
The sceptical Academy is not the only Hellenistic school to produce an epistemology  which  would  later  attract  the  Neopyrrhonians:  the Cyrenaics  did  so  too.77 Although  the  school  is  often  presented  in  the doxography as though its sole interest were ethics,78 so that today it is primarily  known  for  championing  a  moral  hedonism  which  is  at  odds on certain  central  points  with  Epicurean  hedonism,79 it  in  fact  also advanced,  probably  from  the  second  half  of  the  fourth  century,  certain epistemological  views.  The  epistemology  was  original  and  radical  and strictly sceptical in tenor - at least insofar as the external world is concerned. Alas, we are ill informed on the theory and our sources are rare and for the most part hostile. 
The Cyrenaics are traditionally counted among the 'minor Socratics'. 
Story  ascribes  the  foundation  of  the  school  to  Aristippus  of  Cyrene,  a 75 See above, n. 12. 
76 See D.L. ix.115-16. 
77 Basic texts: the complex doxography in D.L. ii.65-104, which juxtaposes an account of the doctrines 'common' to the school and accounts of the various 'independent' members of the sect, and which is particularly concerned with Cyrenaic ethics and psychology; see also Aristocl.  ap. 
Eus.  PE  xiv.19.1-7; Plu.  Col. 1120b-f; S.E.  M  vii.190-20 0. Fragments and testimonia have been collected  and  edited  more  than  once:  Mannebach  1961;  Giannantoni  1958,  1990.  A  detailed study of Cyrenaic epistemology in Tsouna McKirahan 1992 and 1998. 
78 See esp. Arist.  Metaph. Β.996a29-b1; Eus.  PE  xv.62.7-11 (it is not clear how this testimonium should be divided between Aristippus and Aristo of Chios); but the idea that the Cyrenaics were solely interested in ethics must be qualified - see D.L. ii.92, and esp. S.E.  M  vii.11 (⫽ Sen.  Ep. 
89.12). 
79 See esp. Bollack 1975; Döring 1988; Laks 1993b. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
252
t h e   b e g i n n i n g s   o f   h e l l e n i s t i c   e p i s t e m o l o g y friend of Socrates and a contemporary of Plato. But it is unlikely that we should attribute to Aristippus, who was a witty and sophisticated devotee of  pleasure,  the  philosophical  elaboration  of  Cyrenaic  hedonism,80 let alone the peculiar epistemology of the school, which is in many respects of a piece with its psychology and its ethics. The elaboration of all this was probably the work of Aristippus the Younger, known as the Metrodidact because  he  had  received  his  philosophical  education  from  his  mother, Arete, who was the daughter and pupil of the older Aristippus. 
The career of the Cyrenaic school was relatively short: there are only five generations of teachers and pupils in the 'succession' at D.L. ii.86, which is in any event a fabrication. But it was an active career. As well as those who kept alive the spirit of the school's founder, we hear of three philosophers  who  introduced  innovations  and  ideas  of  their  own: Hegesias, Anniceris, Theodorus. But as far as epistemology is concerned we cannot tell whether these three men held any theories of their own; and, relying on the evidence of Eusebius ( PE  xiv.18.31-2), we may assume that  Cyrenaic  epistemology  is  essentially  the  creation  of  the  younger Aristippus,81 and hence of a thinker who stands, chronologically, somewhere between Pyrrho and Epicurus. 
Virtually the whole of Cyrenaic epistemology is contained in a phrase which all our sources report in almost the same words: 'feelings (πα!θη) alone are apprehensible (καταληπτα!)'. The language is mongrel: if it is certain that the word 'πα!θο' played an important part in all aspects of Cyrenaic thought, 'καταληπτο!' belongs to the epistemological vocabulary of the Stoa, and it must have been borrowed thence to express the Cyrenaic thesis either by later members of the school or else by the doxographical  tradition.  Eusebius  perhaps  preserves  the  wording  originally used by Aristippus:82 'we have perception (αι3σθησι) of feelings alone'. 
Any account of Cyrenaic epistemology will consist in a commentary on this phrase. 
First let us consider the word 'πα!θο'. It belongs to the same family as the  verb  'πα!σχειν'  ('undergo',  'su◊er',  'feel');  and  it  denotes  any  e◊ect produced on a patient by the action of an agent which a◊ects it. The word does not in itself imply that the patient is a perceiving subject: a heated stone 'su◊ers' under the action of fire. Nonetheless, we may ask whether 80 The cardinal text is Eus.  PE  xiv.18.31-2. But see Döring 1988. 
81 Aristocl.  ap. Eus.  PE  xiv.19.1, ascribes the epistemological theory to 'some of the people from Cyrene'. It is hard to give a precise sense to this phrase; but it is plain that Aristocles would not have  used  it  had  he  thought  that  the  theory  had  been  common  doctrine  in  the  school  since Aristippus the Elder. 
82 So Mannebach 1961, 116. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
c y r e n a i c   e p i s t e m o l o g y
253
the Cyrenaic notion of 'feeling' should be understood as a physical change or  whether  it  denotes  a  subjective  psychological  experience  or  perhaps muddles these two things together. 
Certain texts suggest a physical interpretation. According to the doxography 'common' to the whole school, the Cyrenaics 'posited two feelings, pain and pleasure, the one, pleasure, being a smooth movement and the other, pain, a rough movement' (D.L. ii.86). The two feelings seem here to be identified with two movements, each of which is characterized in physical terms; and the identification appears to be confirmed by some of the words which the Cyrenaics used to express perceptible feelings: 'we can say infallibly . . . and irrefutably that we are whitened (λευκαινο!µεθα) and that we are sweetened (γλυκαζο!µεθα)' (S.E.  M  vii.191). 
Some scholars have in fact cited these expressions as evidence that the Cyrenaic  doctrine  was  not  precisely  delineated:  for  this  reason  (and  not merely because of the paucity of our evidence) we cannot tell whether they had in mind a physical alteration (the 'whitening' of the eyes) or the subjective mode (the impression of white) in which it is sensed.83 And yet there are arguments which favour a straightforwardly subjective interpretation: (a)  Expressions  of  the  form  'we  are  whitened'  are  not  the  only  ones which the Cyrenaics used to express their feelings: they also made use of some notable neologisms, such as 'to be disposed whitely (λευκαντικω4
διατιθη4ναι)' (S.E.  M  vii.192). The locution is so original that we must suppose it to have been introduced precisely in order to distinguish the subjective experience from the physical change: if a stone is painted white you will surely not say that it is 'whitely disposed'. 
(b) The physicalist identification of pleasure and pain with particular kinds of movement must in all probability be qualified, either by taking the terms 'smooth movement' and 'rough movement' metaphorically or else  and  better  by  distinguishing  between  a  physical  movement  and  its e◊ect on subjective consciousness. A definition which is ascribed at D.L. 
ii.85 to the elder Aristippus identifies the goal of life ( telos) with 'smooth movement when it reaches to perception (ει0 αι3σθησιν α0ναδιδοµε!νην)': we may infer that some physical alterations are subliminal and have no conscious e◊ects, and that a movement gives rise to a feeling if and only if it crosses the threshold of perception. We have seen earlier, in a phrase which perhaps preserves the very words of the younger Aristippus, that the  notion  of  perception  was  used  precisely  to  describe  the  relation between an a◊ected subject and the feeling. 
83 See Burnyeat 1982a, 27-8; and, with qualifications, Everson 1991b, 128-47. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
254
t h e   b e g i n n i n g s   o f   h e l l e n i s t i c   e p i s t e m o l o g y (c) One of the most important consequences of the Cyrenaic theory is that feelings cannot be shared, that they are strictly private to the person whom they a◊ect. 
Everyone grasps his own feelings. Whether a particular feeling comes to him  and  to  his  neighbour  from  something  white  neither  he  nor  his neighbour can say, since neither receives the other's feelings. Since there are no feelings common to us all, it is rash to say that what appears thus-and-so to me also appears thus-and-so to my neighbour. Perhaps I am so composed as to be whitened by the external object which impresses me whereas someone else has perceptions so constituted as to be di◊erently disposed. (S.E.  M  vii.196-7)
Now 'it would seem di√cult to read this as anything other than an argument for the privacy, and hence the subjectivity, of experience'.84
The Cyrenaic concept of feeling raises a further question. How, within the class of feelings, do we characterize those which immediately concern ethics,  namely  pleasure  and  pain  (the  a◊ective  feelings  as  we  may  call them),  and  those  which  immediately  concern  epistemology,  namely
'whitening' and other items of this sort (the representative feelings as we may call them)? The question must be answered in two stages. 
First, a◊ective feelings seem never to be simply a◊ective and without any representative component. As examples of expressions of a◊ects our texts never o◊er us such phrases as 'I am enjoying myself ' or 'It hurts'; rather, they o◊er phrases such as 'I am burned' and 'I am cut' (Aristocl. 
 apud  Eus.  PE  xiv.19.1).  Hence  we  must  suppose  that,  within  the  very experience of pain, there is a di◊erence in 'colour' between the pain of a burn and the pain of a cut. 
Secondly, we might ask whether, if there are no purely a◊ective feelings, there are any purely representative feelings. It is not easy to find an answer.  According  to  the  'common'  doxography  in  D.L.  ii.89-90,  the Cyrenaics  rejected  the  view,  which  they  ascribed  to  Epicurus,  that  'the removal of whatever causes pain' is a pleasure - a 'static' or 'catastematic'
pleasure which the Epicureans identified as the supreme good. According to the Cyrenaics, the absence of pain is not pleasure nor the absence of pleasure pain. Now these two 'intermediate states (µε!σαι καταστα!σει)', precisely because they are states and not movements, are unconscious: the absence of pain is 'like being asleep'.85 If it is essential to a feeling to be 84 Everson 1991b, 130. 
85 According  to  Clem.  Strom.  ii.21.130.8,  the  Cyrenaics  of  Anniceris'  persuasion  'rejected Epicurus' definition of pleasure as absence of pain, saying that that was the state of a corpse'. 
The analogy with sleep is not very di◊erent; and it seems that we may conclude from this text Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
c y r e n a i c   e p i s t e m o l o g y
255
conscious, then we must infer that there are no feelings which are neither pleasant  nor  painful,  and  hence  that  there  are  no  purely  representative feelings. 
Is  this  conclusion  supported  by  the  passage  in  Eusebius  which  has already been mentioned more than once? 
Aristippus the Younger [. . .] used to say that there were three states in which we could be: one in which we are in pain, and which is like a storm at sea; a second in which we experience pleasure, and which is like a gentle swell (for pleasure is a smooth movement, like a favouring wind); and the third, intermediate, in which we feel neither pain nor pleasure, and which is like a flat calm. It is of these feelings alone, he said, that we have perception. (του!των  δη' και' ε3φασκε  τω4ν  παθω4ν  µο!νων  η/µα4  τη'ν
αι3σθησιν ε3χειν; Eusebius  PE  xiv.18.32)
The thesis expressed here di◊ers in certain points from what we read in the  doxography  in  Diogenes.  There  is  no  longer  the  contrast  between states (without movement) and  movements (identical with, or at least tied to, feelings). According to Aristippus our psychophysical compound may be in any of three possible states, symbolized by the three possible states of the sea;86 and to these states there appear to correspond feelings, symbolized by the movement, violent or smooth, of the air. 
But is there a conscious feeling corresponding to the intermediate state, so  that  there  will  therefore  be  feelings  which  are  purely  representative? 
Everything turns on the reference of the words 'these feelings' (του!των
τω4ν παθω4ν) in the final sentence of the quotation. If it refers implicitly to the  feelings  which  accompany  the   three  states  which  have  just  been described, then the answer to our question must be Yes (and the text then confirms Sextus  M  vii.199, which ascribes to the Cyrenaics the idea of a feeling 'intermediate between pleasure and pain'). But this is not the only possible interpretation. It has been suggested that the words refer right back to the beginning of the text which ascribes to the Cyrenaics in general the thesis that 'feelings alone (that is, in contrast to external objects) can be apprehended'.87 But since our sentence certainly refers to Aristippus the younger (ε3φασκε), we might more economically and more exactly suppose that the words 'these feelings' denote only the feelings of pleasure and pain that certain elements of late Cyrenaicism have been intruded into the 'common' doxography in D.L. In any event, the many items of anti-Epicurean polemic which are found there can hardly be explained in any other way. 
86 Note that in Aristippus there is only one intermediate state, whereas in D.L. ii.90 there are two, absence of pleasure and absence of pain. The Cyrenaics had presumably found it necessary to distinguish them in order to attack the Epicurean identification of catastematic pleasure with mere absence of pain. 
87 Laks 1993b, 26 n. 31. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
256
t h e   b e g i n n i n g s   o f   h e l l e n i s t i c   e p i s t e m o l o g y which have just been mentioned as the items  absent  from the intermediate state.88 It  is  prudent,  then,  not  to  ascribe  to  Aristippus  the  notion  of  a purely representative feeling: every 'whitening' is pleasant if it is gentle, painful if it is violent. And thus the Cyrenaic epistemology is not independent of their ethics. 
In what sense is it, properly speaking, an epistemology at all? The basic thesis, that 'feelings alone are apprehensible', plainly implies that feelings are  apprehensible.  Although  the  proposition  in  this  second  form  is extremely rare in our sources89 and although the term 'καταληπτο!' is not authentically Cyrenaic, it has nevertheless often been supposed, from antiquity onwards, that one of the great novelties of the school was to have realized, contrary to the dominant philosophical tradition, that internal states or events constitute suitable objects of knowledge and suitable contents of true propositions.90 It seems, however, that the Cyrenaics did not care to put much emphasis on this positive side of their thesis - certainly they did not use it in order to refute any version of scepticism. 
In stressing that 'feelings  alone  are apprehensible', they were primarily concerned to contrast feelings with all other things, which, unlike feelings,  are  not  apprehensible.  The  inapprehensible  remainder  consists essentially of the causes of the feelings: 'feelings alone are apprehended and  they  are  infallible:  of  the  items  which  have  produced  the  feelings, none  is  either  apprehensible  or  infallible'  (S.E.  M  vii.191).  'The  feeling which comes about in us shows us nothing apart from itself ' ( ibid. 194). 
That the causes of feelings are inapprehensible is reflected clearly in the fact that no cause is mentioned in the sentences by which the Cyrenaics express feelings ('I am burned', 'I am whitely disposed'). Hence, no doubt, the vacillation in our sources when it comes to describing more precisely what it is that the Cyrenaics refuse to a√rm. Take, say, the feeling of being burned, expressed by the sentence 'I am burned': sometimes it is said that the patient cannot distinguish the cause of his feeling from any other hot item;91 sometimes that he can identify the cause but cannot say whether it is naturally such as to burn;92 sometimes - and this is the minimal and 88 I thank Pierre Pellegrin and Francis Wol◊ for drawing my attention to this possibility. 
89 It appears at D.L. ii.92, but in a suspect form and loosely anchored in the context. 
90 Cic.  Acad. ii.142 and 20: the Cyrenaics admit no 'criterion of truth' apart from  permotiones intu-mae  which are apprehended by the  tactus interior (or  tactus intumus: ii.76). In the same vein S.E. 
 M  vii.191 says that according to the Cyrenaics the feelings are κριτη!ρια - which amounts to saying that they give us access to truth. 
91 See Aristocl.  apud  Eus.  PE  xiv.19.1: 'if they were burned or cut, they said that they knew that they experienced something but could not say whether what burned them was fire or what cut them was steel'. 
92 See Anon.  In Tht. 65.33-9: 'That I am burned, they say, I grasp; but whether or not fire is natu-Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
c y r e n a i c   e p i s t e m o l o g y
257
perhaps also the most accurate version - that he cannot even say whether the cause is hot.93
Two further points may be made. First, if the feelings 'do not show us anything apart from themselves', then at least they do show us themselves, that is to say, they show us everything which they have, so to speak, as their internal objects. When the Cyrenaics were asked by their opponents to admit that, since they knew their own feelings, they knew much more than they were willing to say,94 they maintained firmly that they knew nothing at all about the external cause of the feeling or of its intrinsic and objective properties; but they surely allowed that they knew all the internal characteristics of the feeling (for example, the fact that it belongs to a self, which is implied by such expressions as 'I am whitened'; its relative time and place; its sensory modality; whether it is pleasant or painful). 
Secondly, the actual existence of causes external to us which produce our  feelings  is  never  doubted.95 Not  for  a  moment  supposing  that  we could be the causes of our own feelings, the Cyrenaics applied a version of the principle of causality which was too weak to allow them to a√rm that since they are a◊ected F-ly the cause of the feeling must itself be F, but which was strong enough to allow them to assert that there exists a cause which  produced  the  feeling  and  that  this  cause  is  capable,  given  the circumstances in which it acts and our own state at the time we are acted upon, of producing in us the precise e◊ect which it does produce. We may thus describe the cause of the feeling 'I am burned' as the 'burner' of this burning.96 In  this  sense  it  is  correct  to  say  that  the  Cyrenaics  were  no exception to the general truth that Greek thought had realist presuppositions. 
In the same way, the Cyrenaics seem to have admitted without question the existence of other minds. (At any rate, our sources show no trace of any  doubts  on  this  score.)  In  their  illustrative  examples,  they  pass rally such as to burn [καυστικο!ν], that is unclear - for if it were so, everything would be burned by it.'
93 This emerges from S.E.  M  vii.191-2 if we change the example: 'That we are whitened, they say, or sweetened, we can say infallibly . . . and irrefutably; but that what produces the feeling is white or sweet we cannot a√rm. For it is likely that someone might be whitely disposed by something not white or sweetened by something not sweet.'
94 See the long list of objections made by Aristocl.  apud  Eus.  PE  xiv.19.2-7. 
95 See the picturesque image in Plu.  Col. 1120b: 'Like men in a besieged castle, they evacuate the outer areas and shut themselves up in their feelings.' One text which might lead us to suspect that the Cyrenaics had doubted the existence of these 'outer areas' is a passage at   M  vii.194
where Sextus says that 'the external object which causes the feeling perhaps exists [τα!χα µε!ν
ε0στιν ο3ν] but is not apparent to us'. But it may be urged that in this text Sextus is rewriting the theory in the phenomenalist terms which are familiar to him (Tsouna McKirahan 1992, 172-4). 
Another text,  M  vi.53, can be still more easily explained away in terms of contextual considerations ( ibid. 189 n. 133). 
96 το' και!ον: Aristocl.  apud  Eus.  PE  xiv.19.1. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
258
t h e   b e g i n n i n g s   o f   h e l l e n i s t i c   e p i s t e m o l o g y indi◊erently  from  singular  ('I  am  burned')  to  plural  ('We  are  burned'). 
They  upheld  an  interesting  version  of  a  conventionalist  theory  of  language;97 but they did not ask how we know that there is anyone else to talk to or that anyone else experiences any feelings, given that these feelings are inaccessible to us - no more than they asked how and why our language functions for most of the time without a hitch. We do not know whether the Cyrenaics explicitly raised the question of other minds, nor, if they did, how they answered it. 
There  are  at  least  three  other  problems  on  which  we  are  equally  ill informed. First, on which side of the border between the apprehensible and the inapprehensible are we to place our own bodies? If the feelings to which we have access are strictly mental, then the Cyrenaics must logically require that our own bodies be considered as part of the exterior world whose existence we are entitled to assume but about which we can know nothing. Thus if I su◊er from toothache nothing allows me to say that it is because I have got teeth, still less that it is because my teeth are decayed.  Alas,  our  sources  present  no  examples  in  the  least  similar  to this. 
Secondly, the fact that the feeling belongs to its subject might, as we have seen, be regarded as a feature of the feeling itself. But feelings, like pleasure, last only a moment (µονο!χρονον: Athen. xii.544d). Then does a Cyrenaic know that it was the same self which was burned on Monday and whitened on Tuesday? And if he knows it, how does he know it? 
Thirdly, the same problem of synthetic unity arises about objects. The feelings which the Cyrenaics had in mind, to judge from their illustrative examples,  always  correspond  to  elementary  qualitative  impressions (white, sweet, and so on). The Epicurean Colotes ridiculed their theory by extending it to objects: 'Here are people who won't say that there is a man or a horse or a wall - they say that they are manned or horsed or walled'
(Plu.  Col.  1120d).  Plutarch's  only  criticism  of  Colotes  is  to  say  that  he ought  to  have  expressed  the  Cyrenaic  theory  in  terms  used  by  the Cyrenaics themselves; but he allows that 'their theory has these implications'. In fact this is far from clear. On the contrary, it is probable that the Cyrenaics only allowed elementary feelings. But do these feelings, according  to  their  theory,  combine  to  make  a  conscious  representation  of  an object which is both white and sweet and . . .? And if so, how? We have no way of answering these questions. 
97 See S.E.  M  vii.196-8: 'everyone calls things white or sweet in common; but the things have nothing white or sweet in common since each person only grasps his own feelings. . . . Thus we impose [τιθε!ναι] common names on objects although we have private feelings.'
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
c y r e n a i c   e p i s t e m o l o g y
259
With this admission of frustration - which may be the e◊ect either of the  chances  of  survival  or  of  lacunae  in  the  original  theory  -  I  end  the account of Cyrenaic epistemology. Despite everything, the theory surely remains one of the most original and interesting which Hellenistic philosophy has to o◊er us.98
98
This chapter has been translated by Jonathan Barnes. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
8
Epicurean epistemology
e l i z a b e t h   a s m i s
i Canonic
The two main issues of Epicurean epistemology may be put as follows: what is the foundation of knowledge; and how is knowledge built on this foundation? There is general agreement that Epicurus proposed to rely on sensory  observations  as  a  means  of  knowing  what  is  unobserved.  But there is much debate on the extent to which he proposed to rely on empirical observations, on what he took to be the basic objects of observation, and on how he proposed to proceed from sensory information to the discovery of what is not perceived by the senses. 
It has been argued that Epicurus proposed to use empirical observation as the only means of determining the truth or falsity of beliefs. He set out two rules of investigation at the beginning of his physics requiring that the truth and falsity of beliefs rest entirely on sensory observations. The two rules consist of a demand for empirical concepts and a demand for empirical data. The latter consist of uninterpreted, or what may be called
'raw' or 'incorrigible', acts of perception. Epicurus proposed to infer all truths about the physical world and human happiness from this incorrigible foundation.1
Against  this  interpretation,  it  has  been  held  that  Epicurus  was  not nearly  as  methodical  in  his  use  of  empirical  observations.  Rather,  he accepted many nonempirical claims, while proposing to support theories (much  like  Aristotle)  by  agreement  with  perception.  Although  he  supposed that all perceptions are in a sense incorrigible, Epicurus singled out what are ordinarily called true perceptions as the basis for checking scientific theories. Thus he bolstered his atomic theories by adding empirical evidence, but did not propose a method for inferring physical and ethical truths solely on the basis of empirical facts. 
The  following  discussion  attempts  to  adjudicate  between  these  two 1 See in general Asmis 1984, and Barnes 1996a. 
[260]
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
c a n o n i c
261
interpretations.  Epicurus'  epistemology  was  considered  problematic, even incoherent, from its very beginning. Epicurus' followers engaged in the  debate  and  tried  to  strengthen  his  arguments.  The  polemics  that ensued can be confusing. Yet there is enough novelty and brilliance about the Epicurean e◊ort to encourage the modern investigator to sort out the ancient lines of inquiry and propose a reconstruction. For regardless of their answers, Epicurus and his followers advanced epistemology enormously  by  the  way  they  framed  their  problems.  Epicurus  plotted  the ascent from sensory experience to knowledge of the hidden structure of the world by distinguishing, in the first place, between what is 'evident'
(ε0ναργε!)  and  what  is  'nonevident'  (α3δηλον).  The  'evident'  is  known immediately by sense perception and by preconceptions based on sense perception; the 'nonevident' must be inferred. Epicurus also drew a contrast  between  uninterpreted  sensory  information  and  belief,  between ordinary and scientific concepts, and between conjectures and scientific conclusions. In elaborating these distinctions, he elevated epistemology into a major branch of philosophy. 
The sources on Epicurean epistemology extend from Epicurus himself to Sextus Empiricus and beyond. Because relatively little is preserved of Epicurus'  own  writings,  we  must  often  resort  to  later  reports,  some  of which are quite detailed. A basic point of di◊erence among modern interpreters concerns the reliability of these later sources. 
*
Epicurus invented (so far as we know) the term 'canonic' (κανονικη!) to designate  epistemology  as  a  branch  of  philosophy.  Etymologically, canonic is the science of using a 'measuring stick' or canon (κανω!ν). It was the  subject  of  a  work  by  Epicurus,  Canon (also  called   On  the  Criterion), which  is  no  longer  extant.  Sextus  Empiricus  ( M  vii.22)  describes Epicurean canonic as dealing with what is 'evident' and 'nonevident' and related  matters.  It  has  two  components:  it  deals  with  the  measures  by which we obtain an immediate grasp of what is true or 'evident'; and it deals with how we use what is 'evident' as a measure of what is 'nonevident'. 
In Epicurus' philosophical system, canonic takes the place of logic or dialectic as the first subject of study. It is also closely linked with physics. 
Whereas the Stoics classified logic as the first of three parts of philosophy, co-ordinate with physics and ethics, Epicurus joined canonic to physics as both preliminary and subordinate to it. 
It  was  commonplace  to  accuse  Epicurus  and  his  followers  of  being Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
262
e p i c u r e a n   e p i s t e m o l o g y
ignorant of logic. Epicurus' followers retorted that the truth that others seek  through  logic  is  revealed  by  physics,  as  guided  by  the  rules  of canonic.  As  Torquatus,  the  Epicurean  spokesman  in  Cicero's   De  finibus (i.63), puts it, 'it is by this science [that is, physics] that the meaning of words,  the  nature  of  discourse,  and  the  relationship  of  consequence  or conflict  can  be  understood'.  Physics  attains  these  insights  by  observing
'the rule that has glided down, as it were, from heaven for the knowledge of all things'. The 'rule' is Epicurus' canon, understood as either his book or the standards it proposes. 
Although we lack Epicurus' book  Canon, there is ample evidence for his epistemology. His  Letter to Herodotus, a summary of his physics, includes a summary of his canonic. We also have a brief survey of the  Canon  itself by Diogenes Laertius. In addition, there are numerous ancient discussions of various  aspects  of  Epicurean  canonic.  They  consist  of  both  attacks  and defences. Among the latter, the most important are Lucretius' explanation of sense perception in his poem  On the Nature of Things, Philodemus'
 On Signs, and Sextus Empiricus' account of Epicurus' criterion of truth. 
The   Letter  to  Herodotus  shows  how  canonic  is  related  to  physics. 
Epicurus presents his canonic in two stages: he prefaces his summary of his physics with a brief outline of his two rules of investigation ( Ep.  Hdt. 
37-8); then he explains these rules in the course of outlining his physical system. The main part of this explanation consists in showing how the senses  serve  as  a  means  of  determining  the  truth  ( Ep. Hdt.  48-53). 
Epicurus also adds explanations about concepts ( Ep. Hdt. 72) and about the  formation  of  language  ( Ep. Hdt.  75-6).  Torquatus  refers  to  this sequence of preliminary rules and subsequent explanation when he says that 'unless the nature of things is seen, we will not be able to defend in any way the judgements of the senses' (Cic.  Fin. i.64). 
Epicurus' initial statement of his rules is as follows:
First, Herodotus, it is necessary to have grasped what is subordinate to our utterances, so that we may have the means to judge what is believed or sought or perplexing by referring to [what is subordinate to our utterances], and so that we will not leave everything unjudged as we go on proving to infinity, or have empty utterances. For it is necessary that the first thought in accordance with each utterance be seen and not require proof, if we are to have a referent for what is sought or perplexing and believed. 
Next, it is necessary to observe everything in accordance with the perceptions (αι0σθη!σει) and simply the present applications (ε0πιβολα!) of the mind or any of the criteria (κριτη!ρια), and similarly [in accordance Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
c a n o n i c
263
with]  the  existing  feelings  (πα!θη),  so  that  we  may  have  signs (σηµειωσο!µεθα) for both what is waiting (προσµε!νον) and what is nonevident (α3δηλον). ( Ep. Hdt. 37-8)2
This preamble is followed by the announcement: 'After making these distinctions, it is now time to consider what is nonevident.' Then Epicurus begins a sequence of deductions about the universe. 
In the first place, Epicurus requires thoughts associated with the words that we utter. These initial thoughts, for which Epicurus coined the term προλη!ψει,  'preconceptions',  do  not  require  proof.  Second,  Epicurus requires  observations  to  serve  as  signs  of  what  is  not  observed.  These observations are of two kinds: perceptions, and feelings. 
By following the two rules of inquiry, the investigator arrives at truths about what cannot be observed. This intellectual journey is at the same time a process of discovery and a method of proof. To be sure, there is a psychological process by which an investigator tries out ideas gathered from a variety of sources. But the investigator does not properly make a discovery until he proves the idea by following the rules of inquiry. There is no doubt that Epicurus' physics includes claims (beginning with 'nothing comes to be from non-being',  Ep. Hdt. 38) that he derived from the Eleatics and other philosophers. But this makes no di◊erence to Epicurus'
empiricism. If Epicurus o◊ers an alternative, empirical argument in support of these claims, their provenance is irrelevant. What matters is that they should rest on empirical evidence, not that they should have been prompted by it. 
Epicurus'  initial  remarks,  as  we  have  them,  are  very  condensed  and their interpretation is controversial. We will return to each main point in what follows. But it can be seen at first glance that Epicurus sets out the three 'criteria' that later authors attribute to him: preconceptions, perceptions, and feelings. Epicurus also refers to what later authors attribute to him as a fourth 'criterion', the so-called 'presentational applications of the  mind'.3 Whereas  Epicurus  himself  seems  to  reserve  the  term κριτη!ριον, 'instrument of judgement', for the five senses and the mind 2 πρω4τον µε'ν ου:ν τα' υ/ποτεταγµε!να τοι4 φθο!γγοι, ω: 'Ηρο!δοτε, δει4 ει0ληφε!ναι, ο1πω
α5ν  τα' δοξαζο!µενα  η5 ζητου!µενα  η5 α0πορου!µενα  ε3χωµεν  ει0  ταυ4τα  α0ναγαγο!ντε
ε0πικρι!νειν,  και' µη' α3κριτα  πα!ντα  η/µι4ν  $: ει0  α3πειρον  α0ποδεικνυ!ουσιν  η2 κενου' 
φθο!γγου ε3χωµεν. α0να!γκη γα'ρ το' πρω4τον ε0ννο!ηµα καθ' ε3καστον φθο!γγον βλε!πεσθαι και' µηθε'ν α0ποδει!ξεω προσδει4σθαι, ει3περ ε1ξοµεν το' ζητου!µενον η5 α0πορου!µενον
και' δοξαζο!µενον ε0φ' ο2 α0να!ξοµεν. ει:τα κατα' τα' αι0σθη!σει δει4 πα!ντα τηρει4ν και' α/πλω4
τα' παρου!σα ε0πιβολα' ει3τε διανοι!α ει3θ' ο1του δη!ποτε τω4ν κριτηρι!ων, ο/µοι!ω δε' 
κατα' τα' υ/πα!ρχοντα πα!θη, ο1πω α5ν και' το' προσµε!νον και' το' α3δηλον ε3χωµεν οι9
σηµειωσο!µεθα. On the text see Asmis 1984, 83 n. 1, and Long and Sedley 1987, vol. ii, 92. 
3 D.L. x.31; cf. Cic.  Acad. ii.142. As Diogenes points out, Epicurus himself groups the presentational application of the mind with perceptions and feelings in  KD  24. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
264
e p i c u r e a n   e p i s t e m o l o g y
acting as a sense, later authors use the term to designate the three (or four) types of awareness.4
In his statement of the rules, Epicurus moves from language to preconceptions, then to observations. This order di◊ers from the arrangement found  in  Diogenes'  summary,  which  deals  first  with  perceptions,  then preconceptions,  then  feelings.  Since  preconceptions  are  built  up  from perceptions,  it  is  reasonable  to  explain  the  latter  before  the  former. 
Diogenes' order may well have been the order that Epicurus used in his Canon. The present chapter o◊ers a variation on Diogenes' order: it will deal first with perceptions and feelings, then preconceptions. 
ii Perceptions
The proliferation of technical vocabulary in Hellenistic philosophy can be extremely confusing. The vocabulary of sense perception is particularly treacherous.  A  key  problem  is:  what  is  an  'object  of  perception', αι0σθητο!ν? Further, what is αι3σθησι ('sense perception', 'perception'), φαντασι!α ('presentation' or 'impression'), and the meaning of 'true' as added to either of these terms? Amid the plethora of terms, two demand special attention: ε0πιβολη! ('application', 'act of attending') and ε0να!ργεια
('evidence'). This pair of terms is especially prominent in Epicurean epistemology and may be said to characterize it. 'Επιβολη! is not found as a technical epistemological term before Epicurus; and ε0να!ργεια receives a new sense and importance. 
The basic problemis this: can sense perception show what exists in the external world? Epicurus identifies all acts of perception as 'present' acts of sensory attention. What makes these acts a means of measuring the truth? 
Epicurus  explains  'applications',  together  with  ε0να!ργεια and κριτη!ριον, in the central epistemological section of the  Letter to Herodotus (49-53). By the time he comes to this section, Epicurus has already established that everything in the universe is atoms and void. He now explains sensory perception. Turning first to sight and thought, he claims that very fine configurations (τυ!ποι) of atoms, called 'images' (ει3δωλα), are continually  detached  from  the  surface  of  external  solids,  having  similar  shape and colour to the solid. These images form a stream that extends from the solid to the sense organ while preserving a 'sympathy' with the pulsation of atoms deep within the solid. When this stream enters the eyes or the mind, it produces a 'presentation' (φαντασι!α). 
The mind obtains visual impressions in the same way as the sense of 4 But see Striker 1974, 59-61, and 1990, 144. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
p e r c e p t i o n s
265
sight. It has 'perceptions', therefore, just like any of the sense organs, and acts  as  a  sensory  criterion,  just  like  the  five  senses.  Its  sensory  activity includes  dreams,  memories,  hallucinations,  and  so  on.  Elsewhere,  it  is called 'presentational' by contrast with the non-sensory, rational activity of the mind. In conformity with this unusual doctrine, Epicurus classifies the mind's sensory acts as a subdivision of 'perceptions' in the  Letter to Herodotus. His followers later made a concession to standard philosophical terminology by classifying mental perceptions as a separate category, coordinate  with  the  perceptions  of  the  five  senses.  But  they  did  not thereby alter Epicurus' theory. 
Immediately after arguing that we see an external solid by means of a continuity between the presentation and the solid, Epicurus summarizes his theory of truth and falsehood:
And  whatever  presentation  we  take  hold  of  by  an  application (ε0πιβλητικω4) of the mind or the senses, whether of shape or of concomitants, this is the shape of the solid, coming to be in accordance with successive compacting or a remnant of the image. 
But falsehood and error always lie in what it is additionally believed will be witnessed or not counterwitnessed and then is not witnessed <or is counterwitnessed>.  For  appearances  that  are  obtained  as  a  likeness  or that happen in sleep or by some other applications of the mind or of the remaining  criteria  would  never  have  a  similarity  with  things  that  are called 'existent' and 'true' if they were not also things that we encounter. 
Error would not exist if we did not also take within ourselves some other motion that is attached, but has a distinction. In respect to this motion, if there is no witnessing or counterwitnessing, falsehood comes to be; if there is witnessing or no counterwitnessing, truth comes to be. 
It is necessary to hold on tight to this belief, in order that the criteria that judge in accordance with evidence may not be eliminated, and that error, by being similarly upheld, may not confuse everything. ( Ep.  Hdt. 50-2)5
5  Ep.  Hdt. 50-2: και' η2ν α2ν λα!βωµεν φαντασι!αν ε0πιβλητικω4 τ$4 διανοι!' η5 τοι4 αι0σθητ-ηροι ει3τε µορφη4 ει3τε συµβεβηκο!των, µορφη! ε0στιν αυ/τη' του4 στερεµνι!ου, γινοµε!νη
κατα' το' ε/ξη4  πυκνω4µα  η5 ε0γκατα!λειµµα  του4 ει0δω!λου.  το' δε' ψευ4δο  και' το' 
διηµαρτηµε!νον  ε0ν  τ4 προσδοξαζοµε!ν  α0ει! ε0στιν  ε0πιµαρτυρη!σεσθαι  η5 µη' α0ντι-µαρτυρηθη!σεσθαι,  ει:τ' ου0κ  ε0πιµαρτυρουµε!νου <η5 α0ντιµαρτυρουµε!νου>.  η1 τε  γα'ρ
ο/µοιο!τη τω4ν φαντασµω4ν οι/ονει' ε0ν ει0κο!νι λαµβανοµε!νων η5 καθ' υ1πνου γινοµε!νων η5
κατ' α3λλα  τινα'  ε0πιβολα'  τη4  διανοι!α  η5 τω4ν  λοιπω4ν  κριτηρι!ων  ου0κ  α3ν  ποτε
υ/πη4ρχε τοι4 ου:σι! τε και' α0ληθε!σι προσαγορευοµε!νοι, ει0 µη' η:ν τινα και' ταυ4τα προ' α2
βα!λλοµεν. το' δε' διηµαρτηµε!νον ου0κ α5ν υ/πη4ρχεν, ει0 µη' ε0λαµβα!νοµεν και' α3λλην τινα' 
κι!νησιν ε0ν η/µι4ν αυ0τοι4 συνηµµε!νην µε'ν δια!ληψιν δε' ε3χουσαν. κατα' δε' ταυ!την, ε0α'ν µε'ν
µη' ε0πιµαρτυρηθ$4 η5 α0ντιµαρτυρηθ$4, το' ψευ4δο γι!νεται. ε0α'ν δε' ε0πιµαρτυρηθ$4 η5 µη' 
α0ντιµαρτυρηθ$4, το' α0ληθε'. και' ταυ!την ου:ν σφο!δρα γε δει4 τη'ν δο!ξαν κατε!χειν, ι1να
µη!τε τα' κριτη!ρια α0ναιρη4ται τα' κατα' τα' ε0ναργει!α µη!τε το' διηµαρτηµε!νον ο/µοι!ω
βεβαιου!µενον πα!ντα συνταρα!ττ$. For the text, see further Asmis 1984, 142 n.1. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
266
e p i c u r e a n   e p i s t e m o l o g y
Epicurus distinguishes between two kinds of 'taking': we take hold of a presentation by an 'application' of the sensory organ; and we take hold of another,  inner  kind  of  motion,  which  is  linked  to  the  first  but  distinct from  it.  The  first  type  of  motion  is  a  'present'  application  of  a  sensory organ ( Ep. Hdt. 38). The second adds a belief to the presentation, and this belief may be true or false. There is no falsehood or error, on the other hand, in the first kind of 'taking'. 
Epicurus divides the first kind of taking into two kinds: those by which we get hold of dream images or copies (such as a picture) or other resemblances to what is 'called existent and true'; and those by which we get hold of what is 'called existent and true'. Epicurus' language is circumspect  and  strained.  While  distinguishing  between  simulations  (such  as dreams) and things called 'existent and true', he excludes falsehood from the former on the ground that the simulations would not be similar unless they were also certain things 'that we encounter'.6
Whenever  we  have  a  perception,  therefore,  we  need  to  distinguish between  two  kinds  of  activity:  the  perception  itself,  which  is  a  present application to something encountered from outside; and the addition of a belief, which is a movement from inside ourselves. This distinction provides a foundation for knowledge. Perceptions in themselves are uncontaminated by any belief: they are 'raw' acts of cognition, presenting the world to us without any interpretation. Because they are free of belief, they serve as the means of judging the truth or falsehood of beliefs. They are the ultimate basis of judgement; for there is no further criterion by which  the  perceptions  themselves  can  be  judged.  As  the  later  sources explain, one perception cannot judge another, since all have equal validity; nor can one sense judge another, since each has a di◊erent object; nor can reason judge perception, since it is wholly dependent on perception.7
Epicurus warns that one must not throw out any perception: otherwise one will throw out every instrument of judgement ( KD  24). 
The claim that there is no falsehood in perception is boldly counterintuitive. Surely we have false perceptions, and these are sometimes so similar to true perceptions as to be indistinguishable from them? Socrates had addressed  this  objection  in  Plato's   Theaetetus (157e-158e).  Against  the claim that dreams and other allegedly 'false perceptions' can be so similar to  allegedly  true  perceptions  as  to  be  indistinguishable  from  them,  he responds,  on  behalf  of  the  thesis  that  perception  is  knowledge,  that  all perceptions  are  unique  experiences,  occurring  to  di◊erent  subjects  at 6 προ' α2 βα!λλοµεν: this is the reading of one MS., viz. f. 
7 D.L. x.32 and Lucr. iv.482-98. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
p e r c e p t i o n s
267
di◊erent times. There is no conflict among them; for all 'are' equally and are equally 'true'. Epicurus holds likewise that a perception is a present interaction between a percipient subject and a perceived object. The very similarity between allegedly true and false perceptions provides the basis of his argument: the similarity shows that there is in each case something that we 'encounter'. These objects of encounter are without falsehood. 
Epicurus  does  not  actually  say  in  his  extant  writings  what  the  later sources say, namely that 'all presentations', or 'all (sense) perceptions', or
'all objects of perception' are 'true', and that all objects of perception are
'existent' or 'real'.8 But the later versions purport to capture Epicurus'
meaning; and indeed there is no substantive di◊erence. 
Thus Demetrius of Laconia explains that 'we call the perceptions true by reference to the objects of perception'.9 According to Sextus ( M  viii.9), Epicurus 'said that all objects of perception are true and existent (α0ληθη4
και' ο3ντα), for there is no di◊erence between saying that something is true and saying it is real (υ/πα!ρχον)'. Epicurus' followers also argued that the presented object (το' φανταστο!ν) is in every case just as it appears, that is, is something 'real'. As they put it, all presentations are not only from, but also  in  accordance  with,  the  presented  object  ( M  vii.203-10).  This Epicurean  argument  consists  of  an  analogy  between  the  'primary  feelings',  pleasure  and  pain,  and  perceptions.  Just  as  pleasure  and  pain  are necessarily  from  and  in  accordance  with  something  real  (for  example, pleasure is from and in accordance with something pleasant), so every perception  necessarily  corresponds  to  its  producer,  which  'is'  just  as  it appears. 
But granted that Epicurus and his followers are agreed on the reality of whatever is perceived, what sort of reality does this object of perception have?10 In  Ep. Hdt. 50 Epicurus explains the object of perception, exemplified by the shape of a solid, as an e◊ect produced by incoming atoms: at the  causal  level,  the  presentation  or  presented  object  corresponds  to atoms interacting with each other. The truth of a presentation, therefore, may  be  explained  in  two  di◊erent  ways,  phenomenally  and  causally:  a presentation is true insofar as it presents something that is in reality just as  it  appears;  and  a  presentation  is  true  insofar  as  it  corresponds  to  an impact of atoms on the sense organ. The second formulation provides the 8 See frs. 247-54 Usener. 
9  PHerc.  1012, col. 72.3-6 Puglia 1988. 
10 A much disputed question: while most interpreters take the truth of a perception to consist in some sort of correspondence between the presentation and its atomic stimuli (so Furley 1971, 616,  C.  Taylor  1980,  119-22,  Everson  1990b,  173-4),  Rist  1972,  19-20,  proposes  that  what makes a presentation true is that it is a real event, and Striker 1977, 134-5, 142, suggests that what is true is a proposition expressing the content of a sense impression. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
268
e p i c u r e a n   e p i s t e m o l o g y
physical explanation for the first. For it identifies the object of perception as the e◊ect of an arrangement of atoms coming from outside. 
Epicurus' followers rely on the physical explanation when they claim that a perception is true because it is 'moved' by something, as opposed to moving itself. Diogenes Laertius (x.32) applies this explanation to allegedly  illusory  appearances:  'The  appearances  (φαντα!σµατα) of madmen and dreams are true, for they move [the sense or mind], and what does not exist  does  not  move  anything'.  More  precisely,  a  perception  is  true because it is not moved by itself and, when moved by something else, cannot add or take away anything (S.E.  M  viii.9). Hence it is 'irrational' and without memory. Sextus ( M  viii.63) identifies the mover as images which
'underlie'. Alleged misperceptions, such as Orestes' vision of the Furies, are  true  because  they  are  moved  by  underlying  images.  That  there  are external solid Furies is a false inference added by the mind. Because a perception is no more than a response to an external stimulus, it is free of any interpretative contamination. 
Clearly, this notion of perceptual truth does not agree with our ordinary notion. Ordinarily, a perception is considered true if it corresponds to  an  independently  existing  external  object,  not  to  an  immediately impinging stimulus. Epicurus seems to evade the problem by redefining perceptual truth. This seems all the more reprehensible as Epicurus proposes to test all answers by reference to ordinary concepts. His followers, moreover, certainly give the impression that they deal with external reality (as ordinarily understood) when they advance the claim that all perceptions are true. 
Then let us look more closely at how Epicurus explains the di◊erence between true and false perceptions in the ordinary sense. It has generally been supposed that the first sentence of  Ep. Hdt. 50 spells out the conditions of a 'true' (in the ordinary sense) or 'reliable' perception. Epicurus claims that the shape of the solid is produced in one of two ways: by 'successive compacting', or by a 'remnant of the image' ( Ep. Hdt. 50). It has been held that these two methods guarantee a perception that is faithful to the external solid.11 However, it is clear that all visual presentations, whether  true  or  false  (in  the  ordinary  sense),  are  formed  by  these  two methods. 
The first way consists in the successive merging of images in the sense organ.  Atoms  that  have  entered  are  continually  reinforced  by  new arrangements  of  atoms  arriving  in  imperceptibly  small  units  of  time. 
11 So Furley 1971, 607-11; cf. 1967, 208. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
p e r c e p t i o n s
269
The successive arrival of parts of images in the eye results in a composite image which presents a whole.12 As Lucretius explains, we do not see the  individual   images  that  stream  from  an  external  thing.  Instead,  we see the  'thing  itself '  as  a  result  of  the  merging  of  images  in  the  sense organ:
In this one must not wonder in the least bit why, when the images that strike the eyes cannot be seen singly, things themselves ( res ipsae) are discerned. For also when the wind lashes us little by little and bitter cold flows, we are not in the habit of perceiving each individual particle of wind and its cold, but rather we perceive the wind as a whole, and we note blows happening on our body just as if some object were lashing it and providing a perception of its own external body. Moreover, when we strike  the  stone  itself  ( ipsum)  with  the  finger,  we  touch  the  outermost colour  of  the  rock  at  the  very  surface,  yet  we  do  not  perceive  this  by touch but instead we perceive the hardness itself ( ipsam) deep within the rock. (Lucr. iv.256-68)
Lucretius draws an analogy between the sense of touch and the sense of sight. When we feel a cold wind blowing, we do not perceive the successively arriving particles of wind, but the wind as a whole. When we touch a  rock,  we  do  not  perceive  the  fine  surface  layer  with  which  our  finger makes  contact,  but  rather  the  hardness  deep  within  the  rock. 
Analogously,  what  we  see  is  not  individual  images,  but  'things  themselves',  res ipsae. The images are simply the means by which we obtain a perceptual grasp of the solid from which they flow. 
According to Epicurus ( Ep. Hdt. 48), the images that stream from a solid preserve 'for a long time' the arrangement they had on the surface of the solid; but their arrangement may also be disturbed. Similarly, in the case of hearing ( Ep. Hdt. 52-3), the streamof atoms fromthe external source produces a perception of the source 'for the most part'; but it may also show only what is 'external' to the source.13 In general, whenever the sensory organ is at a distance fromthe source of the perception, there is a perceptual streamextending fromthe source to the sense organ. If no disturbance occurs, the successive compacting of e◊luences permits a perception of the source itself. In this case, the source reaches through the perceptual streamright to the sensory organ, so that there 12 In addition to Lucretius, see Aug.  Ep. 118.30 and Alex.  de Sens.  56-63 and  de An. Mant. 134-6
(discussed by Asmis 1984, 128-37). The merging of ει3δωλα explains how we can see objects larger than the surface of the pupil: we do not see an object as the result of a single  ει3δωλον
shrinking between the object and ourselves, but as the result of a stream of ει3δωλα depositing eidolic parts in the eye. 
13 See also S.E.  M  vii.207-9; Lucr. iv.353-63. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
270
e p i c u r e a n   e p i s t e m o l o g y
is an immediate perceptual contact with the source itself. Otherwise, we have a perception only of what is outside the source. But this makes no di◊erence to the veracity of the perception: whether or not the perceptual streamhas become disturbed, we encounter an object that is real. 
There is a further complication. Images do not always come from an external source, but may be formed spontaneously in midair, like clouds (Lucr. iv.129-42). Even when they come from an external source, moreover, the images that cause mental visions are prone to combine with each other  in  midair  because  they  are  especially  fine  (Lucr.  iv.722-48).  For example, a horse image may combine in midair with a man image to produce  the  mental  vision  of  a  centaur.14 Although  our  sources  mention composite streams only with reference to mental images, there is no reason why such streams should not also occur in sight, hearing and smell. In all  cases,  there  appear  to  be  three  possibilities:  a  stream  may  form  an undisturbed continuum between the percipient and an external source; a stream from an external source may be disturbed; and a stream may form spontaneously (i.e. combine) in midair. 
The second way in which the perceived shape of a solid is said to be produced is by a 'remnant of the image' ( Ep. Hdt. 50). Since atoms may remain in the sense organ for a time after they have entered, it is reasonable to suppose that an image that has been constituted in the sight or mind by successive compacting may linger so as to produce a kind of after-image. 
This after-image corresponds to what remains of the image. The remnant does not stay long enough to produce dreams and memories, for these are produced by newly arriving images.15
In the case of touch and taste, there is no external stream intervening between the sensory organ and the source. Instead, there is an immediate contact between percipient and source. Yet here too we ordinarily draw a distinction between true and false perception. Epicurus explains this distinction as well. For apart from external arrangement, there is an internal factor that determines the kind of perception; and it applies to all senses. 
This is the condition of the sensory organ. Even if there is no disturbance in the external stream, a derangement of the sensory organ may alter the perception. 
14 Lucretius points out that a single mental ει3δωλον, even though extremely fine, is able to move the mind; for the mind too is extremely fine (iv.746-8). This does not imply, as is generally supposed, that a mental presentation is due to a single ει3δωλον entering the mind. Here too the image is due to an eidolic stream, as Lucretius' explanation of moving dream images indicates (iv.794-806). 
15 See Asmis 1984, 137-9. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
p e r c e p t i o n s
271
Basically, a sense organ takes in precisely what is commensurate with it (συ!µµετρον,  Ep. Hdt. 53, cf. 50). Its condition, therefore, determines what parts  of  the  perceptual  stream  it  encounters.16 As  a  result,  perceptions vary from one type of animal to another, from one individual to another, and from one perception to another. If the organ of taste is in a healthy condition, for example, honey tastes sweet. But if it is diseased, the taste is bitter. In the former case, atoms productive of sweet taste interact with the sense organ; in the latter, atoms that produce a bitter taste are admitted instead (Lucr. iv.658-72). When we enter a dark room, we may not be able to make out colours at first, although we can do so after a little while (Plu.  Col.  1110c-d). The reason lies in the adjustment of the sense organ to the incoming atoms. 
In receiving particles from outside, moreover, the sensory organ does not  simply  submit  passively  to  the  impacts.  It  engages  in  an  active response called 'application' (ε0πιβολη!). Epicurus refers to this contribution along with 'successive compacting' and 'remaining'; and it is essential  to  the  formation  of  any  presentation.  How  it  works  can  best  be gauged from Lucretius' defence of Epicurus' theory of mind. 
The dependence of the mind on newly arriving images is a peculiarity of Epicurean psychology that provoked much criticism in antiquity. It conflicts with the well-entrenched position that, unlike the five senses, the mind has objects of its own, which it can call up whenever it likes, regardless of what happens to it from outside. Lucretius defends the Epicurean view by arguing that the mind, like any other sense organ, has an active role  in  perception.  This  sensory  activity  is  not  a  self-movement,  as Diogenes Laertius (x.31) makes clear, but an act of responding to incoming  atoms.  By  an  act  of  application,  etymologically  an  'onslaught'  or
'thrust upon' an object, the sensory organ goes to meet what is presented to it. 
Lucretius asks (iv.779-880): how can the mind straight away think of anything it likes? The answer is twofold. On the one hand, there is a vast number  of  images  impinging  upon  the  mind  at  any  single  perceptible time. On the other hand, the mind cannot see anything clearly unless it
'strains' to see it; it must 'have prepared itself ' for what it sees. To obtain a sequence of thought, it 'prepares itself further and hopes that it will see what  follows  each  thing,  with  the  result  that  it  happens'  (iv.802-6). 
Lucretius compares the mental act of preparation to the focussing of eyes on tiny objects. Then he extends this analogy to perception in general: 16 Lucr. iv.668-70, 706-21; Plu.  Col.  1109c-1110d. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
272
e p i c u r e a n   e p i s t e m o l o g y
even when things are openly perceptible, if one does not pay attention, everything  is  'as  though  separated  by  all  time  and  far  removed'
(iv.812-13). 
Sensory  application,  then,  is  the  act  of  attention  by  which  the  sense organs (including the mind) obtain a clear awareness. This activity need not be deliberate.17 What makes it an active response rather than passive submission is that the organ is in a state of attentiveness toward what is presented  to  it.  Though  determined  by  preceding  atomic  movements, this state in turn determines the e◊ect of the incoming streams. Without it, there is only the vaguest awareness: nothing is clear. In other words, nothing is 'evident' (ε0ναργε!). This vague awareness is not su√cient to constitute a presentation.18
All presentations are evident; and all equally show what is true.19 This evidence is, in Sextus' words ( M  vii.216), the 'base and foundation' of all cognition. What makes a sense organ an organ of judgement, a 'criterion', is that by making an application it always gets hold of what is 'evident'. 
Epicurus draws this correlation between the sense organs and evidence when he warns us not to eliminate 'the criteria that judge in accordance with evidence' ( Ep. Hdt. 52) and urges us to pay attention to 'all the evidence that is present in accordance with each of the criteria' ( Ep. Hdt. 82). 
In  sum,  two  factors  are  necessary  for  the  production  of  any  sense perception: a stream of atoms that impinges on the sensory organ; and a sensory organ that responds actively to this stream. In every act of perception, a presentation or 'evidence' is produced by an act of attention of the sensory organ to incoming arrangements of atoms. What is presented -
the object of perception - is not an arrangement of atoms, but an e◊ect produced by the atoms. These e◊ects di◊er for each sense. In the case of sight, it is colour, along with the shape and size of colour at a remove from us. In hearing, it is sound. The sense of taste perceives flavours; the sense of smell perceives odours; and touch perceives body, as well as the contiguous shape, size, and so on, of body.20
We do not perceive an image, or any arrangement of atoms; nor do we perceive some sort of inner mental object. We perceive in every case some-17 As shown by Furley 1967, 208; cf. 1971, 611. But neither is ε0πιβολη! an entirely passive process, as Furley proposes. 
18 As Sextus observes ( M  vii.203), Epicurus also used the term ε0να!ργεια for presentation. 
19  Pace  e.g. Bailey 1928, 242-3, 254-7. 
20  Ep. Hdt. 49-53; Lucr. iv.489-95. The anonymous (Philodemus?)  PHerc. 19/698 has a detailed (though fragmentary) discussion of these objects of perception; see esp. cols. 17, 18, 22, 25, 26, and fr. 21 Scott. New edition of the papyrus in Monet 1996. For a di◊erent view of the objects of perception, see Sedley 1989b, and Long and Sedley 1987, vol. 1, 84. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
p e r c e p t i o n s
273
thing  projected  outside  ourselves,  as  existing  outside  us.  We  see  a  red square, or hear a shrill cry, or touch a hard body. When Orestes has a vision of a Fury, he does not see an image of a Fury or a mental image; he sees a Fury as a three-dimensional object existing outside of himself. 
We  must  distinguish,  therefore,  between  what  we  ordinarily  call  an object of perception and the object of perception as revealed by physical science. In redefining perceptual truth, Epicurus redefines 'object of perception'.  Whereas  we  ordinarily  take  it  to  be  an  external  object  distinct from us, it is the convergence of an external stream on the sense organ. The organ reads o◊ a part of this stream. If the stream comes from a particular source and the sense organ reads o◊ what is directly 'on' the source, there is a true perception (in the ordinary sense). If the organ reads o◊ a part outside  the  source  or  altogether  detached  from  a  particular  source,  there  is still a truthful object of perception, even though it does not coincide with a particular source. The di◊erence between a true and false perception (in the ordinary sense) comes down to this: does the object of perception, as redefined, coincide with what it presents as its source? If the sense is able to reach, by means of the perceptual stream, the very source it shows, there is what is ordinarily called a true object of perception; otherwise, not. 
Let us now return to Epicurus' sentence on the shape of the solid ( Ep. 
 Hdt. 50). Epicurus mentions both the internal cause of the presentation, the application, and the external cause, an influx of images. Nothing in this  causal  analysis  suggests  that  Epicurus  is  here  singling  out  what  is ordinarily called a 'true' perception; and the indefinite form of the sentence ('whatever presentation we take. . .') suggests rather that he is referring  to  any  visual  presentation  of  an  external  solid  at  all,  whether distorted or not. As Sextus puts it, what is presented is either the colour outside the solid or the colour on the very surface of the solid. Either type of colour shows the shape of the solid. 
But there remains a problem. Epicurus describes the shape of the solid as 'coming to be' in accordance with the impact of images. At the same time, he indicates that there is an external solid that has shape and colour, which may be conveyed to the percipient by means of images. Qualities such as colour and shape, sound, odour, and so on, are not just temporary qualities,  existing  only  at  the  moment  of  perception,  but  more  or  less enduring features of the external world. Epicurus himself divides these qualities into permanent and occasional, and says that the former make up a body's 'own nature' ( Ep. Hdt. 68-9). 
How does this view square with Epicurus' physics? Physical investigation shows that there is no colour, sound, odour, flavour, or bodily texture Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
274







e p i c u r e a n   e p i s t e m o l o g y
independently of perception. There are just atoms, having shape, size, and weight, moving about in various arrangements in the void. What is presented in perception is the e◊ect of an interaction between us and incoming  atoms.  Apart  from  perception,  there  is  no  external  red  sphere:  the coloured  three-dimensional  shape  that  we  see  exists  only  in  perceptual interaction; outside us, there are fine networks of colourless atoms that are densely arranged in the so-called 'solid' source and very thinly distributed in the perceptual stream reaching from the source to the beholder. 
Now  Epicurus  draws  a  distinction  between  'in  relation  to  us'  (προ' 
η/µα4) and 'in itself' (καθ' αυ/το!): 'in relation to us', he writes ( Ep. Pyth. 
91), the size of the sun and other heavenly bodies is just as it appears; 'in itself ' it is larger or a little smaller or the same. Elsewhere, Epicurus contrasts 'in relation to us' with 'the underlying thing in itself '.21 'In relation to us' clearly means 'as we perceive it'. The size of the sun 'in itself ', by contrast,  would  seem  to  be  the  underlying  cause  of  the  perception, namely the size of the distant sun. To take our perceptual stream, with the percipient at one end, the solid sun at the other, and the stream of images in between: from the point of view of the beholder, that is 'in relation to us', the size of the sun is just as it appears; the size of the sun 'in itself ', on the other hand, is the size of the solid sun considered in itself, apart from the beholder. 
One and the same thing, therefore, may be described in two ways: 'in relation to us', it is just as it appears; 'in itself ', it is the same as it appears or di◊erent. 'In itself ' the sun is tiny. It is also brightly coloured and hot. 
Moreover, it is a network of colour-producing and heat-producing atoms. 
Because this atomic source e◊ects certain perceptual qualities - those that are perceived in a perception 'upon' the source - the external source may be said to have these qualities 'in itself '. 
Epicurus thus combines a robust ontology of perceptual objects with his atomic theory. The senses always present what exists in the external world and often (though not always) present a source 'in itself '. Because they always present an immediately underlying external thing, they never lie. They also often present the object that we think (by the addition of a belief ) they present. Hence physical theory not only justifies a trust in all perceptions, but also saves our ordinary beliefs about perception. 
But there is still a problem. Although the senses can display an external solid without distortion, or 'in itself ', they cannot tell whether their dis-21  On nature  xi,  PHerc. 1042, col. vb.6-8 Sedley 1976b, 34, where the contrast between κατα' . . . το' 
υ/πο[κει!]µενον καθ' ε/α[υτο'] and προ' η/µα4 applies to the rising and setting of the sun and moon. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
p e r c e p t i o n s
275
play is without distortion: their judgement is necessarily 'in relation to us'.  In  the  words  of  Lucretius,  the  senses  cannot  know  the  'nature  of things' ( naturam rerum, iv.385). Instead, reason must discover whether the objects  that  appear  to  be  moving  or  stationary,  one  or  many,  same  or di◊erent, distant or close, straight or bent, round or square, and so on, really are so (iv.380-461, 50 0-6). 
We return, therefore, to the question whether there is any way of singling out certain perceptions as reliable witnesses about enduring objects. 
At the conclusion of the  Letter to Herodotus (82), Epicurus pairs the perceptions and feelings again:
One must pay attention to the present feelings and perceptions, to those that are common in accordance with what is common and to those that are  particular  in  accordance  with  what  is  particular,  and  to  all  the  evidence that is present in accordance with each of the criteria of judgement. 
A further distinction among perceptions is that they may be particular to an observer or common to all. This distinction depends on the assumption that there are enduring objects of perception that are the same for all. Does reliance on common perceptions, then, help us to a solid basis of inference? 
We will return to this possibility when we discuss preconceptions. 
*
In his procedural note ( Ep. Hdt. 38), Epicurus joins 'feelings' (πα!θη) to perceptions  as  a  basis  of  inference.  In  his  survey  of  Epicurean  canonic, Diogenes Laertius (x.35) states that there are two feelings, pleasure and pain, by which choice and avoidance are judged. This is in agreement with Epicurus' own claim that pleasure is the starting-point of choice and the measure (κανω!ν) of all good ( Ep. Men.  129). But this does not imply that pleasure  and  pain  are  not  also  a  criterion  of  truth.  For  they  determine action by serving as a measure of what truly is good and bad. In addition, the feelings are signs of what is nonevident in the area of psychology ( Ep. 
 Hdt.  63 and 68). 
Epicurus does not explain feelings separately in the  Letter to Herodotus. 
Their epistemological role can be inferred, however, from what he says about perceptions. The basic di◊erence between these two measures of truth is that feelings are acts of awareness of inner states, whereas perceptions are directed at what is external to us. As a type of canon, the feelings are  not  simply  altered  conditions  of  the  sense  organ;  they  include  an awareness of the condition. Epicurus agreed with others that every act of perception depends on an alteration of the sense organ; and this may be Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
276
e p i c u r e a n   e p i s t e m o l o g y
called a feeling. In addition to being moved, the sense organ may have a feeling of being moved; and this constitutes a criterion of truth. 
At the most general level, this criterion is a feeling of pleasure or pain. 
Subsumed under these feelings is the whole range of bodily sensations, such as feeling sated or hungry or having a pain in the stomach, and the entire range of emotions, such as anger, sadness, or joy. Since feelings are a kind of awareness, they may be subsumed in turn, along with perceptions proper, under the general heading of 'perception', as occurs in the later sources.22 And  just  like  perceptions  in  the  narrow  sense,  the  feelings depend on an 'application' of the sense organ and are correlated with 'evidence'.23
As a criterion of goodness, feelings form the foundation of Epicurean ethics.  In  physics,  the  area  in  which  feelings  are  most  important  is psychology. Epicurus signals this special role by framing his analysis of the soul in the  Letter to Herodotus (63 and 68) with references to both perceptions and feelings. One highly controversial claim supported by reference to feelings is the claim that the mind is situated in the heart. Like the  Stoics  (though  with  a  di◊erent  logical  apparatus),  the  Epicureans sought to determine the location of the mind by the 'evident' fact that the heart is where we feel fear, joy, and other emotions.24 Since the mind is the seat of the emotions, this feeling shows that the mind is located in the heart. 
iii Preconceptions
In addition to perceptions and feelings, the investigator must have preconceptions  (προλη!ψει)  at  the  outset  of  an  inquiry  ( Ep. Hdt.  37-8). 
Preconceptions  correspond  to  the  utterances  used  to  state  a  belief  or problem. They must not require proof; otherwise proof would go on to infinity. Rather, they share with perceptions and feelings the property of being 'evident' and so constitute a third type of measure or canon. 
Since Epicurus says very little about preconceptions, it is best to turn immediately to Diogenes Laertius (x.33):
They  say  that  preconception  is  something  like  apprehension (κατα!ληψι) or correct belief (δο!ξα) or a conception or a general (καθο-λικη!) stored notion, that is, a memory of what has often appeared from outside, for example, 'a human being is this sort of thing'. For as soon as 22 See Cic.  Fin. i.30-31 and ii.36. 
23 They are linked with ε0να!ργεια at  PHerc. 1251 col. 13.8-12; cf. Indelli and Tsouna 1995, 93 and 171-3. 
24 Lucr. iii.141-2; Demetrius of Laconia,  PHerc. 1012, cols. 42-7 Puglia 1988. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
p r e c o n c e p t i o n s
277
'human being' is spoken, an outline of a human being is thought of in accordance  with  the  preconception,  as  a  result  of  antecedent  perceptions. What is first subordinate to every word, therefore, is evident. 
And we would not have sought what we seek if we had not previously come  to  know  it,  for  example:  is  the  thing  standing  in  the  distance  a horse or a cow? For it is necessary to have come to know at some time by preconception the shape of a horse and cow. Nor would we have named anything unless we had previously learned its form by preconception. 
Diogenes adds that we would not seek anything unless we had first learnt what  it  is;  nor  would  we  name  anything  unless  we  had  first  acquired  a preconception  of  it.25 In  conclusion,  he  reiterates  that  preconceptions are 'evident'. As attested elsewhere, a preconception is an act of 'application'.26 Like sensory self-evidence, conceptual self-evidence consists in a
'thrust upon' something real. 
In this account, which is clearly influenced by later debates with non-Epicureans, two things stand out: preconceptions are derived from sense perception;27 and  their  function  is  to  serve  as  points  of  reference  for inquiry. Epicurus states the second point explicitly in his procedural note. 
The first is the more problematic: how soundly are Epicurus' preconceptions  based  on  sense  perception?  How  can  they  exclude  an  element  of interpretation added to sensory information? 
Diogenes o◊ers alternative descriptions of preconception in response to positions taken by various other philosophers.28 His basic explanation is that it is a 'memory of what has often appeared from outside'. The appearances from outside are sensory appearances 'preceding' the formation of the conception. Their repeated occurrence results in a 'memory' of a type of thing or of an individual item. For just as we associate the outline of a human being with the words 'human being', so we associate an outline of Socrates, for example, with the word 'Socrates'. We use this notion whenever we form any sort of belief about Socrates. In the case of individual human  beings  many  perceptions  result  in  a  notion  of  a  certain  kind  of shape and behaviour; and this is a 'stored, general notion' no less than the more general notion of 'human being'. Indeed, Epicurean preconceptions range in complexity from notions of simple sensory qualities, such as 'red', 25 The function of preconceptions is to answer a problem put by Plato in the  Meno: how can we inquire  into  anything  without  previously  knowing  it?  Epicurus'  solution  is  that  we  have notions derived from sense perception. Having learned by observation what a horse and a cow are, we can ask the question: is the indistinct shape seen in the distance a horse or a cow? (see above, pp. 195-6). 
26 Clemens Alex.  Strom. ii.4. 
27 See Asmis 1984, 63-80; cf. Long and Sedley 1987, vol. i, 89. 
28 For di√culties in Diogenes' account, see Glidden 1985, 180-6. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
278
e p i c u r e a n   e p i s t e m o l o g y
'bitter',  'hot',  to  notions  that  combine  a  number  of  sensory  properties, such as 'Socrates', 'human being', 'god', and 'just' (said to be 'what is communally advantageous',  KD  36). 
By attending to sensory appearances, the mind comes to pick out certain  features  as  constituting  a  type.  This  conceptual  act  poses  a  special problem within Epicureanism: is it an interpretation added by the mind to sensory impressions? If so, it is not simply the product of outside influences and consequently requires verification by the senses. It appears that a preconception is a special kind of belief formed out of an accumulation of sensory impressions. Repeated in the mind, sensory impressions turn into a conception, which is continually reinforced and confirmed by further sensory impressions. 
The self-evidence of preconceptions, then, is much more complex than that of individual sensory impressions. Another complexity concerns the existence  of  what  is  conceived.  Does  the  object  conceived  exist  in  the peculiar Epicurean sense in which all objects of perception exist, or does it have existence 'in itself '? 
The preconception about which we have most information and which therefore promises to throw most light on this question is the notion of god. It was highly controversial in antiquity and is still much debated.29
In Epicurus' words ( Ep. Men.  123), 'the common notion of god outlines'
that god is an 'indestructible, blessed living being', and 'the gods exist, for the knowledge of them is evident'. Cicero ( ND  i.43-4) shows that 'common' means 'common to all people', and he cites this consensus as proof of the existence of gods:
.  .  .  [Epicurus]  saw  that  there  are  gods,  because  nature  herself  had impressed a notion of them in the minds of all. For what nation or race of men is there that does not have a certain preconception of the gods without any teaching? . . . 
Since [this] belief has not been established by some convention or custom or law and there abides a firm agreement among everyone, it must be  understood  that  there  are  gods.  For  we  have  implanted,  or  rather inborn, notions of them; what the nature of all is agreed on must be true; therefore it must be admitted that there are gods. 
Cicero draws a distinction between the natural formation of the concept and the imposition of a belief by some form of teaching, such as custom or law. The thought that there are gods is naturally implanted in everyone; it 29 For a detailed discussion, see below, p. 455. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
p r e c o n c e p t i o n s
279
follows that there are gods. In addition, we all naturally think of the gods as 'blessed and immortal' (i.44):
For the same nature that gave us an outline of the gods has engraved in our minds that we consider them everlasting and blessed. (i.45) On the basis of universal natural agreement, Cicero establishes two basic claims about the gods: they exist, and they are immortal and happy. 
While this account is compatible with Epicurus' views, it has been carefully adjusted to fit a conceptual framework that is shared by other philosophers. These adjustments are not without problems. Thus what makes an Epicurean preconception natural is that it has been imposed on human minds  by  the  external  environment,  whereas  Stoic  preconceptions,  for example,  are  rooted  in  human  nature.  The  Epicurean  preconception  of god is produced, like any other, by repeated sensory presentations. It is the result of waking and dreaming visions of the gods, which are caused by images streaming into our minds (Lucr.v.1169-71). While Epicurean preconceptions may be called ε3µφυτοι ('in one's nature', a term translated by Cicero as  innatas, i.44), as Stoic preconceptions were called, the term can mislead the reader into taking it to imply an origin entirely within the human being or, worse, to mean 'innate'. Epicurean preconceptions are naturally  implanted  from  outside;  and  this  is  what  distinguishes  them from customs, conventions, and laws, which are taught. 
Nothing in the Epicurean account of preconceptions suggests that all preconceptions are held universally. Such a requirement would exclude preconceptions not only of individuals such as Socrates, but also of elephants, mangoes, oceans, islands, and so on. Do only common preconceptions, then, guarantee existence? All preconceptions, as Diogenes Laertius says, are 'evident'; and Epicurus appeals to 'evident' knowledge as proof of the existence of the gods. In the case of perceptions, 'evidence' guarantees a certain kind of existence, that which is 'relative to us'. Do preconceptions  likewise  show  only  existence  that  is  'relative  to  us'?  Certainly preconceptions of centaurs and other fictional entities - if there are any such preconceptions - do not show objective existence. We return to the question: do common preconceptions, then, show objective existence? 
There  is  little  doubt  that  Cicero's  Epicurean  spokesman,  Velleius, takes the gods to be real creatures and not just mental constructs. This is how  the  Academic  critic,  Cotta,  understands  his  claim  (i.62-4).  Is Velleius'  appeal  to  universal  agreement,  then,  simply  a  premiss  taken from his opponents, which he does not endorse himself ? This is unlikely, since he attributes the argument to Epicurus. Indeed Epicurus appeals to Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
280
e p i c u r e a n   e p i s t e m o l o g y
the  universality  of  the  preconception  in  his  own  brief  discussion.  Did Epicurus, then, propose common agreement, when naturally implanted, as a guarantee of objective existence? We saw earlier that Epicurus distinguishes between common and individual perceptions and feelings in the Letter to Herodotus (82). Earlier in the  Letter, Epicurus cites the 'common'
perception of bodies as evidence that there are bodies.30 He also appeals to the common feeling (common not just to humans, but to all animals) of  the  pleasant  as  good  as  evidence  that  pleasure  is  the  supreme  good (Cic.  Fin.  i.30).  Is  universal  experience,  then,  a  guarantee  of  objective existence both for perceptions and for preconceptions? 
If this were the case, one would surely expect some mention of this criterion  in  the  later  discussions  on  Epicurean  perception.  As  it  is,  the Epicurean  position  is  distinguished  from  it.  Sextus  points  out  that whereas the sceptical followers of Aenesidemus accept common (though not individual) sensory appearances as true, the Epicureans accept all sensory appearances as true ( M  viii.8-9). Neither Sextus nor any other source mentions  that  Epicurus  singled  out  common  perceptions  as  showing objective existence. Indeed, how could such an assumption fit Epicurean epistemology? It is plausible, for example, that everyone sees the sun as tiny. But Epicurus does not use this as proof that the sun is tiny 'in itself '; instead, he reasons out this conclusion by analogy with other perceptions. 
In  short,  preconceptions  pose  a  problem  that  was  previously  confronted  in  connection  with  perceptions:  how  can  one  bridge  the  gap between relative and objective existence? The most consistent strategy for Epicurus, it seems to me, would be to rely only on perceptions and preconceptions that are common. This is also historically the most plausible solution.  Epicurus'  confidence  that  we  'often'  have  a  perception  of  the source  suggests  that,  because  of  their  great  frequency,  he  thought  that common perceptions can be taken to show objective existence. Common preconceptions, since they are based on so much higher a degree of consensus, can all the more justifiably lay claim to certainty. Common perceptions and preconceptions are not distinguished in their nature from those that  are  individual;  they  are  formed  in  just  the  same  way.  Nonetheless, they support 'authoritative opinions'. 
How, then, does the mind ascend from sensory impressions to a preconception?  The  content  of  the  preconception  of  god  is  not  a  so-called proper object of perception, such as colour, shape, and so on, but properties inferred from such objects. Lucretius lists a sequence of beliefs: the 30  Ep. Hdt.  39, cf. Lucr. i.422. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
p r e c o n c e p t i o n s
281
first three constitute a preconception of the gods, whereas the fourth is a false addition (v.1169-93). The repeated appearance of human-shaped figures with exceptionally vigorous bodies, he explains, caused humans to attribute  sensation,  immortality  and  perfect  happiness  to  these  figures. 
But humans also made the enormous mistake of holding the gods responsible  for  the  events  in  the  heavens.  The  appearances,  it  seems,  give  rise equally  to  true  and  to  false  beliefs.  How  is  one  to  distinguish  between them? What demarcates a preconception from a false belief ? 
Epicurus ( Ep. Men. 123-4) warns against attaching anything to the gods that is 'alien' to their indestructibility and happiness. Such additions, he says,  are  false  suppositions,  not  preconceptions.  Similarly  he  distinguishes between an evident state of a◊airs and an attached belief in the case of perceptions. The di◊erence is that in the case of preconceptions what  is  evident  is  itself  a  belief,  and  that  additional  beliefs  are  tested against it by their compatibility or incompatibility with it. Epicurus illustrates this test in the first of his  Kuriai Doxai: 'What is happy and indestructible does not take trouble or make trouble for another, so that it is subject neither to acts of anger nor to favours; for everything of this sort belongs to weakness.' The test is an inference, which consists in taking the evident superiority of the gods as proof that they are not given to anger or favouritism. 
How, then, do we come to think of the evident properties that constitute  the  preconception?  It  was  suggested  earlier  that  they  are  patterns imprinted  in  the  mind.  This  explanation  requires  some  refinement;  for preconceptions are not simply impressions from outside, but inferences from  them.  By  using  Cicero's  distinction  between  natural  and  taught beliefs, we obtain the conclusion that a preconception is an inferred pattern imposed naturally from outside. Reasoning is an activity produced in the mind by means of atomic movements. To reason is to arrange images; and this mental power is the result of images continually impinging on the mind and establishing certain patterns within it. From the beginning, successively arriving images are arranged automatically according to similarity  and  di◊erence.  This  process  gradually  becomes  an  ability  of  the mind to sort out images deliberately, that is, to perform acts of reasoning. 
Some Epicureans indeed assimilated the formation of preconceptions to the type of reasoning used in constructing scientific arguments. Their position will be examined in detail later; but what they said on preconceptions  is  relevant  here.  Zeno  of  Sidon  proposed  that  all  valid  inferences about what is not observed are inductive inferences, obtained by passing from  carefully  scrutinized  observed  cases  to  similar  unobserved  cases. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
282
e p i c u r e a n   e p i s t e m o l o g y
This  method  is  called  'transition  by  similarity'  (η/ καθ' ο/µοιο!τητα
µετα!βασι).  Preconceptions  are  one  type  of  inference  made  by  this method. For example, we infer that a body, insofar as it is a body, has mass and resistance, and that a human being, as human being, is a rational animal.31
By treating preconceptions just like scientific theories, Zeno runs the risk of obliterating the di◊erence between initial conceptions and the theories  built  on  them.  If  preconceptions  are  theories,  they  are  in  need  of proof. In his text, Philodemus does not distinguish the testing of preconceptions  from  that  of  scientific  theories.  This  does  not  mean,  however, that there is no di◊erence. What is needed is the distinction between a natural type of inference, which results in preconceptions, and a technical type, by which we prove theories. Zeno's analysis must allow this kind of di◊erence if preconceptions are to have epistemological priority. 
Let us return now to Epicurus' initial instructions. A preconception is
'subordinate'  to  'utterances'  ( Ep. Hdt.  37).  When  linguistic  sounds  are uttered, the hearer has thoughts corresponding to the sounds, and these thoughts are of general features existing in the world. A preconception is also  the  'first'  ( Ep. Hdt.  39,  cf.  D.L.  x.33)  thought  corresponding  to  an utterance. This is generally, though not necessarily, the first thought that comes into a person's mind when hearing the sounds. Preconceptions are
'first' in the sense that they are epistemically prior to the beliefs that are attached to them. What makes them 'first' is that they are derived directly from sensory perceptions, with the result that they too are 'evident'. 
As evident starting-points, preconceptions do not require either proof or  definition.32 Epicurus  rejected  the  requirement  for  definitions:  we must indeed be clear about our terms in order to have something to which we may 'look' and 'refer'; but it is never appropriate to start with a definition.33 We may be reminded of a preconception by a brief description, such  as  'god  is  an  indestructible  and  blessed  living  being'.  But  this descriptive sketch merely states what we naturally think of first when we hear the word 'god'. Since we already have a distinct concept, there is no need for it to be supplied or sharpened by a definition. 
If the foregoing discussion is roughly correct, Epicurus intends to base all knowledge on the phenomena of sense perception. The two points on which his method seems most problematic are the gap between relative and  objective  existence,  and  the  exclusion  of  interpretation  from  both 31 Phld.  Sign.  col. 34.5-11. 
32 See Asmis 1984, 39-45. 
33 See further Cic.  Fin. ii.4; and the anonymous commentary on Plato's  Theaetetus, col. 22.39-42
(Bastianini and Sedley 1995, 320). 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
b e l i e f s
283
perceptions  and  preconceptions.  It  remains  to  see  how  these  empirical starting-points can lead to correct beliefs about what is not observed. 
iv Beliefs
Equipped with preconceptions and perceptions, we may formulate problems and test beliefs. These beliefs are of two kinds: about what is 'waiting'  (προσµε!νον),34 and  about  what  is  'nonevident'  (α3δηλον).  The former are verified by 'witnessing' (ε0πιµαρτυ!ρησι) and falsified by 'no witnessing' (ου0κ ε0πιµαρτυ!ρησι). The latter are falsified by 'counterwitnessing' (α0ντιµαρτυ!ρησι) and verified by 'no counterwitnessing' (ου0κ
α0ντιµαρτυ!ρησι). 
The senses can display the things that we believe to exist. For example, upon seeing a roundish tower from a distance, we might form the belief that  the  tower  is  square.  This  belief  is  correct  if  is  'witnessed'  by  the appearance of a square tower when we come close, and false if it is 'not witnessed' in this way. The component -µαρτυ!ρησι shows that the test of  truth  and  falsehood  lies  in  the  first-hand  reports  of  the  senses.  The square tower is an object of belief that 'awaits' verification by a present perception. Epicurus warns specifically that belief about 'what is waiting'
must be distinguished from 'what is present already in perception' ( KD
24). 
Without actually using the term 'waiting' (προσµε!νον), Sextus gives an example in his account of Epicurean verification and falsification. His report, which is the only survey of Epicurus' theory of verification that we have, supplements Epicurus' own schematic distinctions in the  Letter to Herodotus (50-1). 
Witnessing is an apprehension by evidence (κατα!ληψι δι' ε0ναργει!α) that what is believed is such as it was formerly believed. For example, when Plato approaches from afar, I guess and believe, by reason of the distance, that it is Plato. When he has come near, it was witnessed in addition (προσεµαρτυρη!θη), when the distance was eliminated, that it  is  Plato,  and  this  was  witnessed  (ε0πεµαρτυρη!θη)  by  evidence  (δι'
ε0ναργει!α) itself. (S.E.  M  vii.212-13)
34 The MSS are divided between the active and passive participles at  Ep. Hdt. 38 and  KD  24. Bollack 1975 and Long and Sedley 1987 vol. ii, 91, attribute the passive form to Epicurus. Diogenes (x.34) gives some support to this interpretation by assigning the wait to the beholder: 'to wait (προσµει4ναι) and come near the tower and learn how it appears (φαι!νεται) from close up'. On the other hand, the active form, insofar as it designates an object, makes a parallel with both παρο!ν and α3δηλον; and the strangeness of the usage suits Epicurean terminology, as well as providing an explanation for the substitution of the less strange passive form. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
284
e p i c u r e a n   e p i s t e m o l o g y
'No witnessing', the 'opposite' of witnessing, is explained as follows: It  is  an  impact  by  evidence  (υ/πο!πτωσι  δι' ε0ναργει!α)  that  what  is believed  is  not  such  as  it  was  believed.  For  example,  when  someone is approaching from afar, we guess, by reason of the distance, that it is Plato,  but  when  the  distance  has  been  eliminated,  we  have  learned  by evidence (δι' ε0ναργει!α) that it is not Plato. (S.E.  M  vii.215) Beliefs about what is not presently observed are verified by the actual appearance of what was previously conjectured. They are falsified, on the other hand, by the appearance of something other than what was believed. Presumably, the beholder makes a conjecture about an object
'in itself ': he conjectures, for example, that what he sees really is Plato. 
This object is the three-dimensional source of the perception. In vision, it usually presents itself when the distance is short. A belief about such an object is true whenever it is matched by an appearance of the object. 
But how will the beholder know that he has a presentation of the object
'in itself '? His knowledge of the object is always mediated by a presentation.  As  a  perceiver,  he  cannot  gauge  the  amount  of  distortion  in  the atomic  stream.  Physical  theory  can  tell  him  about  distortion,  but  it  is based on a prior faith in perception; nor can it ever give him su√ciently accurate knowledge about any particular perceptual stream. 
Further, what is the truth value of a belief whenever there is no present appearance  that  matches  the  belief ?  Epicurus'  terminology  seems designed  to  fit  the  theory  that  objects  of  perception  are  nothing  but momentary states of the perceiver. Since such objects of perception exist only when perceived, 'no witnessing' is a necessary and su√cient condition for the non-existence of a perceptual object. On this view, everything that is 'waiting' to appear does not yet exist.35
As  we  have  seen,  however,  Epicurus  posits  not  only  real  momentary objects of perception, but also enduring objects of perception. If there are enduring objects of perception, a belief may be true even in the absence of an appearance. Consequently, Epicurus' theory becomes a theory of verification. Even though a belief may be true, it cannot be accepted as true unless there is a confirmatory appearance; and even though a belief may be false,  it  cannot  be  rejected  as  false  unless  there  is  an  appearance  that clashes with it. 
Sextus' examples and explanation agree with the latter interpretation. 
The observer ventures a guess that it 'is' Plato; and this belief is verified by 35 So Asmis 1984, 190-3. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
b e l i e f s
285
an appearance that is without distortion since it is from close up. It is falsified by an appearance that takes the place of a confirmatory appearance. 
'No witnessing' must be understood not merely as the absence of a confirmatory  appearance,  but  as  the  non-existence  of  conditions  that  would produce a confirmatory appearance. Just when a confirmatory appearance should occur, there is an appearance of something else; and this appearance  turns  out  to  be  evidence  of  the  falsity  of  the  belief.  As  Sextus explains, when the distance is eliminated there is evidence that it is not Plato. This is precisely when a confirmatory appearance would appear if there were an object corresponding to the belief. 
Plutarch ( Col. 1121c) faults the Epicureans for thinking that they can escape the realm of appearances. His blustering, hypothetical Epicurean proclaims: 'When I approach the tower and when I touch the oar, I will declare that the oar is straight and the tower angular; but he [the sceptical opponent] will agree to no more than the belief (δοκει4ν) and the appearance (φαι!νεσθαι), even when he comes close.' Plutarch responds that the Epicurean is in just the same position as the sceptic, without realizing it. 
Since no 'presentation or perception is any more evident than another'
( Col.  1121d-e), he cannot pick out any particular presentation as proof of external reality; all presentations equally show only inner conditions. 
Is there any way the Epicureans can justify the move from inner conditions to outer reality? We confronted this question earlier in discussing perceptions. The step that Epicurus proposes as a way out is the existence of  an  atomic  stream  reaching  from  an  external  source  to  the  observer. 
Since this stream can present the source without distortion, it is possible for an observer to have a true opinion about an external perceptual object. 
Coming close to a visual object is a test of the perception, although there is nothing about a presentation itself that makes one more reliable than another: that is just the point of saying that all are equally evident. The critics appear to be right that, as far as Epicurean theory goes, no amount of testing can guarantee that a belief is true. Epicurus and his followers seem to insist that in practice, when all are agreed on the confirmation of a belief by a presentation, a belief can be upheld as certain or 'authoritative'
(κυρι!α). 
*
We  now  turn  from  sensory  phenomena  to  the  hidden  entities  that  are investigated by physical science. By contrast with things that are 'waiting', 
'nonevident' things are not expected to become evident. But they too are known by reference to appearances. If a theory is 'counterwitnessed' by Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
286
e p i c u r e a n   e p i s t e m o l o g y
sensory evidence, it is false; if it is 'not counterwitnessed', it is true ( Ep. 
 Hdt. 50-1). Again, the component - marture-sis  shows that the ultimate test of the belief lies in the reports of the senses. 
Just a little way into his physical investigations in the  Letter to Herodotus (39), Epicurus states that one must infer (τεκµαι!ρεσθαι) the nonevident by  calculation  (λογισµο!)  in  accordance  with  perception,  'as  I  said before'. This is a reference to the preceding note ( Ep. Hdt. 38), in which he said  that  one  must  use  sensory  observations  as  'signs'.  The  verb  τεκµαι!ρεσθαι implies  that  sensory  phenomena  serve  as  conclusive  signs, τεκµη!ρια, of what is nonevident. Whereas the phenomena serve only as plausible indicators of what will appear, they show conclusively whether a theory is true or false. The conclusion is worked out by a calculation that shows the perceptual consequences of a theory. 
Whereas beliefs about perceptible things are verified by an appearance and falsified by the lack of a confirmatory appearance, beliefs about nonevident things are falsified by appearances and verified by the lack of dis-confirmatory appearances. Sextus explains falsification as follows: Counterwitnessing (α0ντιµαρτυ!ρησι is . . . the elimination (α0νασκευη!) of the phenomenon by the posited nonevident thing. For example, the Stoic says that there is no void, claiming something nonevident, but the phenomenon - I mean motion - must be co-eliminated by what is thus posited.  For  supposing  there  is  no  void,  necessarily  motion  does  not occur either . . . (S.E.  M  viii.214)
The belief that there is no void is 'counterwitnessed' by the phenomenon of motion; for motion is eliminated by the elimination of void. The proof is  constructed  in  this  way.  We  conjecture:  there  is  no  void.  This  is  a hypothesis  about  what  is  nonevident.  Next  we  calculate:  if  there  is  no void, there is no motion. But we observe that there is motion. It follows that there is void. 
In  his  abbreviated  account  at   Ep. Hdt.  39-40,  Epicurus  supplies  no argument in support of the conditional claim 'if there is no void, there is no motion'. Both Lucretius (i.335-9) and Sextus ( M  vii.213) indicate that he  argued  along  these  lines:  if  everything  is  packed  tight  with  bodies, there is no place for bodies to move into; hence there can be no beginning of movement. What in turn supports this calculation? The claim 'if there is no void, there is no movement' looks suspiciously like an a priori claim borrowed from the Eleatics; and it has usually been understood as such. If Epicurus did take over an Eleatic claim, without somehow recasting it as an  empirical  claim,  then  his  two  initial  rules  do  not  summarize  his Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
b e l i e f s
287
method. If Epicurus is content to adopt a priori truths, he does not build his scientific structure entirely on a foundation of sensory phenomena. 
Epicurus' followers argued vehemently that the conditional is known empirically. Epicurus himself might well have supported his apparently Eleatic claim by appealing to empirical conceptions of body, motion, and void.  In  constructing  the  conditional  'if  there  is  no  void  there  is  no motion',  he  uses  the  preconception  of  'body'  as  something  that  resists touch. This notion is derived from perception. Suppose, then, that everything is body: there would everywhere be resistance, so that none of the bodies could begin to move. 
Epicurus  uses  the  same  method  of  'counterwitnessing'  to  prove  the first two doctrines of his physics. He supports his first claim that 'nothing comes to be from nonbeing' by arguing: if this were not the case, then everything  would  come  to  be  from  everything.  As  Lucretius  (i.159-73) makes clear in his detailed proof, this consequence is in conflict with the phenomena. That we do not see everything coming from everything is an evident sign of the nonevident state of a◊airs 'nothing comes to be from nonbeing'. 
Here is a clear example of an apparently Eleatic doctrine being verified by  reference  to  an  empirical  fact.  It  is  important  to  note  that  Epicurus proves the truth of the apparently Eleatic claim by an argument that takes the phenomena as evidently true. He does not simply add confirmation by showing  an  agreement  with  the  phenomena.  He  establishes  its  truth wholly by an argument showing that it must be true if the phenomena are as  they  are.  A  critic  may  well  doubt  whether  the  premiss  'if  something were to come from nonbeing, everything would come from everything'
can  be  established  empirically.  Epicurus  presumably  thought  he  could verify it by reference to an empirical concept of coming-to-be. 
Epicurus'  second  claim,  that  nothing  is  destroyed  into  nonbeing,  is established in the same way by reference to the phenomena. The foundation of Epicurus' physics, then, rests on the method of 'counterwitnessing'. A theory is proved by the refutation of its contradictory. But how does this fit with the method of 'no counterwitnessing', by which a theory is said to be verified? Sextus explains as follows:
No  counterwitnessing  (ου0κ  α0ντιµαρτυ!ρησι)  is  the  consequence (α0κολουθι!α) of the posited and believed nonevident thing upon the phenomenon. For example, when Epicurus says that there is void, which is nonevident, this is proved by something evident, motion. For if there is not void, there must not be motion either, since the moving body does not  have  a  place  into  which  it  will  pass  because  everything  is  full  and Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
288
e p i c u r e a n   e p i s t e m o l o g y
packed. So, since there is motion, the phenomenon 'does not counterwitness' the believed nonevident thing. (S.E.  M  vii.213) Again, Sextus' account implicitly contains a conditional. The argument may be formulated as: if there is motion, there is void; there is motion; therefore there is void. The non-evident thing, void, has the relationship of 'consequence' to the evident thing, motion. In other words, it 'follows upon'  motion.  This  consequence  defines  'no  counterwitnessing'.  Since the  conditional  is  equivalent  to  the  contrapositive  'if  there  is  no  void, there is no motion', 'no counterwitnessing' turns out to consist in the dis-proof ('counterwitnessing') of the negated hypothesis. 
This  restriction  of  'no  counterwitnessing'  is  surprising.  One  expects
'no counterwitnessing' to mean simply that there is no counterevidence against a hypothesis, not that there is evidence against its contradictory. 
'Consequence' seems too strong a requirement. Why should the nonevident thing 'follow upon' the phenomena rather than simply be in agreement with them? But if we fault Sextus' definition as being too restrictive, another di√culty looms. Mere agreement with the phenomena permits multiple alternative explanations, all equally plausible. How can multiple explanations all be true? It has been suggested that Epicurus viewed 'no counterwitnessing' simply as a test of possibility.36 But this goes against his  own  statement  ( Ep. Hdt.  51)  that  'no  counterwitnessing'  is  a  test  of truth, as well as upsetting the symmetry of his fourfold scheme of verification and falsification. 
Epicurus himself made much use of multiple explanations; and these promise  to  throw  some  light  on  the  di√culty.  He  held  that,  whereas single explanations are required for the foundation of physics, there is no need for single explanations of all events. Multiple explanations for the events in the heavens, for example, are su√cient for our happiness. Single explanations have a 'single agreement (συµφωνι!α) with the phenomena'; multiple explanations have a multiple agreement ( Ep. Pyth. 86). Epicurus repeatedly  refers  to  this  multiple  agreement  by  saying  that  there  is  'no counterwitnessing'. He asserts, for example, that images may be formed in various ways, none of which 'is counterwitnessed by the perceptions'
( Ep. Hdt.  48).  He  defends  his  extensive  use  of  multiple  explanations  in astronomy and meteorology by saying that all are 'in agreement with' or
'not  counterwitnessed  by',  the  phenomena  ( Ep. Pyth.  86-8,  92,  95,  98). 
Singling out one explanation, on the other hand, when there are several, 
'conflicts' with the phenomena ( Ep. Pyth. 96). 
36 See Striker 1974, 73-80. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
b e l i e f s
289
Lucretius shows how there is truth in multiple explanations. He compares the observation of events in the heavens with seeing a corpse at a distance (vi.703-11). It is necessary to state all causes of death - sword, cold, illness, poison, and so on - he writes, in order to state the one cause of this particular death; similarly, for some events it is necessary to state several causes,  'of  which  one  nonetheless  is  the  case'.  After  proposing  several explanations of the movements of the stars, he points out that 'it is di√cult to state for certain' which of these causes applies to this world; yet he does state  'what  can  and  does  happen'  in  the  universe  as  a  whole  and  one  of these events 'necessarily' occurs in this world (v.526-33). One of the multiple explanations, therefore, does apply to the specific event under investigation.  All  of  them  together  apply  to  the  general  type  of  event  under investigation. Just as each cause of death applies to some death, so each cause of stellar movement applies to some star in the universe as a whole. 
Multiple explanations, therefore, are all true with respect to the general type  of  event;  and  one  of  the  explanations  is  true  of  the  specific  event. 
Since the event to be explained is known only as a general type, all explanations are true of just what is being explained. If the investigator had more specific information (by being able to come closer, for example, as in inspecting a corpse), then the explanation might be narrowed to a single cause. What is 'persuasive' (as Epicurus puts it) about multiple explanations is that any one of them might apply, and one does apply, to the specific event under investigation. In a sense, therefore, each explanation is
'possible' rather than true. At the same time, however, each explanation is true of some specific event belonging to the general type. 
If this interpretation is correct, the method of 'no counterwitnessing'
is  at  least  in  part  an  inductive  method.  'No  counterwitnessing'  occurs whenever  there  is  unopposed  similarity  between  a  phenomenon  and something  nonevident.  Yet  Sextus  Empiricus  says  nothing  whatsoever about induction in his explanation of this method. How can his view of
'no  counterwitnessing'  as  the  counterwitnessing  of  the  contradictory hypothesis be reconciled with Epicurus' use of induction? We might suppose that there are two kinds of 'no counterwitnessing': counterevidence against  the  contradictory  hypothesis;  and  the  lack  of  counterevidence against an inductive inference. Sextus mentions only the former kind. But this does not imply that his account is inaccurate. Provided that his definition of 'no counterwitnessing' as a 'consequence' of the nonevident thing upon  the  phenomenon  can  accommodate  unopposed  induction,  his account is not even incomplete, even though he uses an example that illustrates only one type of 'no counterwitnessing'. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
290
e p i c u r e a n   e p i s t e m o l o g y
It will be objected that induction can never yield 'consequence': it does not 'follow upon' observed facts, no matter how numerous or how thoroughly tested, that something else, that is known to be similar in other respects, has the inferred similarity. Yet Epicurus' followers did argue just this.  Drawing  on  his  teacher  Zeno,  Philodemus  argues  in  his  book   On Signs  that there is 'consequence' in inductive inferences no less than in inferences by 'elimination': in both cases, the nonevident thing 'follows upon' the phenomenon. Indeed, he maintains that all truths about what is nonevident  are  really  inductive  inferences.  By  recasting  all  calculations about what is nonevident as inductions, Zeno and his associates tried to remove  all  shadow  of  a  doubt  that  there  might  be  some  a  priori  truths lurking in the foundations of Epicurean science. 
Before  we  make  a  final  judgement,  then,  about  Epicurus'  method  of inference, we must turn to his followers. 
*
Philodemus'   On  Signs  is  a  response  to  an  attack  against  the  Epicurean method of inductive inference, called 'method of similarity' or 'transition by similarity' (η/ καθ' ο/µοιο!τητα  µετα!βασι).37 The opponents claim that  only  the  'method  of  elimination  (α0νασκευη!)'  is  valid.  Philodemus responds that the method of similarity is the only valid method of inference and that it subsumes elimination. 
This  response  was  worked  out  by  Philodemus'  teacher,  Zeno  of Sidon, in association with other Epicureans. Only one opponent, a certain  Dionysius,  is  named.  He  has  customarily  been  identified  as  a Stoic.38 But he could just as well have been an Academic. We have one other attack on Epicurean induction. It is part of a sustained attack on Epicurean theology by the Academic Cotta in Cicero's  De natura deorum (i.87-90,  97-8).  Mocking  the  'very  great  delight'  that  the  Epicureans take in similarity ('Isn't a dog similar to a wolf ?', he asks, i.97), Cotta makes some of the same objections that occur in Philodemus' work. In fact, there was a broad coalition of philosophers and scientists who were aligned  against  Epicurean  induction;  and  Philodemus  seems  to  be responding to all of them. He o◊ers a revised Epicurean theory of signs that  takes  into  account  developments  of  the  preceding  two  centuries, and he presents this revision in several versions: his own report of con-37 Barnes 1988c, 110-11, warns against calling the method of similarity 'induction'; but see Long's response (1988c, 140). 
38 Sedley  1982c,  240-1,  defends  the  view  that  he  is  the  Stoic  Dionysius  of  Cyrene,  a  pupil  of Diogenes of Babylon. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
b e l i e f s
291
versations with Zeno; a report of Zeno's teachings by a fellow student, Bromius; a summary by the Epicurean Demetrius of Laconia, followed by a detailed attack and defence by an unidentified source who may well be Demetrius again. 
A sign inference may be expressed with the help of a conditional: 'if the first, the second', where 'the first' expresses the sign, which is something evident, and 'the second' is the nonevident thing that is signified. In common with other philosophers, the Epicureans call this kind of sign 'particular'  (ι3διον,  14.7,  32.36,  33.3).  Instead  of  signifying  a  multiplicity  of situations and so being common (κοινο!ν) to what is true and false, a particular sign uniquely signifies what is the case. A particular sign, moreover, 'necessitates' the existence of the nonevident thing that it signifies (i.12-16). 
A basic issue, then, is this: what makes a conditional true? Philodemus accepts  that  a  conditional  is  true  whenever  its  contrapositive  is  true (11.32-7). However, he insists, it does not follow from this that only the method of elimination has the necessity of a particular sign (11.37-12.1, 32.31-33.1). A conditional is true by elimination whenever the removal of  the  hypothetical  nonevident  thing,  just  by  itself,  brings  about  the removal  of  the  evident  thing  (12.1-14,  14.11-14).  Sometimes,  indeed, the elimination of the consequent carries with it the elimination of the antecedent, as in the conditional 'if there is motion there is void'. But there is also another valid method, that of similarity. According to this method, a conditional is true whenever it is impossible to conceive of the first being the case and the second, which is similar, not being the case. 
An example is: 'If Plato is a human being, Socrates too is a human being'
(12.14-31). This is true because it is inconceivable that Plato is a human being and Socrates is not; and what makes it inconceivable is the similarity between Plato and Socrates. Philodemus claims that in the second type of conditional, too, there is 'consequence' (37.9-17) of the nonevident thing upon the evident thing and a necessary 'link' (συνηρτη4σθαι, 35.5). 
Philodemus  (37.1-12)  grants  that  there  is  sometimes  a  special  'inter-weaving' (συµπλοκη!) between what is evident and what is nonevident. 
An example is the link between a product and its constituents. In these special cases, a sign conditional is true by elimination. Philodemus here seems to be singling out necessary causal connections. But there is also a conceptual link, which is just as necessary as the causal link. In these cases, the removal of the nonevident thing (such as Socrates' humanity) is not accompanied by the removal of the evident thing (Plato's humanity), but Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
292
e p i c u r e a n   e p i s t e m o l o g y
it is inconceivable (α0διανο!ητον) for the observed thing to exist or be of a certain sort and for the nonevident thing not to be likewise.39
In defence of this position, Philodemus distinguishes between two uses of the expression '(insofar) as'. The first has the form: since certain things in our experience are of a certain sort, nonevident things are also of this sort 'insofar as' the things in our experience are of this sort. An example is: since humans in our experience, insofar as they are humans, are mortal, if there are humans anywhere they are mortal (33.24-32). Here '(insofar) as'
picks out the similarity (humanity) which is assumed to be common to observed and nonevident instances. Since it is always observed to be conjoined with another feature, mortality, one may draw the general conclusion that humans, '(insofar) as' humans, are mortal. This universal claim, Philodemus insists, is a conclusion that is reached by, and indeed only by, the  method  of  similarity  (17.3-8).  Conceptual  necessity  is  established empirically, by inductive inferences based on observed conjunctions. 
Philodemus states the relationship between elimination and similarity in various ways. At times, he is concerned to show that the method of elimination is not the only valid method and so argues for two methods. At other times, he subordinates the method of elimination to the method of similarity. He claims that the method of similarity 'extends' entirely through the method of elimination, which is 'secured' by it (7.8-11, 8.22-9.8). He also says  outright  that  there  is  just  one  method  of  sign  inference,  similarity; those who abolish it, abolish all inference by signs (30.33-31.1). 
Along with promoting induction as the only method of knowing the truth about what is nonevident, the Epicureans attempted to strengthen it. Within their own system, they needed to set apart scientific induction from guesses about what will appear, which are verified only by an actual appearance. The Epicurean task was particularly urgent since other philosophers, joined by scientists, concluded that induction, no matter how well tested, yields no more than a good guess. Thus the Empiricist school of medicine, which originated in the third century bc, developed an intricate method for using accumulations of observations as guides to treatment, not as a means of discovering what is nonevident.40 Whenever they did  not  have  past  observations,  the  Empiricists  proposed  to  resort  to
'transition by similarity', by comparing the present situation to a similar observed situation.41 Philodemus closes his book  On Signs  with a parting shot at the physicians who use 'transition of similarity'.42 These are surely 39 See also 14.2-27 and 32.31-33.9. 
40 Gal.  Subf. Emp. chapters 1-6. 
41 See below, pp. 511-12. 
42 14.17; cf. 15.37-8, 38.6-8, and 14.23-4. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
b e l i e f s
293
Empiricists, refusing to use the method of similarity as a means of discovering the truth. 
Against this trend, Zeno and his friends argued that a careful calculation of the phenomena, called ε0πιλογισµο!, produces knowledge of what is  unobserved.  Epicurus  had  distinguished  'calculation'  (ε0πιλογισµο!) from 'proof ' (α0πο!δειξι). It is an analysis of what is evident, as opposed to a demonstration of what is nonevident. 'There is need of calculation, not proof ' for example, that we associate time with days, nights, and so on ( Ep. Hdt. 73). We must 'calculate' what our natural goal is ( Ep. Men. 133). 
As well as extending the method of induction to all sign inferences, Zeno and his group extend calculation to all forms of reasoning. It turns out that the type of rational reflection used to discover what is nonevident is nothing but calculation. In short, scientific proof is nothing but a calculation about the phenomena. 
Philodemus sums up the Epicurean method as 'scrutinizing [or 'going around',  περιοδευο!ντων]  the  similarities  by  calculation'  (17.32-4)  and
'drawing  conclusions  by  calculation'  (23.5-6).  There  are  three  main points. One must consider many instances that are not only of the same kind but also varied (20.32-6, 33.12-13, 35.9-10). Further, one must rely not  only  on  one's  own  observations,  but  also  on  the  reports  of  others (16.35-8, 20.37-9, 32.13-21). Last, there must be no indication to the contrary (e.g. 16.38-17.2, 21.13-14). The inferences are so thoroughly tested that  there  is  'neither  a  footprint  nor  a  glimmer'  to  the  contrary,  as Demetrius vividly puts it (29.1-4). These rules incorporate methods used by the opponents. Carneades proposed the 'scrutinized' (περιοδευοµε!νη) presentation  as  the  most  trustworthy  of  three  kinds  of  presentation.43
The Empiricist doctors divided observations into two kinds, 'seeing for oneself ' and 'inquiry'. Philodemus charges his opponents with ignoring the fact that the Epicureans rely not only on their own experience, but also on the reports of others (32.13-21). 
How  faithful,  then,  are  the  later  Epicureans  to  Epicurus?  Let  us  first consider Sextus. According to Philodemus, the truth of a belief about what is  nonevident  does  indeed  consist  in  a  relationship  of  'consequence'
between what is evident and what is nonevident. Philodemus analyses this consequence  di◊erently  from  the  way  Sextus  illustrates  it.  But  since Philodemus recognizes elimination as a special type of inference, there is no conflict with Sextus' report. Sextus does not say that the whole of 'no counterwitnessing' is elimination: he merely exemplifies it by elimination. 
43 S.E.  M  vii.182-4; it is also called διεξοδευοµε!νη. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
294
e p i c u r e a n   e p i s t e m o l o g y
Nothing in his analysis implies that he (or his source) did not know of the reformulation proposed by Zeno. Indeed, the fact that he does not define
'no counterwitnessing' as a form of elimination, but defines it instead as
'consequence', suggests that he may have been familiar with Zeno's views. 
As for Epicurus, there is no evidence that he ever reformulated his argument for the void, or any other argument later said to exemplify 'elimination', as an induction. Epicurus' followers are notorious for refusing to depart from the doctrines of their master. But they showed themselves very  willing  to  interpret  these  doctrines  in  new  ways,  especially  in response to attacks by other philosophers.44 It was suggested earlier that, if his methodology is to be consistent, Epicurus must reduce all calculations  about  what  is  unobserved  to  empirical  judgements.  He  does  not explain in his extant writings how this reduction is to be accomplished. 
With help from their opponents, his followers worked out what they considered to be the implications of his position. All calculations about what is  unobserved,  they  proposed,  are  inductive  judgements.  Among  these judgements  are  preconceptions.  The  Epicureans  thereby  restructured Epicurus' distinction between what is evident and what is nonevident. In agreement with Epicurus, they demarcated what we observe from what needs  to  be  inferred  from  observations.  But  very  di◊erently  from Epicurus, they built a transition from the one to the other by allowing su√ciently  tested  empirical  judgements  to  become,  in  the  end,  judgements  about  what  is  unobserved.  The  sign  conditional,  which  grounds the inference, is verified in this way entirely by empirical observations. As a result, the conclusion rests entirely on self-evident, empirical premisses. 
44 Cf. Sedley 1989a. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
9
Stoic epistemology
m i c h a e l   f r e d e
i The possibility of knowledge
Stoic epistemology1 is best understood as a response to a twofold challenge. Socrates had assumed that whether one had a good life depended on  whether  one  had  managed  to  acquire  a  certain  kind  of  knowledge, which he identified with wisdom, in particular the knowledge of what is good and what is bad. For this reason he had devoted his life to philosophical inquiry concerning the good, the bad and related matters. Yet, for all of  his  e◊orts,  even  he  himself  did  not  think  that  he  had  obtained  this knowledge. At the same time Socrates had made it clear that we should not content ourselves with mere belief or opinion concerning these matters, even if this belief happened to be true. One would not want to rely for the success or failure of one's life on mere opinion which at best happened to be true. Moreover, the Socratic elenchus suggested that one was not entitled to any belief which one did not hold as a matter of knowledge. 
For  Socratic  refutation  seemed  to  rest  on  the  fact  that  somebody  who holds a belief as a matter of mere opinion can be made to see that he has equal reason to espouse the contradictory belief. 
A century of philosophers since Socrates had done no better. Indeed, as if  oblivious  to  Socrates'  strictures  against  mere  belief,  they  had  rushed precipitously to produce thesis after thesis, theses often quite extravagant and often contradicting each other, and in any case all a matter of mere opinion, as closer scrutiny would reveal. The first challenge, then, was to find a way to break out of the realm of mere belief in order to arrive at true knowledge. This challenge was first taken up by the Epicureans, and it is important  to  see  that  the  Stoic  response  is  patterned  on  the  Epicurean response. The Stoics follow the Epicureans in assuming that knowledge is made possible by the facts (i) that some of the impressions we have are by 1 Main texts: Cicero   Acad. i.40-2;  ii.17-31, 143-6; Sextus   M. vii.150-8, 227-60, 401-35. D.L. 
vii.49-54.  Note,  in  addition,  PHerc.  1020;  Stobaeus   Ecl.  ii.7.5;  Aëtius  iv.12.1-5.  Literature: Watson 1966; Sandbach 1971; Striker 1974; Frede 1983; Annas 1990b. 
[295]
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
296
s t o i c   e p i s t e m o l o g y
their very nature infallibly true and thus can serve as a secure foundation for knowledge, and (ii) that one of the ways in which these impressions are foundational is that, by a natural process, they give rise to certain concepts,  the  so-called  anticipations,  in  terms  of  which  we  naturally  think about  objects  and  which  reliably  embody  certain  general  truths  about those objects. 
But as the first Stoics try to develop their own version of a theory of how,  on  the  basis  of  certain  privileged  impressions  and  concepts,  we might  arrive  at  knowledge,  another  challenge  arises  in  the  form  of Academic scepticism. The Academic sceptics, too, go back to Socrates and reflect on the moral to be drawn from Socrates' failure to attain knowledge. They, too, are scandalized by the endless proliferation of mere opinion,  easily  disposed  of  by  the  kind  of  dialectical  questioning  to  which Socrates subjected his interlocutors. But the sceptics also question Zeno's first  attempts  to  show  how  we  might  break  out  of  the  circle,  in  which opinion  just  breeds  further  opinion  rather  than  knowledge.  Zeno assumes that nature provides us with certain infallibly true impressions of things and that she also provides us with a basic set of notions or concepts which are true to things. But why should we not regard these assumptions,  too,  as  just  further  opinions?  Thus,  almost  from  the  start,  Stoic epistemology also has to respond to the sceptic challenge. 
One reason why, in the face of weighty sceptical arguments to the contrary, the Stoics continue to insist that knowledge is attainable and that it must be possible to identify how it is attainable, is this. The Stoics believe that our life depends on whether we are wise or not. They also believe that nature is provident, and hence must have arranged things in such a way that the knowledge which constitutes wisdom is humanly attainable, if it is true that a good life depends on wisdom. Hence it must be possible to identify the way in which nature has made knowledge and wisdom attainable by us. Looked at in this light, Stoic epistemology amounts to a complex hypothesis as to how nature has endowed us with the means to attain knowledge and wisdom. This hypothesis itself should be such that one can come to espouse it as a matter of knowledge precisely in the way the theory tells us that we can attain knowledge. 
ii Cognition
If we think of Socrates' arguments, or - for that matter - of any kind of philosophical arguments, there is the notorious problem of how, on this basis,  we  are  supposed  to  arrive  at  knowledge.  However  plausible  and Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
c o g n i t i o n
297
incontrovertible the premisses may appear, as long as they represent mere belief, the conclusion, too, will represent no more than mere belief. There is  no  way  to  get  from  mere  belief  to  knowledge,  however  cogent  one's arguments may be. It is fairly clear that Zeno's first cautious move was to claim that, beside mere belief or opinion ( doxa) and knowledge ( episte-me-), we have to distinguish a third kind of state, namely cognition ( katale-psis): He ascribed reliability not to all impressions, but only to those which manifest,  in  a  certain  particular  way,  those  objects  which  make  the impressions; and such an impression, when it is perceived in itself, he called cognizable . . . And when it is already received and accepted, he called it a cognition ( comprehensio). (Cicero  Acad. i.41)2
It will turn out that cognition prominently includes, but is not restricted to,  perceptual  cognition.  What  matters  here  is  that  Zeno  starts  out  by drawing our attention to the fact that sometimes when we believe that something is the case, for instance because we clearly perceive it to be the case, our belief is not just a matter of mere opinion. When I clearly see that the book in front of me is green, it is not a matter of mere opinion if I think that the book is green. Nor yet, however, is it a matter of knowledge. For to know that the book is green is supposed to be a matter of being in a state such that there is no argument which could persuade one that it is not the case that the book is green. But the mere fact that one clearly sees that the book is green does not su√ce to rule out the possibility that one can be argued into not believing that the book is green. Hence the distinction between mere belief, cognition, and knowledge. 
Given  the  importance  Zeno  attaches  to  this  threefold  distinction,  it may help to reflect on what Zeno might have in mind when he talks about cognition. Suppose the book in front of me in fact is green. I clearly see that it is green and thus believe it to be green. Somebody else, too, believes it to be green. But he believes it to be green, not because he clearly sees it to be green, but because I tell him that it is green, or because he believes all books  to  be  green  (and  hence  does  not  bother  to  look  at  this  book)  or because of any number of other reasons. Reflecting on this 'because', one sees that there are any number of possible connections between the fact that the book is green and somebody's belief that it is green. In the case of some of these connections we are willing to say that one would not think that the book was green, unless it actually was green, that, if it were some other colour, one would think that it was of this other colour, and that one believes it to be green, precisely because it is green. We have a connection 2 See also Sextus  M  vii.150-1. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
298
s t o i c   e p i s t e m o l o g y
of this sort when under normal conditions we clearly see a green book in front of us. In most cases, however, the connection between the fact and the belief is such that one would not be able to say that the person believed something to be the case precisely because it is the case. If, for instance, somebody believes the book to be green because he is told that it is green, the  connection  is  too  tenuous  to  guarantee  that  the  person,  given  this connection, would not think the book to be green unless it actually was green, and that the person would think otherwise if it were of some other colour. The belief might still be true; but this would be due not to the connection specified, but to the fact that certain further conditions happen to be satisfied. 
In each case the connection explains the belief. But in the first case the connection also guarantees the truth of the belief. A belief which is such that one holds the belief that something is the case precisely because it is the case, is guaranteed to be true. Hence we can call it a 'cognition'. In the second kind of case, on the other hand, the connection does not guarantee that the belief is true. Somebody who believes something to be the case just because he is told so may have a true belief; but the way he comes to have this belief, far from guaranteeing its truth, leaves open a number of possibilities that his belief may be false. In this case we talk of 'mere opinion' or 'belief '. 
When Cicero turns to Zeno's innovations in logic (of which epistemology is treated as a part), he focuses on Zeno's introduction of the notion of cognition.  He  also  reports  that  Zeno,  to  mark  this  new  notion,  introduced a new technical term, ' katale-psis', literally 'grasp'.3 In having a cognition the mind is in touch with things so as to grasp them. Accordingly, Cicero renders this term and its cognates by ' comprehensio'  or ' perceptio'
and their cognates. If we remember that ' perceptio'  is used as a literal translation of ' katale-psis', it will be easier to avoid the rash, and wrong, assumption that all cases of cognition are cases of perception in our sense, even though  cases  of  perceptual  cognition  are  paradigms  of  cognition.  That this would be wrong is clear, for instance, from the Stoic definition of science as a certain kind of body of cognitions. The Stoics surely do not mean to say that we know the theorems of a science, for instance geometry, as a matter of perceptual cognition. Indeed, they explicitly distinguish (D.L. 
vii.52)  between  perceptual  and  rational  or  intellectual  cognitions.  So  it certainly is not part of the notion of cognition that a cognition is a perception, even if a perception is the paradigm of a cognition. 
3  Acad. i.41; cf.  Acad.  ii.17. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
c o g n i t i o n
299
Cicero also renders ' katale-psis'  by ' cognitio', and this seems to be a particularly apt term to refer to the kind of grasp which goes beyond mere belief, and which already would amount to knowledge, if the Stoics did not further  require  of  knowledge  that  one  cannot  be  argued  out  of  what  one knows to be the case. Later times which were not particularly interested in this  further  requirement  did  in  fact  treat  cognition  as  the  basic  form  of knowledge, as we can see, for instance, in Augustine's  Contra Academicos. 
How is the introduction of the notion of 'cognition' as a third kind of epistemic state supposed to explain how we might attain knowledge? A clue is o◊ered by the fact that both accounts of Zeno's threefold distinction, in spite of their brevity, insist that, though knowledge is available only to those who are already wise, cognition is available to sage and fool alike. So, the point of the threefold distinction is to establish that we are not in the hopeless situation of trying to arrive at true knowledge on the basis of mere opinion. Even the fool has something better to rely on than mere opinion, namely cognition. In fact, if we follow Sextus, Zeno seems to have made a more precise suggestion. Given that Sextus claims to be reporting Arcesilaus' attack on the Stoic position, the position attacked, for chronological reasons, must be Zeno's position. If this is correct, then Zeno not only introduced the threefold distinction of opinion, cognition and knowledge, as is explicitly attested by Cicero: he also went on to claim that cognition constitutes the criterion of truth ( M  vii.153). Setting aside the subtleties involved in a precise understanding of the notion of a criterion of truth,4 it would seem that Zeno must at least have meant to say the following. We are to treat cognition as the criterion of truth in the sense that we are to believe only those things to be true of which we have cognition and to judge the truth of other things in terms of these. We in fact believe lots of things to be true. But we are not to believe them, even if they happen to be true, unless we have cognition of them. This closely accords with another Stoic view, independently attested for Zeno (Cic. 
 Acad. ii.77) that, if one is wise, one will have no mere opinions. 
It is easy to see what would happen if we actually managed to follow this criterion of truth. All of our beliefs would be cognitions, and this very fact would turn each of these cognitions into a piece of incontrovertible knowledge. As long as we allow ourselves mere opinions, there is no guarantee that some of these opinions might not be false and that, being false, might serve as premisses in a conclusive argument to the e◊ect that something we believed to be the case was not the case, even if it is true and if we 4 Cf. Striker 1974 and 1990. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
300
s t o i c   e p i s t e m o l o g y
as a matter of cognition believe it to be the case. This is why isolated cognitions as such are controvertible. But if we no longer entertain any mere opinions, the possibility that our cognitive grasp on a fact may be undermined by an argument to the contrary is eliminated. And with this possibility eliminated, each cognition we have will automatically turn into a piece of knowledge. 
So we have the beginnings of an account of how knowledge is possible in terms of 'cognition'. But this account raises a number of questions. To begin with, we want to know whether there really are cognitions, that is to say beliefs which by their very nature, or the way they have come about, are guaranteed to be true. We also want to know how in practice we are supposed to be able to distinguish between mere opinion and cognition in such a way as to believe only those things of which we have cognition. 
And, finally, we want to know whether the cognitions we have will su√ce to attain and to support the knowledge we are after, namely wisdom. For suppose it turned out that we only had cognition of those things which one can perceive to be the case, this would hardly su√ce to attain the truly general knowledge which is involved in being wise. 
It is reasonably clear that, in order to be able to address these questions, Zeno went beyond the first step of introducing the notion of cognition and of claiming that we should treat cognition as the criterion of truth. 
For Arcesilaus in his dispute with Zeno raised at least the first two questions. And our sources attribute to Zeno the introduction of a further crucial notion, closely associated with the notion of cognition, namely the notion  of  a  cognitive  impression;  and  they  testify  to  a  dispute  with Arcesilaus  about  the  appropriate  definition  of  cognitive  impressions. 
What is at issue in this dispute is the existence and the distinctness and distinguishability of cognitive impressions and hence of cognitions. So it is clear that Zeno began to work out a more elaborate theory to answer the questions which his doctrine of cognition raises. It is di√cult to say, though,  to  what  extent  the  more  elaborate  theory  attributed  in  our sources to the Stoics in general can be traced back to Zeno himself. And I will not make any further attempt to trace the evolution of what came to be the standard Stoic doctrine in this matter, which, in the form it had been given by Chrysippus, was later attacked by Carneades. 
iii Cognitive impressions
Zeno's suggestion as to how we come to have knowledge is that we discard mere opinions and espouse only those beliefs which are cognitive, Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
c o g n i t i v e   i m p r e s s i o n s
301
which we have as a matter of cognition. This presupposes that it is up to us what we believe and what we do not believe. And this is, indeed, the view Zeno and the Stoics take and articulate in the following way. They assume that to believe something involves two things. It involves having an impression or thought ( phantasia), and it involves giving assent to, or accepting, this impression or thought ( sunkatathesis).5 The impressions, as the term indicates, are a matter of passive a◊ection. We do not deliberately form the particular impressions we form. But whether we assent to them or not, is our doing. This is why we are responsible for our beliefs. 
Cognition, too, is a matter of giving assent to an impression. 
Now a belief will be true or false, depending on whether the impression it is an assent to is true or false. Hence, if cognitions are true, they are true because the corresponding impressions are true. What is more, if cognitions have a privileged epistemic status due to the way they come about, such that they cannot fail to be true, then the impressions to which they are an assent must similarly have a privileged epistemic status such that they cannot fail to be true, given the way they come about. After all, the way they come about just is the way the corresponding cognition comes about, except that the cognition involves the further step of giving assent to the cognitive impression. 
The Stoics call such impressions the assent to which constitutes a cognition ' phantasiai katale-ptikai', that is 'cognitive impressions'. There has been some debate about the precise force of ' katale-ptikos'  in this context.6
But if we assume that Zeno first introduced the notion of a  katale-psis  and only then the notion of a corresponding impression, the use of the term
' katale-ptikos' for the impression is no more puzzling than the parallel use of  'cognitive'  in  'cognitive  impression'.  It  signals  that  the  impression referred to is the distinctive kind of impression involved in cognition. It might also indicate, though, that the impression is such as to enable us to grasp the corresponding fact, if we give assent to it. 
However  this  may  be,  having  analysed  a  cognition  into  a  cognitive impression and the assent to it, the Stoics now have to show that there are cognitive  impressions,  that  is  to  say  that  cognitive  impressions  form  a class  of  impressions  which  in  reality  are  distinct  from  the  impressions involved in mere opinions. It is primarily on this that the debate between Stoics  and  Academics  focused,  from  Arcesilaus  down  to  the  end  of  the sceptical Academy early in the first century bc. In this sense the doctrine of cognitive impressions formed the nucleus of Stoic epistemology. 
5 Cf. Görler 1977 and Arthur 1983. 
6 Cf. Sandbach 1971; Pohlenz 1959, vol. i, 62. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
302
s t o i c   e p i s t e m o l o g y
Not surprisingly, then, a good deal of the e◊ort of the Stoics, beginning with Zeno, was devoted to the definition of cognitive impressions and to the defence of this definition.7 Our sources attribute to the Stoics a number  of  formulations  by  means  of  which  they  try  to  define  cognitive impressions.  Closer  inspection  shows  that  all  this  variety  reduces  to  a shorter  and  a  longer  version  of  one  definition,  versions  which  di◊er  in that  the  longer  version  adds  a  further  clause  to  the  two  clauses  of  the shorter version. According to the shorter version, an impression is cognitive if:
(i) it comes about from what is (α0πο' του4 υ/πα!ρχοντο), and
(ii) it is formed in exact accordance with what is.8
The longer version adds the further clause
(iii) (it is) such as it would not come about from what is not.9
Let us first consider the shorter version. The first clause raises two questions: what is the precise force of 'it comes about from . . .' and what is meant by 'what is'? A natural understanding of the phrase 'what is' is that it refers to a real object, rather than a figment of the mind, which produces an  impression  on  us.  This  is  how  Sextus  understands  it  at  times,  for instance  M  vii.249, where he is explaining the Stoic definition of a cognitive  impression.  And  this  is  how  many  modern  authors  translate  and understand the clause in the di◊erent texts in which it is mentioned. 
But  the  expression  'what  is'  ( huparchon)  also  has  a  technical  use  in Stoicism. Since the Stoics assume that only bodies exist (are  onta), they will  say  for  instance  of  the  present  time,  though  not  of  the  past  or  the future, that it is  huparchon. And similarly they will say that, whereas a false proposition merely subsists ( huphistanei), a true proposition or fact also huparchei. Thus the point of the first clause would be, not that a cognitive impression has its origin in a real object, but in a fact. For the impression that A is F to be cognitive it must have its origin in the fact that A is F. 
This is how Cicero at least at times understands the phrase (cf.  Acad. 
ii.112).  This  is  how  Sextus  himself  understands  the  expression  in   M
vii.402 ◊. when he reports Carneades' criticism of the third clause of the definition,  thus  suggesting  that  Carneades  had  already  understood  the phrase in this way. Here Heracles' impression that his children are those of Eurystheus is treated as an impression from what is not, though Sextus at the same time emphasizes that the impression has its origin in Heracles'
7 Cf. Frede 1983. 
8 D.L. vii.46; Sextus  M  xi.183; cf. Cicero  Acad. ii.77. 
9 Cicero  Acad. ii.77; D.L. vii.50; Sextus  M  vii.248;  PH  ii.4. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
c o g n i t i v e   i m p r e s s i o n s
303
own children which stand in front of him. So there is a real thing which gives rise to the impression, namely Heracles' children; nevertheless the impression is not counted as one from what is. What is more, there is at least one passage in Sextus ( M  viii.85-6) in which he explicitly tells us that the sense of ' huparchon', as it is used in the definition of cognitive impressions, is precisely the sense in which (according to the Stoics) a true proposition is what is the case. Moreover the phrase occurs in all three clauses, and  it  would  be  desirable  to  have  a  uniform  interpretation  of  it  for  all three clauses. But in the third clause the sense of 'real object' is much too weak,  and  ancient  authors  uniformly  take  the  expression  in  the  third clause to refer to what is, or rather what is not, the case.10 Hence, on balance, we should take the reference to be to what is the case, rather than to a real object. This conclusion makes good sense in terms of our considerations concerning cognition. In the case of cognition we have the belief or the impression which we have precisely because this is the way things are. 
This will also explain the sense in which the impression, if it is cognitive, has  come  about  from  what  is.  For  we  can  explain  the  'because'  in  our account of cognition by specifying the connection which is such that it is because A is F that we have the impression or think that A is F. The connection might, for instance, be the one in which we stand to the fact that this object is green, if we perceive this object under normal conditions. 
We shall not worry that, given the Stoic notion of a cause, a fact, not being a body, cannot cause anything, whereas a real object can. For we should not rashly commit ourselves to the view that the connection to be specified has to be a simple causal connection. And, in any case, Sextus explicitly attributes to the Stoics the view that a true proposition, or what is the case, does move us to have a cognitive impression. 
It  is  still  somewhat  disconcerting  that  the  definition  of  cognitive impressions, given that it plays such a crucial rule, hence surely was carefully formulated and, in any case, retained throughout the history of the school, should involve this kind of ambiguity, referring either to an object or to a fact about an object. But there is a possible explanation for this ambiguity. It is crucial for the Stoic theory that children, from the time of their birth, receive impressions which the Stoics are willing to call 'cognitive', though  they di◊er significantly from  the cognitive impressions  of mature  human  beings.  Since  children  on  the  Stoic  view  do  not  have minds, they are not sensitive to facts, nor can they form impressions with propositional content. Their cognitive impressions are brought about by 10 See Cicero  Acad. ii.77-8; 112; Sextus  M  vii.152, 252. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
304
s t o i c   e p i s t e m o l o g y
an object which the impression faithfully represents without having the internal articulation which would allow it to present the object as being something or other: it can represent a green book, but not a book as being green. Hence it is possible that the definition was deliberately formulated so as to cover both kinds of impressions, it being understood that it will refer to objects or the absence of them when we talk about the impressions of mindless children, but to facts or states-of-a◊airs which do not obtain when we talk about the impressions of rational beings. 
Let  us  turn  to  the  second  clause.  One  thing  which  the  second  clause clearly requires is that the impressions be formed in accordance with the fact. It is easy to see why this would be required. If one were temporarily colour-blind in such a way as to see green things as red and red things as green,  one  might  have  the  impression  that  the  object  is  red  precisely because the object is green. The impression would have its origins in a fact in the sense required by the first clause and thus would satisfy the first condition. But clearly this would not be a cognitive impression. Hence we require that an impression, in order to be cognitive, also be in accord with the fact which gives rise to it, in the sense that it represents A as being F, if A is F, in other words that it be true. Now this by itself trivially guarantees truth, but it does not guarantee cognitivity. We might, for instance, have an instrument which is supposed to discriminate between things which are F and things which are not F, and to signal things which are F. But the machine does not work properly and hence, instead, signals things which are not F. Moreover, we might mistakenly believe that the machine is supposed to signal things which are not F. Hence, on a certain occasion, given that it does not signal A's being F, we correctly have the impression that A is F, precisely because A is F. But this impression can hardly be said to be cognitive; for it rests on two mistakes which just happen to cancel each other out. So we would expect the further detail of the second clause to refer to a particular feature of the impression which is supposed to guarantee its cognitivity. 
An impression is not completely characterized by its propositional content: there is a lot more detail to it. You may, for instance, have an impression with the propositional content that this book is green. Though the propositional content remains the same, the impression may vary considerably. It will, for instance, vary depending on whether you actually see the book or have the impression for some other reason. And when you actually see the book, the impression may still vary considerably depending  on  the  conditions  under  which  you  see  it.  When,  for  instance,  you clearly see the book from nearby, you have one kind of impression, but as Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
c o g n i t i v e   i m p r e s s i o n s
305
you move away from the book and come to a point where you can barely make out that it is a book and that it is green, your impression, though still an impression that this book is green, surely is quite di◊erent from the one you have when you see the book clearly in front of you. All these impressions represent the same propositional content, but they di◊er in the way they represent it. The Stoics are evidently seeking in these further details which cognitive impressions o◊er a further mark of their cognitivity. To identify this further mark, we need to look at the second clause more closely. 
There are two further details to the second clause which we have not exploited so far. The clause refers to the way the impression is formed by using verbs like 'seal', 'imprint', 'stamp';11 and it insists that the impression be formed in exact or precise accord with the fact. Obviously, without a good deal of explanation not much can be made of these details. And unfortunately  our  main  source  of  explanations  is  the  passage  in  Sextus ( M  vii.249-52),  which  not  only  goes  on  the  assumption  that  the  clause demands correspondence with a real object rather than a fact, but also is at variance with the other major source of information concerning these further  details,  namely  Cicero   Acad.  i.42.  Finally,  caution  seems  indicated, because Sextus' account, at least as it is often read, makes an assumption which  seems  rather  implausible,  namely  that  the  impression  is  in  exact accord  with  the  object  by  representing  it  with  all  of  its  features.  This seems to be an incredibly strong assumption, especially given that not all of  an  object's  features  are  perceptual  features,  and  that  we  would  not expect an auditory impression, for instance, to represent the visual features of an object. 
An impression might be in accord with a fact in two ways. It might, for instance, be in accord with the fact that this book is green by being a representation  of  this  green  book.  After  all,  the  Stoics  attribute  cognitive impressions to children in their pre-rational state, when their impressions do  not  yet  have  propositional  structure.  But  standardly,  in  the  case  of mature human beings, a cognitive impression will accord with the fact by representing this book and by representing it as being green. There are di◊erent  ways  of  representing  the  book  as  being  green,  depending  on whether one uses the common notion of green or some other notion, for instance a notion which is more articulate than the common notion. But, if we keep in mind that we are quite ready to say that we represent the book's being green in terms of the concept 'green', it is obvious that the 11 Cf. D.L. vii.50;  Acad. ii.77. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
306
s t o i c   e p i s t e m o l o g y
main di◊erences will depend on the way the object, rather than its being green, is represented. And, given that, we will be able after all to draw on the information supplied by Sextus in  M  vii.249-52, who assumes that a cognitive  impression  is  characterized  by  its  exact  representation  of  the object; what is more, given that this information is relevant to the understanding of the second clause, we can have some confidence that Sextus is drawing on Stoic doctrine, even if he is mistaken or confused about the sense of 'what is'. 
The question is: how could an impression be not only in accord with the fact but in precise accord with the fact? Let us take the impression that this  (a  book  which  I  see)  is  green.  The  impression  will  represent  this object, and it will represent it as being green. That is why it is an impression to the e◊ect that this is green. Now the object might be represented in one's impression in more or less detail. It might, for instance, be represented in such detail that its precise colour is represented. But its representation might also involve a set of characteristic features of an object. 
The Stoics assume that each object has a set of characteristic and distinctive features. And these produce a characteristic look which is constituted by a set of characteristic visual features. So in the case of a visual impression an impression might be in precise accord with the fact that this is green if it represents the object in such a way as to fully and precisely capture its characteristic visual features and its colour. 
On this interpretation we see the point of the verbs in the second clause of  the  definition  to  emphasize  that,  with  a  cognitive  impression,  the object is faithfully represented in all its characteristic and relevant detail. 
With a proper seal we do not expect each and every feature of the seal-ring to be captured in the seal-wax, but we do expect the characteristic and identifying features to be fully stamped in. Without this we would still have  an  imprint  of  the  seal-ring,  but  not  a  seal  which  left  no  room  for doubt as to its identity. 
This talk about imprints and stamps should not mislead us into conceiving of an impression in the manner which Chrysippus tried to rectify when he suggested that 'impression' ( tupo-sis) should not be taken literally (D.L. vii.50). We should not assume that, for instance, in the case of perception under normal conditions the object we see will automatically produce an impression in us which, among other things, represents it with its distinctive features in the way a seal-ring will, if properly used, produce the appropriate seal. Though the Stoics do think of impressions as passive a◊ections, this should not obscure the fact that rational impressions are formed in the mind and that the mind is involved in their formation. After Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
c o g n i t i v e   i m p r e s s i o n s
307
all,  rational  impressions,  impressions  with  a  propositional  content, involve the use of notions or concepts in representing something as being a certain way. They thus not only presuppose a mind which can form such impressions: they are also sensitive to the characteristics of the particular mind  involved.  For  di◊erent  minds  have  di◊erent  notions  available  to them  and  apply  the  same  notions  in  di◊erent  ways,  given  their  further beliefs. The way this is relevant here is this: if we have not learnt to discriminate a certain object, for instance a particular egg (as opposed to having learnt to discriminate a certain kind of object, for instance eggs), so as to be able to distinguish this egg from all other objects and thus also from all other eggs, we will not necessarily have a cognitive impression that this egg is green, however well developed our sensory apparatus is, and however much the other normal conditions for perception may be met. One should also note in this context that the first two clauses of the definition do not say what on certain interpretations we would expect them to say. 
They refrain from saying that the cognitive impression is impressed on us by the object or the fact. It rather is said to be formed in accordance with the fact. Indeed, it is formed in the mind and in some way by the mind rather than by the object. This becomes clear even from Sextus' account in M  vii.250. Here, as elsewhere, we are told that the cognitive impression is formed artfully ( techniko-s). This does not mean that the object has an art which allows it to produce a cognitive impression of itself. It rather means that  the  soul  or  the  mind  has  an  ability  to  form  impressions  of  objects which are faithful to these objects in their crucial detail. This competence or ability to discriminate can be enhanced by learning and training. As a result we can come to be able to perceptually discriminate things we originally  were  unable  to  distinguish.  So  rational  impressions,  the  impressions of mature human beings, though a matter of receptivity, involve the mind and reflect the particular mind's disposition, for instance its ability to discriminate. 
Sextus, in fact, seems to claim that in a cognitive impression the object is represented with all its features ( M  vii.251), if we assume that ' idio-mata'
here means 'features' or 'characteristics'. But it is di√cult to see how, for instance, a visual impression could or should represent an object with all its  features,  for  instance  its  olfactory  characteristics.  Hence  in  Cicero, Acad. i.42, we find the more modest claim that a cognitive impression generated by means of a certain sense will represent all the features which fall within  the  range  of  what  can  be  discriminated  through  this  sense.  But even this seems too strong. For, surely, even if we see an object under ideal conditions, we do not necessarily see all the minute visual detail we would Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
308
s t o i c   e p i s t e m o l o g y
see, for instance, if we saw it from so close up that we no longer could see the  object  as  a  whole  properly,  that  is  to  say,  if  a  normal  condition  on proper vision were violated. So perhaps we should not assume that Sextus means to say that the cognitive impression represents the object with all its features, but should rather understand the term ' idio-ma'  which he uses in this context ( M  vii.248, 250, 251) in the sense of 'characteristic' or 'distinctive feature', rather than in the sense of 'feature' taken quite generally. 
From  Sextus'  explanation  in   M  vii.251  we  can  add  a  further  requirement, which we might have guessed anyway, namely that these features themselves are to be represented precisely ( akribes). Thus, if we think that it is part of the characteristic look of this book that it looks like a book and that it looks green, then the impression should be such as we would have if  we  clearly  and  unambiguously  recognized  it  to  be  a  book  and  to  be green. With this in mind we can say that the second clause demands that a cognitive visual impression to the e◊ect that this object is green should be such  as  to  represent  this  object  in  a  way  which  perfectly  and  unequivocally matches its characteristic look and its colour, and moreover such as to present it as being green. 
When we now turn to the third clause: '(it is) such as it would not come about from what is not', it is important to briefly consider the relation between the longer and the shorter version of the definition. It is clear that the shorter version continued to be used even after the longer version had been introduced. This strongly suggests that, at least from the Stoic point of view, the third clause does not add a further restriction on what is to count as a cognitive impression, but just makes explicit a feature of all impressions which satisfy the first two conditions. In fact, the Greek of the  third  clause  is  most  naturally  understood  in  such  a  way  that  'such'
does  not  refer  to  a  further  feature,  introduced  but  not  specified  by  the third clause, but refers back to the character ascribed to cognitive impressions in the first and the second clauses, presumably more specifically to the character ascribed to cognitive impressions in the second clause. The point would be this: impressions which satisfy the first two clauses have a certain character; the third clause tells us that an impression which has this character cannot possibly have its origin in what is not. I take this to be a way of saying that an impression which has this character cannot possibly be false. This understanding of the relation between the longer and the shorter version seems to be confirmed by Sextus and by Cicero. Sextus explains that the Stoics only added the further clause in response to an Academic objection based on an assumption which the Stoics themselves do not share, namely the assumption that two objects might be exactly Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
c o g n i t i v e   i m p r e s s i o n s
309
alike and hence indiscernible ( M  vii.252). Cicero tentatively suggests the same, adding that it was Arcesilaus who prompted Zeno to add the third clause  ( Acad.  ii.77).  Thus  the  third  clause  is  supposed  to  o◊er  merely  a clarification which, on the Stoic view, does not go beyond what is already stated or implied by the first two clauses. 
It will help if we consider Arcesilaus' objection. It seems that Arcesilaus argued  that  two  objects,  say  two  eggs  or  two  grains  of  sand,  might  be exactly alike, or at least so much alike as to be indiscernible. And, on the basis of this, he seems to have argued that the shorter definition, or at least its second clause, is guaranteed to be inadequate, since it will be satisfied by certain false impressions, but that the longer definition, though in virtue of its third clause it manages to rule out false impressions, does so only at the price of ruling out all impressions. For, however strong conditions an impression may meet, there always can be an impression exactly like it which is false, or which fails to have its origin in what is. So on the shorter version, according to Arcesilaus, cognitive impressions do not form a distinct  class  of  impressions,  and  on  the  longer  version  they  do  not  exist. 
This, roughly, is how Cicero presents the matter. 
Unfortunately the precise way in which Arcesilaus is supposed to bring the case of possible indiscernibles to bear on the definition of cognitive impressions is far from clear. Their relevance is spelled out by Cicero  Acad. 
ii.  84-5,  in  this  way.  Suppose  you  see  Cotta  under  ideal  conditions  and you form the correct impression that this is Cotta. But suppose also that, unknown to you, Cotta has an exact look-alike, Geminus. So it can happen that you actually see Geminus under ideal conditions, but, not surprisingly, you now form the false impression that this is Cotta. 
There are two ways to interpret this. One is that Arcesilaus understands the 'what is' in the shorter definition to refer not to the fact, but to the object,  and  that  he  argues  that,  given  the  indiscernibility  of  Cotta  and Geminus, the false impression that this is Cotta satisfies the first two conditions as well as the true impression that this is Geminus. For it, too, has its origin in a real object (we actually see Geminus), and it does represent this object with as much faithfulness as we wish. It nevertheless is false and  hence  not  cognitive.  In  fact,  the  two  impressions,  taken  by  themselves,  will  be  exactly  alike,  and  hence  each  of  them,  including  the  one which is true, taken by itself, will be compatible with two mutually exclusive states of a◊airs. To which Zeno is supposed to answer by denying that Cotta and Geminus are indiscernible, but also by adding the further clause to  make  explicit  that  the  impression  that  this  is  Cotta  which  we  form when we see Cotta under the appropriate conditions will be unlike any Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
310
s t o i c   e p i s t e m o l o g y
impression we form when we do not see Cotta. We cannot rule out the possibility that Zeno himself originally understood his shorter definition in such a way as to invite this objection, because he still thought of the impression primarily as an imprint which an object leaves on us, such that two indiscernible objects would produce the same impression. But it also may be the case that Arcesilaus referred to pairs of indiscernibles just to challenge  the  second  clause  of  the  definition,  because  this  clause  was understood by the Stoics in a certain way. It seems that the Stoics assumed that, given the way a cognitive impression comes about, it represents the object with a faithfulness which an impression which does not come about in this way, and hence  a fortiori  an impression which does not have its origin in a fact, cannot possibly match. The second clause insists on this kind of faithfulness. The possibility that we are presented with a pair of indiscernibles would show that however faithful an impression is to the object, this does not rule out the possibility that it is false. Zeno's answer to this, on this interpretation, would be to deny that there are indiscernibles, but to make explicit in a third clause that the kind of faithfulness to the object attributed to cognitive impressions by the second clause is incompatible with its being false, with its failing to have its origin in a fact. 
In  any  case,  the  Stoic  response  to  the  Academic  claim  that  there  are indiscernibles and that hence there might be no di◊erence between the cognitive impression that this is Cotta which we have when we clearly see Cotta and the impression that this is Cotta when we clearly see Geminus is based on two assumptions: (i) there are no indiscernibles, and (ii) the impressions we form are sensitive to our state of mind such that, if we have  learnt  to  discriminate  Cotta,  the  cognitive  impression  which  we have of  Cotta  cannot  possibly  be  like  the  impression  which  we  have  of Geminus. The first assumption is not  ad hoc, but supported by Stoic physics and Stoic metaphysics. The Academics will not accept it, but at least the  Stoic  position  remains  defensible.  The  second  assumption  raises  a problem. Suppose one first sees Cotta under normal conditions and forms the cognitive impression that this is Cotta. But then one sees Geminus, and, because one is confused or even temporarily deranged, one forms an impression of Geminus that he is Cotta which presents Geminus precisely with  the  characteristic  features  of  Cotta.  The  two  impressions  will  be exactly alike, even if it is the case that Cotta and Geminus are discernible. 
The Academics consider more dramatic versions of this sort of case. 
There is Orestes who in his madness takes Electra, though she is standing in full sight of him, to be a Fury (Sextus  M  vii.249). There is the case of Heracles who in his madness takes his children, though they are standing Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
c o g n i t i v e   i m p r e s s i o n s
311
clearly in front of him, to be the children of Eurystheus ( M  vii.406). What is  characteristic  of  these  cases  is  that  the  perceiving  subject  with  one exception sees the object under ideal conditions. Barring the exception, the subject should have a cognitive impression. But the subject does not have a cognitive impression, because he is temporarily deranged, and this drastically interferes with the formation of the impression in such a way as to, for instance, give Heracles the impression that these are Eurystheus'
children. Now this can only be so if in his impression Heracles represents his own children with features of Eurystheus' children. But, if this is possible,  it  should  also  be  possible  that  Heracles,  precisely  because  of  his heightened  imagination  in  this  deranged  state,  represents  his  children with precisely the distinctive features of Eurystheus' children. Hence he will have, it is argued, an impression which is indistinguishable from the impression he would have if he saw Eurystheus' children under normal conditions. But in this case his having the impression is compatible with two possible states of the world, one in which Heracles is sane and these in fact are Eurystheus' children, and one in which he is insane and what is in front of him is something else. The Stoic answer to this is that the impression, taken in itself, under normal conditions has a distinctive character which can never be matched by an impression formed by a subject in an abnormal state. 
So the Stoic claim is that nothing but a fact can produce an impression which  has  precisely  the  character  of  a  cognitive  impression,  that  an impression of this character cannot possibly be the product of dreaming, hallucination, derangement or any other non-normal or abnormal mental state. Indeed, they claim that not even the gods can (or will) produce such an impression in us in the absence of the corresponding fact (Cic.  Acad. 
ii.50). Again, this is not an  ad hoc  claim, though, needless to say, it will not be accepted by the Academics. As we saw, the Stoics insist that great art is involved  in  the  formation  of  cognitive  impressions.  They  involve  the mind's readiness to perform a highly delicate task which involves its complete  attention  and  concentration.  A  sleeping  or  even  sleepy  mind,  a deranged or intoxicated mind, will not be able to perform such a delicate task. Moreover, Stoic physics allows for the assumption that impressions bear the mark of how they have come about. We also have to take into account that the Stoics, given their belief in providence, can argue that nature, if it means us to have cognition and knowledge, can most simply arrange for this by supplying us with impressions with a distinctive character which reflects the way they come about, which, in turn, guarantees their truth. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
312
s t o i c   e p i s t e m o l o g y
iv Clearness, distinctness, evidence
Cicero tells us ( Acad. i.41) that a cognitive impression is supposed to have a distinctive way of making those things clear ( declarare) which it presents as being the case. The question is what this distinctive character may be. 
As  already  noted,  the  'such'  in  the  third  clause  may  refer  to  a  further, though  unspecified,  feature  which  all  cognitive  impressions  have  and which distinguishes them from all non-cognitive impressions; or it may refer  to  a  feature  which  all  impressions  satisfying  the  first  two  clauses have,  and  which  the  third  clause  claims  an  impression  would  not  have unless it had its origin in a fact in such a way as to be itself guaranteed to be true.  Given  that  the  third  clause  is  treated  as  merely  clarificatory  and redundant, and given the Greek of the third clause, we should assume that this distinctive character is not a further feature, but one already implied by the first two clauses. And since, given the Academic counter-examples, it should be an internal feature of the impression which no non-cognitive impression can match, it should be a feature implied by the second clause. 
If we consider D.L. vii.46 it seems fairly clear that the feature we are looking for is the clarity and distinctness of cognitive impressions, and that this  feature  is  supposed  to  be  crucially  involved  in  their  representing something in precise accordance with the fact. In D.L. vii.46 we first get the two clause definition of cognitive impressions. We then get a corresponding definition of a non-cognitive impression as one which does not satisfy the first clause or which, even if it satisfies the first clause, does not satisfy the second clause. And this is glossed by saying 'the one which is not  clear  ( trane-s)  nor  distinct  ( ektupos)'.  This  strongly  suggests  that impressions are clear and distinct by being in precise accordance with the fact, and that this is the feature to which the third clause refers. This is not the place to discuss whether clarity and distinctness are two separate features, as the 'nor' might suggest. What seems to be demanded is this: the relevant features of the object which a cognitive impression represents are represented in such a way that this representation could not be the representation of some other features, and that they jointly constitute a distinctive representation of the object, that is, a representation which captures a set of jointly distinctive features of the object, for instance its distinctive look. This corresponds to the fact that a seal may be deficient in two ways: it may lack some of the features which would make it identifiable as this rather than that seal, or it may have all the features, but some not with su√cient  clarity  to  make  it  identifiable  as  this  rather  than  that  seal. 
Cognitive impressions are unambiguously identifiable as impressions of Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
a s s e n t   t o   c o g n i t i v e   i m p r e s s i o n s 313
the  object  they  are  an  impression  of,  and  as  representations  of  the  fact which gives rise to them. And the claim is that an impression will be clear and distinct in this way only, if it has its origin in a fact in such a way that the manner in which it comes about guarantees its truth. 
Cognitive impressions are also characterized in other ways, for instance as striking or vivid ( ple-ktikos, Sextus  M  vii.403). I shall comment on one of these characterizations, namely the claim that they are  enarge-s (cf.  ibid.), a term  rendered  by  Cicero  as  ' evidens'  or  ' perspicuum'  ( Acad.  ii i.17).  To understand this, we have to take into account that in Greek one can call something which clearly and exactly looks like an ox an 'obvious' or 'evident' ox. This does not commit one to the view that an evident ox actually is an ox. It might be a god taking on the appearance of an ox. But as a matter of Stoic physics the Stoics believe that nothing but Socrates can have the distinctive look of Socrates, and that nothing but an ox can have the distinctive look of an ox, that is to say the characteristic and jointly distinctive visual features of an ox. Now a visual cognitive impression of an object, being clear and distinct, will represent the object clearly with its characteristic  and  distinctive  look.  Hence  such  impressions  themselves also are called 'evident'. For a Stoic, then, their evidence will guarantee their truth. But for an Academic evidence will not guarantee truth for the simple  reason  that,  even  if  there  is  something  which  looks  exactly  like Socrates, it might be something else. If nothing else, for the Academics the possible indiscernibility will guarantee this. 
v Assent to cognitive impressions
Now, even if we grant that we do have cognitive impressions, this will be of little help, unless we can also come to acquire a disposition in which we unfailingly  give  assent  only  to  cognitive  impressions.  The  fact  that  the Stoics talk of cognitive impressions as having a distinctive character and as being the criterion of truth might mislead us into thinking that on the Stoic view this, at least in principle, is rather an easy matter. Since cognitive impressions have a distinctive character, we just have to determine which of our impressions are cognitive and then give assent to them. But it is obvious that in practice this is such a di√cult task that even the Stoics themselves do not claim to have achieved it. And it is clear why in principle it would be a more di√cult task than at first might appear. The very fact that cognitive impressions are supposed to be criteria raises a problem.  In  trying  to  find  out  whether  an  impression  is  cognitive,  one  can check the conditions under which one has formed it. And, having satisfied Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
314
s t o i c   e p i s t e m o l o g y
oneself  that  it  came  about  under  normal  conditions,  one  can  conclude that it must be cognitive and hence accept it. But, though one can do this, this cannot be how the Stoics think that cognitive impressions play the role intended for them in their theory. For in this case our acceptance of them is based on the assumption that we have su√cient evidence for their cognitivity.  This  assumption  can  be  questioned.  And  any  evidence  we produce in support of it can in turn be questioned. So we seem to fall into an infinite regress precisely of the kind which we tried to avoid by introducing cognitions and cognitive impressions in the first place. We also can check our impressions against our beliefs, and accept them if they seem true in the light of our beliefs. But, again, to do this is to appeal to further evidence to determine the cognitivity of our impressions. And this evidence in principle will be as questionable as the cognitivity of the impressions, and hence questioning the evidence will again lead to a regress. 
Now we might assume that the Stoics think that we do not look for evidence outside the impression in question, but rather for the distinguishing  mark  of  cognitive  impressions,  for  something  like  evidence  or clearness and distinctness, and that, having spotted it, we infer that the impression must be cognitive and hence true. But one may object that one can also question whether an impression in fact has this distinctive mark. 
In response one might be tempted to assume that the Stoics must think that we can infallibly recognize the distinguishing mark. But there is no evidence that the Stoics do believe this. And, given that there is a great deal of evidence for the Stoic doctrine concerning cognitive impressions, it would be surprising if such a crucial assumption were never referred to. 
It also would be, philosophically, a desperate assumption to make. And, if it had been made, it would be very di√cult to explain why knowledge and wisdom are supposed to be so di√cult to attain. Finally, though cognitive impressions do have a distinctive character, this should not be understood to mean that cognitive impressions bear on their face, as it were, an easily recognizable mark of their cognitivity. The distinctive character of cognitive impressions is not a feature an impression has over and above its representing a particular fact in a certain way, and thus its presence cannot be determined independently of determining whether it exhibits this manner of representation. 
So the Stoics must assume that cognitive impressions, having a distinct character, are such that we can immediately recognize them as such and do not have to depend on further evidence to determine their cognitivity. 
In any case, the Stoic view does not seem to be that we have some myster-ious  ability  to  infallibly  recognize  cognitive  impressions  as  such,  and Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
a s s e n t   t o   c o g n i t i v e   i m p r e s s i o n s 315
Stoic theory does not require the postulation of such an ability. All that it requires  is  that  we  can  learn  to  get  so  good  at  recognizing  cognitive impressions that we always get it right. In each case there is the possibility that we could get it wrong, but it is not by good luck that we do not, but because our ability has been so developed that we are able to successfully deal  with  each  case  we  encounter.  To  make  this  assumption  is  not  to assume some infallible cognitive faculty. 
Now, to say that we are able to recognize cognitive impressions as such can be understood in two ways. It can be understood to mean that we are able to make a correct judgement concerning the cognitivity of an impression and, on the basis of this judgement, give assent to the impression. 
But it also can be understood to mean that we are sensitive to the cognitivity of an impression, that there is an internal mechanism which registers and scans impressions and which is able to discriminate between cognitive and non-cognitive impressions so that, if it discriminates an impression as cognitive, we give assent without forming the judgement that the impression is cognitive. We might have a sense for cognitivity in this latter way. Nevertheless, we could assume that this sense can be developed and perfected, if we assume that it is also sensitive to our beliefs. 
There  is  some  reason  to  think  that  the  Stoics  at  least  sometimes thought along the lines of such a mechanism. They certainly must have assumed that children possess such a mechanism to sort cognitive from non-cognitive impressions. For they claim that children are endowed by nature with an impulse towards cognitions (Cic.  Fin. iii.17). It is easy to see why. According to the Stoics, it is these cognitions which give rise to the so-called natural notions or anticipations, concepts which are faithful to  the  distinctive  character  of  the  things  which  fall  under  them.  The acquisition of a su√cient set of notions of this kind is supposed to amount to the acquisition of reason. Now the privileged epistemic status of these concepts depends on the fact that they are based on cognitive impressions or cognitions. Hence children, to acquire reason, must be able to sort cognitive  from  non-cognitive  impressions.  And  to  do  this,  they  obviously cannot resort to judgement and inference, since  ex hypothesi  they do not yet have reason. And it also is clear that children accept those impressions which they sort as cognitive. Otherwise they would not have cognitions. 
So there is not just a primitive non-rational version of cognitive impressions  in  children,  but  also  a  primitive  non-rational  version  of  assent, which is supposed to follow if an impression is recognized as cognitive. 
Now, as to mature rational human beings the Stoics observe that when we get a perceptual impression of something which is of interest to us, but Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
316
s t o i c   e p i s t e m o l o g y
the impression does not seem satisfactory, we, as it were, instinctively rub our eyes, move closer or further away, try to provide more light etc., that is to say try to establish normal conditions to see properly (Sextus  M  vii.259). 
This would suggest that there is a mechanism which not only is sensitive to the cognitivity of an impression, but also can tell on the basis of the character of the impression, in which way the impression is deficient, and which can set us in motion in the appropriate way to obtain further impressions till it receives an impression which it deems satisfactory. And assent may be no more than this acceptance as satisfactory. In any case, we here have the idea of a highly sophisticated sensitivity to the cognitivity of impressions. 
Now this sensitivity is in many ways a◊ected by beliefs. It is adequate for the rather simple impressions children have. But, as soon as we have concepts, we can form extremely complex impressions and acquire highly complex  beliefs.  To  the  extent  that  we  learn  to  discriminate  between di◊erent particular objects, di◊erent kinds of objects, and di◊erent features of objects, and acquire true beliefs about them, it also will be easier to learn to discriminate between the corresponding impressions; but to the extent that we also acquire false beliefs, it will be more di√cult. We may fail to recognize an impression as cognitive, because it is incompatible with what we wrongly think we know for certain. Since it is the mind which forms even perceptual impressions, and since the mind in forming impressions is influenced by its state, including its beliefs, its false beliefs may make it di√cult for it to form cognitive impressions. In any case, its impressions  will  reflect  its  false  beliefs.  So  it  is  obvious  how  we  can improve and perfect our sensitivity to cognitive impressions. We have to attend to our impressions, we have to eliminate our false beliefs, and we have to learn what the things we are concerned with are like and how they di◊er from other things, and look at our impressions carefully in the light of this. In the end we will have a reliable sense for whether an impression is cognitive and give assent to precisely those impressions which are cognitive. This is what Boethus had in mind, when he said that right reason is the criterion (D.L. vii.54). If we have a perfected reason we will have a reliable sense for which impressions are cognitive.12
vi The criteria
If we follow the Stoics up to this point, we have cognitive impressions and we  can  learn  to  discriminate  between  cognitive  and  non-cognitive 12 Cf. Kidd 1989. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   c r i t e r i a
317
impressions in such a way as to give assent to cognitive impressions. So, having cognitions, we will be on safe ground. And having only cognitions, we will have knowledge. The question is whether and how with just this knowledge we will be able to attain wisdom. To answer this question we have to look more closely at the kinds of cognition which we have available to us. 
It is clear that, if there are any cognitions at all, then perceptual cognitions will be among them. It is because we are prepared to accept that it is not a matter of mere opinion if we think that the book is green when we see it clearly in front of us, that the notion of cognition seems promising in the first place. So one class of cognitions we have available to us are perceptual  cognitions.  Indeed,  Cicero,  having  reported  that  Zeno  introduced  the  notion  of  cognition  and  discussed  our  assent  to  cognitive impressions, goes on to tell us that he then singled out perceptual cognitions as a class of cognitions we can rely on ( Acad. i.42). What is more, Zeno is supposed to have identified perceptual cognitions as a criterion. 
This fits the testimony in D.L. vii.54, according to which Chrysippus claimed that perception constitutes a criterion. But it creates a problem, because it seems to conflict with other evidence. In many places we are told that according to the Stoics cognitive impressions constitute the criterion.  This  view  is  attributed  to  Chrysippus  (D.L.  vii.54).  And  hence Chrysippus is accused of inconsistency in sometimes claiming that cognitive impressions are the criterion and sometimes saying that perception is a criterion. What is more, Zeno also must have said that cognitions quite generally are the criterion (Sextus  M  vii.153). Now to make sense of this apparent conflict we have to assume two things, (i) that there is a shift in the use of the term 'criterion', and (ii) that in discussing knowledge and its attainability  in  general  the  Stoics  talk  about  cognitions  and  cognitive impressions quite generally, whereas when they go into the details of how we attain knowledge they distinguish between perceptual cognition and anticipations, that is to say the intellectual cognitions involved in the possession of anticipatory concepts. 
As to the shift in use, when Zeno introduces cognition as the criterion it is in the context of an argument to the e◊ect that no argument based on premisses which we hold to be true as a matter of mere belief will lead to knowledge.  Here  cognition  is  a  criterion  in  the  sense  that  it  is  a  belief which is not held as a matter of mere opinion, and hence can be used to judge the truth of further beliefs. But when we turn to the question of how any beliefs, including cognitive beliefs, can be judged to be true or false, the answer will be 'in virtue of cognitive impressions'. This shift in Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
318
s t o i c   e p i s t e m o l o g y
the use of 'criterion' is not surprising, given that philosophers were using the term in a number of related ways. Once we take this into account, it is easy to make sense of the variety of things di◊erent Stoics according to D.L. vii.54 are prepared to call a criterion. If, for instance, we make cognition the criterion in one sense, we can also make right reason the criterion in a di◊erent use of the term. 
Now, in saying that cognitive impressions or cognition or perfected or right reason are the criterion, we do not yet address the question how we attain the complex knowledge which is wisdom. In order to do this, we now distinguish di◊erent kinds of cognition. And we first single out perceptual cognition as one criterion. We do so for at least three reasons. (i) If one is willing to admit any kind of cognition, one will admit perceptual cognition. (ii) Perceptual cognition, or perceptual cognitive impressions, are supposed to be the basis on which we develop the so-called natural or common  notions  or  anticipations  which  constitute  a  further  criterion. 
(iii) There is an obvious parallel with Epicureanism which similarly postulates perceptions as a criterion. 
We  can  now  discuss  a  crucial  di◊erence  between  the  Stoic  and  the Epicurean  position,  which  might  be  overlooked  given  their  striking superficial similarity. Epicureans take perceptions in the sense of sense-impressions to be criterial. This commits them to the view that all sense-impressions are true. This position the Epicureans try to defend by saying that often what we take to be a sense-impression actually is a combination of sense-impression and mere belief. So we have to learn to distinguish in our impressions what is the product of sense and what is the result of an activity of the mind, a task analogous to the task of distinguishing cognitive from non-cognitive impressions. The Stoics, by contrast, assume that there are false sense-impressions and hence distinguish sense-impressions and perceptual impressions, restricting perceptual impressions not just to true impressions, but to cognitive impressions, that is to say to impressions which are guaranteed to be true. And they also assume that, at least in  the  case  of  mature  human  beings,  even  perceptual  impressions  are thoughts formed in and by the mind. So, if the Stoics like the Epicureans claim that perceptions are criterial, their view, nevertheless, di◊ers quite substantially. But perceptual cognitions obviously do not su√ce for the kind of general knowledge which constitutes wisdom. And so the Stoics, again  like  the  Epicureans,  introduce  a  further  criterion,  anticipations ( prole-pseis). 
*
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   c r i t e r i a
319
Perception will give us knowledge of particular observable facts. To gain the truly general knowledge which constitutes wisdom we will have to rely on more than perception. To this purpose the Stoics, following the Epicureans,  introduce  the  notion  of  anticipations.13 Perhaps  they  are called anticipations because they are concepts which provide us with an antecedent general understanding or grasp of the things which as rational beings we perceive and think about, and which even in perceiving them we represent in terms of these notions. Already Zeno, having singled out perception as a criterion, went on to explain how these privileged notions provide  the  principles  on  the  basis  of  which  reason  can  derive  further truths (Cic.  Acad. i.42). We are not told that Zeno called them a criterion, but this is what Chrysippus (D.L. vii.54) and later Stoics did. 
It is easy to see how this is supposed to work. The mastery of a concept involves  certain  assumptions  about  the  items  to  which  one  applies  the concept. Traditionally one will think of these as being captured in a definition of the kind of item falling under the concept. To say that anticipations (or common or natural notions, as they are also called) are criterial is to say that these definitions and the assumptions involved in them have the status of cognitions. They can thus serve as a criterion to judge the truth of further beliefs. Since they are truly general, we can deduce further general  truths  from  them  as  principles.  These  theorems,  having  been deduced from cognitive assumptions, will themselves have the status of cognitions. In this way we arrive at whole bodies of such cognitions and thus at sciences, and in this way, ultimately, we will also arrive at that particular body of cognitions which constitutes wisdom. 
Now all this depends on the premiss that the assumptions involved in the  use  of  one  of  these  privileged  criterial  concepts  are  cognitions. 
Cognitions are beliefs which come about in a way which guarantees their truth. The further theorems will be cognitions, inasmuch as they have been deduced  from  principles  which  are  cognitions,  deduction  counting  as  a canonical  way  of  coming  about.  These  principles  are  cognitions  because they are just the assumptions one makes if one has these privileged concepts.  So  what  remains  to  be  shown  is  that  these  concepts,  and  thus  the assumptions involved in them, come about in such a way that their truth is guaranteed. And the Stoics set out to show this by trying to argue that by nature we are constructed in such a way as to form these notions on the basis  of  cognitive  impressions.  (This  is  why  they  are  also  called  natural 13 Cf. Sandbach 1930; Todd 1973; Schofield 1980b. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
320
s t o i c   e p i s t e m o l o g y
notions.) And because human beings are so constructed, anyone who grows up in a natural environment which provides him with the normal cognitive impressions, and who is not in some other way radically deprived, will form the same notions. (Hence they are also called common notions.) These notions, then, are supposed to owe their special epistemic status to the way they come about. What distinguishes them from other concepts, for instance technical concepts, is that natural concepts are not concepts we set out to form, shaping them to accord with our beliefs and our presumed needs. They rather come to us naturally. If one grows up in an environment  with  trees  and  camels,  one  will  naturally  end  up  with  a notion of a tree and a notion of a camel, without having set out to form them. The reason why this seems important is that, if we set out to form a concept,  this  formation  is  sensitive  to  our  beliefs  and  to  our  presumed interests. But we may make mistakes in the way we form a concept, our beliefs may be wrong, and we may be mistaken about our needs and interests. The formation of natural notions does not su◊er from this sort of interference. Also, natural notions, at least to begin with, just capture the common content of cognitive impressions. Given the guaranteed truth of these, the corresponding natural notions are guaranteed to be faithful to the  objects  of  which  the  cognitive  impressions  are  impressions.  When natural notions go beyond what we perceive, we note that their formation follows a certain simple natural pattern. If, on the basis of perception, we have the notion of a certain kind of perceptual feature, it is natural for us to form the notion of the opposite feature, even if we have never perceived it (cf. D.L. vii.53). That these patterns of formation are natural, i.e. that our  mind  is  by  nature  constructed  in  such  a  way  as  to  naturally  form notions in this way, we can see from the fact that all human beings seem to form these notions. 
Needless  to  say,  Academic  sceptics  were  not  impressed  by  this  view. 
But we have to keep in mind that Aristotle at the beginning of the  De interpretatione  takes a much stronger view when he claims that the a◊ection of the soul (that is, the notion in the mind) which corresponds to a meaningful  word  is  the  same  for  all  human  beings  across  di◊erent  languages. 
Similarly Plato seems to think that the way we conceive of things is at least guided  by  some  awareness  of  the  Platonic  ideas  which  define  the  right way to think about things. So the Stoics in this regard can at least appeal to a distinguished tradition of privileging certain concepts as the ones one naturally would have. 
*
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
c o n c l u s i o n
321
However that may be, these notions are supposed to provide the starting-points or principles from which we can proceed to deduce the rest of our knowledge. And so the Stoics in their logic also set out to formulate canons for deduction, which will guarantee that the beliefs we arrive at by inference come about in the right way. 
vii Conclusion
In this way the Stoics account for the possibility of knowledge and wisdom.  We  have  only  been  able  to  consider  what  seem  to  be  the  crucial points of the standard Stoic doctrine. I have not, for example, discussed the Stoic theory of signs and sign-inference, or the Stoic conception of proof.14 In conclusion I want to make some general remarks about the character of this account. Stoic epistemology standardly is characterized as 'empiricist'. This seems to be misleading. It is true that the Stoics in their reaction to wildly speculative theories about the world, involving the postulation of a host of immaterial entities, insist that the world is a world  of  bodies,  and  that  our  primary  epistemic  contact  with  it  is through perception. It is also true that our perceptions are supposed to constitute the basis on which we form concepts. But on the Stoic theory the content of our criterial natural concepts is not at all fully determined by  our  perceptions.  It  is  also  determined  by  the  natural  mechanism which leads us to form, on the basis of perception, concepts like the concept of a god or the concept of the good, which go far beyond the content of our perceptions. And it is natural concepts, including these concepts, which are supposed to underwrite our general knowledge. In this sense the Stoics are rationalists, and they were regarded as such in antiquity. 
We  have  to  remember  here  that  the  Stoics  in  the  first  instance  try  to explain how we might attain the knowledge Socrates was after. Once we keep  this  in  mind,  an  empiricist  approach  to  this  kind  of  knowledge seems highly implausible. 
One might also, given the Stoic doctrine of the criteria of truth, at first think that the Stoic account was a simple foundationalist and even infallibilist  account.  But  it  does  not  seem  to  be  an  infallibilist  account.  It claims that the wise man can manage to correctly discriminate cognitive and non-cognitive impressions. But this does not involve the postulation of some infallible cognitive ability. It is rather like Aristotle's claim that the practically wise man will always know the right thing to do. Similarly, 14 Cf. Brunschwig 1980. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
322
s t o i c   e p i s t e m o l o g y
though  the  Stoic  theory  is  foundationalist,  being  an  account  of  knowledge, it is an account of the wise man's knowledge, since only he according  to  the  Stoics  has  any  knowledge.  And  this  knowledge  is  a  rather elevated kind of knowledge which involves an understanding of what is known. It certainly meets much more stringent demands than what we ordinarily call knowledge. 
Finally, though the Stoics give an account of how knowledge and thus wisdom is attainable, it is an account which is very much focused on this abstract theoretical possibility. If we expect a consideration of the details of actual scientific knowledge of the kind we get in Aristotle's  Analytica posteriora, we will be disappointed. But we have to remember, however paradoxical this may sound, that the Stoics did not think that they themselves  had  any  knowledge  of  the  kind  whose  possibility  they  tried  to assure us of. And they seem to have taken a very dim view of our ability to understand the actual workings of nature. Even the wise man is far from omniscient.15 Being wise for the Stoics, after all, is just a matter of knowing those things one needs to know to live well. In this too they were following Socrates, though perhaps, unlike Socrates, they assumed that this involved a basic understanding of the world, for instance of the fact that the world, down to the smallest detail, is governed by divine reason and providence. 
15 Cf. Kerferd 1978a. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
10
Academic epistemology
m a l c o l m   s c h o f i e l d
i Introduction
Early  in  the  Hellenistic  period  the  Academy  went  sceptic.1 Sceptic  it remained until the two leading figures in the school at the beginning of the first century bc, Philo of Larissa and Antiochus of Ascalon, adopted more sanguine positions on the possibility of cognition - albeit mutually incompatible  positions.2 The  philosopher  who  e◊ected  this  change  of outlook in the Academy was Arcesilaus, scholarch from  c.  265 bc until his death around twenty-five years later, and reputed as a dialectician whose employment of the Socratic method led him to suspend judgement about everything.  He  impressed  the  contemporary  polymath  Eratosthenes  as one of the two leading philosophers of his time.3 And in his assaults on the Stoic theory of cognition he established the principal focus of argument between the Stoa and the Academy for the best part of the next two hundred years. 
The  most  notable  of  Arcesilaus'  sceptical  successors4 was  Carneades, the  greatest  philosopher  of  the  second  century  bc.  Although  like Arcesilaus - and in similar emulation of Socrates - Carneades wrote nothing,  his pupil  Clitomachus published  voluminous accounts of his arguments on issues across the whole range of philosophical inquiry; and it is principally to this source that - albeit indirectly - we owe our knowledge of a subtle system of thought.5 In the course of his engagement with both 1 The  principal  ancient  sources  for  Academic  epistemology  are  Cicero,  Academica  and  Sextus Empiricus,  Adversus Mathematicos  vii. There are useful collections of the Greek and Latin texts which constitute the basic evidence for Academic views in Mette 1984 (Arcesilaus) and Mette 1985 (Carneades). General surveys: Brochard 1923, Stough 1969, dal Pra 1975. 
2 Study of the views of these philosophers lies outside the scope of the present volume. For discussion see Glucker 1978, Sedley 1981, Tarrant 1985, Barnes 1989c, Görler 1994b. 
3 Str. i.15; the other he named was the Stoic Aristo of Chios. 
4 Lacydes, his immediate successor as scholarch, maintained the Academy in scepticism. The evidence about him (conveniently assembled in Mette 1985) is biographical and anecdotal. For an attempt to extract some philosophy from it see Hankinson 1995, 92-4. 
5 Like Socrates neither put any philosophy in writing: Plu.  Alex. Fort.  328a; cf. D.L. i.16, iv.32. 
Although Philodemus'  Academicorum historia ( PHerc.  1021) claims that a pupil of Arcesilaus 
[323]
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
324
a c a d e m i c   e p i s t e m o l o g y
Stoicism  and  Epicureanism  Carneades  worked  out  for  the  first  time  in Greek  philosophy  an  alternative  non-foundationalist  epistemology, sometimes misleadingly dubbed 'probabilism' in modern discussions of his views - although whether Arcesilaus or Carneades  had  any views of their own, or were simply dialecticians intent on undermining the positions of others, is a disputed question. 
ii Arcesilaus: the problem of interpretation
It has proved di√cult to come to terms with the complexities of the evidence  about  Arcesilaus'  stance  in  epistemology.6 Some  of  the  more general characterizations of his philosophical position in the sources portray  him  as  a  proto-Pyrrhonist.  'Arcesilaus',  says  Diogenes  Laertius (iv.28), 'was the first to suspend his assertions owing to the contrarieties of  arguments.'  Sextus  Empiricus  sees  a  very  close  a√nity  between Arcesilaus' philosophy and his own Pyrrhonism:
He is not found making assertions about the reality or unreality of anything, nor does he prefer one thing to another in point of convincingness or lack of convincingness, but he suspends judgment about everything. 
And he says that the aim is suspension of judgment ( epoche-), which, we said,  is  accompanied  by  tranquillity.  (S.E.  PH  i.232;  translation  Annas and Barnes )
Although  Sextus  goes  on  to  accuse  him  nonetheless  of  exhibiting unPyrrhonist  signs  of  dogmatism,  he  is  more  willing  to  see  a  genuine sceptic in Arcesilaus than he is in the case of any other Academic. 
On this reading of Arcesilaus, what leads him and his interlocutors to epoche-  is the realization that there is as much to be said on one side of the issue debated in an argument as on the other. Other texts, however, repre-Footnote 5 ( cont.)
called Pythodorus made a written record of his discussions ( Acad. hist.  xx.43-4), most of the philosophical arguments ascribed to him in the sources derive from accounts which relate his views to Carneades', and may well depend on an oral tradition transmitted through Carneades. 
For Clitomachus' literary activity: D.L.iv.67; Cic.  Acad. ii.16. But a rival account of Carneades'
philosophy was espoused by another pupil, Metrodorus, whose version was for a time espoused by Philo of Larissa:  Acad. hist. xxvi.4-11; cf. Cic.  Acad. ii.16, 78. And unClitomachean 'dogmatist'  interpretation  has  certainly  left  its  mark  e.g.  on  Sextus  Empiricus'  presentation  of Carneades' epistemology: see nn. 36, 72 below. 
6 One  dispute  -  prominent  in  the  literature  and  pursued  further  in  this  chapter  -  is  whether Arcesilaus argues solely  ad hominem  or adopts scepticism  in propria persona. For versions of the first view see Couissin 1929, Striker 1981, Frede 1984; for versions of the second Ioppolo 1986, Maconi 1988, Bett 1989, Hankinson 1995, ch. v. The suggestion in some sources (e.g. S.E.  PH
i.234,  Numen.  in  Eus.  PE  xiv.6.6,  Aug.  Acad.  iii.38)  that  Arcesilaus  was  an  esoteric  Platonic dogmatist  is  generally  and  rightly  rejected  nowadays:  see  e.g.  Glucker  1978,  296-306,  Lévy 1978. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
a r c e s i l a u s :   t h e   p r o b l e m   o f   i n t e r p r e t a t i o n 325
sent Arcesilaan  epoche-  not as the outcome of weighing equally balanced trains of reasoning, but as the conclusion of  one  particular line of reasoning,  namely  his  attack  on  the  Stoic  theory  of  the  cognitive  impression. 
This polemic is in fact the best attested piece of philosophizing attributed to Arcesilaus.7 The sources give no indication that he regarded its conclusion as one to be balanced against the Stoic viewpoint. Rather the opposite:  they  suggest  that  he  took   epoche-  to  be  a  more  reasonable  position than Stoic commitment to the cognitive impression. So there is a problem of reconciling the evidence about his arguments against the Stoics with his proto-Pyrrhonist appeal to contrarieties of arguments. 
There is also a problem about evaluating those anti-Stoic arguments in themselves. Is their conclusion - that the wise person will suspend judgement  or  assent  -  represented  as  something  to  which  Arcesilaus  himself subscribes? Or is it meant to work solely  ad hominem, as the outcome of a dialectical manoeuvre designed to corner the Stoics into admitting that on their own principles, together with premisses they cannot reasonably deny,  epoche-  is the only tenable posture where questions requiring judgement or assent are concerned? It might be argued in favour of this second alternative that a dialectical interpretation fits neatly with the evidence of Arcesilaus'  proto-Pyrrhonism,  yielding  the  following  story  about  his overall stance: if attacks on the doctrine of the cognitive impression convince the Stoics of the need for  epoche-, that is their a◊air. If the production of opposing arguments that are equally convincing or unconvincing convinces others of it, that is  their  a◊air. Arcesilaus need not take a view himself on whether either or both of these routes to  epoche- is reasonable, even if he employs a general argumentative strategy of getting people to draw the conclusion that there is a need for  epoche-, and even if he finds himself taking the second-order view that it is a good thing that people should conclude that there is such a need - as Sextus ( PH  i.233) suggests he did. 
The  dialectical  interpretation  can  also  appeal  to  Arcesilaus'  well-attested revival of the Socratic method.8 In the Socratic elenchus it is in the  first  instance  the  interlocutor,  not  Socrates,  who  is  brought  to  an acknowledgement  of  ignorance,  perplexity  ( aporia),  and  numbness  'in both soul and mouth' ( Men.  80a-b). Again, in the fullest surviving report of Arcesilaus' argument against the cognitive impression, Sextus emphasizes the  ad hominem  status of the reasoning. Arcesilaus' first move was to prove  that  there   are  no  cognitive  impressions,  that  is,  no  impressions 7 It is the centrepiece of the presentation of Arcesilaus' philosophy in both Sextus ( M  vii.150-8) and Cicero ( Acad.  i.43-6, ii.59-60, 76-8). 
8 See Cic.  Fin.  ii.2,  ND  i.11. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
326
a c a d e m i c   e p i s t e m o l o g y
which satisfy the Stoics' definition of cognitive impression. He famously o◊ered 'many and varied considerations' for 'why no true impression is to be found of such a kind that it could not turn out to be false' ( M  vii.154).9
If this is so, then 'it will follow, according to the Stoics too, that the wise person refrains from judgement' ( M  vii.155). The conclusion is argued as follows:
Given that everything is incognitive, owing to the non-existence of the Stoic criterion, then if the wise person assents, the wise person will hold opinions. For given that nothing is cognitive, if he assents to anything, he will assent to the incognitive, and assent to the incognitive is opinion. 
So if the wise person is among those who assent, the wise person will be among  those  who  hold  opinions.  But  the  wise  person  is  certainly  not among those who hold opinions (for they [sc. the Stoics] claim this to be a mark of folly and a cause of wrongdoing). Therefore the wise person is not among those who assent. And if this is so, he will have to withhold assent about everything. But to withhold assent is no di◊erent from suspending judgement. Therefore the wise person will suspend judgement about everything. (S.E.  M  vii.156-7)
This  star  example  of  Arcesilaus'  dialectic  is  plainly  designed  to  make  a sceptic of his Stoic interlocutor, not (or not in the first instance) to explain how he comes to a position of  epoche- himself. 
So it is not in doubt that Arcesilaus sometimes argued  ad hominem. The question is whether the whole of his philosophical activity was conceived as a dialectical enterprise in which argument proceeded  always  and  exclu-
 sively  from the principles of some opponent, or at any rate from premisses with  which  such  an  opponent  could  be  persuaded  to  agree.10 The  evidence  we  have  been  reviewing  already  gives  reason  to  answer:  No. 
Arcesilaus'  claim  that  the  Stoics  'too'  must  agree  to  the  rationality  of epoche-  suggests an attempt to recommend that position to all and sundry, as  one  that   even   the  Stoics  -  the  most  deeply  entrenched  dogmatists  -
ought to see that they are committed to accepting.11 And his assault on 9 Sextus  gives  no  details;  but  this  kind  of  argument  remained  the  standard  weapon  used  by Academics against the Stoics, and the sorts of example they used are recorded at length by both Sextus and Cicero: see section vi below. 
10 The 'many and varied considerations' (S.E.  M  vii.154) by which Arcesilaus sought to show that there were no impressions which satisfied the Stoic definition of a cognitive impression were plainly  not  derived from Stoic principles alone; and the Academics' success in getting the Stoics to agree to them was limited. See further section vi below. 
11 Sextus' και! could be read not as 'too' but as 'even' or 'actually' (Maconi 1988, 241 n. 32). But it is not obvious that these renderings make the implications of the text any di◊erent. Maconi also notes (ibid. 244) that Cicero clearly takes Arcesilaus to be himself committed to both the premisses and the conclusion of the anti-Stoic argument recorded by Sextus: see  Acad.  ii.67, 77. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
a r c e s i l a u s '   p o s i t i o n
327
the cognitive impression is most obviously construed as designed to show principally that the Stoics are  wrong, rather than that they ought to accept that they are wrong. Moreover the bulk of the rest of the evidence portrays Arcesilaus as holding a definite position for which he presented on his own account a variety of arguments, as the next two sections of this chapter will document. 
iii Arcesilaus' position
The main thesis to which Arcesilaus is said to have subscribed is the claim that nothing is known for certain, or more precisely that there is no such thing as what the Stoics called cognition. Two brief quotations will illustrate the centrality of this thesis in his thought, as well as giving some idea of its probable motivation. Cicero tells us:
Arcesilaus  was  the  first  who  from  various  of  Plato's  books  and  from Socratic  discourses  seized  with  the  greatest  force  the  moral:  nothing which the mind or the senses can grasp is certain. (Cic.  De Orat.  iii.67) Numenius is one of several authors who confirms that Zeno's doctrine of cognition was the principal target,12 although his colourful interpretation of the controversy in terms of competition for public status is more idiosyncratic:
Seeing  that  Zeno  was  a  rival  in  the  art  and  a  credible  challenger, Arcesilaus launched without hesitation an attempt to demolish the arguments which were being produced by him. . . . And observing that the cognitive impression, that doctrine which he [sc. Zeno] was the first to discover, was highly regarded in Athens - both it and its name - he used every possible resource against it. (Eus.  PE  xiv.6.12-13) It is readily intelligible how someone steeped in the writings of Plato (as Arcesilaus doubtless was) might be aghast both at Zeno's doctrine of the cognitive impression and more generally at the Stoics' attempt to appropriate Socrates, and indeed elements of Plato's own thought.13 In part we should suppose such a response to have been a function of incompatible philosophical  styles.  The  aporetic  manner  and  agnostic  outcome  of Socratic questioning, as exhibited in many of Plato's Socratic dialogues, 12 This is notably the explicit focus of Cicero's account of Arcesilaus: see e.g.  Acad.  i.44, ii.16, 66, 76-7.  So  also  Lact.  Inst.  vi.7  (no  doubt  dependent  on  Cicero).  Sextus  ( M  vii.150-8)  speaks generally of the Stoics as the target, but chronological considerations alone make Zeno far the likeliest author of the views he represents Arcesilaus as attacking. 
13 On Stoic appropriation of Socrates see e.g. Schofield 1984, Long 1988b; and for Platonic elements in Stoicism e.g. Krämer 1971, 108-31. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
328
a c a d e m i c   e p i s t e m o l o g y
are far removed in spirit from Zeno's insistence that everyone has cognitive impressions which can form the basis of knowledge or understanding ( episte-me-). And we know that Arcesilaus associated himself quite specifically with Socrates' disavowal of knowledge:
So  Arcesilaus  was  in  the  practice  of  denying  that  anything  could  be known, not even the one thing Socrates had left for himself - the knowledge that he knew nothing. (Cic.  Acad.  i.45)
There is also scope for the suspicion that some of his particular objections to the doctrine of the cognitive impression may owe something to arguments Plato had developed in the dialogues, although the case cannot be put more strongly than that. For example, people who have what Zeno calls cognitions must on Stoic premisses be either wise or foolish. But if they are wise, said Arcesilaus, cognition ( katale-psis) for them must simply be the same thing as knowledge or understanding ( episte-me-); if they are foolish,  it  is  merely  opinion  ( doxa).  The  reasoning  he  presented  is  not recorded by our source (Sextus Empiricus,  M  vii.153), but the outcome is reinstatement  of  the  familiar  Platonic  dichotomy  of  epistemic  states. 
Again, Sextus informs us that Arcesilaus attempted to rebut Zeno's thesis that cognition is assent to a cognitive impression: 'assent relates not to impression but to  logos (for assents are to propositions)' ( M  vii.154). The point at issue between them is not clear from this brief report. One plausible  interpretation  takes  Arcesilaus  to  be  re-using  Plato's  argument  in the  Theaetetus  against the idea that truth is accessible to perception: if perceptions  are passive a◊ections  (as on  Stoic  theory they seem to be conceived),  they  cannot  be  true  or  false,  and  cannot  therefore  be  proper objects of assent - truth and falsehood will have to be the domain of the propositions which are expressed in reasoning  about  perceptions (cf.  Tht. 
184-6).14
It  is  often  suggested  that  if  Arcesilaus  represented  his  scepticism  as something consistent with or derived from a reading of Plato, then the reading he o◊ered must have been at best selective and at worst implausible and disingenuous.15 But his critique of Zeno's theory of cognition is at least along the sorts of lines one might have expected of Plato himself. 
14 So  Ioppolo  1990.  Other  treatments  of  Arcesilaus'  Platonic  inheritance:  von  Staden  1978, Glucker 1978, 31-47, Ioppolo 1986, 40-9, Annas 1992c. A useful summary in Görler 1994b, 821-4. 
15 Whether Plato was in some sense a sceptic (in which case Arcesilaus' 'New Academy' might not be new after all) was already debated in antiquity: see e.g. Cic.  Acad.  i and 46, S.E.  PH  i.221-5. 
Modern literature exploring the case for seeing him in this light includes Woodru◊ 1986, Annas 1992c, Frede 1992. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
a r c e s i l a u s '   p o s i t i o n
329
Nor is there any sign that he rejected Plato's  conception  of what systematic knowledge  or  understanding  ( episte-me-)  consists  in.  If  he  thought  it humanly unattainable, he could appeal to the  Phaedo  to support the view that in this life we must content ourselves with a cautious and painstaking method of hypothesis. Indeed the witness of philosophical authorities is just  what  Arcesilaus  did  invoke  in  confirmation  of  his  position.16
Plutarch alleges that 'the sophists of his time accused him of rubbing o◊
his  doctrines  about  suspension  of  judgement  and  non-cognition  on Socrates,  Plato,  Parmenides  and  Heraclitus,  who  did  not  need  them, whereas  it  was  in  fact  as  if  he  was  acknowledging  his  indebtedness  to some famous  men  and  trying  to  claim  confirmation  from  them'  ( Col. 
1121e-1122a). 
Given that attack on the Stoic doctrine of cognitive impressions was one route to  epoche-, how did it relate to the other which is attested for Arcesilaus:  suspension  of  assent  owing  to  contrarieties  of  arguments? 
There  is  one  passage  in  our  sources  which  indicates  an  answer  to  this question. After remarking that Arcesilaus went beyond even Socrates in what he said about the impossibility of knowledge, Cicero continues: Such was the extent of the obscurity in which everything lurked, on his assessment, and there was nothing which could be discerned or understood. For these reasons, he said, no one should maintain or assert anything or give it the acceptance of assent, but he should always curb his rashness and restrain it from every slip - for it would be extraordinary rashness to accept something either false or incognitive, and nothing was  more  regrettable  than  for  assent  and  acceptance  to  run  ahead  of cognition and grasp. His practice was consistent with this theory: by arguing against everyone's opinions he drew most people away from their own, so that when reasons of equal weight were found on opposite  sides  on  the  same  subject,  it  might  be  easier  to  withhold  assent from either side. They call this Academy new, though I think it is old if we  count  Plato  as  one  of  the  old  Academy.  In  his  books  nothing  is asserted  and  there  is  much  argument  pro  and  contra,  everything  is investigated and nothing is stated as certain. ( Acad.  i.45-6; translation after Long and Sedley)
According to Cicero Arcesilaus' argumentation against the Stoic cognitive impression provided the  theoretical  basis for  epoche-: the production of equally  balanced  contrary  arguments  on  philosophical  subjects  was the way he attempted to  implement  the theory in practice - in order to 16 Arcesilaus'  citation  of  authorities  is  a  feature  of  his  philosophizing  particularly  di√cult  to explain on a purely dialectical reading of his arguments in epistemology. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
330
a c a d e m i c   e p i s t e m o l o g y
encourage people actually to suspend assent. In other words, on Cicero's interpretation  his  proto-Pyrrhonism  is  not  the  core  of  his  philosophy, but the application of some non-Pyrrhonist theorizing. 
As described by Cicero Arcesilaus' practice is characterized by a certain complexity. It is suggested that (i) he regularly argued against people, (ii) so as to get them used to being weaned from opinion, so that (iii) when reasons of equal weight were discovered they would find it easier to withhold assent from  either  side. Other texts associate (i) with Arcesilaus' revival  of  the  Socratic  elenchus;17 and  the  rationale  supplied  by  (ii)  is  a familiar rationale of the elenchus. (iii) is not nowadays seen as its ulterior motive. This is where Arcesilaus appears to innovate, although Cicero is right to point out that argument  pro  and  contra  is a feature of Platonic dialogues, as, for example, in the considerations advanced in the last part of the  Meno  for and against the view that virtue is teachable, or in the antinomies worked out in  Lysis  and (on a grand formal scale)  Parmenides.18 It is not hard to see how Arcesilaus might think of (iii) as no less Socratic than (ii). For if with him we interpret the elenchus as inspired by the conviction that nothing can be known, we shall expect Socrates in conducting it to be trying not only to purge his interlocutors of unfounded opinion, but to help them develop a frame of mind in which they refrain altogether from opinion, and therefore assent, with regard to  any  theoretical questions. 
For it is not just that people happen to be wedded to their own unjustified opinions.  If  they  assent  to  any  theoretical  proposition  at  all,  they  will inevitably succumb to any unjustifiable opinion.19
Sextus claimed that Arcesilaus made  epoche- 'the aim' ( telos), and in particular  that  he  said   particular  suspensions  of  judgement  were  good  and particular  assents bad. Cicero's evidence suggests an interest on his part in the intellectual habituation of his interlocutors which makes sense of this stress on particular cases. As with the Socratic elenchus, the underlying aim  will  have  been  ethical  as  well  as  intellectual:  the  false  conceit  of knowledge is regarded as morally debilitating, and philosophy must bend all e◊orts to do away with it.20
17 See Cic.  Fin.  ii.2,  ND  i.11. 
18 Arcesilaus is sometimes thought to have borrowed from Aristotle the practice of arguing either side of the case (e.g. Weische 1961, Krämer 1971, 14-58); but Cicero stresses the di◊erences between Aristotle's and Arcesilaus' uses of the method ( Fin.  v.10). 
19 For further discussion of how far Arcesilaus' use of the elenchus may be regarded as Socratic in spirit see Annas 1992c, Shields 1994. 
20 Modern scholarship has found Sextus' assertion that Arcesilaus made  epoche-  the  telos  hard to evaluate: see e.g. Sedley 1983a, Ioppolo 1986, 34-40, 157-65, Annas 1988b. No doubt it was not his express 'doctrine', but if the account of his philosophical strategy at  Acad.  i.45 is correct his argumentative practice was systematically designed to induce   epoche-. (Sextus' reminder that Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t w o   o b j e c t i o n s   t o   a r c e s i l a u s 331
Arcesilaus' contemporary, the maverick Stoic Aristo of Chios,21 is credited with adapting Homer's description of the Chimaera to characterize his philosophical make-up (D.L. iv.33):22
Plato in front, Pyrrho behind, Diodorus in the middle. 
'That  is',  as  David  Sedley  aptly  comments,  'behind  his  formal  pose  as Plato's  heir  in  the  Academy  lay  Pyrrho's  philosophy,  while  Diodorus'
dialectical  technique  held  the  heterogeneous  creatures  together.'23
Aristo's quip is not easy to evaluate. It gives no intimation of any Socratic inspiration  for  Arcesilaus'  thought,  so  strongly  emphasized  by  Cicero, our main (although much later) authority on the motivation of his scepticism.  No  other  source  elaborates  on  debts  to  Pyrrho  or  Diodorus.  In default of further evidence, we are in no position to adjudicate on whether any similarities with Pyrrho and Diodorus were superficial or, as Aristo presumably meant to suggest, constituted evidence that Arcesilaus was an eclectic intellectual parasite - or, as is a priori more plausible, represented real influences which he absorbed and made his own. 
iv Two objections to Arcesilaus
In conclusion it is appropriate to consider two objections to Arcesilaus'
position,  one  theoretical,  one  practical.  The  theoretical  objection  complains that if Arcesilaus is interpreted as claiming on his own account that nothing  can  be  known  and  consequently  that  it  is  wise  to  refrain  from assertion on all matters, then he refutes himself. To be sure, he explicitly denied that he  knew  that nothing could be known. But on his own principles, if he does not know it, he should not assert it at all.24
Three main strategies for dealing with this di√culty deserve consideration. The first is to propose that we should after all prefer the dialectical interpretation of Arcesilaus, which makes all his arguments nothing but ad hominem  manoeuvres against opponents. But while this way out would according to Pyrrhonism  epoche-  is accompanied by tranquillity is gratuitous - there is no evidence of Academic interest in tranquillity, nor does Sextus mean to suggest the contrary.) 21 See Long 1986a for the argument that philosophical debate with Aristo formed a significant part of Arcesilaus' philosophical activity. 
22 Similar jibes carrying the same philosophical point were made by Timon of Phlius, in lines also reported at D.L. iv.33 (cf. Numen. in Eus.  PE  xiv.5.12-14, 6.4-6). 
23 Sedley  1983a,  15.  He  finds  more  truth  in  the  imputation  of  dependence  on  Pyrrho  than  is allowed by Long and Sedley 1987, i.446. 
24 The ancient text in which this line of objection is pressed against Arcesilaus in particular is Lact. 
 Inst.  vi.10-15, probably drawing on a lost section of Cicero's  Academica. The discussions about the epistemological status of the Academic position Cicero records in surviving passages relate to debates dating to the second century bc: see  Acad.  ii.28-9, 109-10. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
332
a c a d e m i c   e p i s t e m o l o g y
dispose of the problem, the fact remains that it runs counter to the great body of ancient evidence about Arcesilaus. A second strategy would be to credit him with one or other of the subtle devices deployed by later sceptics,  Academic  as  well  as  Pyrrhonist,  for  qualifying  their  own  sceptical claims. For example, Arcesilaus might have represented his position on the impossibility of knowledge not as something he asserted, but simply as  the  way  things  appeared  to  him.  This  suggestion  runs  the  danger  of anachronism:  sceptic  self-qualification  was  very  likely  the  outcome  of later  debate.  Moreover  Sextus  implies  that  so  far  as  he  was  aware, Arcesilaus did  not  enter disclaimers of this sort, for example, in his evalua-tions  of  particular  assents  or  suspensions  of  judgement  ( PH  i.233).  It might be better to suppose that Arcesilaus conceived his own position in Platonic fashion as a  hypothesis, i.e. as a theory advanced for consideration as the best explanation we have of human cognitive performance. If this solution  seems  unduly  speculative,  one  might  finally  and  glumly  conclude, in default of any evidence to the contrary, that he  had  no position on the status of his own position. 
The  other  and  principal  ancient  objection  pressed  against  Arcesilaus was the charge of  apraxia, 'inability to act'.25 If wholly rational persons never  assent,  how  are  they  to  act?  The  Stoics  made  this  question  their major  counter-weapon  against  the  Academic  critique  of  the  cognitive impression  throughout  the  Hellenistic  period,  and  it  was  also  levelled against  Arcesilaus  by  the  Epicurean  Colotes.  From  Plutarch  we  have details of an Academic answer to it. It consists in an explanation of action as the outcome of impression and impulse alone, without the additional need - insisted on by the Stoics - for assent. This is usually interpreted as an  ad hominem  stratagem, not a theory the Academics advanced on their own account. However that may be, Plutarch does not expressly ascribe it to Arcesilaus. Conceivably it is the work of Carneades or Clitomachus.26
The  defence  against  the   apraxia  criticism  which   is  attested  for Arcesilaus is recorded by Sextus:
Arcesilaus says that one who suspends judgement about everything will regulate choice and avoidance and actions in general by 'the reasonable'
25 On Academic defences against arguments of this kind see Striker 1980, Bett 1989. 
26 See Plu.  Col.  1120c, 1121e-1122f. The main reason why the Academic rebuttal of the charge of apraxia  reported at 1122b-d is usually attributed to Arcesilaus is simply that it is introduced in the  context  of  Colotes'  attack  on  his  position  (for  supplementary  considerations  see  Striker 1980, 65 n. 29). But Plutarch probably implies that it was a reply to  Stoic  criticism (1122a-b), as its exploitation of Stoic conceptual apparatus confirms; and elsewhere he suggests that such Stoic  criticism  belonged  mainly  to  a  later  phase  of  debate,  being  principally  the  work  of Chrysippus  and  Antipater  ( Stoic.  Rep.  1057a).  Against  Arcesilaan  authorship  see  e.g.  Mette 1984, 92 n. 1, Lévy 1993, 266-8; also below, p.333 n. 39. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t w o   o b j e c t i o n s   t o   a r c e s i l a u s 333
( eulogon);  and  that  by  proceeding  in  accordance  with  this  criterion  he will act rightly and successfully - for (1) happiness is acquired through prudence, and (2) prudence resides in right and successful actions, and (3) right and successful action is whatever when done has a reasonable justification: therefore one who attends to the reasonable will act rightly and successfully and be happy. (S.E.  M  vii.158)
The status of Arcesilaus' theory is hotly debated. The notion of 'the reasonable' ( to eulogon) was one Zeno employed, and Arcesilaus' premiss (3) predicates of 'right and successful action' ( katortho-ma) Zeno's definition of an  appropriate  action ( kathe-kon) as 'whatever when/if done has a reasonable  justification'.27 Since  premisses  (1)  and  (2)  are  also  Stoic,  it  seems likely that Arcesilaus is replying to the Stoic challenge by exploiting theses and concepts central to the Stoics' own ethics.28 This has inevitably suggested to some scholars that Arcesilaus' argument is meant to function only as  ad hominem  dialectic against the Stoa: 'He did not teach the doctrine of the  eulogon; that was a thesis he derived from Stoicism in order to attack and wound it in its weakest part. He behaved as a nihilist, a fifth columnist inside the Stoa.'29
The suggestion labours under a di√culty. Arcesilaus' argument was conceived as a  defence  in the face of Stoic criticism. It will only work as a simultaneous counter-attack provided that the Stoics abandon their standard account of right and successful action ( katortho-ma) as 'appropriate action which possesses all the measures' (Stob.  Ecl. ii.93.14-15 [⫽ SVF  iii.500]), or more simply as a 'perfect appropriate action' (Stob.  Ecl. ii.85.18-20 [⫽ SVF
iii.494]). For as things stand, the Stoics would insist that following the course that is 'reasonable' will not guarantee that one performs a  perfect appropriate action, even if it will prove to be  true  of any such action that it was a or the reasonable thing to do. But Sextus records no reasons Arcesilaus put forward as to why the Stoics should give up their ordinary definition of  katortho-ma.30 It might therefore seem better to accept that Arcesilaus is replying rather more directly on his own account to the Stoic challenge to show how action is compatible with  epoche-. Yet it then becomes hard to understand why he should have opted for just the Stoic-sounding rationale he is represented as advancing, and why there is no obvious trace of its being adopted or adapted by any other Academic sceptic.31
27 D.L. vii.107, Stob. ii.85.13-15. No account survives of how the Stoics would have defined 'reasonable' in this context; nor does it appear that Arcesilaus sought to supply the omission. 
28 So Couissin 1929, Bett 1989, 62-9;  contra  Ioppolo 1986, 120-34. 
29 Couissin 1929, 38; cf. Striker 1980, 63-6. 
30 Cf. Maconi 1988, 247-52, Bett 1989, 62-9. 
31 But see n. 66 below. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
334
a c a d e m i c   e p i s t e m o l o g y
On  either  interpretation  there  is  a  further  di√culty.  How  will  those who  regulate  their  conduct  by  'the  reasonable'  thereby  avoid  assent? 
Someone who says of the course of action  A  he proposes to adopt: ' A  is the reasonable thing to do' does not claim or imply that he is opting for  A  on the basis of cognition. But nor is he suspending judgement about it or the reasonableness  of  pursuing  it.  Compare  the  Stoic  Sphaerus,  who  when tricked  into  taking  wax  pomegranates  for  real  ones,  and  charged  with assenting to something false, replied: 'I didn't assent to the proposition that they are pomegranates, but to the proposition that it is reasonable to think they are pomegranates' (D.L. vii.177). Perhaps Arcesilaus thought that doing something because it is the reasonable course to follow was like entertaining a hypothesis about some theoretical matter: reliance on what is  reasonable  similarly  requires  only  a  working  assumption  about  what should be done, not an assent or a judgement about truth. If so, his proposal turns not (as Sextus suggests) on the idea of the reasonable, but on the unexpressed notion of a working assumption. 
v Carneades on opinion and assent
'I agree with Clitomachus', says Cicero ( Acad.  ii.108), 'when he writes that it  was  a  labour  of  Herculean  proportions  Carneades  went  through  in dragging from our minds that wild and savage monster assent - i.e. opinion  and  rashness.'  Not  every  Academic  would  have  wanted  to  describe Carneades'  achievement  in  these  terms.  Cicero  elsewhere  makes  a  contrast between Arcesilaus and Carneades.32 Arcesilaus argued against the Stoic cognitive impression (1) that there is no true impression such that there could not be a false impression indistinguishable from it. From this he further argued (2) that in that case if the wise person assents, what he will be holding is an opinion - since cognition is impossible. And he held (3) that it is necessary for the wise person not to hold opinions, and so not to assent. But Carneades appeared to allow (contrary to (3)) that sometimes the wise man  will  assent, and so will hold an opinion: This [sc. (1)] is the one argument which has held the field [sc. within the Academy] down to the present day.33 For the thesis: 'The wise person will assent to nothing' [i.e. (3)] had nothing to do with this dispute34
32 See  Acad.  ii.59, 66-7, 76-8. 
33 So the Loeb translates  haec est una contentio quae adhuc permanserit. Long and Sedley 1987, 1, 243
have: 'This is the one controversial issue which has lasted up to the present.' But that makes Cicero claim something false and apparently inconsistent with what immediately follows. 
34 Cicero overstates the case, perhaps because he wants to indicate that the  apraxia  argument is the principal context for a discussion of (3) (so Striker 1980, 75). He has in mind the sound point Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
c a r n e a d e s   o n   o p i n i o n   a n d   a s s e n t 335
[i.e. over the possibility of cognition]. For it was permitted for the wise person to grasp nothing cognitively but yet hold an opinion - a thesis Carneades  is  said  to  have  accepted,  although  for  my  part,  trusting Clitomachus rather than Philo or Metrodorus, I think that this was not so much something he accepted as something he put forward in debate. 
(Cic.  Acad.  ii.78)
Carneades and the Academy in general agreed with Arcesilaus in arguing against the cognitive impression. But as Cicero here records, it became a matter of controversy among Carneades' heirs what conclusions he was prepared to derive from that generally agreed position. And according to the interpretation of Philo and Metrodorus he took a di◊erent line on (3) from  Arcesilaus:  the  wise  person   might  sometimes  hold  an  opinion.  On their view any Herculean labour ascribed to Carneades must have had an outcome other than the wholesale extrusion of assent from the mind. 
The  conflict  in  the  assessment  of  Carneades'  treatment  of  opinion attested  by  Cicero  is  easily  explained.  Once  again  the  crux  is  a  choice between a dialectical reading of a position and one which attributes to its author views that are in some sense his own. If Clitomachus is right,35
Carneades  will  have  varied  Arcesilaus'  anti-Stoic  dialectic  by  saying  in e◊ect: given (1) and (2),  either  the wise person will never assent to anything (as in (3))  or - supposing he does assent - he will sometimes hold opinions. The point would be to insist that the Stoics are confronted with a  dilemma.  If  they  regard  the  option  of   epoche-  with  horror,  as  forcing theminto Arcesilaus' camp, then they can of course allow that the wise person will sometimes assent, but at the heavy price of having to agree to exactly  what  Arcesilaus  supposed  their  Stoic  principles  would  never permit  them  to  accept:  that  the  wise  person  will  sometimes  hold  mere opinions. 
The  alternative  interpretation  of  Carneades  advocated  by  Philo  and Metrodorus  is  amplified  a  little  by  Catulus,  the  Philonian  speaker  in Academica  Book ii, in the closing lines of the dialogue: I  am  coming  round  to  my  father's  view,  which  he  used  to  say  was Carneades' in fact. I think nothing can be grasped cognitively. Yet I also that (3) does not follow from (1) directly, only from the conjunction of (1) and (2). At ii.68 he makes it quite clear that the existence of controversy over (3)  presupposes  that a case for (1) - and for its consequence that cognition is impossible - has been made. 
35 Most modern scholarship supposes with Cicero that he is: see e.g. Long and Sedley 1987, i, 448-9, 455-6, following Couissin 1929, 45-6. For arguments in favour of this verdict see e.g. 
Bett 1989, 70 n. 24. Note in particular that according to Cicero Carneades only  sometimes  pursued the second option, of granting that the wise person sometimes assents ( Acad. ii.67): which strongly supports the view that this was a dialectical ploy. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
336
a c a d e m i c   e p i s t e m o l o g y
think that the wise person will assent to what is not grasped cognitively, i.e. he will hold opinions - but in such a way that he understands he is holding opinions and knows that there is nothing which can be grasped cognitively. ( Acad. ii.148)
This tantalizingly brief construal of Carneades' stance in epistemology does a little to explain what on the Philonian view holding an opinion would add up to for a wise person. A number of Hellenistic attempts to characterize opinion are recorded, but the one that seems to shape Catulus'
formulation is the Stoic conception of it as 'yielding to an incognitive impression' (Plu.  Stoic. Rep.  1056f ). His way of removing anything objectionable fromopinion so conceived is to suppose it may involve a second-order mental attitude: the wise person does not just hold an opinion, but is also aware  that  it is merely an opinion and not something cognitively grasped. What he is presumably assuming is that the reason for  avoiding opinion is because it is ordinarily accompanied, as Socrates so often pointed out, by the false conceit of knowledge: not merely do people holding opinions believe (truly or falsely) that  p, but they falsely believe that they know that  p - falsely, because there is nothing that  can  be grasped cognitively. 
Catulus' wise person is not infected by the false conceit of knowledge. 
Although he believes that  p, he does so well aware that he does not  know  that p. Therefore he is free of what is debilitating about opinion. So construed, the Philonian interpretation of why Carneades said that the wise person will sometimes hold an opinion di◊ers from the Clitomachean in two fundamental respects. First, it takes himto have accepted the claimhimself. It was not just something he propounded as one horn of a dilemma for the Stoics. Second, it attributes to hima sanitized notion of opinion, such that a perfectly rational person need not seek to avoid holding opinions. 
Did  Clitomachus  represent  his  dialectical  Carneades  as  holding  no views of his own of any kind on this issue of opinion and assent?36 Far from it. Here are two pieces of evidence which favour the opposite conclusion.  First,  the  passage  about  Carneades'  Herculean  labour  quoted at the  beginning  of  this  section.  If  it  was  a  great  achievement  to  'drag from our  minds  that  wild  and  savage  monster  assent'  ( Acad.  ii.108), Clitomachus is very likely supposing that Carneades himself assumed that 36 Much modern discussion of Carneades denies him any such views on this or any matter: so e.g. 
Couissin 1929, 50-1, Striker 1980, 82-3 ( contra  e.g. Bett 1989, 76-90). Many of the texts which portray  him  as  having  views  of  his  own  derive  from  sources  that  have  an  axe  to  grind  (e.g. 
Numen.  in  Eus.  PE  xiv.8.1-10,  S.E.  PH  i.226-31,  M  vii.159-84  (where  he  perhaps  follows Antiochus: so Sedley 1992a, 44-55)). But Clitomachus' evidence that he did needs more careful attention (however note also Clitomachus' remark, conceivably made with a specific reference to ethics, that he could never understand what was 'approved' ( probaretur) by Carneades:  Acad. 
ii.139). 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008







c a r n e a d e s   o n   o p i n i o n   a n d   a s s e n t 337
the wise person will refrain from assent. His implication will be that that assumption motivated much of Carneades' philosophical activity - as on our  account  it  did  Arcesilaus'  before  him.  Second  is  some  information about a distinction between two meanings of the thesis that 'the wise person  will  refrain  from  assent'  which  Cicero  reports  a  few  pages  earlier on.37 The  report  makes  most  readily  intelligible  sense  if  Clitomachus took the thesis to be one which represented Carneades' own position. For the  distinction  Clitomachus  drew  between  di◊erent  ways  of  taking  it indicates a concern on his part to rebut the charge of  apraxia ('inability to act') levelled against the Academy: a response which is di√cult to interpret  unless  Academics  did  in  some  sense  themselves  advocate  the  view that the wise person will not assent. 
Cicero's account of the two meanings is unfortunately compressed, and probably at one or two points textually corrupt. But there seems to be a contrast  between  refraining  from   judgement,  which  the  wise  person  will always do, and refraining from  saying 'Yes' or 'No' to a question, where his position will be more nuanced. Here the wise man  will  say 'Yes' or 'No', but  without  thereby  expressing  a  judgement,  that  is,  without  meaning that he takes something to be true or false. He will simply be signalling that he is 'following' or 'going along with' an impression which he finds persuasive in one direction or another.38 The contrast is a perfectly general one, not restricted to questions relating to how a person is to act. However Cicero suggests that the idea of 'following' an impression without forming a judgement was for Clitomachus particularly relevant to the problem of how someone who refrains from assent 'nonetheless does move and does act'  ( Acad.  ii.104):  the  wise  man  'goes  along  with'  those  impressions  by which  he  is  roused  to  action.  When  Plutarch  gives  his  account  of  the Academic rejoinder to the charge of  apraxia, he may well be reproducing a more detailed version of this response by Clitomachus to the problem:39
37 Clitomachus' distinction is discussed by Frede 1984, Bett 1990. 
38 Cf. S.E.  PH  i.230: 'Carneades and Clitomachus say that they go along with things - and that some things are persuasive or convincing ( pithanon) - with an intense ( sphodra-s) inclination.'
'Intense inclination' would no doubt be the natural and appropriate response to 'the intensity of its appearing true' which is a feature of convincing impressions, according to Carneades (S.E. 
 M  vii.171). Sextus implies that Arcesilaus was closer to Pyrrhonism than Carneades because he did not rank impressions according to whether they were more or less deserving of conviction: PH  i.232. An unsafe inference: Arcesilaus did not work with the conceptual apparatus of the pithanon  at all. 
39 Note particularly the correspondence between Clitomachus' talk of 'impressions by which we are aroused to action' ( Acad.  ii.104) and the account of impulse as 'aroused by that [sc.the movement] of impression' in Plutarch's report. The role of nature implied in the report perhaps finds an echo in Clitomachus' claim that it is 'contrary to nature that nothing should be acceptable ( probabile)'  ( Acad.  ii.99).  For  discussion  of  the  philosophical  content  of  Plutarch's  text  see Striker 1980, 66-9. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
338
a c a d e m i c   e p i s t e m o l o g y
The  soul  has  three  movements  -  impression,  impulse  and  assent.  The movement  of  impression  we  could  not  remove,  even  if  we  wanted  to; rather,  as  soon  as  we  encounter  things,  we  get  an  impression  and  are a◊ected by them. The movement of impulse, when aroused by that of impression, moves a person actively towards appropriate objects, since a kind of turn of the scale and inclination occur in the commanding-faculty. So those who suspend judgement about everything do not remove this movement either, but make use of the impulse which leads them naturally towards what appears appropriate. What, then, is the only thing they avoid? That only in which falsehood and deception are engendered
- opining and precipitately assenting, which is yielding to the appearance out of weakness and involves nothing useful. For action requires two  things:  an  impression  of  something  appropriate,  and  an  impulse towards the appropriate object that has appeared; neither of these is in conflict with suspension of judgement. For the argument keeps us away from opinion, not from impulse or impression. So whenever something appropriate  has  appeared,  no  opinion  is  needed  to  get  us  moving  and proceeding  towards  it;  the  impulse  arrives  immediately,  since  it  is  the soul's process and movement. (Plu.  Col. 1122b-d; translation Long and Sedley)
vi Carneades on the impossibility of
knowledge
Why on Clitomachus' view did Carneades conclude in the first place that the wise person should refrain from assent? Just as with Arcesilaus, the answer  lies  in  his  rejection  of  the  Stoic  cognitive  impression.  Cicero stresses that the whole question of whether the wise man assents or holds opinions becomes a problem precisely because (as the Academics argue) nothing can be cognitively grasped: 'if I succeed in proving that nothing can be cognitively grasped, you must admit that the wise man will never assent'  ( Acad.  ii.78).40 And  Clitomachus'  di◊erentiation  between  two sorts  of  assent  is  worked  out  in  the  light  of  the  claim  that  impressions di◊er in persuasiveness even though they have no mark of truth and certainty peculiar to themselves and found nowhere else ( Acad.  ii.103). 
It was not just the Stoic cognitive impression that Carneades attacked. 
In the most general and comprehensive account of Carneades' epistemology preserved in our sources his entire position is represented as founded on rejection of  any  infallible criterion of truth. 'On the subject of the crite-40 Cf.  Acad.  ii.59, 68, and see p. 334 n. 34 above. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
c a r n e a d e s   o n   t h e   i m p o s s i b i l i t y   o f   k n o w l e d g e 339
rion', says Sextus ( M  vii.159), 'Carneades marshalled arguments not only against the Stoics but also against all previous philosophers.' Two particular  arguments  are  summarized,  the  first  very  briefly.  This  consisted  in showing that there  is  no such criterion as philosophers claim - not reason, not sensation, not impression, not anything: 'for all of these alike deceive us' (S.E.  M  vii.159).  How  exactly Carneades showed this Sextus does not record, nor just what he meant by 'criterion' in this context.41 Perhaps his contention amounted to the claim that we have no psychological faculty such that every use of it which appears to result in our grasping thereby some true state of a◊airs as 'evident' actually does give us thereby a grasp of just that state of a◊airs as 'evident'. In what sense would such a claim constitute  an  attack  'aimed  at  all  of  them  [sc.  previous  philosophers]
jointly'?  Probably  only  because  Carneades  supposed  that  the  di◊erent candidates  for  criterial  faculty  he  considered  e◊ectively  included  every basis for cognition so far proposed by philosophers. 
The  second  Carneadean  argument  recorded  by  Sextus  is  reported  in greater detail (S.E.  M  vii.160-5). Carneades started by supposing for the sake of argument that (1) there  is  after all some criterion. But if so (2) our ability to grasp what is evident must be a function of how what is evident a◊ects us as we employ some criterial faculty (as assumed in (1)). And once it is accepted that (3) an a◊ection (in this instance an impression) is one thing and the evident state of a◊airs it is taken to reveal another, the possibility has also to be accepted that (4) some impressions which appear to reveal what is evident are deceptive - the match is imperfect. Therefore (5) not every impression can be a criterion of truth, but (if any) only the true impression. But (6) there is no true impression of such a kind that it could not turn out false, so the supposed criterion will turn out to consist in an impression which spans true and false. (7) Such an impression is not cognitive, and cannot therefore be a criterion. Therefore (8) no impression is criterial. But in that case (9) reason cannot be a criterion either, since reason derives from impression. Therefore (10) neither irrational sensation nor reason is a criterion. (10) does not formally contradict (1); but (8) to (10) between them eliminate the favoured candidates for what the criterion hypothesized in (1) might be. 
Sextus  is  not  explicit  about  which  philosophers  are  the  target  of  this complex sequence of reasoning. There is much to be said for the view that Epicurus is the principal opponent in view. Two features of the argument 41 On  the  notion  of  a  criterion  in  Hellenistic  philosophy  see  Striker  1974,  Brunschwig  1988b, Striker 1990. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
340
a c a d e m i c   e p i s t e m o l o g y
in  particular  support  this  interpretation.  First,  most  space  and  e◊ort  are devoted to proving (5), which hits at the Epicureans, who believed that  all impressions  are  true  -  there  is  no  such  thing  as  a  false  impression.  (5)  is something the Stoics, by contrast, take for granted; and indeed in recommending (2) by the argument that sensation cannot register or reveal anything unless it is altered by what it registers or reveals, Carneades follows the Stoics, and borrows from Chrysippus in particular the idea first that such an alteration is what an impression is, and second that impressions are like light in simultaneously revealing themselves and something external to them.42 Secondly, in formulating the conclusion of the whole argument in the terms in which (10) is couched he rounds o◊ the proof in a way calculated once more to address a specifically Epicurean position. The articulation  of  (10)  as  a  disjunction  between  irrational  sensation  and  reason corresponds to the Epicurean conception of the division of labour between perception and reason, not the Stoic - for the Stoics insist that cognitive impressions  are   rational  impressions.43 Of  course  steps  (6)  and  (7)  of  the argument are standardly reported as anti-Stoic manoeuvres in our accounts of Academic scepticism. But Carneades' point here is doubtless that once Epicureans are persuaded to accept (5), the only way they can sustain belief in a criterion of truth is in e◊ect to accept the Stoic doctrine of the cognitive impression - which succumbs to the considerations advanced in (6) and (7). 
Sextus' evidence that Carneades argued about knowledge and the criterion of truth over a broader front than Arcesilaus is indirectly confirmed by  what  Cicero  tells  us  of  'the  Academy's'  approach  to  the  topic.  'The Academics', he says ( Acad.  ii.40), 'embody their entire case in the reasoning of a single argument.' The argument he goes on to set out turns out to be a portmanteau proof, designed to demolish with a single sequence of strokes the epistemologies of Stoics and Epicureans alike. It is impossible to  decide  whether  the  idea  of  such  an  all-purpose  demonstration  was Carneades' own or something his concern to deal comprehensively with other schools inspired his pupils to attempt. Here is the argument, which has obvious a√nities with the proof recorded by Sextus we have just been examining:
(1) Of impressions, some are true, some false. (2) A false impression is not cognitive. But (3) every true impression is such that a false one just like it can  also  occur.  And  (4)  where  impressions  are  such  that  there  is  no di◊erence between them, it cannot turn out that some of them are cogni-42 Cf.  SVF  ii 54. 
43 So Long and Sedley 1987, ii, 453. The Epicurean view: D.L. x.31-2; the Stoic: D.L. vii.51. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
c a r n e a d e s   o n   t h e   i m p o s s i b i l i t y   o f   k n o w l e d g e 341
tive but others not. Therefore (5) no impression is cognitive. (Cic.  Acad. 
ii.40)
Cicero comments as follows:
Of the premisses which they adopt in order to reach their conclusion, they take two to be conceded to them, since no one raises an objection. 
These are, first, (2) that false impressions are not cognitive; and second, (4) that when impressions do not di◊er at all it is impossible that some of them  should  be  cognitive,  others  not.  But  the  other  premisses  they defend with a long and wide-ranging disquisition. Here again there are two of them: first, (1) that of impressions some are true, others false; second, (3) that every impression arising from something true is such that it could also arise from something false. ( Acad.  ii.41; both translations by Long and Sedley)
The  'long  and  wide-ranging  disquisition'  needed  to  defend  (1)  presupposes  principally  Epicurean  opponents;44 (3),  on  the  other  hand,  is  as noted above the Academics' classic anti-Stoic move. Some indication of the sorts of consideration that were adduced in support of (1) is given in Acad.  ii.79-83, where Cicero runs through a battery of now familiar sceptical arguments45 questioning the reliability of the senses: they represent the sun as a foot in diameter and an oar in water as bent; their scope is limited and species-relative; etc. As expected Epicurus is mentioned as the chief proponent of the 'credulous' view that 'the senses never lie' (ibid. 
82). By contrast the Academics worked out what they had to say on (3) by attacking the Stoic definition of the cognitive impression. Both Arcesilaus and Carneades took as their specific target the third clause of the definition:  which  provided  that  a  cognitive  impression  is  'of  such  a  kind  as could not arise from what is not'.46
Two main lines of objection were developed by the Academics in this context, both aimed at showing that there are false impressions indistinguishable from the true impressions which satisfy the other two clauses of the Stoic definition, namely that they arise from what is, and are stamped and impressed exactly in accordance with what is. They are referred to in our sources as arguments from 'indiscernibility',  aparallaxia. Falling under the  first  of  the  two  were  appeals  to  the  experience  of  dreamers,  those su◊ering  from  hallucinations,  etc.  Such  persons  are  moved  by  their impressions in just the same way as people normally respond to the sorts of 44 As is explicitly remarked at  Acad.  ii.83; cf. 101. 
45 Cicero tells us they were  communes loci, stock arguments, in his own day:  Acad.  ii.80. 
46 Arcesilaus: S.E.  M  vii.154, Cic.  Acad.  ii.76-8; Carneades: S.E.  M  vii.401-11. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
342
a c a d e m i c   e p i s t e m o l o g y
impression the Stoics believe to be cognitive. The second and perhaps subsidiary type of  aparallaxia  argument focused on cases where even healthy persons  in  full  possession  of  their  senses  find  it  impossible  to  tell  two things apart - two twins, two eggs, two applications of the same seal.47
Sextus'  report  of  the  arguments  derived  from  dreaming  and  the  like makes  their  logical  structure  transparent.  What  they  are  intended  to establish  is  that  there  are  false  impressions  indistinguishable  from  true impressions inasmuch as they are equally evident and striking. This conclusion is taken to follow from the fact that e.g. hallucinations move those who  experience  them  to  the  same   behaviour  as  supposedly  cognitive impressions move those who experience them:
Just as in normal states too we believe and assent to very clear appearances, behaving towards Dion, for instance, as Dion and towards Theon as  Theon,  so  too  in  madness  some  people  have  a  similar  experience. 
When Heracles was deranged, he got an impression from his own children as though they were those of Eurystheus, and he attached the consequential  action  to  this  impression  -  killing  his  enemy's  children: which [sc. killing the children] was what he did. If then impressions are cognitive in so far as they induce us to assent and to attach to them the consequential action, since false impressions are plainly of this kind too, we must say that incognitive ones are indiscernible from the cognitive. 
(S.E.  M  vii.404-5; translation after Long and Sedley) Similarly dreamers get the same pleasure or feel the same terror at what they are experiencing as waking persons do, for example, when quenching their thirst or running screaming from a wild animal (S.E.  M  vii.403). 
Here the claim that dreaming behaviour is identical with waking behaviour seems harder to sustain: the Academics must be arguing that there is the same  impulse  and accordingly the same assent, and that these constitute identical behaviour. 
So  on  Sextus'  account  the  Academics  do  not  claim  that  there  is  any direct way of establishing the nature of dreaming or hallucinatory experience. They make a proposal about what it  must  be like - namely (in the cases  discussed)  'evident'  and  'striking'  -  on  the  basis  of  inference. 
Cicero's treatment of the dispute between the Stoa and the Academy over this issue does not present the Academics' line of reasoning with the same clarity.48 Nonetheless his evidence can be interpreted as consistent with 47 These arguments are discussed from the Stoic point of view in chapter 9. Cf. also Frede 1983, Annas 1990b, Striker 1990. Arguments from dreaming etc. are given pride of place in Cic.  Acad. 
ii.47-58, S.E.  M  vii.401-11, although the case of twins etc. gets more prominence at Cic.  Acad. 
ii.83-90. 
48 See Cic.  Acad.  ii.51-4, 88-90. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
c a r n e a d e s   o n   t h e   i m p o s s i b i l i t y   o f   k n o w l e d g e 343
Sextus'. He suggests that the Academics' key point was that so far as the assent of the mind is concerned, there is no di◊erence between the false impressions experienced by dreamers and the insane and the true impressions of sane wakeful persons ( Acad.  ii.90). So when he represents them as stressing that 'what we are asking is what these things [sc. dreams, hallucinations, etc.] looked like at the time' ( Acad.  ii.88; cf. 52), this should be seen as a way of putting the challenge: if there is the same assent, must we not suppose that the impressions which prompt the assent are equally evident and striking when they occur? 
The reply of the Stoicizing Antiochus as documented by Cicero may be interpreted  as  resisting  the  Academic  argument  so  construed  at  two points  in  particular.  First,  he  stressed  that  when  dreamers  wake  or  the insane recover they dismiss their dreaming or hallucinatory impressions as feeble and insubstantial ( Acad.  ii.51). Here Antiochus can be read as capitalizing on the inferential nature of our understanding of such experiences  (conceded  by  the  Academics).  His  rejoinder  in  e◊ect  says:  the self-conscious judgement of those who recover their normal senses provides a sounder basis for deciding how evident and striking their abnormal  impressions  were  than  the  appeal  to  assent  proposed  by  the Academics.  Second,  Antiochus  disputed  that  dreamers  or  the  insane   do assent to their impressions in the same way as waking or sane persons. For example, he appealed to the similar phenomenon of inebriation: Even men acting under the influence of wine do not act with the same kind of approval as when they are sober. They waver, they hesitate, they sometimes  pull  themselves  back.  They  give  a  feebler  assent  to  their impressions. And when they have slept it o◊ they realize how insubstantial those impressions were. (Cic.  Acad.  ii.52)49
But in reminding us50 of how the mad Heracles transfixed his own sons with his arrows when in the grip of hallucination the Academics had the better of the argument on both points. Perhaps a single example (such as Heracles' insanity) where assent to a false impression is best explained by its being as evident and striking as any true impression is not su√cient to make their case, but the ball ends up in the Stoic court.51
49 See also S.E.  M  vii.247. 
50 Cic.  Acad.  ii.89, S.E.  M  vii.405. 
51 Carneades' articulation of the dreaming and hallucination examples in terms of 'evident and striking' impressions (as Sextus represents him) suggests that he was directing his argument specifically  against  the  position  of  the  'younger  Stoics'  ( M  vii.253),  for  whom  the  cognitive impression is not the criterion of truth unconditionally, but only when it has 'no impediment'. 
For 'this impression,  being evident and striking, all but seizes us by the hair, they say, and pulls us to assent, needing nothing else to achieve this e◊ect or to establish its di◊erence from other impressions' ( M  vii.257). 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
344
a c a d e m i c   e p i s t e m o l o g y
The other principal problem for the cognitive impression developed by the  Academics  is  described  by  Sextus  as  'proving  indiscernibility  with respect to stamp and impress' ( M  vii.408).52 It focused principally on the powers of discrimination of the wise. Even a wise person is unable to say infallibly which of two exactly similar eggs he is being shown; and he will
'get  a  false  impression,  albeit  one  from  what  is,  and  imprinted  and stamped  exactly  in  accordance  with  what  is,  if  he  has  an  impression  of Castor as though it is of Polydeuces' (ibid. 410) - which since identical twins are coins from a single mint he very well might. 
The Stoics' reply to this objection has already been explained in an earlier chapter. The Academics were unmoved by their rejoinders. Against the Stoic appeal to the metaphysical principle that no two individuals -
not  even  two  grains  of  sand  -  are  qualitatively  identical,  they  pitted Democritean  metaphysics.  Democritus  held  that  some  whole  worlds
'completely and absolutely match each other in every detail, so that there is no di◊erence between them whatever' (Cic.  Acad.  ii.55). Why should not the same be true of individuals within one and the same world? But the Academics believed the more important issue concerned the wise person's powers of discrimination.53 If someone has impressions of two individuals which satisfy the first two clauses of the Stoic definition but which he cannot successfully tell apart - even if (for the sake of argument) we grant that they  do  di◊er - then it follows according to the Academics that neither is 'of such a kind as could not arise from what is not'. 
In order to see why they think this we need to notice an interesting assumption they are making about the third condition of the Stoic definition: if an impression is to count as being of such a kind as could not arise from what is not, the person who has it must be able to make discriminations which reflect the fact that it is of that kind. Someone whose impression of Castor was such as could not arise from Polydeuces must be able to tell that it could not - and his impression would therefore have to carry a 'mark' ( nota) giving him that ability (Cic.  Acad.  ii.84). It seems that  the  Stoics  came  to  agree  with  this  characterization  of  their  position.54
The dispute about twins and eggs seems inconclusive. The Academics rightly insist that if they could produce cases of impressions the Stoics 52 Cicero's discussion is fuller and richer:  Acad.  ii.54-8, 84-6. 
53 See Cic.  Acad.  ii.40, 57; cf. S.E.  M  vii.409-10. 
54 According to Sextus ( M  vii.252) the Stoics hold that a cognitive impression has a 'peculiarity'
( idio-ma; translated by Cicero as  nota) which enables the person who experiences it to fasten on the objective di◊erentia in things in a 'craftsmanlike way' ( techniko-s). This notion was evidently taken over by Antiochus: see e.g.  Acad.  ii.33-6, 58. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
c a r n e a d e s '   ' p r o b a b i l i s m '
345
would have to count as cognitive, but which even a wise person could not distinguish, then on reasonable assumptions about the nature of the Stoic theory  its  idea  of  a  cognitive  impression  would  be  fatally  undermined. 
The Stoics simply deny that there are any such cases. If a wise man could not discriminate between his impressions of eggs or twins, those impressions are not cognitive and he would be right to withhold assent. Perhaps that means that the Stoics are requiring a higher standard of  exactness  in cognitive impressions than might have been supposed. But if the higher standard makes its demands felt as stringent only in exceptional cases it is not clear that nature turns out to be less generous and providential in its general  supply of reliable information.55
The Academics deployed many other  aparallaxia  arguments against the cognitive impression than the two examined in detail here. The whole critique was launched, according to Cicero, with more a priori considerations ( Acad.  ii.47-8). For example, there was appeal to the likelihood that just  as  exactly  the  same  state  of  shivering  can  be  brought  on  either  by internal imagining or by external threat, so exactly the same impression of the mind can be caused either by the imagination (as in dreams or madness) or by external causes. Another line of reasoning was given a soritical form. If some false impressions are persuasive, why not those that approximate  very  closely  to  true  ones?  And  if  these,  why  not  those  capable  of being distinguished from true ones only with extreme di√culty? And if these, why not those which are no di◊erent from them at all? The critique was apparently rounded o◊ with proofs that nothing could be cognitively grasped by reason or inference any more than by the senses.56 Thus the Academics  attacked  the  view  that  reason,  for  example,  as  employed  in dialectic  could  discriminate  between  true  and  false.  This  seems  to  have been the context in which they used paradoxes like the Sorites and the Liar  against  the  Stoics.  Even  a  wise  person  cannot  tell  the  di◊erence between a cognitive impression that some number  n  is few and a non-cognitive impression that some other number  n⫹1 is few.57
vii Carneades' 'probabilism'
Is the conclusion that nothing can be grasped cognitively itself something grasped cognitively? Arcesilaus said: No. Carneades conducted a debate on  the  question  -  no  longer  fully  capable  of  reconstruction  -  with  his 55 For further discussion of the issues raised in this paragraph see above, pp. 306 -11; also Annas 1990b. 
56  Acad.  ii.42; cf. 91-8. 
57 See  Acad.  ii.91-8; cf. S.E.  M  vii.415-21. For discussion see Barnes 1982b, Burnyeat 1982b. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
346
a c a d e m i c   e p i s t e m o l o g y
Stoic contemporary Antipater.58 He too said: No. Cicero suggests a way in which a Carneadean might wish to elaborate on that answer. It is to say that the wise person has the impression that nothing can be grasped 'in just the same way as he has those other impressions that are acceptable but not cognitively grasped' ( Acad.  ii.110). That is, his acceptance of the second-order proposition that nothing can be cognitively grasped is a matter of 'going along with' or 'following' without assent the acceptable impression that this is the case, just as his acceptance of first-order propositions consists simply in 'following' without assent the corresponding acceptable impressions. 
In  proposing  this  solution  to  the  problem  of  the  Academics'  own stance, Cicero draws on Carneades' highly developed theory of impressions in general and 'acceptable' ( probabilia) or 'convincing' (or 'persuasive': Greek  pithana) impressions in particular. He has earlier informed us that the Academics began their exposition of their epistemology 'by constructing  a  sort  of  expertise  concerning  what  we  are  calling  "impressions", defining their power and their kinds, including among them the kind that can be cognized and grasped' ( Acad.  ii.40). 'Their account', he adds,  'is  as  full  as  that  given  by  the  Stoics.'  Sextus  ascribes  just  such  a detailed scheme to Carneades by name.59
The schema is most conveniently presented by a diagram:
impressions
relative to the object
relative to the percipient
true
false apparently true apparently false 60
intensely apparent
dimly apparent
(convincing)
convincing
convincing and undistracted
58 See  Acad.  ii.28, 109; discussion in Burnyeat 1997. 
59 See   M  vii.166-75.  The  diagram  below  does  not  attempt  to  capture  all  the  distinctions Carneades drew. 
60 Carneades  called  the  apparently  true  impression  an  'appearance'  ( emphasis:  following  Stoic usage, D.L. vii.51), the apparently false an 'anti-appearance' ( apemphasis), as being  un persuasive and  un convincing:  M  vii.169. Cicero seems to be rendering  emphasis  as  species  at  Acad.  ii.58. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
c a r n e a d e s '   ' p r o b a b i l i s m '
347
There is more to say about the last line of the right-hand division, since Carneades also spoke of impressions which were 'convincing and thoroughly examined'.  But  for  the  moment  we  may  note  the  broad  resemblance between the division as a whole and the Stoic classification of impressions, which was elaborated by permutations of the categories of the convincing and  the  unconvincing,  the  true  and  the  false.61 The  key  feature  of Carneades' scheme is the fundamental distinction between truth and falsehood, which obtain with respect to the relation between impressions and the things or facts they purport to represent, and  apparent  truth and falsehood,  which  are  merely  functions  of  the  way  impressions  seem  to  those who experience them. For Carneades there always remains an epistemological as well as a logical gap between the two sorts of assessments of impressions - they concern utterly di◊erent relations in which impressions stand. 
That  basic  distinction  is  what  Carneades  exploits  in  his  argument against  Epicurean  epistemology.  As  section  vi  of  this  chapter  demonstrated, his chief complaint against Epicurus is e◊ectively that he confuses what the Epicureans call 'evidence' ( enargeia), which as properly understood is apparent truth, with truth. His further inference that  no  impression can be a criterion was derived, as we saw, from the consideration -
fundamental  to  his  critique  of  the  Stoa  -  that  for  any  true  impression there can be an indiscernible false impression: which led him to say that the  supposed  criterion  is  merely  an  apparently  true  impression  which
'spans [literally: 'is common to'] both true and false', and so is no criterion at all.62 That formula recurs in Carneades' discussion of his classificatory scheme. It represents one of three ways of taking 'convincing' or 'persuasive': sometimes when we call an impression convincing or persuasive we mean to imply that it is true, sometimes that it is false, sometimes that it might be either. And Carneades comments that 'might be either' or 'spanning  true  and false' is what fits the supposed criterion of truth (S.E.  M
vii.173-5). 
But Carneades also put his schema to more constructive work. Sextus claims that in some sense he  accepted  that convincing impressions 'spanning true and false'  were  after all the criterion of truth.63 One way of construing 61 Cf. S.E.  M  vii.242-52. 
62 See  M  vii.164; cf. Cic.  Acad.  ii.33-4. 
63 See  M  vii.166; cf. 173-5. Sextus implies that Carneades took this position (as the Pyrrhonists did too:  PH  i.21-4,  M  vii.29-30) out of concern for 'the conduct of life and the attainment of happiness' - i.e. to meet the  apraxia  argument. Antiochus likewise claimed that the Academics made the  pithanon  their criterion, although 'both in the conduct of life and in inquiry and discussion' ( Acad.  ii.32; cf. S.E.  M  vii.435-8). But while Clitomachus agrees in making 'following the  pithanon' the Academic response to the charge of  apraxia (Cic.  Acad.  ii.104), he says nothing about its being the criterion of truth. It seems likely that it was Philo of Larissa (probably the target of the critique launched at  Acad. ii.32: see e.g. Sedley 1983a, 26) who first construed the pithanon  as Carneades'  own  criterion. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
348
a c a d e m i c   e p i s t e m o l o g y
this apparent  volte face  is to see it in terms of controversy with the Stoics. 
On this view what Carneades is saying is:  your  criterion of truth is simply misdescribed by you. The kind of impression you take to be the criterion is not a  cognitive  impression (there is no such thing), but a particularly striking form of apparently true impression which might be true or false. So either the kind of impression you identify as cognitive is not a criterion (because not  in fact cognitive), or - if you insist that it  does  work as a criterion - what your position really reduces to is the view that  convincing  impressions are the criterion. 
But Carneades was not simply showing something about Stoic epistemology and its collapse into a form of 'probabilism', even if the specific evidence of Carneadean endorsement of a 'criterion' is best interpreted as belonging to a dialectical context of that sort. On Clitomachus' presentation of the topic too, it was Carneades' own position that the wise person
'will  make  use  of  whatever  impression  acceptable  in  appearance  he encounters, if nothing presents itself contrary to the acceptability of that impression, and his whole plan of life will be governed in this manner'
(Cic.  Acad.  ii.99).64 Otherwise the  apraxia  argument against the Academy would succeed. If there were no acceptable or convincing impressions life would indeed be impossible, because there would be nothing that could incline us (rightly or wrongly) to one course of action rather than another. 
As will have been clear from the discussion in section v, this position is not in conflict with the Academic view that the wise man does not assent. 
The point is rather that he does not  need  assent or a criterion to live his life: 'following' convincing impressions without assent will su√ce. 
Carneades  had  a  good  deal  to  say  about  what  'following'  convincing impressions involved.65 It would often be a more active and critical business than talk of 'following' initially suggests. If there is time and the matter at issue su√ciently important, the wise person will put his impression through a series of checks - presumably because he is by hypothesis a perfectly rational person, and this is the rational thing to do.66 The checking procedures described are compared to the cross-questioning of witnesses in court or to the scrutiny of candidates for political or judicial o√ce; or 64 At  Acad.  ii.99-101  Cicero  says  he  is  drawing  on  the  first  volume  of  Clitomachus'  four-book work on  epoche-. ii.99 continues by  contrasting  Carneades' wise person with 'the person whom your school [sc. the Stoicizing Antiochus] bring on stage as the wise man'. 
65 See  M  vii.176-89,  PH  i.227-9; cf.  Acad.  ii.35-6. 
66 That this is conceived as a  rational  procedure is argued e.g. by Bett 1989, 76-90; note that the outcome of the fullest testing is said to 'make the judgement most perfect' ( M  vii.181). On this interpretation Carneades' prescription of proper method may be construed as an elaboration of Arcesilaus' recommendation to follow what is rational ( eulogon,  M  vii.158), and not simply as a description of  actual  practice in ordinary life - to which however it is compared ( M  vii.184). 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
c a r n e a d e s '   ' p r o b a b i l i s m '
349
again to the use by doctors of the examination of a syndrome of symptoms,  for  'an  impression  never  stands  in  isolation,  but  one  depends  on another like links in a chain' (S.E.  M  vii.176). An impression which passes such  tests  'undistracted'  ( aperispastos)  becomes  more  convincing,  even though  the  possibility  that  it  is  in  fact  false  can  never  be  excluded.  All Sextus' examples actually involve cases which  fail  examination: e.g. something which on a quick look leaves us convinced that it is a snake 'appears as a rope in virtue of an impression that is convincing  and  scrutinized' ( PH
i.228).67
So much is clear about the theory. Accounts of its details given by our sources are confused and confusing. Cicero operates with a single contrast between acceptable impressions and impressions that are acceptable and
'not impeded' ( quae non impediatur,  Acad.  ii.33:68 his rendering of  aperis-
 pastos,  'undistracted').  But  Sextus  thinks  Carneades  had  a  tripartite scheme: as well as satisfying himself that an impression is 'undistracted'
or 'unimpeded' by the outcome of his checking, the rational person will want  to  ensure  that  it  is  'thoroughly  examined'  ( diexho-deumene-  or   periho-deumene-).  Hence  a  convincing  impression  can  become  not  only  (at  a second stage) more convincing, but (at a third stage) even more convincing. Unfortunately in the two versions of the theory he presents Sextus gives contradictory identifications of the second and third stages he introduces,  and  on  both  occasions  other  aspects  of  his  treatment  are  also unsatisfactory.69
A better if necessarily conjectural interpretation takes Carneades to be envisaging not two possible  stages  in an inquiry into an impression, but simply two  sorts of testing.70 One focuses on its compatibility with other associated  impressions,  and  may  be  taken  as  what  Cicero's  expression
'looking around' ( circumspectio,  Acad.  ii.36) refers to. Here what will have been important is the  content  of the impressions examined. The analogy of a syndrome of medical symptoms seems appropriate to this form of scrutiny.  The  other  kind  of  test  focuses  on  the   background  circumstances involved: when the person having the impression had it, how far he was from the object represented in it, what condition his sensory equipment was in, how long he had to look or hear, etc. This is perhaps what Cicero means by talking of 'elaborate consideration' ( accurata consideratio, ibid.), 67 The version of this example in  M  vii.187-8 claims that after his tests the person following the method 'assents to the fact that it is false that the body presented to him is a snake'. This is one of several places where the account in  M  vii forgets that Carneades' wise person  refrains  from assent, i.e. judging that something is true, and simply 'goes along with' his convincing impressions. 
68 Cf. e.g.  Acad.  ii.99, 101, 104. 
69 Cf. e.g. Mutschmann 1911b. 
70 The following interpretation is due to Allen 1994. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
350
a c a d e m i c   e p i s t e m o l o g y
and what corresponds to the analogy of cross-examination of witnesses or candidates.71 Contrary to what Sextus implies, one might expect that in testing  a convincing impression both  these forms of scrutiny would  be employed simultaneously. And it would be when an impression survives the application of the two together that it would count as 'undistracted'
or 'unimpeded' by possible counter-evidence. 
Partly because Cicero translated the Greek  pithanon, 'convincing', into Latin as  probabile, acceptable, the theory described above has often been construed as a form of probabilism. Denying as he does that we can ever conduct either our lives or our theoretical inquiries on the basis of knowledge, Carneades is seen as proposing that we should take probability as our guide - that is, we should work out what has more chances of being true than not, and let that govern our thoughts and actions. Little in the evidence supports this reading of the theory.72 Cicero's choice of  probabile is designed to connect with use of the verb  probare, 'accept' or 'approve', as  applied  to  the  wise  person's  'acceptance'  of  convincing  impressions without assent. The process of testing by which such impressions are to be  examined  is  certainly  conceived  as  a   rational  procedure.  But  it  is entirely focused on ensuring that the impressions on which we place reliance  in  important  matters  are  internally  consistent  and  not  suspect  on account of some abnormality in the circumstances in which they are experienced. It is not articulated as a form of calculation of the likelihood that they are actually true. No doubt an impression which fails some element of  the  scrutiny  might  seem  less  likely  to  be  true,  but  that  is  not  how Carneades puts the point. He says that what then happens is that some other impression drags or distracts us away from conviction. 
viii Conclusion
The framework of Carneades' thought is entirely Hellenistic: the major presences in his philosophizing are Epicurus, Chrysippus and Arcesilaus. 
We get no sense, as we do with Arcesilaus, of someone standing on the shoulders  of  Socrates  and  Plato.  But  like  Arcesilaus  Carneades  rejected 71 Allen 1994, 98-9, suggests that  circumspectio  may correspond to  periho-deumene- phantasia,  accurata consideratio  to  diexho-deumene- phantasia. 
72 But Sextus makes Carneades say that we should not distrust the impression 'which tells the truth for the most part [sc. that which spans true and false]: for both judgements and actions, as it turns out, are regulated by what holds for the most part' ( M  vii.175). 'As it turns out' suggests that this is not an account of a  calculation  we make in our response to a convincing impression. 
This may be another point at which the dogmatist assumptions of Sextus' source are showing through: see p. 336 n. 36 and p. 349 n. 67. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
c o n c l u s i o n
351
principally Stoic claims about knowledge. Like him, he shared the general Hellenistic hostility to assertion based on mere opinion. And like him he tried to show that it was possible nonetheless to do philosophy and to live one's life in accordance with reason. What Carneades o◊ers is a model of rationality  -  testing  convincing  impressions  and  then  'following'  them without assent to their truth provided they survive the scrutiny - which constitutes an ingenious and attractive alternative to the foundationalist epistemologies which prevailed in the other schools.73 Whether the idea of a rationality without the commitments of assertion is a coherent notion remains a matter for debate.74
73 He suggested that on Stoic premisses reason destroyed itself like Penelope undoing her web (Cic.  Acad.  ii.95)  or  the  octopus  devouring  its  own  tentacles  (Plu.  Comm.  Not.  1059e,  Stob. 
ii.2.20): discussion by Burnyeat 1976, 62-5. 
74 For a sceptical exploration of this question see Burnyeat 1980a; cf. Bett 1989. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
p a r t   i v
P H YS I C S  A N D  M E TA P H YS I C S
*
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
11
Hellenistic physics and
metaphysics
d a v i d   s e d l e y
i Introduction
The Stoics are leading champions of the continuum, the Epicureans its leading opponents. Any such division of Hellenistic schools into continuists  and  discontinuists  provides  a  useful  skeleton,  but  one  which  needs careful fleshing out. 
The Stoic world - like the Aristotelian world before it - is a continuum both  materially  and  structurally:  materially  because  it  contains  no  void gaps, structurally because it is infinitely divisible, or divisible at any point. 
The  Epicurean  world  is  discontinuous  in  both  ways:  materially  to  the extent that it consists of bodies separated by void gaps, structurally both because those bodies are themselves unbreakable ('atoms') and because at a still lower level there is an absolute unit of magnitude not capable of analysis into parts (the 'minimum'). 
In  case  such  a  characterization  should  suggest  that  the  material  and structural continua are inseparably united, it is important to appreciate that this was by no means assumed by the contemporaries and immediate forerunners  of  Epicurus  and  Zeno.  Strato  of  Lampsacus,  head  of  the Peripatos during the later part of their careers, viewed the world as materially discontinuous, thanks to the existence of minute interstitial pockets of void, but as structurally continuous. If, as seems probable, he gave matter a particulate structure, this was in order to account for change, mixture and the like, and his particles were in no obvious sense indivisible. 
The  same  can  probably  be  said  of  the  puzzling  theory  of  'dissoluble lumps' (α3ναρµοι ο3γκοι) proposed by the Platonist Heraclides of Pontus in the mid or late fourth century bc.1 Diodorus Cronus, on the contrary, 1 This assumes that the findings of Vallance 1990, 1-43 on the meaning of α3ναρµοι  ο3γκοι in Asclepiades (see below, p. 605) hold good for Heraclides too. But the matter is controversial: for a  partly  di◊erent  reading  see  Gottschalk  1980,  37-57.  Weakly  particulate  theories  of  matter probably  retained  considerable  currency  in  the  Hellenistic  medical  schools,  but  had  little impact on philosophical discussions. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
356
h e l l e n i s t i c   p h y s i c s   a n d   m e t a p h y s i c s postulated  material  continuity  but  structural  discontinuity.2 Since Diodorus' theory is an integral part of the background to Epicurus' atomism, we shall turn to it first. 
ii Diodorus Cronus3
Although Diodorus is sometimes credited with a  bona fide  physical theory of elements4 - that of 'minimal and partless bodies' - there is no evidence that he had any broader interest in physics and cosmology, and it looks rather  as  if  the  theory  of  minima  was  ancillary  to  his  well-known  four arguments against motion, to which we shall turn shortly. 
The  background  to  Diodorus'  thesis  lies  in  Plato's   Parmenides  and Aristotle,  Phys.  vi. At  Parm.  138d-e it emerges that what is partless cannot move, since it could never be in transition to a new place, that is, part in and part out. Aristotle develops this di√culty in  Phys.  vi.10,5 observing that partless items could be endowed with motion only on the unacceptable supposition that time consists of discrete instants, so that in each successive instant the partless item could occupy a di◊erent place, without there being any intervening time during which the transition occurs: thus it would (unacceptably, Aristotle suggests) be true to say of it that it 'has moved', but never that it 'is moving'. 
Now  when  Aristotle  speaks  of  a  'partless'  item,  he  tends  to  have  in mind  a  geometrical  point,  or  a  temporal  instant,  things  which  have  no extension at all. His main concern is to show that these cannot be constitutive parts of, respectively, magnitudes and periods of time. That something might be partless yet extended is not a possibility Aristotle feels the need to confront explicitly, since he regards it as a mathematical nonsense ( Cael.  303a2-4). It is doubtful whether the early atomists Leucippus and Democritus had made any such strong claims. But Aristotle's contemporary Xenocrates, in the Academy, was developing such a theory - the doctrine of 'indivisible lines' - and we even have a Peripatetic response to it in the  pseudo-Aristotelian  treatise   On  indivisible  lines.  Diodorus,  however, probably Xenocrates' junior, propounded the earliest indivisibilist thesis for which we can reconstruct a plausible theoretical context. 
Diodorus  postulates  ultimate  constituents  of  the  world  which  he names  'minimal  and  partless  bodies'  (ε0λα!χιστα  και' α0µερη4 σω!µατα), 2 So too perhaps Xenocrates, at least according to Aët. i.13.3, i.17.3, in addition to the testimony for his theory of 'indivisible lines': Xenocrates frr. 123-51 Isnardi. 
3 Texts:   SSR  ii f 8-17.  Discussion:  Sedley  1977,  Denyer  1981a,  Sorabji  1983,  16-21,  369-71, Montoneri 1984, 126-40, Döring 1992, M. J. White 1992, 259-69. 
4  SSR  ii f 8-10. 
5 Cf. below, p. 377. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
d i o d o r u s   c r o n u s
357
perhaps  adding  'minimal'  precisely  in  order  to  specify,  with  Aristotle's discussions in mind, that they are partless  yet extended - not mere exten-sionless points, but vanishingly small dots of magnitude, of which larger magnitudes are composed in a sort of granular structure. He attributes a similarly granular structure to place too.6
How  he  defended  the  existence  of  these  minima  is  not  explicitly recorded. But there can be little doubt that the paradoxes of divisibility propounded  in  the  fifth  century  bc by  Zeno  of  Elea  are  their  ultimate inspiration. In particular, Zeno had argued that movement is impossible through an infinitely divisible continuum, since it would involve passing, in sequence, an infinite series of discrete points; and also that an infinitely divisible magnitude, being the sum of its infinitely many parts, would have to be of infinite size (29 a 25, b 1 DK). According to Aristotle, it was Zeno's dichotomy paradox (a name applicable to both these arguments) that first inspired  some  thinkers  to  introduce  'atomic  magnitudes'  (Arist.  Phys. 
vi.187a1-3). Given Diodorus' manifest Zenonian heritage, and Epicurus'
appeal to the same Zenonian paradoxes for his own theory of minima,7 it is hard to doubt that they form at least part of the background to his theory of minima. But there is also, recorded by Sextus Empiricus, one specific argument for spatial minima which may come from Diodorus:8
If something is moving, it is moving now. If it is moving now, it is moving in the present time. If it is moving in the present time, it turns out that it is moving in a partless time. For if the present time is divided into parts, it will be absolutely divided into the past and future, and in this way it will no longer be present. 
If something is moving in a partless time, it is passing through places indivisible  into  parts.  If  it  is  passing  through  places  indivisible  into parts, it is not moving. For when it is in the first partless place, it is not moving, since it is still in the first partless place. And when it is in the second partless place, again it is not moving, but  has  moved. Therefore it is not the case that something is moving. (S.E.  M  x.119-20) The concluding inference about motion will be discussed further shortly. 
Our  present  concern  is  with  the  argument  from  the  partlessness  of  the present to the existence of partless places. The present must be a partless 6 It is better to avoid the term 'atomism', despite its frequent use in connection with Diodorus in modern discussions, since when we come to Epicurus (below p. 374) we will have to maintain a clear distinction between atoms and minima. The term 'atom' is not attributed to Diodorus in the ancient sources. 
7
See below, pp. 374-5. 
8 As argued by Sorabji 1983, 19-21 and Denyer 1981a - even though Sextus himself at  M  x.142-3
appears not to know that its appeal to temporal minima is Diodorean.  Contra,  see Döring 1992, 115. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
358
h e l l e n i s t i c   p h y s i c s   a n d   m e t a p h y s i c s time, it is argued, because any separable parts of it would be hived o◊ into the past or future. This partless time is presumably conceived as an irreducibly  short  period  of  time,  not  a  durationless  instant,  if  the  following argument  is  to  be  intelligible.  For  Diodorus  goes  on  to  argue  that  in  a partless time a moving object must traverse a partless place, i.e. a minimal unit of extension. (That a partless place is conceived by Diodorus as having extension is e◊ectively confirmed at S.E.  M  x.86, where it is said to
'contain' a partless body.) And that could hardly be done in no time at all. 
How does this inference from partless times to partless places work? 
The text leaves us to reconstruct it for ourselves. Within a single partless time, he may mean, it will be impossible to distinguish two or more separate sub-distances traversed in sequence by the moving object, since these would have to be traversed one by one in separate sub-times, and a partless time can contain no sub-times. We must conclude that either (a) the distance traversed in a partless time contains no sub-distances, or (b) it contains  sub-distances  which  the  moving  object  does  not  traverse  or occupy  at  all,  despite  traversing  the  whole.  Of  these,  (b)  sounds su√ciently  absurd  to  commend  (a)  as  the  more  acceptable  conclusion. 
And (a) entails that there are partless units of extension. 
Thus Diodorus' thesis includes partless times, partless places, and partless  bodies.  The  partless  bodies  are  clearly  minimal  three-dimensional units, and since they are said to 'fill' the partless places (S.E.  M  x.86), these latter must also be extended in three dimensions. How does he conceive of 'place'? In the discussion of Diodorus' paradox at S.E.  M  x.95, his anonymous critics take a thing's place to be the body which surrounds it, e.g. 
the air round a person or the jar containing a liquid. But the discussion there is of macroscopic objects, and it is hard to see how Diodorus could have applied any such notion of place to that containing a partless body, since then its place would turn out to be identical with, or to include, the sum of all the partless bodies adjacent to it. If so, its place could not reasonably  be  called  partless.  And  since  the  surrounding  partless  bodies might well be moving with it (if they jointly with it constituted a single solid  object),  Diodorus  would  have  to  abandon  his  analysis  of  a  minimum's motion as transition  from  place  to  place.9 We must therefore take it instead that the partless place which a minimum 'fills' is a three-dimensional stretch of space coextensive with it.10
9 Analogous objections would apply to an Aristotelian-type view of place as the inner  surface  of the containing body. 
10 This implication will be important later, in connection with the origins of Epicurus' notion of space, p. 367. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
d i o d o r u s   c r o n u s
359
Diodorus' objection to the idea of motion is that although we can say that a partless body is now in this partless place, P , now in a neighbour-1
ing partless place, P , it is at no time in transition between P and P . The 2
1
2
reason is that there can be no 'third place',11 that is, one between P and 1
P . It could with equal propriety have been added that the partless body 2
cannot be partly in P , partly in P , for the obvious reason that what is 1
2
partless cannot be 'partly' in anything. 
Diodorus' conclusion is not an absolute outlawing of motion, but the thesis that all motion is staccato. At the lowest level, that of an individual partless body, motion consists of a series of states of rest: it is now in P , 1
now in P , now in P . As Diodorus puts it, following the lead of Aristotle, 2
3
 Phys.  vi.10, it is true to say of a partless body 'It has moved', but never true to say 'It is moving'. Diodorus di◊ers from Aristotle in regarding this paradoxical outcome as a perfectly correct account. He argues at some length for a thesis in tense logic,12 that a proposition may be true in the past tense without ever having been true in the present tense (S.E.  M  x.97-101). I may truly say of two married men 'These men have married' without its ever having been true to say of them 'These men are marrying'.13
The aim of this staccato thesis is to accommodate the evident fact of motion:
Therefore it is not moving. But it stands to reason that it  has  moved. For what was previously observed in this place is now observed in a di◊erent place - which would not have happened if it had not moved. (S.E.  M  x.86) Diodorus must be picturing the world as follows. Space is analysable into innumerable juxtaposed partless granules. Every one of these is occupied by a partless body - for Diodorus explicitly denies the existence of void (S.E.  M  viii.333). This absence of gaps might appear to leave no room for motion to take place. Yet there is nothing to stop a partless body from occupying di◊erent places at di◊erent times, provided that each of those places is simultaneously vacated by the partless body which occupied it at the  preceding  partless  time.  In  the  simplest  case,  two  partless  bodies could just swap places between one partless time and the next: since there was no intervening time, there is no question to be asked about how they manoeuvred round each other in order to get there. In a more complex and more plausible case, a cluster of partless bodies, constituting, say, a 11  M  x.143. The point is never made very clear, and it is curiously absent from the first formulation of the paradox at  M  x.86. 
12 A thesis Aristotle had never actually denied, and indeed had endorsed on other occasions, e.g. 
 Metaph.  Β.1002a28-b11. 
13 Diodorus' 'clearer' example, S.E.  M  x.10 0-1, is altogether ba◊ling. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
360
h e l l e n i s t i c   p h y s i c s   a n d   m e t a p h y s i c s stone, will occupy a succession of such positions in successive times, the partless  bodies  of  the  surrounding  matter  (e.g.  air  or  water)  simultaneously redistributing themselves round it. Thus the visual impression of motion is created, in a world which - in a gesture towards Eleatic thought
- is in fact a long series of static arrangements. A familiar twentieth-century  comparison  is  the  apparent  movement  of  figures  on  video  screen, conveyed by a series of static patterns composed of individual pixels. 
What  is  less  clear  is  how,  in  such  a  world,  di◊erent  stu◊s  can  be di◊erentiated. The Epicurean atomists are able to distinguish stu◊s by the di◊erent shape, size and spacing of their constituent atoms, but Diodorus is denied that luxury, if his particles are all irreducibly small and crammed up against each other. One possible solution is to suppose that they are partless units of irreducibly di◊erent stu◊s - e.g. water, earth and iron -
each with its own ineliminable properties. But there is no real evidence even that Diodorus pronounced on the question, and we must be wary of seeking a cosmological theory in what is primarily meant as a conceptual analysis of body, motion and space. 
This last point can be amplified by considering Diodorus' philosophical lineage. The Dialectical school, of which he was a leading member,14
almost  certainly  considered  itself  Socratic,  being  an  o◊shoot  from  the Megarian  school,  founded  by  the  Socratic  philosopher  Euclides  of Megara. The Megarians themselves clearly made Socratic ethics their philosophical keynote, and above all the thesis of the unity of goodness. But the  Dialectical  school  was  concerned  with  forms  and  methods  of  argument, and in view of its chosen title it seems a good guess that the school considered the special emphasis on dialectical virtuosity to be Socrates'
true legacy. 'The greatest good for man', says Socrates in Plato's  Apology (38a), 'is to hold discussions every day about virtue and about the other things about which you hear me conversing [ dialegomenou, cognate with
'dialectic'] and examining myself and others, and the unexamined life is not worth living for man . . .' Hence we need not be entirely surprised that the school's title 'Dialectical' was taken as expressing its  ethical  orientation (D.L. i.18). But if so, why does Diodorus add a distinctively Eleatic dimension, emulating Zeno of Elea even to the extent of propounding his own four paradoxes of motion, just as Zeno had done?15 Perhaps on the 14 Cf. p. 47, n. 105. 
15 It is sometimes supposed that the Eleatic denial of change was already part of the Megarian tradition, on the strength of Aristotle,  Metaph.  Θ.3. But there the abolition of change is presented by Aristotle as an absurd and unwelcome implication of the Megarians' modal theory, not as their own doctrine. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
d i o d o r u s   c r o n u s
361
authority  of  Plato's   Parmenides,  where  Socrates  is  portrayed  as  himself inviting and receiving a long lesson in what is, in e◊ect, Zenonian dialectic. (We have already noted that Diodorus' arguments about the motion of the 'partless' have their origin in the  Parmenides.) This might well have been read as an indication that if Socratic dialectic was to become a true science it must learn from Eleatic argumentation. 
If this is on the right lines, we should take very seriously Sextus' ascription to Diodorus of mere 'hypotheses' about partless entities. Sextus uses the term 'hypothesis' three times for philosophical theses attributed to Diodorus  ( M  x.85,  10 0,  111)  -  including  that  of  partless  entities  -  yet barely  at  all  elsewhere  for  those  of  other  philosophers.16 Significantly, investigating the consequences of a hypothesis is the hallmark of dialectic as advocated in the  Parmenides. By contrast, the denial of (present) motion is described by Sextus not as Diodorus' hypothesis, but as 'his own doctrine'.17 The  picture  which  thus  begins  to  emerge  from  Sextus  is  of Diodorus advocating, as his own Eleatic doctrine, the denial of (present) motion,  and  basing  it  on  four  arguments,  two  of  which  start  from  the hypothesis of partless entities.18 (For his second argument based on partless entities, see S.E.  M  x.113-17.)
For  the  other  two  arguments  against  motion  attributed  to  Diodorus make no use of the partlessness assumption at all. The better known of these is dilemmatic in form:
If something is moving, it is moving either in the place where it is, or in the place where it is not. But neither is it moving in the place where it is (for it is at rest in it), nor in the place where it is not (for it is not in it). 
Therefore it is not the case that something is moving. (S.E.  M  x.87)19
Why can it not be moving in the place where it is? The text quoted may seem to say that this is because to be in one place  is  to be stationary. But that  would  just  collapse  this  argument  into  Diodorus'  remaining,  and much  weaker,  paradox,  'What  is  moving  is  immediately  in  a  place;  but what is in a place is not moving: therefore what is moving is not moving'
( M  x.112). (This has little plausibility unless the reference is taken to be to being  in  one  place  over  some  period  of  time,  and  that  would  in  turn 16  M  vii.396 seems to be a solitary exception. 
17  M  x.86, οι0κει4ον δο!γµα. That the reference is to the denial of motion, not to the theory of minima, is shown by Döring 1992, 110. 
18 For the debate as to whether Diodorus' thesis of minima was merely a 'hypothesis', as distinct from his own physical tenet, cf. Giannantoni 1990, iv 79-80. 
19 Cf.  PH  ii.242, iii.71. The argument was well known as Diodorus', and should not be assimilated to Zeno's arrow, despite the lead given at D.L. ix.72. The dilemmatic form of the argument is characteristic of Diodorus, cf.  M  x.347. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
362
h e l l e n i s t i c   p h y s i c s   a n d   m e t a p h y s i c s require some further defence, such as the postulation of partless times.) The more satisfactory answer, which can be indirectly recovered,20 is that the object cannot move in the place where it is because it completely fills that place, thus leaving itself no room for manoeuvre. 
iii Epicurean physics
 1. Introduction 21
Epicurus, like Diodorus, has a thesis to propound about a set of ultimate indivisibles. But this time we are dealing with a complete physical system, and  Epicurus'  method  is  to  develop  it  in  linear  fashion  from  a  foundational series of principles, or 'elements'.22 The following order of topics was that of the opening books (roughly books i-x) of his great work  On Nature.  We  can  reconstruct  it  from  the  surviving  epitome,  his   Letter  to Herodotus ( Ep.  Hdt.)  and  amplify  it  further  from  parallel  passages  in Lucretius'  poem.  Chapter  references  from  the   Letter  to  Herodotus  are added in brackets:
(a) The ultimate constituents of the 'all' must be permanent (38-9). 
(b) The ultimate constituents of the 'all' are bodies and space (39-40). 
(c) Other contenders for the role turn out not to exist independently of bodies and space (40). 
(d) The ultimate bodies are atomic (40-1). 
(e) Both body and space are infinite in extent (41-2). 
(f ) The range of atomic shapes is finite, the number of exemplars of each is infinite (42-3). 
(g) The everlasting motion of atoms (43-4). 
(h) The infinity of worlds (45). 
(i) Perception (46-53). 
(j) The properties and sizes of atoms (54-6). 
(k) The ultimate structure of atoms - minima (56-9). 
(l) Atomic motion, simple and in compounds (60-2). 
(m) Soul (63-8). 
(n) The metaphysical status of secondary properties (68-73). 
Here it might be said that (a)-(c) map out the universe with very broad brushstrokes.  (d)-(h)  draw  in  some  basic  dimensions:  the  limits,  or absence thereof, on size, shape and number. (i) explains perception to pre-20 From Sextus' discussion at  M  x.93 and 108-10, and from 86, even though this last is meant to be about partless bodies. 
21 Main texts: Ep.  Ep. Hdt.  as cited directly below, and frr. 266-92 Usener, Lucr. i-iv. 
22 For this term (στοιχει4α, στοιχειω!µατα), see Clay 1973, esp. 258-71. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
e p i c u r e a n   p h y s i c s
363
pare  the  ground  for  (j).  (j)  distinguishes  the  primary  properties,  which atoms cannot lack, from perceptible properties. (k) takes the analysis of atoms  to  its  most  primitive  level.  (l)  explains  how  atomic  compounds function.  (m)  investigates  the  most  advanced  atomic  compound.  (n) stands back and reflects on the metaphysical implications of the foregoing. 
While this may risk overschematizing Epicurus' exposition, we will in what follows see repeated signs of the scrupulous linear ordering of his demonstrations, so arranged as to presuppose nothing which is yet to be proved. 
 2. Conservation
Having set out his empiricist criteria of truth ( Ep. Hdt.  37-8),23 Epicurus opens his physical exposition with a set of laws which underline the permanence of the world's constituents - thus, as it were, underwriting the omnitemporality  of  the  truths  which  will  follow:  'Nothing  comes  into being  out  of  what  is  not.  For  in  that  case  everything  would  come  into being out of everything, with no need for seeds' ( Ep. Hdt.  38). 
The  argument  for  this  is  expanded  by  Lucretius  (i.149-214). 
Everything  that  comes  into  being  must  be  compounded  out  of  things which pre-exist. If instead there were absolute generation from nothing, there  would  be  no  possible  physical  constraints  on  generation. 
Accordingly 'everything would come into being out of everything', that is,  without  restriction  as  to  attendant  circumstances.  These  circumstances  are  listed  by  Lucretius  as  location,  season,  timespan,  sources  of nutrition, and maximum size, all of which are seen in natural processes to be closely circumscribed. Fish are not born on dry land, apples don't grow on peach trees, and nothing grows without nutrition. Epicurus, followed by Lucretius, sums up these regularities by referring to the role of seeds in biology, no doubt on the ground that the growth of a seed to maturity encapsulates all these constraints. We must take it that comparable constraints are meant to apply to inorganic generation (processes of manufac-ture, etc.), but no examples are given.24
Confusion may be caused by the fact that Lucretius, throughout this set  of  arguments,  exploits  the  double  meaning  of  'seeds',  i.e.  biological seeds and also atoms, in order to imply a dependence of natural regularity on the atomic composition of things,25 appealing for example to the fact 23 See above, pp. 262-4. 
24 See also below, pp. 498-503. 
25 'Seeds' are biological at 160, 'atoms' at 176, 185, 221; indeterminate at 169, 189. That 'seeds' can mean 'atoms' Lucretius has already forewarned us at 59. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
364
h e l l e n i s t i c   p h y s i c s   a n d   m e t a p h y s i c s that plants can grow only when and where the right 'seeds of things' flow together to generate them. It is of the utmost importance to see that this, like other covert references to atoms in the same passage,26 is a rhetorical device on Lucretius' part, quite alien to Epicurus' own more severe methodology. Several more steps have yet to be accomplished before the existence  of  atoms  can  be  established.  Epicurus'  own  reference  to  'seeds'
(above) is to be taken at face value, as an appeal to biological regularity.27
Epicurus  continues  as  follows:  'Also,  if  that  which  disappears  were destroyed into what is not, all things would have perished, for lack of that into which they dissolved' ( Ep. Hdt. 39). Lucretius once again amplifies, adding  two  further  arguments  (i.217-24,  238-49):  if  there  were  literal annihilation,  destruction  would  be  an  instantaneous  process,  and  all things,  however  composed,  would  be  destroyed  with  equal  ease.  Both arguments rely on the firmly empirical premiss that destruction is visibly a gradual process, requiring the application of an appropriate force to disintegrate cohesive parcels of matter. 
Here then we have the first two laws of conservation: there is no literal generation from nothing or annihilation. The two principles are as old as philosophy. They underlie the insistence of the sixth-century bc Milesian philosophers on an everlasting primary stu◊. They were defended on idiosyncratic  logical  grounds  by  the  anti-empiricist  Parmenides  in  the  fifth century, and the former of them was invoked as a self-evident truth by his follower Melissus. Many Greek philosophers regarded them as conceptually indubitable laws. Against this background, what is remarkable about Epicurus' defence of them is its determinedly empirical tone. Although appeals to what is conceivable will play a part in some of his later arguments, his pointed empiricism on this opening issue sets a clear keynote for his style of physical speculation. It confirms his seriousness about the empiricist criteria of truth with which he prefaces his exposition. 
Looking ahead, we may feel that this empiricism has at least one unfortunate limitation, namely its restriction to processes of  corporeal  change. 
The laws of conservation are meant to apply equally to space (or 'void'), the second constituent of the 'all' alongside body (see next section). But in practice  none  of  the  arguments  given  by  Lucretius  applies  to  it,  and Epicurus' eventual success in convincing us of the permanence of space will depend on independent considerations, especially its intrinsic inca-pacity to be causally a◊ected (explicitly at Lucr. iii.811-13). 
26  Genitalia corpora,  materies,  corpora prima,  primordia rerum. 
27 As a matter of fact, 'seeds' in Greek lacks the sense of 'primary particles' conferred on it in Lucretius' Latin. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
e p i c u r e a n   p h y s i c s
365
The same issue must be borne in mind when we turn to the following proof:
Moreover, the all was always such as it is now, and always will be. For there is nothing into which it changes, and28 there is nothing over and above the all which could pass into it and produce the change. (Ep.  Ep. 
 Hdt.  39)
The basic claim here is, not of course that the universe does not change at all, but that the sum total (the 'all') of what there is does not change. To understand the grounds for this, we must look at a more explicit formulation, used by Lucretius at a later stage:
. . . the sum of sums is everlasting, and there is no place outside for things to disperse into, nor bodies which might fall into it and break it up by the strength of their impact. (Lucr. iii.816-18)29
Here the argument is clear: the universe cannot be disrupted through subtraction or addition of  bodies, since there is no space outside it for bodies to  move  into,  and  no  bodies  outside  to  enter  it.  In  contrast,  Epicurus'
scrupulousness in avoiding mention of body and space, whose role as ultimate components has yet to be established, typifies his strict linear methodology. 
A critic might ask whether the argument is intelligible without covert assumption of these notions of body and space. For example, wouldn't the same argument be ba◊ling if used to establish the permanence of non-spatial entities like Platonic Forms? To mount a defence of Epicurus' procedure, one must re-emphasize the empiricist criteria of truth with which he prefaces his physical exposition. In that light, the mapping out of the universe into body and space, which will now follow, can be seen less as the introduction of some brand new entities than as the whittling down of an already familiar empirical universe to its most elementary components. 
To sum up, we have now seen Epicurus outlaw any change in the basic composition  of  the  universe,  whether  by  generation  of  new  entities,  by annihilation of existing entities, by removal of parts, or by importation of new parts. As we proceed, it will become clear that he also holds the basic existing items to be absolutely unchangeable qualitatively: if they could change, then the regularities of nature would be seen to change with them. 
Lucretius, at least, objects to qualitative change at the basic level on the grounds that this is tantamount to destruction of the old plus generation 28 The two successive uses of γα!ρ ('for') give two co-ordinate reasons for what is stated in the first sentence: see Brunschwig 1977, 128. 
29 See also ii.304-7 and v.361-3. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
366
h e l l e n i s t i c   p h y s i c s   a n d   m e t a p h y s i c s of the new (i.670-1, 792-3, ii.753-4, iii.519-20). The point is that qualitative change in a compound, e.g. wood becoming fire, can be due to mere redistribution of enduring components, but qualitative change in something  irreducibly  simple  must  be  an  intrinsic  change  in  what  the  thing itself is. The Epicureans' real objection to that is that it would conflict with the perceived stability of nature - an objection we will not encounter until we reach the arguments for atoms. For now, we can simply note that this is one kind of possible change in what the universe consists of which none of their arguments, as reported so far, has ruled out of court. 
 3. Body and space
Moreover, the all is bodies and void. That bodies exist is universally witnessed  by  sensation  itself,  in  accordance  with  which  it  is  necessary  to judge by reason that which is non-evident, as I said above. And if place, which  we  call  'void',  'room',  and  'intangible  substance',  did  not  exist, bodies would not have anywhere to be or to move through, as they are observed to move. (Ep.  Ep. Hdt.  39-40)
That  bodies  exist  is  presented  here  as  inseparably  bound  up  with  the empiricist criteria of truth. The claim, however, is not just that they exist, but that they exist  per se  or as independent substances,30 that is, they are not parasitic on, or reducible to, something more fundamental. Might not bodies  themselves  be  further  analysable,  for  example  (to  adapt  an Aristotelian view of the elements) into combinations of sensible properties like hot, cold, wet and dry? No explicit Epicurean defence against this possibility is recorded. But their clear position is that a property like heat is only intelligible as the hotness  of some body,31 and that the only items in the  world  perceived  as  being  free  of  such  dependence  are  bodies  and space. Bodies, given their ability to move, simply are the most obviously independent items in our experience. And that in turn makes it inescapable that the spaces which they vacate as they move must exist independently of  them. 
A further point to bear in mind is that 'bodies' here is being left as a completely  unrefined  notion,  beyond  the  inescapable  fact  that  they  at least include phenomenal bodies. No talk of atoms has yet been allowed to intrude:  before  atoms  can  be  made  intelligible,  we  need  the  notion  of empty space.32
30 This is more explicit in the expanded version given at Lucr. i.419-48. See below, pp. 369-71. 
31 Cf. below, pp. 380-2. 
32 The  interpretation  of  space  defended  here  (including  the  readings  of  the  Epicurus  and Lucretius texts) is largely that in Sedley 1982a. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
e p i c u r e a n   p h y s i c s
367
Epicurus may seem to conflate, even to confuse, two di◊erent kinds of space, namely 'void' and 'place'. Void is empty, whereas place, in ancient usage, is always  something' s place, i.e. an occupied location, and hence not void. When Epicurus lists four interchangeable terms - 'place' (το!πο), 
'void' (κενο!ν), 'room' (χω!ρα) and 'intangible substance' (α0ναφη' φυ!σι, lit. 'intangible nature') - and adds that the thing in question is needed to provide  bodies  with  somewhere   to  be,  as  well  as  with  movement,  the impression  is  strengthened  that  he  is  failing  to  maintain  a  distinction between full and empty space. 
We may speculate on the motives of this conflation. In his critique of void  in   Phys.  iv.8,  Aristotle  had  raised  the  question  what  happens  to  a stretch of void when a body enters it, supplying the problematic answer that  it  will  have  to  remain  and  become  coextensive  with  the  body.  But how, we may wonder, can it still be 'void'? Epicurus, if he worried about the same question, could hardly respond with the countersuggestion that the void is displaced, or ceases to exist: void cannot be displaced, since it cannot  be  acted  upon  at  all;33 and  to  allow  it  to  cease  to  exist  would contravene the laws of conservation already established. His solution is to accept that void can indeed be occupied by body without ceasing to exist. 
It  does  so,  however,  not   qua  void,  but   qua  space.  His  generic  name  for space is, we are told (S.E.  M  x.2), 'intangible substance'. This is what we might  call  geometrical  space,  or  container  space  -  a  three-dimensional extension which persists whether occupied or unoccupied by body. When it is occupied, it is called 'place'; when unoccupied, 'void'; and when bodies  are  moving  through  it,  'room'  (χω!ρα,  etymologically  linked  with χωρει4ν,  'to  go').  But  according  to  Epicurus,  these  are  inessential di◊erences,  of  little  more  than  linguistic  interest  (Aët. x.20.2),  and  as  a result he makes a point of shifting indi◊erently between them in his own usage. 
Such a conception was not entirely new. Aristotle had already described the notion of geometrical space in order to reject it ( Phys. iv.4), and we have seen that Diodorus must have operated with some such notion of
'place'.34 However, neither Aristotle nor Diodorus allowed the possibility that a place could come to be empty, and it was left for Epicurus to work out and defend the formal relation of identity between place and void. 
The hallmark of this entity - space, as we may from now on call it for our own convenience - is that it is three-dimensionally extended yet non-resistant (hence 'intangible') - properties which are entirely una◊ected by 33 See below, pp. 367-8. 
34 Above, p. 358. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
368
h e l l e n i s t i c   p h y s i c s   a n d   m e t a p h y s i c s the presence, absence or passage of bodies. That hallmark is the basis for the  formal  proof  that  the  'all'  is  exhaustively  analysable  into  body  and space (Lucr. i.430-9). If something has its own independent existence, it is argued, it must have some volume. If a thing with volume is resistant, it is body. If non-resistant, it is space. Therefore all existing things are either body or space. 
This still leaves Epicurus the task of proving that some space is empty -
that there is 'void' in the strict sense. Absolute vacuum was a conception which few of Epicurus' predecessors had thought coherent, the primary exception being the early atomists. In his own day its coherence was generally accepted.35 But it remained in dispute whether there is in fact any vacuum within the cosmos, the Stoics in particular championing the view that there is not. 
Against those earlier thinkers who had held vacuum to be an incoherent notion (for example, because it allegedly requires the existence of the non-existent), or those, like the Stoics, who exclude void altogether from the cosmos,  the  Epicureans  o◊er  an  experiment.36 Take  two  flat-edged objects, juxtapose them, then pull them apart. However fast the air may rush in to fill the gap thus created, it cannot fill the whole of it in no time at all. Therefore a temporary vacuum must be created. 
The arguments for the actual existence of vacuum in the world are also empirical. The phenomena of motion, permeation, and relative weight are only explicable if one supposes there to be void gaps within or between bodies (Lucr. i.329-69). Lucretius cites and counters a favourite response of the continuists (i.370-84), that motion can occur even in a plenum by redistribution, in the way that water redistributes itself round a fish as it swims. Lucretius' reply is that even here there must be void: otherwise the fish could not move forward until the water in front had moved behind it, and the water could not move behind the fish until the fish had already moved - a literal  impasse. Clearly this reply is inadequate, since it fails to allow for  simultaneous  redistribution. (If valid, it would prove too much, e.g. that a wheel cannot rotate, since each segment must wait for the segment in front to move first.) But the real nub of the disagreement lies elsewhere.  Lucretius  is  here  already  anticipating  one  thesis  of  atomism, namely that body  per se  is completely rigid. For in a world of rigid bodies without  gaps  redistribution  would  indeed  seem  either  impossible  or  at least  massively  complex.  The  continuist  opponents  -  who  include 35 At least by the Stoics (below, pp. 395-7) and by the Peripatetic Strato (above, p. 355). 
36 Lucr.  i.384-97,  an  argument  which,  despite  its  presentation  by  Lucretius,  must  have  been designed to show that vacuum can be created, not that it already exists in nature. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
e p i c u r e a n   p h y s i c s
369
Aristotle and, in due course, the Stoics - assume infinitely divisible matter,  which  could  in  principle  be  fluid  through  and  through,  and  hence yielding. We can see in this disagreement the e◊ects of Epicurus' dichotomy between body and space: since, as we have learnt, body's resistance and space's non-resistance are their defining characteristics  par excellence, body  per se  is treated as absolutely resistant,  space  as absolutely non-resistant. Intermediate states, such as softness and fluidity, will be attributed to the presence of void gaps within compound bodies. 
We may end this section by considering Epicurus' exhaustive division of 'the all' into body and space. Since space is not just vacuum but can be coextensive with body, we should not see Epicurus' division as a horizon-tal mapping out of the world into two co-ordinate elements, one negative one  positive,  comparable  to  the  division  of  a  monochrome  computer-screen  into  black  and  white  pixels.  In  the  Epicurean  world,  compound objects are made exclusively of body, and neither space nor, more specifically, vacuum is ever considered a second constituent or element alongside it. Rather, space is analogous to the computer screen itself. It stands in  the  background,  providing  bodies  with  location,  with  the  gaps between them, and with room to move. Body and space are the only two ultimate components of the 'all' in the sense that they alone have  indepen-
 dent  existence. Everything else, we shall learn next, is parasitic for its existence on body and space. But space itself is not parasitic on body, because it continues to exist even when no body is present. 
 4. Elimination of other  per se  existents
At  Ep. Hdt.  40, Epicurus simply adds:
Beyond  these  [i.e.  body  and  space],  nothing  can  even  be  thought  of, either  by  imagination  or  by  analogy  with  what  is  imagined,  as  completely substantial things and not as the things which we call accidents and properties of these. 
At  the  corresponding  point  in  Lucretius  (i.445-82)  we  receive  a  fuller account. Apart from body and space, all other things designated by their own names will turn out to exist not  per se  but as properties of body and void. He lists four such pretenders. The first two are inseparable properties and accidental properties. These, which we will examine more carefully  later,37 are  introduced  here  simply  as  properties  which  are, respectively,  essential  and  inessential  to  a  thing's  continued  existence. 
The thing to which they belong is itself a  per se (⫽independent) existent 37 Below, pp. 380-2. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
370
h e l l e n i s t i c   p h y s i c s   a n d   m e t a p h y s i c s (body as such, or such and such a kind of body, or void), and the point made is that its properties, whether inseparable or separable, are parasitic on it for their own being, that is, they do not exist as further  per se  entities. 
It may be wondered why the distinction between inseparable and accidental properties need have been introduced at all at this stage. One reason  is  no  doubt  that  it  was  needed  for  repeated  use  over  the  coming sections, especially in analysing the primary properties of atoms and those acquired by compounds - even though in our very brief surviving epitome few  explicit  traces  survive.38 Epicurus  may  also,  in  the  original  discussion, have wanted the opportunity to make the important distinction that the separability of a property - such as that of slavery from a human being, as contrasted with the inseparability of tangibility from body - is the ability  of  the  property's  bearer  to  survive  without  the  property,  with  no implication  at  all  that  the  property  can  survive  without  the  bearer.  At least, there can be no doubt that the central message is that for  all  properties, whether inseparable or accidental, sensible or (as in Lucretius' example 'freedom') abstract, to exist just is to belong to some  per se  entity. This states  -  though  in  its  surviving  form  it  does  not  argue  -  a  crucial  anti-Platonic point. For it was Plato's most characteristic doctrine that numerous properties exist primarily  per se  and only secondarily by belonging to spatio-temporal subjects. 
The third pretender to  per se  existence is time. But unlike space, time proves to be parasitic for its existence on bodies:
Time, likewise, does not exist  per se: it is from things themselves that our perception arises of what has happened in the past, what is present, and further what is to follow it next. It should not be conceded that anyone perceives time  per se  in separation from things' motion and quiet rest. 
(Lucr. i.459-63)
The Epicurean Demetrius of Laconia ( c.  10 0 bc)39 explains that time is parasitic on the motion and rest of bodies, and that  measured  time depends in particular on the motion of the sun. Motion and rest are themselves accidental properties of bodies, so time is, according to Demetrius' interpretation of Epicurus, an 'accident of accidents' of bodies.40
Finally, Lucretius adds a most curious fourth pretender: facts about the past (i.464-82), such as the (presumed) fact that the Greeks defeated the 38 Accidental properties occur in the account of soul at  Ep. Hdt.  64 and 67. 
39 Reported at S.E.  M  x.219-27. He appears to be giving a formal analysis of Ep.  Ep. Hdt.  72-3. 
40 'Accident' of accidents presumably because, although it is an inseparable property of all motion that it takes time, it is accidental that any individual motion takes the particular time that it does. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
e p i c u r e a n   p h y s i c s
371
Trojans. It is clear enough why these pose a di√culty for the Epicureans. 
Such facts surely do have continuing existence, in at least as strong a sense as that in which an abstract property like freedom exists. How then can we explain the anomaly that, whereas freedom only continues to exist so long as at least one currently existing  per se  thing is free, the fact that the Greeks defeated the Trojans continues to be a fact even though none of the  per se  things of which it is true - Agamemnon, Priam etc. - still exists? 
Since there is no one around for it to be a property of, it seems to follow that it itself exists  per se, that is, independently of the bodies of which it is true. 
That is the challenge, and the first Epicurean answer is that there  is  still something for such facts to be properties of, namely the world. Let us call this the geographical answer. The fact that there was a Trojan War survives as an accidental property of the world, or more specifically of places like Troy and Mycenae.41 Lucretius then adds an even simpler solution: you can if you like call the fact an accidental property of body and space. 
For  (he  seems  to  mean)  the  body  of  which  the  participants  were  composed, and the space in which they acted, must, as we know by now from the  laws  of  conservation,  still  exist.  We  may  call  this  the  metaphysical answer. 
The attractiveness of the geographical answer is that if I point at the site of Troy and say 'The Greeks razed this city to the ground', I am indeed talking about a property of an existing thing. Historical facts live on  in their present e◊ects 42 (perhaps another such present e◊ect is the  Iliad). If the Epicureans were uneasy with this solution, and felt impelled to add the  metaphysical  answer,  that  may  be  because  of  a  worry  that  truths about the past would otherwise be erased when the present world ceased to  exist.  Thereafter,  only  the  indestructible  body  and  space  would  be available as their bearers.43 The disadvantage of this resort - albeit not a fatal one - is that the disposition of body in the universe at large could not plausibly have its causal history written on it in any way comparable to the site of Troy, and, much worse, space could not have  any  causal history written  on  it,  being  in  the  Epicureans'  own  view  totally  incapable  of being acted upon. 
41 Lucr. i.469-70, 'the world, . . . actual places'. 
42 Note the analogy with the Epicurean position on truths about the future: these exist only if causes  su√cient to bring them about already exist now. 
43 Lucr. i.471-82 may appear to deny facts about the past independent existence merely on the ground that they could not have occurred if there  had not been  body and space. But (a) that would fail to address the stated issue of their  present  existence, and (b) it would invite the retort that in that case body lacks independent existence because it could not exist without space to be in. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
372
h e l l e n i s t i c   p h y s i c s   a n d   m e t a p h y s i c s 5. Atoms
Only now does Epicurus turn to his proof that body is atomic. 
Of bodies, some are compounds, others the things from which the compounds have been made. These latter are atomic [lit. 'uncuttable'] and unalterable - if all things are not going to be destroyed into the non-existent but be strong enough to survive the dissolution of the compounds -
full in nature, and incapable of dissolution at any point or in any way. 
The primary entities, then, must be atomic kinds of bodies. (Ep.  Ep. Hdt. 
40-1)
Epicurus  starts  from  the  undeniable  empirical  fact  that  there  are  compound bodies. If there are compounds, it follows that there must be components.44 Epicurus'  language  here  implies  an  active  notion  of components: not merely items which a compound consists of, but items which have  come together  to constitute it and which will separate when it is destroyed. Given this expectation, it follows in Epicurus' view that there are ultimate components which do not themselves have components. If they  did,  real  destruction  would  be  the  compound's  separation  into those. And if they too had components, and so on  ad infinitum, a thing's destruction  would  be  pulverization  into  sizeless  bits,  i.e.  into  nothing. 
That  would  immediately  contravene  the  second  law  of  conservation, 
'Nothing  is  destroyed  into  nothing'.45 Hence  the  components  of  body must be particles which have not been compounded out of, and cannot be fragmented into, anything smaller. And those are, in a word, 'atoms'. 
How could bodies be breakable at some points but not at others? The atomist  answer  is  that  bodies  can  be  broken  apart  along  void  gaps between  their  constituents,  but  not  elsewhere.  And  in  that  case  what makes  an  atom  atomic  can  only  be  that  it  contains  no  void  gaps  at  all. 
Accordingly  the  binary  mapping  out  of  the  universe  into  bodies  and (partly empty) space46 itself grounds the further refinement that at the lowest level of analysis body is atomic - incapable of further fragmenta-tion.47
Finally  (Lucr.  i.584-98)  this  result  is  confirmed,  in  the  view  of  the Epicureans, by the observed regularities of nature, which seem to survive all individual processes of disintegration.48 Only if all such processes yield matter with absolutely fixed properties can we begin to see how, when 44 Lucr. i.483-4 undermines the force of this implicit inference by reversing the order: 'Some bodies are primary particles, others are composed of a collection of primary particles.'
45 See further Lucr. i.540-64. 
46 See above, pp. 366-9. 
47 See further Lucr. i.503-39. 
48 See Long 1977. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
e p i c u r e a n   p h y s i c s
373
recombined, it should carry on just as before. That means that the ultimate  components  must  be  inherently  unchangeable.  This  the  atoms undoubtedly  are.  The  same  cannot  be  said  for  the  stu◊s  other  philosophers o◊er as elementary - for example, earth, air, fire and water.49
 6. Infinity
The infinity of time is not treated as requiring separate proof. Time, we have seen, exists so long as there are moving bodies, and the demonstration of the permanent nature of what there is can thus with retrospect be seen to have established that past and future time are infinite.50
What  has  now  to  be  explicitly  ( Ep.  Hdt.  41-2)  added  is  that  the  two independent  existents  in  the  universe,  body  and  space,  are  themselves infinite in extent. Epicurus' arguments to this e◊ect are discussed elsewhere in this volume.51 Another aspect of infinity then follows. The number  of  atomic  types  in  the  universe,  although  it  must  be  unimaginably large in order to account for the full diversity of phenomena, is finite; but there are infinitely many tokens of each type ( Ep. Hdt. 42-3). The reason for considering the number of atomic types finite is as follows (cf. Lucr. 
ii.478-531). (i) Within a finite size range only a finite number of atomic shapes can be found; so (ii) if there were infinitely many di◊erent atomic shapes, (iii) there would be an infinite range of atomic sizes. 
(iii) is held to be incredible partly because it would mean 'expanding atoms  to  absolute  infinity  in  their  sizes'  ( Ep.  Hdt.  43).  What  does  this mean? If the conclusion were (as Lucretius takes it to be, ii.481-2) that some atoms would be infinitely large, that would indeed be an objectionable consequence, since the motions and collisions of such atoms would surely be beyond comprehension. But in fact Epicurus seems only entitled to the conclusion that for any given size there would be atoms which exceeded it, and it is not immediately clear why that need be objectionable. He does later explicitly deny that there could conceivably be atoms large enough to see ( Ep. Hdt. 55-6), but the grounds are left obscure.52
49 Lucr. i.665-89, 753-62, 782-829, 847-58. 
50 Lucr.  i.233,  already  appeals  to  the  infinity  of  past  time  in  his  proof  of  the  second  law  of conservation, 'Nothing is destroyed into nothing': otherwise  in the infinity of past time  all matter would have been used up. Since they have already proved that nothing absolutely comes into being,  the  Epicureans  are  indeed  by  now  entitled  to  the  premiss  that  there  has  always  been something in existence. It is enough that they should be careful not to imply anything about the metaphysical status of time at this early stage. 
51 See below, p. 419. 
52 Lucretius' discussion of the same point, referred to at ii.498-9, is unfortunately missing from the text. Of course, such an atom could not be seen in the normal way, see above, pp. 264-9, since it could not give o◊  eido-la; but it could appear as a black patch, obscuring whatever was behind it. The empirical absence of large atoms, which Epicurus mentions, could be attributed to the sorting of di◊erent grades of atom in cosmogony, with the large ones sinking far down below us. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
374
h e l l e n i s t i c   p h y s i c s   a n d   m e t a p h y s i c s The more intriguing question is how Epicurus justifies (i). In the fuller and more explicit treatment given by Lucretius (ii.483-96), the argument relies on the theory that any atom is analysable into a set of minimal magnitudes. There is only a finite series of arrangements into which any given set of these minima can be placed. Here the unstated premiss is that two adjacent minima cannot have their relative position varied by a distance of less  than  one  whole  minimum,  there  being  no  such  distance.  A  useful analogy is with a sheet of graph paper on which you make shapes by filling in whole squares, taken to be the smallest units in the design:53 on a single sheet of graph paper, there will be a finite number of possible shapes, since the positions of adjacent squares relative to each other cannot be indefinitely varied. 
Lucretius has by this stage already introduced the theory of minima, whereas Epicurus at the equivalent point in his exposition has not. This may  explain  why  Epicurus'  own  statement  of  (i)  o◊ers  no  comparable argument. How he justified (i) in the corresponding full exposition in  On Nature  is a matter for speculation. He may have simply referred forward, saying that the point would only be demonstrable once infinite division had been ruled out. That would explain why a scholiast adds to the statement of (i) at  Ep. Hdt. 42-3 the gloss, 'For nor, he says later, does division go on to infinity.'
 7. Minima 54
Epicurus starts by making the first clear distinction in ancient thought between (i) things which are physically indivisible, and (ii) things so small that there  is  nothing smaller, which modern scholarship sometimes calls theoretically,  conceptually  or  mathematically  indivisible,  but  which  in ancient usage are called either 'minimal' (ε0λα!χιστα) or 'partless' (α0µερη4). 
Not only, he says ( Ep. Hdt. 56), (i) can things not be 'cut' to infinity (and here we must remember that atoms are literally 'uncuttables'), as proved earlier, 'but also (ii) we must not consider that in finite bodies there is  tra-
 versal  to infinity, not even through smaller and smaller parts'. 
Traversal  here  means  moving  along  a  magnitude  part  by  part,  the assumption  being  that  by  so  doing  you  pass  every  one  of  its  parts  in sequence.  If  it  contained  infinitely  many  parts  -  even,  he  says,  parts ordered in a convergent series like 1/2, 1/4, 1/8 . . . - you could never com-53 Furley 1967, 41-3. 
54 Texts: Ep.  Ep. Hdt. 56-9; Lucr. i.599-634. Comment: Mau 1954a, Vlastos 1965, Furley 1967, Krämer 1971, Sedley 1976b, Sorabji 1983, Long and Sedley 1987, vol. i, 39-44; M. J. White 1992, 269-80; Purinton 1994. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
e p i c u r e a n   p h y s i c s
375
plete the traversal. This in e◊ect re-applies the old dichotomy paradox of Zeno of Elea55 which, according to Aristotle, had stimulated the original fifth-century atomic theory, and which seems to have been subsequently invoked in defence of mathematical indivisibles by Xenocrates. Epicurus adds the further Zenonian objections that a magnitude consisting of infinitely many parts would itself be infinite (deriving from Zeno fr. b1 DK), and  that  by  thinking  your  way  along  such  a  magnitude  bit  by  bit  you would, impossibly, 'reach infinity in thought', count to infinity.56
By  showing  that  a  finite  body  cannot  contain  an  infinite  number  of parts, Epicurus considers that he has established the existence of an absolutely smallest portion of body. Henceforward he feels entitled to refer to this  as  'the  minimum  in  the  atom':  clearly  it  cannot  be  larger  than  an atom, or it would not be a minimum, so it must be either an entire atom or part of one. (Why it cannot in fact be an entire atom we will learn later.) Aristotle in  Physics  vi had mounted an attack on the idea that partless entities could ever be constituent parts of magnitudes.57 One ground was the di√culty of seeing how two adjacent partless items could be in contact. Not part to part, in the sense edge to edge, since being partless they could  not  have  distinct  parts.  And  not  whole  to  whole  either,  or  they would be coincident, not adjacent. Therefore partless entities could never combine to compose a larger magnitude. This argument gained some currency  in  the  Hellenistic  age.  Whether  it  passed  through  the  hands  of Diodorus is not known, but it was used by the Stoics in defence of continuum theory (Plu.  Comm. Not. 1080e), and in the present passage we find Epicurus o◊ering an ingenious reply to it. 
To  this  end,  Epicurus  o◊ers  an  analogy.  Compare  a  minimum,  the smallest magnitude there is, to 'the minimum in sensation', the smallest magnitude you can see. This must be perceived as partless, since any part of it would be below your visual threshold. If you place a set of these visible minima side by side, they will build up a larger visible magnitude. Yet the interrelation between them as you see it is neither part-to-part contact (you  cannot  see  their  parts),  nor  complete  coextensivity.  How  then  do they combine? 'In their own special way' is the most Epicurus ventures on the matter. Moreover, he adds, any larger visible magnitude will prove to consist of an exact number of visible minima. This last inference seems a sound  one:  when  you  have  divided  a  visible  magnitude  up  into  visible 55 See above, p. 357. 
56 See [Arist.]  Lin. Insec.  968a19-22 for the attribution of a similar argument to Zeno, whether historical or not. For a fourth Epicurean argument in the same vein, see Lucr. i.615-22. 
57 Cf. p. 356 above. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
376
h e l l e n i s t i c   p h y s i c s   a n d   m e t a p h y s i c s minima, there cannot be a fraction of a visible minimum left over, since any such fraction would be invisibly small. 
Therefore real minima, those 'in the atom', can after all be so arranged in relation to each other as to constitute an atom. The analogy shows, at the very least, that Aristotle's list of the ways in which juxtaposition can occur is not exhaustive - we can actually  see  it happening in a third way -
and that his argument against the combination of real minima into larger magnitudes  therefore  fails.  Some  have  further  inferred  that  Epicurus must think of these real minima, the ones 'in the atom', as being 'conceptually' indivisible, with conceiving taken to be itself a kind of mental seeing  analogous  to  literal  seeing.  But  this  is  an  overinterpretation  of  the analogy.  'Conceptual'  or  'theoretical'  indivisibility  is  a  purely  modern import to the debate. The status of Epicurus' minima is an objective one, as  the  smallest  magnitudes  there  are,  and  contains  no  epistemological component. 
Epicurus now specifies one further lesson that the analogy can teach us, and one that it cannot. What we are entitled to infer is that real minima, analogously  to  their  visible  counterparts,  are  exact  submultiples  of  all larger magnitudes. The reason is clear: when a magnitude has been analysed into component minima, there could not be  part  of a minimum left over.  Now  this,  as  Epicurus  is  well  aware,  is  a  radical  proposal  which undercuts the basis of conventional geometry. Mathematicians had long known that geometrical figures contain incommensurable lengths, most notoriously the side and diagonal of a square. According to the Epicurean theory, there can be no incommensurable lengths, since all have a common submultiple. It follows that geometry is dealing with impossible figures: the world can contain no perfect squares. 
That Epicurus drew and accepted this consequence is likely, since he is said  to  have  persuaded  his  leading  pupil  Polyaenus,  formerly  a  distinguished  mathematician,  to  reject  geometry  as  false.58 It  may  be  more accurate  to  say  that  Polyaenus  challenged  the  basis  of  geometry,  while leaving open the technical possibility that an Epicurean rescue of it could be launched. There are two grounds for this. First, although some later Epicureans continued to reject conventional geometry, others did apparently practise it,59 and since Polyaenus had authoritative standing in the school as one of the four founding fathers they could not have done so if he  had  unambiguously  outlawed  it.  Second,  Polyaenus  wrote  a  mathematical work called  Aporiai, 'Puzzles', and that these were interpretable as 58 On the Epicureans and geometry see below, pp. 587-90. 
59 Evidence in Sedley 1976b. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
e p i c u r e a n   p h y s i c s
377
soluble puzzles is shown by the surviving fragments of reply to them by the  late  second-century  bc Epicurean  Demetrius  of  Laconia,  Reply  to Polyaenus' Puzzles (Προ' τα' Πολυαι!νου 'Απορι!α).60
Finally Epicurus draws the limits of the analogy. Although minima are the components of larger magnitudes, they di◊er from visible minima in not being  movable  components. That is, no minimum is a discrete component which can be detached and relocated. Or, to put it another way, no atom is constituted by a single minimum. 
Why not? Lucretius (i.599-608) argues that minima, or 'extremities', are in their very nature parts of larger magnitudes. But while it is true that the  Epicureans  do  consider  the  extremities  of  magnitudes  to  be  three-dimensional minima rather than points or two-dimensional surfaces, it is equally  clear  that  not  all  minima  are  extremities,  since  most  will  be located somewhere inside atoms. It is hard to see, therefore, how they can be  functionally  relegated  to  the  status  of  mere  edges,  and  denied  the power  of  discrete  existence  on  that  score.  Epicurus'  own  comment, though brief, puts emphasis on the impossibility of minima having the power of independent motion. And this sounds more promising, since it pointedly  recalls  an  argument  of  Aristotle's  in   Phys.  vi,  a  book  which seems  either  directly  or  indirectly  to  have  influenced  the  Hellenistic debate  on  minima  from  Diodorus  on.61 In  chapter  10,  Aristotle  argues that something partless (he is thinking of a geometrical point) could never be in motion, other than incidentally to the motion of a larger body: it could never, in its own right, be in transition from one place to another, since  only  something  with  parts  can  be  in  the  process  of  crossing  any given  boundary.  If  Epicurus  accepts  this  reasoning,  it  provides  just  the right rationale for his view that minima can only move by courtesy of the motions of the atoms they help to compose, while the atoms themselves, to be mobile, must have parts. 
The reason why the analogy with visible minima breaks down here will no doubt be the following. A discrete visible minimum - say a vanishingly small falling speck of dust - might have been supposed never to be in the process of transition, for just the same reasons as apply to actual minima. But that surmise does not correspond to visible fact. The series of distinct locations which it occupies constitute a smooth continuous visible  transition. And an important methodological point, emphasized by Epicurus in a similar context soon after ( Ep. Hdt. 62), is that, where the visible  pattern  of  motion  is  disanalogous  to  what  reason  shows  must 60 Angeli and Dorandi 1987. 
61 Cf. above, pp. 356, 359. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
378
h e l l e n i s t i c   p h y s i c s   a n d   m e t a p h y s i c s obtain at the microscopic level, we must say that the fault lies in the analogical inference, and not - contrary to the most basic tenet of Epicurean canonic - that the appearance is false. 
*
We now encounter a small complication. In  Physics  vi.10 Aristotle's objection to the motion of partless items takes the form of a disjunction:  either (i) they will only move incidentally to the motion of a larger body,  or (ii) they will move in staccato fashion, so that you can only say 'It has moved', never 'It is moving'. The latter Aristotle takes to be impossible, especially since  it  would,  so  he  claims,  require  time  to  consist  of  discrete  'nows', with  each  location  occupied  in  a  successive  'now'.  We  have  seen  that Diodorus  decided  to  opt  for  the  second  horn  of  Aristotle's  dilemma, defending both the staccato theory of motion and all the consequences imputed to it. And while Epicurus in the  Letter to Herodotus, as we have now seen, appears to choose the first horn of the dilemma, and shows no sign of a staccato theory of motion, there is also evidence for his school's accepting the latter. Simplicius reports:
That this obstacle which Aristotle has formulated is itself not entirely beyond belief is shown by the fact that, despite his having formulated it and produced his solution, the Epicureans, who came along later, said that this is precisely how motion does occur. For they say that motion, magnitude and time have partless constituents, and that over the whole magnitude composed of partless constituents the moving object moves, but that at each of the partless magnitudes contained in it it does not move but  has  moved; for if it were laid down that the object moving over the whole magnitude moves over these too, they would turn out to be divisible. (Simp.  Phys.  934.23-30)
If this is to be believed, we must take it that at some date after the composition (perhaps  c.  306 bc) of the  Letter to Herodotus  either Epicurus or followers of his concluded that choosing the first horn of the Aristotelian dilemma  did  not  save  them  from  its  second  horn.62 The  influence  of Diodorus looks evident here. Diodorus had not only adopted the second horn, but had defended it as logically respectable.63 And he had drawn attention to the need for space, along with body, to be analysed into minima. Once this latter point was accepted, it must have become evident that the staccato analysis was inevitable. Even if minima were safely ensconced within larger bodies, the atoms, each atom would as a whole have to move 62 On the date of the  Letter to Herodotus  see Sedley 1976b, 45-6, n. 73. 
63 Cf. above, p. 359. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
e p i c u r e a n   p h y s i c s
379
one spatial minimum at a time, so that its motion could not but be staccato. It fits in with this that, although the  Letter to Herodotus  contains no theory of time minima,64 such a theory did eventually become school doctrine.65 Here again the positive influence of Diodorus may be discerned. 
Aristotle had also argued ( Phys.  vi.2) that di◊erences of speed depend on  the  infinite  divisibility  of  time  and  magnitude.  Compared  with  the time taken by the slower of two objects to move a given distance, there must always be a shorter time which the faster object will take. And for any  distance  covered  by  the  faster  object  in  a  given  time,  there  must always be a smaller distance which the slower object will cover in the same time.  This  would  become  impossible  if  time  or  magnitude  were  only finitely  divisible.  Although  it  is  not  known  whether  Diodorus  took account of this argument, it too seems to have filtered through eventually to  the  Epicureans,  since  Simplicius  ( Phys.  938.17-22)  reports  that  they accepted both it and its consequence, that there are no real di◊erences of speed. This  time, however, it  was a  welcome confirmation of what was already  school  doctrine.  In  the   Letter  to  Herodotus (61-2)  Epicurus  had already argued that at the atomic level all speed is equal, but on the quite independent  ground  that,  since  they  move  in  a  vacuum,  there  is  no obstructive medium to enforce di◊erences of speed.66
 8. Properties 67
Atoms have only the ineliminable properties of all body: resistance, size, shape and weight. That they lack the perceptible properties - colour, flavour etc. - is argued on three main grounds. (i) These are not ineliminable from the conception of body, as any blind person will confirm in the case of colour (Lucr. ii.739-47). (ii) Such properties are inherently unstable, whereas atoms were postulated as something totally unchangeable underlying all change (Ep.  Ep.Hdt.  54). (iii) The atomic theory gains in explanatory power if we suppose that perceptible properties are generated only out of arrangements of atoms: for instance, if the sea were blue because it consisted of blue atoms, it would become harder to explain why its surface, when ru◊led, becomes white (Lucr. ii.757-87). 
This last point, the explanatory elegance of the atomic theory, is elaborated at some length by Lucretius (e.g. i.814-29, ii.381-477). Just as the 64 The δια' λο!γου θεωρητοι' χρο!νοι of  Ep. Hdt.  47 and 62 have sometimes been thought to be minima, but the phrase implies only that they are microscopically small, and nothing in the contexts requires that they should be partless. 
65 Long and Sedley 1987, vol. ii, 46. 
66 See below, p. 421. 
67 Texts: Ep.  Ep. Hdt. 54-5, 68-73, Lucr. i.449-82, ii.381-990. Bibliography: Sedley 1988. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
380
h e l l e n i s t i c   p h y s i c s   a n d   m e t a p h y s i c s small  number  of  letters  in  the  alphabet  can  be  rearranged  to  make  an indefinite number of words, so too the same atoms can be rearranged to produce quite di◊erent macroscopic properties. And those phenomenal properties can comfortably be explained by the type and arrangement of the underlying atoms. For example, the di◊ering fluidity and powers of penetration witnessed in light, fire, water and oil are attributable to the varying size and smoothness of their constituent atoms. Bitter tastes correspond to jagged atoms, pleasant tastes to rounded ones, each having a di◊erent  e◊ect  on  the  tongue.  Colours  are  taken  to  have  an  analogous explanation, in the types and arrangements of the atoms making up the
'images' (ει3δωλα) travelling from the external object to the eye.68
*
It would be a tempting, but mistaken, inference that, for Epicurus as for Democritus  before  him,  colours  and  other  perceptible  properties  are nothing  more  than  atomic  configurations.  That  reductionist  move  is never made by any Epicurean, and it is ruled out by what Epicurus says about the status of such properties ( Ep. Hdt.  68-71; cf. Lucr. i.449-58, S.E. 
 M  x.219-27): that they are real, yet have no existence at the microscopic level. 
Properties come in two types. Generically they are just called 'properties'  (συµβεβηκο!τα),  but  specifically  they  divide  up  into  'permanent accompaniments'  (τα' α0ι!διον  παρακολουθου4ντα,  in  Lucretius'  Latin coniuncta) and 'accidents' (συµπτω!µατα, in Lucretius  eventa). They are distinguished as, respectively, ineliminable and eliminable properties of the items they are said to belong to. Importantly, those items are not confined either to the level of atoms and void, or to that of macroscopic body. 
Although in a causal context Epicureanism privileges the atomic over the phenomenal, since it is normally atomic change that causes phenomenal change and not vice versa,69 metaphysically it shows no sign of imposing any  such  disparity.  A  permanent  property  may  be  located  purely  at  the level  of  atoms,  as  unbreakability  is.  Or  it  may  belong  ineliminably  to  a phenomenal object or stu◊ - as heat does to fire, though not to the atoms which constitute fire, atoms being neither hot nor cold. Or it may belong equally at both levels, in the way that resistance belongs to all bodies, both atomic and phenomenal. 
Epicurus first introduced these properties in order to discount them as per se  existents.70 But when he reverts to the topic much later in the  Letter 68 See above, pp. 273-4. 
69 For a possible exception see pp. 523-4. 
70 See above, pp. 369-70. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
e p i c u r e a n   p h y s i c s
381
 to  Herodotus (68-71),  having  in  the  mean  time  established  a  physical account of both atomic and phenomenal properties, his purpose is to reassess their ontological status (along with that of time, 72-3) in more positive terms. 
With regard to permanent properties, he steers a careful course (68-9). 
(i) They do not exist  per se. (ii) Nor are they non-existent. (iii) They are not separate incorporeal items which have come to belong to some body. (iv) They  are  not  its  constituent  parts,  in  the  way  that  atoms  are.  (v)  The body's nature does nevertheless in a way consist of them. Here (i) recurs to  the  earlier  proof  that  only  bodies  and  space  exist   per  se;  (ii)  rejects  a sceptical  reductionist  position,  often  attributed  to  Democritus,  that nothing but atoms and void is real, all the contents of experience being merely some arbitrary or conventional construction placed upon them by human minds and sense organs; (iii) denies, either specifically or  inter alia, the Platonic theory of separated Forms;71 (iv) could conceivably be targeted at a Stoic theory of qualities,72 although it would be a little surprising to find an Epicurean response to Stoicism at so early a date; and (v) alone  gives  Epicurus'  own  position  -  that  permanent  properties  are  a thing's constituents, but in the non-material sense that they are the (conceptual  or  logical?)  constituents  of  its  nature.  We  might  here  think  of Epicurus'  own  characterizations  of  man  as  'such  and  such  a  form,  plus animation' (S.E.  M  vii.267), and of body as a combination of size, shape, resistance and weight (S.E.  M  x.240). 
He then turns to accidental properties ( Ep. Hdt. 70-1). These (i) have no existence  at  the  microscopic  level;  (ii)  are  not  incorporeal;  (iii)  lack  the nature that the whole body has; (iv) are not non-existent; (v) do not exist per se; (vi) are in reality just as they present themselves to our perceptions. 
Here  (i)  and  (iv)  are  especially  important.  Atoms  have  no  properties except permanent ones, so that accidents, including all sensible properties,  must  exist  only  at  the  macroscopic  level.  A  thing's  colour,  then, although  caused  by  its  atomic  configuration,  is  not  a  property  that belongs to it at the atomic level. Yet, where Democritus might well have concluded directly that colour is unreal, Epicurus declines to make that move, in line with his general refusal to privilege the atomic ontologically over the macroscopic. If then they are real, what sort of reality do they have? Not (v) as  per se  existents, since they are evidently parasitic on the bodies they belong to; therefore not (ii) as incorporeals either, since that 71 For Epicurus' term here, ε3τερο ('other'), used of the separateness of Platonic Forms, see especially Plato  Phd.  74a-c. 
72 See below, pp. 402-3. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
382
h e l l e n i s t i c   p h y s i c s   a n d   m e t a p h y s i c s term is properly only applied to  per se  existents, with void the sole true claimant to it ( Ep. Hdt.  67). All that he can tell us positively is (vi) that the way we experience them coincides with their true nature, and that perception  actually  'makes'  their  individual  character  (ι0διο!τη). We might take this to mean that redness, for example, is not even in theory analysable  into  anything  altogether  mind-independent,  whether  an  atomic structure or anything else - that what we experience as redness is, irreducibly, what redness actually is.73
It  is  hard  to  go  further  on  the  basis  of  this  di√cult  and  highly  condensed text. But one general implication should be clear. Epicurus has a split-level ontology. The properties of atoms are of special importance to natural philosophers, because of their explanatory role. But atomic structures are not the only real structures. The macroscopic world which we experience from birth as pleasant and painful, and on which all our valua-tions are consequently focused, has just as much claim to reality. 
A matching ontological point is made by Polystratus, third head of the Epicurean school. Many properties of things, including values, are relative  to  a  given  observer,  and  not  the  same  for  everybody.  There  was  a familiar sceptical inference that they are therefore not part of the objective nature of things at all. Polystratus ( De Contemptu  23-6) replies that some relative items, such as the nourishing and the fatal, have too obvious a causal e√cacy to be thought unreal (if you think hemlock is not 'really'
fatal for humans, try swallowing some). While relative items are undoubtedly di◊erent from absolute ones, he adds, that in itself gives us no more reason to argue from the reality of absolutes to the unreality of relatives than from the reality of relatives to the unreality of absolutes. 
iv Stoic physics and metaphysics74
 1. Introduction
Unlike the case of Epicurean physics, for Stoic physics we do not have any text which  argues  for the theory from first principles. But the presentation of it, at least, did follow some such sequence, as is clear from Diogenes Laertius'  report  (vii.132)  that  they  divided  physics  into  the  following sequence of topics: bodies, principles, elements, gods, limits, place and void. 
73 Plutarch reports Epicurus (fr. 30 Usener) as saying that colours, although caused by atomic configurations, are 'relative to vision'. However, it is unclear how such accidents as motion (cf. 
p. 370 above) could be relativized in any comparable way. 
74 General studies: Sambursky 1959, Hunt 1976, Hahm 1977, Lapidge 1978. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
s t o i c   p h y s i c s   a n d   m e t a p h y s i c s 383
The sequence corresponds to that in which the topics will be treated below, and it forms a highly appropriate order of exposition, although for the purposes of the present volume 'gods' will be taken separately.75 Very much as in Epicureanism, the opening topics map out the cosmos, as it were,  whereas  what  will  then  follow  tackles  the  range  of  metaphysical questions which this world-picture can give rise to - the status of time, predicates, universals and so on. 
 2. Bodies 76
This  opening  heading  introduces  the  primary  furniture  of  the  world. 
Only bodies 'are'. So strong is the Stoics' commitment to their view of the world as an interactive whole that only items with the power to interact are deemed to constitute it, and these are in turn identified with bodies. 
This thesis had been put on the map by the 'Giants', often called the
'materialists', whom Plato opposes to the 'Gods' or idealists in the  Sophist. 
The Giants initially insist on confining being to bodies. But they are persuaded to reconsider, once it has been pointed out to them that they seem to  be  outlawing  justice  and  other  virtues  and  vices  from  'being',  along with the souls in which these qualities inhere - for surely none of these things can be corporeal. Plato suggests that this will lead them to substitute a new hallmark of being in place of corporeality, namely the capacity to act or be acted upon. 
The Stoic response is a bold one. It is to recombine the Giants' original and their revised criterion of being. It is bodies, and bodies alone, that have the capacity to act or be acted upon (S.E.  M  viii.263). Body is defined as  'what  has  threefold  extension  along  with  resistance'  (cf.  [Gal.]   Qual. 
 Incorp.  19.483.13-16k),77 and  it  is  argued  that  only  something  of  that nature could be a party to causal interaction. If the soul interacts with the body, Cleanthes argued (Nemes. 21.6-9) - as it does when it responds to the body's su◊erings, or when its shame makes the body blush - it must itself be corporeal. And since not only our souls but also their moral qualities, such as justice, have the capacity to act upon our bodies, the Stoics infer that they too must be corporeal. The same will apply to the world as a whole: its wisdom and other moral qualities are its primary governing features. 
Hence being can after all, and must, be limited to bodies. Bodies alone, that  is,  interact  to  constitute  a  world.  Other  items,  such  as  space  and 75 See below, ch. 13. 
76 Texts:  SVF  ii 357-68. Comment: Goldschmidt 1979, Brunschwig 1988a. 
77 Cf. also the Epicurean analysis of body above, p. 381. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
384
h e l l e n i s t i c   p h y s i c s   a n d   m e t a p h y s i c s time,78 can at best provide the background against which the world operates. In themselves they are causally inert. 
The answer to the further question of  how  souls and their moral qualities can be corporeal will emerge piecemeal in what follows. In outline, it is that virtue is identical with a soul in a certain condition; and that the soul itself is  pneuma, which, as well as being intrinsically active and intelligent, also has corporeality, thanks to which it can act upon the body.79
This last point is important to bear in mind. Although all that makes a body a body is its solidity, it cannot be inferred that body in itself possesses no properties other than material properties of bulk, weight, position  in  space  etc.  That  way  lies  extreme  materialism,  the  strategy  of reducing  such  non-material  properties  as  life  and  intelligence  to   purely material entities - entities, e.g. atoms, which have material properties  and no others. The Stoics are far from being materialists in any such sense. In their  world,  body  is  alive  and  intelligent  all  the  way  down.  It  needs  its interactive powers simply in order that the dictates of intelligence can be put into practical e◊ect, but those powers do not exhaust its properties. 
Just how it comes to possess life and intelligence as irreducible properties we will learn in the next section. 
 3. The principles 80
At the lowest level of analysis, the world is a combination of two ultimate  and  indestructible  bodily  principles  (α0ρχαι!),  matter  and  god. 
These are never found in actual separation, but they must nevertheless be  separated  in  thought  if  we  are  to  understand  the  causal  relations underlying processes of change.81 Body, we have seen, is characterized by the power to act  or  be acted upon. The most overt causal processes (cf. 
Sen.  Ep. 65.3-4) are those in which one discrete body is seen to act upon another, each having some capacity to play an active and a passive role. 
But change at the most fundamental level is to be sought within a single discrete body, whether an individual organism or the world as a whole, and there too we must ask what is acting upon what (Sen.  Ep. 2, 23-4; cf. 
S.E.  M  ix.75-6, quoted below). The answer (cf. Sen.  Ep.  65.2) is that the immanent principle god, defined by its power to act, is acting upon the principle matter, defined by its power to be acted upon. In any physical process a portion of matter, the essentially passive and formless locus of change, is altered by god, the intelligent creative force which imbues it 78 Cf. below, pp. 395-40 0. 
79 See below, pp. 387-9 and 562-72. 
80 Texts:   SVF  ii 299-328.  Comment:  Graeser  1975,  Sandbach  1989  (1975)  71-5,  Hahm  1977, 29-56, Todd 1978, Lapidge 1973 and 1978. 
81 See below, pp. 435-6, 481-3. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
s t o i c   p h y s i c s   a n d   m e t a p h y s i c s 385
through  and  through  and  endows  it  with  whatever  properties  it  may have. 
There are obvious analogies with Aristotelian form and matter, especially if one (controversially) attributes to Aristotle a theory of prime matter. For Stoic matter certainly is prime, in the sense that it is viewed as being in itself totally without qualities - 'unqualified substance' (α3ποιο
ου0σι!α,  D.L.  vii.134).  But  the  Aristotelian  analogy  is  of  limited  value. 
First,  the  Stoic  principles  are  themselves  corporeal,82 and  owe  to  this their power to interact. (Body is defined as that which has the capacity to act   or  be  acted  upon,  thus  carefully  allowing  god  and  matter,  each  of which  has  just  one  of  these  two  capacities,  still  to  count  as  bodies.) Second, and in keeping with this, god is never identified with the  form  present in the matter (e.g. with its shape or colour), but imbues the matter as the intelligent craftsman of that form. He is immanent in the matter, not qua  its form, but because, all causation being by bodily contact, his causal capacities would be drastically threatened if he were transcendent in the manner of the Aristotelian god. 
Surprisingly  it  is  Plato,  not  Aristotle,  who  stands  in  the  immediate background. Far from being an outright rejection of Platonism, the Stoic twin principles were almost certainly seen as a development or interpretation of it. It is the Platonic, not the Aristotelian, god who is viewed as a creative causal agent. And by Zeno's day there was a current reading of the  Timaeus, accepted by Theophrastus ( ap. Simp.  Phys. 26.5-15), according to which Plato posits two 'principles', (a) 'matter,' and (b) 'a moving cause which he connects with the power of god'. 'Matter' here is simply a technical rendering of the 'receptacle' posited by Plato as the matrix on which form is imposed by god. The identification of god with an  immanent causal principle may look like a curious way of reading the  Timaeus. They probably  had  in  mind  not  Plato's  divine  craftsman  (often  regarded  by ancient interpreters as a fiction), but the world soul, which at 34b is said to extend throughout the world and to make it, as a whole, a god. What Stoicism adds is the need for this causal principle to be corporeal - and even that, as we have seen has an origin in Platonic debate.83
Also more Platonic than Aristotelian in spirit is the Stoic argument for the ultimacy of god as causal agent, reported by Sextus:
82 D.L. vii.134: σω!µατα ει:ναι τα' α0ρχα!, repeated in the  Suda  with the controversial variant reading α0σωµα!του. For the corporeality of the principles, cf. Calcidius 293. They are never listed among the Stoic incorporeals (below, pp. 395-402), and if they were incorporeal they would lack 'being', contrary to the regular designation of matter as ου0σι!α, 'substance', literally
'being'. See below, p. 407. 
83 Above, p. 383. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
386
h e l l e n i s t i c   p h y s i c s   a n d   m e t a p h y s i c s The substance of what exists, they say, since it is without any motion from itself and shapeless, needs to be set in motion and shaped by some cause. For this reason, when we look at a very beautiful bronze we want to know the artist (since in itself the matter is in an immobile condition), so when we see the matter of the universe moving and possessing form and structure we might reasonably inquire into the cause which moves and shapes it into many forms. It is not convincing that this is anything other than a power which pervades it, just as soul pervades us. 
Now this power is either self-moving or moved by some other power. 
But  if  it  is  moved  by  another  power,  this  second  power  will  not  be capable of being moved unless it is moved by a third power, which is absurd. So there exists a power which in itself is self-moving, and this must  be  divine  and  everlasting.  For  either  it  will  be  in  motion  from eternity, or from a definite time. But it will not be in motion from a definite time; for there will be no cause of its motion from a definite time.  So,  then,  the  power  which  moves  matter  and  guides  it  in  due order into generations and changes is everlasting. So this power would be god. (S.E.  M  ix.75-6)
This argument explains that, being both creative and everlasting from all eternity, the active principle is naturally to be identified with 'god'. And in doing so it presents it as a kind of immanent self-mover. This looks back to Plato's thesis in the  Phaedrus (245-6) and  Laws (896-9) that all motion must originate in  self-moving soul, rather than to Aristotle's doctrine of god as a transcendent  un moved mover. 
The twin principles are the only items in the Stoic universe which have permanent  being,  surviving  as  they  do  even  through  the  periods  of
'conflagration' which punctuate distinct world-phases.84 Change is their realignment in relation to each other, not their creation or destruction, even  in  part  (e.g.  D.L.  vii.134,  Ar.  Did.  ap.  Stob.  i.132.27◊.).  To  this extent they play the role fulfilled in Epicureanism by atoms and void, and which in early Presocratic cosmologies had been fulfilled by the primeval underlying stu◊ (air, fire, etc.) held to survive all change. This probably accounts  for  the  Stoics'  choice  of  the  term  'principles'  (α0ρχαι!),  standardly used to designate these Presocratic substrates. In fact, their adoption  of  'god'  as  an  immanent  bodily  principle  which  is  nevertheless divine looks very much like a conscious reversion to Presocratic cosmology,  and  in  particular  to  Heraclitus,  on  whose  thought  Stoic  physics draws at many points.85
84 See below, p. 434-9. 
85 Long 1975-6. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
s t o i c   p h y s i c s   a n d   m e t a p h y s i c s 387
 4. Active and passive elements 86
In listing four elements - earth, air, fire and water - the Stoics place themselves in a tradition which by their day included Empedocles, Plato and Aristotle. But they are closer to these latter two to the extent that, like them, they do not regard the elements as absolutely primary ingredients of the world, but as themselves further analysable downwards to an even more fundamental level, at which they are finally resolved into the two principles matter and god (pp. 384-6 above). The value of the elements is that - unlike the irreducibly primitive matter and god, theoretical constructs whose explanatory role is purely general - they represent the stratification of the world, from earth at the centre to fire at the periphery, and its main processes of climatic and other change, at a level at which they can be directly observed. The details of these processes, along with the special cosmic role of fire, will be considered separately below.87 For now, it is important to bear in mind just that the elements are generated out of matter and god, that they are the stu◊ of which all more complex substances are composed, and that they have some capacity for intertransfor-mation:
In the beginning all by himself he turned the entire substance through air into water. Just as the sperm is enveloped in the seminal fluid, so god, who is the seminal principle (σπερµατικο'  λο!γο) of the world, stays behind as such in the moisture, making matter serviceable to himself for the successive stages of creation. He then creates first of all the four elements: fire, water, air, earth. (D.L. vii.135-6)
The Stoics analyse all causal processes as involving one body acting upon another.88 Hence when, as most often, causal analyses are focused on the elements, the Stoic practice is to distinguish them functionally into active elements, with a causal role analogous to that of 'god' at the primary level, and passive elements, with a primarily material role. Like the 'principles', the  passive  elements  are  held  to  be  entirely  permeated  by  one  or  both active ones. All this applies equally to individual organisms, to the world at large, itself regarded as a living and intelligent organism, and to discrete inorganic  entities:  all  owe  both  their  cohesion  and  their  qualities,  vital and other, to the active elements. 
As  for  which  elements  are  active,  Stoicism  seems  to  embody  two di◊erent  traditions.  One,  perhaps  the  earlier  of  the  two  and  developed 86 Texts:  SVF  ii 412-62. Comment: Verbeke 1945, Solmsen 1961, Hahm 1977 and 1985. 
87 See below, p. 440. 
88 See below, pp. 481-3. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
388
h e l l e n i s t i c   p h y s i c s   a n d   m e t a p h y s i c s especially by Zeno's colleague and successor Cleanthes, echoes Heraclitus in selecting fire as the governing element. Fire is thought of not just as a destructive force - the variety which the Stoics call 'uncraftsmanlike fire', πυ4ρ  α3τεχνον. It also takes the form of 'craftsmanlike fire' (πυ4ρ  τεχνικο!ν), embodying the creative forces of warmth and light which are seen to be basic to life, and especially associated with the rarefied fiery stu◊ of the  heavens,  'aether'.  Since  the  world  as  a  whole  is  considered  a  living thing, fire can account for its creation, its vital properties, and its eventual periodic destruction.89 Consequently one guise in which Stoicism from an early date represents god, or nature, is as 'intelligent, a craftsmanlike fire which proceeds methodically in making the world, embracing all the seminal principles in accordance with which individual things are fated to come about' (Aët. i.7.33). 
The  second  tradition  which  Stoicism  incorporates  picks  out   pneuma, literally 'breath', as the active and creative presence in matter. Its origin lies largely in a medical tradition which located the basis of human vitality in a kind of warm breath, thus reflecting the obvious indispensability of both breathing and warmth to life. Related ideas were also to be found in Aristotle's theory of inborn  pneuma (the causal relation of the Aristotelian to the medical theory is controversial); but probably the primary influence on the Stoic theory came from the doctor Praxagoras of Cos,90 a contemporary of Zeno, who was later cited as an authority by Chrysippus. He developed the thesis that, while the veins contain blood, it is  pneuma  that flows  through  the  arteries  and  transmits  motion  from  the  heart  to  the limbs. 
On the Stoic analysis,  pneuma  is an amalgam of the two active elements, fire and air. Some sources allow in addition that either one of these on its own may count as  pneuma,91 but it remains probable that when  pneuma  is acting as soul it is considered to involve both elements. The sources for Zeno himself vary between making fire and  pneuma  the stu◊ of the soul. 
As we shall see shortly, the di◊erence between the two accounts is mainly one of emphasis. 
At all events, during the third century bc the vital powers of  pneuma became more and more central to medical thought, especially when the nerves were discovered and taken to be the channels of  pneuma.92 By the time we get to Chrysippus, fire has receded as a vital principle, and  pneuma 89 See below, pp. 434-41. 
90 See further, below, pp. 60 0-2. 
91 See Gal.  CC  1, and Sorabji 1988, 85-9. But for psychic  pneuma  as an amalgam of the two (both warmth and breath being integral to animate life), cf.  SVF  i 135, ii 786-7; Cic.  Tusc.  i.42. 
92 See Solmsen 1961, and see below, p. 601. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
s t o i c   p h y s i c s   a n d   m e t a p h y s i c s 389
has become the vehicle of divine 'reason' (λο!γο)93 in matter, not just in animals  but  throughout  the  world.  Since   pneuma  consists  of  the  two active elements, fire and air, it follows that the matter which it imbues and informs consists of the other two elements, earth and water (e.g. Nemes. 
52.18-19), which henceforth take on at the level of elements the same passive  material  role  which  pure  'matter'  occupies  at  the  primary  level.  In cosmic  terms,  this  will  be  typified  by  the  way  in  which  air,  light  and warmth,  from  above,  act  upon  and  vitalize  combinations  of  the  inert stu◊s water and earth, to produce organisms. That such processes can be so successfully creative is due to the divine reason which characterizes all pneuma, while their regularity can be attributed to the 'seminal principles'
which god embodies - presumably principles for repeatable organic generation. 
Since its fiery component is hot and rarefied while its airy component is relatively cold and dense,  pneuma  is found in varying degrees of rarefac-tion, according to the mixture. At its most rarefied, it is soul - and since this  is  identical  with  its  most  fiery  form,  there  is  ultimately  little di◊erence between the early Stoic association of life and intelligence with fire, in the tradition of Heraclitus, and the alternative, medically inspired emphasis on  pneuma, favoured by Chrysippus. 
Below  the  level  of  soul,  the  powers  of   pneuma   can  be  traced  further down the natural scale. Plants too have a life force which gives them cohesion,  endurance  and  their  individual  qualities;  and  this  is   pneuma  in  its lesser guise of 'nature' (φυ!σι) - the state of vegetative, as distinct from animate, life. Finally, even a lifeless object, such as a stone or log, has coextensive with it a  pneuma  which unifies and shapes it, and this is called its
'state' or 'tenor' (ε1ξι).94
What di◊erentiates these three kinds of  pneuma  from each other, and accounts for every variation even within each class, is the varying tension between its outward and inward motions, a tension which in turn apparently depends on the proportions of air and fire. The fire in the  pneuma  has a naturally centrifugal motion, rarefying the object and having primary responsibility for its qualities. Meanwhile, the air has a centripetal tendency, which contributes in particular the object's solidity and cohesion. 
Whereas  'soul',  and  to  a  lesser  extent  'nature',  have  special  associations with fire and heat (e.g. Cic.  ND  ii.23-5), 'state' (ε1ξι) is more closely linked with air (Plu.  Stoic. Rep.  1053f-1054b), and this di◊erence of emphasis may reflect the fact that what is prominent in the former type of case is vital 93 See below, pp. 440-1. 
94 See below, pp. 563-4. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
390
h e l l e n i s t i c   p h y s i c s   a n d   m e t a p h y s i c s qualities (most fully realized in the very pure aetherial fire of the heavens), while the primary feature of a 'state' is cohesion as a single object. But nothing has the latter feature to the total exclusion of the former. To the extent that the world as a whole is a living and intelligent organism, the fiery element permeates it even down to individual rocks - which have a role  in  it  analogous  to  that  of  bones  in  individual  organisms  (cf.  D.L. 
vii.139, Philo  Leg.  ii.22-3). 
 5. The continuum 95
Both at the primary and at the elemental level, we have seen, a material substrate is entirely permeated by a second body, an active and intelligent one. How can this be? According to atomism mixture at the lowest level of analysis is simply the juxtaposition of discrete particles of two or more types. In Stoic eyes mere external contact could never constitute the intimate causal link between god and the matter which makes the world an inherently and ideally intelligent being. The active body must permeate the passive body 'through and through':
According  to  Chrysippus  .  .  .,  blendings  (κρα!σει)  occur  through  and through, and not by surface contact and juxtaposition. For a little wine cast  into  the  sea  will  coextend  with  it  for  a  while,  and  will  then  be blended with it. (D.L. vii.151)
According to Plutarch ( Comm. Not.  1078b-e), Chrysippus took this to the extreme of insisting that a single drop of wine could permeate the whole sea, indeed the whole world. And he reports that Arcesilaus had already mounted  an  Academic  attack  on  the  same  doctrine  of  through-and-through blending, asking rhetorically whether, if a severed leg putrefied in the sea and was blended into it, an entire naval battle might not then take  place  'in  the  leg'.  Chrysippus'  uncompromising  response  suggests that  the  paradox  was  one  that  he  not  only  considered  indispensable  to Stoic physics, but also relished. 
The  developed  Stoic  theory  distinguishes  three  grades  of  mixture (Alex.  Mixt.  216.14-218.6). 'Juxtaposition' conforms to the atomist model described above, and is exemplified by mixed grains. 'Blending' involves total  interpenetration,  but  the  ingredients  retain  their  own  distinctive properties, as is witnessed by the fact that they can at least in theory be separated again. Finally there is 'fusion' (συ!γχυσι), a kind of interpenetration in which the ingredients irreversibly lose their distinctive proper-95 Texts:  SVF  ii 463-91. Comment: Sambursky 1959, Hahm 1972, Cherniss 1976, 810-33, Sorabji 1983, M. J. White 1992, 284-326. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
s t o i c   p h y s i c s   a n d   m e t a p h y s i c s 391
ties and a new stu◊ is generated. Of these it is 'blending' that correctly describes  the  relation  of   pneuma  to  the  material  substrate.  The  point  is illustrated by two examples. In so far as  pneuma  is fire, it can be compared to the ('uncraftsmanlike') fire which is seen to permeate a red-hot piece of iron:  the  fire  is  present  throughout  the  iron,  but  each  keeps  its  own nature, as is evident when they are separated again - that is, when the fire spreads from it, or when the iron cools. And soul, itself a kind of  pneuma, can be seen to permeate the entire body, yet to retain its own distinctly
'psychic' properties (during incarnation and also, most Stoics would add, after eventual separation from the body).96
One evident paradox of the Stoic theory is that two bodies are required to occupy all of the same space simultaneously. Examples like that of the red-hot iron no doubt help to make this less shocking. A lump of matter will normally be spatially coextensive with the properties it possesses, and the theory of blending is, in a way, just a physicalized version of this evident truth. 
A weightier problem, however, is how total blending is to be analysed in  terms  of  mathematical  division,  an  issue  implicit  in  the  following sequence of topics reported by Diogenes Laertius (vii.150-1): 'Division is to infinity, or "infinite" according to Chrysippus (for there is not some infinity which the division reaches, it is just unceasing). And blendings, also, are through and through.' Clearly in an Epicurean world, in which there is an absolutely smallest magnitude,97 no mixture could be other than by juxtaposition of discrete portions. Conversely, in the Stoic world there must be no smallest magnitude, or through-and-through blending will be similarly ruled out. That may be why the non-existence of a smallest magnitude - of a 'limit' in the Epicurean sense - is among the topics which Stoic physics addressed directly after 'Elements', under the heading 'Limits'. 
Introducing this topic, Plutarch starts with some Epicurean-inspired challenges  to  the  Stoics  ( Comm.  Not.  1078e-1079b),  including:  (a)  How can a magnitude fail to have an extremity which is the first part of it? (b) How can one magnitude exceed another, if both have the same number of parts, viz. infinitely many (cf. Lucr. i.615-22)? He reports an answer to the second challenge in what purport to be Chrysippus' own words:
When asked if we have parts, and how many, and of what and how many parts  they  consist, we will operate a distinction. With regard to the inexact question we will reply that we consist of a head, trunk and limbs - for 96 See below, pp. 560-2. 
97 Cf. pp. 374-9 above. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
392
h e l l e n i s t i c   p h y s i c s   a n d   m e t a p h y s i c s that was all that the problem put to us amounted to. But if they extend their questioning to the  ultimate  parts, we must not, he says, assume any such things, but must say neither of what parts we consist, nor, likewise, of how many, either infinite or finite. (Plu.  Comm. Not. 1079b-c) Here Chrysippus shrewdly rejects as misconceived the very project of analysing a magnitude into its ultimate parts. A magnitude may be infinitely divisible, but, as we saw earlier, it does not follow that there is an actual infinity of ultimate parts of which it consists.98 Nor for that matter does it have any determinate number of parts. There is simply no non-arbitrary answer to the question how many parts it contains. He thus rejects the Epicurean presupposition that a thing's size is a function of the ultimate number of parts it has. 







Sextus  Empiricus  ( M  x.139-42)  urges  against  the  Stoic  continuum  a closely related paradox, also invoked by the Epicureans. This is the old argument of Zeno of Elea according to which an infinitely divisible continuum makes motion impossible, because for any distance you set out to traverse there will be an infinite number of sub-distances that you have to traverse first. Hence no sub-distance is the first, and motion cannot begin. 
Slightly earlier ( M. x.123-30) Sextus has dismissed as hopeless what looks like the Stoics' reply to this paradox: that the moving object 'completes a divisible distance as a whole in one and the same time'. 
What does this mean? Not, obviously, that the journey takes no time at all; nor, even worse, that the object reaches its destination without passing  through  the  intervening  space.99 To  see  what  it  might  mean,  we should start by bearing in mind once again Chrysippus' axiom that a magnitude, although infinitely divisible, does not contain an actual infinity of parts, the demarcation of its 'parts' being a purely arbitrary matter. It will follow that  any  sub-distance adjacent to the starting line might claim to be the 'first' part of the distance to be traversed. That, however, is not yet enough, since it leaves it entirely undetermined which motion will be the first,  and  invites  the  challenge  that  any  motion  chosen  will  contain smaller parts whose demarcation is no more arbitrary than its own. 
What we need is a non-arbitrary way of choosing the first motion in the series. And this seems to be provided by another Stoic thesis, that mathematical limits 'subsist in mere thought' (Procl.  Eucl.  i.89.15-18): they are thought constructs, or idealizations. It follows that on a runner's journey there are only as many dividing points as anyone analysing it marks o◊ in thought. At some point the analyst will find himself incapable of isolating 98 Cf. Stob. i.142.2-6 (assigned by Diels to Aëtius i.16). 
99 Cf. p. 358 above on Diodorus. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
s t o i c   p h y s i c s   a n d   m e t a p h y s i c s 393
further dividing points, and at that stage he will be left with a first motion which, though divisible, is undivided. And this first motion will have to be thought of as accomplished  legato, all in one go, not in discrete stages. 
That may be all that is meant by 'in one and the same time'. 
We have here also an answer to the former of Plutarch's two challenges, how a magnitude can fail to have an extremity which is the first part of it. 
The challenge exploits the Epicurean idea of a body's limit as an irreducibly small part of it: unless you could start with such a limit, then work along the body by means of further minimal parts of it, you would never succeed in traversing it, even in thought. The Stoic theory of motion, we have seen, o◊ers an alternative account of what constitutes the first part of the magnitude. And Plutarch records ( Comm. Not. 1080e) a related Stoic distinction, one that had eluded Aristotle as well as the Epicureans: that the limit or edge of a body is not itself a part of it at all. 
Stoic interest in limits goes further. But there is little sign of an interest in  the  properties  of  pure  mathematical  entities,  and  instead  concern seems to be focused on the material continuum. This is well illustrated by a  geometrical  problem  ( Comm.  Not.  1079e  ◊.)  which  exercised Chrysippus, and which appears to arise only in connection with physical solids,  as  distinct  from  abstract  geometrical  ones.  The  early  atomist Democritus had asked what happens if you slice a cone along a plane parallel to its base. Are the resulting upper and lower faces equal or unequal in size? If they are equal, the cone is not tapering towards its apex, and must be a cylinder. But if the two adjacent faces are unequal, the cone's side will turn out to be stepped and irregular. 
Democritus'  own  motivation  in  raising  the  puzzle  is  unknown.  But Chrysippus  takes  it  very  seriously  in  its  own  right.  His  solution,  as reported by Plutarch, is that the lower surface is 'larger but not exceeding', or alternatively that the two surfaces are 'neither equal nor unequal'. 
These expressions seem more successful in conveying Chrysippus' puzzlement  than  in  revealing  any  chosen  theoretical  position.  They  reflect the fact that as you run your finger down the reconstituted cone you will feel it widening at the original plane of intersection (hence 'larger') but will not feel a projecting ridge (hence the lower plane is 'not exceeding'). 
Whether these terms were meant to be translatable into the language of mathematics, and if so whether the distinction was a coherent one, is a matter of controversy.100 Be that as it may, he does at least seem to accept that  we  are  dealing  with  two  distinct  though  adjacent  surfaces,  one  of 100 See especially M. J. White 1992, 301-14 for speculation. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
394
h e l l e n i s t i c   p h y s i c s   a n d   m e t a p h y s i c s them higher than the other in the cone - and this confirms that he treats it as a physical cone, since if it were a purely geometrical construct the two
'surfaces' could hardly fail to be, mathematically speaking, one and the same  plane.  It  is  the  physical  world,  not  pure  geometry,  that  o◊ers  the puzzling  phenomenon  of  adjacent  but  non-coincidental  planes.  This  is confirmation, if any were needed, that Chrysippus' interests in the problems  of  the  continuum  are  geared  to  the  understanding  of  the  physical world, and not of abstract mathematical entities - a reminder of the intimate link between his defence of infinite divisibility and the Stoic theory of mixture. 
This consideration brings us to the borderline of the two kinds of continuum  distinguished  above101 -  the  structural  continuum,  divisible without end, with which we have been concerned in this section, and the material continuum, unpunctuated by void gaps. The Epicureans reject the material continuum on the ground that without void gaps motion is ruled out. The Stoics' response - although direct documentation for it is sparse - relies on the structural continuum. The division of matter need not yield ultimate rigid particles like Epicurean atoms. Since body is infinitely divisible a stu◊ like air can be conceived as fluid  all the way down, in which  case  motion  can  comfortably  take  place  by  the  redistribution  of body within the plenum that is the world. 
*
We  move  finally  to  the  temporal  continuum,102 which  appears  to  have been treated on a par with its spatial counterparts: 'Chrysippus said that bodies are divided to infinity, and likewise things comparable to bodies, such as surface, line, place, void and time' (Stob. i.142.2-6).103 Diodorus, whose  anti-continuist  theories  have  been  lurking  in  the  background throughout this section, had argued that the present is a 'partless' stretch of time, on the ground that if divisible it would be exhaustively divided into past and future, and thus vanish without trace.104 This assumes that the  present  has  duration,  discounting  from  the  outset  the  alternative, Aristotelian idea of the present as a durationless instant, a mere boundary between past and future. That idea, which seems not to have been seriously revived until relatively late in the Hellenistic age, threatens to generate the paradoxical consequences that no change can take place in the present, and that the present, far from being a privileged part of time, is 101 See pp. 355-6. 
102 The following remarks are heavily indebted to Schofield 1988. 
103 Cf. Ar. Did.  ap. Stob. i.106.11-13, where Chrysippus compares the infinity of time to that of void. 
104 See above, pp. 357-8. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
s t o i c   p h y s i c s   a n d   m e t a p h y s i c s 395
not a part of time at all.105 (The Stoics, we have already seen, recognized that limits are not parts.)
Chrysippus' position is reported as follows by Arius Didymus:
He says most clearly that no time is wholly present. For since continuous things are infinitely divisible, on the basis of this division every time too is infinitely divisible. Consequently no time is present exactly, but it is broadly said to be so. (Arius Didymus  ap. Stob. i.105.13-18 ⫽fr. 26) To  this  Plutarch  adds  the  information  that  in  his  work   On  parts Chrysippus said that 'of the present time, part is future and part is past'
( Comm.  Not.  1081f ).  Although  any  present  temporal  duration  contains past and future elements, the infinite divisibility of time is Chrysippus'
guarantee that no process of peeling away the past and future elements from the present need pare it down to a Diodorean partless 'now' or to a mere  temporal  boundary.  One  can  use  the  term  'now'  with  varying degrees of 'broadness' - this week, today, this morning, the duration of this conversation, etc. - and, with each narrowing, some past and future parts of the present are stripped away. But no amount of such narrowing will yield an altogether durationless instant. 
If the Stoics need theoretical justification for following the trend and excluding a present instant from their account of time, we need only bear in mind their thesis that limits are mere thought-constructs or idealizations. Although this doctrine is not recorded explicitly other than with regard to the limits of bodies, their consciously parallel treatment of the temporal and spatial continua virtually guarantees that temporal limits, i.e. instants, were subjected to the same constraint. 
 6. The incorporeals 106
Only bodies have 'being'. That, we have seen, is because only bodies play an  interactive  part  in  the  world-process.  Nevertheless,  Stoic  ontology standardly acknowledges four incorporeals, which will in this section be considered in the following order: place, void, time, and the  lekton (e.g. 
S.E.  M  x.218). 
The basis of Epicurean physics is the assignment of independent existence not only to body but also to an incorporeal, space. Stoic physics goes  much  of  the  way  with  Epicureanism  on  this  point,  but  there  are 105 The  latter  is  used  by  Plutarch  ( Comm.  Not.  1081e)  against  the  second-century  bc Stoic Archedemus,  who  revived  the  punctual  view  of  the  present,  perhaps  under  pressure  from Academic attacks of the kind echoed by Plutarch in the same chapter. 
106 Texts:   SVF  ii 166-71,  501-21,  FDS  699-708.  Comment:  Bréhier  1910,  Goldschmidt  1979, Brunschwig 1988a, Schofield 1988, Algra 1993 and 1995. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
396
h e l l e n i s t i c   p h y s i c s   a n d   m e t a p h y s i c s some subtle di◊erences too. The common ground includes the tripartition, invoked by both schools, of the genus space into 'place' (το!πο), 
'void' (κενο!ν), and 'room' (χω!ρα). Greek has no ready-made term corresponding to 'space'. Where the Epicureans invent one, 'intangible substance', the Stoics, as the following definitions will make clear, content themselves with the generic description 'that which is able to be occupied by what-is'. The genus is divided into its three species as follows. 
First, Chrysippus defines place as '(i) that which is occupied throughout by what-is; or (ii) that which is able to be occupied by what-is, and is occupied throughout, whether by something or by somethings (ει3τε υ/πο! 
τινο <ει3τε> υ/πο! τινων)' (Ar. Did.  ap. Stob. i.161.8-11). Here (ii) is just a more articulated statement of (i), the first clause giving place its genus -
roughly, space -, the second its di◊erentia, namely that its capacity to be occupied must be being exercised, and the third adding that the 'being', i.e.  body,  which  occupies  it  may  be  comprised  of  one  or  more  discrete individuals.107 Put non-technically, a place is a fully occupied portion of space, whether occupied by a single entity or by a collection of entities. 
It must be borne in mind that the Stoic world is a plenum, containing no void gaps, but that it is surrounded by an infinite void, into a part of which it expands during its periodic conflagrations.108 It is with this periodic expansion in mind that void is defined as 'that which is able to be occupied by what is, but which is not occupied' (S.E.  M  x.3). So far we have a close correspondence with the Epicurean use of the same terms. It is with the third, 'room' that the picture becomes less simple. 
In Epicurean terminology 'room' is space which is neither simply occupied  nor  simply  unoccupied,  but  which  has  body  passing  through  it. 
Chrysippus defines it enigmatically as 'either (i) the larger thing able to be occupied  by  what-is,  and  like  a  larger  container  of  a  body,  or  (ii)  that which is roomy enough for (χωρου4ν) a larger body' (Ar. Did.,  apud  Stob. 
i.  161.8-11).  'Larger'  here  seems  to  mean  larger  than  the  body  as  whose location it is being considered. There seems no reason why, on this conception of 'room',109 'Trafalgar Square' should not be the right answer to the  question  'Where  is  Nelson's  Column?',  despite  the  fact  that  the 107 For this technical sense of 'something', τι, see below, pp. 410-11. 
108 See below, pp. 441-2. 
109 Likewise Aët. i.20.1, 'that which is partly occupied'. The only truly anomalous definition is the alternative which Sextus now adds ( M  x.4; cf.  PH  iii.124): 'Some have said that room is the place of the larger body, so that it di◊ers from place in that place does not indicate the size of the contained body - even if it contains a tiny body it is none the less called a place - whereas 'room'
indicates that the size of the body in it is considerable.' The explanation seems simple: these interpreters have misunderstood Chrysippus' definition of room as a 'larger' container to mean that it is large  compared with other containers. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
s t o i c   p h y s i c s   a n d   m e t a p h y s i c s 397
remainder  of  Trafalgar  Square  is  occupied  by  other  bodies.110 To  this extent  the  Stoics  may  simply  be  trying  to  do  justice  to  everyday  broad notions of location, which rarely require the precision implied by their formal  definition  of  place.  Another  motive  is  no  doubt  to  meet  an Epicurean challenge: Epicurean 'room' is the space that leaves atoms free to move, and the Stoics will want to show that, even in their own voidless world where motion requires no 'room' in the Epicurean sense, the term itself  has  a  proper  significance.111 These  two  considerations  can  help explain the relative neglect of 'room' in their formal ontology. For it never appears, alongside place and void, on their standard list of four incorporeals. 
Why, conversely, do place and void find their way onto this list? No formal argument survives, but we can get help from the following comment of the later Stoic cosmologist Cleomedes:
So void must have a kind of subsistence (υ/πο!στασι). The notion of it is very simple, since it is incorporeal and intangible, neither has shape nor takes on shape, neither is acted upon in any respect nor acts, but is simply able to receive body. (Cleom.  Cael. 8.10-14)
'Subsistence' is the technical ontological status of the incorporeals, one which falls short of actual 'being'. Void earns this status by its potential role, as receptor of body, in objective processes of change. It is an integral part of the structure of the universe - of what the Stoics call 'the all', the combination of the world and the surrounding void. But it is not a body, precisely because it lacks the defining mark of body, the power to act or be acted upon. 
And  if  void  is  so  classified,  the  same  must  inevitably  apply  to  place. 
Void,  when  body  moves  into  it,  becomes  that  body's  place,  but  could hardly be thought thereby to become a body. The Stoics were admittedly prepared to go to considerable lengths to reduce supposed incorporeals to bodies - virtue, for example, being the soul, itself corporeal, in a certain 110 The definition can quite well allow the combination of the world's place with all or some of the surrounding void to count as a special case of χω!ρα, namely the world's χω!ρα (cf. Chrysippus ap. Plu.  Stoic. Rep.  1054c). But we should not infer that, at least for Chrysippus, the term  means
'space' in this all-embracing sense, since Arius Didymus  ap. Stob. i.11-13 reports Chrysippus thus: 'If ever, of that which is able to be occupied by what-is, part is occupied but part not, the whole will be neither void nor place, but something else  which has no name.' So this kind of composite portion of space would not, as such, be classified as χω!ρα, despite as a matter of fact being the world's χω!ρα. However, some other Stoics may have given χω!ρα this precise sense; cf. S.E.  M  x.3, and Algra 1995, 263-81. 
111 Hence the rival etymology proposed (see above). Epicurean χω!ρα is that through which bodies 'roam' (χωρει4ν) - see above p. 367. Stoic χω!ρα is that which 'is roomy enough for' (χωρει4ν
again) a larger body than the one in it. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
398
h e l l e n i s t i c   p h y s i c s   a n d   m e t a p h y s i c s state. But the price of so reductive a treatment of place would have been unacceptably  high.  If  an  object's  place  were  identical  with  that  body viewed  in  a  certain  way,  it  would  become  hard  to  give  any  account  of motion - of a place being vacated by one body and entered by another. 
Next among the incorporeals we come to time. In the previous section we learned something of the structure of time, as a continuum in which the present is an extended part along with past and future. An asymmetry must now be added. According to Chrysippus:
.  .  .  only  present  time  is  real  (υ/πα!ρχειν); past and future time subsist (υ/φεστα!ναι), but by no means are they real, just as only predicates which belong as properties (συµβεβηκο!τα) are real - for example, walking is real  for  me  when  I  walk,  unreal  when  I  lie  or  sit.  (Ar.  Did.  ap.  Stob. 
i.106.18-23 ⫽ fr. 26)
O√cially speaking, 'subsistence' is the metaphysical status that time as a whole, or any portion of it, possesses in virtue of being an incorporeal. 
The point of Chrysippus' remark is not to elevate the present above the status of an incorporeal, but to make it a special kind of incorporeal. The comparison with predicates like 'walking' o◊ers some illumination. They too,  for  reasons  we  will  encounter  shortly,  are  incorporeals.  They  gain their subsistent status from their availability to become truly predicable of  bodies,  their  capacity  to  be  instantiated  in  them:  that,  we  might  say informally, is why there  is such a thing as  walking - why walking 'subsists'
- whether or not anyone is actually walking at the moment. The fullest realization of the predicate is when it does become instantiated in a body. 
But this does not in any way a◊ect the kind of thing it is - namely a subsistent incorporeal. Likewise the present has a special status. It too is 'real'
(υ/πα!ρχει),  so  that  it  can  for  example  provide  the  content  of  cognitive impressions.112 But like past and future it remains a subsistent incorporeal. 
Why is time an incorporeal? Puzzlingly, the Stoics seem happy to analyse portions of time as bodies: days and nights are identified with, for example, the world's atmosphere in a certain state, and similar corporealization  is  then  allowed  to  spread  to  other  portions  of  time,  including seasons  and  years  (Plu.  Comm.  Not.  1084c-d).  Then  given  their  general programme of corporealization, why do they not simply content themselves with this analysis? 
We may guess that days and years are regarded as bodies when viewed as  items  with  a  causal  history:  this  week  has  exhausted  me,  the  year's 112 For the cognitive impression and its definition as α0πο' υ/πα!ρχοντο, see above, p. 302. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
s t o i c   p h y s i c s   a n d   m e t a p h y s i c s 399
length is governed by the sun's movement in the ecliptic, etc. There is, however, a guise in which time's role is non-causal, but rather to provide parameters - that is, under Chrysippus' formal definition of time as 'the dimension (δια!στηµα) of the world's motion' (Simp.  Cat.  350.15-16).113
There  are  important  similarities  here  to  Plato's   Timaeus,  where  time  is likewise viewed from the top downwards, as a measure of cosmic regularity, of the repeated and mathematically precise motions in the heavens. 
These were widely believed to operate in a cycle of many millennia known as the Great Year, which for the Stoics was also the length of each world phase,  between  successive  conflagrations.114 Since  Chrysippus  insists that  time  is  infinite  in  both  directions  (Ar.  Did.  ap.  Stob.  i.106.12),  he must think of it as the entire series of such ages, although individual times will include its components, such as months, days, and parts of days. 
Now the world is a body, and so is its motion, being simply the world moving. Yet the Stoics hold that time, properly defined as the dimension of that motion, is not itself a body. We must speculate why not. The regularity of a body's motion presupposes fixed spatial and temporal intervals through  which  it  takes  place.  If  either  of  those  intervals  were  identical with the moving body itself, viewed in a certain way, they might say, its motion would be left altogether without objective coordinates. It is, then, anything but surprising that the Stoics should treat not only the spatial intervals - or 'places' - but also the temporal intervals as subsisting independently of the moving bodies which pass through them. And that consideration already points to the incorporeality of time.115
If this is the right story, it implies that time is not, in the manner of Plato's  Timaeus, totally parasitic on the motions of the heavens. Its function is to measure change, and above all the regular change in the heavens, just  as  void's  function  is  to  receive  body.  In  both  cases  that  function  is even built into the definition. But it by no means follows that either space 113 Cf. Cleom. ii.5.92-101 Todd, where two corporeal senses of 'month' are distinguished from two incorporeal senses, one of which is as a χρονικο'ν δια!στηµα. 
114 See below, pp. 434-9. 
115 That  we  might  not  be  able  to   specify  those  intervals  other  than  in  terms  of  cosmic  motions should  constitute  no  obstacle  to  this  interpretation.  Cf.  lekta (below,  p.  401),  which  subsist independently of language as the rational structure onto which language is mapped, yet can themselves only be specified by means of that language. Nor need the description of time as
'accompanying' (παρακολουθου4ν, Ar. Did.  ap. Stob. i.106.7) the world's motion make it parasitic on that motion, any more than the definition of a  lekton  as 'subsisting in correspondence with'  a  rational  impression  makes  it  parasitic  on  that  impression  for  its  subsistence  (cf.  the description of place as 'subsisting in correspondence with bodies' at  SVF  ii 507, an authentic-sounding Stoic phrase despite the doubts raised by Algra 1993, 499 n. 57; cf. also Plato  Men. 
75b, where shape is defined as what always accompanies colour, again with no implication of dependence). 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
400
h e l l e n i s t i c   p h y s i c s   a n d   m e t a p h y s i c s or  time  has  a  reality  totally  derived  from  that  of  the  bodies  travelling though it.116 Rather, they are presupposed as the background to motion, the dimensions through which the moving bodies must pass in order to move at all. 
So  far,  then, we have seen that  place, void and time are all classed as incorporeals  because  they  provide  the  dimensions  within  which  bodily movement can occur, and must therefore themselves be independent of body.117 The remaining item on the list of incorporeals is the  lekton, literally 'sayable' or 'thing said' (from λε!γειν, 'to say'), but better left untranslated. It is treated in more detail elsewhere in this volume.118 Our task at present is to account for its inclusion in the list of incorporeals. 
Plato in the  Sophist (261-2) distinguishes two linguistic tasks: naming, which is to pick out a subject, and 'saying' (λε!γειν), which is, roughly, to attach a predicate to that subject. This is probably the background to the Stoic  lekton, which seems to have originally meant, as distinct from a subject, the sort of thing that you can say (λε!γειν) about a subject.119 As in Plato, it is typically expressed by a verb like 'walks'. The earliest attested use of the term is one attributed to Cleanthes, in the context of causal theory.120 Causation is the action of one body upon another, say a knife upon flesh. But what the knife brings about in the flesh is not a further body, the cut flesh, since the flesh was there all along. It brings about an incorporeal lekton, namely the predicate 'is cut' which comes to be truly predicable of that body. Thus in a causal context, what can be said of a body is a distinct, incorporeal item, without which the causal process could not be rationally analysed. 
A closely comparable use of the  lekton  is in the Stoic account of wishing. 
Wishes are not for bodies, but for the incorporeal predicates which we want to belong to us.121 Here too, similar reasoning can be conjectured: if I want to be happy, my wish is not for my happiness, which is my (corporeal) soul in a certain state; my soul already exists, and the addition I desire is not a further body, but for something to be true of my soul which is not true  now,  namely  that  it  'is  happy'.  There  is  reason  to  regard  this  as another very early Stoic use of the  lekton, since it was apparently drawn from the work of the Stoics' immediate precursors in logic, the Dialectical school.122
116 Likewise the very name  lekton, 'sayable', specifies its linguistic function, although especially in their causal role  lekta  subsist even when not being 'said'. 
117 For a less homogenizing interpretation, see Algra 1993. 
118 See above, pp. 197-213. 
119 Plato's distinction between naming and saying is preserved in Seneca's account of the  lekton  at Ep.  117.13. 
120 Clem.  Strom.  viii.9.26.3-4, with the important observations of Frede 1977. 
121 Stob. ii.97.15-98.6. 
122 As argued by Brunschwig 1990b, 391. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
s t o i c   p h y s i c s   a n d   m e t a p h y s i c s 401
Stoic  logic  applied  the  same  analysis  to  the  predicates  which  are expressed by verbs within complete grammatical sentences. Since predicates only serve a full linguistic function when a subject for them is also named, the notion of a 'complete  lekton' is used to mark o◊ such cases. 
Hence a sentence like 'Dion walks' turns  out  to express an incorporeal complete   lekton -  despite  the  fact  that  the  name  'Dion',  taken  by  itself, does not express anything incorporeal at all.123 This is the road leading to a highly characteristic Stoic view, that the propositions with which logic concerns  itself  are  not  sentences  but  the  incorporeal   lekta  expressed  by declarative sentences. 
Place, void and time have proved to have some sort of mind-independent reality. Can the same be said for  lekta? The original causal role of  lekta strongly suggests that it can, since causal processes presumably go on in the same way whether or not anyone is there to analyse them. It is true that the  lekton  is defined as 'that which subsists in correspondence with a rational impression' (e.g. D.L. vii.63), which could be taken to make it parasitic on the thought processes of rational beings. But the definition need  mean  no  more  than  that  a   lekton  is  a  formal  structure  onto  which rational thoughts, like the sentences into which they can be translated, must  be  mapped.  We  may  compare  what  we  have  learnt  of  space  -  an objective dimension onto which the motions of bodies are to be mapped, but not altogether parasitic on those motions for its reality. The analogy must not be pushed too far, since the  lekton  di◊ers from the other three incorporeals  in  not  being  any  kind  of  mathematically  analysable  extension. But if rationality is as much an intrinsic feature of the Stoic world as dimensionality, we should not resist the implication that there are objective parameters against which its rational structures can be measured.124
It would be tidy to leave the subject there, but there is one annoying loose end left. Should mathematical limits not constitute a fifth incorporeal?  'Chrysippus  said  that  bodies  are  divided  to  infinity,  and  likewise things comparable to bodies, such as surface, line, place, void and time'
(Stob. i.142.2-6). This might well seem to locate surfaces and lines in the class  of  incorporeals;  and  the  inference  that  limits  are  incorporeals  is indeed drawn not only by the unfriendly Plutarch ( Comm. Not. 1080e), but even,  with  regard  to  surfaces,  by  the  late  Stoic  cosmologist  Cleomedes 123 For  this  view,  see  Long  1971c,  Long  and  Sedley  1987,  vol.  i,  195-202.  Contra,  see  above, pp. 207-8. 
124 Cf.  D.L.  vii.53,  'Somethings  (τινα!:  see  below,  pp.  410-11)  are  also  conceived  by  transition (µετα!βασι), e.g.  lekta  and place.' Whatever this obscure process may be, it seems that  lekta  and place are conceived in the same way. This would be surprising if  lekta  were actually generated by thought while place was discovered by it. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
402
h e l l e n i s t i c   p h y s i c s   a n d   m e t a p h y s i c s (i.1.139-42 Todd). In the previous section, on the other hand, we saw how the Stoics drew certain advantages from the thesis that points, instants and other limits are pure idealizations, lacking in mind-independent reality. Taking that consideration along with the immediately foregoing conclusion, we can conjecture that the Stoic list of incorporeals is designed to include only those items which, albeit not bodies, are an ineliminable part of the world's objective structure. 
 7. Qualities 125
We have now learnt how far the Stoics are prepared to go in modifying their  determinedly  corporealist  programme.  The  agenda,  we  saw  earlier,126 was set by Plato, who had doubted whether even the most committed materialist could hold that souls, and their virtues and vices, are bodies.  Here  the  Stoics  are  quite  confident  that  they  can  allay  Plato's doubts. 
That  the  soul  itself  is  corporeal  follows  from  its  being  a  specially attuned  portion  of   pneuma.127 What  must  now  be  emphasized  is  that every quality (ποιο!τη) that a thing has is likewise a portion of its  pneuma, or its  pneuma  in a certain state. Hence the  pneuma  that constitutes your soul also constitutes your individual psychic qualities, including your virtues or vices. Without being corporeal, how could these mental qualities so evidently have causal e√cacy on the movements of your body? 
A  thing's   pneuma,  in  its  role  as  its  'state'  (ε1ξι), is also what makes it cohere as a single entity, or as what is technically called a 'whole' (ο1λον) and 'unified' (η/νωµε!νον).128 Since a quality is a single portion of  pneuma, it follows that only a whole can have a quality. And there are two main kinds of whole: (i) discrete entities like animals, plants and stones, and (ii) the entire world. Any collection of discrete items, like an army or a forest, or any composite artefact like a ship, is discounted. Since these have no unifying  pneuma, they have no quality. That is not to say that they cannot be  'qualified'  in  this  or  that  way:  the  army  may  be  fanatical,  the  ship unseaworthy. But these are qualifications which fail to correspond to an intrinsic  'quality',  in  the  technical  sense  of  that  term  (Simp.  Cat. 
214.24-37).  Analogously  (S.E.  M  ix.332),  while  the  world  is  a  unified whole - it is in fact called 'the Whole' - the universe is not, since the world and the surrounding void do not jointly constitute a pneumatically coher-ing entity: it is simply called 'the All', the sum total of things. 
125 Texts:  SVF  ii 76-98,  FDS  831-65. Comment: Rieth 1933, 22-9, 55-69, Sedley 1982b, Long and Sedley 1987, vol. i, 166-76, Brunschwig 1988a. 
126 Above, p. 383. 
127 See below, pp. 562-72. 
128 See p. 482 (with n.9) on cohesive or containing causes. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
s t o i c   p h y s i c s   a n d   m e t a p h y s i c s 403
Even  where  there  is  a  single   pneuma,  not  every  qualification  corresponds to a 'quality' (Simp.  Cat.  212.12-213.1). On a broad enough sense of 'qualified', even temporary activities like running are qualifications, as are habitual activities like gluttony. But qualities, properly understood, are  long-term  dispositional  states,  which  persist  even  when  the  corresponding activity is prevented. Thus the paradigmatic Stoic cases of quality are virtues and vices, the transition from vice to virtue being rare and di√cult, and virtue, once acquired, hard if not impossible to lose. In fact the Stoics' central concern with the status of virtues and vices may be one factor  that  explains  their  preference  for  the  stricter  notion  of  quality. 
Another may be their search for an inalienable quality unique to each individual. It is to this latter that we now turn. 
*
The type of quality we have been considering so far has been that of the
'commonly qualified individual' (κοινω4 ποιο!), as typically signified by a common noun or adjective like 'man' or 'wise'. But an equally important type, with a history of its own, is that of the 'peculiarly qualified individual' (ι0δι!ω  ποιο!), as typically expressed by a proper name like 'Dion'. 
This is an individual viewed in the light of whatever characteristic makes him that person and no other. The Stoic thesis is that such unique qualities exist, and that they are lifelong. For once we can trace the theory's origin and motivation in some detail. 
Its impetus came from the Growing Argument (αυ0ξανο!µενο λο!γο), a puzzle whose author was agreed to be the fifth-century bc Sicilian drama-tist Epicharmus. Take any number, and alter it by a small addition or subtraction. You cannot say that the number has grown or shrunk: rather, it has been replaced by a new number. Now apply the same thought to yourself. If the particles of matter which jointly constitute you have a single particle added, that is no longer you but a new set of particles. In which case not only are our identities constantly changing, but we cannot ever grow: since every new particle added creates a new individual, there is no enduring individual who can be said to have done the growing. 
We learn from Plutarch ( Comm. Not.  1083a-1084a) that the Academics propounded a version of this against the Stoics, and that the Stoic (almost certainly Chrysippean) response was to analyse an individual at two distinct levels: (i) a 'substance', a standard Stoic term for matter, and (ii) a
'peculiarly  qualified  individual'.129 Viewed  as  (i)  a  lump  of  matter,  you 129 The text is defective here, but other sources support the supplement ι0δι!ω ποιο!. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
404
h e l l e n i s t i c   p h y s i c s   a n d   m e t a p h y s i c s cannot be said to grow, and for exactly the reasons given by the Growing Argument. Your matter comes and goes, and in itself retains no enduring identity. But viewed as individuated by the peculiar quality that makes you the person you are, you do have enduring identity: and it is that peculiar individual who can be correctly said to grow. 
What is the relation of you the peculiarly qualified individual to you the lump of matter? Not one of simple identity, or the two of you would have identical histories. Not that of two distinct individuals either, as Plutarch maliciously tries to infer. The lump of matter is a  part  of you the qualified individual  (Ar.  Did.  ap.  Stob.i.179.2-3),  since  it  constitutes  you  jointly with your qualities.130 And a part, according to the Stoics, is neither identical with the whole nor di◊erent from it.131
From what we have now seen, it follows that your sustained self-identity  over  your  lifetime  depends  on  your  retaining  your  peculiar  quality from birth to death (Simp.  de An.  217.36-218.2). What could such a quality be? While there is a little evidence that it may have been assumed to be a  unique  blend  of  common  qualities  (Dexippus   Cat.  30.20-6),  it  is extremely hard to see how any suitable such combination could plausibly be thought lifelong. It is perhaps better to say that the Stoics were confident,  on  their  own  metaphysical  grounds  and  perhaps  also  intuitively, that there must be such a quality; it was left for twentieth-century bio-chemistry to tell us what it is - the individual's genetic code. 
One reason for the Stoics' confidence is epistemological. Their defence of the cognitive impression also relies in part on the doctrine that every individual is qualitatively unique.132 Academic attacks on cognitive certainty had centred on the challenge that for every true impression there might be an indiscernible false one. The Stoics' uniqueness thesis thus not only serves the metaphysical role we have seen, but also comes to the aid of their epistemology by ensuring that every individual can in principle be recognized on the basis of an intrinsic and inalienable property - the role which in the twentieth century has in certain contexts come to be filled by fingerprints.  In  attempting  to  turn  the  tables  on  their  Academic  opponents, the Stoics alleged that their indiscernibility challenge amounted to
'forcing  a  single  qualified  individual  to  occupy  two  substances'  (Plu. 
 Comm. Not.  1077c) - the alleged metaphysical absurdity of locating one and the same individual in two separate bodies. 
*
130 Retaining the MSS reading τη'ν ου0σι!αν at 179.3. 
131 S.E.  M  ix.336. The distinction originates from Plato  Parm. 146b. See also Barnes 1988b, 262-5. 
132 See pp. 30 0-13, esp. 308-10. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
s t o i c   p h y s i c s   a n d   m e t a p h y s i c s 405
Whether or not a peculiar quality is analysable as a set of common qualities, the question arises how the di◊erent common qualities are related to each other within a single individual. Iamblichus o◊ers the following clues: How are the soul's faculties distinguished? Some of them, according to the Stoics, by a di◊erence in the underlying bodies. For they say that a sequence of di◊erent portions of  pneuma  extends from the commanding-faculty, some to the eyes, others to the ears and others to other sense-organs.  Other  faculties  are  di◊erentiated  by  a  peculiarity  of  quality  in regard to the same substrate. Just as an apple possesses in the same body sweetness  and  fragrance,  so  too  the  commanding-faculty  combines  in the  same  body  impression,  assent,  impulse,  reason.  (Iambl.  De  an.  ap. 
Stob. i.368.12-20)
What Iamblichus applies to soul faculties can equally well be applied to other  kinds  of  pneumatic  state,  including  qualities.  The  soul  itself  permeates the whole body, although with some concentration in the commanding-faculty (η/γεµονικο!ν), located in the chest. Some qualities, such as strength and good eyesight, will be located in the  pneuma  linking the commanding-faculty to the appropriate limbs and organs. But each mental quality is concentrated in the commanding-faculty itself, so that for example all the virtues become materially coextensive there. This fits in with the fact that Chrysippus, who wrote at length to establish that each virtue is a distinct quality (Gal.  PHP  vii.1.12-15), nevertheless considered them all to be states of the intellect, inseparable because they are sciences with  their  main  theorems  in  common.133 He  can  hardly  have  failed  to locate them together in the very same portion of  pneuma. Any lingering puzzlement  as  to  why  coextensive  qualities  do  not  erase  each  other  he would have blamed on physical naivety - just as on another occasion he warned  for  similar  reasons  against  too  literal  a  reading  of  Zeno's  'wax imprint' account of mental impressions, substituting the more subtle but still  physical  analogy  of  a  single  portion  of  air  simultaneously  carrying multiple sounds (S.E.  M  vii.228-31). 
Two or more common qualities, then, can coexist in the same portion of matter. It seems equally clear that two or more peculiar qualities cannot
- not in the sense that I might not have two or more unique qualities, but in the sense that the same piece of matter cannot simultaneously have the distinguishing qualities of two or more di◊erent individuals, for example (to use the standard Stoic example) be both Dion and Theon simultaneously. Chrysippus is reported to have considered the following puzzle.134
133 See pp. 717-18. 
134 Philo  Aet.  48; interpretation in Sedley 1982b. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
406
h e l l e n i s t i c   p h y s i c s   a n d   m e t a p h y s i c s Take an individual, Dion, and give the name Theon to that portion of him which includes everything except one foot. Then amputate the foot. Dion and Theon now threaten to be two individuals occupying precisely the same  material  substance  at  the  same  time.  Since  that  is  impossible,  we must ask which one of them has perished. Chrysippus' answer is: Theon. 
Why  is  Dion  the  survivor?  Apparently  because  the  survivor  is  visibly someone whose foot has just been amputated, and that can only be Dion: Theon cannot have lost a foot he never had. 
The  puzzle  confirms  Chrysippus'  own  commitment  to  the  principle that  two  peculiarly  qualified  individuals  cannot  occupy  one  and  the same substance  -  common  ground  in  the  debate  between  Stoics and Academics.135 But  another  of  its  premisses  hardly  looks  Stoic. 
Chrysippus can surely not have accepted that Dion and Theon even start out as distinct individuals. They are related as whole to part. Only the foot di◊erentiates them, and it cannot have been or contained Dion's peculiar quality, since he turns out to survive its loss. The premiss looks more like one  dialectically  assigned  to  the  Academics,  whose  Growing  Argument does implicitly make whole and part into distinct individuals, at least to the extent that, as we have seen, it takes every material addition to generate a new individual. Significantly, Chrysippus' discussion is said to have been in his work  On the Growing Argument. We may speculate that his aim was to turn the Growing Argument against the Academics by concocting an  instance  in  which  material  diminution,  far  from  terminating  someone's identity, is actually a condition of enduring identity: the undiminished Theon perishes, while it is the diminished Dion who survives. 
 8. The four genera 136
In  reporting  the  Stoics'  solution  to  the  Growing  Argument,  Plutarch ( Comm. Not.  1083a-1084a) mocks their analysis of each individual into two distinct items, substance and quality. He adds that in fact the Stoics make each of us not just two but four things, but that two are quite enough to bring out the absurdity. What are the four things? There is no doubt that he  is  referring  to  the  doctrine  which  modern  convention  has  dubbed that of the four Stoic 'categories', although there is no reason to think that they used that term or that, as its use implies, they compared their theory to Aristotle's category theory. It was debated whether Aristotle's theory 135 Despite Plutarch's attempts to show that the Stoics contravene it in their conflagration doctrine,  Comm. Not.  1077c-e. 
136 Texts:  SVF  ii 369-404,  FDS  827-73. Literature: Rieth 1933, esp. 55-91, A. C. Lloyd 1971, Long and Sedley 1987, vol. i, 166-79, Mignucci 1988, Rist 1969b. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
s t o i c   p h y s i c s   a n d   m e t a p h y s i c s 407
was linguistic or ontological in orientation, and Athenodorus (first century bc), the only Stoic whose views on it are recorded,137 argued that it was linguistic, whereas one thing that is relatively uncontroversial about the Stoic theory is that it is ontological. Our sources report it as a classification of 'genera' (γε!νη) of being, although there is no evidence that even this term was the Stoics' own. Plutarch passes on one more salient feature of the theory: each individual is four things, that is, each individual can be viewed under all four aspects. 
The four genera are: object (υ/ποκει!µενον), qualified (ποιο!ν), disposed in a certain way (πω ε3χον), and relatively disposed in a certain way (προ' 
τι! πω ε3χον). The first two we have already met in the previous section. 
Any being can be thought of (ignoring its distinctive qualities) merely as an object, something out there, and as such it is treated simply as a discrete lump of matter, which in Stoic usage is most commonly called 'substance'.138 It  can  also  be  thought  of  as  an  object  possessing  a  set  of qualities,  both  common  and  peculiar.  Plutarch's  evidence  showed  how that  distinction  probably  evolved  largely  in  response  to  the  Academic Growing Argument. 
We must now consider the physics underlying the distinction between quality  and  'substance'.  Qualities  are  portions  of   pneuma,  consisting  of one or both of the active elements fire and air, in relation to which the role of  substance  is  taken  by  one  or  both  of  the  passive  elements  earth  and water. At this level of analysis, matter is not totally undi◊erentiated in a way comparable to prime matter, since earth and water have their own distinctive properties - they are dry and wet respectively, and both have a centripetal motion. But it falls to  pneuma  to endow them not only, in the case of living things, with vital properties, but even with the basic cohesion which makes anything a single entity. Thus from the point of view of Stoic metaphysics, which is very much a metaphysics of discrete singular entities, elemental substance does count as undi◊erentiated, and its role is firmly material. 
The 'object', then, may well be the discrete mass of passive elements in which qualities are found. But the Stoics' usage is flexible on this point, and we hear of them varying the use of the term both downwards, to real prime matter, and upwards to commonly qualified stu◊s, like bronze, or even to peculiarly qualified individuals, which in turn serve as the bearers 137 Simp.  Cat.  18.26-19.7, 62.25-7, 128.5-8. He also, far from comparing the Aristotelian ten with the Stoic four, argued that ten was too  few. 
138 Cf. Plutarch ( Comm. Not.  1083a-1084a) where substance (ου0σι!α) is quite clearly what the Stoics call the first of the four genera. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
408
h e l l e n i s t i c   p h y s i c s   a n d   m e t a p h y s i c s of  further  qualities  (Porphyry,  quoted  by  Simp.  Cat.  48.11-16).  This points to a cardinal feature of the Stoic theory of genera: that an item does not belong absolutely to only one genus. The feature can now be illustrated by turning to the third genus. 
Truth is a body. For it is knowledge (ε0πιστη!µη) capable of stating everything true; and knowledge is the commanding faculty (η/γεµονικο!ν) disposed in a certain way, just as the fist is the hand disposed in a certain way; and the commanding-faculty is a body. (S.E.  PH  ii.81) This is a typical manoeuvre of Stoic corporealism, using the third genus to re-analyse an apparent incorporeal as a body. In so far as the commanding-faculty is thought of as already qualified, and therefore as belonging to the second genus, a further di◊erentiation of it such as knowledge is placed in the  third  genus,  being  the  commanding-faculty  'disposed  in  a  certain way'. Now one kind of knowledge is virtue, and Chrysippus placed the virtues in the  second  genus, arguing that each was a distinct quality. Do we then have a contradiction? Not at all. Relative to the commanding-faculty virtue stands in the third genus, while relative to the body it stands in the second.  Likewise,  we  may  take  it,  the  human  body  stands  in  the  first genus,  substrate,  relative  to  mental  qualities,  but  in  the  second  genus, qualified, relative to its constituent earth and water. 
Use of the third genus in Stoic corporealist analyses is extremely widespread.  It  is  not  always  instantly  recognizable,  because  the  generic  formula  'disposed  in  a  certain  way'  will  often  be  replaced  by  a  specific description of that disposition. For instance, a word is corporeal because any sound is 'air struck in a certain way' (D.L. vii.55),139 and winter is 'the air above the earth cooled because of the distancing of the sun' (D.L. vii. 
151). 
The fourth genus, 'relatively disposed in a certain way', is explained in a complex  passage  from  Simplicius.140 Items  thus  classed  are  not  merely relative (προ! τι, as opposed to καθ' αυ/τα!,  per se).141 The sweet is relative, since to be sweet involves having such and such an e◊ect on a per-139 See  FDS  479-87 for the use of this formula in defence of Stoic corporealism. 
140  Cat.  165.32-166.29, a text very thoroughly examined by Mignucci 1988. In reply to Mignucci's doubts about the attributability to Chrysippus of this genus, at least as described by Simplicius, it may be observed that Plutarch ( Comm. Not. 1083a-1084a) indirectly associates all four genera with Chrysippus, that Chrysippus' debate with Aristo (below) contrasts the second with the fourth genus in a way which matches Simplicius' analysis well, and that the Chrysippean fragment at Plu.  Stoic. Rep. 1054e-f, discussed below, also seems to use the fourth genus as described by Simplicius. 
141 This familiar categorial distinction between  per se  and relative, of Platonist origin, is used by the Stoics, as by the Epicureans and Academics (p. 382 above), but it is not itself part of the four-genera scheme. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
s t o i c   p h y s i c s   a n d   m e t a p h y s i c s 409
ceiver, but it is also an internal qualitative state of the item thus described, which remains sweet whether or not it is being tasted. So a merely relative property like this is 'di◊erentiated' (κατα' διαφορα!ν), that is, intrinsically characterized,  and  can  comfortably  belong  in  the  second  genus, 
'qualified'.  The  fourth  genus  is  reserved  for  items  whose  very  being depends on a relation, so that a change in their relata is su√cient to terminate their existence, even if the items undergo no internal change at all: perhaps 'property', for example, since my property can cease to be property  if,  although  it  remains  intact,  I  die  or  relinquish  it.  For  the  Stoics Simplicius records the examples 'on the right' and 'father'. 
The most celebrated context in which this genus was put to work was the  debate  between  Aristo  and  Chrysippus  about  the  Unity  of  the Virtues.142 Aristo considered virtue to be a single state of psychic health, with its so-called species - justice, courage etc. - di◊erentiated merely by the circumstances in which it was placed, as if, he said, one were to call vision  'blackseeing'  and  'whiteseeing'  according  to  its  current  objects. 
Whether or not Aristo used the technical designation 'relatively disposed in a certain way', Chrysippus certainly took him to be placing the species of virtue in this fourth genus, and criticized him accordingly, defending instead his own view that each virtue is a distinct qualitative state of the soul. 
Chrysippus also used the fourth genus to make a point about whole-part relations (Plu.  Stoic. Rep. 1054e-f ).143 A whole is complete, but its parts are  not, 'because  they are disposed in certain ways relative to the whole'. The characterization of a part can change purely due to an intrinsic  change  elsewhere  in  the  whole.  My  finger,  while  intrinsically unchanged,  can  become  an  invalid's  finger  if  I  break  my  leg.  But  the reverse cannot occur: any intrinsic change in the part is  ipso facto  an intrinsic change in the whole as well: I could not stand in any merely external relation to my leg or finger. The same applies to that ultimate whole, the world, which alone is totally self-contained, with none of its characterizations  depending  on  an  external  relation.  Under  some  characterization everything else, including us, is what it is through its external relation to the  rest  of  the  world  -  a  thought  fundamental  to  Stoic  ethics.  Being  a father is just one example of a fourth-genus relationship which imposes moral obligations. Citizenship, both local and cosmic might well count as another.144
142 See p. 718. 
143 On Stoic treatments of part-whole relations in general, see Barnes 1988b. 
144 Cf. Epict.  Ench.30. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
410
h e l l e n i s t i c   p h y s i c s   a n d   m e t a p h y s i c s We  can  thus  see  reasons  for  accepting  Plutarch's  report  that,  for  the Stoics, 'each of us is four things'. You are not just (1) a lump of matter, but have (2) psychic qualities which characterize you, both as a human being and  as  the  unique  individual  you  are;  (3)  further  dispositions  of  those qualities,  which  represent  your  individual  mental  states;  and  finally  (4) certain extrinsic relations to the world, which are necessary to complete the picture of what, and who, you are. 
 9. 'Something' and 'not-something' 145
The  Stoic  world  includes  both  bodies  and  incorporeals.  Bodies  'are'. 
Incorporeals lack being, but do at least 'subsist' - indicating perhaps that they are proper objects of discourse and part of the background against which the interaction of bodies is to be understood.146 Bodies and incorporeals, which jointly constitute the 'all',147 form a single domain of discourse. Consequently it becomes natural for the Stoics to make them joint members  of  a  single  supreme  genus,  broader  even  than  being.  Possibly taking a lead from Plato,148 they christen this class the 'something' (το! 
τι). Given its utter generality, what characteristics could it possibly have to  entitle  it  to  be  considered  a  unified  class?  A  plausible  answer  seems available from the sources. Even the class of 'somethings' has a membership requirement that still manages to exclude one class of item, namely universals, which are relegated to the separate class of 'not-somethings'
(ου3τινα).149 In short, 'something' is a designation limited to  individuals. 
The Stoics have a formal demonstration of this. Take a universal like the species Man, and let it substitute for the term 'something', or its mascu-line form 'someone' (τι), in a syllogism:
If someone is in Athens, he is not in Megara. 
But Man is in Athens. 
Therefore Man is not in Megara.150
145 Texts:  SVF  i 65, ii 329-35,  FDS  315-21. Comment: Sedley 1985, Brunschwig 1988a. 
146 A third term, which perhaps straddles the first two, is 'to be real' (υ/πα!ρχειν). Either a body or an incorporeal may 'be real' simply by obtainingin the world. Cf. p. 398 above on the present time as 'beingreal', and on the cognitive impression as α0πο' υ/πα!ρχοντο etc., probably referringto a complete state of a◊airs rather than a body as such. For di◊eringviews on Stoic υ/πα!ρχειν, cf. 
P. Hadot 1969, Goldschmidt 1972, Schubert 1994. 
147 See above, pp. 397, 402. 
148 Despite the doubts of Brunschwig 1988a, 62-3, the Platonist Severus does seem to have read Plato   Tim.  27d6-28a1  (with  indefinite  τι instead  of  interrogative  τι!)  as  making  'something'
Plato's own supreme genus: see Procl.  Tim.  i.227.15-17. This may reflect a Stoic reading of the same passage. 
149 See Brunschwig 1988a, 31-3 for the suggestion of other possible 'not-somethings' - the 'all', and  fictional  entities.  At  ib.  56-7  he  argues  that  the  Stoic  inclusion  of  fictional  items  in  the
'something' class reported at Sen.  Ep.  58.15 is non-standard. However, it might also be questioned whether they could be thought to pass the 'not-something' test, on which see immediately below. 
150 Simp.  Cat.  105.9-16. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
s t o i c   p h y s i c s   a n d   m e t a p h y s i c s 411
The syllogism's invalidity evidently arises from allowing a species, Man, to  count  as  a  'someone'.  The  implication  is  that  such  a  species  is  'not-someone'. To make this lesson unambiguous, the argument was known as the 'Not-someone (ου3τι) argument'. 
The  lesson  has  a  particular  anti-Platonic  point  to  make,  for  Platonic Forms were regarded by the Stoics as false pretenders to the status of individuals:
(Zeno's  doctrine)  They  say  that  concepts  (ε0ννοη!µατα)  are  neither somethings nor qualified, but figments (φαντα!σµατα) of the soul which are quasi-somethings and quasi-qualified. These, they say, are what the old philosophers called Ideas. For the Ideas are of the things which are classified under the concepts, such as men, horses, and in general all the animals and other things of which they say that there are Ideas. The Stoic philosophers say that the Ideas are unreal, and that what we 'participate in' are the concepts, while what we 'bear' (τυγχα!νειν) are those cases which they call 'appellatives'. (Stob. i.136.21-137.6)
This compressed but important text is perhaps less a dismissal of Platonic Forms than an attempt to recategorize them in Stoic terms. The universal Man  is  no  part  of  the  actual  furniture  of  this  or  any  other  world,  as  the Platonists wanted him to be. He is a 'concept', the intensional object of a mental act of conceptualization on our part, and as such a mere 'figment' of our thought. Nevertheless, he is indispensable. As the final sentence says, we can be said to belong to ('participate in') the species, and it is in virtue of that membership that we are describable by the common noun 'man'. 
Moreover, the primary Stoic dialectical activities, definition and division,  were  regarded  as  having  these  fictional  concepts  as  their  objects. 
When you define Man, or divide Animal into Man, Horse etc., these are not individual men and horses, they are the corresponding concepts, or species.  Then  doesn't  the  Not-someone  argument  show  that,  as  such, they are to be excluded from rational discourse? Fortunately not, because statements about them can be easily translated into logically impeccable talk about 'somethings'. Thus the definition 'Man is a rational mortal animal' is given the same logical force as 'If something is a man, that thing is a  rational  mortal  animal',  and  likewise  the  division  'Of  existing  things some are good, some bad, some intermediate' is translatable as 'If some things (or 'somethings': τινα) are existent, they are either good or bad or indi◊erent'  (S.E.  M  xi.8-11).  The  important  Stoic  lesson  here  is,  not  to abandon all talk of universals, but to be aware that when you talk about them  you  are  using  a  convenient  fiction,  whose  truth  content  is  represented by generalized conditionals ranging over all individuals. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
12
Cosmology
d a v i d   f u r l e y
i Introduction: the fourth-century legacy
By the time of the death of Aristotle, there was some measure of agreement among educated Greeks about the nature of the cosmos. The word cosmos itself soon acquired a canonical meaning. Aristotle used it in its wider sense to mean 'good order' or 'elegance', but in the context of the study of the natural world he used it as a synonym for  ouranos, thinking particularly of the heavens and their orderly movements. But the word was defined by the Stoic Chrysippus as a 'system of heaven and earth and the natures contained in these' (Ar. Did. fr. 31  ap. Stob. i.184.8-10), and this is a definition that reappears, sometimes with small variations, fairly frequently. It is repeated by the Peripatetic author of the treatise  On the Cosmos  attributed to Aristotle (391b9). The Epicurean definition was not significantly di◊erent (Ep.  Ep. Pyth.  88). 
From the start this definition marks a di◊erence between the classical use of the word and our own in the twentieth century. The ancient use of the word leaves open the possibility that the cosmos in which we live is only a part of the universe. A cosmos is a limited system, bounded on its periphery by the heavens: what lay beyond the heavens of our cosmos, if anything,  was  open  to  debate.  This  chapter  will  therefore  be  careful  to preserve the distinction between the cosmos and the universe. 
Aristotle had already provided arguments to show that the earth does not move and occupies a position at the centre of the cosmos ( Cael.  ii.14). 
These  two  propositions  were  almost  universally  agreed  upon;  the observed  movements  of  the  heavens  were  therefore  interpreted  as  real movements.  An  exception  with  regard  to  the  earth  was  Aristarchus  of Samos, who theorized that the sun was the centre, on which see below.1
It was quite generally agreed, too, that the orbits of the heavenly bodies were circular, and that the shape of the heavens as a whole was spherical. 
1 See below, p. 596. 
[412]
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
i n t r o d u c t i o n :   t h e   f o u r t h - c e n t u r y   l e g a c y 413
The great astronomers of the fourth century, Eudoxus and Callippus, had worked out a model of concentric spheres, each inner one having poles located in the one next to it on the outside. The outermost sphere rotated on its axis once a day. The inner spheres rotated on their own axes, the poles of which moved in circular orbits around the axis of the next outer sphere, in which they were fixed. The observed motions of the stars, planets, and moon were explained on the assumptions that the stars were fixed to  the  outermost  sphere,  and  the  other  heavenly  bodies  to  the  inner spheres.  Aristotle  had  adopted  this  model  for  his  cosmology  ( Cael.  i-ii and  Metaph.  Λ). Not all of the Hellenistic cosmologists adopted the model of concentric spheres, but there was general agreement that the stars mark the spherical outer boundary of our cosmos. 
This left a wide area in which controversy was possible. In fact the classical period bequeathed not one orthodox cosmology but two opposed theories,  and  since  both  of  them  reappear,  with  variations,  in  the Hellenistic period, something must be said about both. 
Before  Plato  and  Aristotle  there  was  Democritus,  writing  in  the  last decades of the fifth century, and his atomic theory of the natural world. 
Plato wrote the  Timaeus, in which he adopted positions that were systematically opposed to Democritus on most issues, although he never mentioned Democritus; a generation later again Aristotle worked out a theory that rejected all the important cosmological theses of Democriteanism. It is  worth  setting  out  the  points  of  di◊erence  in  summary  form,  before looking at the way in which the Hellenistic thinkers adapted them. 
Democritus  held  that  our  world  is  one  among  an  infinite  number  of worlds,  past,  present,  and  future,  in  an  infinite  universe;  Plato  and Aristotle  took  our  cosmos  to  be  all  that  there  is  or  was  or  will  be. 
Democritus believed our cosmos to have had a beginning in time, and to be ultimately perishable: it is a mortal compound, no more stable, ultimately, than the mortal creatures that inhabit it; Plato and Aristotle both believed that our cosmos will remain eternally the same, although Plato wrote about the creation of the cosmos, whereas Aristotle denied that it had any beginning. 
Democritus held that gods had no part in the organization and maintenance of the physical world-order. Plato and Aristotle both gave gods a part to play, although they di◊ered widely from each other about the manner of it. In the  Timaeus - a dialogue of immense influence in later history
- Plato tells a story of the creation of the cosmos by a Craftsman God and a team of subordinate gods. He works out the process of creation in detail: first the making of the heavens, which are the soul of the world, then the Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
414
c o s m o l o g y
construction of the world's body, beginning with the four elements and working  up  to  the  complexity  of  the  human  body.  Throughout,  Plato stresses that the Craftsman aims at the greatest possible beauty of design, given that perfection is impeded by the recalcitrance of matter. Some of Plato's immediate pupils took Plato's creation story to be no more than an explanatory device; but it could not be doubted, because of what he wrote elsewhere  (especially  in   Laws  x),  that  he  regarded  the  heavens  as  divine beings.  Aristotle  took  Plato's  creation  story  literally,  and  expressed  his disagreement with it. In his view the heavens and the whole cosmic order are without beginning or end in time. Like Plato, he did not doubt that the  heavenly  bodies  are  divine  beings,  ensouled  and  alive;  and  he  made their  eternal  revolutions  -  and  through  their  influence  also  the  eternal cycles of change in the terrestrial region - dependent on a single divine Mover. The divinity of the heavens and the absolute di◊erence between the  heavens  and  the  earthly  region  are  common  to  the  cosmologies  of Plato and Aristotle. 
Democritus  explained  the  cosmos  and  its  contents  as  being  compounded of indivisible, indestructible, and unchanging atoms, and void space; Aristotle at least - Plato's position was more complicated - argued that there is no void space in the universe, that matter is continuous in the cosmos, and that on earth and in the surrounding atmosphere matter constantly  changes  its  qualities,  although  it  preserves  its  quantity. 
Democritus held that the heavens are made of the same kind of matter as the  earth;  Aristotle  posited  a  special  matter  for  the  heavens,  endowed with a natural circular motion. Democritus explained the characteristics of  compound  bodies,  including  living  things,  as  outcomes  of  their material components; Aristotle insisted on the priority of form over matter. 
In the Hellenistic period the school of Plato turned away from cosmology  to  mathematics  and  metaphysics,  and  later  to  epistemology. 
Aristotle's own successors, or some of them at least, took up some of the problems of his  Physics  and  De Caelo, and discussed the cosmological questions raised in his  Metaphysics. The achievements of Theophrastus were most striking in the special sciences, but something must be said about his short piece on  Metaphysics,  and about his views on two subjects of particular relevance to cosmology - place, and the fifth element. 
It may be the case that his  Metaphysics  is not strictly 'Hellenistic' at all. 
The text takes a notably critical attitude to several of Aristotle's theses, and  consequently  is  often  spoken  of  as  something  that  postdates Aristotle's  own  major  works.  But  there  is  something  to  be  said  for  the Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
i n t r o d u c t i o n :   t h e   f o u r t h - c e n t u r y   l e g a c y 415
view that it was written during the period of the formation of Aristotle's treatises:  perhaps  it  records  Theophrastus'  contributions  to  the  discussion within the Peripatos before Theophrastus took over the headship of the school after Aristotle's death.2 However that may be, Theophrastus argues for a position that in some ways anticipates Stoicism. He is much concerned with the question of the unity of the cosmos. That is to say, he raises doubts about Aristotle's heavenly spheres, made of a di◊erent element from the sublunary world contained by the spheres, and about the modes in which such bodies can act as causes of sublunary interactions, as Aristotle's theory requires them to do. The tone of voice is questioning, rather than critical or dogmatic: in his  Metaphysics  Theophrastus does not put forward an articulated alternative theory. 
As we shall see in the next two sections, the question of the existence of void  space  was  of  the  utmost  importance  in  Hellenistic  cosmology. 
Aristotle denied its existence, largely basing his argument on his analysis of  the  concept  of  place.  Theophrastus  raises  objections  to  Aristotle's notion that the place occupied by a body is to be identified as the interior surface  of the body that surrounds it. We have a reliable record, in a verbatim quotation from Theophrastus by Simplicius ( Phys.  639.13-22), that Theophrastus developed instead a theory of place as  order (τα!ξι), deriving the idea from the natural relative positions of the parts of an organism.3 Once Aristotle's identification of place as a surrounding surface is dropped, and once other concepts of place (such as place as a three-dimensional extension) become more prominent, the way lies open to the possibility  of  an   empty  place;  at  any  rate  other  grounds  than  mere incompatibility with Aristotle's conception of place must be found if that possibility is to be denied. 
Theophrastus  devoted  a  comparatively  lengthy  portion  of  his Metaphysics  to the subject of causation, and particularly to the range of the final  cause  in  natural  processes.4 He  is  troubled  by  the  generality  of Aristotle's  remark  that  'nature  does  nothing  at  random',  and  debates whether some natural processes can be explained wholly in terms of matter  in  motion  -  as  Aristotle  himself  proposed  in  his  more  cautious moments. 
Theophrastus' successor Strato of Lampsacus also interested himself in the two problems of space and teleology.5 Like Theophrastus, he appears 2 See Laks and Most 1993a for discussion of this point. 
3 Simp.  Phys. 604.5-11. Di◊erent interpretations of this fragment and of Theophrastus' position have been given by Sorabji 1988, 192-204, and Algra 1992, 146-65 and 1995, 237-48. 
4 Especially 10a21-b25. See Lennox 1985. 
5 Texts: Wehrli 1969a, Gottschalk 1965. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
416
c o s m o l o g y
to have been critical of Aristotle's conception of place as a surrounding surface - he defined it instead as the volume contained by the interior surface of the surrounding body - but the scanty surviving evidence suggests that he nevertheless continued to deny the existence of the kind of void space believed in by the Epicureans and the Stoics. What he did allow was a concept of 'microvoid', as it may be called - imperceptibly small interstices  of  empty  space  in  the  texture  of  material  bodies.  This  thesis  was used to explain phenomena such as compression, and the penetration of light and heat through apparently solid bodies.6 It was the basis for the mechanics adopted by Hero of Alexandria in his  Pneumatica, but was irrelevant, for di◊erent reasons, both to Epicurean and to Stoic physics. There is  solid  evidence  that  Strato  rejected  the  purposive  teleology  of  Plato's Timaeus  and Stoic pantheism, substituting nature itself as a satisfactory ultimate cause of natural processes, but it is not clear that he went all the way with Democritus and other Atomists in this regard.7
What was Theophrastus' position concerning Aristotle's fifth element? 
It  has  been  argued  that  he  did  indeed  drop  the  fifth  element,  and  so removed the radical dualism of heaven and earth from the Peripatetic system.8 A  case  can  be  made  for  thinking  that  he  worked  out  alternative means of dealing with the consequent problems of durability and circularity. But the evidence is contradictory, and I believe the balance tells the other way. 
First, the evidence for Theophrastus' retention of the dualism. There is a direct statement that he did so in a passage quoted from the Platonist Taurus  by  Philoponus  ( Aet.  Mund.  13.15).  We  do  not  know  the  context from which Taurus took this, and it might be part of a dialectical passage in which Theophrastus was mentioning arguments to which he did not subscribe. More compelling is a quotation from Simp.  Phys.  20.17, which implies that Theophrastus drew a distinction between the element of the heavens, where locomotion is the only form of change, and the sublunary elements, which are perishable. 
A passage from Theophrastus'  Metaphysics (10a10-19) rules out the possibility that the heavens are composed of elements whose natural motions are  up  or  down;  in  that  case,  it  would  be  necessary  to  explain  why  the heavens  move  in  circular  orbits.  Theophrastus  claims  that  their  move-6 Strato fr. 65a Wehrli. See Gottschalk 1965, and Furley 1989b (1985). 
7 Strato frr. 32-7. Plutarch ( Col. 1115b) claims that he made nature subordinate to chance, and that το' αυ0το!µατον is the source of natural motions. But Cicero ( Acad. ii.32)  contrasts  his idea of natural motions with Democritus' conception of the motion of atoms in the void. 
8 See Steinmetz 1964, 158-68, and Gottschalk 1967. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
i n t r o d u c t i o n :   t h e   f o u r t h - c e n t u r y   l e g a c y 417
ment needs no explanation, and that must be because circular motion is natural to them, as it is not natural to the earthly elements.9
If Theophrastus remains an orthodox Aristotelian in his view of the fifth  element,  he  nevertheless  appears  to  be  more  concerned  than Aristotle was with the question of the unity of the cosmos.10 He complains ( Metaph.  5b19-26) that in Aristotle's scheme the movements of the sublunary world are a mere accidental e◊ect of the rotation of the heavens.  His  own  answer  appears  to  be  based  on  a  new  distinction between heat and fire. There are di√culties in supposing that the sun is composed  of  fire,  and  that  its  life-giving  energy  comes  from  a  fiery nature: fire needs fuel, but the sun does not; fire consumes things, but the sun does not. But Theophrastus holds, in opposition to Aristotle, that heat is of the essence of the sun, and is involved in its actuality ( ente-
 lecheia). The actuality of the sun corresponds to a receptiveness in the sublunary  world;  so  there  is  an  essential,  not  accidental,  connection between the sun's heat and its motions and the cycles of change in the sublunary world.11 To summarize the position of Theophrastus, it was a concern of his that Aristotle's world picture was too dualistic: the connection between the heavens and the sublunary world seemed too much a matter of chance. One of the moves he proposed to overcome this was to claim that the heat of the sun is not an accident but part of its essence, and hence that the action of this heat on the sublunary world was part of the sun's essential nature. 
Theophrastus' successor Strato did away with the fifth element (fr. 84), but the surviving fragments do not reveal his arguments for this shift. 
The  really  important  cosmological  theories  of  the  Hellenistic  period were the work of Epicurus and the Stoics.12 There is much that is new in both  of  them,  but  it  is  nevertheless  a  striking  fact  that  these  two  major schools di◊ered from each other in very much the same way as Democritus di◊ered  from  Plato  and  Aristotle.  Epicurus  adopted  Democritean Atomism; the Stoic school followed Plato and Aristotle. Neither of them 9 Is this claim inconsistent with the view that the motion of the heavens comes about through desire? Perhaps it is the  form  of their motion that is in question here. They move, because of desire to emulate the life of the Unmoved Mover; they move  in circles, because that is part of their essence. On the other hand, it appears to be movement itself, rather than a particular form of movement, that is of their essence. Then we must take it that their desire is itself an expression of their essence, not a cause apart from their essence. 
10 Although I disagree with Steinmetz 1964 about Theophrastus' view of the fifth element, I find much of importance in his analysis of Theophrastus' theories about the connections between heaven and earth. 
11 See Simp.  Phys.  1236.1-10. 
12 That is, if we confine our investigation to  physical  cosmological theories, and disregard for the moment  the  important  developments  in  Hellenistic   mathematical  astronomy,  on  which  see below, pp. 595-9. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
418
c o s m o l o g y
followed slavishly or pedantically: there were considerable di◊erences of emphasis, and even substantial modifications.13 But the general outlines are unmistakeable. 
ii The Epicureans
 1. The goal of Epicurean cosmology 14
If we were in no way troubled [wrote Epicurus] by our suspicions about what's in the sky, and about death - that it may be something to us - and furthermore by our failure to understand the limits of pains and desires, then we would have no need of natural science ( phusiologia). ( KD  11  ap. 
D.L. x.142)
The same three themes are repeated, at much greater length, by Lucretius: the  evils  of  religious  fear  in  i.80-101,  ii.1090-104,  v.1218-40, vi.379-1094;  of  fear  of  death  in  iii.830-1094;  of  unlimited  desires  in ii.1-61, iv.1037-1287, vi.1-42; and in many shorter passages. 
Epicurean cosmology is o◊ered to humanity for its comfort and reassurance. It is important both to grasp this, and not to make too much of it. 
There have been those who aimed to dismiss Epicureanism as a serious attempt  to  understand  the  natural  world,  on  the  ground  that  Epicurus was not a disinterested seeker after truth. But the arguments with which he defended his theories were as good as he could make them; he tackled the  propositions  of  the   Timaeus  and  the   Physics,  15 and  endeavoured  to show that they were wrong and he was right. What matters is whether his arguments were good or not, rather than his psychological motivation for producing them.16
But  KD  11 should serve to remind us, nevertheless, of the strong and tight connection that was felt to exist between the structure of the natural world and the life of man. This connection was not ignored or denied by Plato and Aristotle: the morality of the  Republic  is manifestly in tune with the cosmology of the  Timaeus, and no one can overlook the influence of 13 There are texts that suggest that Epicurus seized opportunities for denying his heritage from Democritus, but these have been explained as critical divergence rather than outright refusal to acknowledge any debt. See Sedley 1976a and Huby 1978. 
14 The main texts are Epicurus'  Letter to Herodotus ( Ep. Hdt. ) and  Letter to Pythocles ( Ep. Pyth.), both preserved in Diogenes Laertius x, and Lucretius  De Rerum Natura. 
15 There is little doubt that Epicurus knew the  Timaeus: there is a critique of the theory of the four elements as set out in   Tim. in  PHerc. 1148, identified as containing portions of Epicurus'   On Nature  xiv (the evidence is discussed by Schmid 1936). There is perhaps more doubt about his knowledge of Aristotle's extant works; see Sandbach 1985, 4-6; for an argument in favour of his knowledge of the  Physics  see Furley 1967, 18. 
16 Nussbaum 1986 excellently describes the status of Epicurean philosophy as psychotherapy. See now her fuller discussion of the whole issue in Hellenistic philosophy in Nussbaum 1994. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   e p i c u r e a n s
419
Aristotle's philosophy of nature on the  Nicomachean Ethics. But the connection becomes even more marked in the Hellenistic period: Epicurean hedonism  is  hardly  separable  from  Epicurean  atomism,  and  the  Stoic Wise Man could hardly be imagined in detachment from the optimistic providentialism  of  Stoic  cosmology.  In  studying  cosmology  in  this period, it is always necessary to take account of the relation between cosmological theory and morality. 
 2. Infinitely numerous atoms in an infinite void
We have two primary sources for Epicurean cosmology: a brief summary in  Epicurus'  own   Letter  to  Herodotus,  and  a  much  fuller  account  in Lucretius' poem  De rerum natura, especially the fifth book.17 Both begin, almost  in  the  manner  of  a  geometrical  textbook,  with  a  series  of  basic propositions of the theory.18 The most basic of them, which concern the existence of atoms and void and the various shapes of the atoms, have been treated elsewhere in this volume.19 We shall here concentrate on the more strictly cosmological tenets of the infinite number of the atoms and of the infinite extent of the universe. 
The  argument  for  the  infinity  of  the  universe  is  that  anything finite has a limit, and a limit is discerned by contrast with something else. 
Since there  is  nothing other than the universe (this clause is missing from Epicurus' text, but is supplied explicitly by Lucretius), the universe has no  limit  and  consequently  must  be  infinite  ( Ep.  Hdt.  41;  Lucr. i.10 07). 
Lucretius adds arguments that are lacking in Epicurus' sparse summary, including an argument borrowed from the old Pythagorean Archytas (see Eudemus  ap. Simp.  Phys.  467.25-6): if the universe has a boundary, then imagine yourself situated at the boundary, and ask what happens if you try to thrust a hand beyond the boundary (Lucretius substitutes a javelin for the hand). If the hand goes beyond the boundary, then there is something, namely space, beyond; if not, then there must be something beyond to prevent it. In any case there is something beyond the putative limit of the universe, and since this argument applies to every such limit, the universe is infinite. 
In the infinite universe, both matter and space are infinite ( Ep. Hdt.  42; Lucr. i.10 08-51). If matter were finite but void infinite, there would be no opportunity  for  atoms  to  collide  and  form  compounds.  If  matter  were 17 It cannot be assumed without argument that Lucretius follows Epicurus without philosophical theses or arguments of his own. But my own view is that he is a remarkably close follower. See Furley 1989a (1966), Clay 1983a, ch.1, and Sedley 1998. For a contrary view J. Schmidt 1990. 
18 See further Clay 1983a, ch. 4 'The philosophical armature'. 
19 See above, pp. 366-9, 372. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
420
c o s m o l o g y
infinite but void finite, there would be no room for the matter. The total of the whole, bodies plus void, remains immutable.20
 3. The motions of atoms
Epicureans asserted that all atoms have a natural tendency to move downwards.21 We  can  observe  that  every  perceptible  object  that  has  weight moves downwards when its fall is unimpeded, and there is no reason to deny  this  same  tendency  to  atoms.  Aristotle's  theory  of  the  natural upward motion of fire and air is rejected, and a defence of that rejection is supplied at Lucr. ii.184-215. A plank of wood held forcibly under water and then released rises rapidly to the surface, although we know that it is heavy and falls downwards if it is unsupported in air. All atoms are made of the same material, and are naturally thought of as having the same tendency as each other. Observation of the plank of wood in water shows that pressure of some kind can account for the rise of heavy things, and this analogy enables us to understand how some atoms can rise, through the pressure of air, even though they are heavy. 
But what does 'downwards' mean? Aristotle had argued that it meant towards  the  centre  of  the  universe,  but  the  infinite  universe  of  the Epicureans had no centre. Epicurean metaphysics allowed for no forces acting on the atoms except by collision: there was no room for a theory of attraction at a distance. So it was not possible to adopt the idea later put forward  by  Stoics,  that  matter  was  attracted  to  its  own  centre,  so  that downward motion could be regarded as the manifestation of this attraction towards the centre of the cosmic mass. Epicurus and his followers were left, as it seemed, with no option but to take up the assumptions of the builder who uses a plumb-line, that all falling bodies fall in parallel lines at right angles to the earth's surface - this is why the earth's surface is generally speaking flat. 
Plutarch says that Epicurus took 'up' and 'down' to be related not to the cosmos but to the universe at large. He writes sarcastically of Epicurus as 'moving all his atoms to the places below our feet - as if either the void has feet or the infinite allows any distinction of down and up in it' ( Def. Or. 
425d). According to Plutarch again, Chrysippus and other Stoics objected to  Epicurus  that  his  theory  broke  down  on  the  impossibility  of  distin-20 See Brunschwig 1977 for an analysis of the argument. 
21 This  may  be  a  point  in  which  Epicurus  di◊ered  from  Democritus.  I  have  argued  that Democritus  held  this  view  too  (Furley  1989c,  ch.  7  (1976)  and  ch.  8  (1983)).  But  the  point remains controversial. A di◊erent view of Democritus' theory is defended at length in O'Brien 1981. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   e p i c u r e a n s
421
guishing directions in the infinite ( Stoic. Rep.  1054b). But this is not a valid objection. Epicurus' strategy was extraordinarily simple: he just observed that  the  plumb-line  establishes  a  direction  as  a  matter  of  fact,  and  he asserted that all lines of fall, however far away from this plumb-line in any direction, are parallel to it.22
The flat earth was a commonplace of the fifth century and earlier, but after Plato and Aristotle it became hard to accept. Lucretius does his best with it, by poking fun at the idea, which he took to be entailed by the geocentric theory, of creatures walking upside-down on the other side of the world, like the images we see reflected in water. They must see the sun when we see the stars; and their days are our nights (Lucr. i.1058-67). 
It is hard to know what degree of obstinacy and obscurantism, if any, was required to maintain this reactionary position at the end of the fourth century bc. Aristotle's argument for the sphericity of the earth had largely depended on his own centrifocal theory of the natural motions of the elements  ( Cael.  ii.14.297a8-b23),  and  we  have  seen  that  the  Epicureans rejected that theory. But Aristotle already knew of astronomical reasons for believing the earth to be spherical, particularly the observation that as one moves on a north-south line, di◊erent stars appear in the zenith ( Cael. 
ii.14.297b23-298b20).  This  could  be  explained  by  the  Epicureans  only on the assumption that the stars are rather close to the earth: the e◊ect is like that of walking across a room under a painted ceiling. Other astronomical arguments, such as the shape of the earth's shadow on the moon during an eclipse, could be accounted for by a disk-shaped earth as well as by a sphere. 
Given,  then,  that  atoms  are  endowed  with  a  natural  tendency  to  fall downwards  through  the  void,  and  that  'downwards'  means  in  parallel straight lines, it appears that some extra assumption is needed to explain how it comes about that atoms form compounds. One might suppose that collisions could occur by virtue of di◊erences of speed among the falling atoms; but that is ruled out a priori ( Ep. Hdt.  61; Lucr. ii.225-42). The reason given by Epicurus is that di◊erences of speed could be explained only by di◊erences of resistance of the medium through which motion takes place. But the void o◊ers no resistance whatever; hence there is no reason why any atom should fall faster or slower than any other. All of them move at  a  speed  described  in  the  phrase  'as  quick  as  thought'.  Neither di◊erences of weight or size nor di◊erences in direction of motion will 22 For a clear analysis of  Ep. Hdt. 60, in which Epicurus explains his conception of 'up' and 'down', see Konstan 1972. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
422
c o s m o l o g y
a◊ect the speed of motion of atoms, so long as they move through pure void, without collisions ( Ep. Hdt.  61).23
That is not to say that  compounds  cannot move at di◊erent speeds. All variations  of  speed  are  possible,  between  the  two  limiting  cases  of  the speed  of  motion  of  individual  atoms,  'as  quick  as  thought',  on  the  one hand, and rest on the other. In a compound, atoms are to be thought of as moving, individually, at standard atomic speed without intermission, but remaining always within the boundaries of the compound. That is a statement that needs qualification, because some atoms escape from the boundaries  to  form  the   eido-la ('images')  postulated  by  Epicurean  theory  to explain perception.24 Approximately, however, a stable compound is one in  which  the  component  atoms  move  backwards  and  forwards,  up  and down and side to side, colliding with each other, within the same space. 
The compound itself moves when the algebraic sum, so to speak, of the motions of the individual atoms has some positive value in one direction or another. The limit of speed is reached when all the component atoms are moving in the same direction - a state of a◊airs achieved only by thunderbolts, apparently (Lucr. vi.323-51). 
But if di◊erences of speed cannot account for collisions between atoms, what  can?  Of  course,  granted  that  there   are  collisions,  they  can  explain further collisions: once atoms are moving in all directions, they will continue  to  collide  with  each  other,  although  perhaps  not  indefinitely. 
However, given that atoms naturally move downwards in parallel straight lines at a constant and equal speed, there appears to be no reason why this uniform and regulated march should not continue uninterrupted to infinity.  To  deal  with  this  di√culty,  the  Epicureans  introduced  their  most famous physical thesis - the swerve of atoms ( parenklisis  in Greek,  clinamen in Latin).25
There  is  no  mention  of  this  doctrine  in  the  extant  fragments  of Epicurus himself. This is puzzling. Some have argued that it was introduced for the first time  by later Epicureans, before the first century bc when it is attested certainly for the first time, particularly in the passage of Lucretius which we shall examine in the next paragraph. Others (includ-23 I have argued that Epicurus was influenced in the formation of this theory by Aristotle's discussion of speed of motion in  Phys. vi, 232b20-233a12. Aristotle showed that di◊erences of speed imply infinite divisibility. Epicurus (I believe) held that neither body nor void is divisible to infinity. So motion is always a matter of 'jerks' - of total change from one place to another without  any  process  of  transition.  So  much  is  asserted  explicitly  about  Epicurus  by  Them.  Phys. 
184.9 and Simp.  Phys.  934.24. See Furley 1967, 111-30. The question of the range of Epicurus'
atomism (whether it was confined to 'body' or extended also to space and time) is discussed by Vlastos 1965, and by Mau 1954a and 1973. 
24 See above, p. 264. 
25 Recent treatments of the swerve include Furley 1967 and Englert 1987; see below, pp. 501-2. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   e p i c u r e a n s
423
ing the present writer) believe that it is an accident that it is missing from the extant fragments, or that it was developed relatively late in Epicurus'
career. It is significant that ancient writers had no hesitation in attributing it to Epicurus himself. 
The swerve served two purposes in the Epicurean system: to explain the possibility of collisions between atoms, and to account, in some way, for the voluntary motions of animals, including humans. The latter purpose will be examined in another chapter of this book;26 we can limit ourselves now to the cosmological context. It is worth quoting some lines of Lucretius, our best source for the doctrine:
On our present subject there is this, too, that I want you to know: when bodies move straight downwards through the void by their own weight, at some uncertain time and in uncertain places they shift aside a little in space, so much that you can say their bearing is changed. If they were not used to swerve, all would fall downwards, like rain drops, through the bottomless void; no meeting would be brought about, no blow would be set up for the elements; and so nature would have created nothing. 
It must be that bodies swerve a little - but not more than the least bit, lest you think we are inventing oblique motions, refuted by the facts. For we see this to be obvious and manifest, that weights, by themselves, cannot move obliquely when they fall from above, as you can see. But that nothing at all swerves from the straight path - who is it that can see so much as that? (Lucr. ii.216-24, 243-50)
The only other surviving Epicurean text that mentions the swerve is the inscription  of  Diogenes  of  Oenoanda,  who  contrasts  Epicurus  with Democritus: Democritus failed to 'discover' the swerve, he says (fr. 54 col. 
iii Smith).  It  is  noticed  at  Aët. i.23.4,  by  Plutarch   An.  Procr.  1015c,  and with some relish by Cicero, who found in it a good target for scorn. It is a
'childish fiction', he said, and ine◊ectual too, because the atoms might all swerve together and so might still never collide. Moreover there is no bigger disgrace for a 'physicist' than saying that something happens without a cause ( Fin. i.19). 
Among  modern  writers  there  is  no  agreement  even  about  the  basic mechanics of the swerve, so to speak. Do all atoms swerve, or only some of them? Presumably all of them may do so, since otherwise there would be an unaccountable di◊erence in kind between the swervers and the non-swervers. But how often do swerves take place? Opinions di◊er widely; the answer depends largely on one's interpretation of the swerve's role in 26 See below pp. 522-6 and 553-7. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
424
c o s m o l o g y
voluntary  motion.  Does  an  atom,  when  it  swerves  from  the  straight downward path, take up a straight motion at an oblique angle to the verti-cal? Or does it swerve momentarily like a car changing lanes on a motor-way? Each answer has its advocates.27 Some things are clear. The swerve of an atom has no cause in events previous to its occurrence; it is in principle unpredictable and random. Moreover in its cosmological role it is not to be thought of as the beginning of the world, or of any world. We are not to  think  of  an  uninterrupted  downward  rain  of  atoms  that  is  at  some moment for the first time disturbed by the occurrence of a swerve: rather, atoms have fallen, swerved, and collided for all eternity. 
 4. The origin of the world
The  Letter to Herodotus  is a summary of the principles of Epicurean physics and cosmology; as such, it remains at a certain level of generality. Almost ostentatiously, as if to make a point, Epicurus describes what worlds, in the plural, are like, and how they come into existence and pass away again from various causes, without saying anything about our world in particular. One of the strangest features is his suggestion that worlds may be of various  shapes  -  'some  spherical,  some  egg-shaped,  others  of  di◊erent shapes, but they do not have  every  shape' ( Ep. Hdt.  74). 
What is emphasized first is that worlds have an origin and an end, like all other compounds. They are 'produced from their particular conglom-erations'28 - a phrase probably meant to have a biological tone: the verb is one that is used in biology to mean 'secrete', and the noun is a vague word that can be used to denote a mass of tissue. The idea is that all things have their appropriate 'seeds';29 and there are some seeds in the infinite universe whose proper product is a cosmos. 
The statement that worlds do not come in every conceivable shape is contradicted by another passage written by Epicurus himself, which contains more detailed information about the origin of the worlds: A world is a perimeter of sky containing stars and earth and all the phenomena, having separation from the infinite, and ending in a limit that is either rare or dense - on the destruction of which all the contents will be confounded - ending in a limit that either rotates or is at rest, having a perimeter that is round, or triangular, or any shape at all - all are possible, since none of the phenomena in our world o◊ers counter-evidence to show that any ultimate boundary is unintelligible. 
That such worlds are infinite in number is something that can be con-27 Englert 1987, ch. 2; Asmis 1984, 279-80; Sedley 1983b, 25-6. 
28  Ep. Hdt. 73: ε0κ συστροφω4ν ι0διω4ν α0ποκεκριµε!νων. 
29 See above, pp. 363-6. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   e p i c u r e a n s
425
ceived, and that such a world can come into being both inside a world and in an inter-world, as we call the interval between worlds, in a region of much void (but not in a great, pure void, as some say); [it happens]
when certain appropriate seeds flow from one world or inter-world or from more than one, little by little making additions, articulations, relocations  to  another  place,  if  it  so  happens,  and  irrigations  drawn  from suitable sources, up to the point of perfection and stability, so long as the established foundations are able to accept increment of material. 
It is not true that all that is needed is that a mass of material be formed, or a vortex, in a void space in which a world can come into being, as is supposed, by necessity, and that it grow until it crashes against another, as one of those who are called 'physicists' says. That is in conflict with the phenomena. ( Ep. Pyth.  88-90)
This  badly  written  text  presents  many  problems  and  is  disappointingly vague, but there are some characteristic features of Epicurean cosmology that  stand  out  clearly  enough.30 The  last  two  paragraphs  contain  some polemics, probably against Democritus, since 'necessity' was often associated particularly with his cosmological theories.31 Evidently the earlier and later theories agreed that a considerable void space was required for the formation of a cosmos. This reflects an ancient notion in Greek cosmology, that our world is something like a big cave hollowed out in a mass of  surrounding  material.  Between  the  earth  and  the  outer  shell  of  the world, where the heavenly bodies are located, it was supposed that there is a vast space, loosely filled with air and aether. Epicurus accepts much of this notion, but holds that the space between earth and the heavens is relatively small, as we shall see below,32 and insists that the existence of a suitable space, and a mass of matter whirling in a vortex, is not in itself enough to explain the birth of a cosmos. Several other conditions are necessary. 
There must be  suitable  materials; this echoes what was written in  Ep. Pyth. , quoted above - like anything else, a cosmos needs the right seeds if it is to grow. Secondly it requires 'irrigations'. This is an extraordinary word to find in this context. It must be supposed that Epicurus wanted to emphasize his biological model for the growth of a cosmos: after the formation of the seed, further material of the right type is needed, just as a seed needs watering. Thirdly, the world does not grow for ever until there is no room left  between  itself  and  other  worlds:  all  living  things  have  a  right  and proper size. After they attain this, as Lucretius explains (Lucr. ii.1122-74), it becomes harder for them to assimilate the material necessary to sustain 30 Recent discussion: Mansfeld 1994a, who finds it less confused. 
31 See D.L. ix 44. 
32 See below, n. 41. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
426
c o s m o l o g y
life, they lose more than they take in from the environment, and ultimately they succumb to 'blows from without' (line 1140). These are the phenomena mentioned in the last line as being in conflict with the idea that the world grows until it collides with another one. 
The  cosmology  of  Epicurus  is  a  mechanistic  one,  in  the  sense  that  it uses nothing but matter and motion as ultimate factors in explaining the natural world, but it nevertheless o◊ers biological analogies to support physical hypotheses. The 'world-animal' of Plato's  Timaeus  has not wholly been  killed  o◊.  The  worlds  of  Epicurus  are  born,  absorb  nourishment, and die. 
How Epicurus envisaged the very first steps in the formation of a cosmos is unfortunately obscure. The standard model for explaining the sorting  of  matter  into  kinds,  used  by  Anaxagoras,  Empedocles,  and Democritus,  was  the  vortex.33 They  thought  of  whirlwinds,  and  their e◊ects on objects of di◊erent shapes, sizes and weights caught up in them: large  and  heavy  things  tended  to  collect  in  the  middle,  light  and  small things to rise and disperse. In very broad terms, this o◊ered the right kind of pattern for a world consisting of earth and water, surrounded by a circular canopy of lighter air and the fiery matter of the heavens. But the vortex is mentioned by Epicurus only in a critical context, when he rejects the theory of Democritus in  Ep. Pyth. 90, quoted above. It is possible that all he meant here was that the vortex and the other factors mentioned were not in themselves su√cient causes for the formation of a cosmos, and that he left open the possibility that a vortex is one of the necessary causes. Later in the same Letter (93), he refers to the possibility of a vortex motion surviving 'from the beginning' in the motions of the sun and moon, and the beginning referred to is presumably the origin of the cosmos. Lucretius speaks merely of 'a fresh storm and an assembled mass' (Lucr. v.436); out of this came a sorting of like-to-like so as to form the great world masses of earth and sea and the heavens. He o◊ers the further explanation that the original mass, consisting of all sizes and shapes of atoms, was originally in such a state of discord that the atoms could not 'produce motions that harmonized  among  themselves'  (445),  and  so  separated  out  by  kinds  into di◊erent regions of space. There is no mention of a vortex.34 Perhaps a circular vortex was posited as the cause of the sorting of material at the birth of  our  cosmos,  but  the  possibility  was  left  open  that  other  mechanisms sorted the material for others - triangular ones, for instance! 
33 DK 59 a 88, 31 b 35, 68 a 67 and 69. 
34 Lucr. v.432-48. The manuscripts preserve the lines in an order that most editors believe to be unacceptable. I am not sure that they are right, but the issue does not a◊ect the present point. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   e p i c u r e a n s
427
The theory that our world is one of an infinite number, coexisting in the  present  as  well  as  in  the  past  and  the  future,  is  taken  over  from Democritus.35 The idea may possibly have been even earlier: some attribute it to Anaximander,36 but it probably originated with the fifth-century atomists. It is one of the major di◊erences between the Epicureans and others in the Hellenistic period, given splendidly rhetorical treatment by Lucretius in the peroration to his second book (ii.1023-1104): what possible  reason  could  there  be  for  the  formation  of  a  single  cosmos,  when everywhere in the infinite universe there is a supply of atoms similar to those that compose our world, performing similar motions and colliding in similar ways? What other compound is unique? The idea was singled out particularly for ridicule by later Christian critics of Epicurus. 
5.  The formation of the heavens: Epicurean
 astronomy
Neither  Ep. Pyth. nor Lucr. v is clear and full on the subject of the first stages in the birth of our cosmos, but together they o◊er a reasonably consistent description of a cosmogony, even if much is left unexplained. It is particularly disappointing that there is no explicit account of the di◊erent roles played by weight, collision, and the swerve of atoms in the cosmogonical process. 
The first stage was the settling down of the heavy and interlocked bodies of earth, which 'assembled in the middle and occupied the lowest positions' (Lucr. v.450-1). But what is the reference of 'middle' and 'lowest'? 
The cosmos itself, with its boundary, was not yet formed. The only available reference point mentioned so far by Lucretius is the 'fresh storm and assembled mass' of atoms (line 436); from  Ep. Pyth.  89 we can add that this mass has occupied a large void space in the infinite expanse of atoms-and-void in the universe; so the middle may equally be regarded as the middle of this space. 
Although the cosmos is not yet formed, this mass has a determinate lowest point, since the downward direction is determined for the universe as a whole by the free fall of heavy bodies, as we have seen above. 
The  picture,  then,  is  of  a  region  of  the  universe  in  which  a  particular, identifiable  mass  of  atoms,  all  of  them  of  course  having  a  natural  tendency to fall downwards, attained something like a stationary position in 35 See Hipp.  Ref. 1.13.2. Democritus' follower Metrodorus of Chios said it was as absurd that a single ear of corn should grow in a wide plain as that a single cosmos should grow in the infinite (Aët. i.5.6). 
36 Simp.  Phys.  1121.5 ◊. For a critical examination of the evidence, see Kirk 1955. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
428
c o s m o l o g y
the universe because of constant collisions among themselves. As the collisions  proceeded  in  this  region,  the  heavier  and  bulkier  atoms  settled downwards,  thus  squeezing  outwards  and  upwards  the  smaller  and lighter ones. First, says Lucretius, came the 'fire-bearing aether', and fire
- much like the mist that rises from pools and streams, and sometimes from the earth itself, in the morning. Having risen upward, the aether spread all round the mass to form a kind of fence ( saepsit, 470; the whole passage is v.449-94).37
A di√cult problem then arose about the position of the earth in the cosmos.  It  is  acknowledged  that  the  earth  is  surrounded  on  all  sides  and above and below by air and the fiery aether of the heavens. What prevents the earth, which is heavy, from falling to the bottom of the cosmic mass? 
This  is  an  ancient  problem:  it  troubled  the  first  Greek  philosophers  of nature, the sixth-century Milesians.38 Lucretius presents the Epicurean answer (v.534-63). In essence, it claims that the earth is in organic unity with  the  rest  of  the  cosmos:  it  is  to  be  thought  of  not  as  an  alien  body imposed on a bed of air, but as an integral part of a compound in which a part is heavier than others. He proposes an analogy with the human body: we do not feel the weight of our head resting on our neck, although we do feel the weight of an alien load when we carry it. Soul atoms are exceedingly fine and light, and serve to lighten and support the weight of the limbs: similarly air and aether, linked to the earth, serve to keep it from plunging downwards through space. 
After the formation of the aetherial fence around the earth, the sun and moon began to grow, being intermediate in weight.39 The sun, after its formation, assists the process of separation of di◊erent kinds within the cosmos by 'sweating' the moisture out of the earth to form the oceans. 
In  Ep. Pyth.  there now follows a strangely worded section: The size of the sun and the remaining heavenly bodies is just as big as it appears, when considered in relation to us; but considered by itself it is either bigger than the body as seen or a little smaller or just as big. For just  so  fires  around  us,  when  observed  from  a  distance,  are  observed according to perception. ( Ep. Pyth.  92)
37 By  aether  Lucretius means the fiery material of the heavenly regions. The word does not, of course, carry the load of theory - eternal circular motion, and di◊erence from the sublunary elements - that accompanies it in Aristotle's cosmology. 
38 See Furley 1989c, 14-26 and for a contrary view Bodnár 1992. 
39 The  Letter to Pythocles  90, as preserved in the manuscripts, appears to give a di◊erent account, in that the sun and moon and stars are said to have an independent origin, not described, and later to  be  incorporated  into  the  cosmos.  Editors  insert  a  negative,  and  take  the  sentence  to  be  a denial of an opponent's theory. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   e p i c u r e a n s
429
There is only one sun in our world, and it has only one size. So the curious contrast between its size 'considered in relation to us' and 'considered by itself ' presumably means no more than that we have to infer its size from its apparent size; the first sentence, then, means no more than 'we can all agree on how big the sun looks to us.' The analogy with fires is supposed to show that the e◊ects of distance are less great in the case of the sun than in the case of objects that shed no light; distant lights still stand out brilliantly, even though they are relatively small. When we see a mountain in the distance, it is so small that it can be blocked from sight by the extent of a hand; yet we know, from a close look, that it is enormous. In the case of the sun, the e◊ect is not the same, because the sun is a light, and lights behave di◊erently. 
It is not clear why Epicurus wanted to insist that the sun is not so very large after all, but one can guess at a reason why he wanted it to be not so very  distant.  An  astronomical  argument  for  the  thesis  that  the  earth  is spherical, used by Eratosthenes to calculate the earth's circumference but possibly  known  much  earlier,  depended  on  taking  the  sun's  rays  at di◊erent latitudes on the earth's surface to be parallel to each other.40 On a flat earth theory, which Epicurus wanted to maintain, in order to support his theory of motion, as we have seen, the di◊erent angles of the sun's elevation observed at the same time at di◊erent latitudes can be accounted for only if the sun is relatively close to the earth, so that its rays at di◊erent earthly latitudes cannot be taken as parallel.41
How do the heavenly bodies move? Epicurus abandoned the elaborate theory of concentric spheres worked out by Eudoxus and Callippus in the fourth century and canonized by Aristotle. He substituted a collection of suggested mechanisms. Perhaps the whole heaven is blown round by currents of air, as a water wheel is turned by the current of the river; perhaps the heaven itself is at rest, and the stars are blown about by internal or external air currents; perhaps they are drawn by the need for nourishment (these suggestions are in Lucr. v.509-32, less fully in  Ep. Pyth. 92-3). 
Two critical comments are needed here. First, it is at this point in the cosmology that Epicurus' practical goal becomes most obvious. The point of his astronomical theory is to show how the formation and the motions 40 Eratosthenes' method is described by Cleomedes i.7. Translated (with other relevant passages) in Cohen and Drabkin 1966, 149-53. 
41 Given the same figures attributed to Eratosthenes, the sun would have to be only about 39,579
stades from the earth (less than 50 0 0 miles). I am grateful to Alan Bowen for this calculation. 
There  is  a  brilliant  discussion  of  the  astronomical  controversy  between  the  successors  of Eudoxus at Cyzicus and the Epicureans at Lampsacus (both towns on the south shore of the Hellespont) in Sedley 1976b. For the size of the sun see Barnes 1989a. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
430
c o s m o l o g y
of the heavens can plausibly be explained without postulating divine agencies. The exact nature of the explanation is much less important than the possibility of such an explanation. So the principle of the  Canonic, that in the  case  of  non-evident  things  we  are  to  take  as  true  whatever  is  not
'counter-witnessed',  is  invoked  here  to  justify  the  provision  of  multiple explanations  for  single  phenomena.42 Secondly,  although  Epicurean astronomy is plainly disastrous in that it ignores the achievements of scientific astronomy (he speaks of 'the slavish contrivances of the astronomers', probably referring to astronomical instruments,  Ep. Pyth.  93), and makes prediction virtually impossible (who can predict how the wind will blow next?), it has one outstanding merit to which full weight must be given. It does not require special laws of motion for the heavens, as Aristotelian cosmology does. There is no dualism in the Epicurean theory: circular motion is explained as the outcome of the rectilinear motion of currents of air, and the material of the heavens is no di◊erent from the material that composes the earth and the things between heaven and earth. 
This is not the place for a detailed exposition of the rest of Epicurean astronomy, as set out in  Ep. Pyth.  and Lucr. v.592-771. The principles of the explanations o◊ered are similar to those we have seen. Perhaps night is to be explained by the movement of the sun beneath the earth's surface; perhaps  by  the  temporary  exhaustion  of  the  sun's  fire  (Lucr.  v.650-5). 
Perhaps the phases of the moon are explained by reflection of the sun's light, perhaps by the interference of another, unseen body; perhaps the moon is a turning ball, with one side light and the other dark, perhaps there is even a new and di◊erent moon every day (Lucr. v.705-50). It is noteworthy that although Epicurus stresses frequently, in  Ep. Pyth. , his use  of  the  principle  that  we  can  accept  whatever  is  not  'counter-witnessed', he makes no attempt to collect together his multiple explanations into  those  which  are  consistent  with  each  other  and  those  which  are not.43 For example, if night is to be explained by the extinguishing of the sun's light, then the moon's light cannot be explained as a reflection of the sun. There are other examples. 
As has already been said, one of the weaknesses of this astronomy was its failure to account for the predictability of the motions of the heavenly bodies - for long recognized as their outstanding characteristic. Lucretius (v.666-79) attempts to bolster up the theory in this respect in an interesting way. His remarks apply to the succession of night and day, but they 42 See above, pp. 285-90, for this principle. 
43 See Wasserstein 1978. On multiple explanation (already a feature of Theophrastus'  Meteorology) see Mansfeld 1994a and see below, pp. 505-7. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   e p i c u r e a n s
431
apply to other subjects equally well. He simply lists a number of examples of regularity, obvious to everyone, drawn from nature: the growth and fall of blossom on trees, the loss of a child's first teeth, the first growth of a beard, seasonal changes in the weather. The causes are always the same, and so the phenomena occur with regular timing. 
 6. The development of the cosmos
The Demiurge of Plato's  Timaeus  filled the created cosmos with its animal, vegetable,  and  mineral  contents  by  making  copies  from  pre-existent Forms. Aristotle's cosmos was an eternal system, containing natural kinds that had existed for ever and would exist for ever without change. The Epicurean  atomists  were  committed  to  the  vast  enterprise  of  showing how the natural kinds that we see exemplified around us might have originated, out of simpler elements, in a cosmos in which there was previously no such thing. It is an enterprise that still to a large extent defeats twentieth-century cosmologists. 
The  fundamental  problem  was  to  show  how  accidental  collisions  of atoms could plausibly be thought to produce our orderly world, stocked with well adapted creatures. Cicero articulated the problem in a critique of atomism in  Fin.  i.20: 'How will this stormy concourse of atoms ever be able to produce the ordered beauty of the cosmos?'
The Epicurean answer rests on three claims. The first is that given infinite time and an infinite supply of atoms moving and colliding with each other,  it  is  to  be  expected  that  eventually  they  will  produce  everything that they  can  produce:
For  sure,  not  by  design  did  the  prime  elements  of  things  place  themselves each in its order with thoughtful mind, nor fix among themselves what movements they should make. But since many prime elements of things, in many ways, driven by collisions now from infinite time past and moved by their own weight, have been used to move, to conjoin in all ways and to essay all the things that by their union with one another they can create, so it comes about that through a vast age of wandering, by attempting every kind of gathering and of motion, at last those meet which, suddenly connecting, often become the origins of great things -
of earth, sea, sky, and the race of living beings. (Lucr. v.419-31)44
The  second  is  the  principle  of  the  survival  of  the  fit,  borrowed  from Empedocles.  The  earth,  after  its  first  formation,  produced  out  of  itself 44 This  is  a  principle  so  important  to  Lucretius  that  he  repeats  various  elements  of  it  in  other places - i.1021-37, ii.1058-65, v.187-94. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
432
c o s m o l o g y
first vegetation, then a motley variety of animal life. Again Lucretius is the source:
And many monsters too the earth then tried to make, compounded of wonderful faces and limbs, androgynous, not one nor the other, remote from both, sometimes footless, or it might be without hands, mouthless and dumb, faceless and blind, single bodies with limbs interlocked, so that  they  could  do  nothing,  go  nowhere,  escape  no  harm,  gather  no needful things. More monsters of this kind grew from earth - in vain, since  nature  denied  them  increase.  They  could  not  reach  the  coveted flower  of  age,  nor  find  food  nor  couple  in  the  work  of  Venus.  (Lucr. 
v.837-48)
Only the well adapted survive: hence we can understand why the present population of the earth can be described in the teleological terms of Plato or Aristotle. 
The third principle, which is implicit in the texts rather than expressly formulated, is that the same causes produce the same e◊ects. Thus once the  progenitors  of  a  species  are  formed,  able  'to  couple  in  the  work  of Venus', we can understand how the reproduction of the species continues true to type. There is no evolution of species in Epicurean theory. 
Lucretius'  fifth  book  continues  with  a  wonderfully  imaginative description  of  the  development  of  human  civilization.  It  is  based  on Epicurus'  own  theory,  baldly  summarized  in   Ep.  Hdt.  75-6:  'One  is  to assume that nature itself was instructed and constrained as to many and various facts, and that reasoning later sharpened up and added further discoveries to the lessons passed on by nature, in some matters more quickly and in some more slowly.' The interaction between the natural environment and human reason brings about a gradual adaptation of social organization; in a magnificently imaginative account Lucretius traces its course in  government,  communication,  warfare,  religion,  agriculture  and  the arts.45
iii The early Stoics
 1. Sources and background 46
It is lamentable that the cosmological literature of the early Stoics - like the rest of their work - has survived only in inadequate fragments. There 45 See also Kenney 1972. 
46 The sources for early Stoic cosmology are scattered and late. Cicero's  De natura deorum  2 contains  an  elaborate  defence  of  Stoic  theology,  which  necessarily  includes  much  cosmological information. Cleomedes'   Caelestia (so-called in the latest Teubner edition by R.B.Todd; for-Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   e a r l y   s t o i c s
433
is  nothing  in  the  field  of  Stoicism  to  compare  with  Lucretius'  great Epicurean poem, hardly even consecutive texts of the length and importance  of  the  surviving   Letters  of  Epicurus.  Epicurus  may  be  counted  as lucky: the  Letters  depended for their survival on the continuing popularity of Diogenes Laertius' work, and Lucretius survived because admiration for his Latin epic outweighed disagreement with his philosophy.47
Stoicism  had  influential  supporters  among  thinking  people  in  the Hellenistic and Roman world. Writers such as Plutarch in the first century 
48
ad
and Diogenes Laertius in the third49 were able at least to give the names of a large number of books, but the texts themselves are now lost to us. Zeno's  On the Whole (one has to translate it thus, because there is a distinction to be made between the universe (το' πα4ν) and the Whole (το' ο1λον),  a  synonym  for  the  cosmos);  Cleanthes'   On  Time,  On  Zeno's Physiologia,  Against  Democritus,  and   Against  Aristarchus;  Chrysippus'
 Physics,  On the Cosmos,  On Substance,  On Motion,  On the Void; Antipater's  On the Cosmos - all these are lost.50
Stoic cosmology is known to us mainly through doxographers, who as a rule were not interested in the reasoning with which the philosophers defended  their  doctrines,  and  through  the  works  of  opponents  of  the Stoics, who were generally not as concerned as they should have been to give a fair account of Stoic arguments. As a result, although we know the doctrines at least in outline, we know too little about the context within which they were framed. It is obvious that the Stoics were opposed to the Epicureans, but we have little in the way of argument against Epicurean positions. It is obvious that the Stoics were in agreement with Plato and Aristotle  in  much  of  their  philosophizing  about  the  natural  world,  but there is little agreement about the extent to which their work was actually influenced by reading Plato or Aristotle.51
Like Plato and Aristotle, the Stoics held that the cosmos in which we live is the only one in the universe. It is spherical in shape, with the stars, planets, sun, and moon moving in circular paths once daily around the earth, which is stationary at the centre. Their cosmos, like Aristotle's, is a corporeal  continuum,  with  no  void  space  inside  it,  and  matter  itself  is merly  De motu circulari; see Todd 1985) is a summary of Stoic views about the heavens written about the first century ad. Diogenes Laertius book vii reviews Zeno at length, Cleanthes and Chrysippus more briefly. The standard collection of fragments is  SVF. 
47 On the letters see above, p. 5. 
48 See Glucker 1988. 
49 See Mansfeld 1986. 
50 There is an extensive reconstruction of Stoic cosmology in Hahm 1977. See also Lapidge 1978. 
51 See  Sandbach  1985,  for  a  sceptical  account  of  their  relationship  with  Aristotle,  with  some detailed criticism of earlier work on the subject. In general, the result of this monograph is to show that Aristotelian influence is not conclusively proven. Often it still remains a plausible hypothesis. For a more positive view, see Hahm 1991. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
434
c o s m o l o g y
continuous, not atomic. The cosmos is teleologically organized, not the result of random processes of matter in motion. This much is enough to place  the  Stoics  squarely  in  the  same  camp  with  Platonists  and Aristotelians, against the atomists. But di◊erences arise at once, and they are of great significance. 
 2. The birth and death of the cosmos
One major di◊erence is that whereas Aristotle believed our cosmos to be everlasting, the Stoics held that it has a birth, and a death by conflagration ( ekpuro-sis), followed by a rebirth, and so on for ever.52 Both Aristotle and the Stoics believed that our cosmos is unique, but the Stoics added that it has a limited lifespan which is endlessly repeated. Sometimes the surviving  reports  of  Stoic  doctrine  distinguish  between  κο!σµο and διακο!σµησι - that is, between the ordered world and its ordering. This marks an important distinction, but the word κο!σµο is sometimes also used as equivalent to διακο!σµησι.53 It must be noted that  ekpuro-sis  was rejected by some prominent later Stoics. Boethus of Sidon rejected it on the ground (among others) that God would have nothing to do during the time of the conflagration (Philo  Aet.  17). Panaetius also rejected it (fr. 64-6
and 68 Van Straaten), believing the cosmos to be everlasting. When the present cosmos perishes, it will not pass out of existence altogether, to be replaced  by  an  entirely  new  one.  The  same  material  persists:  the   order changes. So although in a sense the Stoics and Epicureans were in agreement  that  our  world  will  come  to  an  end,  the  Epicurean  theory  of  the birth and death of quite di◊erent worlds was of a di◊erent sort altogether from the Stoic theory. 
Plato in the  Timaeus  had combined the similes of biology and the crafts in  describing  the  origin  of  the  cosmos  -  leaving  posterity  to  doubt whether either of the similes was to be taken literally. The Stoics chose the biological  model,  but  used  it  in  a  way  that  was  almost  mystical.  An account given by Diogenes Laertius will serve as a starting point: Now in the beginning, God, being all by himself, turns the whole of substance by way of air into water; and just as the seed is contained in the sperm, so God, being the seed-formula (σπερµατικο' λο!γο) of the cosmos, is deposited as such in the moisture, making matter well adapted for the generation of things in succession. So he generates first the four elements, fire, water, air, and earth. These things are described by Zeno 52 There is a brilliant analysis of a possible reasoned defence of the doctrine of the eternal return by Barnes 1978. 
53 There is a good discussion of this topic by Long 1985. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   e a r l y   s t o i c s
435
in his  On the Whole, and by Chrysippus in the first book of his  Physics. 
(D.L. vii.136)
Whereas Plato described a Craftsman God working on a material to make the cosmos, which then took on its own life, Zeno takes God to be identical  with  the  cosmos  in  its  initial  state  (about  which  we  shall  say  more shortly). God is the principle of life. At first there is nothing else: then God creates a di◊erence within himself, such that as the principle of life he is 'contained' in moisture. This is the living 'sperm' which produces the cosmos according to the 'formula' of which it is the bearer; God is the σπερµατικο' λο!γο. God is at the same time material fire, and providential intelligence. 
It is as if the Stoics deliberately combined numerous elements from earlier theories. The emphasis on fire recalls Heraclitus, although there is much disagreement among scholars about the nature of Heraclitus'
own doctrines (some of the important testimonia about Heraclitus actually  come  from  Stoic  sources,  so  that  it  is  di√cult  to  separate  what  is genuinely Heraclitean from Stoic interpretation). The cosmogonic role of  a  transcendental  divine  intelligence  recalls  Anaxagoras,  as  well  as Plato, and the embryological model of the seed goes back at least so far, if not  even  to  Thales  and  Anaximander  themselves,  the  founders  of  the Greek cosmological tradition. The careful analysis of the sperm into a moist vehicle and an active 'formula' or λο!γο is found also in Aristotle's GA. 
In more general terms, this duality is described as 'the active' and 'the passive' (το' ποιου4ν, το' πα!σχον), and these are called the first principles (α0ρχαι!) of physics. There is much hesitation in the texts as to whether they are to be regarded as being themselves 'bodies'. One rather dubious text  declares  them  to  be  incorporeal.54 This  makes  things  easier,  in  a sense, because they are no more than aspects of the single substance of which the universe consists at the time of the conflagration. On the other hand,  the  cosmogonic  seed  apparently  consists  of  an  active  ingredient that is warm and a passive ingredient that is moist, and under this description the first principles seem to be more like two di◊erent kinds of body, thoroughly  mixed.  Since  the  Stoics  adopted  a  theory  of  through-and-through  mixture,55 it  would  seem  to  be  perfectly  possible  for  them  to regard the two first principles as being corporeal, and this is said explicitly in some of the surviving texts: Aristocles contrasts Zeno with Plato in this 54 D.L. vii.134, incorporating the Suda's reading α0σωµα!του, followed by von Arnim. See Todd 1978 and Kidd 1988, 105-6. 
55 See above, pp. 390-1. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
436
c o s m o l o g y
respect (Aristocles  apud  Eus.  PE  xv.15.14.1). Indeed, corporeality follows directly from the nature of these two principles as acted and being acted upon, because the Stoics held that nothing can act or be acted upon unless it is a body (Cic.  Acad. i.39). 
The decision to view the cosmos as a living creature may be regarded as the foundation of Stoic cosmology. We can guess at the reasons that made it  an  attractive  picture.  Like  living  organisms,  the  cosmos  is  a  material body  endowed  with  an  immanent  power  of  motion.  It  consists  of di◊erent parts, which collaborate towards the stable functioning of the whole, each part performing its own work. The relation of the parts to each other and to the whole exhibits a kind of fitness, not always obvious in detail indeed, but unmistakeable in the large picture. This sense of fitness suggests rationality: it is an easy inference that the cosmos itself is possessed of reason, and since reason is a property confined to living creatures, this again suggests that the cosmos is a living being. 
The cosmos is permeated by Reason (λο!γο): this is the most distinctive  claim  of  the  Stoics,  with  ramifications  into  every  field  of  their thought. It is far more than the epistemological claim that it is possible to understand the workings of the cosmos rationally. It amounts in fact to a very  large  metaphysical  theory.  Being  thoroughgoing  materialists,  they had to give a corporeal form to the  logos. Since nothing less than divine power  could  move  and  control  something  so  vast  as  the  cosmos,  they identified the  logos  with God. And as we have seen in the passage quoted above, they assumed that the  logos  itself was something that can have no origin itself, but must be the origin of everything else. 
It  may  be  that  the  notion  of  'seed-formula'  (σπερµατικο'  λο!γο) saved or prevented the early Stoics from working out a detailed cosmogony in the manner of Book 5 of Lucretius' poem. The surviving reports tell us very little about their cosmogonical ideas, beyond the generation of the four elements. The first change is from fire through air into moisture:  part  of  the  moisture  is  compacted  into  earth,  and  part  goes  the other way, from air to fire (D.L. vii.142). Diogenes adds that the subject of cosmogony is treated in Zeno's  On the Whole, Chrysippus'  Physics  1, Cleanthes,  and  Antipater's   On  the  Cosmos  10,  but  no  more  details  are given. A more detailed account of Cleanthes' theory comes from Arius Didymus:
Cleanthes  says  something  like  the  following.  When  the  universe  has been totally inflamed, the middle of it subsides first, and successive parts are  quenched  throughout  the  whole.  When  the  universe  has  become thoroughly moistened, the last of the fire, when the middle clashes with Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   e a r l y   s t o i c s
437
it,  <causes  it  to>  turn[s]  again  into  its  opposite.56 When  this  turning takes  place,  he  says  it  grows  upwards,  and  begins  to  set  the  whole  in order  (διακοσµει4ν).  During  the  operation  of  this  everlasting  cosmic cycle, the tension in the substance of the whole does not cease. For just as all the parts of a single individual grow from seeds at the due times, so do the parts of the whole cosmos, namely, animals and plants, grow at the due times. And just as certain formulae (λο!γοι) of the parts are assembled and mixed in the seed and are again separated when the parts grow, so it happens that all things come into being from one, and one thing is compounded from all, as the cycle proceeds in its set and fitting way. (Ar. 
Did. fr. 38  ap. Stob.  Ecl. 1.153.7-22)
As these reports (inadequate though they are) make clear, it was a crucial thesis of the theory that when the cosmos is periodically consumed by fire and becomes a single fiery mass, the seed-formula is preserved intact. That is the point of Cleanthes' insistence that 'the tension in the substance of the  whole  does  not  cease'.  It  does  not  become  formless  or  chaotic:  it retains the unifying 'tension' which is the vehicle or cause of qualitative distinctions  in  Stoic  physics.57 The  seed-formula  for  the  cosmos  as  a whole, and for each one of the natural kinds specifically, is present from the beginning; the formula is eternal, the generative force is immanent. So there  is no need, as there  is  in  the atomic theory, for an account of the gradual emergence of more complex forms from simple elements. 
The  end  of  the  world  -  or  more  exactly,  of  the  present  phase  of  the world  -  comes  about  through  conflagration;  the  technical  term  is ε0κπυ!ρωσι. Again, little detailed description or defence of the doctrine survives.  The  standard  argument  is  presumably  that  outlined  in  D.L. 
vii.141:  in  the  case  of  ordinary  perceptible  objects,  if  the  parts  are destroyed, so is the whole - and the parts of the cosmos are destructible. 
This theory follows a long tradition, stretching back into mythology, which  told  of  the  periodic  destruction  of  the  world  either  by  fire  (the myth of Phaethon) or by flood (the myth of Deucalion). The tradition was mentioned  in  Plato's   Timaeus (22d-e),  and  this  is  enough  in  itself  to account for its being known to the early Stoics. The great flood is mentioned rather more frequently than the great fire - for example, by Plato in the  Laws (677a, 682bc), and by Aristotle in his dialogue  On Philosophy (fr. 8, from Aristocles quoted by Philoponus), if this is a genuine report. 
The old tradition was mainly concerned with the destruction, or partial 56 I  adopt  von  Arnim's  emendation  ( SVF  i,  p.111n):  τρε!πεσθαι . . . <ποιει4ν>. It should be the moistened centre, rather than the last of the fire, that turns into its opposite at this stage. 
57 See above, pp. 387-90. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
438
c o s m o l o g y
destruction, of mankind, and its subsequent regeneration from the survivors. The Stoics turned it into a rather precise physical doctrine, claiming that the entire corporeal substance of the universe is turned into fire. 
They  had  reasons  for  preferring  fire  to  flood.  It  was  a  thesis  of  Stoic physics that the heavenly bodies, and especially the sun, consumed fuel in the  form  of  'exhalations'  from  the  world  below  them  (Aët.  ii.20.4).  If parts of the sublunary cosmos were thus assimilated by the fiery sun, it was reasonable to assume that the same might happen to the whole cosmos in due course. In fact, this doctrine is explicitly attributed to Zeno of Citium by the Platonist Alexander of Lycopolis, writing at the beginning of the third century ad:58
Everything which burns and has something to burn will burn it completely; now the sun is a fire and will it not burn what it has? From this he [i.e.  Zeno]  concluded,  as  he  supposed,  that  the  all  will  be  totally destroyed  by  conflagration.  (Alex.  Lyc.  Contra  Manichaei  opiniones 19.4-6)
But quite apart from this argument, the Stoics could hardly do other than choose a fiery rather than a watery end for the life of the cosmos. The end of the cosmos was to be the beginning, the seed, of the next phase: the active power in the seed was heat, rather than moisture.59 In Stoic theory, this heat was identified with God; living creatures (including the whole cosmos) thus contain an innate providential agency which accounts for their well adapted structures and capacities. 
But why, we may ask, did the Stoics adopt a cyclical theory of destruction and rebirth at all? Why could they not follow the path of Plato, who held that God would not destroy his own creation, or of Aristotle, who held that the cosmos is eternally the same, without beginning or end? We can make some reasonable guesses. It must be observed first that Aristotle was the exception in Greek cosmology: from the myths of Hesiod through all the rest of the earlier history of natural philosophy, there was speculation about the origin of the world. It was less universally agreed that the world would come to an end: Lucretius treats this as a surprising thesis. All the same, many previous philosophers did theorize that our world would come to an end. Even if we dismiss the precedent of Heraclitus as being too controversial, Empedocles was certainly interpreted as holding a cyclical theory by Aristotle, who was probably correct in outline, although he may have got some of the details wrong ( Phys. viii.1, 250b25). 
58 See Mansfeld 1979, 146-9, Long and Sedley 1987, vol. i, 276. 
59 See below, on 'designing fire'. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   e a r l y   s t o i c s
439
We  have  already  noted  a  physical  reason  for  positing  that  the  world order will come to an end in conflagration: fires consume fuel, and it is to be expected that the sun will burn up everything in time. A di◊erent reason - or perhaps the same reason expressed in di◊erent language - is also reported. God is a living being, composed of body and soul, and his soul is always growing: so there will come a time when he becomes nothing but soul. If one thinks of the seed-formula in this way, it can be seen not as the death of the cosmos, but as its fullest life.60
The cyclical theory is connected with the astronomical idea of the Great Year. The ordinary year is determined by the position of the sun relative to the earth; a year has elapsed when the sun and the earth return to the same relative position. Astronomers speculated about the length of time that elapses between two moments at which the sun, moon, and five known planets were all in the same relative position (Plato  Tim.  39d). This period, of  which  di◊erent  estimates  were  made,  was  the  Great  Year.  It  appears that the period between one conflagration and the next was supposed to be one Great Year (Nemes. 38). 
This could hardly be otherwise, if the Stoics were to claim, as they did, that events in one world were precisely repeated in the next. Socrates will defend himself against Meletus and Anytus with the same words, and will be condemned by the same jury, every time the cosmic wheel turns full circle. One does not have to accept that the stars exercise a causal influence on the a◊airs of men: it is enough that the exact description of an event must include all its features, including the position of the sun, moon, and planets when it occurs, so that if it is to be exactly repeated these features of it must be the same. The notion that all events are exactly repeated in each successive cosmic period was thought very striking, particularly by opponents of Stoicism.61
The reasons for adopting this bizarre theory are not reported by our sources. They must lie in the Stoic theory of causation, coupled with the premiss that divine Providence organizes the cosmos for the best. For if this world is the best, succeeding worlds could di◊er from it only at the cost of being worse, and no reason could be given for the existence of a worse world. So each cosmos must be exactly the same as the last one. 
60 See the quotations from Chrysippus'  On Providence  in Plu.  Stoic. Rep.  1052c, and Mansfeld 1981. 
61 See  for  example  the  Aristotelian  commentator  Alexander  ( APr.  180.33-6);  the  Christians Lactantius ( Inst. vii.23 ) and Origen ( Cels.  iv.68); the Platonist Nemesius (111.14-112.6). Barnes 1978 traces the sources of the doctrine of exact repetition to the Stoic deterministic view of causation.  On  the  whole  subject  of  endless  repetition,  see  Sorabji  1980a,  65-6,  and  1983, 183-90. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
440
c o s m o l o g y
 3. Fire,  pneuma  and tension
Zeno created the concept of 'designing fire' (πυ4ρ  τεχνικο!ν). There are two kinds of fire: one is the ordinary fire that consumes fuel and assimilates it; the other is creative, being identified with the warmth that creates and maintains life. It is also the substance of the stars (Ar. Did. fr. 33  apud Stob. i.213.15-27). 
The notion of an innate heat in animals is familiar from earlier biology. 
Zeno extended it to the heavenly bodies, presumably because of the life-giving heat of the sun. But since the characteristic of designing fire is to burn without consuming what it burns, how can this be consistent with the notion, mentioned above, that the sun and the other heavenly bodies consume  fuel  by  turning  it  into  their  own  substance?  This  seems  to  be another case, like that of the first principles, mentioned above, where a distinction  of  aspect  becomes,  in  some  contexts,  a  distinction  between two kinds of being. 'Designing fire' is, properly speaking, fire in its capacity of generative heat, the active substance in the cosmic seed. It is localized,  in  the  later  life  of  the  cosmos,  in  the  sun  and  the  other  heavenly bodies,  and  in  its  localized  form  it  behaves  as  other  fires  in  consuming fuel, while also imparting life to the sublunary world. 
Cleanthes took up and developed the importance of fire and its localiza-tion  in  the  sun;  his  ideas  are  described  at  some  length  in  Cicero   ND
ii.23-5. But Chrysippus appears to have given the doctrine a new form, with the concept of  pneuma  or breath. This, too, had an earlier history, especially in Aristotle's biological works, and Zeno had identified it with the psyche in animals ( SVF  i 135-8, 140). In non-philosophical contexts, the word can mean either 'breath' or 'breeze' - the noun is from the verb
'to  blow'.  (Latin   spiritus  and  English  'spirit'  are  later  translations.) Chrysippus made a cosmic principle out of it, and it became one of the most characteristic Stoic ideas. 
It is a mixture of hot and cold, fire and air, and it pervades the entire universe, down to its smallest parts: the Stoics developed a new concept of
'through-and-through mixing' (κρα4σι δι' ο1λου)62 to describe the total union of  pneuma  with the rest of the substance in the world. By mixing with the whole world it exercises control over everything. It is the vehicle of (perhaps more strictly, it is identical with) God's providence. 
As the active ingredient in all things in the world,  pneuma  is responsible for the 'tension' that holds all the world and everything in it together. The guiding idea in this doctrine is that there is a di◊erence between an iden-62 See above, pp. 390-1. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   e a r l y   s t o i c s
441
tifiable thing and a formless heap of matter. It is most obvious, of course, in a living being, but even a lake or a rock has a principle of unity that di◊erentiates  it  from  a  mere  quantity  of  water  or  mineral  deposit.  The Stoics  said  that  inanimate  things  were  held  together  by  their  'holding-power'  (ε1ξι),63 plants  by  their   nature (φυ!σι)  and  animals  by  their   soul (ψυχη!), and each was identical with the  pneuma  that permeated them and held them in tension. In one graphic description, it is ' pneuma  that turns back towards itself. It begins to extend itself from the centre towards the extremities,  and  having  made  contact  with  the  outer  surfaces  it  bends back again until it returns to the same place from which it first set out.'64
This theory has important implications for the theory of natural motion, as Aristotle would call it - in modern terms, gravitation. But that deserves a section to itself. 
 4. Void and infinity
The Stoics, like Aristotle, held that there is no void space within the cosmos: matter fills the whole region within the exterior spherical boundary within  any  interstices  (e.g.  Aët.  i.18.5,  iv.19.4).  This  decision  probably arose  from  the  need  to  preserve  the  unifying  tension  imparted  to  the whole  by   pneuma.  Void  intervals  would  interrupt  and  endanger  the unity.65 On the other hand, they di◊ered from Aristotle in positing a void space stretching in all directions outside the boundary of the cosmos, and some of their reasoning is preserved in this case. 
If all of substance is actually dissolved into fire, as the most refined philosophers of nature believe, it must occupy a place thousands of times as big, like solid bodies that are vaporized into smoke. Now the place occupied by the substance that vaporizes in the conflagration is now void, since no body occupies it. Even if someone objects that there  is  no conflagration, that does not establish that there is no void. For if we only imagine that substance vaporizes and expands - and there is nothing that can get in the way of such expansion - it would be void space into which, in our imagination, it would move when it expanded; for of course what is now occupied by it is void space that is filled. (Cleom. i.1.43-54 Todd) This quotation is clear enough. Simplicius reports that the Stoics also used a form of the argument borrowed from Archytas by the Epicureans. 
63 I borrow this translation of ε1ξι from Sorabji 1988. Others use 'tenor' (Long and Sedley), 'habi-tude' (Cherniss), or 'state'. 
64 Philo in  SVF  ii 458, in Long and Sedley's translation. Sambursky 1959, ch. 2 drew analogies between this description of the 'tensional motion' of the  pneuma  and modern notions of wave motion and fields of force. 
65 This is confirmed by D.L. vii.140. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
442
c o s m o l o g y
If  there  is  no  void  outside  the  cosmos,  what  would  happen  if  someone stood on the edge of the cosmos and stretched out his hand?66 The argument as attributed to Archytas, however, is used to prove that the universe is infinite, rather than that there is void space. 
Granted that the cosmos is finite, it would presumably require only a finite space for its expansion in  ekpuro-sis. So it requires further argument to prove that the extracosmic void space is infinite. An argument of sorts is  o◊ered  by  Cleomedes  (i.1.106-9  Todd).  It  does  not  follow  that  void could be infinite only if body were infinite; the notion of body itself contains the idea of its being limited, but the conception of void has no such limit. Whatever is limited is limited by something else, as for example in the cosmos aether67 is limited by air on one side and void on the other, air is limited by aether on one side and water on the other, and so on. But the only thing other than void is body. But there could not be any body outside the void, since the cosmos (it is assumed) contains all the body that there is. Hence the void must be unlimited. Thus Aristotle's claim ( Phys. 
iv.8, 208a11-14) that the notion of limitedness does not require the presence of something external to the limited body is rejected on the ground that  in  the  cases  we  are  familiar  with  there   is  always  an  external  something.68
The thesis that there is infinite void space outside the cosmos carries an extremely important corollary. No sense can now be made of the notion of the centre of the  universe. The centre would have to be picked out either by being equidistant from the boundary of the universe everywhere, or by some distinction of quality within it. But if the universe has no boundary, the first cannot apply, and the second is ruled out because there can be no qualitative  distinction  between  any  point  in  the  void  and  any  other. 
Hence Aristotle's dynamic theory, which uses the centre of the universe as its focal point, must be rejected: the focal point must be the centre of the cosmos itself. I have not found the first clause argued in the Stoic fragments, but the second, according to Plutarch, was frequently argued by Chrysippus in his writings ( Stoic. Rep. 1054e).69
66 See above, p. 419. 
67 The Stoics used the name 'aether' for the kind of fire that is found in the heavens: it is not the same  as  Aristotelian  aether,  which  is  an  element  distinct  from  the  four  elements  below  the moon. 
68 See also Stob. i.161. This argues that the void is infinite in its own nature. Posidonius asserted that the extracosmic void is not infinite but just large enough to accommodate the expanded cosmos in  ekpuro-sis (fr. 97 EK). See now the discussion of the evidence by Algra 1993. 
69 Note that Cherniss' Loeb translation is extremely misleading here, since he uses the word 'universe' to refer to the cosmos. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   e a r l y   s t o i c s
443
 5. Gravity and the motion of the heavens
Unfortunately the texts on  this subject are more than usually confused and contradictory. To understand the position it is necessary to go back briefly to Plato and Aristotle. 
Plato in the  Timaeus  accounted for the phenomena of gravitation by a theory of the tendency of like to join up with its like (like-to-like). The mass of earth is located at the centre: any piece of earth that is unnaturally elevated  from  contact  with  the  main  mass  tends  to  move  towards  that mass, and this tendency is what we perceive as 'heaviness' (weight) and accounts for the fall of heavy objects to the ground. The mass of fire is located in the heavens, and a portion of fire trapped near the earth's surface  tends  to  rise  towards  the  main  mass,  and  so  is  perceived  by  us  as
'light'. If we were located in the heavens, we should think of fire as being
'heavy', because it tends to 'fall' towards us, and earth as light. What gives the elements the tendency to move and thus sort themselves by kinds is the  pressure  upon  them  exerted  by  the  outermost  sphere  of  the  heavens.70
Aristotle  objected  that  this  gave  no  reason  for  the  position  of  earth, rather than fire, at the centre. His own scheme took it as a datum of nature that the earth is naturally at the centre of the universe, fire at the periphery bordering on the sphere that carries the moon, water and air at intermediate stations. Displaced portions of each element tend to move, if not prevented, to their natural place. 
As we have seen, the Stoics were unable to follow Aristotle without any change, because they had forfeited the right to speak of a centre of the universe.71 The most interesting text is from Arius Didymus:
From Zeno. With regard to all the things in the cosmos composed with a holding power of their own, their parts have motion towards the centre of the whole,72 and this includes the cosmos itself. So it is right to say that all the parts of the cosmos have motion towards the centre of the 70 See  Tim.  58a-c, 80b-c. Plato denies that there is any such thing as 'attraction'. 
71 It is extraordinary that Chrysippus apparently contradicted himself on this subject. According to Plutarch ( Stoic. Rep.  1054b-c) he 'often' said that the infinite has no centre or other co-ordinates,  and  castigated  the  Epicurean  theory  of  the  downward  motion  of  the  atoms  on  this ground. But elsewhere, in the fourth book  On Possibilities (Περι δυνατω4ν) he said that one of the reasons for the indestructibility of the cosmos is its position at the centre of the universe. 
One can only hope that in  On Possibilities  he was dealing in a dialectical way with the theories of others  (and  Plutarch  was  treating  him  unfairly).  For  detailed  discussion  of  this  passage,  see Hahm 1977, Appendix v, pp. 260-6; Algra 1988, 160-7 and 1995, 336-9; Wol◊ 1988. Their cosmos must account for its own dynamics. 
72 I take 'the whole' to mean the whole of each individual thing, not the whole cosmos, as in Long and Sedley 1987, vol. i, 296. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
444
c o s m o l o g y
cosmos, and especially those that have weight. The cause is the same for the stationary position of the cosmos in infinite void, and likewise that of the earth in the cosmos; for it [sc. the earth] is equally poised around the centre [sc. of the cosmos]. It is not the case that body has weight in all cases: air and fire are weightless. These too tend towards the centre of the whole sphere of the cosmos, but they form a mass towards its circumference,  since  they  are  naturally  upwardly  mobile  by  virtue  of  having  no weight. In similar fashion they claim that the cosmos itself has no weight since its whole composition is from elements that have weight and others that are weightless. They believe that the whole earth has weight in its own right, but by virtue of its position, since it occupies the middle space and bodies of this kind have motion towards the centre, it stays in its place. (Ar. Did. fr. 23  ap. Stob. i.166.4-27)
Even this text, although it is one of the clearest on the subject, has some points of great di√culty. Let us take the simplest points first. 
The things that have a 'holding power of their own' are the things that are not arbitrary collections but unified objects. The expression 'holding power', as we have seen, is used to refer to the unifying principle of inanimate  bodies,  whereas  plants  properly  have  'nature'  and  animals  'soul'. 
'Holding power' is here used to denote the minimal level of unification, and no distinction is intended between the inanimate and animate. We learn in this first sentence, then, that all unified physical bodies have an internal dynamic system such that the parts are drawn towards the centre. 
Since the cosmos is itself a unified physical body, its parts obey the same law. That this was a thesis of Stoic cosmology is confirmed quite explicitly by Cicero ( ND  ii.115) and it occurs as part of an explicitly anti-Aristotelian argument in Cleomedes (i.1.5). 
The  thesis  entails  the  rejection  of  Aristotelian  dynamics.  There  is  no sense in which fire in Aristotle's system, being naturally light, can be said to be drawn towards the centre; the reason why it does not fly outwards for ever away from the centre is that there is no place beyond the sphere of the fixed stars for it to go, and it is in any case held in by the outer 'shell' of aether. 
So fire and air in the Stoic system should not be described as 'light' in the strict sense. But they must be distinguished from earth and water, and so  the  term  'weightless'  is  applied  to  them.  In  our  text  they  are  also described as 'naturally upwardly mobile'. This sounds like an inconsistent remnant of the Aristotelian system, but we can save the consistency if we supply the qualification 'in the presence of the heavy elements'. In themselves, air and fire have no tendency to move in any direction, but in the Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   e a r l y   s t o i c s
445
context  of  our  cosmos  their  negative  property  of  weightlessness,  contrasted with the weight of earth and water, gives them upward motion -
but only, of course, until they have cleared the boundaries of earth and water. Then the fact that  all  bodies tend towards the centre reasserts itself. 
So the Stoics have an answer to the Epicurean objection to Aristotelian dynamics,  that  if  there  is  an  extracosmic  void  (a  point  on  which Epicureans  and  Stoics  agreed),  fire  and  air  would  fly  out  into  space  for ever (Lucr. i.1101 ◊.) and the cosmos would be destroyed. The Stoics reply that fire and air stay as near to the centre of the cosmos as they can get. 
Arius Didymus' testimony on this part of the theory is confirmed by the Peripatetic commentators Alexander (Simp.  Phys. 671.1) and Themistius ( Phys. 130.12). 
The explanation of why the earth as a whole remains immobile in the cosmos  without  falling  through  space  -  the  problem  that  had  troubled Greek  cosmology  since  the  time  of  Thales  himself  -  is  supplied  by  the same theory. Weight means a tendency to move towards the centre: but the earth  is  at the centre, and so its weight gives it no tendency to move. It would be better to say that the earth as a whole has no weight, rather than that it has weight 'in itself ', but does not move because of its position. 
Perhaps  that  was  rejected  because  of  its  apparently  paradoxical  nature: how could the earth as a whole lack weight if all of its parts had weight? 
That there was much uncertainty about how to express this part of the theory  is  shown  by  a  passage  from  Achilles'  introduction  to  Aratus'
 Phainomena ( Isag.  iv),  which  attributes  to  Chrysippus  the  idea  that  the earth is held in place in the cosmos by the equal pressure of air all round it, just as a millet seed can be held suspended in the middle of a balloon, or so it is alleged. 
There is a bigger problem about the explanation of why the cosmos as a whole does not move in the void. In the first place, since the void has no co-ordinates and no qualitative di◊erences, no sense can be given to the distinction between uniform motion and rest; but that is a thought that had to wait a long time for its articulation. The Stoics had an argument to prove that the cosmos is in fact stationary: if it were falling downwards, then rain would not be able to catch up and fall to earth (Achilles  Isag.  ix). 
This same passage adds the right explanation: all the parts of the cosmos tend to move towards the centre, and so it has no tendency to move in any direction. 
In several testimonia, air and fire are said to be  light (not just 'upwardly mobile') in Stoic theory (Aët. ii.25.5; Philo  QG  i.64 and  Prov. ; Alex.  Mixt. 
218.3). If 'light' means 'having a natural tendency to move away from the Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
446
c o s m o l o g y
centre', as it does in Aristotelian theory, then this appears to be inconsistent with the thesis that all parts of the cosmos have a natural tendency towards its centre. 
In spite of the inconsistencies in the testimonia, we should hold on to the well-documented thesis that all parts of the cosmos have a tendency to move towards its own centre. Plutarch quotes the words of Chrysippus himself, from the second book of his  On Motion:
Since the whole has tension and motion in the same direction, and the parts have this motion too from the nature of body, it is plausible that for all bodies the primary natural motion is towards the centre of the cosmos
- for the cosmos which is thus in motion towards itself, and for its parts inasmuch as they are parts. (Plu.  Stoic. Rep. 1054f )
The centre of the cosmos is not located at any point identifiable independently  of  the  cosmos;  the  focus  of  motion  is  the  centre  of  the  material sphere,  wherever  that  may  be  located  in  the  infinite  void.  It  appears, therefore, that this statement is equivalent to saying that all the matter in the cosmos tends to move towards its own centre: in other words, we have something very close to a theory of  gravity. If that is what it is, it is the first such  statement  in  history.  The  Atomists  had  claimed  that  atoms  have weight, and weight is a tendency to fall downwards in parallel straight lines; Plato had held a theory of like-to-like sorting; Aristotle introduced the idea of motion towards natural places in the universe. 
But is the Stoic theory in fact equivalent to saying that there is a force of attraction in matter itself ? There are important qualifications to be made: the first sentence of the Arius Didymus passage quoted above limits the application to bodies 'composed with a holding-power of their own'. This needs to be investigated further. As we have already noted, Stoic theory held  that  there  is  a   pneuma   running  through  the  whole  world  which  is responsible  for  the  nature  of  each  thing  -  or  rather,  for  the  holding-power, nature, or soul of each thing according to whether it is inanimate or a plant or an animal. Perhaps, then, we must regard the  pneuma  as a causal agent that is to be distinguished from matter as such. In that case we may not say that there is a force of gravitational attraction between matter as such, but only that there is a force in unified bodies, including the cosmos, that holds them together. 
This qualification, however, tends to lose all of its meaning on further examination. The  pneuma  that runs through everything is itself identical with the qualities of that thing, according to the Stoics. Hence, to say that Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   e a r l y   s t o i c s
447
a thing is pervaded by  pneuma  which draws the parts of it towards its centre is the same as to say that its parts are of their own nature attracted to the centre: the  pneuma  is the nature. 
It is important to note, however, that the 'centre' in question is not necessarily the geometric centre of the unified body. In the case of the cosmos as a whole, the centre towards which all things are attracted is in fact the geometric  centre,  because  the  cosmos  is  a  sphere.  But  the  theory  of pneuma  is drawn from biological models.  Pneuma  is what permeates the body  of  an  animal  or  plant,  of  whatever  shape,  and  holds  all  the  parts together so as to constitute a single organism. The notion is applied to inanimate objects such as pieces of metal or rocks by analogy. The cosmos as a whole is conceived to be a single living organism, with a soul of its own.  If  the  divine   pneuma   which  permeates  the  whole  of  the  material sphere and keeps all the parts together draws them towards the geometric centre  of  the  sphere,  that  is  something  almost  accidental,  and  not  an essential property of the attractive force inherent in the matter. 







We have some idea now of how the Stoics described and accounted for the unforced motions of the elements in the region of the earth. But centripetal motion in the geocentric cosmos could not by itself explain the motion of the heavenly bodies. If the earth stands still, as they assumed, then the heavens go round in circles. In early Greek speculation this circular  movement  was  held  to  be  a  survival  from  the  original  vortex  from which the cosmos was formed. Aristotle found it necessary to posit a special element, endowed with the natural property of circular motion, to account for it. What was the Stoic solution? 
It is clear that they did not take up Aristotle's fifth element. The Stoics were more impressed than Aristotle was with the importance of the  heat of the sun. Later Peripatetics found this a great problem with Aristotle's theory: if the sun was separated from the element of fire by lunar spheres of  non-fiery  aether,  how  were  they  to  explain  the  sun's  heat,  and  its e◊ects on the earth? The Stoics accepted heat as the predominant characteristic of the sun, and declared that the element of the heavens is predominantly fire. They called it 'aether', but they meant something quite di◊erent  from  what  the  Peripatetics  meant.  They  drew  parallels between the life-giving heat of the sun, and the heat that is a sign of life in animals. It was another indication that the cosmos as a whole is a living being. 
A  few  of  the  fragments  suggest  that  the  Stoics  followed  Aristotle  in assuming  a   natural  circular  motion  in  the  heavens,  even  though  they Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
448
c o s m o l o g y
rejected the idea of a special element endowed with this motion; but this is probably wrong.73 The disappointing truth is that they fell back upon the mythical notion that the heavenly bodies are living beings who  choose to move in circles. Cleomedes distinguishes between the movement of the fixed stars, which he explains only by saying that it is 'providential, for the maintenance and durability of the whole', and the movement of the 'wan-derers', which is due to choice (i.2.1-9 Todd). The teleological description of the whole is often repeated in the fragments: the cosmos is 'girdled' by the sphere of the stars, which protects it and holds it together. The animistic imagery is sometimes carried to great lengths: there is even a theory, attributed to Cleanthes, that the solstices are due to the fact that the sun needs food, his food comes from the ocean, and so he turns back when he reaches the northern and southern limits of the ocean (Macr.  Sat. i 32.2; cf. Cic.  ND  iii.37). The conclusion is inescapable that although the Stoics came quite close to a theory of gravity, they were nowhere near to seeing its application to the motions of the heavenly bodies. 
 6. Teleology, providence and fate
It is useful to distinguish two kinds of teleology, which we will for the present  designate  'Platonic'  and  'Aristotelian'.  These  terms  beg  some questions that are important in some contexts, but not here. Plato, in the Timaeus,  asserted that the cosmos was produced by a Maker, whose purpose  was  to  make  it  as  good  as  it  could  be,  given  certain  limitations imposed by the materials with which he was to work. Aristotle asserted that nature works for ends or goals, but that this activity is immanent in the natural world rather than chosen and imposed upon it by an external agent. If we ask which of these two models was followed by the Stoics, we have to answer: 'Both at once'. The Stoic view is that God is the maker of the world, and made it to be as good as possible; but this God is at the same time immanent in the world - indeed is sometimes said to be identical with the world. All three of these cosmologies take the view that the world is as it is in order to satisfy the design of the creator-God (in the case of Plato and the Stoics) or to fulfill its own coherent form (in the case of Aristotle). They are worlds apart from the accidental cosmogony of the Epicureans. 
The Stoics, indeed, are the most whole-hearted in their embrace of the teleological description of the world. The classic text on the subject is the 73 Aët. i.12.4 attributes to the Stoics the thesis that earthly light moves in straight lines, while heavenly light moves circumferentially. But that is ridiculous, if taken literally: if the sun's light moved around the circumference, it would never reach the earth. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   e a r l y   s t o i c s
449
long and lyrical speech put into the mouth of a Stoic spokesman by Cicero in  ND  ii.98-153. He explains that seeds are implanted in the fruits of trees and plants both to supply food for man, and to replenish the stock each year. Animals are divided into male and female, and supplied with reproductive organs and sexual desires. Cicero's spokesman runs systematically through the parts of the cosmos in this vein, beginning with the four elements, then describing the order of the heavens, the seasons, the adaptation of plants to their environment, and the devices used by animals for protection and getting food. Much of the detailed biology in this section comes from Aristotle's  History of Animals. But the section concludes with a much stronger emphasis than we find in Aristotle on the place of man at the top of the whole tree.74 It is asserted that the whole structure of the earth, and all of the vegetable and animal kingdom, are for the sake of man and the gods, who surpass all the rest of creation by virtue of their possession of reason (Cic.  ND  ii.133). 
All of this belongs to theology, rather than to science or philosophy of nature. Its successor is the work known to all the students of Divinity in the  nineteenth  century  as  'Paley's  Evidences'  -  more  exactly,  Natural Theology, or Evidences of the Existence and Attributes of the Deity collected from the Appearances of Nature, by William Paley (1802). Whereas the school of Aristotle studied the natural world, and especially zoology, with a view to understanding more about plants and animals, their structure and mode of life, the philosophers of the Stoa seem to have studied it for reassurance about the rationality of the god or gods who had power over the cosmos. 
We  find  no  'History  of  Animals',  'Parts  of  Animals',  'Generation  of Animals', and such like in the catalogues of the books of Zeno, Cleanthes, and Chrysippus. Not until Posidonius in the first century bc do we find evidence of a serious interest in the natural world for its own sake, and then  it  is  largely  concentrated  on  astronomy,  meteorology,  and  geogra-phy. 
So far in this section we have spoken about the transcendent aspect of Stoic theology: the providence of God is regarded as something presiding over  the  course  of  the  world  from  a  superior  position,  deciding  what  is best, and bringing it about. But we must not forget that this picture is to a considerable extent metaphorical in the Stoic system. God is not transcendent, but immanent. The providence of God is another way of describing the course of nature itself. 'The cosmos is a living being, rational, ensouled, 74 Aristotle wrote that plants are for the sake of animals, and animals for the sake of man, in a brief passage of the  Politics (i.8.1256b15-22). 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
450
c o s m o l o g y
thinking.' This is asserted by Chrysippus in the first book of  On Providence, Apollodorus in his  Natural Philosophy, and by Posidonius (D.L. vii.142). 
The early Stoics described God as 'the α0ρχη! of all things, the purest form of body, penetrating through all things as Providence' (Hipp.  Philos. 
21.1), as the soul or mind of the cosmos (Aët. i.7.23), as the fiery  pneuma that pervades the cosmos (Aug.  Acad.  iii.17.38), sometimes as the aether in the heavens (Cic.  ND  i.36), sometimes as being found in the meanest parts of the natural world (Clem.  Protr. 58). 
This doctrine of the total interpenetration of the physical cosmos by God served to unify the notion of providence with that of fate. Providence did  its  work  in  the  natural  world  through  natural  causation.  The Peripatetic commentator Alexander describes the doctrine this way: They (sc. the Stoics) say that this world is a unity which includes all existing  things  in  itself  and  is  governed  by  a  living,  rational,  intelligent nature. This government of existing things in the world is an everlasting one that proceeds in a linked and ordered sequence. The things that happen first are causes for those that happen after them. In this way they are all bound together with each other; neither does anything happen in the world such that something else does not unconditionally follow upon it and is attached to it as cause, nor again can any of the following events be detached from the preceding events so as not to follow from one of them as if bound together with it. Every event has its consequent which is by necessity linked to it as cause, and every event has something before it to which it is linked as cause. Nothing in the world exists or comes to be without a cause, because nothing in the world is detached and separated from all the things that preceded it. For the cosmos would be torn apart and divided, and would no longer remain a unity for ever, governed by a single ordering and economy, if a causeless motion were introduced; and that would be introduced if it were not the case that all existing things and events have antecedent causes, upon which they follow of necessity
[. . .] The very fate, the nature, and the reason, in accordance with which the whole is governed - this they say is God, and it is in all the things that exist and come to pass, and it thus makes use of the proper nature of all the  things  that  exist  for  the  economy  of  the  whole.  (Alex.  Fat. 
191.30-192.28)
Thus the idea of a rigid physical determinism is introduced into cosmology, perhaps for the first time. It is certainly very di◊erent from Plato's theory, according to which reason is opposed to necessity, and the proper nature of physical matter is regarded as a hindrance, in some respects, to the best providential ordering of the cosmos: Plato's necessity, embodied Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   e a r l y   s t o i c s
451
in  matter,  has  to  be  persuaded  by  reason  to  come  to  order.  It  is  also di◊erent from Aristotle, who was prepared to allow a certain degree of indeterminacy in  his physical system. The  new Stoic theory posed new problems  -  especially  the  problem  of  reconciling  human  action  and morality with strict physical determinism. But that problem is discussed elsewhere in this history.75
75 See below, pp. 526-541, esp. pp. 531-4. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
13
Theology
j a a p   m a n s f e l d
i Philosophical theology
Though theology1 without some form of religion to prompt it would be an  odd  phenomenon,  it  is  by  no  means  the  same  thing  as  religion. 
Theology, or at least philosophical theology, is a rational enterprise or at any  rate  an  attempt  to  rationalize  the  irrational.  Rationalist  forms  of reflection concerning the gods, or the divine, are part of Greek philosophy from its very beginning. On the one hand, the primary principle or principles were often said to be divine or provided with divine attributes, while on the other traditional views of the gods were criticized and other proposals formulated.2 But the first philosopher to elevate theology (at least in principle) to the status of  a  part of philosophy was Aristotle, who at  Metaph.  Ε 1.1026a19 a√rms that there are 'three theoretical disciplines: mathematics, physics, theology'. Before Aristotle, Plato had argued that those  who  write  about  the  gods  should  follow  certain  'models'  ( Rep. 
379a6). According to this prescription, a god is good and so not the cause of  evil  but  only  of  what  is  good,3 and  he  does  not  change  but  always remains the same. The sharp contrast with the gods of traditional Greek religion,  who  assume  di◊erent  shapes  at  will  and  may  not  only  favour human beings but also deceive and harm them, is very deliberate. 
Divinities which conform to this ideal play a decisive part in Plato's and Aristotle's cosmologies. According to Plato's  Timaeus  we live in the best of all possible worlds because it has been constructed by a Divine Craftsman and his help-mates. According to Aristotle all regular events and processes in the world are ultimately dependent on the unmoved, self-centred and divine First Mover described in  Metaph.  Λ. Theophrastus expresses this general idea as follows:4
1 For the history of the word  theologia  see Kattenbusch 1930, Festugière 1949, 598-605. 
2 Overview of preplatonic philosophical theology in Babut 1974, 15-57. 
3 Cf. e.g.  Phdr. 247a,  Tim. 29d; for precedent in Xenophanes see below, n. 92. 
4 Trans. Daiber 1992, 270. Epicurus knew this treatise, see Mansfeld 1992b, 1994a. 
[452]
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
p h i l o s o p h i c a l   t h e o l o g y
453
It is not correct (to say) that God should be the cause of disorder in the world; nay, (He is) the cause of its arrangement and order. And that is why we ascribe its arrangement and order to God [. . .] and the disorder of the world to the nature of the world. ( Met. 14.14-17) The  reactions  of  the  Epicureans  and  Stoics  to  these  doctrines  were di◊erent, but reactions they were. In the present chapter I am only margi-nally concerned with the part played by the gods, or God, in Stoic cosmology or in the context of the Stoic concept of fate,5 though some attention has to be given to the fact that in the Epicurean cosmology the gods play no part  whatever.6 I  shall  concentrate  on  three  ingredients  of  Hellenistic theology which together form a sort of triptych: (1) the issues of the existence and attributes of the gods, (2) the questions of divine providence and theodicy, or the relation between the gods and the world and humans, and (3)  problems  regarding  our  knowledge  of  the  divine.  This  division  is  to some extent artificial because in our sources these issues may be blended, although they are also presented as distinct themes. Aëtius devotes separate chapters to the question of the origin of the concept of the gods (i.6) and that of their existence and nature (i.7).7 Such a bipartition is also a feature of Sextus' account; first the origin of the concept ( M  ix.14-48), then the question of existence ( M  ix.49-194). This sequence, first the genesis of the concept and then existence and attributes, is interesting. Cicero's Stoic spokesman too uses distinctions of this nature;8 for the origin of the concept see e.g.  ND  ii.4-15, for existence (including a number of attributes) e.g.  ND  ii.16-44. But his Academic opponent argues that such distinctions may to some extent be overruled ( ND  iii.17-18). They are indeed impossible to maintain in certain arguments, as we shall see. 
The existence of the gods was a traditional problem, because courageous spirits had doubted or even denied that there are gods, or that they care about  humans.  The  first  prominent  so-called  atheists  we  hear  of  are Democritus' contemporaries Prodicus of Cos and Diagoras of Melos, and Theodorus of Cyrene who was brought to trial in Athens in the years just before Epicurus settled there.9 Even earlier the agnostic sophist Protagoras had formulated the following statement at the beginning of his  On Gods:10
As to the gods, I cannot know either that they are or are not, or how they are as to their shape-and-character [ idea], for many [i.e. various] are the 5 See above, pp. 384-6 and 434-9, and below, pp. 527-41. 
6 See below, pp. 463-4. 
7 On Aët. i.7 see Runia 1996b. 
8 Mansfeld 1990a, 3193-6, 3207-8. 
9 Texts:  Winiarczyk  1981;  for  Prodicus  see  below,  n.  93.  See  further  Fahr  1969,  85-101, Winiarczyk 1984, 1990; Winiarczyk 1992 overlooks the evidence in Epicurus, for which see below, n. 15. 
10 Mansfeld 1981, 39-43. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
454
t h e o l o g y
obstacles  to  knowledge:  things  are  obscure  [ ade-lotes]  and  man's  life  is short. ( ap. D.L. ix.51)
In  this  lapidary  sentence  we  already  encounter  a  threefold  problem: knowledge of the gods, their existence and their attributes. 
Xenophon took up the challenge; at  Mem. i.1.4 he has Socrates formulate a series of arguments in favour of divine existence and providence, and of cosmic design. Plato did so as well. A particularly important passage is the beginning of the preamble concerned with the gods and providence  of   Leg.  x,  where  he  provides  an  overview  of  his  opponents'
positions. These men either (a) hold that there are no gods or (b) that, if there are, (b1) they do not care about humans or, (b2) if they care, (b2i) that they are easily persuaded to change their mind by sacrifice and prayer ( Leg. 
x.885b). Plato disagreed. That Aristotle is aware of this issue is clear from APo. ii.1.89b33, where the question-type concerned with being  simpliciter is exemplified by the question 'whether the god exists'. In his view this question takes precedence over those concerning the nature and attributes of the entity involved.11 As Simplicius reports, Aristotle had formulated  an  argument  for  the  existence  of  God  in  his  now  lost  work   On Philosophy. This type of proof, later known as  e gradibus entium ('according to the degrees of being') or as the 'existential argument from the degrees of perfection', was taken up by the Stoics:12
According to a generally valid rule, where there is a better, there is also a best. Since, then, among existing things one is better than another, there must be something that is best, which will be the divine. (Simp.  Cael. 
289.2-4)
Though the available evidence does not permit us to say to what extent the Hellenistic philosophers were influenced by Aristotle's school treatises,13 scholars believe that his so-called exoteric works were in circulation.  The  references  to  and  summaries  of  Aristotelian  views  and  tenets given at Cic.  ND  i.107 and ii.95-6, for instance, are generally thought to derive from the  On Philosophy  which is cited at i.33. 
ii Existence and attributes
Because they wished to counter the negative positions advocated by the so-called atheists, Epicurus as well as Zeno and his followers were obliged 11 Mansfeld 1990a, 3198, 1992c, 70-6. 
12 Cf. Verbeke 1949, 186. On superlatives in Plato's theology see Runia 1992. 
13 Sandbach 1985, but the matter is far from being settled. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
e x i s t e n c e   a n d   a t t r i b u t e s 455
to  formulate  arguments  in  support  of  the  existence  of  the  gods.  In  the On Nature  Epicurus  mentioned  the  opponents  by  name  according  to Philodemus:14
Epicurus charges those who eliminate the divine from among the things that exist with total lunacy; e.g. in book twelve he criticizes Prodicus and Diagoras and Critias and others . . . 15 (Phld.  De Piet. 519-27 Obbink) His tersely formulated main argument in favour of their existence stands Protagoras' on its head:
For there are gods, since the knowledge of them is self-evident16 ( enarge-s
 . . . gno-sis). (Ep.  Ep. Men. 124)
'Self-evident' or 'vivid' knowledge according to Epicurus is only possible of what is real. But further proofs of the existence of the gods, such as were formulated by the Stoics, are not provided. No direct and unambiguous textual evidence survives which explains this epistemic process.17
What we do have is a short account of the god as a living being ( zo-ion)18
based  on  the  'common  notion'  ( koine- noe-sis)  or  'preconception'
( prole-psis),19 which also furnishes us with his essential attributes, that is to say blessedness and indestructibility:
First of all, acknowledging that the god is a living being that is indestructible  and  blessed,  even  as  the  common  notion  of  'the  god'  indicates, do not connect with him anything alien to his indestructibility or inappropriate to his blessedness. Nay, hold about him everything that is capable  of  maintaining  his  blessedness  along  with  his  indestructibility.20 For there are gods, since the knowledge of them is self-evident. 
But such as the many believe them to be they are not, for they do not maintain  them  consistently  with  the  way  they  acknowledge  them. 
Impious is not he who eliminates the gods of the many but he who connects  the  views  of  the  many  with  the  gods.  For  the  assertions  of  the many concerning gods are not preconceptions but false beliefs. (Ep.  Ep. 
 Men. 123-4)
14 Text: Obbink 1996, 142-3. 
15 Long and Sedley 1987, vol. ii, 151 argue that Epicurus criticized those 'who were held to have explained the gods as calculated human fictions'. This is correct for Critias but not for Diagoras and only in part for Prodicus. The atheism of Diagoras and Protagoras is criticized Diog. Oen. 
fr. 16 Smith. 
16 For the history of the term see Zanker 1981, who argues that literary critics borrowed it from the Epicureans. At D.H.  Lys. 7,  enargeia  is the stylistic e◊ect which turns the listener into an eye-witness. 
17 See above, pp. 276-83. 
18 Mansfeld 1993, 175-80. Obbink 1996, 11 n. 5 argues that  Ep. Men.  123 proves that this is 'how we are instructed to  think [his italics] of the gods as existing': the obvious reply is that we have to do this because they exist. 
19 Schofield 1980b, 291-4. 
20 Paraphrased (without Epicurus' name) at Porph.  Marc. 17. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
456
t h e o l o g y
We must add  KD  1:
What  is  blessed  and  indestructible  knows  no  trouble  itself  nor  causes trouble to any other, so that it is never constrained by fits of anger, or by favours; for everything of this kind (is) only in the weak. (D.L. x.139) We see that these passages do not seem to specify the manner of existence  of  the  gods,  and  that  they  tell  us  nothing  about  their  shape  or appearance, or their habitat (supposing they do have one). Later sources tell us that Epicurus believed the gods to have the same shape as humans. 
The  primary  evidence  is  the  di√cult  scholion  to   KD  1,  which  cites
'another  passage'  by  Epicurus  and  so  should  be  accepted.21 Cic.  ND
i.46 -9  on  the  one  hand  appeals  to  preconception,  and  on  the  other argues (i) that human shape is the most beautiful and (ii) that you cannot have  blessedness  without  virtue  and  virtue  without  the  rationality which is only found in the  Gestalt  of man. These arguments, however, may be a later development. Furthermore, in later sources the gods are said  to  dwell  in  the  so-called   metakosmia  or   intermundia,  the  'empty spaces between worlds'.22 Lucr. v.146-5523 a√rms that the dwelling-places of the gods are not anywhere inside the cosmos.24 Their abodes must be entirely di◊erent from ours, just as their fine-textured bodies are  di◊erent  from  our  bodies.  He  promises  that  he  will  expound  this matter in more detail, but unfortunately did not make good his promise. 
Cic.  ND  i.49 tells us that 'the nature of the gods is such that it is perceived not by the senses but by the mind' because they have neither the solidity nor the individuality of the objects around us. One specific thesis is however attributed to Hermarchus, cited at Philodemus  On Gods, PHerc.  152/7,  col.  13.20-41:25 the  gods  breathe  and  are  not  mute  but converse  with  each  other,26 since  felicity  is  incompatible  with  lack  of conversation. He is even said to have provided an argument: the gods are living beings, and the notion of a living being entails that of breathing, just as that of a fish that of water and of a bird that of wings; breathing, we  may  infer,  is  a  'permanent  property'  of  the  gods.  Philodemus  col. 
4.8-13 adds that their language is Greek. He also tells us, col. 10.25-30, 21 Cf. Aët. i.7.34, and see below, n. 115 and text thereto. 
22 Cic.  ND  i.18,  Div. ii.40, Quint.  Inst. vii.3.5, Hipp.  Ref. i.22.3. 
23 Cf. ii.646-51 (ending with a quotation of part of  KD  1), iii.18-24. For the di◊erences between Lucretius' and Epicurus' views see Dionigi 1976, 120-3. 
24 Cf. Atticus fr. 3.75-81 des Places, with the comments of Obbink 1996, 8 n. 1. 
25 Text: Herm. fr. 32 Longo Auricchio 1988; comments  ib. 128-37. The edition of Phld.  On Gods by Diels 1916-17 is unreliable; I quote only passages which have been newly edited. 
26 S.E.  M  ix.178 (which may go back to Carneades) seems to attribute the idea that the god is gifted with speech to Epicurus. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
e x i s t e n c e   a n d   a t t r i b u t e s 457
that  the  Epicureans  not  only  accept  the  existence  of  the  gods  of  the Panhellenes but say that there are even more. But we are unable to determine to what extent the ideas found in our later sources may be traced back to Hermarchus and Epicurus.27
Cicero and Sextus have preserved a whole battery of Stoic proofs in syllogistic form which are concerned with the existence, attributes and identification of the gods or God.28 This very form inspires confidence as to their  historical  reliability;  what  we  have  must  be  rather  close  to  what Zeno and his successors wrote, as is also clear from the fact that revised versions of individual premisses were proposed. The Stoics held that such arguments  were  needed  to   prove  existence  and  providence:  some  by resemblance, some by analogy, some by transposition, and some  e contra-rio (compare the account of concept-formation at D.L. vii.52). Whether they work is another thing entirely.29
We  may  start  with  a  syllogism  by  Zeno30 pertaining  to  existence; appealing to worship he argued as follows:
The gods one may honour on good grounds ( eulogo-s);31 but those who do not exist one may not honour on good grounds; so the gods exist. 
(S.E.  M  ix.133)
Just  as  the  city  honours  real  persons  by  erecting  statues,  publishing decrees, giving them citizenship, naming days after them and so on,32 so men honour the gods by erecting statues, building temples, performing religious  rites,  holding  festivals,  composing  and  reciting  hymns  and  so forth.  Zeno's  argument  was  understandably  criticized  by  opponents.33
Diogenes of Seleucia tried to make it less vulnerable. Using a traditional interpretative  ploy,  i.e.  bringing  what  he  supposed  to  be  its  implicit meaning out into the open, he formulated the second premiss as follows: but those who are not of such a nature as to exist one may not honour on good grounds. (S.E.  M  ix.134)
27 Long and Sedley 1987, vol. i,147-9 argue that they may not. For the interpretation of Epicurus by his followers see Erler 1992a and b, 1993. For Philodemus' star-gods see below, n. 58, for permanent properties see above, pp. 379-82. 
28 Full treatment in Dragona-Monachou 1976, 41-129. For Stoic syllogistic see pp. 121-5. 
29 Schofield 1980b, 305-7. 
30 On Zeno's syllogisms see Schofield 1983. 
31 The  logos-element in  eulogo-s  should not be pressed,  pace  Dragona-Monachou 1976, 47-9. 
32 For a list of 'wise men' honoured by cities see Alcidamas  ap. Arist.  Rhet. ii.23.1398b10-20. Elis made Pyrrho a high priest and on his account gave exemption from taxation to all philosophers, and Athens honoured him with citizenship (D.L. ix.64, 65). For the  he-mera epo-numos ('day celebrating a person') see Plu.  Praec. Ger. Reip. 820d, D.L. ii.14-15. Zeno himself is said to have been honoured by an Athenian decree (D.L. vii.10-12) in which what we may call the 'good grounds'
are formulated. 
33 The argument contra cited by Sextus replaces the gods by the Stoic Wise Man. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
458
t h e o l o g y
Sextus explains that the gods may be put on a par with atoms. The concept of an atom includes that it is imperishable and ungenerated, so if they existed at any time they do so now. In its revised form the second premiss is by some scholars believed to anticipate the ontological argument, made famous  by  Anselm  of  Canterbury,  according  to  which  God's  essence entails his existence.34
Another syllogism (or rather set of similar syllogisms) by Zeno is clearly dependent  on  Aristotle's  argument  from  the  degrees  of  perfection,  but also is a form of what came to be called the  via eminentiae, that is to say the argument that the attributes of the divinity are perfect:
What is rational is better than what is not rational; nothing is better than the cosmos; so the cosmos is rational. 
The same holds in regard of what is intelligent, and also in regard of what partakes of being animate. (Cic.  ND  ii.21 and S.E.  M  ix.104) Cicero adds that it follows that the world is God. It is self-evident that that than which there is nothing better must be the best of what is available. 
That the best there is will be God is already the conclusion of Aristotle's argument. That it is the world which is the best there is, however, is simply presupposed in Zeno's second premiss. In fact, we do not have his proof that there is nothing which is better than the world though, as we shall see, one by Chrysippus is extant. Zeno is here concerned not so much with the existence of the gods, or God, as with proving the attributes of the  cosmos: animate, intelligent, rational.35 The argument concerning the existence of the divine is implicit; if what possesses these attributes is the best there is, it  can  only  be  divine.  This  issue  becomes  clearer  if  we  compare  Zeno's arguments with those of Cleanthes.36 The existential argument from worship may be interpreted as concerned with the human conceptions of God. 
But these conceptions do not yet provide a correct picture of the divine; they have to be revised and amplified. 
Zeno's arguments show how Stoic theology is an essential ingredient of Stoic natural philosophy, and conversely, and it is perhaps no accident that  he  did  not  write  a  separate  treatise  dealing  with  theology. 
Nevertheless, our sources present these syllogisms (and two others still to be  quoted)  as  arguments  in  favour  of  the  existence  of  the  god(s).  The Dialectician Alexinus refuted Zeno by pointing out that what is poetical is better than what is not poetical, so the cosmos is a poet too, etc. Later 34 E.g. Dragona-Monachou 1976, 46, Dumont 1982, Hankinson 1995, 241. Brunschwig 1994d, with useful references to the literature, argues contra. 
35 Cf. Long 1990, 282. For the history of the idea of the cosmic God see Festugière 1949, 75-340, 375-424. 
36 Below, p. 459. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
e x i s t e n c e   a n d   a t t r i b u t e s 459
Stoic exegetes defended Zeno's position by insisting that 'better' means
'absolutely better'. Archilochus is a better poet than Socrates but not a better person (S.E.  M  ix.108-10).37
That the cosmos is sentient and rational was proved by Zeno through two other syllogisms as well. These argue by analogy (according to a version of what came to be called the  via analogiae) and similarity, i.e. from the part to the whole.38 The first is as follows:
No part of anything that lacks sensation can be sentient; but parts of the cosmos are sentient; so the cosmos does not lack sensation. (S.E.  M  ix.85, Cic.  ND  ii.22)
The second runs (S.E.  M  ix.101, with a slightly di◊erent version at Cic.  ND
ii.22):
What emits a rational seed ( sperma logikon)39 is itself rational; the cosmos emits a rational seed; so the cosmos is rational. 
It is interesting to note that in our sources no version of the cosmological argument from design is attributed to Zeno, that is to say the argument proving God's existence from the regularity to be observed in the heavens and in natural processes in general, the technical formula for which is  sen-
 sus dei ex operibus suis. 
Cleanthes too worked out a version of an existential argument from the degrees of perfection, combining it with that from the part to the whole. 
This is too long to quote in full; it begins as follows:
If one thing is better than another, there will be a  best  thing; if one soul is better than another, there will be a best soul. And if one living being is better than another, there will be a best living being, for such matters are not of such a nature as to proceed to infinity. (S.E.  M  ix.88) Cleanthes next shows that some living beings are better than others but that not even man is the best, for he is a weak and mostly evil creature. 
Accordingly, 
What is perfect and best will be better than man and fully possess all the virtues and be immune to evil, and this will not be di◊erent from God. So God exists. (S.E.  M  ix.88)
Cleanthes naturally must have agreed with Zeno's proofs. His own argument is concerned with stipulating in addition and by analogy that the god has all the virtues, that is to say wisdom, courage, temperance and justice 37 Cf. Cic.  ND  iii.22-3, where however Alexinus' name is not mentioned and the counter-argument is omitted. 
38 Precedent at Xen.  Mem. i.4.8, noted by Cic.  ND  ii.18 and S.E.  M  ix.92-5. 
39 See above, p. 436. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
460
t h e o l o g y
as well as all those that are subordinate to these cardinal virtues. Cleanthes, in short, explicitly integrates theology and ethics. 
Chrysippus used the argument from the degrees of perfection as well, combining it with the already traditional argument from design: If  there  is  anything  in  nature  that  man's  mind  and  human  reason, strength  and  power  cannot  bring  about,  that  which  brings  it  about  is certainly better than man; now the phenomena in the heavens and what exhibits everlasting regularity cannot be brought about by man; therefore  that  by  which  they  are  brought  about  is  better  than  man  -  what other name is there for this than 'god'? (Cic.  ND  ii.16) Interestingly enough, Chrysippus here does not argue from the 'better' to the 'best'.40 Following the view of Cleanthes which is attested at Cic.  ND
ii.15, Chrysippus also appeals to design according to Cic.  ND  ii.17, where the order and arrangement of the cosmos are said to be analogous to that of a beautiful human dwelling. 
Another Chrysippean argument, a complex one paraphrased by Cicero, begins by o◊ering a justification of the premiss assumed by Zeno, viz. that there is nothing that is better than the cosmos:
Just as a shield-case is designed for a shield and a sheath for a sword, so everything else except the cosmos is designed for the sake of some other thing.  [.  .  .]  But  the  cosmos  is  entirely  perfect,  because  it  contains  all things and there is nothing which is not within it.41 (Cic.  ND  ii.37-8) Chrysippus radicalizes the argument from teleology and design,42 already found  at  Xen.  Mem.  i.4.5-6,  which  is  also  a  major  feature  of  Plato's Timaeus.43 We may compare the argument that 'the cosmos alone is self-su√cient' quoted from  On Providence (hereafter  De Prov.) i at Plu.  Stoic. 
 Rep.  1052d. The emphasis on the fact that the teleological series must have a stop will be indebted to Cleanthes. The proof reported by Cicero continues by arguing from perfection to rationality (as in Zeno) and virtue (as in Cleanthes):
How then can it lack what is the best? But there is nothing better than intelligence and reason, which the cosmos therefore cannot lack. 
40 It seems to be implied in the first part of the argument that follows at ii.16: 'if there are no gods, then what in the nature of things can be better than man? For reason, than which there is nothing better, is in man.'
41 That there is no matter outside the cosmos was already argued by Plato  Tim. 32c-33b, Arist. 
 Cael. ii.9.278b21-a11, and Arist.(?)  ap. Philo  Aet. 21. 
42 For Chrysippus' teleology cf. e.g. the report at Plu. fr. 193 Sandb.  apud  Porph.  Abst.  iii 20 and the quotations from the  On Nature  at Plu.  Stoic. Rep.  1044c-d. 
43 Cf. Arist. fr. 10 R3  ap. S.E.  M  ix.22. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
e x i s t e n c e   a n d   a t t r i b u t e s 461
[. . .] That which is best in the cosmos as a whole must be present in what is perfect and self-su√cient; but nothing is more perfect than the cosmos, nothing better than virtue; therefore the cosmos has its own and proper virtue. [. . .] Therefore it is wise, and consequently divine.44 (Cic. 
 ND  ii.38-9)
Information  concerning  the  detailed  theological  doctrines  of  Zeno, Cleanthes, Chrysippus and Diogenes of Seleucia is to be found in the parallel  accounts  at  Cic.  ND  i.36-41  and  Phld.  De  Piet.,  PHerc.  1428,  cols. 
1-10.8.45 These  presumably  derive  from  an  earlier  Epicurean  survey which  is  critical  of  Stoic  theology,  but  its  contents  agree  with  what  is reported in unprejudiced sources.46 The early Stoic scholarchs provided allegorical interpretations of the commonly accepted gods;47 more specifically, they declared that the heavens and heavenly bodies are what the traditional names really represent, as other philosophers had done before them.48 Zeno  argued  that  the  cosmos  taken  as  a  whole  is  God,  and declared that the parts of the cosmos, especially the aether and the heavenly bodies, are gods. Cleanthes, who composed his famous  Hymn  and wrote an  On Gods (D.L. vii.175), declared the aether and the mind and soul of the cosmos and the heavenly bodies to be God and gods. The titles of two treatises by Chrysippus are cited which deal with theological themes: a work  On Gods  in at least three books (e.g. Plu.  Stoic. Rep.  1052b), and a treatise  De Prov. in at least four (Gell. vii.1-2).49 Theological topics were also treated by Chrysippus in other works. It is worthwhile to quote part of Philodemus' detailed description of his theology:50
Chrysippus, who traces everything back to Zeus, says in book one of his On Gods  that Zeus is the Reason which administers all things and the Soul of the All, and that all things by participation therein [are in various ways alive . . .],51 even the stones, which is why he is called  Ze-na ('Life'), and (he is called)  Dia ('Through') because he is the Cause and Master of all things. The Cosmos itself is animate, and the Regent Part and Soul of the Whole is God; the argument valid in respect of Zeus also holds for the Common Nature of all things and Destiny and Necessity. 
And Lawfulness and Right and Concord and Peace and Love and so on 44 Cf. Cic.  Acad.  ii.119. The questions concerned with the fact that it is a living being, rational, reasonable and a god were treated in Chrysippus  On Nature  v,  ap. Phld.  De Piet.,  PHerc.  1428, cols. 
7.31-8.4 (for the text see next n.); see Schofield 1991, 75-6. 
45 Text: Henrichs 1974, with German trans. which I have not followed in all respects; note that cols. 1-3 (on Zeno and Cleanthes) are mostly too damaged to be intelligible. 
46 E.g. D.L. vii.147-9. 
47 Cf. Cic.  ND  iii.63; survey in Pépin 1976, 125-31. 
48 E.g. [Plato]  Epin. 980a-988e, Arist.  Cael. i.3.270b5-12 and at Cic.  ND  ii.41, 44. 
49 For the contents Gercke 1885 is still useful. 
50 Text: Henrichs 1974. 
51 Several lines are missing. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
462
t h e o l o g y
are the same thing. And there are no male or female gods, just as there are no (male or female) cities or virtues, but they are merely given male and  female  names  though  they  are  the  same,  as  for  instance  Mooness and  Moon.  And  Ares  pertains  to  war  and  either  side  in  battle,  and Hephaestus  is  fire,  and  Cronus  is  the  stream  of  what  flows,  Rhea  the earth, Zeus the aether - others say this is Apollo - and Demeter the earth or rather the  pneuma  in the earth. And it is infantile to describe and form gods with human shape,52 just as (infantile as to believe in) cities and rivers and places and passions (with human shape). And Zeus is the air surrounding the earth, and the dark (air) is Hades, that in the earth and sea Poseidon. The other gods he combines with such inanimate things in the same way. And he believes the Sun and Moon and the other heavenly  bodies  to  be  gods,  and  the  Law  too.  And  he  also  a√rms  that humans change into gods. In book two [sc. of the same treatise] he, like Cleanthes, attempts to accommodate what is ascribed to Orpheus and Musaeus  and  what  is  in  Homer  and  Hesiod53 and  Euripides  and  the other  poets  to  their  [sc.  the  Stoics']  doctrines.  (Phld.  De  Piet.  cols. 
4.12-8.13)
Near the end of his overview Philodemus prefers to ignore the fact that the Stoic theology is pantheistic, the gods being parts, or rather manifestations, of the supreme ruling divinity who pervades the whole cosmos,54
though at the beginning of his report the pantheistic colouring is clearly visible. It is also well brought out by Diogenes Laertius:
The god [. . .] so to speak is the father of all things, both in general and as to  the  part  of  him  which  pervades  all  things,  which  is  called  by  many appellations according to its powers. [. . .] He is given the name Zeus insofar as he is the cause of life or is present in all that is alive, Athena because his regent part extends to the aether, Hera because (it extends) to the air, and Hephaestus because (it extends) to the technical fire, and Poseidon  because  (it  extends)  to  the  wet,  and  Demeter  because  (it extends) to the earth.55 In the same way the other appellations have been given with regard to a particular a√nity. (D.L. vii.147)
iii The gods, the world and men
The views of the Epicureans and the Stoics on the relation between the gods  and  the  world  and  men  are  radically  opposed  to  each  other. 
52 Against the Epicureans rather than popular religion. 
53 Zeno already allegorized Hesiod, e.g. Cic.  ND  i.36;  Schol. Hes. Theog. 30.6-8 Greg. (text at  SVF
i.10 0 not good). 
54 See above, pp. 448-51. 
55 Cf. Phld.  De Piet.  col. 8.28-33 Henrichs, citing the  On Athena  of Diogenes of Seleucia. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   g o d s ,   t h e   w o r l d   a n d   m e n 463
Nevertheless they share a common purpose in that they both strive to liberate us from fear. 
Epicurus wrote at least two theological treatises (lost):  On Gods  and  On Holiness (D.L. x.27, cf. Cic.  ND  i.115);56 he also spoke of the divine in other works. In the Epicurean system the gods play a dual role. They are important  in  the  context  of  ethics,  their  blessedness  and  immortality  in  fact being the paradigm of what may be attained by mortal men, whereas their role in the context of Epicurean natural philosophy is entirely di◊erent from that attributed to them by other philosophers. Epicurus' primary aim is to establish that the gods cannot, consistently with their blessed state, be in any way involved in what happens in nature, let alone in what happens  to  humans.  Hence  the  positioning  of  the  formulation  of  the nature of the gods, according to which blessedness is incompatible with having to worry about mundane matters, as the very first of the  KD,57 and the careful placement of theological statements at the beginning and end of  the  ethical   Letter  to  Menoeceus,  in  a  sort  of  ring-composition  (123-4, partly quoted above, and 143-5). What is said about the gods in the  Letter to Herodotus  occupies a less conspicuous position. Still, at  Ep. Hdt. 76-7
Epicurus  forcefully  argues  that  it  is  excluded  that  what  is  'blessed  and indestructible' can be the cause of celestial and meteorological phenomena. At  Ep. Hdt. 81, again, he emphatically rejects the belief that the heavenly bodies are 'blessed and indestructible', that is to say divine,58 and are capable of 'intentions', 'actions' and of being 'causes' of what happens in a world. This false view of the gods is singled out as one of the two main sources of anxiety among men. In the  Letter to Pythocles  the gods are present only insofar as they are consistently absent, that is to say are removed from the cosmos. The regularity of the orbits of the heavenly bodies is not to be explained by their divine nature: the gods are blessed and free from labour ( Ep. Pyth. 97, cf. 113 and 115). All celestial and meteorological phenomena can be explained by means of (pluralities of ) natural causes; there is nothing in nature that is intentional.59 Epicurus here extends the argument of Theophrastus'  Meteorology  concerning the de-divinization of the meteorological phenomena to those in the heavens.60 The argument in favour  of  the  divinity  of  the  heavenly  bodies  based  on  their  vast  size  is 56 The  former  is  cited  Phld.  De  piet.  189-90,  753-4,  1043-4,  and  1261-2,  the  latter   ib.  206-7, 362-4, and 1266-7 Obbink. See further below, pp. 472-4. 
57 Versions of  KD  1 have this prominent position in other accounts too (Lucr. i.44-9, Cic.  ND
i.45), and it is the first maxim to be quoted in the  Gnom. Vat. and at Diog. Oen. fr. 29.iii Smith. 
58 Philodemus' star-gods ( On Gods  iii,  PHerc. 152/157, cols.8-20), for which see Woodward 1989
with text at 33-6, are an innovation. 
59 See below, p. 499. 
60 Mansfeld 1992b, 324-7. See above, p. 453. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
464
t h e o l o g y
countered by Epicurus' statement that the sun is as big as it appears to be, or  a  bit  bigger  or  smaller  ( Ep.  Pyth.  91,  with  scholion).61 Similarly,  the observation at  Ep. Pyth. 89 and  Ep. Hdt. 74 (with scholion) that a heaven, or  cosmos,  need  not  be  spherical  but  may  equally  well  be  triangular  or egg-shaped  is  directed  against  the  argument  of  Plato  and  Aristotle  in favour of the divinity of the heaven based on its sphericity.62
Accordingly, Epicurus' theology is relevant to both physics and ethics, and  he  does  not  have  to  bother  about  justifying  the  ways  of  the  gods  to men. His gods cannot be held responsible for cosmological or moral evil. 
Providence is a myth (Plu.  Def. Or. 420b,  Non Posse  1101c). Epicurus' cosmos is godless ( atheos). Nevertheless he is not an atheist ( atheos) himself, although in antiquity he was occasionally accused of being one, or at least of being a crypto-atheist.63 In the Epicurean ethics  he-done-('enjoyment', 'happiness',  'satisfaction')  is  the  highest  good.  Concentrating  on  the  blessed state of the gods and on the causes for this blessedness, among which is the fact that they are not involved in what goes on in the cosmos, will help us in achieving  happiness  and  detachment  ourselves.  Because  we  need  not, indeed cannot reasonably, be afraid of the gods, one major obstacle on the road to happiness has been removed. But there is no short cut. The insight that this anxiety is obsolete is a corollary of one's familiarizing oneself with the  correct  explanations  of  the  phenomena  of  nature.  For  all  that,  the Epicurean is in a position to participate in traditional acts of worship provided  he  does  so  while  concentrating  on  the  correct  conception  of  the divinity.64 In the same state of mind he attends the religious ceremonies in honour  of  Epicurus,  the  members  of  his  family,  and  of  other  prominent early Epicureans.65 As a matter of fact, Epicurus was venerated by his followers as the great liberator (Lucr. i.66-79), and even, paradoxically but presumably  metaphorically,  as  a  god  (see  the  fragments  of  the   Letter  to Colotes  at Plu.  Col. 1117c-d, cf.  Ep. Men. 135; Lucr. v.8-12), though Lucretius (of course) states that he is dead (v.1042, vi.7), i.e. is not an immortal. 
The Stoic view of the relation between the gods and the cosmos and men is strongly opposed to the Epicurean. This is brought out very well by the rider Antipater66 shrewdly added to the Epicurean preconception of the divinity and by his similar appeal to the  enarges: 61 Barnes 1989a, 40-1. Cf. also Demetrius of Laconia  PHerc  1013, for which see Romeo 1979. 
62 Mansfeld 1994a, 39-40. 
63 E.g. Cic.  ND  i.85, Plu.  Non Posse  1102c-d; see Obbink 1989, 1996, 13-17. 
64 See Lucr. ii.655-60, D.L. x.120, and  POxy.  215, an early Epicurean text newly ed. with trans. 
and comm. by Obbink 1992; cf. further Obbink 1984, Festugière 1985, 77-9, Obbink 1996, 10-11. 
65 Clay 1986, Obbink 1996, 9-10, 389-458. 
66 Stoic definitions similar to Antipater's quoted at Orig.  Sel. in Ps.,  PG  12, 1055e-56a (not in  SVF). 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   g o d s ,   t h e   w o r l d   a n d   m e n 465
Antipater of Tarsus in his  On Gods  writes word for word as follows: 'To introduce the whole doctrine we shall briefly formulate the self-evident apprehension ( enargeia)67 which we have of God: our concept of God is that of a blessed and indestructible being which is beneficent towards men. [. . .] Indeed, all men hold them to be indestructible.' (Plu.  Stoic. 
 Rep.  1051e-f )
Though we have no verbatim quotation from Chrysippus, Plu.  Stoic. Rep. 
1051d-e testifies that he strongly opposed Epicurus, and others who abolish providence, by appealing to the common concept68 which necessarily includes the attribute of beneficence. Irrational fear of the gods is therefore groundless. What is more, poverty, disease, death and other unpleasant  conditions  or  events  are  not  really  evils  in  the  Stoic  view  but indi◊erents, and fear is one of the four cardinal a◊ections that have to be eliminated.69
In his chapter 'On fate and the excellent order of events' Stobaeus lists the tenets of a number of philosophers, including Zeno.70 The passage merits some confidence because a book-title is given:
Zeno the Stoic in his  On Nature (says Fate is) the force which moves matter in the same respect and in the same way;71 it makes no di◊erence to call this Providence ( pronoia) and Nature. (Stob.  Ecl. i.5.15) We do not have any proofs for the attribution of  pronoia  to the gods which are  ascribed  to  early  Stoics  by  name.  But  numerous  anonymous  Stoic arguments (including several in dialectical form) are to be found at Cic. 
 ND  ii.73-167 and in various places in Philo  Prov.72 As our starting point we may perhaps take the fact that Cleanthes and Chrysippus declare God to be in possession of all the virtues. Now  pronoia  according to the rather late evidence of [Andron.]  De Virt. 3.2 (confirmed at Cic.  De Inv. ii.160) is a sub-species  of  wisdom;  it  is  defined  as  a  'condition  which  is  capable  of bringing things about in a methodical way73 in respect of the future, so that actions will be performed the way they should'. This is a bit surprising as a definition of a human virtue. Zeno is claimed to have said that Nature,  an  'artistic  Fire',  brings  all  things  about  'in  a  methodical  way'
(Cic.  ND  ii.57). The definition of human  pronoia  will have been derived 67 Cf. Ep.  Ep. Men. 124, quoted above, p. 455. 
68 Literally 'the concepts we have'; cf. below, n. 102. He also annexed the Epicurean preconception, see Schofield 1980b, 293-8. 
69 See Mansfeld 1992b, 334-5, and see below, pp. 690-705. 
70 Text also at Aët. i.27.5. 
71 See Mansfeld 1979, 163-5. 
72 Comments: Dragona-Monachou 1976, 131-59. 
73 Text  in  Glibert-Thirry  1987,  but  ο/δοποιει4σθαι should  be  emended  to  ο/δ!4 ποιει4σθαι;  for parallels see Mansfeld 1983b, 60-3. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
466
t h e o l o g y
from  that  of  its  divine  counterpart;  it  was  observed  above  that  Zeno believed Fate, Nature and Providence to be identical. One may therefore credit the early Stoics too with the view that the attribution to the divinity  of  providence,  or  providential  care  and  foresight,  follows  from  the proofs concerning the existence of the gods and the full-blown rationality of the perfect and divine cosmos, as Cicero indeed argues at  ND  ii.76-9. 
Philo   Prov.  i.  2-4  has  preserved  an  interesting  dialectical  dialogue, which culminates in an argument from the part to the whole, that is, from foresight  in  humans  to  providence  in  the  cosmos.74 Arguments  from design and purpose are not only used to prove the existence of God, but also his demiurgic activity and loving care for the world and humans, in short his  pronoia (Cic.  ND  ii.87-162, in often boring detail; Philo  Prov. i.33
and 42-5, ii.62-8). Epicurean arguments against this view are found at Lucr. ii.167-83 and v.156-99. Though some of these may have originally been aimed by Epicurus against Plato (especially the  Tim.),75 the emphasis on the idea that the world was fashioned for the sake of men - a polemical exaggeration of a prominent Stoic doctrine76 - suggests that they were adapted to embrace other creationists who believed in providence. 
At v.199 Lucretius famously says that the world is 'blameworthy' ( tanta stat praedita culpa). The Epicureans do not need a theodicy, that is to say do not  have  to  find  a  way  of  reconciling  cosmological  and  moral  evil  with divine  providence  or  with  the  conviction  that  the  best  of  all  possible worlds has been created by a wise and virtuous god. But the Stoics, like Heraclitus77 and Plato before them, are obliged to justify the existence of evil, or even to explain it away. We may begin with what Cleanthes has to say on moral evil. His  Hymn  is too long to be quoted in full, but we may reproduce its most significant part. Addressing Zeus, who 'with his law steers all things', he writes (lines 3-15):
This whole cosmos, as it turns around the earth, obeys you wherever you direct it, and is willingly dominated by you. [. . .] For no event occurs on earth or in the aetherial heavens or in the sea, God, without your permission, except what bad men do in their own stupidity. But you know how to make properly fitting what is out of line and to order what is out of order. (Stob.  Ecl. i.1.12)
74 Cf. Philo  Prov. i.24-8, Cic.  ND  ii.79. 
75 Though Furley 1989a, 20 0-3 argues that lost works of Aristotle are the main target. 
76 Cf.  Cic.  ND  i.23  ( hominum  causa),  Acad.  ii.120,  Gell.  vii.1.1.  At   ND   ii.130-3  Cicero's  Stoic spokesman argues that the world has been made for the sake of men and gods, but what is useful for men comes first. See also  ND  ii.154-62. 
77 Cleanthes wrote an  Interpretations of Heraclitus  in four books (D.L. vii.174, cf. ix.15). One such exegesis survives at Ar. Did. fr. 39  ap. Eus.  PE  xv.2o.2, which however may be from the  On Zeno's Physics (D.L. vii.174). 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   g o d s ,   t h e   w o r l d   a n d   m e n 467
The first verses quoted summarize the Stoic doctrine of fate and providence. But even what is morally evil has its place in the order of things and so, in the ultimate reckoning, is part of the divine plan.78
Gell.  vii.1  provides  excerpts  from  Chrysippus'   De  Prov.  in  which  he argues against those who deny the existence of evil. Echoing Plato ( Tht. 
176a) he points out that good and evil are contraries and that neither can exist  without  the  other.79 Echoing  Heraclitus  (as   ap.  Clem.  Strom. 
iv.iii.10.1)  he  points  out  that  justice  is  only  known  because  of  the  existence of unjust acts, and goes on to point out that this holds for all the opposites:  truth  and  falsehood,  good  and  evil,  happiness  and  unhappiness, pleasure and pain,80 virtue and vice. Cosmological, or physical, evil (which is only bad in the popular sense of the word) may also be explained away. That people fall ill, or have skulls that are fragile,81 is not a primary ingredient  of  the  divine  plan  but  only  an  unavoidable  side-e◊ect  ( kata parakolouthe-sin) of the best possible arrangement of things. Even harmful and unpleasant animals have their uses; in his  On Nature  v (cited Plu.  Stoic. 
 Rep.  1044d),  for  instance,  he  points  out  that  bed-bugs  wake  us  up  and mice make us attentive in putting things carefully away. Faced with the hoary question why good and virtuous people su◊er he explains, in his  On Substance  iii (quoted Plu.  Stoic. Rep.  1051c), that some things may be overlooked, just as a certain amount of wheat may get lost in well-managed households. Alternatively, such unfortunate events and even natural disasters may serve the good of the whole (quotation from  On Gods  ii at Plu. 
 Stoic. Rep.  1050e).82
From a quite obvious and indeed common point of view the end of the ordered cosmos in which we live will be a major disaster. Some philosophers argued that the world will never end. According to Plato  Tim. 41ab the Demiurge, because good, will never unmake what he has made. In a lost work cited by Philo ( Aet. 10-11) Aristotle accused those who deny that the  world  is  ungenerated  and  indestructible  of  'horrible  atheism'. 
Another Peripatetic argument preserved by Philo  Aet. 39-43, which may also derive from Aristotle, states that a Divine Craftsman would have only two  reasons  for  destroying  his  handiwork,  namely  either  to  cease  from making  a  world  or  to  construct  another.  Both  motifs  are  incompatible with  his  perfect  nature.  We  only  need  to  look  at  the  second  of  these. 
78 Cf. Heracl. at  Schol. vet. Il. ∆ 4; Long 1975-6, 145-8, Inwood 1985, 76. For moral evil see below, pp. 690-7. 
79 Cf. the quotations from  On Justice  i at Plu.  Stoic. Rep.  1051a-b, from  On Nature  ii at Plu.  Stoic. 
 Rep.  1050e-f (cf.  Comm. Not. 1065a), and from an unidentified work at Plu.  Comm. Not. 1065d. 
80 Explicit reference to Plato  Phd. 60b at Gell. vii.1.6. 
81 Cf. already Plato  Tim. 75c. 
82 Cf.  On Gods  iii at  Stoic. Rep.  1049a-b. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
468
t h e o l o g y
Another world would either be worse or equal or better. To make a worse world  would  entail  that  God  had  changed83 for  the  worse,  to  make  an equal one is to labour in vain, and making a better one would entail that God  was  less  good  the  previous  time.  But  according  to  the  ineluctable laws of Stoic physics the world as we know it cannot but end in total conflagration  ( ekpuro-sis),  and  then  of  necessity  must  start  all  over  again.84
Eternal recurrence of the same, for according to Zeno Socrates will again be accused by Anytus and Meletus (Tat.  Adv. Graec. 5). The Stoics therefore had to counter the theological arguments of Plato and Aristotle. 
Chrysippus' position is relatively well known.85 The fact that part of our information derives (again) from the  De Prov.  is no accident, because at first glance  ekpuro-sis  seems incompatible with divine  pronoia. It has to be justified, just as the end of the world is justified in Christian theology. 
Chrysippus makes his escape by using the word  kosmos  both for the organized world of experience and for the condition of things during total conflagration.86 Accordingly  the   kosmos  is  eternal.  In   De  Prov.  i  he argued  that  'the  cosmos  does  not  die'  (quoted  Plu.  Stoic.  Rep.  1052c), a√rmed that during  ekpuro-sis  Zeus withdraws into  pronoia  whereupon both together are thoroughly mingled with the aether (paraphrased Plu. 
 Comm. Not.  1077e), and stated that 'when the cosmos is wholly fiery it is ipso facto  its own soul and regent part' (quoted Plu.  Stoic. Rep.  1053b). It would appear that at this stage  pronoia  is the most prominent divine virtue, for it is the only one to be mentioned (but it should be recalled that according to Stoic theory the presence of one virtue entails that of all the others). At the very least, this homogeneous cosmic state is not inferior to that of the di◊erentiated world we know,87 and our sources describe the  transformation  which  brings  it  about  in  positive  terms  (e.g.  Plu. 
 Comm. Not.  1075d, on Cleanthes). Chrysippus admitted that, with the exception of Zeus, the gods, e.g. the sun and the moon, are subject to generation and destruction (quotation from  On Gods  iii at Plu.  Stoic. Rep. 
1052a).88 Opponents saw this as contradicting the common concept of what  constitutes  a  god,  but  Chrysippus  held  that  eternal  recurrence neutralizes this objection. Antipater's formula quoted above may seem to  deviate  from  Chrysippus'  view,89 but  Plutarch,  who  gleefully  con-83 Cf. Arist.  ap. Simp.  Cael. 289.4-14. 
84 Mansfeld 1979, 144-56, Long 1985, 14-21, see above, pp. 436-41. 
85 Mansfeld 1979, 174-83, Long 1985, 22-5. 
86  Ap. Plu.  Stoic. Rep.  1053b; Philo  Aet. 9 cites this as the standard Stoic view. 
87 At Mansfeld 1979, 177-8 I have argued that it is superior; rejected by Long 1985, 25. 
88 Cf. Plu.  Comm. Not. 1075a-e, which includes a reference to Cleanthes. 
89 Argued by Long 1990, 286-7. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
k n o w l e d g e   o f   g o d
469
structs this disagreement, is notoriously selective in his reportage and may well have omitted qualifications which failed to suit his polemical purpose. 
Paradoxically,  pronoia  is most prominently present when it is no longer, and not yet, engaged in the construction and administration of our world. 
These are indeed the 'mysteries of philosophy'.90 What Chrysippus could have said, and indeed may have said, is that you cannot have construction without de-construction, and conversely, and hence that both are equally part of the providential arrangement of things. One understands why  pro-
 noia  is said to remain during total conflagration, for if it were to disappear there would be no eternally recurring replicas of the organized cosmos, and on purely physical grounds the condition of total conflagration cannot last forever. 
Chrysippus attached such value to theology that he declared it to be the crowning part of physics and stipulated that it is the last part of philosophy to be taught. In his  On Lives  iv, quoted Plu.  Stoic. Rep.  1035a-b, he calls  theological  instruction  an  'initiation'  ( telete-).  This  is  confirmed  at Etym.  Magn.  under   telete-,  and  something  similar  is  already  attested  for Cleanthes,  who  allegedly  said  that  the  gods  are  'mystical  shapes'  (thus Epiph.  Adv. Haer. iii.2.9).91
iv Knowledge of God
Religion was a fact of life, as it still is. Alternative views as to what the gods, or God, are and what they do or do not do had been proposed by philosophers,  most  prominently  by  Xenophanes.92 In  the  days  of  the great Sophists, as we have seen, doubts about the legitimacy of the traditional  belief  that  the  gods  exist  had  been  formulated.  In  some  cases explanations  of  the  origin  of  religion  were  provided:  the  gods  as  the deification of useful things in life such as bread, water and wine,93 or as invented by politicians who sought to impose law and order and fooled people into believing in a watching deity.94 Democritus argued that traditional religion arose out of fear and wonder; thunder, lightning, thunderbolts, comets and the eclipses of sun and moon (which had always been interpreted as signs of divine anger) frightened men into believing 90 See immediately below. 
91 Mansfeld 1979, 134-6. 
92 Fragments quoted Clem.  Strom. v.14.109, S.E.  M  ix.144 and 193, Simp.  Phys. 23.11-12 and 20. 
93 Prodicus at Cic.  ND  i.118; Phld.  De Piet.,  PHerc. 1428, fr. 19; S.E.  M  ix.18; cf. Henrichs 1975, 107-15. For Persaeus and Cleanthes see below, n. 104 and text thereto. 
94 Critias at S.E.  M  ix.54; see Döring 1978. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
470
t h e o l o g y
that  these  phenomena  were  caused  by  gods  ( ap.  S.E.  M   ix.24).95 Such religious  beliefs  indeed  were  very  powerful,  and  continued  to  be  so. 
Democritus did not deny that the gods exist but derived the origin of our awareness of them in a more scientific way from the perception96 of images  which  are  big  and  strong  but  (as  he  said)  in  the  end  not  indestructible; these foretell the future and speak (S.E.  M  ix.19).97 Aristotle in a lost work provided, or cited, two explanations (S.E.  M  ix.20-2). On the one hand, he adduced the inspired psychic states which occur during dreams and the prophecies pronounced by the dying, when the soul is being  separated  from  the  body.  Arguing  by  analogy  and,  as  it  would seem,  applying  the  argument  from  the  degrees  of  perfection  without being  aware  they  did,  men  conceived  the  existence  of  a  divine  being, similar  to  the  soul  and  of  all  the  most  capable  of  knowledge.  He  also appealed to the argument from design first formulated by Xenophon,98
adding  that  men  concluded  from  the  regularity  of  the  motions  of  the heavenly bodies99 that these must have been caused by a god. At  Metaph. 
Λ.8.1074a38-b14  he  combines  two  earlier  views  and  argues  that  the mythological  accretions  to  the  insight  that  the  heavenly  bodies  are divine were added in the past by persons who wished to impose law and order. 
We need only concern ourselves with explanations that do not appeal to pragmatic motives. The first thing that needs pointing out is that an explanation  of  the  origin  of  a  notion  is  by  no  means  the  same  thing  as acquiescence in its validity. A correct notion may still have to be established.100 To account for the historical origin of religious beliefs Epicurus too appealed to what occurs during sleep (S.E.  M  ix.25, cf. Phld.  De piet. 
225-31 Obbink), though  Gnom. Vat. 24 states that dreams 'have no divine nature  nor  any  divinatory  force'.  He  even  adduced  the  human  fears  of meteorological  and  celestial  phenomena  and  the  false  belief  that  the heavenly bodies are divine.101 These explanations are also set out at Lucr. 
v.1161-93. 
As  to  the  Stoics,  Cic.  ND  ii.13-15  lists  no  less  than  four  grounds  for 95 The  seasons  too  were  sent  from  above  (Democr.  ap.  Phld.  De  Piet.,  PHerc.  1428,  fr.  16;  see Henrichs 1975, 96-106). The Democr. fr. quoted at Clem.  Protr. 68.5 seems to a√rm that clever people had capitalized on these impressions. 
96 In dreams, as it would appear; cf. Diog. Oen. fr. 9.vi.3-13 Smith (text heavily restored). 
97 At fr. 10 iv.10-v.6 Smith, Diogenes argues against Democritus that images cannot speak etc. 
Long  and  Sedley  1987,  vol.  i,  145  a√rm  this  means  that  Democritus  was  wrong  because  he attributed vital powers to the images which  are  his gods. But the further point seems to be that he was mistaken in stating that though alive the gods are nothing but images. 
98 Above, p. 454. 
99 Anticipated at Plato  Crat. 397c-d. 
100 For the Stoics see Schofield 1980b, 298-30 0. 
101 Above, p. 463. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
k n o w l e d g e   o f   g o d
471
the 'formation  in  men's  minds  of  notions  of  the  gods'  provided  by Cleanthes.102 The  first  resembles  Democritus'  view  and  Aristotle's report, and appeals to foreknowledge of future events.103 The second, a revision of a Sophistic argument, points at the benefits derived from our excellent climate, the fertility of the earth and the abundance of other useful things.104 The third, echoing another suggestion of Democritus (and Epicurus), points at the fears inspired by thunderbolts and other meteorological phenomena and by earthquakes and so on. The fourth and 'most important',  building  on  arguments  of  Democritus,  Xenophon  and Aristotle, appeals to the regular motion of the heavens and the distinction, utility, beauty and order of the sun, the moon and the other heavenly bodies. As in Aristotle, this is capped by an argument from analogy. Just as somebody,  upon  entering  a  house  or  gymnasium  and  observing  that things  are  organized  in  an  orderly  way,  will  have  to  infer  that  there  is someone in control, so, observing the perfect order which obtains in the vast cosmos, one cannot but infer that its grand natural motions and processes are governed by a Mind. 
Cleanthes' explanations do not all operate on the same level. His fourth and  most  important  may  also  serve  as  a  proof  of  the  existence  of  the divine, and shows that proofs regarding existence and speculations concerning the origin of the notion may overlap. The first and second need working  over  if  they  are  to  result  in  an  appropriate  concept. 
Foreknowledge has to be linked to fate, and the abundance of beneficent things must be incorporated in a teleological world-picture. According to a Stoic view cited at Aët. iv.11, in some cases the notions that arise naturally have to be developed by further instruction and attention.105
Cleanthes' third explanation, from fear, describes one among the several spontaneous sources of the notion of the gods, but this does not entail that he believed it to be capable of leading to a correct concept of what the gods really are and do. Quite the reverse. Knowledge of God and the gods according  to  the  Stoics  is  provided  by  such  proofs  and  arguments  concerning their existence, identity, attributes and  pronoia  as have been studied in the previous section. As their point of departure these proofs must avail themselves of natural notions that already hint at the true state of 102 Cf.  the  appeal  to  common  notions  at   ND  ii.5  and  12  (see  also  iii.8),  Plu.  Stoic.  Rep.  1051e (Antipater);  see  further  Boyancé  1962,  46-8,  Schian  1973,  142-3,  Schofield  1980b,  301-2. 
Extended version of such an inventory at Aët. (pseudo-Plutarch) i.6.10. 
103 Zeno said that divination is a   techne- (D.L. vii.149); Cleanthes and Chrysippus expanded the subject (Cic.  De Div. i.6). 
104 Cf.  Cic.  ND  i.38  on  Persaeus,  and  Phld.  De  Piet.,  PHerc.  1428,  cols.  2.28-3.8  Henrichs  on Persaeus' endorsement of Prodicus. 
105 Cf. D.L. vii.52. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
472
t h e o l o g y
a◊airs.  Fear  has  to  be  abolished  and  to  be  replaced  by  admiration  and acceptance.  We  have  seen  above  that  Antipater,  who  presumably  was anticipated by Chrysippus, began his account of theology with the preconception. We may safely believe that he went on to add the required proofs and qualifications. 
According to Epicurus, on the other hand, we may be certain that the gods exist because our preconception of them as blessed and indestructible living beings already provides knowledge that is clear and therefore certain.106 This preconception has to be distinguished from the muddled notions men derive from what happens when they are asleep, or construct e.g.  in  regard  to  cosmic  phenomena.  These  wrong  and  even  disastrous notions come into being because, or when, men are incapable of sticking to the preconception and add further attributes which are incompatible with it. It is the task of the philosopher to point the way back to the correct preconception. 
If, however, one wishes to find out what causes this pure, or purifiable, preconception  the  evidence,  unfortunately,  is  of  a  derivative  kind;  we have  to  make  do  with  testimonies  such  as  the  di√cult  abstracts  from Epicurus in Philodemus'  De Pietate,107 the cryptic abstract from 'another passage' of Epicurus in the scholion to  KD  1, the ba◊ling report of Cic.  ND
i.49-50  (text  in  crucial  places  uncertain),  passages  in  Lucretius,  e.g. 
vi.76 -7 (cf. also Aët. i.7.34), and the heavily restored theological works of Philodemus, who like Cicero may reflect later developments and present an   Epicurus  interpretatus.  Lucr.  vi.76-7  speaks  of  'images  ( simulacra) reporting the divine shape which are transferred from the holy body to the minds of men'. Images are also mentioned in the Ciceronian passage ( imagines) and in the scholion ( eido-la). Cic.  ND  i.49 tells us that 'the gods are discerned not by the senses but by the mind',108 and that 'our mind, by  focusing  and  concentrating  with  the  keenest  feelings  of  pleasure  on these images, is capable of understanding a nature which is both blessed and eternal'. 
But according to Cicero's text as transmitted109 the 'infinite shape of 106 See above, pp. 455-6. 
107 Above, n. 56; for Philodemus' references to other early Epicurean writings see Obbink 1996, 662. 
108 The  mind  functions  as  a  sense-organ.  I  refrain  from  discussing  at  appropriate  length  the di√cult  formula   similitudine  et  transitione  perceptis ('perceived  by  similitude  and  transition') which is about how the divine images are discerned. The images are 'perceived' ( perceptis), i.e. 
we are aware of them in a way that is analogous to our immediate awareness of the data of sense-perception. 
109 At  ND  i.49  species ('shape') and  ad deos ('towards the gods') are di√cult;  series ('series') and  ad nos ('towards  us')  have  been  conjectured.  Scholars  as  a  rule  accept  either  or  both  of  these emendations, though  species  is protected by the sloppy repetition at  ND  i.105. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
k n o w l e d g e   o f   g o d
473
most  similar  images  arises  from  the  innumerable  atoms  and  streams towards the gods', not 'towards us', as some prefer to write. This admits of two interpretations.110 The first and traditional one is that an uninterrupted supply of images flows to the gods out there and so ensures their indestructibility.111 Perhaps we then have to assume that our mind, by a further e◊ort, does not only focus on the images that enter it (the fact that the  gods   are  perceived  by  it  has  been  mentioned  previously)  but  also thinks of the images out there, that is to say contemplates the conditions which  guarantee  the  gods'  blessedness  and  immortality  and  so  confirm our preconception.112 But it is hard to understand how the images out there are formed in the first place, or what the very word 'images' represents. The second, proposed by an influential nineteenth-century German historian  of  materialist  thought  (one  of  the  heroes  of  young Nietzsche),113 is that there are no gods out there and that subtle human images which are continuously coming towards us in fact stream 'towards the gods', that is to say produce these in our minds. This view makes the gods imaginary living beings, ideals, 'thought-constructs' formed by the transformation  of  the  concept  of  a  happy  and  long-lived  human  being into that of an immortal and blessed creature.114 To know the gods is to create them, and conversely. The crabbed scholion to  KD  1 can be interpreted accordingly, and may then be translated as follows:115
Elsewhere he says that the gods are seen by reason, some (οι/ µε!ν) numerically distinct, others (οι/ δε!) with formal unity, resulting from the continuous influx of similar images to the same place, (and) human in form. 
(D.L. x.139)
110 Bibliography of the dispute at Woodward 1989, 29-30 n. 2. 
111 E.g. Lemke 1973, 22-41, 77-98. 
112 Mansfeld 1993, 190-201. 
113 Lange 1974 (repr.), 79-80, dismissed by Zeller 1909, 451 n. 2 as flying in the face of all our ancient sources. 
114 The best argument in favour is that of Long and Sedley 1987, vol. i, 144-9; cf. also Obbink 1989, 201. I argue contra at Mansfeld 1993. To be sure, S.E.  M. ix.43-7 attributes this explanation to the Epicureans themselves - esp. 45, 'the notion that the god is eternal and indestructible and perfectly happy was formed by way of transference ( metabasis) from men' - but this is said to be their reply to an objection, so may be a mere dialectical ploy.  Metabasis  in this sense derives from the Stoic theory of concept-formation (D.L. vii.53); it is a favourite term of Sextus. 
115 Quoted from Long and Sedley 1987, vol. i, 143, interpretation ibid. 148; I have replaced their
'in other works' by 'elsewhere' because ε0ν α3λλοι does not necessarily refer to more than one work or even a single passage (scholia jargon, but see already Arist.  Metaph. 10 09b19,  De An. 
427a24,  Polit. 1338a27, also e.g. [Plu.]  Cons. 104b, 104c, 116f, 118a, and Stob. i.156.15, probably from Ar. Did., where what follows pertains to  Phys. bk. 4 and the first definition, not entirely literal, ⫽ 212a20). Thinking of what we have in the other Epicurean scholia in Diogenes I do not believe  this  phrase  is  a  verbatim  quote;  it  is  a  compressed  abstract,  at  best  only  echoing Epicurus' words. One may also translate '. . . in one way (οι/ µε!ν) as existing individually, in another (οι/ δε!) as (existing) with formal unity' etc. Cf. Mansfeld 1993, 203-6, with references to earlier literature; to the examples cited there for  µε'ν and δε! in this sense add Arist.  Phys. 
iv.13.2219a18-19. Obbink 1996, 303 argues that the scholium is confused. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
474
t h e o l o g y
On this view, the 'same place' would have to be the human mind, not the gods themselves. The numerically distinct gods are deified persons, the others mere corporeal concepts. The main di√culty of this exegesis is that a  thought- construct  which   integrates  blessedness  and  indestructibility  is di◊erent from the preconception advocated by Epicurus which includes these attributes from the start. Cicero's text states that  the gods  are perceived, not (modified) human images. Epicurus moreover a√rms that the gods are 'living beings' ( zo-ia), and appears to have argued that they are somewhere outside the cosmos;116 our corporeal concepts, of course, are here. According to the text of Philodemus as restored, he described the gods  as  'unified  entities'  ( henote-tes),  consisting  of  ingredients  that  are
'identical' as well as of ingredients that are 'similar'.117 Obbink argues at length that these passages prove the gods to be concepts, but the physical processes  of  continuous  concept-formation  as  described  by  him118 are equally valid for the continuous formation of gods out there, provided the hypothesized idealization performed by the mind be discounted. In the present context, however, I prefer not to argue in favour of either interpretation. 
*
The problem already formulated by ancient critics, viz. that a being composed of atoms should  ipso facto  be destructible (e.g. Cicero's Academic at ND  i.68),119 retains its virulence on both interpretations. The solution proposed  by  Philodemus  in  his  theological  treatises,  namely  that  the nature of the gods is capable of warding o◊ destruction,120 is a form of special pleading. It reminds one of Molière's doctor-to-be, who attributes the somniferous e◊ects of opium to its 'sleep-inducing virtue which lulls the senses'. The argument from  isonomia ('equal distribution') attributed to Epicurus at Cic.  ND  i.50, according to which the causes of conservation (in this case the infinite streams of images towards the gods out there) are not  less  infinite  than  those  of  destruction,  also  seems  to  have  been invented  pour le besoin de la cause.121 But it is at any rate clear that in later Epicureanism the mode of existence of the gods is inextricably bound up 116 Above, n. 24. 
117  De Piet. 205-19, 320-37 347-64 Obbink. 
118 Obbink 1996, 4-12, 296-7, 321-32, and elsewhere. 
119 Arguments contra cited from Metrodorus at Phld.  De Piet. 63-70, 189-201 Obbink. 
120 Similar views attributed to Epicurus at Phld.  De Piet. 10 0-4, 181-9 Obbink. Lucr. iii.819-23
argues that the human soul lacks such a special power. 
121 At  ND  i.109 it is considered to be fundamental to the Epicurean theory though easy to refute. It is accepted by Kleve 1979 but rejected by Long and Sedley 1987, vol. ii, 149, who argue that its use is inconsistent with the apparently exhaustive list of the conditions for indestructibility at Lucr. iii.806-23. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
a c a d e m i c   v i e w s   a n d   c r i t i c i s m s 475
with  the  ways  in  which  our  knowledge  of  and  ideas  about  them  are thought to be achieved. 
v Academic views and criticisms
Cicero   ND  iii.29-52  and  Sextus   M  ix.138-90  have  preserved  a  series  of Academic theological arguments. Both mention Carneades' name122 and ascribe arguments to him. We may safely attribute to the great Carneades the points these two sources have in common, or which in either of these are explicitly said to be his. We should however take into account that the arguments  concerning  the  divine  attributes  were  probably  abridged  by Cicero and expanded by Sextus, or rather in the tradition he depends on, and  that  Cicero  seems  to  provide  a  blow-up  of  the  sorites  arguments. 
Cicero presents the sceptical counter-proofs as aimed against the Stoics (cf.  ND  i.4,  ii.162,  where  the  Stoics  are  said  to  be  Carneades'  favourite opponents), Sextus as aimed against the Dogmatists in general. 
Carneades refutes conclusions, not premisses. One of his lines of attack is to undermine the tenet, held and argued by Stoics as well as Epicureans, that the gods are living beings (Cic.  ND  ii.29-34, S.E.  M  ix.138-43). To this purpose he deploys a whole array of counter-proofs which can be only partly summarized here. God is corporeal according to both Epicureans and Stoics, but nothing that is corporeal can be immortal. Focusing upon the Stoic doctrine (Cic.  ND  iii.29-31 and 34), Carneades argues that the divine body must consist either of one element (water, air, fire, earth) or a combination of these. But these elements are divisible and perishable. It has been argued that the point about the destructibility of God does not hold water against the early Stoics, who claim that the gods disappear into fire when the world comes to an end.123 But Carneades' argument is still pertinent  to  Chrysippus'  undying  divine  cosmos  which  consists  of  fire only.124 Furthermore, to be a living being is to be sentient (as the Stoics had forcefully argued), but to be sentient entails to be pleased by some things  and  displeased  by  others.125 To  be  displeased  entails  being changed for the worse or even to su◊er and so, ultimately, to be perishable (Cic.  ND  iii.32-4, S.E.  M  ix.139-47).126 But this is at odds with the notion of God.127 A third argument is aimed against the Stoic proofs that the god 122 Cic.  ND  iii.29, 44; S.E.  M  ix.140, 181, 190. On the di◊erences of treatment in Cicero and Sextus see Couissin 1941; overview of the arguments in Hankinson 1995, 242-4. 
123 Long 1990, 283-7, who suggests that Carneades' contemporary Antipater is the butt of the attack. 
124 Above, p. 468. 
125 Cf. Arist.  De An. 2.413b21-4. 
126 See Long 1990, 283. 
127 As Plato and Aristotle had already argued, see above, p. 452, p. 467. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
476
t h e o l o g y
is rational and has all the virtues (Cic.  ND  iii.38-9; S.E.  M  ix.152-77, at far greater  length).  Carneades  cleverly  exploits  the  Stoic  definitions  of  the virtues.  Practical  wisdom  ( prudentia,  phrone-sis),  for  instance,  is  'knowledge of things good, evil and indi◊erent' (Cic.  ND  iii.38, S.E.  M  ix.162). 
But  why  should  God  have  to  choose  between  good  and  evil  (Cicero)? 
What is more, knowledge of indi◊erents entails knowledge of su◊ering, but to know this one must have experienced it, and to su◊er is to change and in the end to be perishable (S.E.  M  ix.163-4). If the Dogmatist (in fact, the  Epicurean)  answer  is  that  God  only  knows  happiness  ( he-done-),  the Academic reply is that (Epicurean) happiness is absence of su◊ering and so presupposes it (S.E.  M  ix.165-6). Similar arguments are developed in respect of the other virtues. 
God cannot be proved to be rational either, for reason is used to argue from  the  known  to  the  obscure,  but  nothing  can  be  hidden  from  God (Cic.  ND  iii.38, cf. S.E.  M  ix.169 and 171). Carneades presumably made short  shrift  of  the  Epicurean  preconception;  the  Academic  at  Cic.  ND
i.62-3, however, attacks his Epicurean opponent's appeal to the common conception  of  mankind  by  pointing  out  that  we  do  not  know  all  the nations, and by recalling the famous atheists of the past. An interesting argument found at Cic.  ND  iii.20-1, not attributed to Carneades but perhaps  deriving  from  an  anonymous  Dialectician  from  whom  the Academics borrowed it (it comes just before, and resembles, those from the part to the whole at iii.23 which derive from Alexinus)128 reduces the Stoic arguments from the degrees of perfection to absurdity. What precisely is the meaning of 'better' in 'nothing better than'? 'More beautiful'
or  'more  useful'  may  be  acceptable  equivalents,  but  'rational'  is  not. 
Nothing is superior to Rome, but this does not make the city rational or sentient. Furthermore, on the Stoic line of reasoning an ant, because sentient, should be rated 'better' than a city. 
Sextus  tells  us  that  the  sorites,  or  step-by-step,  arguments129 were recorded  by  Carneades'  pupil  Clitomachus  ( M  ix.182;  at  ix.190  he  says that  he  has  cited  only  a  few).  These  were  aimed  against  the  Stoic  arguments in favour of pantheism, that is to say their revisionary interpretation  of  traditional  religion  (Cic.  ND  iii.44),130 and  perhaps,  by implication, against the argument from design. A typical example runs as follows:
128 Cf. above, n. 37. 
129 For this type of paradox see above, pp. 170-6. 
130 See the quotations from Philodemus and Diogenes Laertius above, pp. 461-2, and Burnyeat 1982b, 326-33. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
a c a d e m i c   v i e w s   a n d   c r i t i c i s m s 477
If Zeus is a god his brother, [the sea-God] Poseidon too will be a god, and if Poseidon is a god, the [great river] Achelous too will be a god. If the Achelous, then also the Nile, and if the Nile, then every river, and if every river,  then  streams  as  well  will  be  gods,  and  if  streams,  then  torrents. 
<But torrents are not gods>,131 and streams are not, so Zeus is not a god either. (S.E.  M  ix.182-3)
Beginning with Zeus and continuing step after step, one arrives at something which is no longer held to be divine. Retracing one's steps, one is forced to admit that the starting-point is not divine either. 
We  may end by pointing out that  Carneades' purpose, as that of the Academics  and  sceptics  in  general,  is  only  to  show  that  the  dogmatist arguments  in favour of the existence, attributes and so on of the gods are not valid. We cannot have  knowledge  of the gods. In fact, the Academics (just as, subsequently, the Neopyrrhonists)132 see no harm in following the custom of the land and acting in accordance with traditional religious beliefs. Philosophical theology is what they reject. The early Pyrrhonist Timon  was  not  afraid  of  applying  religious  terminology  to  the  master himself.  Pyrrho  is  apostrophized  by  him  as  someone  who  lives  'always without worrying ( aphrontistôs) and immutably in the same way'.133 This language fits a divine being; one understands why Epicurus is said to have been  curious  about  Pyrrho,134 for  Epicurus'  exemplary  gods  and  wise men also live without worries. Immutability, as we have seen, is a traditional attribute in philosophical theology, but it acquires a di◊erent sense when applied to a mortal man. Timon continues by stating 'you alone lead the way for men in the manner of the god who revolves around the earth
. . .' (viz., the sun). In another fragment (S.E.  M  xi.20), Pyrrho is introduced as holding that it 'appears to' him that the 'nature of the divine and the good consists in what makes human life as equable as possible'. This is di√cult because hard to square with rigorous scepticism, and its meaning is disputed.135 Perhaps one may say that, though Pyrrho (or Timon) will refuse to commit himself as to the real nature of the divine and the good and therefore only says what appears to him, what appears to him is a way of life which is an expression of the divine and the good. These words, then,  are  being  used  in  their  everyday  sense,  just  as  the  god  revolving around  the  earth  is  that  of  popular  religion.  The  Academics  and 131 A few words seem to be missing. 
132 E.g. Cic.  ND  i.61, iii.5, and  Div. ii.148; S.E.  M  ix.4. 
133 Pyrrho T 61a (l.3) Decl. as reconstructed from D.L.ix.64 and S.E.  M  i.305 and xi.1. 
134 D.L. ix.64; yet according to D.L. x.8 he called him names. 
135 See Decleva Caizzi 1981a, 255-62, and Bett 1994a, who implausibly argues that the speaker is Timon who expresses views that are mistaken. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
478
t h e o l o g y
Pyrrhonists are religious conservatives, while the Stoics transformed the traditional  religion  and  proposed  interesting  improvements.  The Epicureans,  as  we  have  seen,  rejected  most  parts  of  traditional  religion and  proposed  a  revised  version  of  what  remained,  though  they  recommended participation in traditional acts of worship. The average citizen would  have  found  it  hard  to  distinguish  between  Epicurean,  Stoic  and Academic or Pyrrhonist participants in the religious rites. The di◊erences were in their heads. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
14
Explanation and causation
r .   j .   h a n k i n s o n
i Background
Our principal topic will be the views of the Stoics and Epicureans, and the various sceptical attempts to undermine their pretensions to explanatory understanding. Much of this is the history of polemic and dispute; but we may at the outset identify certain points of contact shared by all or most of the adversaries. 
Most  importantly,  the  Hellenistic  causal  theorists  were  materialists. 
And whatever materialism may be taken to amount to, most of them agree that causing is essentially corporeal: causal power is transmitted by bodily contact. Sextus notes that 'some [sc. of the Dogmatists] say that body is what can act and be acted upon' (S.E.  PH  iii.38; cf.  M  ix.366), thus defining corporeality in terms of causal e√cacy. Congruently, the Hellenistic period sees the emergence of the notion that, properly so called, a cause is something  active.1 Plato  had  defined   aition ('cause')  quite  generally  as
'that because of which (δι' ο1) something comes to be' ( Crat. 413a); and Aristotle's four 'causes' ( aitia:  Phys. ii.3) include the material from which something is made, its structure, and its purpose, as well as whatever it is which made it. By contrast, for Seneca a cause is  id quod facit, 'that which actually does or produces something' ( Ep. 65.4); he objects to the 'crowd of causes' associated with the Platonists and the Peripatetics; design, purpose, and goal drop out of the causal vocabulary. Not that they disappear altogether; but for something to be a cause, an  aition, now implies more than  merely  that  it  is  an  irreducible  feature  of  a  complete  account  or explanation of something, as it was for Aristotle. This fact is emphasized by the proliferation of terms in our period for causal e√ciency.2 Although Sextus  remarks  that  'some  say  that  cause  is  corporeal,  others  that  it  is incorporeal' (S.E.  PH  iii.14), he is presumably in the second case referring 1 See Frede 1980, 217-21, for a discussion of this development. 
2 Cf. Barnes 1983a, 191 n. 20: and Barnes' list is not exhaustive. 
[479]
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
480
e x p l a n a t i o n   a n d   c a u s a t i o n
to Plato and the Pythagoreans (cf.  M  ix.364); and he continues: 'in general it  would  appear  that  in  their  [i.e.  the  Dogmatists']  view  a  cause  is  that because  of  whose  action  (δι' ο1 ε0νεργου4ν)  an  e◊ect  comes  about'.  The addition of the word for action, ε0νεργου4ν, to Plato's more inclusive definition is what makes all the di◊erence here. 
Given this Hellenistic emphasis on the active nature of  aitia, I shall generally render  aition  and  aitia  as 'cause', although in some cases 'explanation'  and  'reason'  are  preferable.  Both   aition  and   aitia  derive  ultimately from the adjective  aitios, 'responsible'. The concept of responsibility was for the Greeks as broad as its modern English counterpart, a fact which in itself accounts for Aristotle's inclusion of a range of distinct explanatory factors under the term's spreading umbrella. The Stoic restriction of the extension of the term, then, amounts to limiting its range to that of causal responsibility. 
Nor are  aition  and  aitia  systematically distinguished. Stobaeus (reporting the views of Arius Didymus)3 indeed says that Chrysippus used the former to refer to the object doing the causing, while the latter was reserved for  an  account  of  the   aition,  and  that  suggests  that   aitia  more  properly refers to explanations rather than causes, where an explanation is propositional in form. But this Chrysippean distinction is not universally or even generally  observed.4 Even  so,  it  is  important  to  distinguish  cause  from explanation; while even in Aristotle's catholic usage,  aition  rarely means
'explanation'  as  such  (a  much  better,  if  clumsier,  translation  would  be
'explanatory factor'). Causes, at least in this narrow sense, are properly to be considered extensionally: if we simply want to advert to whatever it is that is as a matter of fact responsible for something, it doesn't matter how we do so. But if we wish to draw attention to what it is in virtue of which it has the e◊ect that it has (and hence, at least provisionally, to explain that e◊ect), we need to pick it out in a particular way. In Aristotle's terminology,  Polycleitus  may  be  the  'incidental'  cause  of  the  sculpture,  since Polycleitus is the name of its sculptor: but the proper  aition  is 'a sculptor', or 'the art of sculpture', since it is reference to that which explains the outcome.5 Causal contexts are referentially transparent; explanatory ones are opaque. The Hellenistic theorists were concerned with both explanation and cause: but one side e◊ect of the concentration on active production (as well as the belief that causes are corporeal) is a tendency to stress the extensional, causal talk at the expense of its intensional, explanatory cousin. 
3 Quoted below, section iii. 
4 The two terms are later said to be synonymous: [Gal.]  Syn. Puls  viii.458. 
5 See section vii below. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
s t o i c   m a t e r i a l i s m
481
There is also widespread agreement in our period concerning the universality of causation. Galen even goes so far as to treat propositions like
'nothing occurs without a cause' and 'nothing comes to be from nothing'
as metaphysical axioms whose certainty is a priori.6 None the less, there is a crucial exception to this. It is important to distinguish
(T1) every event has a cause, 
from
(T2) every event has an e◊ect. 
(T1) and (T2) are obviously logically distinct; and their conjunction may be taken to express the Law of Universal Causation. They are, however, compatible with general indeterminacy. Only if they are strengthened to (T1*) every event has a specific cause
and
(T2*) every event has a specific e◊ect
do  we  approach  determinism.7 The  Stoics  did  indeed  adopt  (T1*)  and (T2*). The Epicureans, on the other hand, rejected even (T1); and their reasons for so doing are central to this and to the following chapter. 
ii Stoic materialism
The basic structure of the Stoics' physical picture of the world is dealt with more extensively elsewhere.8 Their fundamental physical (as opposed to metaphysical) distinction is that between the Active and the Passive principles. Sextus again takes this to be a point of widespread agreement: 'it is agreed  by  most  that  of  principles  ( archai)  some  are  material  and  some e√cient' (S.E.  PH  iii.1); thus he remarks the similarity between Aristotle's view and that adopted by the Stoics. However, such an apparent concinnity disguises a fundamental démarche taken in Stoic theory. The active and  the  passive  are,  for  them,  both  material,  the  active  principle  being assimilated to the lighter, more dynamic elements of air and fire, while the grosser water and earth form the passive substrate. In particular it is the 6 Gal.  MM  x.36-7;  see  Hankinson  1991,  19-20  and  notes  ad  loc.  Strictly  speaking,  of  course, Galen lies outside the ambit of this  History; but he is an invaluable source for the Hellenistic debates, as well as an acute critic and analyst of them. 
7 By 'specific cause' here I mean to rule out the possibility, left open by (T1), that two events entirely similar in type might yet be brought about by distinct causes, and similarly for e◊ects, and (T2). 
8 See above, pp. 382-411, 432-51. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
482
e x p l a n a t i o n   a n d   c a u s a t i o n
highly volatile compound of air and fire (its precise structure is unclear) known as  pneuma  which is responsible not merely for the intelligence of the universe but also for its material cohesion. All material objects are permeated  by   pneuma  in  a  state  of  dynamic  tension  which  holds  them together. 
The actual mechanics of this are obscure. What matters is that, as Galen puts  it,  the  Stoics  invoke  not  only  causes  of  becoming;  they  introduce causes of being as well ( Adv. Jul. xviiia.278-9). These causes they labelled aitia sunektika, or 'containing causes',9 and are initially at least conceived quite literally as holding things together. And this permeation is total -
solid  bodies  do  not  have  interstices  filled  with   pneuma  like  reinforcing bars in concrete: rather the entire substance is a complete intermixture. 
Galen explains:
If after they had been mixed these ingredients ( pneuma, water, and earth) were  all  to  remain  in  their  original  state,  that  would  imply  that  their minute  parts  had  simply  been  juxtaposed  and  not  that  they  had  been totally intermingled. But this is just what Empedocles thought. For he used to hold the view that natural bodies are produced not by an intermixture of the four elements but by their combination and for this reason  on  this  point  his  theory  coincides  with  that  of  Epicurus  and Democritus, whereas neither the Stoic philosophers nor Aristotle talked of juxtaposition. (Gal.  CC  5.2-3)
Galen proceeds to attack the view that there must be a containing cause of absolutely everything. Although he does not explicitly say so (his direct target  is  Stoic-influenced  doctors),  the  notion  is  probably  Stoic;  and Galen finds it incoherent:
If every single existent thing requires a containing cause without which it  cannot  exist,  that  cause,  as  it  is  an  existent,  must  inevitably  have another containing cause itself which must in turn have yet another -
and so on  ad infinitum. (Gal.  CC  6.3; cf.  Plen. vii.524-8) Materialism generates the regress. If
(1) every cause is corporeal
and
(2) every corporeal thing requires some further distinct containing cause of its existence, 
9 This is the standard English translation of the term, and as such I retain it. It is not very satisfactory; 'cohesive causes' might be better in the case of causes of being. Long and Sedley 1987, vol.i, 492 prefer 'sustaining causes', which at least has the merit of making sense in English -
however I fear that it purveys the wrong impression as to their role. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   s t o i c   a n a l y s i s   o f   c a u s a t i o n 483
then  if  anything  is  to  exist  at  all,  there  must  be  an  infinite  number  of causally-dependent, hierarchically organized bodies. That supposition is, if  not  incoherent,  at  the  very  least  ontologically  extravagant,  and  (one might also think) explanatorily null. The Stoics may however deny that (2)  holds  universally,  by  making   pneuma,  although  corporeal,  self-cohesive. But in that case they need to hold (absurdly, in Galen's opinion) that the grosser elements are somehow held together by the lighter and more volatile ones. 
Clearly the Stoic account as we have it is lacunose - but it is not obviously incoherent. The heavy elements (in particular earth) hold together on Galen's view simply because that is what it is to be solid: 'the fact that they (i.e. rocks and metals) are solid depends on this very quality, namely their  self-coherence'  ( CC  6.5).  But  there  is  no  logical  reason  why  one should  not  treat  solidity  as  a  derived  instead  of  a  basic  attribute,  to  be explained in terms of some further properties (as indeed it is in modern physical  chemistry).  Consequently  the  requirement  that  persisting objects need causes of that persistence does not conflict with the notion that  a  cause  is  essentially  something  active.  In  order  to  prevent  solid objects like cups and tables simply disintegrating into an amorphous pile of matter a constant active tension of the  pneuma  is required; thus objects really are constantly being caused to be the way they are, and these containing causes, although intimately intermixed with the materials themselves, are none the less separable from them.10
iii The Stoic analysis of causation
Of more moment, however, is the Stoics' conception of the proper analysis of causation. The founder of the school, Zeno
says that a cause is 'that because of which (δι' ο1)' while that of which it is a cause is an attribute; and that the cause is a body, while that of which it is a cause is a predicate. He says that it is impossible that the cause be present yet that of which it is the cause not belong. This thesis has the following force. A cause is that because of which something occurs, as, for example, it is because of prudence that being prudent occurs, because of soul  that  being  alive  occurs  .  .  .  Chrysippus  says  that  a  cause  is  'that because of which'; and that the cause is an existent or a body . . . He says that an explanation ( aitia) is the statement of a cause, or the statement of a cause  qua  cause. (Arius Didymus  ap. Stob. i.138.14-139.4) 10 In this sense Frede 1980, 243 is right to describe containing causes as 'the Stoic analogue to Aristotle's formal cause'. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
484
e x p l a n a t i o n   a n d   c a u s a t i o n
Zeno asserts a metaphysico-semantic thesis: the proper form of a causal statement is
(3) x causes F, 
where  x  names  an  object  and  F  an  attribute.  (3)  is  obviously  deficient: Sextus allows us to refine it:
The Stoics say that every cause is a body which becomes a cause to a body of something incorporeal. For instance the scalpel, a body, becomes the cause to the flesh, a body, of the incorporeal predicate 'being cut'. (S.E.  M
ix.211)
thus (3) may be expanded to
(3*) x causes y to be F; 
the causal relation is triadic, linking two bodies and an incorporeal attribute:  it  involves  one  object  e◊ecting  a  change  in  the  condition  of  some other object, the first being the active e√cient principle, the second the passive material. 
The Arius Didymus passage expresses the thesis of causal su√ciency: (4) if x is the cause of y's being F, then whenever x is present, y will be F. 
That  thesis  requires  further  analysis.  At  first  sight,  Arius  Didymus appears  to  attribute  to  Zeno  the  view  that  causes  and  e◊ects  must  be simultaneous; but that was certainly not (at least in complete generality) the canonical Stoic view. Causes can be causes of processes, and processes take time. Moreover, the condition of being present is not entirely lucid: must the cause be in contact with the a◊ected body? Near to it? Linked to it by some physical connection? The Stoics' position on this will become clearer as we proceed. 
Arius  Didymus'  intimation  that,  for  Zeno,  cause  and  e◊ect  must  in some  sense  be  contemporary  might  suggest  that  he  was  primarily  concerned  here  with   aitia  sunektika,  operating  continuously  to  preserve things' structures; and his examples are consistent with that. But clearly (4) is not restricted to the domain of conserving causes. Sextus again: The majority of them hold that of the causes some are containing ( sunek-
 tika), some co-operative ( sunaitia), and some auxiliary ( sunerga); and that causes are containing if, when they are present the e◊ect is present, when they are removed the e◊ect is removed, and when they are decreased the e◊ect is decreased (thus they say that the application of the noose is the Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   s t o i c   a n a l y s i s   o f   c a u s a t i o n 485
cause of the strangling); and that a co-operative cause is one which contributes a force equal to that of its fellow cause to the occurrence of the e◊ect (thus they say that each of the oxen drawing the plough is a co-operative cause of the drawing of the plough); and that an auxiliary cause is  one  which  contributes  a  slight  force  to  the  easy  production  of  the e◊ect,  as  for  instance  when  two  men  are  lifting  a  heavy  weight  with di√culty, a third appears to lighten it. (S.E.  PH  iii.15) Although  di◊erent  (and  mutually  inconsistent)  accounts  of  these  relations  survive,11 the  basic  idea  is  simple  enough.  Sunaitia,  as  defined  in Sextus and elsewhere,12 do not resemble their Platonic homonyms ( Tim. 
46c-e). Two13  sunaitia  are the co-operative causes for an e◊ect when they each supply some causal power to it. Sextus stipulates that they contribute an equal force to the outcome: but this seems theoretically unnecessary, and rigorously applied would enormously restrict the applicability of the notion. A  sunergon  is characterized as that which contributes to an outcome, but is not its primary cause, in that it is not counterfactually necessary for it. Here too the texts sometimes conflict:14 but a  sunergon apparently reinforces an existing  aition sunektikon, whereas two or more sunaitia  co-operate to bring about an e◊ect which each individually could not achieve, and thus collectively amount to an  aition sunektikon. This is Clement's testimony:
Whereas the auxiliary cause aids the containing cause, so as to intensify what comes about through the latter, the co-operative cause does not correspond  to  the  same  conception,  since  a  co-operative  cause  may exist where there is no containing cause. For the co-operative cause is conceived along with another which is itself equally incapable of producing the e◊ect on its own, since they are causes co-operatively. The di◊erence between the co-operative cause and the auxiliary cause lies in the  fact  that  the  co-operative  cause  produces  the  e◊ect  along  with another  cause  which  is  not  independently  producing  it,  whereas the auxiliary  cause,  in  creating  the  e◊ect  not  independently  but  by addingto  another,  is  acting as  auxiliary  to  the  very  cause  which  is 11 Clem.  Strom. viii.9.25 mentions αι3τια προκαταρκτικα!, συνεκτικα!, συνεργα!, and αι3τια ω9ν
ου0κ α3νευ, or prerequisite causes (cf. Plato  Phd. 99b); at 9.32 he substitutes συναι!τια for αι3τια
ω9ν  ου0κ  α3νευ. It is clear that Clement's distinctions are not systematic, and συναι!τια and αι3τια ω9ν ου0κ α3νευ cannot be synonymous, given the normal definition of what it is to be a sunaition. See however below, n. 16. 
12 See [Gal.]  Int. xiv.691-2, [Gal.]  Def. Med. xix.393. 
13 Or more: Sextus deals only with the simplest case, but it is readily generalizable to cover any number of co-operative causes. 
14 [Gal.]  Def. Med. xix.393 implies that a  sunergon  can bring about an e◊ect on its own; but that is surely aberrant. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
486
e x p l a n a t i o n   a n d   c a u s a t i o n
independently  creating  the  e◊ect,  so  that  the  e◊ect  is  intensified.15
(Clem.16  Strom. viii.9.33)
Sextus'  notion  of  containing  causation  is  one  that  involves  functional dependence, which represents a further strengthening of (4);  aitia sunektika  are not only co-temporal with their e◊ects - they are co-variant with them  as  well.17 Moreover  it  extends  the  ambit  of  containing  causation beyond the domain of conservation into that of genuine causal e√cacy, as Galen recommends ( Adv. Jul. xviiia 278). Compare this with the fact that all the examples attributed to Zeno by Arius Didymus are cases of conservation: the soul's presence in the body keeps it alive; the prudence in a man's soul makes him prudent.18
Thus  we  may  infer  that  the  concept  of  containing  causation  was extended beyond the explanation of persistent states to cover events and processes.19 In the process it became apparent that, if the thesis of causal su√ciency represented by (4) was to be retained it needed further refinement, since in many cases there is clearly no one individual item (on any commonsensical  metaphysics  of  individuation  at  least)  which  is  exclusively responsible for a given e◊ect, as the example of the oxen ploughing shows. Thus, while it was considered important to be able to retain (4) in some form, the requirement that there need be a unique cause is dropped, provided  that  there  is  some  collection  of  items  which  meets  both  the su√ciency and contemporaneity conditions. 
15 [Gal.]  Int. xiv.692 allows that  sunaitia  are sometimes individually su√cient for their e◊ects, and glances interestingly, if briefly, at the notion of causal over-determination: this seems to be an o◊-case,  albeit  an  interesting  one.  Even  so,  details  of  the  relations  between  and  proper characterizations of the triad of causes remain obscure, and it is possible that there was some overlap between the categories of  sunaitia  and  sunerga; Frede 1980 presents a clear reconstruction of how the classifications may have evolved. 
16 Clement of Alexandria is a relatively late writer (second century ad) but probably earlier than Diogenes Laertius; a word is in order to justify using him as a source for the distinctions of our period (see above, p. 481, n.6). Su√ce it to say that it seems to me highly plausible that the technical senses he distinguishes were already deployed by the Stoa of Chrysippus: see the discussion of Cic.  Fat. 41 below. 
17 Cf. [Gal.]  Def. Med. xix.393; and see Hankinson 1987a, 84-5. 
18 It is the canonical form of causal sentences given by (3) that is responsible for the Stoic view that virtues are corporeal: they must be if they are going actually to do anything, and only things which do things are causes (see p. 479). Here too we may see the Stoics' containing cause as analogous to Aristotle's formal cause (n. 10 above). 
19 Cf. [Gal.]  Syn. Puls. viii.458: 'it is necessary to remember how we said we were speaking of the containing cause not in the strict sense but using the term loosely. For no one before the Stoics either spoke of or admitted the existence of the containing cause in the strict sense. And what have even before our time been spoken of as containing have been causes of something's coming to be, not of existence'. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
a n t e c e d e n t   c a u s e s
487
iv Antecedent causes
Here the Stoic analysis runs into di√culties. All sorts of ordinary, everyday cause will fail to satisfy the strict conditions on containing causation. We ordinarily think that causes can precede their e◊ects, and so did the Greeks: not all causes satisfy (4). In fact,20 we operate with two quite distinct and irreducible  notions  of  cause-as-preceding  and  cause-as-contemporary. 
They  are  not  incompatible;  but  metaphysical  sophistication  is  needed  to unite them in a coherent account of the causal structure of the world: Some of them, however, have said that things present can be causes of things future as well, as antecedents ( prokatarktika), as for instance pro-tracted exposure to the sun of fever. But some reject this since the cause is relative, and relative to the e◊ect, and hence cannot precede it as cause. 
(S.E.  PH  i.16)
Sextus does not tell us who these people are - and crucially does not indicate  whether  the  latter  group  are  Stoics  too,  or  opponents  from  other schools.21 But however that may be, the notion of antecedent causes,  aitia prokatarktika, is clearly Stoic: Chrysippus exploits it to rescue human freedom from the clutches of an all-embracing fate.22 In the analysis of the notion itself, however, one must range a little further than texts which can be securely ascribed to the Stoics, since, as Sextus' example suggests, the concept  was  particularly  applicable  to  medical  contexts.  Galen  wrote  a short text  On Antecedent Causes ( CP) in which his purpose was to rehabili-tate the concept against the attacks of Erasistratus and others. 
Since an antecedent cause precedes its e◊ect, it also precedes its containing cause. Clement writes:
When antecedent causes are removed the e◊ect remains, whereas a containing  cause  is  one  during  whose  presence  the  e◊ect  remains  and  on whose removal the e◊ect is removed. The containing cause is called synonymously the perfect ( autoteles) cause since it is self-su√ciently productive of the e◊ect. (Clem.  Strom. viii.9.33)
This  distinction  goes  back  at  least  to  Chrysippus.  In  a  famous  illustra-tion23 Chrysippus compares the mechanism of human action with that of 20 See e.g. R. Taylor 1975. 
21 The sceptics were to make great play with the relational nature of causing, arguing that this fact rendered all causal talk incoherent: S.E.  PH  iii.25-8; but that is beyond the ambit of this discussion. See however Barnes 1983a. 
22 See below, p. 529. 
23 Reported in Cic.  Fat. 42-3, and Gell. vii.2.10. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
488
e x p l a n a t i o n   a n d   c a u s a t i o n
a rolling drum. An external push is required to set it in motion, analogous to the perceptual impression which initiates human movement; but for it actually to roll, it must itself be (at least approximately) cylindrical. It is this fact of its internal constitution that accounts for its ability to roll (and which is analogous to human dispositions). 
The initial impulse is an event, while the cylinder's 'rollability' ( volubi-
 litas)  is  a  persisting  condition.  The  impulse  is  external  to  the  cylinder, while its rollability is internal to it. And antecedent causes are universally defined as being external to the things of which they are causes (cf. Cic. 
 Fat. 24).24
Cicero reports Chrysippus' account:
'Some causes', he says, 'are perfect ( perfectae) and principal ( principales), others are auxiliary ( adiuvantes) and proximate ( proximae). Hence when we  say  that  everything  takes  place  by  fate  from  antecedent  causes,  we should not be taken to mean by perfect and principal causes, but by auxiliary  and  proximate  causes.'  Accordingly  he  counters  the  argument which I have just set out as follows: 'if all things come about by fate it does  follow  that  all  things  come  about  from  prior  ( antepositae)  causes, but  not  from  principal  and  perfect  but  from  auxiliary  and  proximate causes'. (Cic.  Fat. 41)
Cicero is generally a careful translator of technical Greek terms into Latin; but it is di√cult to extract coherent correspondences from Cicero's text. 
Most  obviously,  he  apparently  groups  auxiliary  and  proximate  causes together,  while  they  are  explicitly  distinguished  from  the  'perfect  and principal' causes which must at least include  aitia sunektika.25 Yet at  Fat. 
44, admittedly  in propria persona, Cicero refers to 'proxima illa et continens causa', where  continens  surely stands for  sunektikon.26 It seems that the Greek  aition proseches  is the most likely original for the Latin  causa proxima;27 and  Galen  ( Caus.  Puls.  ix.107)  insists  that  there  is  no  di◊erence between  proseches  and  sunektikon. However that identification may be, it quite clearly delivers precisely the wrong sense here, since Cicero must be referring  to  antecedent  causes.  Moreover,  Erasistratus  ( ap.  Gal.  CP
24 Although the precise sense in which they are to be external is di√cult, see Hankinson 1987a, 92-7. 
25  Perfecta  presumably renders  autoteles; the case is less clear with  principalis, see below, p. 489. 
26 Or  sunechon; but there is no determinable di◊erence between the two: see Hankinson 1987a, 81
n. 6. 
27 Frede 1980, 241, lists  proseches,  proe-goumenon, and  prokatarktikon  as the possible Greek originals behind Cicero's  proxima; and he plumps for  prokatarktikon  as the most likely candidate. But we have little evidence for Chrysippus' actual terminology, apart from Plu.  Stoic. Rep. 1056b; that text talks of Chrysippus' incoherent views regarding  aitia autotelê  and  prokatarktika - but it does not explicitly attribute the use of that terminology to him. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
a n t e c e d e n t   c a u s e s
489
xiv.174) apparently used  aition proseches  to pick out what was genuinely the cause of some outcome, as opposed to merely being a causally relevant antecedent,28 and  such  causes  were  for  him  proximate  in  our  sense: immediately contiguous to the e◊ect in question. The basic feature of an aition proseches, then, is its proximity to its e◊ect. But that need not make it a containing cause; more is needed to assimilate  aitia proseche-  to  aitia sunektika:  and  Chrysippus  makes  no  such  assimilation.  Cicero,  perhaps confused by later theorizing, disastrously identifies proximate with containing causes in  Fat. 44. 
More significant is the question of whether each member of Cicero's two  pairs  of  terms  picks  out  a  di◊erent  item  in  the  causal  analysis,  or whether  they  are  merely  synonyms.  Does  a  perfect  cause  di◊er  from  a principal  cause?  Are  proximate  and  auxiliary  causes  distinct  items?29
' Principalis'  may  well  render  ' kurio-taton',  which  sometimes  modifies
' aition', although not apparently with any technical sense. Thus it would simply  reinforce  ' perfecta'.  However,  it  is  possible  that  Cicero's  ' principalis'  may translate  proe-goumenon. Many texts refer to  aitia proe-goumena, or preceding causes; but none of them appear to be authentically Stoic, or at least early Stoic, and the distinction is most frequently to be found in medical contexts. 
Alexander of Aphrodisias uses the term in his  de Fato, in his refutation of the Stoic doctrine; and he appears to waver between the senses 'preceding' and 'primary'.30 If the latter sense is intended here, then it will be indistinguishable  from  'perfecta'.  If,  however,  it  were  to  mean  'preceding',  then,  given  that   aitia  autotele-  are  synonymous  with   aitia  sunektika, and the latter are contemporaneous with their e◊ects, there must be a distinction between the two terms. But Alexander is not particularly helpful. 
His  target  is  the  Stoic  notion  of  chance:  he  holds  that  ordinary  people describe events as being chance or fortuitous 'when they supervene on the aitia proe-goumena  of other things'. Here  proe-goumenon  naturally translates as  'principal'  or  'primary'.31 A  little  later  on,  Alexander  challenges  his Stoic opponents to say how it can be that anything is a matter of chance if this common intuition about chance is correct, and yet 'everything that is or  comes  to  be  does  so  of  necessity  from  certain  prior  and  preceding causes'. Here the notion of precedence seems to be important in addition 28 Gal.  CP  xiv.174-6; see also  MM  x.97-9; and Hankinson 1991, 179. 
29 A further possibility is that they have the same reference but di◊er in sense: one designation denoting the time, the other the nature, of the cause. 
30 Alex.  Fat. 172.17◊., 173.13◊.; see Sharples 1983, 132-3. 
31 Indeed, as a synonym for what Alexander elsewhere calls ' per se  causes':  Fat. 172.17◊. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
490
e x p l a n a t i o n   a n d   c a u s a t i o n
to that of primacy - and one suspects that Alexander is deliberately mis-reading his opponents' position for his own polemical ends. 
The  evidence  so  far,  then,  is  indeterminate,  both  as  to  the  possible Greek original for Cicero's  principalis  and as to what it might have meant. 
However,  if  it  does  render   proe-goumenon,  and  if   proe-goumenon  does  not mean 'primary' (and hence does not simply reinforce  perfecta), what might it mean? Here evidence from the medical schools becomes important. 
v The concept of preceding causes
Whatever the truth about Stoic usage, there is an amply attested medical concept of the  aition proe-goumenon. Galen again:
As for Athenaeus of Attaleia, he founded the medical school known as the Pneumatists. It suits his doctrine to speak of a containing cause in illness since he bases himself upon the Stoics and he was a pupil and disciple  of  Posidonius  .  .  .  Athenaeus'  three  types  are  as  follows:  the  first consists  of  containing  causes,  the  second  of  preceding  causes,  and  the third of the matter of procatarctic [i.e. antecedent] causes: for they call everything external to the body which harms it and produces disease in it thus. If what is produced in the body belongs to the class of what causes disease, then, while it has not actually brought the disease about, it is called  the  preceding  cause.  Alterations  are  produced  in  the  natural pneuma  by these [i.e. preceding] causes together with those which are external [i.e. antecedent causes], and with the body moistened or desic-cated, chilled or heated, these are said to be the containing causes of diseases. ( CC  2.1-4)
The physiology and pathology here need not concern us; what matters is the tripartite scheme of causes the passage introduces, and the close relations  it  adduces  between  the  Stoic  Posidonius  and  the  physician Athenaeus, the first century bc founder of the Pneumatists. Here a clear distinction  emerges  between  antecedent   aitia  prokatarktika  and   aitia proe-goumenon. Frede writes:32 'if I understand the distinction correctly, the  prokatarktikon  is the external antecedent cause, the  proe-goumenon  an internal  disposition  brought  about  by  the   prokatarktikon  which  in  turn activates  the   sunektikon'.  This  understanding  is  confirmed,  for  medical contexts  at  least,  by  a  number  of  passages;33 and  the  ascription  to Athenaeus  is  reinforced  by  [Galen]   Def.  Med.  xix.392.  Elsewhere  Galen gives the following example:
32 Frede 1980, 242. 
33 E.g. Gal.  MM  x.65-7;  Praes. Puls. ix.386. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
d i s p o s i t i o n s   a n d   p o w e r s 491
Suppose that as the result of a chill falling from the outside the skin is tightened, and as a result of this tightening the usual exhalation from the pores is checked, and since it is checked it builds up, and thus a fever takes  hold  as  a  result  of  which  the  function  ( chreia)  of  the  pulses  is altered, and as a result of this the pulses are altered too: in this case the antecedent cause is the externally incident chill, while all the rest up to the  alteration  of  the  function  of  the  pulses  are  preceding  causes.  So through  the  mediation  of  the  preceding  causes  the  antecedent  cause alters the function of the pulses, which is one of the containing causes, and thus a◊ects the pulses themselves. ( Caus. Puls. ix.2-3) There are some obscurities here. It is not clear, for instance, how the alteration of the pulses' function can itself be a cause on all fours with the others;  but  for  all  that,  the  broad  lines  of  Frede's  interpretation  seem vindicated. However, such distinctions are not universal in the medical schools,34 and  Galen  himself  does  not  employ  them  consistently.  It appears that they were the province of a specialized type of medical theory, one originated by Athenaeus35 - and if that is right, further doubt still is cast upon their Stoic credentials. 
Yet Athenaeus had Stoic connections: the issue cannot so easily be settled. And as Frede notes, the distinction between an external occasioning force  and  the  internal  disposition  upon  which  it  operates  seems  tailor-made to fit the psychological theory which Chrysippus is expounding. So let us return to Chrysippus' text. 
vi Dispositions and powers
On the assumption that  perfecta  and  principalis  really do advert to di◊erent features of the causal structure of things, the distinction may be cashed out as follows. Take the cylinder. Even at rest it possesses its rollability - a dispositional  property  that  derives  directly  from  its  structure.  When  it receives  a  shove  (and  when  other  necessary  conditions  are  met)  that potentiality  becomes  actualized.  It  is  obviously  useful  to  distinguish between such dispositions and their actualizations, no less so in the case of human psychology, which is Chrysippus' main concern. 
It is thus tempting to conclude that, congruently with the medical evidence, Chrysippus used  aition proe-goumenon  to refer to the persistent dispositional conditions of an agent in virtue of which a particular external occasion  would  have  a  particular  result.  Only  if  I  have  a  weakness  for 34 See Hankinson 1987a, 87-92. 
35 Such is the view of Hankinson 1987a; and see Wellmann 1895. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
492
e x p l a n a t i o n   a n d   c a u s a t i o n
sticky cakes will the sight of a danish pastry arouse in me the desire to consume it, and set in train a sequence of events towards that end. 'Of causes', Clement writes, 
Some are antecedent ( prokatarktika), some containing ( sunektika), some auxiliary  ( sunerga),  some  prerequisite  ( ho-n  ouk  aneu).  Antecedent  are those causes which primarily provide the impulse towards the coming to be of something, as beauty is to those intemperate in love; for when it is seen  by  them  it  conditions  the  erotic  disposition,  but  not  however  in such a way as to necessitate it. (Clem.  Strom. viii.9.25) Clement pretty clearly reports a Stoic view here (albeit possibly a late version): even when the disposition has been primed by a suitable stimulus, action in accordance with that disposition will not necessarily result. The agent must assent to the impulse which the disposition, in concert with the impression, gives him.36 This suggests that human action requires a more complex account. We might have thought, given Chrysippus' example, that there were really only two internal states: the persisting disposition, and the disposition in a state of actuality, stirred up by some suitable impression. Cashing out the metaphor of the drum, its rollability corresponds to the first condition, and its actually rolling to the second. But that conflicts with the medical evidence, where the  proe-goumenon  appears to be an internal actualized condition. However, if we read Clement in the manner suggested, the  aition proe-goumenon  will be the internal disposition in  a  state  of  actualization  waiting  for  some  further  input  before  the causal activity gets under way. This is, however, di√cult to square with Chrysippus' illustration, since nothing in it appears to correspond to the extra input that assent to the action-guiding content of the aroused disposition is supposed to provide. 
Perhaps  Chrysippus'  example  was  badly  chosen;  perhaps  he  thought that the additional stage of assent was irrelevant to the matter at issue; or perhaps Chrysippus' theorizing was of an earlier and less developed kind. 
Of these possibilities the third seems the most probable. And all of this speculation only makes sense if one assumes that 'perfecta' and 'principalis' in Cicero's text really do pick out distinct items. 
Let us now consider his other pair,  adiuvans  and  proxima.  Adiuvans  suggests  sunergon.37 We have already treated the possible meanings of  prox-
36 For  a  very  detailed  and  clear  reconstruction  of  the  details  of  the  philosophical  psychology behind this early Stoic position, see Inwood 1985 and below, pp. 560-84. 
37 Frede 1980, 239-40, allows that  adiuvans  might render  sunaition (although not in its standard Hellenistic sense - it would rather correspond to the  sunaitia  of  Tim. 46c-e): but he takes it to be clear that the reference here is to  sunerga. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
d i s p o s i t i o n s   a n d   p o w e r s 493
 ima. Now, if  perfecta  and  principalis  are to have di◊erent senses, one would expect the second pair similarly to pick out di◊erent things; and of course there  is  ample  later  evidence  for  such  a  separation  of  denotation. 
Supposing that  proxima  at the very least denotes  prokatarktikon  and  adiu-
 vans  denotes  sunergon, we are left to determine what Chrysippus intended by the distinction. 
Frede assumes that the two are e◊ective synonyms, and then asks 'how an antecedent cause can be conceived of as a  sunergon, if a  sunergon  is the kind of item which helps to bring about the e◊ect by making it easier'.38
He is working with the hypothesis that there are two distinct classificatory triads, that of (A)  autoteles,  sunaition, and  sunergon  on the one hand, and  (B)   sunektikon,  proe-goumenon,  and   prokatarktikon  on  the  other. 
Things are not quite as clear-cut as that ( sunaitia  and  sunektika  frequently appear in the same contexts); although significantly Galen never makes use of (A) at all. None the less, even if Frede is broadly right, the triads can hardly cover the same ground. (A) makes distinctions within the category  of  contemporaneous  causing;  (B),  by  contrast,  involves  temporal considerations.  The  two  triads  were  no  doubt  separately  conceived  to fulfil distinct roles. 
Thus Frede's attempt to find a way in which  aitia prokatarktika  might seem  to  be  at  least  a  member  of  the  class  of   sunerga  seems  misguided. 
However,  if  we  suppose  Cicero's  Chrysippus  not  merely  to  be  o◊ering synonyms with his  adiuvans  and  proxima, then his thought may be as follows. In the case of the cylinder, what is required to set it in motion is a causa proxima, an  aition prokatarktikon. This is categorially quite distinct from  whatever  it  is  internal  to  the  cylinder  which  is  responsible  for  its rolling, something explicitly characterized by Cicero as a  vis, a force. As Frede notes,39 one must not imagine the Stoics simply to be saying that only suitably-shaped things can roll. Of course they are saying that - but there is more to it. The cylinder, having been started, continues to roll by its own force and nature ( suapte vi et natura). That is, there is something internal to it which is actually doing the moving.40
This  is  not  merely  adventitious:  on  the  contrary,  it  marks  a  vitally important  feature  of  the  ancient  concept  of  causation  in  general,  one 38 Frede 1980, 240-1. 
39 Frede 1980, 236. 
40 This aspect of the theory is clearly visible in Gellius' account: '"just as", he says, "if you push a stone cylinder on steeply sloping ground you have produced the cause and beginning of its forward motion, but soon it rolls forward not because you are making it do so, but because such are its form and smooth-rolling shape"' (Gell. vii.2.10). Only by building a great deal into the notion  of  form  here  do  we  get  anything  like  Cicero's  version  -  but  I  suspect  that  is  due  to Gellius' own misunderstanding of the nature of the argument. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
494
e x p l a n a t i o n   a n d   c a u s a t i o n
which  di◊erentiates,  from  any  modern  notion,  and  one  which  is  very widely shared, perhaps even by the mechanistically-minded Epicureans. 
Thus the  aition prokatarktikon  sets the cylinder o◊, but after that it is its own internal force that keeps it going. Even so, I might give it an additional  shove  to  help  it  on  its  way  -  then  I  would  be  assisting  a  process already undertaken; I would be acting as a  sunergon, since the extra push is neither necessary for the continued roll, nor is it part of the internal process which is keeping the rolling going. Thus, although antecedent and auxiliary causes are distinct, they share the crucial feature of externality to the process in question. 
If this is right, there is some philosophical point to Chrysippus' distinguishing  between  each  member  in  his  two  pairs;  and  that  fact  in  turn lends some support to the hypothesis canvassed above concerning the distinction between the  causa perfecta  and the  causa principalis; both are internal to the object in question - but only the former is in itself su√cient to bring about the e◊ect, being the actualized state of the latter. Thus the original  Chrysippean  distinction  does  not  precisely  parallel  that  to  be found  in  the  later  medical  tradition,  or  the  view  reconstructed  from Clement. It is, however, intelligible. 
The  suggestion,  then,  is  this.  Chrysippus  had  already  distinguished between the internal proclivity to action, and that proclivity in its galva-nized  state,  and  he  perhaps  also  called  them  respectively  the   aition proe-goumenon  and  autoteles. This distinction was taken over and refined, both by later Stoics interested in making room for assent in their action theory, and by doctors wishing to distinguish between di◊erent stages of an internal pathogenic process. Secondly he distinguished between initial triggers to the disposition which set up a perfect cause, and later assistance to it; here too, in a modified form, his distinctions were to become adopted and canonized by later theorists. This is speculation: but at least it  makes  sense  of  the  evidence,  and  answers  to  the  concerns  that  motivated Chrysippus in the first place. 







vii Causes and conditions
But what exactly is an internal cause? Cicero writes:
They  [sc.  the  Stoics]  say  that  there  is  a  di◊erence  between  whether  a thing is of such a kind that something cannot be brought about without it, or such that something must necessarily be brought about by it. None of the causes mentioned therefore [namely a set of remote prerequisite conditions]  is  really  a  cause,  since  none  by  its  own  force  brings  about Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
c a u s e s   a n d   c o n d i t i o n s
495
that of which it is said to be the cause; nor is that which is a condition of a thing's being brought about a cause, but that which is such that when it is present that of which it is the cause necessarily is brought about. 
(Cic.  Fat. 36)
The  distinction  between  real  causes  and  mere  prerequisites  is  found  in Plato (indeed the Hippocratics);41 and Galen, too, talks of causal prerequisites.42 The  intuitive  idea  involved  here  is  clear  enough:  some  things seem to contribute directly to an outcome, while others merely allow that contribution to be made. Cicero clearly distinguishes here between necessary and su√cient conditions of an outcome - but this distinction cannot capture the notion of causal e√cacy at issue (no version of it can - this is an important fact about the concept of causation, and one to which many recent accounts do violence).43
The  terminology  of  causes   per  se  and  causes   per  accidens ( kata  sumbe-be-kos) is Aristotelian ( Phys. ii.3.195a33-b3), although Galen's distinction is not the same as Aristotle's. For Aristotle it is largely a matter of explanatory function. What distinguishes a cause  per se  from a cause  per accidens is that, while they both refer to the same item, it is only the former that serves to pick it out by the precise description under which it is a cause of the object in question. Hence the Peripatetic distinction relates more to explanation than to causation.44
Clement (not to mention Galen and the Stoics) has something else in mind:
I know that many say that that which does not hinder is a cause as well. 
But  we  say  against  them  that  the  conception  of  cause  involves  doing, being active, and performing. In this respect at least that which does not hinder is inactive. (Clem.  Strom. i.17.83)
The original Stoic notion of the cause as active lies behind this. The necessary  conditions  which  permit  that  action  are  not  properly  to  be  called causes  at  all.  In  a  more  relaxed  vein,  Galen  will  allow  that  you  can  call 41 Clement makes the same distinction, although his example is puzzling: 'all of the causes can be exhibited in order in the case of the pupil. The father is the antecedent cause of learning, the teacher the containing cause, the pupil's nature the auxiliary cause, while the time reserves the place of the prerequisite' (Clem.  Strom. viii.9.25). 
42 He mentions place, and an unimpeded intervening space, as being prerequisites to the production of an artefact:  CP  vii.76-90. He also calls them 'incidental causes', by contrast with those items that 'contribute of their own nature to something's coming to be' which may be called indi◊erently 'causes from their own nature', or 'causes properly so called', or 'causes in virtue of themselves' (76). 
43 I do not mean to suggest that causes might not be either necessary or su√cient in the circumstances for their e◊ects - they may well be. But necessity and/or su√ciency in the circumstances cannot constitute an analysis of the causal relation. 
44 See above, section i. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
496
e x p l a n a t i o n   a n d   c a u s a t i o n
them causes if you like, as long as you are aware that they are merely factors incidental to the production of the outcome.45 Clement wavers: here he appears to side with the Stoics, but elsewhere he allows, for example, that the flesh is a cause to the knife of cutting as well as the knife's being a cause to the flesh of being cut.46 What matters is the Stoic insistence on the primacy of agency.47
But this is not the whole story. It is not just that, properly so called, the sequence of causation is a stream of activity. That activity is conditioned by the internal properties and states of the objects which are causes. And this brings us back to a set of earlier issues, which connect intimately with the theme of the next chapter. If Fate is, as the Stoics say, an uninterrupted sequence of causes,48 then, given that causes are uniquely paired one-to-one with e◊ects,49 it is di√cult to resist a determinist conclusion; and the Stoics did not resist it. But if determinism is true, and hence the way in which events unfold is ultimately determined from all eternity, then what is to justify our singling out agents as responsible for what they do? The basic Stoic answer is that agents do what they do as a result of their own internal structure. The fact that we are the way we are, have the characters and dispositions that we have, causally explains (at least in part) why we do what we do: it is in this sense that our actions are up to us ( eph' he-min.50
Cicero reinforces this:
'Cause' is not to be understood in such a way as to make what precedes a thing the cause of that thing, but what precedes it e◊ectively: the cause of  my  playing  ball  was  not  my  going  down  to  the  campus,  nor  did Hecuba's giving birth to Alexander make her the cause of the death of Trojans, nor was Tyndareus the cause of Agamemnon's death because he was the father of Clytemnestra. (Cic.  Fat. 34)
Cicero quotes from Ennius' adaptation of Euripides'  Medea  1-8: would that trees had never been felled on Pelion to build the Argo. But such causal antecedents, although (in the circumstances at least) necessary conditions of Medea's falling in love with Jason, her jealousy, and her eventual 45 Galen here follows his syncretist tendencies, borrowing something - although not a precise terminology - from the Peripatetics. 
46 Clem.  Strom. viii.9.30. Clement is making a semantic distinction: 'causes are not causes  of  each other but  to  each other . . . thus the stones in a vault are the causes to each other, of the predicate
"remaining", but not of each other'. The point is important if you want, as the Stoics do, to insist on the categorial distinction between cause and e◊ect (the one corporeal, the other not), and yet still preserve the notion of a sequence of causes. This will be of relevance later on. 
47 It is this that allows Seneca, in spite of the terminological proliferation we have examined, to contrast the unity of the Stoic position with the 'crowd of causes' o◊ered by the Peripatetics and others:  Ep. 55.11. 
48 D.L. vii.149; Aët. i.27.3, 28.4. 
49 The distinction between (T1), (T2), and (T1*), (T2*) is relevant here. 
50 See below, pp. 531-4. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
c a u s e s   a n d   t i m e
497
filicide, do not really cause these outcomes.51 It is the agents' being the way they are that causes them to act in the way they do, although of course their  actually  acting  thus  is  itself  co-determined  by  events  external  to them. Once again the basic distinctions between a disposition primed to behave in a certain way, and the occasions for its behaviour, are called into play. 
viii Causes and time
We have seen how the Stoics, and those influenced by them, attempted to answer to two basic intuitions about causes, namely that there is a sense of
'cause' in which causes are contemporary with their e◊ects, a sense captured by proposition (4); but secondly that, if the causal structure of the world  is  one  that  unfolds  diachronically,  in  some  (distinct)  sense  causes had better precede their e◊ects. Sextus, naturally, holds that you can't have it both ways, and concludes that for this reason the whole notion of causing, at least on the Dogmatists' analysis, is incoherent ( PH  iii.25-30). That conclusion  is  hasty  and  unwarranted.  But  temporal  considerations  are important. If causes are su√cient (in the circumstances) for their e◊ects, as any determinist must hold, then why does causing take time? Why is it not the  case  that  the  whole  causal  history  of  the  world  is  collapsed  into  an instant? Such worries are profound - and while there is no direct evidence that the Stoics puzzled over them, it seems that their idea that the basic causal forces are internal properties is well adapted to cope with it (as is Aristotle's concept of the gradual realization of form). Time is, as it were, built directly into the fundamental concepts involved. Processes, and not atomic events, are taken to be ontologically primary. Events are merely the three-dimensional slices through a four-dimensional continuum. It is significant  that  the  ancient  texts  rarely  (Epicurean  atomic  collisions  apart) deal  with  instantaneous  events  at  all.  Rather  the  elements  are  processes and states; processes tend towards states, and states are the natural outcome  of  processes  (such  is  the  Aristotelian  view).  This  ontology  has  the advantage of resisting the temptation to temporal collapse. 
Some indirect evidence for it is to be found in disputes concerning the proper semantic analysis of causal language:
The sun, or the sun's heat, is the cause of the wax being melted or the melting of the wax. For even on this they are in dispute, some saying that 51 Clement makes a similar point at  Strom. viii.9.27: all of the preceding events are chance causes, and hence not real causes, of Medea's crime. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
498
e x p l a n a t i o n   a n d   c a u s a t i o n
causes  are  causes  of  nouns  like  'the  melting',  others  of  predicates  like
'being melted'. (S.E.  PH  iii.14)
Clement echoes the point:
Some are causes of predicates, e.g. 'is cut' whose inflection is 'being cut', others of propositions, e.g. 'a ship is built', whose inflection this time is
'a ship's being built'. (Clem.  Strom. viii.9.26)
The  predicate-expressions  are  clearly  suited  to  the  denotation  of  states ('the  wax's  being  melted'),  while  the  noun-phrases  naturally  advert  to processes. There is of course nothing incoherent in adopting both modes of expression.52
This suggests a model of the universe's causal structure in which individuals  (conceived  as  broadly  Aristotelian  substances)  lead  existences which causally intersect with each other at spatio-temporal nodes; these intersections are the antecedent causes in virtue of which the substances'
dispositional structures are roused into actuality and the processes which are the basic causal constituents of the world get under way.53
ix The Epicureans and causal explanation
Crucial to what has gone before is the notion, already present in Aristotle (and perhaps to be found in Plato's ever-moving soul:  Phdr. 245c-246a), that processes require continuous immanent causes to keep them going. 
It is well known that the Greeks lacked a systematic concept of inertia,54
the idea that a process will just continue linearly once begun until something intervenes to stop or alter it. This lack explains Chrysippus' invocation of the internal force of the cylinder that propels it, and indeed the general notion of the containing cause. Indeed the drive to provide causal explanations  of  such  continuities  rather  than  simply  referring  them  to some  conservation  law  is  one  of  the  principal  divergences  between ancient and modern patterns of explanation. 
The  atomists  might  appear  to  run  counter  to  this  general  tendency. 
After all, they systematically reduce their explanatory resources to a small stock of primitive concepts, principal among them being the motion and interaction of the atoms, and their solidity, resistivity, and non-interpene-trability. Everything in the macroscopic world is to be explained as the 52 Diodorus Cronus' celebrated argument against motion (see above, pp. 356-62) only attacks the concept of the process. 
53 This  will  take  on  additional  significance  in  the  debate  over  human  freedom:  see  below, pp. 529-31. 
54 See Duhot 1989. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   e p i c u r e a n s   a n d   c a u s a l   e x p l a n a t i o n 499
outcome of such atomic collisions and intertwinings. Everything is, then, the result of such random (in the sense of unplanned) interactions. The challenge of Epicurean physics and cosmology is to be able to produce a convincing account of the complexity of the cosmos, and crucially of its apparent order, on the basis of such a limited range of explanatory concepts. 
First of all, Epicurus accepts the basic causal principles of conservation that underlie Stoic physics, since total annihilation and creation  ex nihilo are impossible. Hence there must always have been a universe (not, for the Epicureans, identical with our cosmos, which is but one of many); and the eternity of the universe is itself a reason for thinking that nothing can be destroyed, since, in the infinite totality of past time, if it could have been it would have been.55
The  nil ex nihilo  principle (cf. Lucr. i.150 ◊.) may be construed in two distinct ways:
(5) nothing can be created without previously existing matter, and
(6) nothing can occur without a cause. 
It  is  clear  that  the  Epicureans  are  concerned  primarily  with  (5);  indeed they reject (6) (which is simply the contrapositive of (T1) above) in its full generality.  Their  opponents  were  not  slow,  however,  to  accuse  them  of inconsistency  on  this  score.  In  the  following,  Alexander  reports  Stoic arguments presumably directed against the Epicureans:
Nothing in the world exists or happens causelessly, because nothing is independent of or insulated from everything that has happened before. 
For  the  world  would  be  wrenched  apart  and  divided,  and  no  longer remain a unity, for ever governed in accordance with a single ordering and  management,  if  an  uncaused  process  were  introduced.  And  an uncaused motion would be introduced, were everything that exists or happens not to have some preceding causes from which it necessarily follows. For something to happen causelessly is, they say, both similar to and as impossible as something coming to be out of what is not. (Alex. 
 Fat. 192.7 ◊.)
The last sentence clearly asserts that the considerations which support (5) equally support (6) - and there is something in that, even if one is inclined to think they support neither. 
55 See above, pp. 363-6. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
500
e x p l a n a t i o n   a n d   c a u s a t i o n
The basic atomist ontology of atoms and the void needs no rehearsal here - su√ce it to say that the Epicurean project consists precisely in the attempt to show that all other properties of things are either derivative of or emergent upon the basic properties of the ontological primaries.56 Nor is it necessary here to assess the success of their programme: its structure is what matters. In the first place, the project is an extraordinarily bold one; and the ingenuity with which Lucretius, our most complete source, attempts to carry it out is testimony to the seriousness with which the Epicureans viewed it. 
None  the  less,  it  runs  into  severe,  perhaps  insuperable  di√culties.  A fundamental  problem  for  Epicurean  physics  and  cosmology  is  that  of explaining how the world can exhibit such a high degree of order and regularity if it is merely, as the atomists have it, the chance outcome of random  atomic  collisions.  Given  that  the  only  explanatory  tools  at  their disposal are the reboundings and intertwinings of the atoms as they bump together during their endless fall through infinite space, it becomes very hard to see how such limited machinery could explain the generation of a world such as ours, much less explain its extraordinary degree of stability. 
One of the standard reasons for thinking that there are causes (i.e. regular causes) at all is the observed regularity of natural production: That cause exists is plausible; for how could there come to be increase, decrease, generation, destruction, in general change, each of the physical and mental outcomes, the ordering of the whole universe and everything else except by reason of some cause? . . . Moreover, if cause were non-existent,  everything  would  have  been  produced  by  everything  at  random; thus horses might have been born of flies, and elephants of ants. 
(S.E.  PH  iii.17-18)
And Lucretius echoes this view (i.159-73). The Epicurean response is to posit  the  existence  of  'seeds'  (Ep.  Ep.  Hdt.  39)  conceived  of  as  resistant molecules of organized atoms that can act as templates for the organization around them of a copy of the same kind. Of course, they are right to think that they need something of the sort - but their own atomistic physics is woefully inadequate to provide an answer in detail as to how it is supposed to work. The atomists tend to argue first for the inescapability of the atomic hypothesis, and then having established that for the need for seeds on their model. But that inference is only as good as its first step; and the  atomists'  arguments  for  their  fundamental  physical  principles  are fragile.57
56 See above, pp. 380-3, 550-3. 
57 However see above, p. 0 0 0. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   e p i c u r e a n s   a n d   c a u s a l   e x p l a n a t i o n 501
The atomists have long been praised for adumbrating modern scientific styles  of  explanation,  and  for  seeing  that  one  may  reductively  explain macro-properties  as  being  emergent  upon  quite  distinct  micro-structures. But in fact the Epicureans could not emancipate themselves from the  tendency  to  conceptualize  the  micro-properties  as  being  similar  in type  to  their  phenomenal  macroscopic  counterparts:  'things  that  seem hard  and  sti◊  must  be  made  up  of  deeply  indented  and  hooked  atoms'
(Lucr. ii.444-5); while fluids are composed of smooth rounded atoms.58
If  we  allow  the  Epicureans  their  atomic  primary  qualities  of  weight, size, resistance, and shape, what use can they make of them? First of all, atomic  weight  is  taken  to  be  a  hypothesis  necessary  to  explain  atomic motion (Ep.  Ep. Hdt. 61; Lucr. ii.83-5, 216-18). The atoms have a continuous nisus to move in a particular direction ('downwards'), moreover one which does not vary from atom to atom (Lucr. ii.225-42). It is not, therefore, a function of weight, contrary to Aristotle's view; and this direction is not given by the centre of the cosmos (the Epicurean cosmos, being infinite, has no centre), but rather is a set of rectilinear parallel trajectories. 
Solidity and shape of course account for their rebounding in a determinate manner after collisions, and for their intertwining:
The atoms move continuously and for ever, some separating a great distance  from  each  other,  others  keeping  up  their  vibration  on  the  spot whenever they happen to get trapped by their interlinking, or imprisoned atoms which link up. For the nature of the void brings this about by separating each atom o◊ by itself, since it is unable to lend them any support;  and  their  own  solidity  causes  them  as  a  result  of  their  knocking together to vibrate back, to whatever distance their interlinking allows them  to  recoil  from  the  knock.  There  is  no  beginning  to  this  because atoms and the void are eternal. (Ep.  Ep. Hdt. 43-4; cf. Lucr. ii.80-124) That last sentence suggests an economical answer to an obvious question: how did the cosmic buzz of interacting atoms ever get started? It didn't: it's always been like this. Nevertheless, later testimony uniformly attributes  to  Epicurus  a  doctrine  which  is  supposed  precisely,  among  other things, to show how collisions could get started: the notorious swerve. 
Lucretius writes:
When  bodies  are  being  borne  down  by  their  own  weight  straight through the void, at quite uncertain times they veer a little from their 58 They do however allow that colour is a purely emergent property (Lucr. ii.737-841), as are heat and cold (842-64); and no one in their right mind would assume that there are laughing atoms (973-9). 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
502
e x p l a n a t i o n   a n d   c a u s a t i o n
course, just enough to be called a change of motion. If they did not have this  swerve,  everything  would  be  falling  downwards  like  raindrops through the depths of the void, and collisions and impacts among the primary  bodies  would  never  have  arisen,  with  the  result  that  nature would never have created anything. (Lucr. ii.218-24)
The swerve clearly violates (6); and as such was the object of much ancient scorn.  The  fact  that  Democritus  apparently  saw  no  need  of  it,  and  its absence from the epitome of physical doctrines in  Ep. Hdt., perhaps suggests that it is a late edition to the Epicurean physical armoury - and it is a plausible assumption that it owes more to Epicurus' determination to rescue human freedom from the clutches of universal determinism than to any perceived lacuna in the cosmological story. But that is a matter for the next chapter. 
Epicurus' innovation was derided as being ad hoc, explanatorily null, and  a  violation  of  an  intuitively  secure  a  priori  principle.  Whatever Epicurus' reasons for introducing the minimal swerve, and whatever its explanatory shortcomings, we may at least commend him for refusing to be imprisoned within a straitjacket of a prior-ism. The modern, quantum-mechanical overtones of the doctrine are to a large extent adventitious -
but at least Epicurus saw that the question of whether every event has a cause  must,  in  the  last  resort,  be  an  empirical  one  (for  a  suitably  weak sense of 'empirical'). 
For all that, Epicurean causal explanation seems unimpeachably materialistic in its structure. The ultimate constituents of the world, bumping and jostling in the void, are to explain not only macroscopic events (which are  ontologically  parasitic  upon  bodies:  Lucr.  i.64-81),  but  also  macroscopic properties. The Epicureans too think that all causing is corporeal; and the function of the void in physical explanation is precisely to provide a prerequisite cause, or necessary condition, of causal interaction (there could be no motion without void, for example: Lucr. i.370-83). Still, it is important to realize that the engine for Epicurean action is, as it was for the Stoics, a set of internal properties in constant activity. It is the weight of the atoms that makes them fall and keeps them falling. There is no more hint of  any  concept  of inertia in  Epicurus than anywhere else in Greek physics. 
Indeed, Lucretius does not conceptualize the physics of atomic collision as involving analogues to our familiar notions of mass, momentum, and so on. It is not that there will be a transfer of kinetic energy and vector from  one  object  to  another  in  proportion  to  their  relative  masses  and velocities. Rather the striking of the one by the other actualizes the inter-Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t e l e o l o g y   a n d   m e c h a n i s m 503
nal potentiality for motion along a particular vector that the other possesses. Two passages suggest this. In the first, Lucretius is accounting for the unimaginable speed with which the filmy  simulacra ('images') given o◊
from  the  surface  of  objects  can  traverse  distances  as  a  result  of  'a  very slight initial impetus far behind them which launched them and propels them' (Lucr. iv.193-4). In the second, he describes how the motion of the tiny, volatile atoms that make up the mind can bootstrap their way up to produce  animal  movement;  such  a  fact  need  occasion  no  surprise, Lucretius  thinks,  when  we  reflect  that  the  wind  may  drive  a  ship (iv.886-91, 898-906). If this is right, then Epicurus too preserves (contrary to the usual exegesis) much of the underlying conceptual structure we have already seen at work in the Stoics. The atoms move essentially under  their  own  steam,  less  like  the  clattering  billiard-balls  of  modern mechanistic analogy than runners in a relay-race, primed to take o◊ at a touch. 
x Teleology and mechanism
For all that, one huge divergence between the atomists and their opponents remains: their utter rejection of purposive explanation, at least in the realm of cosmology. For Epicurus, the formation of the cosmos is the chance result of random atomic events ('chance' here in a sense quite compatible with determinism, although of course Epicurus was no determinist: the swerve need play no role here at all). Sooner or later, somewhere or other  in  the  temporally  and  spatially  infinite  universe,  a  particular sequence of atomic events will occur that results in the agglomeration of a world,  and  all  that  it  contains.  There  is  no  call  for  the  Stoic-Platonic hypothesis of a benevolent divine organizer, or for the Aristotelian notion of  the  explanatory  primacy  of  macroscopic  form  and  its  nisus  towards actualization. Everything, the Epicureans think, can be explained on the basis of the principles briefly reviewed above:
One mistake . . . is that of supposing that . . . the eyes have been created in order that we might see; that it is in order that we might take lengthy strides that the knees and hips can be flexed above their base of feet . . . 
and hands supplied on either side as servants in order that we could perform whatever acts were needed for living. All other explanations of this type which they o◊er are back to front, products of distorted reasoning. 
For nothing has been engendered in our body in order that we might be able to use it. It is the fact of its being engendered that creates its use. 
(Lucr. iv.23-35)
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
504
e x p l a n a t i o n   a n d   c a u s a t i o n
'They'  are  primarily,  no  doubt,  the  Stoics  -  although  such  creationist teleologies  are  also  Platonic.  And,  albeit  in  a  more  naturalistic  vein, Aristotle took Anaxagoras to task precisely for getting, as he saw it, the direction  of  explanation  the  wrong  way  round:  Anaxagoras  thought humans  were  intelligent  because  they  had  hands;  on  the  contrary,  says Aristotle, nature gives the appropriate tools to those fittest to use them ( Part. An. iv.10.687a7-23). The Epicureans side with Anaxagoras: structure  determines  function,  not  vice  versa.  Lucretius  goes  on  to  hold (iv.836-57)  that  all  bodily  organs  antedate  their  uses  -  in  this  they  are quite distinct from artefacts, which are specifically designed with some purpose in mind. 
Equally, the Epicureans reject out of hand the idea that the world is the product of divine intelligence, and in particular the view that it was created for the benefit of human beings (Lucr. v.156-69). Their gods are far too busy enjoying a life of untroubled blessedness to worry about creating a cosmos simply for human beings to flourish in it (Ep.  Ep.  Hdt.  76-8). 
Here their principal opponents are again the Stoics, who held that God pervaded  and  permeated  the  entire  world  in  the  form  of   pneuma, e◊ectively  its  containing  cause  ( SVF  ii 526,  1027,  1077,  etc.).59
Furthermore, they held that everything in the world served some rational end, much of it being directly for the benefit of human beings - thus notoriously  Chrysippus  thought  bed-bugs  beneficial,  since  they  prevent  us from  idling  in  bed  ( SVF  ii 1163;  cf.  1152).  The  Stoics'  strategy  was  to develop a version of the argument from design in order to defend the concept of a creator-god:
Suppose someone were to bring to Scythia or Britain the orrery recently built by our friend Posidonius which . . . brings about in the sun, the moon, and the five planets e◊ects identical to those brought about day by day and night by night in the heavens. Who in those foreign lands would doubt that the sphere was a product of reason? And yet these people hesitate as to whether the world, from which all things come into being, is itself the product of some kind of accident or necessity or of a divine mind's reason. And they rate Archimedes' achievement in imitating the revolutions of the heavenly sphere higher than nature's in creating them - and that when the original is a vastly more brilliant creation than the copy. (Cic.  ND  ii.88)
And the Stoics ridiculed what they took to be the enormous improbability of the Epicurean story:
59 See above, p. 482. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
l i m i t s   o f   e x p l a n a t i o n :   m u l t i p l e   e x p l a n a t i o n s 505
Does it not deserve amazement on my part that there should be anyone who can persuade himself that certain solid and indivisible bodies travel through the force of their own weight and that by an accidental combination of those bodies a world of the utmost splendour and beauty is created? I do not see why a person who supposes this can happen does not also believe it possible that if countless exemplars of the twenty-one letters . . . were thrown into a container and shaken out onto the ground, they might form a readable copy of the Annals of Ennius. I'm not sure that luck could manage this even to the extent of a single line. (Cic.  ND
ii.93)
Of course, the Epicureans were careful to stress the infinity of space and time, and the inevitability in a suitably long run of all conceivable arrangements of atoms being realized; but there is no doubt that it requires both a  great  confidence  in  the  explanatory  power  of  materialism  as  well  as explanatory  tools  well  beyond  anything  the  Epicureans  developed  to make such an explanation of the persistence and regularity of the world plausible.  And  of  course  even  now,  when  we  have  both  the  confidence born  of  successful  physical  science  and  the  tools,  the  argument  from design dies hard.60
xi The limits of explanation: multiple
explanations
For all their confidence in the explanatory power of atomic physics, the Epicureans did not believe that they could o◊er definitive explanations for every phenomenon; nor did they feel they needed to. For they took extremely seriously the general Hellenistic conception of the philosophical  primacy  of  ethics,  construed  as  the  science  of  the  good  life.  The Epicureans were not, o√cially at least, interested in physics, or science, for its own sake. Atomism is commended as the path to happiness: We hold that to arrive at accurate knowledge of the cause of the most important things is the business of natural science, and that happiness depends on this. (Ep.  Ep. Hdt. 78)
Given  this  point  of  view,  it  is  unsurprising  that  the  Epicureans  were untroubled by what they took to be the impossibility of o◊ering certain, precise, and incontrovertible explanations for a wide range of phenomena 60 Elsewhere I argue that, given the conceptual and evidential resources available to ancient scientists,  some  form  of  directed  teleology  was  indeed  the  most  rational  available  hypothesis  to adopt: see Hankinson 1988a, 1989. For the argument from design see above, pp. 448-51, 464-9. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
506
e x p l a n a t i o n   a n d   c a u s a t i o n
(principally meteorological and seismic). They considered (or at least gave the impression of so doing) that atomism was su√ciently well entrenched for  it  to  be  certain  that  phenomena  like  lightning,  thunder,  and  earthquakes could be explained along atomist lines, and that the ultimate truth about their structure and aetiology would be atomic - but they did not much mind what that truth was in our own world, as long as a possible explanation  fitted  the  data  of  experience.  It  was  enough  to  realize  that earthquakes were not the result of some malevolent deity in order for irrational human fears concerning them to be banished. Or so they pretended to think:
There are also a number of things of which it is not enough to name one cause, but rather many causes, one of which will however be the actual one - just as if you were to see at a distance the dead body of a man, it would be appropriate to list all the causes of death, so as to include the specific cause of his death. For you would not be able to establish that he died by the sword, from cold, from disease, or by poison; yet we know that something of the sort must have happened to him. And similarly in many  other  matters  we  are  in  a  position  to  say  the  same.  (Lucr. 
vi.703-11)
Epicurus,  although  holding  that  on  the  basic  facts  of  physics  'we  must recognize . . . no plurality of causes or contingency' ( Ep. Hdt. 78), none the less continues
But when we come to subjects for special inquiry, there is nothing in the knowledge of risings and settings and solstices and eclipses and things of this kind that contributes to happiness . . . hence if we discover more than  one  cause  that  may  account  for  them  .  .  .  we  need  not  think  our account falls short in accuracy, so far as is necessary to keep us tranquil and content. ( Ep. Hdt. 79-80)
The form, then, of an Epicurean 'explanation' of such phenomena will be disjunctive: x occurs because either E or E or . . . E
1
2
n. At most one of the
E's will actually be the real explanation; but if the account is good enough, one of them must be in some world at some time - and that is enough. 
Epicurus devoted his  Letter to Pythocles  to the consideration of 'celestial and meteorological phenomena',  ta meteo-ra. Reiterating the view that the purpose of physical explanation is to allay fears, Epicurus writes: We do not seek to wrest by force what is impossible, nor to understand all matters equally well, nor make our treatment always as clear as when we deal with human life or explain the general principles of physics, for example that everything consists of bodies and intangible nature, or that Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
l i m i t s   o f   e x p l a n a t i o n :   e m p i r i c i s m 507
the ultimate elements of things are indivisible, or any other proposition which admits only one explanation of the phenomena to be possible. But this is not the case with the things up there ( ta meteo-ra): these admit a multiplicity  of  causes  of  their  coming  to  be  and  explanations  of  their nature consonant with perception. For we must not do science by way of empty  assumptions  and  arbitrary  fiat,  but  as  the  phenomena  demand. 
( Ep. Pyth. 85-7)
All  explanation  starts  with  the  appearances,  the  phenomena:  in  some cases only one explanation is consonant with the sum total of empirical evidence. In that case, the evidence entails the explanation. But in many other matters, things are not so clear-cut: any number of mutually inconsistent explanations account for the phenomena. In the latter cases, we must rest content with disjunctive explanation.61
Epicurus' rejection of a priori 'certainties' (reinforced in the immediately succeeding paragraphs) is refreshing. Nevertheless he will no doubt seem excessively sanguine in his belief that there are any cases of uniquely entailed  explanations,  a  belief  which  is  the  target  of  the  second  of  the Pyrrhonist Aenesidemus' eight modes against the aetiologists.62 In this sense, Epicurus was only partly an empiricist, and only some of the time. 
xii The limits of explanation: empiricism
For  a  more  full-blooded  empirical  attitude  to  the  business  of  causation and explanation, we need to turn to the medical schools, indeed principally to the school known as the Empiricists.63 But it is perhaps appropriate  to  begin  with  a  fragment  of  another,  earlier  doctor,  Diocles  of Carystus:
(1)  Those  who  think  that  one  should  state  a  cause  in  every  case  do  not appear to understand first that it is not always necessary to do so from a practical point of view, and second that many things which exist are somehow by their nature akin to principles, so that they cannot be given a causal  account.  (2)  Furthermore,  they  sometimes  err  in  assuming  what  is 61 For actual examples of the multiple explanation strategy, see  Ep. Pyth. 92-3 (heavenly motions: Lucr. v.509-33); 94-6 (the phases, illumination, and face of the moon, eclipses: Lucr. v.705-70); 99-104  (clouds,  rain,  thunder,  lightning:  Lucr.  vi.96-534);  and  105-6  (earthquakes:  Lucr. 
vi.535-607).  On  precedents  in  Theophrastus  (and  Aristotle)  and  multiple  causation  itself  see Mansfeld 1992b and 1994a. 
62 Aenesidemus is, unfortunately, beyond the remit of this study; the eight modes are of particular interest, and seem to be directed particularly against Epicurean notions of explanation. The second  mode  shows  that  frequently  when  there  is  an  abundance  of  ways  of  assigning  an explanation to what is under investigation, some of them account for it in one way only (S.E.  PH
i.181). 
63 See below, pp. 511, 606-8. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
508
e x p l a n a t i o n   a n d   c a u s a t i o n
unknown, disputed, and implausible, thinking that they have adequately given the cause. (3) You should disregard people who aetiologize in this manner, and who think that one should state a cause for everything; (4) you should rather rely upon things which have been excogitated over a long period on the basis of experience ( empeiria); (5) and you should seek a cause for contingent things when that is likely to make what you say about them more understandable and more believable. (Diocles fr. 112 W) Diocles  was  a  rough  contemporary  of  Aristotle's  (and  hence  just about falls  within  the  scope  of  this  study):  and  this,  the   Große Methodenfragment,64 seems to betray Aristotle's influence.65 At the beginning of  Posterior Analytics, Aristotle stresses that first principles, the  archai or axioms of a science, cannot be proved or demonstrated, and hence cannot  be  given  an  explanation  ( APo.  i.2.71b26-33;  3.72b19-25)  -  indeed, explanation has got to terminate somewhere (cf.  Metaph. Γ 4.1006a6-9) in prior and unexplainable premisses in order to avoid infinite regress or circularity ( APo. i.3). 
But Diocles' concerns are not merely theoretical. Rather he holds it to be of no practical use to try and aetiologize everything: for ordinary medical purposes explanation must stop somewhere. Neither does he say that the  things  to  be  left  unexplained  actually  are  first  principles,  only  that they are akin to them - and his point may be that some things must be accepted for pragmatic reasons as basic, even if they may not in fact be so. 
Diocles may well be the first explicitly to point out the pitfalls of explanatory  dogmatism,  while  echoing  the  anti-theoretical  empiricism  of  the Hippocratic treatise  On Ancient Medicine; he even goes so far as to suggest that aetiologizing serves a purely rhetorical function. 
Erasistratus apparently went further still, refusing to allow that antecedent  causes  were  genuine  causes  on  the  grounds  that  they  were  not su√cient  for  their  e◊ects.  Galen  devotes  much  of   CP  to  refuting  his
'sophism' to the e◊ect that if something really is a cause of something else, it should invariably produce it: but antecedent causes, being at best necessary  conditions  of  the  outcomes  to  which  they  are  antecedent,  cannot meet this criterion. 
It was universally allowed that the alleged antecedent causes of fever (overheating, chilling, excessive eating, drinking, and sexual indulgence, to name but a few) were not invariably correlated with their e◊ects: in the example Galen cites on Erasistratus' behalf ( CP  ii.11), of a multitude of 64 So labelled by Wellmann 1901. 
65 Indeed, he has sometimes been portrayed as a straightforward Aristotelian; but this is certainly wrong, as Frede among others has noted (Waltzer and Frede 1985, xxviii). 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
l i m i t s   o f   e x p l a n a t i o n :   e m p i r i c i s m 509
people watching the same theatrical performance on a sweltering afternoon (and hence  ex hypothesi  subjected to the same causal influences), only four  su◊er  at  all  and  of  them  only  one  goes  on  to  develop  a  full-blown fever - hence, Erasistratus infers, the excessive heat cannot be implicated in  the  disease:  the  vast  majority  were  una◊ected.  Galen  accuses Erasistratus and his followers of captiousness:
Thus the sophists find reasons for their arguments that attempt to show that,  even  if  on  some  occasion  these  things  [sc.  antecedent  heat,  cold, etc.] harm weak bodies, not even then can they properly be called causes. 
For if indeed they do act because of their own internal nature, and this action derives from themselves, then they must be seen to have an e◊ect at all times. (Gal.  CP  i.9-10; cf. Celsus  Med. Pr.  54) Later, Galen quotes Erasistratus directly:
Most people, both now and in the past, have sought the causes of fevers, trying to ascertain and learn from the sick whether the illness has its origin in being chilled or exhausted or repletion, or some other cause of this kind; but this kind of inquiry into the causes of diseases yields results neither true nor useful. For if cold were a cause of fever, then those who have been chilled the more should su◊er the greater fever. But this is not what  happens:  rather  there  are  some  who  have  faced  extreme  danger from freezing, and who when rescued have remained una◊ected by fever
. . . [while] many people who experience far worse exhaustion and repletion than that which coincides with fever in some others yet escape the illness. (Erasistratus, in Gal.  CP  viii.102-3; cf. xi.141-4; xiii.166-8) Unsurprisingly,  Sextus  makes  use  of  similar  arguments  ( M  ix.242-3). 
Thus Erasistratus apparently denies causal status to anything which fails to meet these stringent requirements. 
It is not, however, clear whether this amounts to much more than a terminological  injunction:  reserve  the  term  'cause'  for  the  real  (i.e.  proximate and determining) cause of the event in question, a position clearly not equivalent to the view that no event, unless constantly conjoined with some other, can have any causal relevance to it. Galen does indeed try to pin the latter on Erasistratus (and such would be the natural interpretation of Celsus' brief notice); but he also accuses him of indulging in verbal quibbles, and of treating as substantial mere verbal disagreements. At all events, it is by no means apparent that Erasistratus did indeed deny all causal  relevance  to  non-necessitating  antecedents  (although  for  all  that Galen may of course be right that he was confused and inconsistent on this score). 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
510
e x p l a n a t i o n   a n d   c a u s a t i o n
In fact he is said to have allowed that over-eating and exhaustion are implicated in the triggering of disease, although he apparently refused to grant them the title of causes.66 At all events, Galen ( CP  xiv.174) attributes to him an aetiology of disease in which excessive ingestion of food (a standard Galenic antecedent cause) brings about  ple-tho-ra, which in turn results in the compression of blood at the valves between vein and artery, which then forces blood through the valves into the arteries (where, on Erasistratean  pathology,  it  should  not  normally  be),  which  generates fever. Only the last stage (the preternatural transfusion of blood) is actually  called  a  'cause'  -  but  it  is  hard  to  see  how  Erasistratus  could  have denied the causal import of the earlier steps in the process, even if he had wanted to. 
On the other hand, the passages quoted above seem to be substantial in import: heat and cold cannot be causal factors, because they do not determine  their  outcomes.  And  Erasistratus  may  have  wished  to  distinguish between the relations that held (whatever they might be) in the overheating case, and the sequence of events sketched above that are consequent upon  over-eating;  in  the  latter  case  it  seems  plausible  to  think  that  the sequence will play out to its pathological conclusion unless something or someone intervenes to prevent it. But even that is not true for the former case - no intervention is necessary at all to prevent most of the theatre-goers  coming  down  with  fever:  the  causal  connection,  then,  (if  any) between  the  afternoon  sun  and  the  evening  fever  is  far  more  etiolated. 
Erasistratus may have a substantial point after all. 
But even so, Galen counters by maintaining that the overheating can still be a cause of the fever in a particular case: it is part of the set of conditions  which,  along  with  the  patient's  particular  susceptibilities  (which must be specified in a non-circular manner if the account is to have any substance to it), jointly account for his illness. Of course, it is not the sole cause  of  the  fever,  which  accounts  for  the  fact  that  not  everyone  succumbs: some people are more constitutionally prone to it than others ( CP
viii.10 0; x.126; xiii.167). 
Herophilus, Erasistratus' great contemporary, is equally worried about causal explanation: and he appears to have inherited a Dioclean circumspection about the matter. Unlike Erasistratus, who seems only to have attacked the notion of causal antecedence (Gal.  CP  xiii.164), Herophilus'
66 Garofalo 1988, 30 holds that Erasistratus called them 'origins' ( archai) of disease:  Ven. Sect. Er. 
 Rom. xi.236-7;  Ven. Sect. Er. xi.155; but it seems rather that Erasistratus reserved the term  arche-
for the condition of  ple-tho-ra, or congestion of the veins, which is consequent upon them. See further Garofalo 1988, 29-31. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
l i m i t s   o f   e x p l a n a t i o n :   e m p i r i c i s m 511
interests were more general. Two fragments exhibit his aetiological caution:
Whether or not there is a cause is by nature undiscoverable; but in my opinion I believe I am chilled, warmed and filled with food and drink. 
(Herophilus, in Gal.  CP  xvi.198)
Some, such as Herophilus, accept causes 'on the basis of a hypothesis'. 
(Gal.  CP  xiii.162)
The  interpretation  of  these  fragments  is  controversial:67 but  I  take Herophilus to be accepting causal explanations not because they are in any objective sense probable, but rather because they o◊er a heuristically useful and rationally satisfying model for the physical and physiological world. 
The  (indirect)  heirs  to  this  tradition  were  the  Empiricist  doctors.68
Unlike their opponents the Rationalists, who attempted to provide some theoretical  underpinning  for  their  practice,  Empiricists  held  that  medicine consisted simply of repeated observations of what worked and what didn't  in  repeated,  relevantly  similar  conditions.  Personal  experience could  be  supplemented,  subject  to  some  fairly  rigorous  controls,  by  an appeal to the writings of others, and (or so at least some allowed) by appeal to a type of analogical reasoning, the so-called 'transition to the similar'. 
In matters concerning explanation, they were quite prepared to take account of antecedent causes (Gal.  SI  i 73), e.g. the bite of a mad dog in the case of rabies ( SI  i 88). The Empiricist notes that past cases of bites where the dog was mad di◊ered from those in which the dog seemed sane and required di◊erent treatment.69 By contrast, Rationalist doctors will construct a theory explaining the connection between the dog's mental state and the patient's physical condition in terms of how the dog's bite can alter  his  internal  constitution  (which,  being  intrinsically  unobservable, plays no role in Empiricist theory). Essentially the Empiricists build up, on the basis of suitably supplemented experience, a picture of which phenomena tend to be associated with which. They have no interest in the deep reasons (if any) why they do so. Insofar as they refer to causes they do so  in  a  non-theoretical  proto-Humean  fashion,  rigorously  avoiding  any talk of occult powers. 
67 See von Staden 1989, ad loc.; Hankinson 1990a. 
68 For accounts of the rise and development of the Empiricist school of medicine, see Frede 1987b, 1988, 1990, and Matthen 1988a. 
69 Their practice thus contrasts sharply, or at least so Galen alleges, with that of the Methodical school, who simply treat such bites as cases of wounds and bandage them up ( SI  i 88-9). For the Methodists and their attitude to causes, see Frede 1982; and Lloyd 1983, 188-20 0. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
512
e x p l a n a t i o n   a n d   c a u s a t i o n
Here we must confront an anomaly. Galen remarks that Empiricists 'do not hesitate to ask for the so-called antecedent cause' ( SI  i 74; cf.  Med. Exp. 
24; Celsus  Med. Pr. 27); yet in  CP  he claims that the Empiricists 'doubt whether there are causes or not' (xiii.162), while later writing that Even those doctors from the Empirical school, who above all others proclaim things in accordance with common sense, were so overcome by the sophism as to be moved to doubt concerning antecedent causes. (Gal.  CP
xiii.170)70
The  apparent  inconsistency  evaporates  with  an  understanding  of  the sense in which the Empiricist accepts antecedent causes. He does so not on the basis of any causal theory of how the dog's bite induces rabies: he simply  knows  that  rabies  follows  bites  of  that  sort.  That  is  simply  to observe an empirical connection, not to postulate some arcane underlying productive  mechanism,  as  the  Rationalist  does.  Rationalist  and Empiricist, then, do not disagree about the evident facts; rather they part company on their proper interpretation. Thus an Empiricist accepts antecedent  causes  as  signs  while  rejecting  any  account  of  how  they  might operate. 
Moreover, according to Galen ( SI  i 72-3), good Rationalists and good Empiricists  generally  agree  about  diagnosis  and  therapy.  They  di◊er  in that the Rationalist is 'led by the nature of the matter', and believes that a theory of things' underlying physical structures and interactions explains why  the  therapies  work.  The  Empiricist  has  no  such  pretensions:  his explanations are epistemic rather than metaphysical in nature. Thus he can account for his adoption of a certain practice and what gives him (limited) confidence in it; but he will be quite agnostic about the structure of reality, if any, in virtue of which his procedures work.71
70 For a full discussion, see Hankinson 1987b. The 'sophism' is Erasistratus' argument against non-su√cient causes (above, p. 509). 
71 See Matthen 1988a, for a development of the view that the fundamental distinction between Empiricist and Dogmatist is ontological. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
15
Determinism and indeterminism
r .   j .   h a n k i n s o n
i The origins of the question
The  notion  of  universal  causation  was  ubiquitous  in  later  antiquity;  to loosen those ties threatened the irruption of chaos. How could the evident  continuity  and  regularity  of  the  world  survive  the  intervention  of casual  elements  into  its  structure?  Still,  there  is  a  clear  distinction,  one exploited by the Epicureans, between the assertion of a universal principle of causation and any determinism. It is one thing to accept that every event is caused, quite another to believe that the nature and sequence of all events is rigidly fixed for all eternity. The latter belief forms the core of any determinism - and it is its prima-facie implausibility, along with what are taken to be its unacceptable consequences (for human freedom, for the concept of responsibility), that lays it open to attack. 
The  origins  of  the  problem  in  the  Greek  world  were  not,  however, metaphysical.  The  Sophistic  movement  of  the  late  fifth  century  bc was particularly  interested  in  new  forms  of  forensic  argument,  especially defence argument. Gorgias'  Helen  is a case in point: Helen of Troy is innocent  of  adultery,  he  argues,  because  she  did  what  she  did  either  under physical  compulsion,  or  under  the  influence  of  love,  or  at  the  whim  of some god, or persuaded by arguments. In none of these eventualities can she be held responsible for her actions, since in all of them she is compelled  by  some  external  force;  the  list  is  exhaustive;  hence  she  is  not responsible for what she did. Gorgias' rhetorical exercise is not serious philosophy, but it raises serious philosophical points. If our actions are indeed conditioned by factors that lie outside our control, how can we reasonably  be  held  responsible  for  what  we  do?  Society  is,  indeed,  to blame: Gorgias is the Ur-progenitor of hard determinism. 
Aristotle saw the problem with characteristic clarity. At the beginning of Book iii of his  Nicomachean Ethics, he wrote:
Since ethical virtue is concerned with emotions and actions, and those which are voluntary are praised or blamed, while those which are invol-
[513]
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
514
d e t e r m i n i s m   a n d   i n d e t e r m i n i s m
untary receive pardon and sometimes pity as well, students of ethical virtue  must  presumably  determine  the  limits  of  the  voluntary  and  the involuntary  .  .  .  Actions  are  regarded  as  involuntary  when  performed under compulsion or through ignorance. ( EN  iii.1.1109b30-1110a1) And he was well aware of the dangers that attended any attempt to mitigate responsibility by blaming factors outside the agent's control: If it were argued that pleasurable and admirable things have a compulsive e◊ect (because they bring external pressure to bear on us), it would make all acts compulsory, since every act of every agent is done for the sake of such objects . . . It is absurd for the agent to lay blame on the external factors and not upon himself for falling easy prey to them, and to attribute his fine acts to himself, but his disgraceful ones to the attractions  of  pleasure.  It  seems  reasonable,  then,  that  an  act  is  compulsory only when its originating cause is external, and receives no contribution from the person under compulsion. ( EN  iii.1.1110b9-17) Aristotle holds that we are responsible for what we do just in case the origin of the action is within us (he has a rather literal notion of coercion); if we contribute at all to it, then we are responsible for it. It is, fundamentally, in virtue of the state of our characters that we are praised or blamed; and it is insofar as we act on the basis of choice, or after deliberation, that we are morally responsible for what we do. When we make a choice, we choose to perform or refrain from performing some action - that choice is up to us, the outcome of our desires, beliefs, and deliberations. We desire a  particular  end,  and  deliberate  about  and  select  means  to  that  end; actions of this sort are performed in accordance with choice and are thus voluntary: 'therefore virtue is 'up to us' ( eph' he-min)' ( EN  iii.5.1113b3-6). 
Helen may have been persuaded by arguments - but it was she who was so persuaded: Penelope did not succumb. Or she may have been swept away by powerful emotions and desires - but she shouldn't have been: so much the  worse  for  her  morals.  Aristotle  may  accept  Gorgias'  disjunction  of alternatives as exhaustive - he can still resist the conclusion that Helen's action was not her fault. 
Aristotle starts from the obvious fact of moral life that we do hold people, including ourselves, responsible for what they do; otherwise we could not legitimately praise or blame them. But if praise and blame are legitimate, some things must be up to us ( eph' he-min). He is not blind to the di√culties of the picture he tries to develop. We are responsible for our actions insofar as they derive from our choices, made in line with our preferences - and hence derivatively because they are the products of our char-Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   o r i g i n s   o f   t h e   q u e s t i o n 515
acters.  It  is  because  I  am  weak-willed  that  I  eat  another  danish  pastry when you, exercising self-control, refrain from so doing. But as Aristotle clearly saw, it is only if we are further responsible for our states of character  themselves  that  we  can  be  held  to  account  in  any  strong  sense  for actions performed as a result of them. He scouts a possible objection: Everyone aims at what seems to him to be good, but over this appearance he has no control. How the end appears to each individual depends on the nature of his character, whatever this may be. So if the individual is in a  way  responsible  for  his  state  of  character  he  will  also  be  in  a  way responsible for his view of what is good; but if he is not responsible for the  former,  then  no  wrongdoer  is  responsible  for  doing  wrong.  ( EN
iii.5.1114a31-b4)
Perhaps virtuousness is simply a matter of natural endowment, or proper upbringing - but neither of these seem to be in any obvious sense up to the individual in question. The problem is occasioned by the transitivity of  responsibility.  Suppose  some  individual  I's  action  A  is  reasonably pinned on his character C - nevertheless, if we can trace responsibility for C to some set of factors F, where F are outside I's control, then F, and not I, are truly responsible for A. That argument has a certain plausibility to it, and it re-opens Helen's defence. 
Central to Aristotle's account (and many others) of human responsibility is the notion of choice. We are free, and hence responsible, just insofar as we can choose to do what we do. If it can be shown that this choice is a chimaera, then human freedom may turn out to be equally illusory. And one way of going about doing that is by arguing for determinism. If the entire  course  of  the  universe  is  ineluctably  mapped  out  in  advance,  its unfolding being merely the working out of an inevitable fate, there seems little room for genuine human agency at all. Rather we are all puppets of the ultimate causal forces of the universe, and our autonomy is mere illusion. 
That inference, from the ineluctability of fate to the impossibility of human  freedom,  has  been  deployed  by  determinist  and  indeterminist alike,  although  from  di◊erent  directions.  The  unthinkability  of human bondage has frequently formed the basis of an argument to indeterminism via a  modus tollens  of that implication - that strategy was pursued by the Epicureans. Conversely, the rationally compelling nature of the argument for universal causation has sometimes pushed people in the other direction: Gorgias is only the first of many. Others, most famously Hume,  have  tried  to  reconcile  some  concept  of  human  freedom  with Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
516
d e t e r m i n i s m   a n d   i n d e t e r m i n i s m
determinism. That was Chrysippus' line. But first of all another source for the debate merits brief consideration. 
ii Logic and contingency
In  another  famous  passage  ( Int.  9),  Aristotle  discusses  the  question  of whether singular propositions about the future have determinate truth values.1 Suppose it is fine today; surely then it was true yesterday to say that it would be fine today - and the proposition 'it will be fine tomorrow'
was true yesterday. More than that: it was true 10,0 0 0 years ago, indeed it has been true since the dawn of time. But if it is now true (let us say) that there will (to use Aristotle's famous example) be a sea-battle tomorrow, surely it is now unavoidable that there will be such a battle? And similarly with the most contingent-seeming propositions:
Consequently it is necessary that either the a√rmation or the denial [of a certain proposition] be true. Nothing then will either be or come to be by  chance  or  contingently  .  .  .  everything  will  be  of  necessity  and  not contingent ( Int. 9.18a6-8)
and
these and other bizarre consequences follow, if at least we assume that of every a√rmation and denial . . . of contradictory opposites one must be true and the other false: there can be no contingency in things that come to be, and everything that is and comes to be does so of necessity. ( Int. 
9.18b26-31)
However,  Aristotle  goes  on  to  reject  this  as  being  plainly  inconsistent with  our  experience  that  human  deliberation  is  a  source  of  events  ( Int. 
9.19a7). 
Aristotle's argument rests in part on the thesis that
(T1) the past is necessary. 
What's done cannot be undone: and if we gloss 'necessary' as 'fixed, unalterable', then (T1) is attractive. It is surely one of the fundamental temporal distinctions that future events, unlike past ones, can be a◊ected and altered by what is done now. But if that is right, it seems reasonable to think, as Aristotle apparently did, that the status of propositions about the future should be di◊erent from that of propositions about the past, 1 At least, this is the most usual interpretation of what he is doing; a rival account was urged by G. 
E. M. Anscombe (Anscombe 1956), to the e◊ect that what was at issue was not future  truth  but future  necessity. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   h e l l e n i s t i c   r e s p o n s e 517
and not merely for epistemic reasons (not merely, that is, because in the nature of things we can know less about the future than the past). The past is determinate, hence propositions about it are necessarily true. The future is not, and so utterances referring to it must at best be contingently true if they are true at all.2
That argument is seductive - it seduced Epicurus. But it is won at the price  of  abandoning  the  semantic  principle  of  bivalence,  at  least  in  its most general form. And there is something to be said for bivalence, most obviously that it seems guaranteed by the logic of negation. Surely, if a proposition makes sense it must be either true or false? And in any case, are we not merely dealing with di◊erently-tensed and indexed versions of the same proposition in the case of today's fine weather? It seems at best arbitrary to say that, even if it is fine today, yesterday's accurate weather-forecaster wasn't telling the truth. But if he was, then it was already going to be fine today yesterday - and that, at least for Aristotle, entails multiple absurdities. That sequence of argument is perhaps confused - but its confusions are not trivial (it took a Carneades to expose them), and they still have the power to perplex. 
On the basis of (T1), and the further (also Aristotelian) thesis that (T2) an impossibility cannot follow from a possibility, 
Diodorus Cronus attempted to do away with contingency altogether by way of his celebrated Master argument (ii.1).3 Whatever its precise form there is no doubt that it was of enormous influence on succeeding generations of philosophers, and its move from logic to metaphysics appears to have been widely accepted as valid. 
iii The Hellenistic response
The  Epicureans  countered  by  holding  that  the  principle  of  bivalence failed  for  future  contingents:  they  were  neither  true  nor  false  prior  to their being actualized, and hence  a fortiori  were not either necessarily true or impossible (Cic.  Fat. 21). Furthermore, the apparatus of the swerve is introduced  explicitly,  Cicero  says,  to  provide  a  physical,  indeterminist 2 This is inadequately crude as it stands - no indeterminist need think that  all  propositions about the future are undetermined: 'in 10 0 years I shall be dead' seems about as necessary (causally speaking) as anything else. For Aristotle, there are certain truths about natural kinds which are dictated by the structure of the kind itself - these can be given a future tense, but they are no less settled for all that. Yet there are indefinitely many things about my death which are, on this view, undetermined at the present time. Its date, its place, its mode, and so on. 
3 See above, pp. 88-92. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
518
d e t e r m i n i s m   a n d   i n d e t e r m i n i s m
basis for the rejection of bivalence which is taken to be a necessary concomitant of the maintenance of human freedom:
Epicurus introduced this theory [i.e. of the swerve] because of his fear lest,  if  the  atom  was  always  carried  along  by  its  natural  and  necessary gravity, no freedom would be left for us, since the mind will move under compulsion from the atoms. (Cic.  Fat. 23)4
But the Epicureans' attempt to rescue freedom along with contingency has its price. They must reject bivalence; and they are forced to compromise the clean lines of their physical theory by introducing the minimal atomic swerve. Chrysippus and the Stoics, on the other hand, accepted bivalence,  since  they  could  not  see  how  a  proposition  could  fail  to  be either true or false - and as a result they felt themselves forced to accept a version of determinism. Both Epicureans and Stoics, then, accept the following theses:
(T3) if truths are timeless (or eternal), then if a proposition p is true at any time, p is true at all times; 
and
(T4) if p is true at all times, then p is necessary (in the sense of its being determined). 
The Stoics accepted the timelessness of truth,5 and hence the determination of all truths; the Epicureans discountenanced the determination of all truths, and hence rejected their timelessness, as well as bivalence. But rejecting  bivalence  is  a  tricky  business.  After  all,  surely  even  if  Caesar might have escaped death at the hands of the conspirators, the claim that he  will  not  be  murdered  is  actually  false  whenever  uttered  prior  to  the Ides of March. If Teiresias or Elijah had said, centuries earlier, 'Caesar will be  murdered  on  the  Ides  of  March',  they  would  have  been  telling  the truth. One does not even need anything as strong as (T1) to do the trick here: past truth alone will do. On the other hand, the Stoics have a di√cult 4 This translation (and subsequent ones) follows those of Long and Sedley 1987, vol. i, 102-7. For the swerve also see above, pp. 501-2. 
5 I should note here that I do  not  mean to imply that for the Stoics the proper unit of fundamental semantic appraisal was a timeless proposition construed in the manner of contemporary classical  logic.  See  above,  pp.  95-6.  On  the  contrary,  the  Stoics,  in  common  with  other  ancient semanticists,  held  that  non-indexed  sentences  were  the  basic  truth-bearers,  and  hence  that
'propositions' such as 'it is fine' may change their truth-value. But that is irrelevant to the point at issue, which is whether or not an indexed 'proposition' ('it is [tenseless] fine at spatio-temporal region  S') is such as to be always true if true at all - the Stoics hold that it is: and in  that sense their propositions are timeless. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   h e l l e n i s t i c   r e s p o n s e 519
time  of  it  explaining  how  truths  can  be  determined  without  being  (in some sense) necessary. 
It is one of the great achievements of the Academic sceptic Carneades to see that this dilemma is not forced upon us. We may distinguish6 between Causal  Determinism  (CD:  the  thesis  that  each  event  is  the  ineluctable product  of  antecedent  causes);  Logical  Determinism  (LD:  if  an  event  is going  to  happen  it  is  already  true  that  it  will  happen);  and  Epistemic Determinism  (ED:  if  it  is  known  that  an  event  will  happen,  then  that event cannot fail to occur).7 The Stoics rely on the view that if a future proposition  is  now  true  there  must  be  some  truth-maker  for  it  in  the world now: it must already be true that it is unavoidable. But as Carneades showed, that is a mistake. LD does not entail CD. For any future contingent proposition, either it or its contradictory is true. But it is not true necessarily in virtue of anything in the world now; rather it will be made true by the event as it turns out:
The  truth  of  propositions  like  'Cato  will  come  into  the  Senate'  is brought about by contingent causes, not by causes bound up in nature and the world. And yet that something will come about, when true, is as immutable as the truth that something has come about. (Cic.  Fat. 28) If it is now true that I shall die at sea, then nothing I can now do will alter that truth. But does that mean I am fated to die at sea? No: because it is only true that I shall die at sea if as a matter of fact I now do nothing to prevent it, and as a matter of fact act in such a way that eventually leads to my maritime death. If I prevent my own watery demise, then it will never have been true that I was going to die at sea. The assimilation of LD to CD
rests on a straightforward mistake; CD entails LD - but not vice versa, as both Stoics and Epicureans believed. As regards ED, Carneades holds that it entails CD (and hence LD); and so, if CD is false, ED must be too: That is why Carneades used to say that not even Apollo could tell the future apart from things whose causes were embodied in nature in such a way as to render their coming about necessary. For by inspecting what could even the god himself tell that Marcellus . . . would die at sea? This was something that was true from eternity but did not have causes working to bring it about. (Cic.  Fat. 32-3)
That is, I think, a mistake: it is logically possible that one might know that some future event will occur, and yet it need not be the case that the event 6 With Long and Sedley 1987, vol. i, 466. 
7 Sorabji (1980a) discusses these categories (although not under these names) and the relations that hold between them, see especially chs. 1-3; also see Sorabji 1980b. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
520
d e t e r m i n i s m   a n d   i n d e t e r m i n i s m
is causally determined at the time of knowledge. Perhaps one can simply see the map of time laid out before one, as it were; perhaps the fact of the later event actually causes (or is part of the cause of ) my current knowledge  of  it,  even  though  it  has  not  yet  occurred  and  is  not  yet  causally determined. And theologians have argued that God may know how we are going to choose, and hence whether we are doomed to damnation or are saved, without that entailing that our choices are unfree, even for a non-compatibilist sense of freedom. 
But even if such possibilities are logically open, they are exotic suppositions, and nothing in our experience gives us any reason to suppose that they are true. Furthermore, it seems clearly to be the case that if ED holds then the future events which are within its grip are in some sense already fixed, and if they have already been fixed it surely does follow that nothing can now be done to prevent them. This does not, perhaps, entail that they are causally determined; but it does entail that they are determined, and that fact alone may be enough to undermine any robust notion of freedom. Here is Carneades' argument, as reported by Cicero:
(1) If all things come about through antecedent causes, all things come about through the interconnection in a natural chain. (2) If that is so, all things are the product of necessity. (3) If that is true, nothing is in our power. (4) But there is something in our power. (5) But if all things come about through fate, all things come about through antecedent causes. (6) Therefore it is not the case that whatever happens happens through fate. 
(Cic.  Fat. 31)
The Stoics accept (5) and (1); they reject (2), but Carneades is surely right, as we have seen, to see that they are committed to it at least in a sense strong enough to cast doubt on the view that human agents are anything more than instrumental causes of their actions, and hence (3) will follow, at least for a strongsense of 'in our power'. (4) is simply a bald assertion: no argument is o◊ered for it. Perhaps, like Dr Johnson, Carneades relies on the view that
'all experience is for it'; perhaps he simply takes the Stoics to be committed to it. At all events, (4), alongwith the other premisses, clearly entails (6). 
Here we should turn to another Carneadean argument from Cicero's De  fato.  In  order  to  counter  arguments  like  that  of  (1)-(6)  above,  the Epicureans  felt  it  necessary  to  introduce  the  atomic  swerve,  a  sudden, unpredictable, uncaused quantum movement in atomic motion, in order to  account,  among  other  things,  for  human  freedom  (iv.3).8 Carneades 8 'Quantum' is more than mere metaphor here; the evidence suggests that the swerve involves the minimal possible divergence from the atom's previous trajectory. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   h e l l e n i s t i c   r e s p o n s e 521
pointed out that the swerve was superfluous to the Epicureans' requirements:
A more penetrating line was taken by Carneades, who showed that the Epicureans  could  defend  their  case  without  this  fictitious  swerve.  For since they taught that a certain voluntary motion of the mind was possible,  a  defence  of  that  doctrine  was  preferable  to  introducing  the swerve, especially as they could not discover its cause. And by defending it they could easily stand up to Chrysippus. For by conceding that there is  no  motion  without  a  cause,  they  would  not  be  conceding  that  all events  were  the  results  of  antecedent  causes.  For  our  volition  has  no external antecedent causes. (Cic.  Fat. 23)
If we say someone acts without a cause, Carneades continues, we mean only without external causes: their volitions still cause their actions. But their volitions are not themselves caused. Hence the Epicureans can avoid uncaused events (at least if volitions are not events), with all the problems that they entail, and still reject universal determinism, and hence support freedom. Carneades holds that the Epicureans can admit the truth of (7) no event occurs causelessly
and so avoid 'incurring the scorn of the natural philosophers' (Cic.  Fat. 
25),9 and yet still hold that actions are events and are caused, since (8) actions are caused by the will; 
but the volitions themselves are not caused, at least not by anything external to us. This line of argument requires that either the volitions themselves, or what causes them, are not themselves events (if events must have antecedent,  and  hence  independent,  causes);  'pure  acts  of  the  will',  or something  of  the  sort,  are  supposed  in  some  sense  to  be  self-caused, brought about by their own internal nature, in just the same way as atoms fall (on the Epicurean account) because of their intrinsic weight. 
There are obscurities in this doctrine, and it will convince no Humean, wedded to the  necessary distinctness  of cause and e◊ect. And there are di√culties with reconciling the notion of the human will as a sort of self-starting  mechanism  with  the  evident  fact,  noted  by  Chrysippus,  that external influences are at the very least necessary conditions of our having acts of the will at all.10 The following argument suggests itself: if autonomy involves having control over one's actions, then the will of the autonomous agent must be su√cient for those actions. But that conflicts with 9 See above, p. 502. 
10  See below, pp. 531-4 and 577-80. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
522
d e t e r m i n i s m   a n d   i n d e t e r m i n i s m
the  admission  that  externals  are  necessary  conditions  for  the  action (except on the absurd supposition that the act of will is itself a su√cient condition  for  the  presence  of  external  conditions).  However,  given  the notion of causation canvassed in the previous chapter, this need not be the problem it appears to be; when the external object impinges, it sets the process in motion - but it is the volition itself that keeps it going. This will be developed later on. 
iv The Epicurean position
So much for the logical argument designed to show that the principle of bivalence  entails  determinism.  Even  if  that  argument  fails,  there  is  still work to be done for the anti-determinist. The grip of the principle that every event must have a cause was a strong one - and provided that the principle  is  interpreted  strongly  such  that  every  event  has  a  specific cause,11 determinism,  with  all  that  it  entails,  seems  unavoidable. 
Causation will become assimilated to necessitation.12 Certainly there is reason to believe that Aristotle did not think of his causes as invariably necessitating:  if  A  is  only  for  the  most  part  causally  correlated  with  B, none the less there is nothing amiss in saying that A causes B, although it does not necessitate it: for to say that A necessitated B, it would have to be the case that A-type events were invariably followed by B-type events. But even if that is the case, it still leaves wide open the question of whether events  (considered  as  individual  tokens,  and  not  under  some  particular generic and allegedly explanatory description) are uniquely determined by antecedent circumstances - and here the evidence is far more equivocal. 
So  if  you  think  that  universal  causation  entails  determinism,  while determinism is incompatible with human freedom, yet you also think that human freedom is an incontrovertible datum of ordinary experience, then you will be bound to deny universal causation. And that is precisely the path  Epicurus  and  his  followers  took.  Carneades,  as  Cic.  Fat.  23  above demonstrates,  clearly  thought  that  the  Epicureans  solved  nothing  simply by introducing unpredictable swerves - randomness is not the form of human freedom; and such views have frequently surfaced in the succeeding debate. If my actions are detached from the fetters of necessity at the expense of making them simply random, it is hard to see what concept of 11 See above, p. 481 (T1*). 
12 There have been modern attempts to deny the link between the two, and equally some modern commentators, notably Sorabji 1980a and 1980b, wish to ascribe such a denial to the ancients. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   e p i c u r e a n   p o s i t i o n
523
freedom can be embodied thereby. We surely do not think of ourselves being  free  just  insofar  as  we  are  loose  cannons,  firing  uncontrollably. 
Indeed,  an  influential  concept  of  human  freedom,  one  endorsed  in di◊erent ways by the Stoics, the early Christians, and Galen, has it precisely that human freedom involves self-control, and hence regularity in behaviour. Moreover, even if volitions may be thought of as possessing causal e√cacy which is in some way independent of, or at least not reducible  to,  the  sum  of  the  atomic  motions,  it  is  not  clear  why  the  atoms should need to be able to swerve: all that is necessary is that acts of the will can deflect them from their normal trajectories, as Carneades saw. 
However, Epicurus may not have thought the swerve to be constitutive of human freedom. Recently, David Sedley has argued13 that the function of the swerve is simply to allow for acts of volition: that every swerve is of its nature uncaused, is an unjustified inference of Epicureanism's opponents. Rather, the atoms' ability to be deflected allows volition a toehold into causal e√cacy, since the will can now actually a◊ect the mechanical course of atomic events.14 To say (in the case of volitions at least) that the atoms  swerve  is  simply  to  say  that  their  motions  are  not  exhaustively determined  by  the  force,  momentum,  shape  and  velocity  of  the  atoms themselves, that is by their intrinsic, essential properties. This is not of course to say that all the swerves are caused by volitions - just that there is available, as it were, a set of alternative trajectories into which the atoms can be forced by acts of the will; the will can then take advantage of the causal elasticity so permitted, and, within limits at least, mould events in its image. 
This interpretation at least avoids the reduction of freedom to randomness.  But  it  is  highly  controversial;15 and  it  is  clear  neither  whether Epicurus actually held it, nor if he did how it was to be developed. Sedley bases  his  case  upon  a  papyrus  fragment  of  the   On  Nature,  in  which Epicurus discusses the proper attitude to take towards those who squan-der their natural gifts:
The nature of their atoms has contributed nothing to some of their behaviour, and degrees of behaviour, and character, but it is their developments  which  themselves  possess  all  or  most  of  the  responsibility  for certain things. It is a result of that nature that some of their atoms move with disordered motions, but it is not on the atoms <that responsibility should  be  placed>.  Thus  when  a  development  occurs  which  takes  on 13 Sedley 1983b and 1988; see also the brief account in Long and Sedley 1987, vol. i, 107-12; it is assessed and criticized in Laursen 1988. 
14 See Long and Sedley 1987, vol.i, 110-12. 
15 See the criticisms of Everson, pp. 553-7. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
524
d e t e r m i n i s m   a n d   i n d e t e r m i n i s m
some distinctness from the atoms in a di◊erential way - not in the way which is like viewing from a di◊erent distance - he acquires responsibility which proceeds from himself. Then he immediately transmits this to the primary substances. (Ep.  Nat. xxv, [34] 21-2 Arr.2) That  passage  is  obscure,  and  its  readings  are  disputed.16 But  Epicurus does appear to make a distinction between the ordinary, bottom-up causality of atomic motion and the way in which the individual's settled disposition  must  be  conceived  of  as  operating:  it  is  not,  so  he  suggests, merely  one  of  scale  or  perspective  (this  is  presumably  the  point  of  the aside about viewing from a distance). Rather (if this account is correct), he appears to envisage a new level of causal power emerging above the microscopic level, whose activity is in some way autonomous, and can even feed back into the workings of that micro-level. 
Yet,  as  far  as  we  know,  if  Epicurus  did  adopt  such  a  two-level  causal position, he made no attempt to elaborate upon it; furthermore, the passage  may  be  read  in  such  a  way  as  not  to  involve  the  emergence  at  the macroscopic level of new causal forces. Epicurus may simply be denying the inference from the fact that the individual is composed of atoms with their own laws of working to the claim that it is the atoms themselves, and not the individual, who is responsible for that individual's actions. The target of the passage would then be not physicalism (or reductionism) as such, but rather physicalist determinism.17
Even so, it is quite unclear how, even on that view, Epicurus' thought is supposed to be developed here, and there is no real indication (although given  the  fragmentary  nature  of  the  sources,  such  remarks  should  be handled  with  care)  that  Epicurus  did  develop  it.  Perhaps  he  felt  that  a simple outline was enough to establish its possibility, and hence preferability to an utterly deterministic view of mind and action of the type he ascribes to Democritus and his followers, and which he takes to be absolutely  rationally  unacceptable.  In  a  relatively  well-preserved  fragment ( Nat. xxv, [34] 26-30 Arr.2), Epicurus takes his Democritean opponents to task for not seeing the self-refuting nature of the thesis of determinism: they 'debate this very question on the assumption that their opponent is himself responsible for talking nonsense'. And if the opponent alleges that this behaviour is itself necessitated, then he will be forced into a regress. 
Once again, the exact nature of Epicurus' complaint is di√cult to establish - he does not appear to think that regress is itself vicious, merely that in some sense the fact of it renders the determinist's stance empty. The 16 As is its location in  On Nature, see below, p. 532, n. 30. 
17 See below, pp. 529-31. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   e p i c u r e a n   p o s i t i o n
525
point seems to be that even the determinist relies on the persuasiveness of his arguments - that is, they are supposed to supply reasons why his opponent should modify his views. But one can only act upon reasons if one can act, that is, if one is free (if there is, in Epicurus' language, some 'auxiliary element or impulse within us':  Nat. xxv, [34] 29 Arr.2) - hence the determinist's position is pragmatically at least self-stultifying. That argument is not convincing (no committed determinist will find it too di√cult to evade) - but it is subtle.18
There is, however, a less subtle but still important general line of criticism to be examined. It is put most succinctly in one of the collections of Epicurean sayings:
The man who says that all events are necessitated has no ground for criticizing  the  man  who  says  that  not  all  events  are  necessitated,  since according to him it too is necessitated. (Ep.  Sent.Vat. 40) Universal determinism, so it is said (and has been repeated innumerable times since) makes the practices of praise and blame, reward and punishment, ethically null. We shall return to the Stoic response to this later. 
Lucretius leaves us with no doubt that it is the apparent undeniability of  the  real  existence  of  independent  volitions  which  pushes  the Epicureans to take the line they do; 
Furthermore, if all motion is always linked, and new motion arises out of old in a fixed order, and atoms do not by their swerve make some beginning of motion to break the decrees of fate, so that cause should not follow cause from infinity, from where does free volition exist for animals throughout the world? From where, I ask, comes this volition wrested away from the fates, through which we proceed wherever each of us is led by his pleasure and likewise swerve o◊ our motions at no fixed time or fixed region of space, but wherever the mind carries us? For without a doubt it is volition that gives these things beginnings for each of us, and it is from volition that motions are spread through the limbs . . . Nor is it the same when we move forward impelled by a blow through another person's great strength . . . For then it is plain that all the matter of the whole body moves and is driven against our wish, while volition reined it back through the limbs . . . So in the seeds too you must admit . . . that there is another cause of motion besides impact and weight, from which this power [i.e. volition] is born in us, since we see that nothing can come to be out of nothing . . . That the mind should not itself possess an internal necessity in all its behaviour, and be overcome, and as it were forced 18 See once again below, pp. 529-31. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
526
d e t e r m i n i s m   a n d   i n d e t e r m i n i s m
to su◊er and be acted upon - that is brought about by a tiny swerve of the atoms at no fixed place or time. (Lucr. ii.251-93)
Lucretius apparently invokes volition to avoid the complete linearity of causal  behaviour,  to  explain  interruptions  in  motion,  irregularities  of behaviour, and so on. It is indeed an evident fact of animal behaviour that animals do not react in the same way to stimuli as inanimate objects. Kick a stone in Johnsonian fashion and, even if you fail to refute Berkeley thus, at the expense of a certain foreseeable discomfort you may none the less propel it a certain distance - and the trajectory it follows will be determinate, and in principle predictable on the basis of familiar physical laws. 
Kick a puma, on the other hand, and the outcome is a good deal less certain, both in terms of puma-trajectory and of your own subsequent discomfort.  Animals  quite  clearly  do,  as  Aristotle  put  it,  have  an  internal principle of motion that stones do not. 
But it is one thing to point out that fact - quite another to refute determinism on its basis, and it is far from clear whether it calls for anything resembling an atomic swerve. Lucretius seems to think that because animals  swerve  'at  no  fixed  place  or  time',  i.e.  not  in  response  to  crude mechanical laws, so too must the atoms. But that involves a gross fallacy, one moreover that the atomists' own insistence on the possibility of emergence should have warned them against. In short, nothing Lucretius says in this passage seems to require the swerve, or indeed to militate against any but the crassest determinisms. 
v The Stoic response to the Master argument:
fate and necessity
The Stoics too were perplexed by Diodorus' argument - and while they wished to reject the conclusion (that all truths are eternal and necessary), they were apparently unsure as to how to do so. Cleanthes, Zeno's immediate successor, seems to have rejected (T1);19 Chrysippus his successor, on the other hand, denied (T2) (Cic.  Div. i.14).20 At all events they found it deeply troubling - and something had to be wrong with it. 
This may appear puzzling. The Stoics, after all, are partisans of a universal causality. Numerous texts attest to their belief in an all-embracing ineluctable fate, which they identify variously with the will of Zeus, Zeus 19 See above, p. 516. 
20 Chrysippus' adoption of this fairly desperate manoeuvre need not detain us: his defence of it turns on a peculiarity of Stoic semantics; see Sorabji 1980b, 263. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   s t o i c   r e s p o n s e   t o   t h e   m a s t e r   a r g u m e n t 527
himself,  the   Logos  of  the  world,  and  so  on.  Furthermore,  several  texts ascribe to Chrysippus belief in the necessity of fate:
Chrysippus  .  .  .  said  that  there  was  no  di◊erence  between  what  was necessitated  and  fate,  saying  that  fate  was  an  eternal,  continuous,  and ordered movement. ( SVF  ii 916; cf. 926)
Fate is described as a chain (or rope) of causes ( SVF  ii 915, 917, 920, etc.), unravelling in an ineluctably determined manner; and as Sorabji writes 'the Stoics had a battery of other words for the inevitability which they applied to this all-embracing fate'.21 Finally, Chrysippus is expressly said to have composed the first book of his  On Fate  in order to show 'that everything is encompassed by necessity and fate' (Diogenianus  ap. Eus.  PE  vi.8.1). How do they manage what Sorabji calls their 'retreat from necessity'? 
First of all, note that Chrysippus says that things are necessitated by fate,  not  that  they  are  themselves  necessary.  This  is  not  as  trivial  as  it seems. We need here briefly to examine the Stoic treatment of the modal concepts  of  necessity  and  possibility,  whose  proper  interpretation  was already  a  matter  of  philosophical  dispute  among  Diodorus'  circle. 
Diodorus held that necessity was a matter of eternal truth;22 the Stoics'
view was apparently more generous:
A  proposition  is  possible  which  admits  of  being  true,  there  being  no external  factor  to  prevent  its  being  true  .  .  .  Necessary  is  that  which, being true, does not admit of being false, or if it does so admit is prevented from being false by external factors. (D.L. vii.75)
The interpretation of the definitions given here is a matter of scholarly controversy (and the examples o◊ered by Diogenes Laertius are not very illuminating).23 The notion of 'admitting of ' is murky; and the precise role of the second clause in each definition, referring to 'external factors'
is a matter of dispute. 
None the less, on the most reasonable interpretation it appears that the Stoics are prepared to treat as necessary those things which simply as a matter of fact have turned out to be true, and whose truth is now unassail-able  (that  fits  in  well  with  Chrysippus'  acceptance  of  (T1),  the  first premiss of the Master argument). That last sentence may be misleading -
21 Sorabji 1980b, 261-2; cf.  SVF  ii 202, 528, 913-14, 917-18, 923-4, etc. 
22 This is a little loose, but it will do: the actual definition he o◊ers is 'that which, being true, will not be false' (Boethius  Int. 2, p. 234 Meiser). But he is clearly  committed  to eternal truth by the Master argument. 
23 See  most  clearly  Frede  1974a,  107-17;  also  Bobzien  1986,  Mignucci  1978,  and  see  above, pp. 118-20. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
528
d e t e r m i n i s m   a n d   i n d e t e r m i n i s m
for the Stoics, there will always be a causal explanation as to why things have turned out thus and so - there is no such thing as simply turning out true. It is tempting to try to interpret this on the basis of the time of the preventing. A statement that we would normally consider contingent will only be necessary for the Stoics if there is as a matter of actual fact some causal factor operative at the time to prevent its failing to be true. 
If this is right, the Stoics can evade an obvious objection: if your definition of necessity holds, then anything that will as a matter of fact turn out true  must  be  necessary,  not  for  logical  reasons,  but  because,  given  the iron-clad necessity of the unfolding of fate, there are reasons in the world now (in the form of the total nexus of its causal processes) why things will turn out thus. Determinism should, after all, be temporally indi◊erent. 
But, the Stoics will reply, consider what it is to be a cause, or at least a perfect cause.24 If A is a perfect cause of B, A is actually acting to bring B
about. In this sense, there are no perfect causes of future events (crucially causal perfection is not simply a matter of causal necessity and su√ciency in a Davidsonian fashion). 
This  yields  two  distinct  types  of  modality.  The  first  one  might  label
'species possibility'. In this case some predicate P is possibly applicable to an individual of natural kind K just in case K's can, other things being equal, be P's. Thus Philo of Megara apparently held that a piece of wood at the bottom of the ocean could be burnt, just because wood is naturally flammable. But secondly there is what might be called actual possibility, according to which the submerged wood is not now flammable because of actually obtaining circumstances. The Stoics, on this view, restrict non-actual species-possibilities to future cases; but they do none the less admit some of them. The Stoics buy Philo's account in forward-looking cases only; otherwise the actual prevention condition in their modal definitions kicks in. 
If this is right, it is false to say that the only type of possibility available to the Stoics is epistemic. Consider an example of Aristotle's: a new cloak might perish as a result of ordinary wear, or it might be cut. For the Stoics, sub specie aeternitatis  there is only one thing that can happen to it - the unravelling of fate will see to that. However, there is nothing now in the world  that  prevents  either  outcome,  for  no  causally  e√cient  state  of a◊airs is now making it the case that it will (or will not) be cut. There is thus a point to Chrysippus' insistence that fate is an ineluctable chain of antecedent causes. 
24 On the notion of a 'perfect' cause, see above, pp. 488-90. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   c h r y s i p p e a n   n o t i o n   o f   f a t e 529
vi The Chrysippean notion of fate: soft
determinism
Cicero reports that
Between the two views held by the old philosophers, one being that of those who held that everything takes place by fate in the sense that fate exercises  the  force  of  necessity  -  the  view  of  Democritus,  Heraclitus, Empedocles,  and  Aristotle,  the  other  that  of  those  who  said  that  the movements of the mind are voluntary and not at all controlled by fate, Chrysippus stands as an honorary arbiter and wished to strike a mean between the two; though he leans rather towards those who hold that mind is free from all necessity of motion . . . none the less he slips into such di√culties that against his will he lends support to the necessity of fate. (Cic.  Fat. 39)
Cicero  has Chrysippus  impaled  on  the horns of a dilemma. On the one hand  reluctant  to  abandon  proposition  (4)  above,25 he  nevertheless wishes to a√rm universal causal determinism. To drive a wedge between the two positions, he attempts to disengage assent,  sunkatathesis, from the grip of fate. Since
those old philosophers who used to say that everything takes place by fate held that assent is given by force and necessity. But those who disagreed with them released assent from fate and denied that if assent were tied to fate it would be possible to disentangle it from necessity. They argued as follows: if (9) all things occur by fate, all things occur by an antecedent cause; (10) and if desire is caused, those things which follow desire are also caused; therefore (11) assent is also caused. But (12) if the cause of the desire is not situated within us, even desire itself is not in our power; (13) and if this is so, those things which are caused by desire do not rest with us. Thus it follows (14) that neither assent nor action are in our power. Hence (15) there is no justice in either praise or blame, honours or punishments. (Cic.  Fat. 40)
We have seen the bulk of this argument elsewhere. It has (for the anti-determinist) the form of a multiple  modus tollens: deny (15), and you are committed to denying the antecedent of (9). By contrast, a hard determinist will take the truth of (9) to entail (15), and the emptiness of conventional morality. Chrysippus tries to avoid either conclusion, impugning the argument's validity by distinguishing antecedent causes from internal causes, as we saw in the last chapter.26
25 See p. 520. 
26 See above, pp. 490-4. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
530
d e t e r m i n i s m   a n d   i n d e t e r m i n i s m
Chrysippus  does  not  deny  that  there  are  antecedent  causes  of  our desires, and hence (since such causes are transitive) of our assents to them:
'assent  cannot  take  place  unless  prompted  by  a  sense-impression'  (Cic. 
 Fat. 42). But antecedent causes are not of themselves determining. They determine only in conjunction with other factors, the internal states and conditions they operate upon: and these causes are not transitive in form. 
Thus our assents are caused, but not determined. Chrysippus accepts (11) in a sense - and equally in a sense he accepts (12): but he holds that they equivocate on the notion of cause at play in each of them. In no sense of
'cause' for which (11) is true will the antecedent of (12) follow; hence the argument fails. 
But  this  is  immediately  puzzling:  while  elsewhere  it  is  indeed  confirmed that Chrysippus identifies fate with antecedent causes (Cic.  Top. 
59;  cf.  [Plu.]   Fat.  574d).  However,  Plutarch  ( Stoic.  Rep.  1056b-c)  complains that if Chrysippus does make fate merely the antecedent, and not the perfect cause of right action and thought, he will contradict himself, since  the  antecedent  cause  is  supposedly  weaker  than  the  perfect,  yet nothing is more powerful than the will of Zeus (with which Chrysippus wants to identify fate). Furthermore, fate is supposed to be unconquer-able, ineluctable, and unavoidable. 
Sorabji distinguishes three ways in which Chrysippus' argument may be  taken.27 According  to  the  first  (to  which  he  inclines),  Chrysippus  is trying to avoid the necessitation of assent - but it is, as Sorabji admits, hard to see how the argument could begin to show this with any generality. The second view has Chrysippus making a point about moral responsibility  rather  than  necessity  -  if  our  actions  derive  partially  from something internal to us, then we are responsible for them.28 But then it is hard to see how the argument goes; for, as we have noted, Aristotle was already  well  aware  that  to  show  that  our  dispositions  and  so  on  are responsible for our actions in this sense will still not establish any genuine responsibility.  Finally,  it  might  be  that  Chrysippus  wants  to  deny  not necessity  as  such,  but  the  necessity  of  fate.29 This  accords  well  with Cicero's language, and with the view that fate is a sequence of external causes. 
If this is right, then there will be no relaxation of the fetters of necessity
- but fate in and of itself will not be the sole producer and determiner of that necessity. Even so, it is hard to see how the Stoics could have thought 27 Sorabji 1980b. 
28 Donini 1974-5. 
29 Sorabji 1980b, 274, attributes this interpretation to Frede. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
f a t e   a n d   r e s p o n s i b i l i t y 531
of  fate  on  its  own,  if  it  is  simply  the  sequence  of  antecedent  causes,  as being determining - for antecedent causes do not themselves determine. 
It is only when they are combined with the potentials contained within things in temporal and causal sequences that the determination of events arises at all. However, there will be another sense in which fate is determining: given the structure of natural potentialities which obtains in the world,  plus  various  contingent  (contingent  in  a  relaxed  sense:  nothing turns on the notion here) facts about their physical and spatial relationships,  then  their  entire  history  of  interaction  will  be  plottable  by  a Laplacean super-scientist - their impingement upon one another being precisely the play of antecedent causes. Thus, looking backward, we can say that fate necessitated the outcome of every event given that spatio-temporal structure. 
We can still give a perfectly clear and coherent sense to the claim that things might have turned out otherwise: they might, indeed would, have done so had that structure,  per (causal)  impossibile, been di◊erent. If it had been  you  rather  than  I  who  was  tempted  by  that  extra  helping  of zabaione, the pudding would have remained virtuously on the plate. And the  truth-makers  for  these  counterfactuals  of  possibility  will  be  real-world situations that are relevantly similar in all important aspects (last week  you  were  o◊ered  a  second  helping  of  zabaione,  but  virtuously declined). Hence possibility does not collapse into necessity; and nor does it become merely epistemic in form. 
Thus  Plutarch's  charge  of  self-contradiction  also  fails.  Considered simply  qua  collection of antecedent causes, fate is not all-powerful; but there is a perfectly clear real-world sense in which, given the way things are, things could not turn out di◊erently given that set of causes. The will of Zeus really is ineluctable. 
vii Fate and responsibility:  confatalia  and the
 eph' he-min
One may still ask where this leaves the concept of responsibility. We may allow Chrysippus the distinction between internal and external causes -
we  may  even  admit  that,  in  some  metaphysical  sense,  the  inner  causes really are the causes that keep the system going. But even if that shows that in some sense the things we do are  eph' he-min, 'up to us', in that it is the structure of our individual desires and beliefs and so on which causally determines how we react individually to stimuli (as in the zabaione case), is that sense strong enough to justify the ascription of praise and blame? 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
532
d e t e r m i n i s m   a n d   i n d e t e r m i n i s m
While my gourmandise is evidently responsible for my custardly  akrasia (and equally your self-control conditions your restraint under the same circumstances), am I responsible for the state of my dispositions? 
This is of course Aristotle's problem: only if I am responsible for the development of my states of character can I be held responsible for the excesses  of  that  character.  Aristotle  thought,  and  Epicurus  appears  to have echoed him here,30 that there was a stage in the development of our characters, before the dispositions hardened into  hexeis, where they were su√ciently elastic for us to be able to influence which way they went. We become good, on the Aristotelian model, by performing good actions, by making  them  a  part  of  our  make-up  ( EN  ii.2.1104a11-4.1105b18).  But while that process is under way we are genuinely free to choose either the straight-and-narrow or the primrose path. So, while it may be true of the old reprobate that he genuinely cannot now refrain from vice, the young blade he was thirty years ago could have done so. There is a window of opportunity, as it were, in the development of our characters when that development is up to us. 
This is not easy to make sense of; when I 'freely' choose vice over virtue, why assume that my choice is somehow free of the constraints which later condition my vicious life-style? The fashionable distinction between first-and  second-order  desires  does  no  work  here  (was  not  my  second-order choice to develop a vicious disposition itself the result of existing traits of character, or external pressures?). Moreover, Aristotle stresses the importance of a proper upbringing in developing a good character - but that is surely  definitionally  outside  the  control  of  the  individual  properly brought up. 
Su√ce it to say here that the mere fact that the agent's desires, beliefs, etc. play an instrumental role in causing his actions does nothing to support the view that what he does is up to him in any strong sense. It does show that such actions are attributable to him - it is he who does them, in a sense in which those 'actions' of someone physically compelled by main force are not. That Humean response will deflect the Epicurean accusation  that  anyone  who  espouses  this  kind  of  determinism  can  make  no sense of the notion of coercion (although the subtler point that there is no 30  Nat. xxv, [34] 26 Arr.2: 'from the very outset we always have seeds directing us some towards these, some towards those, some towards these and those, actions and thoughts and characters, in greater and smaller numbers. Consequently that which we wish to develop - characteristics of this or that kind - is at first absolutely up to us; and the things which of necessity flow in through our passages from that which surrounds us are at one stage up to us and dependent upon beliefs of our own making.' Quite what Epicurus' account is here is di√cult to determine
- but the overall tenor of his developmental view is unmistakeable. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
f a t e   a n d   r e s p o n s i b i l i t y 533
morally relevant di◊erence between coercion and voluntary action may of course still be defensible).31 But the thornier problem remains of explaining  how  ascription  of  responsibility  is  to  be  justified  if  everything  that happens is indeed necessitated by fate, even if an individual's actual dispositions are part of the causal nexus that determines those outcomes. The Stoics held that we were responsible for what we did because our natures were such as to determine how we chose - our natures, that is, are partially (and for evaluative purposes relevantly) causally responsible for our making the decisions we make, and hence our decisions are 'up to us'.32
But the rejoinder is obvious:
If they assign impulse as being up to us on the grounds that we have it by nature, what is to stop us from saying that burning is up to fire since fire burns by nature? (Nemes. 106.7-9)
The Stoics seem to have thought that, the more convoluted the internal causal  process  leading  from  impression  to  action  in  an  individual,  the more attributable to that individual becomes the action. But it is hard to see how a mere increase in complexity can deliver the required result, at least if responsibility, like causation, is taken to be transitive.33
Hard determinism would be an option - but as Sorabji stresses, it was not one much canvassed in antiquity.34 There is a famous story about Zeno: He was once beating a slave for stealing, and when the latter said 'I was fated to steal', he replied 'and to be flogged'. (D.L. vii.23) But, as Sorabji says, while compatible with a hard determinist stance this by no means entails it: and it is clearly intended rather to illustrate the Stoic doctrine of 'co-fated events' ( confatalia). 
A standard objection to Stoic determinism was that known as the 'lazy argument', the  argos logos; if everything is preordained since time began, what  is  the  point  of  my  making  any  interventions  in  the  world  at  all? 
Cicero again:
31 It is worth pointing out that such a response can also make room for a notion of coercion richer and more interesting than simply that of main force - an action (handing over money to an armed  robber,  for  instance)  is  coerced  in  this  sense  just  in  case  the  agents'  desires  are  not directly involved in their coming to be in a situation in which their freedom of action (i.e. the set of options over which their desires can range) is curtailed by the actions of another (in this case the robber o◊ering the alternatives of 'your money or your life'). I owe these points to numerous discussions with my wife, Jennifer Greene. 
32 See e.g. Alex.  Fat. 181.3-182.20; 205.24-206.2. 
33 Of course, one may deny that responsibility is, in the appropriate sense, thoroughly transitive -
complex systems will, on this view, take on 'a life of their own', and serve as an appropriate locus for evaluation - but it is one thing to  state  this position - quite another to  argue  for it. 
34 Sorabji 1980b, 280-2. An exception is Galen: see Hankinson 1992, which deals in greater detail with the issues of causation, determination, and responsibility. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
534
d e t e r m i n i s m   a n d   i n d e t e r m i n i s m
They pose it [i.e. the lazy argument] thus: 'if it is your fate to recover from illness, you will recover, regardless of whether or not you call the doctor. Similarly if it is your fate not to recover . . . you will not recover whether or not you call the doctor. And one or the other is your fate. 
Therefore it is pointless to call the doctor.' (Cic.  Fat. 28-9) The  lazy  argument  confounds  determinism  with  what  one  might  call Islamic fatalism, the notion that no matter what you do a particular fate is in store for you. By contrast genuine determinists must reject this - they should  (and  the  Stoics  did)  say  that  whatever  we  do  is  predetermined, including our reaction to the lazy argument. Here is Chrysippus' response: Some events in the world are simple, some complex. 'Socrates will die on such and such a day' is simple: his day of dying is fixed, regardless of what he may or may not do. But if a fate is of the form 'Oedipus will be born to Laius', it will not be possible to add 'regardless of whether or not Laius has  intercourse  with  a  woman'.  For  the  event  is  complex  and  co-fated ( confatale). He [i.e. Chrysippus] uses this term because what is fated is both that Laius will have intercourse with his wife and that by her he will beget an Oedipus . . . All fallacies of this sort are refuted in the same way. 
'You will recover regardless of whether or not you call the doctor' is fallacious. For it is just as much fated for you to call the doctor as for you to recover. (Cic.  Fat. 30)
Elsewhere, Chrysippus employed a di◊erent, pointed example - even if it is fated for Hegesarchus to win the bout without taking a punch, it would still certainly be absurd to expect him to fight with a dropped guard on the grounds that he was so fated ( SVF  ii 998). In general, the doctrine of confatalia  has it that if some event E is fated, then so are all the necessary conditions of E. Thus I eat the zabaione because I am greedy - I am fated not only to eat it, but to be greedy too. And my being greedy explains why I eat it. My actions are not robbed of point simply because in one sense at least  I  could  not  do  otherwise.  Persistent  acratics  can  still  try  to  mend their ways in a thoroughly determined universe; and they may still succeed through their own e◊orts (although of course the fact that they make the e◊ort is determined too). But whether or not they do so will be determined by causes remote from their own control. 
viii Divination and fate
Whether or not the universe is determinist in character is, as we saw earlier,35 logically distinct from the question of whether that future can be 35 See p. 519 above. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
d i v i n a t i o n   a n d   f a t e
535
known - but if one assumes, as the ancients in general did, that the future can be known only if there are determinate causes of it knowable in the present, then the possibility of large scale accurate forecasting of the future will seem to depend on that future's beingdetermined. The Stoics, by and large (Panaetius was an exception) believed in divination; and they found that belief comfortingly compatible with their determinism. Indeed their views of the relations between the two were sometimes charged with circularity: Chrysippus gives this demonstration to us, proving each one by way of the other. For he wants to establish that everything comes to be according to fate on the grounds of divination, while that divination exists he is able to show by no other means than by assuming that everything comes about according to fate. (Diogenianus  ap. Eus.  PE  iv.3.2) The circularity is not, however, vicious; and our text confuses explanation with support. The (supposedly) empirical fact of divinatory success supports the hypothesis of determinism (indeed perhaps on their, mistaken, view it entails it); conversely, the deterministic hypothesis explains divination, or at any rate is part of its explanation. 
Of course, the mere fact that the universe is deterministic would be no guarantee that its future course would be patent to the miserable human intelligence. Perhaps it is just vastly too complex for that. In that case, it will help to have a benevolent deity who is au fait with those complexities
- but that there is such a deity is a feature of Stoic theology. Thus it would be good for us if we could know the future; the gods (or God) can tell us what it will be like; they have concern for us; hence they will tell us (cf. 
Cic.  Div. i.101-2;  ND  ii.161-8). Of course, that argument is vulnerable at every turn - and the Stoics' ancient critics exploited that vulnerability (cf. 
Carneades, in Cic.  ND  i.4; Favorinus  ap. Gell. xiv.1-36).36 But for all that, the Stoics have a consistent set of at least mutually supportive doctrines in theology and metaphysics. 
The ins and outs of the debate on divination are beyond the scope of this chapter.37 But one feature of the dispute is of importance. The Stoics defined divination as 'the foretelling of events that come about by chance'
(Cic.  Div.  ii.13-15,  26):  but  in  the  Stoic  universe  there  is  no  room  for chance. Indeed, the Stoics' stubborn refusal to admit that there is such a thing as genuine chance forms the core of the Peripatetic attack on Stoic determinism.38 Cicero indeed attempts to convict the Stoics of a formal 36 On the Stoics and divination in general see Hankinson 1988b, and Long 1982a. 
37 Arguments both for and against may be found in Cic.  Div. ; and S.E.  M  v is a compendium of arguments, many probably Carneadean in origin, against divination. 
38 To be found principally in Alex.  Fat.; I do not deal with the Peripatetic views in detail in their own right, since it is not certain that they were developed in the period covered by this volume. 
None the less, they are of much intrinsic interest, see Sharples 1983. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
536
d e t e r m i n i s m   a n d   i n d e t e r m i n i s m
self-contradiction on this score. The future cannot be predicted if it is the result of chance, since if we can know an event is going to occur, it is not now  possible  that  it  will  not  occur;  hence  it  cannot  be  a  chance  event. 
Furthermore, Cicero argues, the only basis for any such knowledge would have to be causal - the event in question follows in a lawlike manner from known initial conditions. But in that case too, it cannot be chance. But the Stoics have no di√culty with this, for they specifically define chance epistemically as 'a cause obscure to human understanding'.39 To describe an event as a matter of chance is to say that it was not predictable by us on the basis of known causal laws and initial conditions. Of course, that is quite compatible with the idea of its being causally predictable by some super-intelligence; and hence of such events being foreshadowed for us in some other manner (by the cleft in an ox-liver, for instance). 
What is at issue here is the nature of the divinatory sign. Sign-theory and its ramifications are fully treated elsewhere in this volume.40 But crudely the issue is this. In the case of a certain type of sign, the so-called indicative sign, the sign-event is such that it is more than materially tied to that which it signifies. The sign is a sign in virtue of a determinate causal relationship which holds between it and what it signifies (further conditions also need to be fulfilled - but they need not concern us). By contrast, a commemorative sign merely serves to call to mind that of which it is a signifier: there may be, but crucially need not be, any causal connection between the two. 
This distinction lies behind Chrysippus' famous attempt to evade the unpalatable implications of treating divinatory 'theorems' as conditionals in the Stoic sense. If
(T5) whoever is born at the rising of the Dog-star will not die at sea is such a theorem, and Fabius was born at that time, then
(16) if Fabius was born at the rising of the Dog-star, Fabius will not die at sea
looks as though it is a sound conditional, a simple substitution instance of (T5). But, given the Stoics' own account of its truth-conditions,41 for (16) to be sound there must be a connection of relevance (it is tempting to say causal relevance) between antecedent and consequent - the consequent is true in virtue of the antecedent's truth. But (16) does not appear to satisfy that condition, since Fabius' being born at that time does not seem to be a 39 Alex.  Fat. 172.12, 173.13, 174.1;  SVF  ii 965-71. 
40 See above, pp. 286-94 and below, pp. 611-3. 
41 See above, pp. 106-8. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
s o f t   d e t e r m i n i s m
537
cause  of  his  avoiding  a  watery  grave.  Hence  Chrysippus  reformulated such propositions as negated conjunctions:
(16*) it is not the case both that Fabius is born at the rising of the Dog-star and that he dies at sea. 
Cicero, who reports this ( Fat. 15), also ridicules it - why cannot doctors and geometricians simply do the same with their own theorems:
What is there that cannot be carried over in that sort of way from the form of a necessary consequence to that of a negated conjunction? (Cic. 
 Fat. 16)
But he misses the point, which is that such reformulations carry no commitment to there being any necessary relationship between the two component  propositions  (or  perhaps  more  accurately  if  there  is  a  necessary relation  between  them  it  is  derivative,  not  direct).  This  does  not  imply that there can be no causal relation between them (they may, for example, be  collateral  e◊ects  of  some  more  remote  cause),  although  for  reasons briefly  canvassed  earlier  it  does  not  seem  that  there  need  be.  Thus, Cicero's  jocularity  notwithstanding,  Chrysippus  is  making  a  serious point with his plea for reformulation. 
ix Soft determinism
None of the Stoics wished to invoke their determinism to exonerate the wrong-doer; indeed, their stern morality lays great store by the individual's own e◊orts at self-improvement and moral progress. But the suspicion still remains that, for all Chrysippus' attempts to find a middle way between hard determinism and the causal chaos of the Epicurean swerve, there is something missing in the determinist's universe, namely the justification for punishment and reward - the sense in which things are, for them,  eph' he-min  is not strong enough to bear the weight of moral evaluation. To be sure, the determinist can explain why they occur; perhaps he can even do so in terms of their beneficial e◊ects (by developing an evolutionary theory of them, for instance). Crimes may still be punished  pour encourager  les  autres; deterrence works, indeed perhaps works best, in a determinist  cosmos.  Furthermore,  a  determinist  is  not  debarred  by  his views from attempting to reform a criminal, or from protecting society from  him.  But  the  notion  of  desert  seems  to  be  in  bad  order  -  and  the ancients  were  not  prepared  readily  to  abandon  it.  Let  us  conclude  by examining some texts which bear upon the issue. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
538
d e t e r m i n i s m   a n d   i n d e t e r m i n i s m
The  Stoics  adduce  a  number  of  arguments  in  order  to  defend  their thesis of the compatibility of moral judgement with their form of determinism. First of all they argue that, since such judgements arise of necessity out of the natural order, they must themselves be natural - it is part of our natures to praise and blame. Man is rational, mortal - and censorious: They  [i.e.  the  Stoics]  suppose  that  everything  naturally  constituted  is such as it is in accordance with fate, 'natural' being the same thing as 'in accordance  with  fate',  and  they  add  'consequently  it  will  be  in  accordance with fate that animals have perceptions and impulses. And some animals will be merely active, while others will perform rational actions. 
And some will do wrong, while others will do right actions. For these are natural to them. But so long as wrong and right actions remain, and their natures and qualities are not removed, there also remain commendations and censures, punishments and honours. For such are the sequence and order to which they are subject.' (Alex.  Fat. 205.24-206.2; cf. 207.5-21) Right and wrong actions are just as much written into the causal sequence of things as anything else; and so, consequently, are their consequences. 
Zeno's slave has no right to complain. This raises some immediate questions. Alexander himself asks pertinently how the concepts of right and wrong can retain any content in the Stoic universe. It is precisely because, he avers, the actions which invite moral appraisal are up to us in the sense of not being externally compelled that we can meaningfully label them right or wrong. But such a position is not open to the Stoics, since whatever they say, all actions are compelled (Alex.  Fat. 206.2-207.3). 
Alexander  e◊ectively  challenges  the  Stoics  to  show  not  merely  how such institutions might be explained, but how they can retain their moral value. The Stoics can, he allows, give a natural history of their genesis -
but to give a natural historical explanation is precisely to explain them away, to show how they can have the appearance of content without actually possessing any: but that is hard, and not soft, determinism. 
The Stoics cannot, I think, avoid accepting some shift in the content of these moral notions. It is a further question how damaging that shift need be, and whether it need empty them of all recognizable evaluative content. The following is a sketch only of what the Stoics need to say on the issue (whether they actually did or not is a further question). They borrow from Aristotle the notion of natural hierarchy of functions; and like him they  interpret  this  in  a  teleological  fashion  (the  di◊erences  between Aristotelian and Stoic teleology need not detain us). Di◊erent animals do di◊erent  things:  and  what  they  do  uniquely  or  best  is  their  proper  or definitive function. It is their nature for them to act thus; and hence it is Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
s o f t   d e t e r m i n i s m
539
right for them to do so. Man censures; hence it is right for man to be censorious. 
It is not di√cult, however, to see where that argument is vulnerable. 
First of all, the Stoics can be accused of an equivocation on the notion of rightness here. Perhaps 'right' just means 'fitting' or 'appropriate'; in that sense it is clearly right for a carving-knife to slice meat, and wrong to use it to slice flesh. And, at a stretch, you might censure people who do so for misusing their tools. But it would be absurd to censure the knife itself, since its capacity is merely instrumental; and yet it is di√cult to see how, in the Stoic cosmos, human beings have any morally richer role simply in virtue of their structural complexity. 
But  the  Stoics  have  a  further  line  of  defence.  Divine  providence  sees that the world is a hierarchy not merely of functions but of good ones. But if that is the case, surely we can view the gradual approximation of the world to a perfect condition as being itself a good thing. Thus there is a further sense over and above their mere functionality why it is good that knives cut, or men blame: it is part of the benevolent, providential ordering of things; God has made things as good (compatible with the material restraints imposed upon him: Epict.  Diss. i.1.7-12, following Plato  Tim. 
29e-30b; 75a-c) as they could possibly be.42 But the Stoics notoriously held that everything that occurred was good (see e.g. Marc. Aurel. iv.10, 23, 26; cf. ii.3; and cf. Chrysippus' attitude to bed-bugs);43 consequently, it is not a mere fact that we praise and blame - it is good that we do so; praise and blame are part of the causal working of the best of all possible worlds. But if that is right, how can the Stoics di◊erentiate between good and bad actions? Since the world is as good as it could be (sc. at this particular  time),  and  since  its  evolution  is  towards  a  state  of  perfection,  and since every event that occurs within it is part of and contributes towards that evolution, every event must be good. 
The Stoics are in some sense committed, I believe, to that. But they are not debarred thereby from developing a non-trivial conception of the relative  rightness  and  wrongness  of  individual  actions  and  events  which relies on the distinction between temporally-indexed and timeless judgements of worth. Let us consider some action that would be considered wrong, both conventionally and by the Stoics (for the Stoics notoriously do  not  subscribe  to  a  conventional  morality:  S.E.  PH  iii.20 0-1,  205-6, 42 The  limitations  on  creative  possibility  supplied  by  material  recalcitrance  common  to  the Platonic, Stoic, and Galenic view of providential creation allows them to sidestep some of the notorious di√culties associated with maintaining that ours is the best of all possible worlds: see Hankinson 1989. 
43 See above, pp. 467, 504. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
540
d e t e r m i n i s m   a n d   i n d e t e r m i n i s m
etc.): premeditated murder, for example. A murder is an event, and hence datable. Suppose x kills y at spatio-temporal region s. We may consider the action either as (a) a murder  tout court, or as (b) a murder-at-s. Other things being equal, murder is wrong; hence  sub specie (a) we condemn it; however viewed  sub specie (b), it is an event conducive towards the perfection of the world, and hence we can welcome it, not because it is an action of the type that it is (that is still reprehensible), but simply because it is so conducive. We can even add a little further flesh to that: the truth-maker for  the  claim  that  the  action  is  wrong  is  the  fact  that  when  the  world attains  its  most  developed  condition  there  will  no  (a)-type  acts,  which allows us to evaluate (b) the way we do. 
Thus the Stoics can rescue a non-trivial sense in which actions can be genuinely  evaluated.  But  of  course  it  is  one  thing  to  evaluate  the  act  -
quite another to evaluate the agent as being responsible. Here, I think, the opponents of the Stoics can make out their case. As a Stoic, I can think that you are a frightful bore; I can wish it were otherwise; and I can look forward to the blessed day when the world will contain only interesting people. But it seems unfair to hold you any more responsible for that than you are for your basic physical nature. 
x Fate and moral progress
Finally I turn to the issue of how the Stoic view of moral progress relates to  their  determinism.  Earlier  I  distinguished  determinism  of  the  Stoic type  from  fatalism,  the  view  that  no  matter  what  you  do,  your  fate  is bound to be thus and so. The Stoics do, however, appear at times to stray close to a position that resembles at least a limited fatalism. This is most apparent in their famous comparison of human fate to a dog tied behind a cart - it can choose to go willingly along, or it can choose to resist: but either way the end result is the same (Hipp.  Ref.  i.21). That appears to suggest that, contrary to the burden of the argument so far, the Stoics conceive of human beings as having a sort of Humean liberty of spontaneity. 
They cannot choose how things will be; but they can choose, and apparently in some strong sense, whether or not to like it. Thus human choices are in a sense genuine - but they are causally insulated from the working of the world. 
But  if  what  has  gone  before  is  even  remotely  correct,  that  cannot  be right.  The  dog  and  cart  image  is  not  a  particularly  happy  one,  precisely because it does have these fatalistic overtones: none the less it can be interpreted consistently with a non-fatalist view of the structure of causation. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
f a t e   a n d   m o r a l   p r o g r e s s 541
The  point  is  primarily,  I  think,  about  our  attitude  to  our  projects.  The Stoics held that, until we actually arrive at the condition of the sage, in which we will simply never make mistakes, every expression of projected action should be hedged with a mental rider, a 'reservation ( huphexairesis)'
to the e◊ect 'God willing'. I should want to do things only on condition that they will as a matter of fact take place (and hence by definition are part of the unravelling of fate). What the Stoic aims to do is to bring his own impulses  and  desires  as  closely  as  possible  into  harmony  with  the  way things are actually going to go; he will not strive for the impossible. Now that can be interpreted fatalistically, if one assumes that the way things are going to go is fixed independently of human decisions and desires. But it does not require such an interpretation; and all that we have seen of the Stoic position so far tells against it. As I approach moral perfection, the extent to which my desires will be frustrated will diminish. In the perfect world there will be no such frustrations at all. And the Stoics hold that the world is evolving towards such perfection. Of course its evolution is determined - and part of that evolution is driven by human desires and their frustrations. But, as we have seen, we can make sense of the claim that it is good  that  there  are  such  frustrations  even  though  frustrations  are  not good. That position is coherent, and non-fatalistic (it does not assert that things would have been the same whatever decisions were made). Whether there is anything else to be said for it is, however, another matter. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
16
Epicurean psychology
s t e p h e n   e v e r s o n
i Introduction
In an age which has produced much agonizing over how to reconcile the life of the mind with a materialist physics, we are likely to feel an immediate a√nity with an earlier theorist who combined the project of explaining human psychology with a commitment to the claim that 'the totality of things is bodies and void' ( Ep. Hdt. 39). In common with the vast majority  of  modern  psychologists  and  philosophers  of  mind,  Epicurus  was committed  to  atomistic  materialism  -  and  indeed,  unlike  that  of  most modern  psychologists  and  philosophers,  his  commitment  actually extended  to  arguing  for  the  truth  of  that  position.  It  was  not  a  thesis which he accepted merely on authority. Like that of Aristotle in the generation  before  him,  Epicurus'  psychology  needs  to  be  seen  as  part  of  an attempt to provide a complete natural philosophy. At least part of what he has to say about the  psuche-  is directly intended to show that his atomic theory is capable of explaining such complex natural phenomena as perception, thought and action.1 All of what he has to say is intended to be consistent with that physical theory. 
This, however, places fewer constraints on what will count as a successful theory of the relation between the mental and the physical than is sometimes  supposed.  We  are  perhaps  apt  to  be  over-impressed  by Epicurus' espousal of atomism and to assume that, just by accepting the thesis that all material objects are divisible into atomic parts, he took on the  task  of  showing  that  all  the  properties  of  material  objects  can  be 1 I  leave   psuche- (plural:   psuchai)  transliterated:  there  is  no  satisfactory  English  translation, although 'soul' has come close to being orthodox. In its widest sense, it is that which is responsible for life - so, in Aristotle, even plants have  psuchai. Although this wide usage is preserved in some Epicurean texts (thus Diogenes of Oenoanda states that the  psuche- 'provides nature with the  reason  for  the  (presence  or)  absence  of  life'  (fr.  37  Smith)),  Epicurus'  interest  is  more restricted than Aristotle's, focusing on those living creatures which are capable of sensation or perception.  For  the  general  Hellenistic  restriction  of  the  activities  of  the   psuche-,  see  Annas 1992a, 8-10. 
[542]
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
-
t h e   p s u c h e
543
reduced to the states and movements of those parts. It is important to recognize  from  the  start  that  such  reductionism  is  not  forced  on Epicurus by his commitment to atomism - which is a thesis about the nature of matter and not a metaphysical thesis about the nature of substances and their properties. The acceptance of an atomic physics provides no greater pressure to identify substances with their matter or to reduce all properties to the properties of matter than does the acceptance of the claim that matter is continuous. It may turn out that Epicurus did make reductionist claims of this sort but he was certainly under no atomist obligation to do so. 
Determining  what  relation  Epicurus  does  in  fact  take  to  obtain between mental events and physical events is not, as will become apparent, a straightforward matter. Before pursuing this in more detail, however, it is necessary to put some basic theses of Epicurean psychology into play. 
ii The  psuche
 -
In the  Letter to Herodotus, his own summary of his philosophy of natural science, Epicurus deals with the  psuche-  once he has outlined the nature of atomic motion. He begins his account with a re-a√rmation of materialism:
The  next  thing  to  see  -  referring  it  to  the  perceptions  and  a◊ections, since that will provide the strongest confirmation - is that the  psuche- is a fine-structured body di◊used through the whole aggregate [i.e. the animal's whole body], most strongly resembling wind with a certain blending of heat, and resembling wind in some respects but heat in others. But there is that part which di◊ers greatly also from wind and heat themselves in its fineness of structure, a fact which makes it the more liable to co-a◊ection with the rest of the aggregate. ( Ep. Hdt. 63) For Epicurus, as for Aristotle, 'bodies' ( so-mata) are individual substances2
and so to say that the  psuche-  is  a  body is to make a stronger claim than is required  simply  to  maintain  materialism  -  since  that  would  require  no more than the thesis that all living things are bodies. Both Aristotle and Epicurus accept that claim but whereas Aristotle describes the  psuche-  as the 'form' or essence of the living body - so that to say what something's 2 In  Ep. Hdt.  68-71 he distinguishes between 'permanent attributes' and those which are accidental and twice specifies that the term for the substance itself - 'the whole' - is 'body'. See also above, pp. 379-82. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
544
e p i c u r e a n   p s y c h o l o g y
 psuche-  is is to say what it is to be that kind of thing - Epicurus places the psuche- as an  individuated part  of the body. Like the other bodily parts, such as hearts and livers, the  psuche- is spatially identifiable and has a distinctive material constitution.3
Epicurus' discussion of the  psuche-  takes up only five and a half sections (63-8) of the  Ep. Hdt. and there is no attempt there to provide a full précis of  his  psychological  theory.  In  particular,  perhaps,  little  if  anything  is made  of  the  distinction,  apparently  drawn  elsewhere  by  Epicurus, between a rational and an irrational part of the  psuche-.4 In our fullest and most  detailed  report  of  Epicurean  psychology,  Book  iii of   De  Rerum Natura, Lucretius distinguishes these parts at the very beginning of his discussion, saying that he will make clear 'the nature of mind ( animus) and spirit ( anima)' (iii.31-6). At iii.94-7, he says that the  animus  is also called the  mens  and is itself a genuine part of the body. The relation between the two parts of the  psuche- is discussed further at iii.136◊: My next point is that the mind and the spirit are firmly interlinked and constitute a single nature, but that the deliberative element which we call  the  mind  is,  as  it  were,  the  chief,  and  holds  sway  throughout  the body. It is firmly located in the central part of the chest. For that is where fear and dread leap up, and where joys caress us: therefore it is where the mind is. The remaining part of the spirit,5 which is distributed throughout  the  body,  obeys  the  mind  and  moves  at  its  beck  and  call.  (Lucr. 
iii.136 -44)
The spirit is thus that part of the  psuche-  which is responsible for producing movement in the body and for making it capable of sensation. 
Nevertheless, although the  animus  and the  anima  are distinguishable as parts of the  psuche-, together they form a unified part of the body - they have,  as  Lucretius  says,  a  'single  nature'.  This  unitary  nature  is  emphasized not only in relation to its two parts but also to its constituent atoms. 
Aëtius provides a succinct report of the Epicurean account of the material constitution of the  psuche-:
Epicurus  [said  that  the   psuche-  is]  a  blend  ( krama)  consisting  of  four things, of which one kind is fire-like, one air-like, one wind-like, while 3 The point is confirmed by Lucr. iii.94-7, where he says that the mind ( animus) is as much a part of the body as are the hands, feet and eyes. 
4 The  Ep. Hdt. as it is preserved in Diogenes Laertius x, contains an interpolation in 66 which points this out: 'Epicurus says in other works that . . . one part of it, which is dispersed through the rest of the body, is irrational and the other, which is rational, is in the chest, as is evident from fears and joys.' 
5 ' cetera pars animae': ' anima' is used both as a term to denote the  psuche-  as a whole and as a term denoting just the irrational part, the  anima  proper (see Lucr. iii.421-4). 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
-
t h e   p s u c h e
545
the fourth is something which lacks a name. This last he made the one responsible for perception. (Aët. iv.3.11)6
Whilst these di◊erent kinds of atoms are all present in the  psuche-, however, what allows the  psuche- to function is the fact that they make up a particular blend which has its own distinctive nature:
The  primary  particles  of  the  elements  so  interpenetrate  each  other  in their motions that no one element can be distinguished and no capacity spatially separated, but they exist as multiple powers of a single body . . . 
Heat, air and the unseen force of wind when mixed form a single nature, along with that mobile power which transmits the beginning of motion from  itself  to  them,  the  origin  of  sense-bearing  motions  through  the flesh. (Lucr. iii.262-5; 269-72)
The  psuche-, then, is made of a certain blend of atoms, and, as such, possesses properties lacking in things which do not consist of this particular blend.7 It is, for instance, capable of maintaining life in a living body, of forming beliefs and of deciding how to act. 
The   psuche-  and  the  body  are  mutually  dependent.  One  of  Epicurus'
most cherished doctrines is that the  psuche-  dies with the rest of the body and much attention is paid to establishing this claim. When the  psuche-
ceases  to  be  contained  within  the  body,  its  constituent  atoms  dissipate rapidly:
We must grasp too that the  psuche-  has the major share of responsibility for sensation. On the other hand, it would not be in possession of this if it  were  not  contained  in  some  way  by  the  rest  of  the  aggregate  .  .  . 
Moreover,  when  the  whole  aggregate  disintegrates  the   psuche-  is  dispersed and no longer has the same powers, or its motions. Hence it does not possess sensation either. For it is impossible to think of it perceiving while not in this organism, or moving with these motions when what contains it and surrounds it are not of the same kind as those in which it now has these motions. ( Ep. Hdt. 63; 65-6)
When released from the body, the atoms of the  psuche-  disperse even more rapidly than do those of liquids, or of cloud or smoke (Lucr. iii.434-9). 
The body too will not survive separation from the  psuche-, although its disintegration is not as immediate as that of the  psuche-. The  psuche-  is 6 We should not worry that Epicurus makes no mention of air (or air-like) atoms in  Ep. Hdt. 63, as if he were there committed to the presence of only three types of atom rather than the four reported by Aëtius and Lucretius. In fact, he does not mention any of the  psuche-'s constituent atoms at all: it is the blend which we should take to resemble wind mixed with heat. 
7 For further discussion of the Epicurean notion of a 'blend' ( krama), see Kerferd 1971, 89-91. 
The composition of the  psuche-  is discussed in Annas 1991, 93-5 and 1992a, 137-43. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
546
e p i c u r e a n   p s y c h o l o g y
contained  by  the  whole  body,  and  is  itself  the  body's  guardian  and cause of its survival; for they cling together with common roots, and manifestly  they  cannot  be  torn  asunder  without  destruction.  (Lucr. 
iii.323-6)
Not only the two parts of the  psuche-, but also the  psuche- and the body form an individual substance: 'since conjunction is necessary to their existence, so  also  theirs  must  be  a  joint  nature'  (iii.347-8).  In  the   Against  Colotes, Plutarch reports the Epicureans as claiming that a human is made from two things - a body of a certain sort and a  psuche- (1118d). It is thus the living body, of which the  psuche-  is a part, which is the animal and not the psuche-  by itself.8 Lucretius stresses that sensation is an a◊ection which is common to the mind and the body (iii.335-6): the presence of the  psuche-
makes the whole body able to enjoy sensation (iii.350-69). All of the body has powers it would not have if it did not contain the  psuche-. As Diogenes of Oenoanda puts it, 
It is true that the number of its [i.e. the  psuche-'s] constituent atoms . . . 
does not equal that of the body; yet it girdles the whole man and, while being itself confined, binds him in its turn, just as the minutest quantity of acid juice binds a huge quantity of milk. (Fr. 37 Smith)9
iii Physicalism and materialism
With these basic doctrines in place, we can turn to consider Epicurus' status as a materialist and physicalist. Clearly, given his claim that the  psuche-
is a body, there can be no quarrel with applying either of these labels to him, since they are su√ciently vague to apply to almost any philosopher who is not a Cartesian dualist. For such labelling to do any work, however, these terms need to be made precise: they need to be defined when they are employed if they are to further rather than to hinder understanding. 
Let  us  say that someone  is  a  materialist if he accepts that all individual substances are composed of matter. On this definition, Epicurus clearly 8 Although  see  Annas  1991,  92-3,  and  1992a,  149-51,  for  the  claim  that  Epicurus  sometimes identifies the person with the rational part of the  psuche-  rather than the living body as a whole, including the  psuche-. Her principal evidence for this, however, is D.L. x.137, where Epicurus is reported as saying that the pains of the  psuche- are worse than those of the body because 'the flesh is storm-tossed only in the present, but the  psuche-  in past, present and future'. Annas is quite right to find that the contrast expressed here as that between the  psuche- and the body is properly that between the rational part of the  psuche-  and the irrational part together with the body. This in itself does not show, however, that Epicurus identifies the person with the rational part of the psuche- -  any  more  than  it  would  had  Epicurus  claimed  that  ear-ache  is  more  painful  than indigestion. 
9 Translation M. F. Smith. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
p h y s i c a l i s m   a n d   m a t e r i a l i s m 547
qualifies  as  a  materialist.  (This  is  consistent  with  his  acceptance  of  the existence of void, since there are in his system no individual substances which are constituted of void.)
'Physicalism' is more di√cult to define, if only because it is more frequently, and more variously, used. Clearly, for the application of the term to a theory of the mind to have any point, the theory must give some sort of priority to the physical over the mental - but di◊erent physicalist theories may attribute di◊erent sorts of priority. So, one type of physicalism is simply an analogue of materialism and holds that all events are physical -
that is, they satisfy physical descriptions. This sort of physicalism gives ontological priority to the physical: it maintains that every mental event is identical with some physical event. Alternatively, one can still maintain a physicalist account of the mental whilst denying that mental events are identical with physical events if one accords a causal or explanatory priority to the physical over the mental. 
Explanatory physicalism need not, of course, exclude ontological physicalism:  someone  who  accepts  the  latter  is  very  likely  to  accept,  in McDowell's words, that 'under their physical descriptions, all events are susceptible of total explanations, of the kind paradigmatically a◊orded by physics, in terms of physical laws and other physically described events'.10
Explanatory physicalism does not require ontological physicalism, however. Whilst McDowell's characterization of physicalism allows that all events have physical descriptions, it can be modified to accommodate an abandonment  of  that  identity  claim.  If  one  accepts  that  all  events  are either physical events or are non-causally determined by physical events, then one can maintain that even those events which are not physical can still  be  explained  by  reference  to  physical  laws  and  other,  physically described,  events.11 In  this  case,  however,  the  total  explanation  would also require reference to specifications of which mental events are determined by which physical events. On such an account, the physical is given 10 McDowell 1980, 128. See McDowell 1985, section 7, for a rejection of ontological physicalism. 
11 Some have found the notion of non-causal determination obscure. What I have in mind is the sort of dependency of the mental on the physical which, following Davidson 1980, 214, is called
'supervenience' - so that, if one set of properties supervene on another, two objects cannot be identical in respect of the latter whilst di◊ering in respect of the former and an object cannot alter in respect of the former without altering in respect of the latter. Thus, if, for instance, we take liquidity to supervene on molecular structure, two substances could not di◊er in respect of liquidity without di◊ering in molecular structure and a substance could not change in respect of its liquidity without an alteration in its molecular structure. (The example is from Heil 1992, ch. 3.) Thus, although the molecular structure determines the liquidity, we should not say that the  structure  and  the  liquidity  stand  in  a  causal  relation.  See,  however,  Charles  1992  for  an important tightening-up of the notion of supervenience. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
548
e p i c u r e a n   p s y c h o l o g y
explanatory  priority  over  the  mental,  since  whilst  any  mental  state  or change will be explicable by reference to physical states or changes, the corollary will not be true. 
It  will  be  noted  that  these  characterizations  of  physicalism  have  not sought to explicate the notion of the physical itself. In fact, that notion is considerably less determinate than is often supposed in discussions of the relation between mental and non-mental events.12 Whilst mental events can be taken to be those which involve intentionality or consciousness, there  are  no  similar  criterial  features  of  physical  properties  and  events. 
Until we have a complete physics, we do not know which predicates will be required for physical explanations - and so some principle is needed for discriminating physical from non-physical properties. We cannot, however, take physical predicates to be just those which are such as to feature in basic science, since if it turns out that mental properties are not reducible to some other kind of property (and neither ontological nor explanatory  physicalism  requires  the  reducibility  of  the  mental),  this  would mean that mental predicates would feature in basic science and so themselves  count  as  physical  predicates.  This  would  hardly  be  a  victory  for physicalism. 
The problem is that whilst one can ask perfectly good and determinate questions  about,  say,  the  relation  between  the  physiological  and  the chemical, or between the atomic and the sub-atomic, there is no determinate  set  of  'physical'  properties  or  events  such  that  one  can  usefully explore  the  relations  between  those  properties  and  other  sorts. 
Fortunately, for our present purposes, we do not need to come up with a definition  of  physical  properties  and  events  which  will  serve  to  distinguish these from all other sorts of property and event. The present issue is not whether all properties can be reduced or explained in terms of some basic set of properties but just how mental states and events are related to putatively  more  basic states and events. Thus, I shall take it that a description  counts  as  a  physical  description  if  it  can  be  satisfied  by  something which does not satisfy any mental description. The goal of physicalism, then, would be to show either (in the case of ontological physicalism) that one can describe all events without making use of mental descriptions or (for explanatory physicalism) that all events can be explained in non-mental  terms  -  terms,  that  is,  which  will  be  used,  more  generally,  for  the description and explanation of non-mental events. 
A physicalist theory of the mind, then, can be said to be one which gives 12 See Crane and Mellor 1990. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
p h y s i c a l i s m   a n d   m a t e r i a l i s m 549
either or both of ontological and explanatory priority to the physical over the mental. Now, materialism does not by itself require physicalism. One can  be  a  monist  about  substances,  accepting  that  every  substance  is  a material substance, without being a monist about events. Epicurus' commitment  in   Ep.  Hdt.  63  is  to  materialism  not  to  physicalism,  and  it  is worth noting that the general materialist claim in  Ep. Hdt. 39 that everything is bodies and void should not be taken to suggest a desire to reduce the behaviour of substances to the behaviour of their atomic parts. His claim is not that only  atoms  and void exist but that only  bodies  and void exist  -  and,  as  we  have  seen,  the   psuche-,  for  instance,  is  itself  a  body. 
Indeed,  Epicurus'  argument  for  his  materialist  claim  requires  that  the bodies in question are not atoms:
Moreover, the totality of things is bodies and void. That bodies exist is universally witnessed by perception itself, in accordance with which it is necessary to judge by reason that which is non-evident. ( Ep. Hdt. 39) Since  we  cannot  perceive  the  atoms  which  constitute  solid  objects,  the bodies referred to here must be those which are constituted by atoms and not the atoms themselves. Epicurus is thus not restricting his ontology to atoms  and  void  but  to  material  objects  (which  will  include  atoms)  and void.13
This is important, since although Epicurus certainly rejects the teleological explanation of the nature of a substance's parts by reference to the nature and activities of the substance,14 this does not mean that he thinks that the behaviour of a substance can be described simply by making reference to the behaviour of its parts.15 It remains open to him to accept that certain systems of atoms cannot be understood other than as  systems of atoms and that their behaviour is not describable merely as the con-glomeration of the behaviour of their constitutive atoms (although, again, this is consistent with his thinking that the behaviour of the system can be explained by reference to the interaction of its parts). Atomism is a thesis about the nature of the material constitution of things, it is not a thesis about  the  nature  of  the  things  which  have  material  constitutions. 
Consistently with his materialism, Epicurus can allow that living bodies 13 The point is made by Sedley 1988, 303. 
14 'Nothing has been engendered in our body in order that we might be able to use it. It is the fact of its being engendered that creates its use. Seeing did not exist before the lights of the eyes were  engendered,  nor  was  there  pleading  with  words  before  the  tongue  was  created'  (Lucr. 
iv.834-7). 
15 To put it in more Aristotelian terms (which are not Epicurus'): just because Epicurus denies the place of a substance's form in final explanation, he does not have to seek to expunge formal explanation in favour of material explanation. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
550
e p i c u r e a n   p s y c h o l o g y
have properties and act and be acted on in ways which other systems of atoms cannot and that such states and events are not identical with, nor simply sets of, states and events of their constituent atoms. 
iv Epicurean physicalism
Whilst Epicurus' psychological materialism may not itself commit him to physicalism, it is less obvious that his arguments for the material nature of the  psuche-  do not presuppose it. For the claim that the  psuche-  is a 'fine-structured body di◊used through the whole aggregate' ( Ep. Hdt. 63) is, after all, a highly theoretical one - despite Epicurus' assurance that it is supported by our perceptions and a◊ections ( pathe-). Certainly, the details of his account are not given in experience. What, then, are the arguments for it? That the  psuche-  has a material constitution is taken to follow from the fact that it can act and be acted upon:
It is impossible to think of the incorporeal  per se  except as void. And void can  neither  act  nor  be  acted  upon,  but  merely  provides  bodies  with motion  through  itself.  Consequently,  those  who  say  that  the   psuche-  is incorporeal  are  talking  nonsense.  For  if  it  were  like  that  it  would  be unable to act or be acted upon in any way, whereas as a matter of fact both these accidental properties are self-evidently discriminable in the psuche-. ( Ep. Hdt. 67)
We  know  from  experience  that  psychological  states  can  be  both  causes and e◊ects: that, for instance, my hand's moving towards the cigarette is caused by my desire to smoke and my fear is caused by the sight of the spider. What is changed and what produces change in these cases - the  psuche-
- must be material since only what is material can be an agent or patient of change. Now, this by itself does not imply that the changes which the relevant  substances  undergo  are  changes  which  involve  the  movement  of atoms.  What  underpins  the  principle  that  agents  and  patients  must  be material may just be that agency requires contact and that for two things to be in contact, they must both be material.16 Unless mental causation required atomic changes, however, it would be di√cult to see what could motivate this requirement - and when Epicurus turns to argue that the psuche-  has the particular constitution it does, it becomes apparent that he subscribes to some kind of physicalist theory of mental activity.17







So, Lucretius cites, for instance, the quickness of the mind as evidence 16 Lucretius, in arguing for the corporeality of the  psuche-, makes the point that the sort of changes which it e◊ects - the movement of the limbs, for instance - require contact (Lucr. iii.161-7). 
17 On Epicurus and causal explanation in general, see above, pp. 498-503. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
e p i c u r e a n   p h y s i c a l i s m
551
that the  animus  is 'exceedingly delicate and is constituted by exceedingly minute particles' (iii.179-80):
Nothing is seen to be done so swiftly as the mind determines it to be done  and  initiates;  therefore  the  mind  rouses  itself  more  quickly  than any of the things whose nature is seen plain before our eyes. But that which is so readily moved must consist of seeds exceedingly rounded and exceedingly minute, that they may be moved when touched by a small moving power. (Lucr. iii.182-8)
Lucretius moves from a datum of experience - that the mind produces its e◊ects more rapidly than any non-psychological cause produces its e◊ect
- and argues that this shows that the atoms of the  psuche-  are smaller and rounder than any other atoms. This rests on the general principle that the smaller and rounder an atom is the more easily it is a◊ected: 'so, insofar as bodies are extremely small and smooth, they enjoy mobility; but, alternatively, whatever is found to be heavier and rougher, is that much the more stable' (iii.199-202).18 Thus, since the mind is tremendously mobile, its atoms must be very small and round. 
This argument only goes through, however, if mental change requires change  at  the  atomic  level  -  if  mental  changes  could  occur  without changes to the atoms of the  psuche-, there would be no need for the atoms of the  psuche-  to be able to move at the speed with which an intention, say, leads  to  action.  This  does  not  show  that  Epicurus  accepts  that  my  currently  having  a  desire,  for  instance,  is  identical  with  the  atoms  of  my psuche-  having  a  certain  arrangement  but  it  does  suggest  strongly  that Epicurus accepts that atomic change determines mental change. He must accept that any mental change requires an atomic change - otherwise the demand  that  the   psuche-'s  atoms  are  the  most  mobile  atoms  would  be unsupported - and, unless he takes it that a substance's atomic changes determine  its  mental  changes,  he  would  seem  to  be  committed  to  an unmotivated parallelism between mental and atomic changes. 
Lucretius'  elucidation  of  how  the   psuche-  initiates  action  at  iv.877◊. 
confirms that atomic causation indeed underpins mental causation: Now I shall tell you . . . how it comes about that we can take steps forward when we want to, how we have the power to move our limbs, and what it is that habitually thrusts forward this great bulk that is our body. 
First, let me say, images ( simulacra) of walking impinge on our mind and 18 This is supported by a comparison of volatility of water with that of honey and the ease with which poppy seeds are blown around by wind with the stability enjoyed by stones. Water and poppy seeds are constituted by smaller and rounder atoms than are honey and stones. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
552
e p i c u r e a n   p s y c h o l o g y
strike it, as I explained earlier.19 It is after this that volition occurs. For no  one  ever  embarks  upon  any  action  before  the  mind  first  previews what it wishes to do, and for whatever it is that it previews there exists an image of that thing. So when the mind stirs itself to want to go forwards, it immediately strikes all the power of the spirit distributed all over the body  throughout  all  the  limbs  and  frame:  it  is  easily  done  because the spirit is firmly interlinked with it. Then the spirit in turn strikes the body, and thus gradually the whole bulk is pushed forward and moved. 
(Lucr. iv.877-91)
Action (generally) involves the movement of our limbs. The explanation of action, then, must show how the limbs are moved and this requires reference to physical causation. The  animus strikes  the  anima  which in turn strikes the body thus causing it to move. 
What  we  are  given  here  is  an  explanation  of  action  in  which  both atomic and mental terminology is employed. The  animus  obtains an image of what is intended and there is then a volition: this gives rise to movement in the  anima  which causes movement in the limbs. Now, it might seem  that  this  is  quite  consistent  with  a  theory  in  which  autonomous mental events (the reception of the image and the volition) cause atomic events (the movement of the spirit and the limbs) without any underlying atomic causation. There is, however, strong reason to doubt the putative autonomy of the mental here. The 'images' are indeed images in that they are pictures of what they represent - but they are also structures of very fine atoms. The solid objects around us are constantly emitting films of very fine and very quick-moving atoms whose arrangement is determined by the shape of the object from which they come.20 In order to perceive an object - or even to think of it - one needs to receive an image of it. The ability to be a◊ected by these is itself a sign of the  psuche-'s being constituted by very small atoms since if it were not, it could not be moved by the tiny atoms which make up the image (Lucr. iii.425-30). This, then, posits an  atomic  change in the case of the reception of images: the atoms of the psuche-  have to be su√ciently small to be moved by the atoms coming in from outside. Whilst in the case of perception, it is the  anima  which is initially a◊ected, in the case of thought, it seems that it is the  animus  itself (see Lucr. iv.745-8). Thus, in both perception and thought, the relevant part of the  psuche-  needs to undergo atomic change if it is to receive the required image. Mental change cannot occur without atomic change. 
19 Lucr. iv.722-75. Epicurus' term is  eido-la. 
20 See   Ep.  Hdt.  46;  47;  49;  and  Lucr.  iv.722-75.  Epicurus'  theory  of  perception  is  discussed  in Striker 1977, C. C. W. Taylor 1980, Asmis 1984, chs. 6-7, Everson 1990b and Annas 1992a, ch. 7. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
v o l u n t a r y   a c t i o n
553
Lucretius also explains the onset of emotions in terms of the e◊ective predominance of the di◊erent kinds of atom in the  animus: The  animus  also has that kind of heat which it takes on when it boils with anger and the eyes shine with a fiercer flame; it has plenty of cold wind, the companion of fear, which excites fright in the limbs and rouses the frame; and it has that state of the still air which is found in a tranquil chest and in a calm face. (Lucr. iii.288-93)21
In none of these examples does Lucretius explicitly  identify  the emotion with the material state, but it is at least clear that he takes those atomic states to  be  constantly  associated  with  their respective emotions. More particularly, it seems that the explanation for the e◊ects of the emotion will make reference to the accompanying material state - it is the cold, the
'companion' of fear, which excites the limbs. Now, neither Epicurus nor Lucretius  provides  any  general  specification  of  the  precise  relation between mental events and atomic events but the view which is suggested by this is one in which, whilst there are not mental-atomic identities, nevertheless  mental  events  are  determined  by  what  happens  to  the  atoms which  make  up  the   psuche-.  That  the   animus  is  hot,  say,  is  su√cient  for anger and, since anger is always accompanied by this material state, it is also necessary. The anger is not an e◊ect of the heating but rather at least supervenes upon it and may be identical with it.22 Even if this does not make  mental  states  or  events  identical  with  atomic  states  or  events (although  this  is  still  open  to  Epicurus),  it  nevertheless  o◊ers  a  firmly physicalist account of the mind, since a person's mental states are determined by the states of his atoms and atomic change is required for mental change. If this is Epicurus' view, then he would not allow that an animal could have had the same atomic but a di◊erent mental history. 
v Voluntary action
Unless  Epicurus  accepted  at  least  a  physicalism  according  to  which atomic change is explanatorily prior to mental change, he would not be able to draw the conclusions he does about the material constitution of the  psuche-. It would be unfortunate, then, if, when he comes to defend 21 He goes on to explain the possession of di◊erent emotional dispositions in terms of di◊erent material  constitutions  of  the   psuchai  of  di◊erent  species  (iii.294-306).  Epicurus,  it  seems, agrees with the Aristotelian thesis that the material basis of anger involves boiling, although whereas Aristotle takes it to be the blood around the heart which boils, Epicurus, in taking the psuche-  to be a body, can attribute the boiling to the  psuche-  itself. 
22 For the relation of supervenience, see above, n. 11. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
554
e p i c u r e a n   p s y c h o l o g y
human responsibility against a certain kind of determinism, he were to have renounced physicalism - yet this is just what some have taken him to have done in  On Nature  Book 25.23 So, David Sedley has argued that the account  of  mental  states  presented  there  is  that  of  'radically  emergent properties'; properties which emerge given a certain degree of material complexity. So, 'matter can, [Epicurus] holds, acquire entirely new, non-physical  properties,  not  governed  by  the  laws  of  physics'.24 Although mental states fall outside the laws governing the behaviour of atoms, they are not causally inert but can actually bring about changes at the atomic level. On this interpretation, Epicurus turns out to hold a decidedly non-physicalist view of the mental. Not only are mental states and events not to be identified with atomic states and events but they have a causal power which is independent of the atoms of which the person is constituted. The mental  is  not  even  supervenient  on  the  atomic  -  so  that  an  animal  can undergo mental change without needing to undergo atomic change and two  animals  could  share  all  relevant  atomic  properties  but  di◊er  mentally.25
Fortunately, whilst Epicurus is certainly concerned in these fragments to validate our preconception ( prole-psis) that we are responsible for our actions, it is far from obvious that he seeks to achieve this through any denial of physicalism.26 What encourages the view that Epicurus denies physicalism in  On Nature  Book 25 is that he draws a contrast between a person's  atomic  constitution  and  what  he  calls  'developments'  which happen  to  the  person.  We  are  responsible  for  actions  when  they  come about because of such developments:
These (developments) are therefore a main target of our attacks and criticisms, because we . . . behave in accordance with the original, disturbing nature, as is the case with animals as a whole. For the nature of the atoms 23 See above, pp. 523-4. We have a series of papyrus fragments ( PHerc. 697, 1056, 1191) which deal with voluntariness and responsibility and which come from Epicurus'  On Nature. Sedley 1974
argued that the book was either 5, 25, or 35 and Laursen 1987 has managed to read the title of PHerc. 697 so that it says 'Epicurus on Nature 25'. Readings of these texts are given in Arrighetti 1973 (Arr.2) in section [34] - and I will use this numbering for reference here. Laursen 1987 also argued that three further papyri should be taken to come from this book:  PHerc. 419, 1420 and 1634. See now Laursen 1995. 
24 Sedley 1988, 322-3. See also his 1983b and Long and Sedley 1987, vol. i, 109-10. 
25 Cf. Long and Sedley 1987, vol. i, 110. That this is still consistent with taking Epicurus to be a materialist only shows how little that position commits one to. Long and Sedley themselves note that 'the familiar "materialist" label is beginning to fit Epicurus less neatly' - but it is not entirely clear what materialism is intended to amount to here. 
26 Indeed, because of the di√culties involved both in reading and in interpreting these texts, it cannot be said that anything is obvious in them. Given this, there is in any case some reason to hesitate  before  using  them  to  build  interpretations  which  are  not  already  secured  by  other, more tractable, texts. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
v o l u n t a r y   a c t i o n
555
never did help them in any way to (perform) certain acts or to (develop) certain dimensions of acts and dispositions, but the developments themselves were fully or for the most part responsible for these particulars . . . 
Consequently, whenever something develops which takes on some distinction among the atoms in a di◊erential way which is not like that from another distance, it/he acquires the cause out of it/himself;27 then it/he gives it on immediately until it comes to the first natures and in some way makes all of it one.28 (Ep.  Nat. xxv, [34] 21-2 Arr.2) One thing should be obvious from the translation here and this is that the text is not one which is easily construed either in detail or even in terms of its general line of argument. Epicurus is addressing someone who seeks to excuse bad behaviour by explaining it as the result of atomic causation. 
Epicurus'  response  is  to  distinguish  between  behaviour  which  is  to  be explained by reference to someone's atomic nature and behaviour which is brought about by 'developments' which occur, or have occurred, to that person. 
It is tempting to find in Epicurus' talk of such developments the postulation of non-atomic properties or events - 'emergent' properties which are neither identical with nor determined by the states of a person's constituent  atoms  but  which  nevertheless  produce  e◊ects  on  those  atoms. 
The threat to responsibility posed by atomic determinism would thus be averted since there would be events which were themselves 'not governed by the laws of physics'29 - such as volitions - but which are able to initiate the movements of atoms. When behaviour is caused by these events, then it  would  be  behaviour  for  which  the  agent  is  responsible  and  which  is done  freely.  On  this  reading,  Epicurus'  solution  depends  upon  leaving mental  events  and  states  undetermined  by  atomic  events  since,  if  they were atomically determined they would thereby be brought within the laws of physics and the determinist's case would not be met. The physicalism assumed in the  Ep. Hdt. could only be maintained at the cost of denying human responsibility - and that would violate our  prole-pseis.30
Such a reading of the passage from  On Nature  Book 25 is not forced on us, however, and if it can be read in such a way that it does not deny physicalism, this would clearly be preferable. One point which can immediately  be  noted  is  that  Epicurus  is  concerned  in  these  texts  not  with 27 It is not obvious what the subject of the sentence is. Long and Sedley understand it as the agent, but this is doubted by Laursen 1988, 14-15. 
28 The translation is adapted from that given in Laursen 1988, with some help from that given in Annas 1993b, 56-7. Long and Sedley's translation is given as their 20b1-5. See above, pp. 523-4. 
29 See Sedley 1988, 322. 
30  Prole-pseis  are one of the criteria of truth according to Epicurus. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
556
e p i c u r e a n   p s y c h o l o g y
freedom as such but rather with responsibility: his aim here is to show that we are accountable for our actions and not that our actions are undetermined.  The  determinism  he  is  attacking  is  one  which  seeks  to  deny moral responsibility by claiming that human actions are really only the result of  atomic  causation. Epicurus can attack this argument without having to take on determinist claims more generally. Indeed, when Epicurus was concerned to deny determinism as such, he seems to have done so by postulating indeterminacy precisely at the atomic and not the psychological level. Thus, according to Cicero, 
Epicurus  thinks  that  the  necessity  of  fate  is  avoided  by  the  swerve  of atoms  .  .  .  That  this  swerve  occurs  without  a  cause  he  is  forced  to admit in practice even if not in so many words . . . Epicurus' reason for introducing  this  theory  was  his  fear  that,  if  the  atom's  motion  was always the result of natural and necessary weight, we would have no freedom, since the mind would be moved in whatever way it was compelled by the motion of atoms. (Cic.  Fat. 22-3)
It is quite clear from this report that Epicurus accepted that unless there were indeterminacy at the atomic level, psychological states and events would  be  determined  by  atomic  motion.  If  it  were  Epicurean  doctrine that  determinism  was  false  because  mental  events  have  a  causal  power which is independent of atomic causation, then Cicero's report would be seriously misleading.31
Rather than seeing Epicurus' argument in the fragments of  On Nature 25  as  directed  against  the  position  that  all  events  are  determined,  one should rather take it as denying the more specific claim that the explanation of action should properly only make reference to events described in terms  of  the  movement  of  atoms.  In  a  second,  and  even  more  di√cult, fragment  from   On  Nature  25,  Epicurus  seems  to  maintain  that  it  is su√cient  to  defeat  his  determinist  opponent  to  show  that  what  is explained  is  human  action  and  that  such  behaviour  is  caused  by  the psychological states of the agent rather than (just) by the movements of the agent's constituent atoms:
For this sort of account is self-refuting, and can never prove that everything is of the kind called 'necessitated'; but he debates this very ques-31 Cicero, of course, is a somewhat hostile critic but his report is confirmed by Lucr. ii.251-60, where again the claim is made that unless there is a type of atomic motion which 'breaks the decrees of fate', then there will not be free volition. If mental events were neither supervenient on, nor identical with, atomic events but were nevertheless able to produce atomic e◊ects, there would be no need to introduce the swerve. For fuller discussion of the role of the swerve, see above, pp. 522-6. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
v o l u n t a r y   a c t i o n
557
tion on the assumption that his opponent is responsible for talking nonsense. And even if he goes on to infinity saying that this action of his is in turn necessitated, always appealing to arguments, he is not taking it [sc. 
his thesis] into account so long as he goes on imputing to himself the responsibility for having reasoned correctly and to his opponent that for having reasoned incorrectly. But unless he were to stop attributing his action to himself and to pin it on necessity instead, he would not even be
. . . (Ep.  Nat. xxv, [34] 28 Arr.2)
The determinist, who claims that everything is 'necessitated', is inconsistent if he judges his opponent for, as he sees it, reasoning incorrectly. This would require that the opponent is responsible for the reasoning and so would be inconsistent with his denial of human responsibility. His opponent, however, has no trouble in this respect, since he is precisely maintaining that agents are responsible for their actions. There is no reason to take the responsibility in question here to be other than causal (and hence moral) responsibility and, if this is right, then a 'necessitated' event is not just any event which is causally determined but an event which is determined by atomic motion  rather than  by an agent's volition.32
Read in this way, these texts need present no straightforward di√culty for Epicurean physicalism.33 Epicurus would not be denying that mental events are determined by atomic events nor asserting that there can be mental causation in the absence of atomic causation. Rather, he would be emphasizing  that  one  cannot  understand  the  behaviour  of  certain  systems of atoms - i.e. humans - without describing it as the behaviour of a system - i.e. of the person - and so as having psychological causes. In any case of psychological causation, there will be events at the atomic level without which the psychological events would not occur, but a proper explanation cannot be given unless it makes reference to the psychological  events  -  and  these  latter  events  are  not  identical  with  any  of  the atomic events. The mental is ineliminable but it is not causally autonomous.34
32 Later in the passage, Epicurus seems to say that if the determinist were to call an event 'necessitated' in virtue of its being brought about by the agent then he would be changing the meaning of the word - see  Nat.  xxv, [34] 29 Arr.2
33 The reading also removes the need to determine the precise contrast between the developments and the constitution of the atoms. As Annas notes (1993b, 58), the constitution could be understood either as the animal's original constitution - i.e. that with which it is born - or to 'the constitution, on each occasion, prior to the information received from the environment'. Her paper provides a much fuller discussion of these issues than is possible here. 
34 The shortness of this discussion obviously belies both the importance and the di√culty of these texts. Detailed discussion of Long and Sedley's interpretation can be found in Laursen 1988
and there is further discussion in Annas 1991, 1992a and 1993b. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
558
e p i c u r e a n   p s y c h o l o g y
vi Conclusion
Epicurus' arguments for his claims about the atomic constitution of the psuche-  require a physicalism about mental events. His arguments against the denial of responsibility to humans require that mental events be cited in the causal explanation of certain actions. What needs to be shown is what the relation between mental and atomic events is if mental events can act as causes without being causally autonomous. Earlier, I drew a distinction between what I called 'ontological physicalism' and 'explanatory physicalism': according to the first, mental events are a species of physical event and themselves satisfy physical descriptions. Explanatory physicalism, in contrast, does not require that mental events should be identical with physical events - merely that all events should be explicable by reference to physical events. Thus, even if one denied, say, that the action of my raising my arm (a mental event) were identical with my arm's rising or any other physical event (or set of physical events), one could still maintain that the action can be explained by reference to certain physical events -
those on which it supervenes. The problem for a theorist who maintains this  sort  of  account,  however,  is  in  securing  the  place  of  mental  events within  the  causal  scheme.  For  if  all  events  are  either  physical  events  or supervene on physical events and all physical events have physical events as causes (if they are caused at all), then the only events which will enter into causal explanations will be physical events. Although mental events will be determined by physical events (the physical history of the world could not have been the same and the mental history di◊erent), this will be  a  non-causal  determination.  Even  a  complete  causal  explanation  of every event which has occurred would have no place for mental events. 
The only way to secure a place for mental events within causal explanation would be to allow gaps in the causal chain of physical events - gaps which would be filled by mental events. This would be to give up physicalism. 
For  a  theorist  such  as  Aristotle,  who  maintains  the  teleological  claim that the relevant physical events happen in order to instantiate the mental events which they constitute, there may be a way round this problem.35
This sort of teleological claim, however, is explicitly rejected by Epicurus and there is no sign of his having attempted to fill the gap it would leave in accommodating the mental within the causal scheme of things. In the light of this, we have reason to find in Epicurus not merely an explanatory but also  an  ontological  physicalism.  The  events  studied  by  the  Epicurean 35 See Everson 1994b,  ad fin., for a brief discussion of this possibility. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
c o n c l u s i o n
559
psychologist would then be a species of the events susceptible to physical enquiry. Mental events are not causally inert since they are identical with atomic events and these are not causally inert. Although it would be possible to provide a causal explanation of any event merely by reference to its physical causes, one would not understand the behaviour of people  as  the behaviour of responsible agents (which we know they are) without making use of the mental descriptions which certain physical events satisfy.36
36 I have benefited from the comments of Hugh Johnstone on an earlier version of this section. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
17
Stoic psychology
a .   a .   l o n g
i Introduction
As the previous chapter has shown, Epicurean psychology is physicalist in ways  that  have  some  a√nity  to  contemporary  use  of  that  explanatory model.  The  Stoic  theory  is  harder  to  characterize  though  no  less  intriguing so far as scientific and philosophical issues are concerned. Modern western  thinkers  are  likely  to  find  the  Stoics  to  be  considerably  more sophisticated than the Epicureans in analysing the faculties and subjective content of the mind but less plausible than their rivals in accounting for the mind's ontological foundations. By way of introduction, we may note some striking similarities and di◊erences between the two theories. 
Like  the  Epicureans,  the  Stoics  identify  the  principle  of  sentient  life with  a  corporeal   psuche-.1 In  both  theories  the   psuche-  is  distributed throughout the limbs and organs of the animal, whether human or non-human. Like the Epicureans again, they draw a sharp distinction between the human mind (which they call 'thought' or the 'governing part' of the psuche-),  located  in  the  heart,2 and  the  rest  of  the   psuche- (the  'spirit'  in Lucretius' Epicurean terminology), situated in all the other parts of the body. Ignoring di◊erences of detail concerning the relation between the mind and the rest of the  psuche-, we have something broadly analogous in both theories to the modern allocation of functions to the brain and the central nervous system respectively. 
The physical constituency of the Stoic  psuche-, together with its functional  division  into  governing  and  instrumental  parts,  di◊erentiates  it sharply  from  the  psychology  of  Aristotle  as  well  as  Plato.  However, the Stoics'  similarity  in  these  respects  to  Epicurus  should  not  be  over-emphasized. Epicurus, as I understand him, takes mental capacity to be a supervenient property of the atomic aggregate which constitutes human 1 For a selection and brief discussion of the basic texts, see Long and Sedley 1987, vol. i, 313-23; for further treatment, see Annas 1992a, 37-70. 
2 See below, p. 567. 
[560]
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
i n t r o d u c t i o n
561
and  non-human  animals  as  the  living  bodies  that  they  are.  Atoms  as such are  lifeless  bodies.  In  Stoicism  by  contrast,  life  and  mind  are  not properties  that  supervene  on  physical  principles  which  are  inanimate themselves.  Taken  as  a  whole,  the  world  at  its  most  basic  level  of  existence,  according  to  the  Stoics,  is  an  intelligent  organism.  The  world's
'active principle', also called God, is irreducibly physical  and  mental. The Stoic God is not a body primarily and a mind secondarily. It is his nature to be an intelligent body.3
The term that will get us on this track in approaching the Stoic theory of mind is vitalism. They identify the entire  psuche-, of which the 'governing part' in humans is mind, with  pneuma. This gaseous substance permeates  all  the  world's  grosser  'matter'  (Alex.  Mixt.  216.  14-17).4 Since pneuma, viewed universally, is identical to God, the intelligent life of God is  omnipresent  throughout  the  world  (D.L.  vii.137-8).  This  does  not mean that  pneuma  confers an individual life or mind on every part of the world where it is present. The  psuche-  is  pneuma  that has a special kind of constituency or 'tension'. This particular  pneuma  begins its life at the birth of the animal. Yet unlike the Epicurean  psuche-,  the Stoic animating principle, at least in the case of humans, is a living being in its own identity as psuche- (Stob.  ii.65.1-2).  Although  it  permeates  and  acts  in  conjunction with the organic parts of the body, the mental life that the Stoic  psuche-
facilitates to the whole organism is its own property. In human beings, as distinct  from  other  animals,  the  pneumatic   psuche-  withdraws  from  the body at death and survives on its own for a time. 
The Stoics have left us little to show what this means and how it is possible.5 It  looks  partly  like  a  vestige  of  Platonism,  and  comparison with  Plato  is  appropriate  for  other  reasons.  While  literally  corporeal, unlike the Platonic  psuche-, psychic  pneuma  resembles the world soul of Plato's  Timaeus (34b) in being 'extended' throughout the entire organism. There is no part of a human or non-human animal's frame that is impervious to its  psuche-, a point the Stoics illustrated by adducing the way heat can totally interpenetrate a lump of iron (Alex.  Mixt. 218.1-2). 
Unlike Epicurean atoms, which are discrete and impenetrable, psychic pneuma  is literally continuous with the body's matter. Translated into 3 For texts that justify these assertions see D.L. vii.134-6, Aët. i.7.33, Plu.  Stoic. Rep.  1052c-d (Zeus or God as the soul of the world); see above, p. 384 and p. 435. 
4 See above, p. 391. 
5 For evidence and discussion of the post-mortem existence of the human  psuche-, see Hoven 1971. 
Only the  psuche-  of the wise survives fully intact, up to the end of the world; see Sedley 1992b, 149, who is no doubt right in suggesting that what enables the disembodied  psuche-  of the wise to persist is its perfected rationality which, viewed purely physically, is the strong coherence of its  pneuma. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
562
s t o i c   p s y c h o l o g y
Latin as  spiritus, and influencing the early fathers of the Church, Stoic pneuma  contributed to the concepts of a spiritual body and the spirit as distinct  from  the  body.  Like  Plato  (and  with  support  from  Heraclitus and  Plato's  Socrates)  the  Stoics  tend  to  identify  a  human  being  with psuche-,  or at least with the principle's 'governing part'. They trade on this  doctrine  when  they  seek  to  justify  the  indi◊erence  of  everything that concerns the body so far as human excellence is concerned. 
These general points show that the Stoics have a model of the  psuche-
which is scarcely detachable from the goals of their philosophy as a whole. 
What they are looking for is a theory that fits their intuitions about  pneuma physics (which is also the mind-directed structure of the world) and the special faculties human beings have been providentially given as the means of living well in such a world. Their theory of the mind is designed to show not merely what our mental faculties are or how they function but what they are for - to contribute to the rational life of the world, of which our life is a part, by doing everything we can to perfect our nature as rational beings. This amounts to saying that our normative nature as human beings is grounded in our minds as distinct from our bodies. 
Given  their  conception  of  the  mind  as  the  essential  bearer  of  human identity, we can expect the Stoics to advance a theory which emphasizes the unity or potential unity of all mental functioning. The way in fact that they do this was perhaps their greatest contribution to the philosophy of mind. What  should be clear, from  these preliminary remarks, is that at least three strands are combined in their theory - physicalism that is functionally similar to that of Epicurus, vitalism or pantheism, and an ethical a√nity to Platonic dualism. The challenge for a modern interpreter is to keep a proper perspective on all of these strands while, at the same time, remaining sensitive to Stoic contributions which are fruitful irrespective of their role in any general theory of the mind. 
ii The physical structure of the  psuche
 - and its
location in the body
Our evidence for Stoic psychology during the school's creative phase is extremely uneven in its range and detail. For many of the more technical concepts we are dependent on brief and scattered references by compilers or philosophers who were not Stoics. However, on certain matters we are unusually well informed. Thanks to extensive quotations by Galen in his work  On the Doctrines of Plato and Hippocrates ( PHP) we can read excerpts of what  Chrysippus  wrote  in  two  of  his  lost  works,  On  the  Soul  and   On Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
-
t h e   p s u c h e :   i t s   p h y s i c a l   s t r u c t u r e   a n d   l o c a t i o n 563
 Emotions.6 Another first-hand source is Hierocles.7 Though this Stoic philosopher wrote during the second century ad, his systematic remarks on the   psuche-  cohere  well  with  our  more  summary  evidence  for  earlier Stoicism. What can be gleaned directly from Chrysippus and Hierocles naturally  requires  supplementation  from  other  material.  There  is  every reason, however, to give their words pride of place. 
*
At  the  beginning  of  his  work  entitled   Foundations  of  Ethics  Hierocles explains how the life of an animal begins at birth when  phusis, the vegetative principle governing a foetus, is transformed into  psuche-: In the early stages [of a foetus's life] the 'nature' ( phusis ) is  pneuma  of a rather dense kind and considerably distant from  psuche-; but later, when it is close to birth, it becomes more refined. . . So when it passes outside, it is adequate for the surrounding [air], with the result that, having been hardened thereby, it is capable of changing into  psuche-. For just as the pneuma  in  stones  is  immediately  kindled  by  a  blow,  on  account  of  its readiness for this change, so the  phusis  of a foetus, once it has ripened, does not hesitate to change into  psuche- on meeting the surrounding [air]. 
So  whatever  issues  from  the  womb  is  at  once  an  animal.  ( El.  Eth.  col. 
1.15-28; cf. Chrysippus,  ap. Plu.  Stoic. Rep. 1052f ) The Stoic  psuche- is the vital principle of animal  as distinct from  plant life. Its basic  functions,  as  Hierocles  indicates  a  few  lines  later,  are  sensation ( aisthe-sis) and impulse ( horme-). Of this pair, sensation is primary, a point emphasized  in  Stoic  descriptions  of  the   psuche-  as  'sentient  exhalation'
( aisthe-tike- anathumiasis).8 Some  Greek  philosophers,  notably  Aristotle, had attributed  psuche-  to plants as well as animals.9 In Aristotelian theory, there  is  psychic  continuity  between  animals  and  plants  in  respect  to metabolism and reproduction. Although most Stoics accept reproductive capacity as a part of the  psuche-, none of them assigns it a part specifically responsible  for  metabolism.10 Hierocles,  it  is  true,  says  that  the  foetal 6 References are to De Lacy 1984. 
7 For reference to Hierocles I draw on Bastianini and Long 1992a, for an afterthought on which see Bastianini and Long 1992b. Citations in the form col. 1. 21 etc. refer to the column and line numbers of the papyrus. 
8 This account of the  psuche- goes back to Zeno, and was interpreted by Cleanthes as a mark of the founder's a√nity to Heraclitus; cf. Eus.  PE  xv.20.2, and Long 1975-6, 151-2. 
9 Cf. Aristotle  de An. ii.4.415b23-416b29. Plato does so too in  Tim. 77b, but the plant  psuche-  has little bearing on Plato's psychology elsewhere. 
10 Panaetius was exceptional in assigning reproduction to 'nature' (Nemes. 212.6-8). This presumably means that he went a step further than his predecessors in narrowing the functions of specifically psychic, i.e. mental, life. See Tieleman 1996, 99. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
564
s t o i c   p s y c h o l o g y
 phusis  changes into  psuche-  at birth, but we should not take this to mean that the newly emerging  psuche-  simply inherits the pre-existing work of metabolism.11 Evidence from elsewhere shows that the Stoics normally attribute this function after birth to vegetative  pneuma  as distinct from psychic  pneuma (cf.  SVF  ii 458, 714, 716). A third kind of  pneuma, called hektikon ( SVF  ii 716) and manifested in minerals (as Hierocles observes), is responsible  for  the  coherence  of  bones  and  sinews.  The  three  kinds  of pneuma  must be assumed to co-operate in constituting an animal's total coherence  and  vital  functioning.  Indeed,  we  should  probably  suppose that  the  heart  is  the  primary  location  of  vegetative  as  well  as  psychic pneuma. However, the Stoics' main interest is not in details of physiology but in the functions of the  psuche-  as the principle of specifically sentient life. 
To translate  pneuma  as breath would misrepresent its highly theoretical nature  and  peculiar  dynamics.  Yet,  as  Hierocles  shows,  the  Stoics  have recourse to breath in its everyday sense when they identify the beginning of psychic life with a new-born creature's first inhalation. Blood too has a vital role to play in maintaining the pneumatic nature of the  psuche-. As we shall see shortly, Chrysippus went to great lengths to defend the heart as the location of the 'governing part' of the  psuche-. Breath, blood, heart -
these make an essential contribution to metabolism and to the 'nourishment' of the  psuche-, but it is neither identical with them nor supervenient on them.12 The psychic  pneuma  is an independent physical principle with causal powers intrinsic to itself. What the  psuche- bestows on an animal, in standard Stoic theory, is not vital capacity in its widest extension but the capacity to behave on the basis of sensation and impulse. 
This is a capacity, according to the Stoics, with which human beings as well as other animals, are fully endowed at birth. In the human case, however, the  psuche- gradually develops the additional capacity of reason ( logos; Orig.  Princ.  iii.1.2-3;  D.L.  vii.86).  It  is  the  presence  of  reason  that 11 For a detailed defence of this point, see Long 1982b, 42-6, and more briefly Annas 1992a, 54. 
The matter is further explored by Tieleman 1996, esp. 95-9. In a passage of Calcidius (220), purporting to cite Chrysippus, nutrition and growth are included among powers that the parts of the  psuche- (which are not specified) provide to the body. If this text, which seems to be without parallel, is accurate, we may take Chrysippus to be invoking a broader sense of  psuche-  than that which he generally used; see S.E.  M  vii.234 for a Stoic distinction between  psuche-,  as 'governing part' (i.e. mind), and  psuche-  as 'that which sustains the whole compound', with discussion by Long 1982b, 40-1. 
12 For the complex relation between heart and  psuche-, see Long 1982b, 43-9, and Tieleman 1996, 67-87. At least one Stoic, Diogenes of Babylon, argued that the governing part of the  psuche-
must  be  located  in  the  heart  because  the  heart  is  what  first  draws  in  nutriment  and   pneuma (Galen  PHP  ii.8.40). This attests to an intimate tie between the  psuche-  and the nutritive principle, but it stops short of identifying them. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
-
t h e   p s u c h e :   i t s   p h y s i c a l   s t r u c t u r e   a n d   l o c a t i o n 565
di◊erentiates human or divine  psuche-  from that of non-human animals. 
Another way of making the Stoics' point is that humans and God have minds but animals do not. Taken strictly, the Stoic theory of mind is a theory about what it means to have a rational  psuche-. 
Before exploring this point, the concept of  psuche-  as it pertains to all animals merits further examination. This is because the Stoics characteristically  elucidate  the  human   psuche-  by  considering  the  way  rationality modifies the capacities our species shares with other animals. Once again, we  may  adduce  Hierocles:  he  provides  the  fullest  account  of  how  any psuche- interacts with the body whose  psuche- it is.13
Since (1) an animal [including human beings] is a composite of body and psuche-, and (2) both of these are tangible and impressible and, of course, subject to resistance, and also (3) blended through and through, and (4) one of them is a sensory faculty which itself undergoes movement in the way we have indicated, it is evident that an animal perceives itself continuously. For by stretching out and relaxing, the  psuche-  makes an impact on all the body's parts, since it is blended with them all, and in making an impact  it  receives  an  impact  in  response.  For  the  body,  just  like  the psuche-, reacts to pressure; and the e◊ect is a state of their joint pressure upon, and resistance to, each other. From the outermost parts turning inward, the e◊ect travels. . . to the governing part in the chest, with the result that there occurs a grasp both of all the body's parts and those of the  psuche-. This is equivalent to the animal's perceiving itself. ( El. Eth. 
col. 4. 38-53)
In  this  fascinating  passage  Hierocles  is  summarizing  a  'theoretical'
argument he has been developing, to prove that animals 'perceive themselves continuously from the moment of birth'.14 His account is impressively consistent in its physicalism. The interaction of the body and the psuche-  is supported by two premisses [numbered (2) to (3) above] which pertain with equal validity to all 'unified bodies' including minerals and plants.15 Their  structure,  just  like  that  of  all  animals,  is  due  to  the
'through and through blending' of  pneuma  with grosser material. Psychic pneuma  functions like all other  pneuma  by 'stretching and relaxing', which is Hierocles' description of what the Stoics call 'tensional motion' ( tonike-
 kine-sis;  cf.  Alex.  Mant.  131.5).  Because  it  is  inherently  dynamic,  psychic 13 For more summary accounts, see Alex.  Mixt. 216.25-217.2, Nemes. 78.7-79.2. 
14 'Self-perception'  is  the  foundation  of  an  animal's  self-preserving  disposition,  its   oikeio-sis  to itself  (D.L.  vii.85,  Cic.  Fin.  iii.16);  cf.  Bastianini  and  Long  1992a,  381-5  and  Long  1993b, 93-104. 
15 For the concept of 'unified bodies', see  SVF  ii 366-8 with discussion by Long 1982b, 36-41, and Annas 1992a, 50-1. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
566
s t o i c   p s y c h o l o g y
 pneuma 'makes an impact' on the bodily frame, and because it is corporeal itself it is a◊ected by any way in which it is impacted by the bodily frame. 
Psychic  pneuma  di◊ers from other  pneuma  not in its basic mode of blending with grosser bodily structures, but by the 'tension' (one is tempted to say 'wave-length') of its motion.16 The special tension of psychic  pneuma  is reported in Hierocles' fourth premiss, where it is identified as 'a sensory faculty'. If we may fantasize briefly, an expert in  pneuma  physics should be capable, in principle, of identifying psychic  pneuma, and therefore its sentient power, by measuring its 'tensional motion'. The e◊ect of this 'through and through' blending of psychic  pneuma  with an animal's body is an interaction (the Greek is  pathos, which I translate by 'e◊ect') that becomes 'self-perception' when it is transmitted to the 'governing part' of the  psuche-. 
The power of the  psuche-  to govern the whole animal is its constant and dynamic  contact  with   all  the  animal's  parts.  Hierocles'  'empirical'  support for self-perception is drawn mainly from what we would call muscu-lar and reflex activity - for instance a stag's use of its legs, rather than its antlers, as its best means of self-defence ( El. Eth.  col.2.46-3.2). The stag's impulse to avoid danger by flight requires us to suppose that the stag's psuche-  stretches  itself  into  the  animal's  legs,  which  are  then  caused  to move and transmit the sensation of running back to the  psuche-. However, in  the  section  immediately  following  our  extract  Hierocles  argues  that self-perception is at work during every moment of an animal's life including even the times when it is asleep ( El. Eth. col. 4.54-5.30). Self-perception  is  not  only  an  animal's  capacity  to   be  aware  of  its  psychosomatic condition; it is also an animal's continuous disposition to monitor itself without necessarily registering any specific sensation. 
Later, too, Hierocles argues that 'the sentient principle' (i.e., psychic pneuma), like the pneumatic principles controlling plants and minerals, is self-activating by its very nature ( El. Eth.  col. 6, 10-22). Psychic  pneuma, then, though it confers sentience on an animal's body, is a sentient power intrinsically, by virtue of the kind of  pneuma  that it is. Here we witness the vitalist strand of the Stoic theory, which I alluded to in my introduction. 
The independent existence of the  psuche-  as a substance in its own right is also presupposed by its 'through and through' blending with the body; for  in  that  kind  of  mixture  the  constituents,  though  interpenetrating completely, retain their own identities and are, at least theoretically, separable from one another (Alex.  Mixt. 216.25-217.2).17
*
16 For diversity of 'tension', see Annas 1992a, 51-4. 
17 See above, p. 390. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
-
t h e   p s u c h e :   i t s   p h y s i c a l   s t r u c t u r e   a n d   l o c a t i o n 567
Having  now  established  the  basic  properties  of  psychic   pneuma,  let  us turn to an excerpt of what Chrysippus said about the  psuche-  in his  Peri psuche-s ('On the Soul'). Galen, our source for the passage, reports that in the first half of his first book Chrysippus dealt with the 'substance' of the psuche- ( PHP  iii.1.16). Galen does not say what this involved. It is a fair conjecture that Chrysippus began by surveying the views of earlier thinkers, and then presented reasons for such basic Stoic doctrines as the corporeal  substance  of  the   psuche- (Nemes.  78.7-79.2,  81.6-10)  and  the identification of this with  pneuma. In the second half of the book, Galen says, Chrysippus dealt with the 'governing part', and attempted to establish its location in the heart. Chrysippus began this project as follows: The  psuche-  is  pneuma  integral to our nature, extending continuously throughout the entire body as long as the regular breath of life is present in the body. Of the parts of the  psuche- which are assigned to each segment of the body, the one that extends to the throat is voice; that to the eyes, sight; that to the ears, hearing; that to the nostrils, smell; that to the tongue, taste; that to the entire flesh, touch; and that which extends to the genital organs, since it has a di◊erent principle, is seminal. The heart is the location of the part where all these meet, which is the governing part of the  psuche-. That is our doctrine. But while there is agreement about the other parts, people disagree about the governing part of the  psuche- and have di◊erent theories about its location. Some say it is in the region of the chest, others in the head. They also disagree among themselves about where it is located in the head or the chest. Plato, who said that the  psuche- has three parts, placed the rational part in the head, the spirited part in the region of the chest and the appetitive part in the region of the navel. Thus the place [of the  psuche-]
seems to elude us since we have neither a clear perception of it, as we had with the others, nor indications from which its location might be deduced. 
Otherwise there would not have been so much disagreement among physicians and philosophers. (Gal.  PHP  iii.1.10-15)18
It  is  clear  from  this  passage  that  Chrysippus  does  not  anticipate  disagreement over his general model of the  psuche-- its pneumatic nature, the identification  of  its  parts,  and  their  centring  in  a  'governing  part'. 
Important in explaining his procedure, including his focus on the governing part's location, is the Stoics' indebtedness to contemporary medicine and  also  (less  directly  perhaps)  to  Peripatetic  theory.19 By  the  time  of 18 For detailed discussion of this passage, with important comments on Chrysippus' dialectical approach  (recalling  Aristotle's  methodology),  see  Mansfeld  1989c,  esp.  311-14,  334-42  and 1990a, 3167-77. 
19 For detailed discussion, see Annas 1992a, 17-33. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
568
s t o i c   p s y c h o l o g y
Chrysippus there was general agreement among physicians that at least some of the body's vital functions are due to  pneuma, conceived as a warm, vaporous  substance  transmitted  through  the  arteries.  Aristotle,  though he did not identify the  psuche-  with  pneuma, drew on the concept, especially for explaining the transmission of psychic activity into purposive bodily movement. The later Peripatetic Strato held that  pneuma  is spread throughout  the  body  and  has  a  'governing  part'  in  the  head.  Among Hellenistic  physicians  the  use  made  of   pneuma  was  complicated  by Herophilus'  and  Erasistratus'  remarkable  discoveries  concerning  the nerves. They succeeded in isolating the nerves from the cardio-vascular system and connecting them with the brain. But instead of abandoning the concept of  pneuma, Erasistratus took the nerves to be channels containing  pneuma  responsible for sensory and motor functions.20 He distinguished this  pneuma, issuing from the head, from the  pneuma  responsible for metabolism, which he centred in the heart. (One should compare the Stoics' distinction between psychic and vegetative  pneuma. ) Chrysippus,  Galen  reports,  disclaimed  any  knowledge  of  anatomy ( PHP  i.6.13). In this respect we may liken him to a modern philosopher who  lacks  expertise  in  evaluating  the  findings  of  neuro-physiologists. 
Herophilus  and  Erasistratus  were  making  their  spectacular  discoveries during his lifetime. Chrysippus can scarcely be faulted for not appropriating their radical findings, of which he seems to have been well aware.21
Instead,  he  pinned  his  faith  on  an  earlier  Hellenistic  physician, Praxagoras. This man, not recognizing the independent function of the nerves, treated them as if they were the endings of the arteries. In the light of  his  mistaken  physiology,  Praxagoras  had  every  reason  to  opt  for  the heart rather than the head as the principal location of psychic  pneuma. 
Galen  reports  that  Chrysippus  cited  Praxagoras  against  those  who thought that the nerves originate from the head ( PHP  i.7.1). The theorists referred to no doubt include Herophilus and Erasistratus.22 Chrysippus had his own reasons, to which we shall come, for preferring the heart to the  head  as  the  organ  in  which  the   psuche-  is  centred.  In  drawing  on 20 Herophilus' position on the nerves is less clear. He may have regarded them as quasi sinews for manipulating the muscles; see Mansfeld 1992d, 140. 
21 If we may believe Galen ( PHP  ii.5.71), Chrysippus did not ignore the theory that the head is the source of the nerves. He argued that even if that theory is true, it does not prove that the head, rather than the heart, is the starting-point of psychic activity; see Mansfeld 1992d, 140-1, who shows how Chrysippus could defend himself for rejecting the nerves as channels for the  pneuma, and see Tieleman 1996, 51-2. 
22 Note, however, that the Hippocratic author of the treatise  On the Sacred Disease (17) had already identified the brain as the source of emotions and mental activity. Aristotle on the other hand, just like Chrysippus, put these in the heart. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
-
t h e   p s u c h e :   i t s   p h y s i c a l   s t r u c t u r e   a n d   l o c a t i o n 569
Praxagoras for his physiology, Chrysippus was able to develop a theory of the  psuche-  that is highly economical (since it explains all life functions by pneuma) and has the further advantage of identifying a single organ, the heart, as an animal's vital centre. The philosophy of mind that he developed on the basis of this physiology is not seriously vitiated by its errors over the brain and the nerves. Chrysippus' most interesting contributions could  fit  a  brain-centred  model  of  mind  just  as  well  as  a  cardiovascular one. 
It would be a mistake to take Chrysippus and other Stoics to be merely synthesizing pre-existing concepts of  pneuma. As the divine 'active principle' of the world in its entirety, Stoic  pneuma  has a thoroughly distinctive nature. What is important is to recognize Chrysippus' concern that his psychology should be as accommodating as possible to established scientific precedents. Another mark of his intellectual responsibility is his admission (in the passage cited) that the location of the 'governing part' is not only controversial but impossible to determine by 'clear perception'. 
Chrysippus recognizes that he will have to work hard in order to make a convincing case in favour of the heart. Since the matter was contested by experts,  he  advances  a  number  of  theoretical  and  empirical  considerations,  and supplements these by looking to support from ordinary language use, etymology and the statements of poets, especially Homer. 
Galen,  writing  four  centuries  later,  would  have  us  believe  that Chrysippus  made  heavy  weather  of  a  hopeless  task.23 Expert  as  he  was concerning the nervous system, Galen knew that the intellect was centred in the brain. However, Galen divided the  psuche-  into the three parts and distinct bodily locations Chrysippus mentions above as Plato's doctrine. 
Although Chrysippus was wrong in opting for the heart as the seat of the
'governing part', he intuited a truth that Galen missed in assigning appetency and emotion to parts of the  psuche-  spatially as well as ontologically distinct  from  reason.24 What  Chrysippus  was  adamant  to  prove  in  his work  On the Psuche- was not only a thesis about the location of the 'governing part'. This question is chiefly important to Chrysippus because of the bearing he takes it to have on the nature of that crucial part.25 In his view, 23 Tieleman 1996 should be consulted for a thorough study of Chrysippus' methodology, and for a convincing defence of it against much of Galen's polemic. 
24 Galen's psychology is much inferior to that of Chrysippus in accounting for the causal connection  of  thought  and  desire  to  action;  see  Mansfeld  1992d,  who  points  out,  143,  that  in  the Arabic abstract of a lost work Galen expresses indi◊erence as to whether the three independent principles are called 'separate souls' or 'parts' of one soul or 'three di◊erent faculties' of the
'same essence'. 
25 For the doxographic tradition concerning the question of the mind's location, see Mansfeld 1990a, 3092-106. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
570
s t o i c   p s y c h o l o g y
and that of most Stoics who followed him, the 'governing part' is responsible for everything that a Platonist like Galen distributes between distinct parts identified as reason, spirit and appetency. 
The Stoics' unification of all mental functions in the single 'governing part'  is  their  most  far-reaching  contribution  to  ancient  psychology. 
Before pursuing its details, we should consider the principal strategy they use in support of uniting what a Platonist would keep apart. Chrysippus, as we have seen, admits that perception is insu√cient to settle the question of where the 'governing part' is located in the body. He finds it 'reasonable', however, to infer that: 'Since anger arises here [in the heart], the other desires are here too, and indeed the remaining emotions and deliberations  and  such-like  things'  (Gal.  PHP  iii.5.2).  Common  opinion  too tells in favour of the heart as the region of the body where the emotions are felt:
I think that people in general are led to this belief because they are conscious, as it were, of their mental feelings taking place in the area of the chest and especially in the location of the heart - the sort of feelings especially  associated  with  grief  and  fear  and  anger  and  passion.  (Gal.  PHP
ii.7.8)
Not  only  introspective  experience  but  also  the  Greek  language,  as  in expressions like 'his heart boiled with anger', point to that region of the body as the seat of the emotions. Against Platonists, who admit this point, but assign separate locations to reason, spirit and appetency, Chrysippus and other Stoics advance an argument to show that their inference about the mind's location in the heart is not a  petitio principii, but a thesis that can be justified by considerations to do with reason as manifested in spoken language. 
It is reasonable that the destination of meanings and the source of discourse ( logos) is the governing part of the  psuche-. For the source of discourse is not di◊erent from the source of thought, nor again is the source of voice di◊erent from that of discourse, nor (to state the whole point simply) is the source of voice di◊erent from the governing part of the psuche-. For the entire source from which discourse issues must be where reasoning occurs and thinking and the preparation of language, as I said. 
But these latter plainly occur in the region of the heart since both voice and discourse issue forth from the heart through the windpipe. It is also plausible in addition that the place to which language conveys meaning should be where it acquires meaning and that words should come from there in the way described. (Gal.  PHP  ii.5.15-20)
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
-
t h e   p s u c h e :   i t s   p h y s i c a l   s t r u c t u r e   a n d   l o c a t i o n 571
This  argument,  which  I  cite  in  the  version  of  Chrysippus,  had  been already adumbrated by Zeno, and was further elaborated by Diogenes of Babylon,  who  took  over  the  headship  of  the  Stoa  from  Chrysippus.26
Galen is predictably scornful concerning the linkage made between the windpipe and the heart. The interest of the argument is not this egregious error, but the ties it assumes between language, reason and thought. For the Stoics, as for many philosophers, the decisive mark of mind is rationality as manifested in linguistic capacity. They were the only Greek philosophers who specified voice as a distinct part of the  psuche-. 
From  the  thesis  that  all  mental  functions  are  centred  in  the  heart,  it does not immediately follow either that they are all functions of the single
'governing part' of the  psuche-  or that the 'governing' part of the human psuche-  is  exclusively  a  rational  faculty.  The   psuche-  including  the  mind might, in principle, have a unitary centre but distinct faculties, rational and  irrational,  with  functions  corresponding  to  those  in  the  Platonic model. This alternative was adopted by the dissident Stoic, Posidonius.27
Orthodox  Stoics,  at  least  as  early  as  Chrysippus,  insist  on  two  much stronger claims: first, the 'governing part' of the human  psuche-  is a rational faculty, through and through; and second, its uniform rationality is quite compatible with, or rather, is the explanation for its being the locus of  emotion  and  appetency.  An  interpretation  of  these  radical  positions will concern us in the later part of the chapter. For the present, it will be best to conclude treatment of the mind's relation to the body. 
Chrysippus, as we have seen, specifies eight 'parts' of the  psuche-, which include  the  centrally  located  'governing  part'.  In  a  doxographical  testimony  (Aët.  iv.21.1-4),  the  seven  subordinate  parts  (i.e.,  the  five  senses, reproduction and voice) are described as 'growing out from the governing part and stretching out into the body like the tentacles of an octopus', an e◊ective  image  for  the  tensile  workings  of  psychic   pneuma.  In  another vivid image, reported by Calcidius as a statement by Chrysippus, the relation of the 'governing part' to the other parts is likened to a spider's control of its web:
Just  as  a  spider  in  the  middle  of  a  web  holds  all  the  beginnings  of  its threads with its feet, in order to observe at once when any tiny creature enters the trap from any region - so the governing part of the  psuche-, situated  in  the  midst  of  the  heart,  keeps  hold  on  the  beginnings  of  the 26 Galen cites the other two versions in the same context of  PHP; see Tieleman 1996, 42-3. For a detailed discussion of their bearing on the Stoic philosophy of language, see Ax 1986, 145-51. 
27 See the commentary of Kidd 1988 on Posidon. fr. 142 E.-K. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
572
s t o i c   p s y c h o l o g y
senses,  in  order  to  be  immediately  cognizant  of  anything  they  report. 
(Calcid.  In Tim.  220)
The spider image, though it fits psychic  pneuma  less well than the octopus, shows how close the Stoics are to a model of mental functioning akin to the brain and nervous system. Their 'governing part' is both the controlling principle of the entire  psuche-  and also the part where everything that happens to the body and other parts of the  psuche-  is registered and interpreted. Because it is the seat and faculty of all awareness, the 'governing part' tends to be construed as the entire  psuche- 28 and its subordinate parts as merely the instruments of its activity. The Stoics' conception of the 'governing part' centralizes and co-ordinates psychic life to an extent that is without parallel in the rest of Greek philosophy.29 This 'mind', as we may call it from now on, constitutes not only the perceiving, feeling, thinking and wanting of human beings but all that they do, as intentional agents. Chrysippus even identified the act of walking with the 'governing part' (Sen.  Ep. 113.23). 
iii Rationality and the faculties of the mind
We have next to consider how the Stoics analyse and justify the unitary rationality of the mind or 'governing part' of human beings. In approaching this large question, we need to start by recalling the psychic faculties common to all animals.30
As I noted at the beginning of the previous section, the powers that the psuche-  confers  on  every  animal  include  sensation  ( aisthe-sis)  and  impulse ( horme-).  The  standard  name  for  the  'faculty'  responsible  for  sensation  is phantasia. A particular  phantasia  is a mental impression or representation, defined  as  'an  event  occurring  in  the   psuche-,  which  reveals  itself  and  its cause' (Aët. iv.12.1). Such 'impressions' (as I shall call them here), are 'alterations'  (D.L.  vii.50)  of  the  'governing  part'.  At  their  simplest  and  most basic,  they  are  caused  by  the  impact  on  the  sense-organs  of  something external to them. The psychic  pneuma  in these organs transmits the sensory properties of the external object to the 'governing part', where the e◊ect is registered as an impression of something white or cold and so forth. 
The mechanics of such sensory processes are poorly attested. What first needs  to  be  emphasized,  in  approaching  the  concept  of   phantasia,  is  its teleological relation to the other basic faculty, impulse:
28 See n. 11 above. 
29 For further comments along these lines, see Annas 1992a, 61-4. 
30 For detailed discussion of the mind's 'faculties', see Inwood 1985, 18-41. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
r a t i o n a l i t y   a n d   t h e   f a c u l t i e s   o f   t h e   m i n d 573
The animal is superior to the non-animal in two respects, impression and impulse. An impression is formed by the approach of an external object which strikes the mind through sensation. Impulse, the close relation of impression,  is  formed  by  the  tonic  power  of  the  mind.  By  stretching impulse  out  through  sensation,  the  mind  grasps  the  object  and  goes towards it, eager to seize and reach it. (Phil.  Leg. i.30) Philo  of  Alexandria,  the  author  of  this  passage,  uses  the  term  'mind'
( nous) where a Stoic, in a context about animals in general, would write
'governing part'. Apart from this detail, we can regard his remarks as a reliably  succinct  account  of  the  way  the  Stoics  take  impression  and impulse to co-operate, as stimulus and response, in maintaining an animal's life.31 Endowed as they are with 'self-perception' (recall the second excerpt from Hierocles), all animals are predisposed to observe and pursue things conducive to their natures, and to observe and avoid everything harmful.32
Impression and impulse are not spatially distinct 'parts' of the  psuche-, like vision or voice. They are distinct 'faculties' of the single 'governing part'. What this means is that, unlike vision for instance, which has its own specific  pneuma  that is limited to the facilitation of seeing, the 'governing  part'  contains  plural  powers  in  virtue  of  its  own  constitutive pneuma. It can do di◊erent things - receive impressions  and  react positively or negatively to them - without altering or fragmenting its identity. 
In the human case, the mind is described as having two further 'faculties' or 'qualities' besides impression and impulse. These are assent ( sun-
 katathesis) and reason ( logos). Iamblichus, an important source on all this ( ap. Stob. i.368.12-20), says: 'Just as an apple possesses in the same body sweetness and fragrance, so too the mind combines in the same body [i.e. 
the mind's  pneuma] impression, assent, impulse and reason.' The point of the apple analogy is presumably twofold - to undercut any suggestion of spatial separation between the mind's faculties and to insist that they do not function autonomously but only as interdependent manifestations of its own operation. 
This  account  of  the  mind's  faculties  tells  strongly  in  favour  of  the mind's unity. What does it imply about the way the mind works? How do the Stoics distribute responsibility between the four faculties? Are their functions  su√ciently  commodious  and  flexible  to  comprehend  everything that we might incorporate under the concepts of perception, mem-31 For a full treatment concerning 'impulse', see Inwood 1985, ch. 3, 'The psychology of action'. 
32 See n. 14 above. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
574
s t o i c   p s y c h o l o g y
ory,  imagination,  thought,  belief,  knowledge,  desire,  emotion,  volition and so forth? What is their point in specifying assent as a distinct faculty of the mind? How should we construe the status of reason, especially its relation to the other three faculties? These are the principal questions to which I now turn. 
*
Once again, continuity and di◊erence between human and non-human animals  is  a  decisive  step  in  the  argument.  The  Stoics  are  curiously ambivalent in their assessment of non-human animals. They insist, as we have seen, that non-human animals lack anything that can be properly called a mind. Yet, their elucidation of the mind, like their starting-point in  ethics,  is  strongly  influenced  by  presumptions  about  faculties  common to all animals. One of their favourite strategies is to invoke a  scala naturae:
Nature, they say, is no di◊erent in regard to plants and animals at the time when it directs animals as well as plants without impulse and sensation, and in us certain processes of a vegetative kind take place. But since animals have the additional faculty of impulse, through the use of which they go in search of what is appropriate to them, what is natural for them is to be administered in accordance with their impulse. And since reason, by way of a more perfect management, has been bestowed on rational beings, to live correctly in accordance with reason comes to be natural for  them.  For  reason  supervenes  as  the  craftsman  of  impulse.  (D.L. 
vii.86)
Reason  is  not  a  faculty  simply  additional  to  and  co-ordinate  with impulse and sensation (the powers common to any  psuche-). The Stoics treat reason as the determining faculty of the human  psuche-. It so influences the other mental faculties that, instead of remaining non-rational (as they are in other animals), they too become rational. What is mere impulse in the purely animal  psuche- becomes volition, 'rational impulse', in the human mind - 'impulse crafted by reason'. Reason similarly has the e◊ect of making  every  human impression ( phantasia) 'rational' - making  it  a  'thought'  (D.L.  vii.50).  As  for  assent,  though  we  have  yet  to explore the details, its link with rationality is evident from its function -
the  capacity  to  endorse  or  reject  propositions  (Stob.  ii.88.2-6).  Since only  rational  animals  can  entertain  and  respond  to  propositions,  we should take assent to be strictly a faculty peculiar to mind. Other animals, though they are credited with assent by some sources, can have it Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
r a t i o n a l i t y   a n d   t h e   f a c u l t i e s   o f   t h e   m i n d 575
in only a weak sense at best - what is sometimes described as 'yielding'
( eixis).33
The upshot of these findings is that our sources are correct, but misleading, when they say that the mind or 'governing part' of the human psuche-  has  the  four  faculties,  impression,  assent,  impulse,  reason.  The Stoics' model of the mind would be better rendered by saying that there are  three  mental  faculties  -  rational  impression,  rational  impulse,  and rational assent. Reason is not something over and above the other three. It is the mind in its entirety. Hence reason ( logos), mind ( nous), and thought ( dianoia)  are  all  terms  that  refer  to  the  distinctive  nature  of  a  human being's  psuche-. 
We now have a preliminary response to some of the questions I posed concerning the relationship between mental faculties. What we need next to  consider  is  the  e◊ectiveness  of  these  faculties  in  accounting  for  the mental events I previously enumerated - perception, memory, imagination, thought, belief, knowledge, volition, desire, emotion, and so forth. 
In addition, we shall need to ask how the Stoics can respond to the frequent  objection  that,  in  unifying  the  mind  as  a  purely  rational  faculty, they are unable to explain irrational behaviour of human beings. 
The first point to emphasize is the vast scope they assign to the faculty of  phantasia.  Although I am adopting 'impression' as my translation of this term, other possible translations will help in its elucidation. These include representation, appearance, and, with qualifications, awareness. 
To  be having  a  phantasia  of something is to have something perceptual or non-perceptual  present  to  the  mind.  However,  although  anything  of which  one  is  conscious  will  involve  a   phantasia,  the  term  also  covers memories  and  concepts  which  are  latent  and  therefore  not  things  of which one is presently conscious (Plu.  Comm. Not.  1084f-1085a). Instead of drawing a basic distinction, as Aristotle and Plato do, between sensation or perception ( aisthe-sis) and thought, the Stoics subsume both sets of mental events under  phantasia. This amounts to saying that the mind is capable of having both perceptual thoughts or impressions, and non-perceptual  thoughts  or  impressions.  Although  only  the  former  are directly mediated by the senses, they are the primary source of the concepts or impressions we present to ourselves in non-perceptual thought (Aët. iv.11.1-4). 
33 On the question of animal assent, see Long 1982b, 50, and Inwood 1985, 72-91. Animals are
'active', but they are not 'agents' ( Alex.  Fat. 205.28). The content of their  phantasia  is 'non-conceptual' (Aët. iv.11). 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
576
s t o i c   p s y c h o l o g y
Nothing is attested about why the Stoics treat  phantasia  in this completely  general  way.  Their  empiricism  must  surely  have  contributed.  If perceptual experience precedes and subsequently helps to shape non-perceptual  thought,  it  is  plausible  to  suppose  that  what  both  experiences share - awareness of something with conceptual content - is far more significant  than  the  ways  in  which  they  di◊er  with  respect  to  the  circumstances causing them. However that may be, the Stoics' readiness to admit perception as a species of thought is an enormous advance in the philosophy of mind. It frees them from the Platonic error, to which Aristotle too is  partly  liable,  of  supposing  that  reason  and  interpretation  are  disengaged  from,  or  not  fully  engaged  in,  the  activities  of  sense-perception. 
Perceptual impressions, according to the Stoics, range from simple recognition  of  sensory  properties  to  categorical  judgements  about  complex objects. Since  phantasia  is the generic faculty of perceptual and non-perceptual  thought,  there  is  no  need  to  regard  perceptual  impressions  as
'irrational' material for something else - the intellect - to process. They are fully rational activities of the unitary mind (as Strato advocated too, Plu.  Soll.  961a). 
The faculty of  phantasia  embraces perception, abstract thought, imagination, memory and latent concepts.34 Not only that. Because a  phantasia
'reveals   itself  and  its  cause',  it  is  both  informative  (reveals  what  it  is  an impression of ) and informative in a self-revealing way. What this almost certainly means is that occurrent impressions generally (which is not to say invariably) involve reflexive awareness; they make the person subject to them conscious of having the perceptual or non-perceptual experience corresponding to their content. Earlier Greek philosophers go some way towards recognizing apperception and consciousness as properties of the mind. It is the Stoics, however, who were the first to identify consciousness  explicitly  as  a  decisive  property  of  mental  life.  According  to Hierocles,  the  first  impression  or  perception  any  animal  experiences  is that of 'itself ' ( El. Eth. col. 6, 20-2). What this self can amount to, in the case of non-human animals, is a question too complex to discuss in detail here.35 Minimally, however, the concept of self-perception implies some kind of reflexive awareness - some kind of recognition of the body in pain or pleasure as  belonging to  that which is feeling the pain or pleasure. 
34 Sometimes a distinction is drawn between a particular  phantasia, an impression generated by something objective, and a  phantasma  or mere 'figment' (Aët. iv.12.1-5). But although imagination ( phantastikon) is thereby marked out as something distinctive, the faculty of  phantasia  must be responsible for imagination as well as all other representations. 
35 For an exploration of animal 'self-perception', see Bastianini and Long 1992a, 385-90, Long 1993b. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
r a t i o n a l i t y   a n d   t h e   f a c u l t i e s   o f   t h e   m i n d 577
In the case of human beings, thanks to Epictetus (second century ad), we can say a lot more. In his way of formulating Stoicism, the principal task facing human beings is to learn 'how to use one's impressions correctly' and 'to attend to their use'.36 Drawing a contrast with non-human animals,  Epictetus  indicates  that  'attending  to  an  impression'  signifies not simply going along with it but focusing on it, interpreting it, asking what it tells one not only about objective reality but about oneself. The problem with someone like Medea, he argues, is a problem to do with her impressions (Epict.  Diss. i.28.7-9). She sees herself simply as a desperately wronged wife - that is the way things 'appear' to her, and she accepts it, identifies  with  it.  As  the  remedy  for  such  self-identification,  Epictetus urges:
Do not be carried away by the intensity of an impression, but say: 'Wait a moment for me, impression; let me see who you are and what you are about; let me test you.' And next, do not let it lead you on by depicting the consequences. Otherwise, it will take possession of you and take you wherever it wants to. What you should do, rather, is to oppose to it a fair and noble impression and discard this sordid one. ( Diss.  ii.18.24-6) Passages such as this one show that impressions furnish not only the content  of  thought  and  action;  they  also  help  to  constitute  the  thinker and  agent,  the  self  in  other  words.  Marcus  Aurelius  makes  this  point, when he says: 'Your mind will be just like the repetition of your impressions; for the  psuche-  is coloured by its impressions' ( Med. v.16). But there is more to the Stoic self, and to Stoic interest in reflexive consciousness, than  the  faculty  of  impression  on  its  own  delivers.  As  Epictetus  points out, where Medea went wrong was in 'assenting' to a particular impression of her situation. What is the faculty of assent, and why do the Stoics, uniquely among Greek philosophers, introduce it? 
The  term   sunkatathesis,  translated  by  assent,  is  derived  from  a  verb (συγκατατι!θεσθαι)  which  was  used  in  everyday  Greek  to  signify  'go along with', 'vote for' or 'commit oneself to'. Impressions taken on their own are merely thought contents. Only some of them represent matters that are veridical, and of these, only  kataleptic  impressions represent veridical matters in ways that are indubitable.37 The function of assent is to evaluate  impressions,  to  adjudicate  on  the  truth-value  of  their  propositional content, to decide whether or not they represent something one 36 See Epict.  Diss.  i.1.7, ii.1.4, ii.22.29, iv.6.34. 'Attend to' translates παρακολουθει4ν (i.6.13). 
Stoic usage no doubt influenced the Neoplatonists, who use the word with the reflexive pronoun to denote 'being self-conscious'. 
37 See p. 30 0. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
578
s t o i c   p s y c h o l o g y
has good reason to endorse as one's judgement of the way things are. This description of assent shows why it is sometimes treated as the very hallmark of rationality.38
Knowledge  and  belief  in  Stoicism  are  functions  of  the  way  people assent  to  their  impressions.39 In  cases  where  assent  is  fully  justified (because the impression is  kataleptic), the cognitive state is a genuine grasp ( katale-psis)  of  the  truth  represented  in  the  impression,  a  grasp  which becomes 'irrefutable knowledge' ( episte-me-) if further conditions are satisfied (Stob. ii.73.19-74.3). Belief ( doxa) is a weaker cognitive state, resulting  from  any  kind  of  assent.  It  straddles  truth  and  falsehood,  and  even when  true  it  lacks  the  grounding  of  the  assent  involved  in  irrefutable knowledge. 
We are to think of assent, like  phantasia, as both a faculty of the mind and a name for the particular activities of the faculty. In the former sense, assent constitutes a disposition in terms of which a mind can be assessed both with respect to its cognitive powers and with respect to its moral character. Once again, Epictetus is particularly informative:
Man,  you  have  a  capacity  for  decision  ( prohairesis)  which  is  by  nature unconstrained and unimpeded. . . I will prove this to you first under the heading  of  assent.  Can  anyone  prevent  you  from  inclining  to  what  is true? No one can. Can anyone compel you to accept what is false? No one at all. Don't you see that in this region you have a capacity for decision that is unconstrained, unimpeded and unobstructed? ( Diss. i.17.21-3) The heading of assent deals with things that are plausible and alluring. 
For just as Socrates used to say that the unexamined life is not worth living, so we should not accept an unexamined impression, but should say:
'Wait, let me see who you are and where you are coming from.' ( Diss. 
iii.12.14-15; cf. ii.18.24-6 cited above)
Epictetus,  as  is  his  wont,  combines  psychology  with  ethics,  but  the appropriateness of his doing so is evident when we turn to the last three properties  of  mind  on  which  I  want  to  examine  the  Stoics  -  volition, desire  and  emotion.  From  what  I  have  already  said  about  basic  animal psychology, we know that the behaviour of non-human animals is caused by the conjunct operation of their impressions and their impulses. As the response to an attractive or repellent impression, impulse is the psychic movement that issues in purposive behaviour. In the human case, the sit-38 Cf. Orig.  Princ. iii.1.3 where 'reason' is said to 'pass judgements on impressions'. The text is discussed in detail by Inwood 1985, 78-81. 
39 Or more strictly, perhaps, the way they assent to the propositions or  lekta  that are 'subsistent'
on impressions; see Long and Sedley 1987, vol. i, 240. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
r a t i o n a l i t y   a n d   t h e   f a c u l t i e s   o f   t h e   m i n d 579
uation is immensely more complex because of rationality and, in particular, the operation of assent. 
We  might  expect  that  assent  would  intervene  following  both  an impression  and  an impulse. That, after all, is the way people including the ancient  Greeks  typically  see  the  relation  between  desire,  decision  and action: these mental events seem to occur in the order I have just given. A person experiences an impulse or desire; the person decides whether to endorse the desire; if the decision is a√rmative, an action consistent with the  desire  follows.  The  Stoics  go  some  way  towards  accepting  this account.  They  acknowledge  that  some  of  our  impressions  are   hormetic, which means that these impressions are a  prima facie  stimulus to action.40
But  hormetic  impressions, though they will be a causal factor of action if we  assent  to  them,  are  not  activities  of   horme-,  the  faculty  of  impulse. 
Mediating between such impressions and any actual impulse is the faculty of  assent.  The  Stoics'  point  is  that,  while   hormetic  impressions  precede assent, impulses are  outcomes  of assent, or even, as one source states the matter, impulses  are  acts of assent.41
According to this account of action, there is a confluence between decision (assent) and desire (impulse). What precedes an assent is not, strictly speaking,  an  impulse.  The  mind  entertains  the  thought  of  something desirable, but it is the mind's assent to this thought which activates and even constitutes the desire or impulse. If the mind declines to assent, the faculty of impulse remains inactive. Action ensues on desire and decision, as in the standard model, but the desire is conditioned by the decision. 
Three interesting consequences follow: first, decision procedure is not construed  as  adjudicating  on  or  between  actual  desires  but  as  deciding whether  to  permit  the  thought  of  something  attractive  to  become  a desire. Secondly, since there can be no gap between decision and desire, what one decides on  is  inevitably what one desires. Short of external constraint or a change of mind, there can be no desires that fail to give rise to action. The place that ordinary language would assign to such desires is filled  by  attractive  thoughts  that  do  not  become  impulses  to  action because they are not given assent. The third consequence is the clarity the model  provides  for  showing  how  decisions  can  result  in  actions.  An 40 Stob. ii.86.17-87.6. Inwood 1985, 56-86, is the first scholar to bring out the significance of hormetic  impressions. 
41 Stob. ii.88.2-6. In this brief testimony, 'propositions' are said to be the objects of assent, but impulse is directed at 'predicates'.This interesting refinement is too complex to be examined here. For discussions of it, see Long 1976, Inwood 1985, 60-6, Annas 1992a, 93-102. There is also a big question to ask about how the corporeal mind can be cognizant of 'incorporeal  lekta'. 
I have explored this briefly in Long 1982b, 51-3 and Long 1991a, 118-20. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
580
s t o i c   p s y c h o l o g y
impulse is a decision (act of assent). But it is also, quite literally, 'a movement of the  psuche-  towards something' (Stob. ii.86.19), a stretch of psychic   pneuma,  activating  the  limbs  in  the  direction  of  the  mind's objective.42 The confluence of assent and impulse gives the Stoics something like a concept of the will, but one which, thanks to their physicalism, lacks the mystery often attached to that concept.43
Volition  and  desire  -  these  properties  of  the  mind,  it  should  now  be clear, are at the forefront of the Stoics' interests. They make 'assent' rather than 'impression' the 'principal' cause of an action.44 Because assent is 'in our  power',  in  the  sense  that  it  depends  on  nothing  outside  the  mind, human agents are held fully responsible both for what they do, and also, as we have seen, for what they desire. But there is more, of course, to desire than we have considered thus far. In ordinary language, desire is an emotion as well as being the volitional element of action. Where do the emotions fit in the Stoics' philosophy of mind?45
*
It goes without saying that the ideal Stoic life is totally free of every emotion  that  could  disturb  a  perfectly  rational  state  of  mind.  To  put  this another way, the Stoic sage is subject neither to passionate pleasure and passionate desire, nor to distress and fear. His rational disposition is completely  equable.  This  paragon,  however,  is  someone  no  actual  human being has been known to instantiate more than approximately. The Stoics need to show what emotions are, in the lives of ordinary mortals, and how the Stoic model of mind can explain their occurrence. 
Their approach to these issues trades heavily, though not exclusively, on the four faculties of the mind. According to the standard account, the emotions are a species of 'impulse', one which is 'excessive and disobedient to the dictates of reason, or a movement of the  psuche-  which is irrational and contrary to nature' (Stob. ii.88.8-10). Since, as we have seen, all impulses involve 'assent', that faculty is also operative. We already know too that assent has the function of attending to and evaluating 'impressions'. The outcome of any act of assent is a cognitive state. This state, at its weakest, is a mere 'belief ', and at its weakest and worst, a 'false belief '. 
In addition to being defined as 'excessive and irrational impulses', emo-42 The faculty of impulse can also generate 'repulsion', a movement of the  psuche- away from something (Stob. ii.87.5-6). 
43 For stimulating treatments of Stoic ideas of the will, see Mansfeld 1992d, and Kahn 1988. 
44 See pp. 494, 703 and 717. 
45 For  further  discussion  of  the  Stoic  treatment  of  emotions,  see  below,  p.  699.  They  are  also treated, from the perspective of mind, by Annas 1992a, 103-20. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
r a t i o n a l i t y   a n d   t h e   f a c u l t i e s   o f   t h e   m i n d 581
tions  are  'false  beliefs'.  Distress,  for  instance,  is  defined  as  'a  fresh  [to which we can add false] belief that something bad is present' (Andronicus Pass. 1). Thus, in characterizing the emotions in the ways just mentioned, the Stoics accommodate them to their basic model of action: an impression, followed by assent/impulse, which ensues in an action. 
What di◊erentiates an emotional from a non-emotional action, on the evidence thus far, is not the intrusion of an element of the mind other than reason - what a Platonist, for instance, assigns to the so-called 'spirited'
part  of  the   psuche-.  An  emotional  action  is  like  any  other  action  in  its three causal components. What makes it distinctive is the 'excess and irrationality'  of  its  impulse,  a  failing  which  must  also  apply  to  the  agent's assent  to  the  badness  or  goodness  represented  in  the  impression.  (We should recall Epictetus' warnings against letting assent act precipitately.) The Stoics construe 'irrationality' not as the intervention of an 'irrational'
faculty  (since  there  is  none),  but  as  error  of  judgement,  reasoning  that goes wrong. A comment by Plutarch gives one of the clearest statements of their view:
Some people [meaning the Stoics] say that emotion is no di◊erent from reason, and that there is no dissension and conflict between the two, but a turning of the single reason in both directions, which we do not notice owing to the sharpness and speed of the change.46 We do not perceive that the natural instrument of appetition and regret, or anger and fear, is the same part of the  psuche-, which is moved by pleasure towards wrong, and while moving recovers itself. For appetition and anger and fear and all such things are bad opinions and judgements. They do not arise in the region of only one part of the  psuche-. They are the whole 'commanding part's'  inclinations,  yieldings,  assents,  impulses,  and  quite  generally activities  which  change  rapidly,  just  like  children's  fights,  whose  fury and intensity are volatile and transient, owing to their weakness. (Plu. 
 Virt. Mor. 446f-447a)
What  we  have  here  is  a  brilliant  revision  of  the  standard  belief  in  a divided self. The mind is not composite, as Plato had famously inferred because  it  can  be  simultaneously  attracted  to  and  repelled  by  the  same object. That premiss is false. The experiences which make it seem plausible are actually successive, a sequence of very rapid changes of the mind in its entirety. Apparent conflict of desires, apparent conflict between reason and passion - these are the unitary mind's oscillation between pro and 46 For 'turning' ( trope-), cf. D.L. vii.158 and discussion by Mansfeld 1992d, 116 n.17, who comments on the contraction and dilation of the  pneuma  that the use of the term implies. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
582
s t o i c   p s y c h o l o g y
contra judgements. Reason is fully at work throughout, so the emotions are not due to something other than reason. They are errors of reasoning, reason that goes wrong, false judgements of what is valuable or harmful. 
The  Stoics,  accordingly,  take  themselves  to  be  entitled  to  attribute
'irrationality'  to  a  rational   psuche-  which  is  reasoning  'badly'.  This  is entirely coherent. Someone who plays a musical instrument badly is playing unmusically, but the performance is still a musical one. Yet, the Stoics'
recourse to this point is insu√cient to distinguish the irrationality characteristic of emotions from faulty reasoning quite generally. Some further di◊erentia is needed. The obvious candidate is the 'excess' of the impulses that  constitute  emotions.  Here  is  Chrysippus'  elucidation  of  the  issue from his work  On Emotions:
First of all, we should bear in mind that a rational animal follows reason naturally, and acts in accordance with reason as if that were its guide. 
Often, however, it moves towards and away from certain things in a di◊erent way, pushed to excess in disobedience to reason. Both definitions
[i.e. the definitions of emotions as 'irrational' and as 'excessive impulses']
refer to this movement: the movement contrary to nature which occurs irrationally in this way, and the excess in impulses . . . For this irrationality must be taken to mean 'disobedient to reason' and 'reason turned aside'; with reference to this movement we even speak in ordinary language of people 'beingpushed' and 'moved irrationally', without reason and judgement. What we mean by these expressions is not as though a person moves in error and overlookingsomethingthat accords with reason, but we refer chiefly to the movement outlined by the expressions, since it is not a rational animal's nature to move in  this  way but in accordance with reason. . . 
This also explains the expression 'excess of the impulse', since people overstep the proper and natural proportion of their impulses. My meaningcan be made more intelligible in this way. In the case of walking in accordance with impulse, the movement of a person's legs is not excessive but commensurate with the impulse, so that it is possible to stop or change when one wants to. But when people run in accordance with their impulse [to walk], this sort of thing no longer happens. The movement of their legs exceeds their impulse, so that they are carried away and unable to change obediently as soon as they have started. Somethingsimilar, I think, takes place with impulses, owingto their goingbeyond the rational proportion. 
The result is that when someone has the impulse he is not obedient to reason. The excess in runningis called 'contrary to the impulse', but the excess in the impulse is called 'contrary to reason'. For the proportion of a natural impulse is what accords with reason and goes only so far as reason thinks right. (Gal.  PHP  iv.2.10-18; see also p. 702 below) Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
r a t i o n a l i t y   a n d   t h e   f a c u l t i e s   o f   t h e   m i n d 583
The  subtlety  of  this  passage  is  ample  testimony  to  the  loss  we  have su◊ered from the disappearance of every complete work by Chrysippus. 
His argument depends on four principal points. First, when Chrysippus refers to reason, he is using the term normatively, with reference to the reasoning that it is natural for a rational animal to employ. Secondly, he makes room for ordinary language expressions, like 'acting without reason and judgement', by taking them to pick out something distinctive of
'emotional movements': they manifest 'disobedience' to reason in its normative sense. Thirdly, he elucidates the 'excess' of an impulse by an analogy  or  proportion:  as  someone  with  the  impulse  to  walk  exceeds  that impulse if he runs, so someone who has reasoned that  x  is to be pursued or avoided has an excessive impulse if he pursues or avoids  x  to a degree that is incommensurate with normative reasoning. Chrysippus' fourth point is that emotions are 'movements'. They have their own momentum, and thus  they  exceed  the  impulses  compatible  with  normative  reasoning. 
Physically speaking, emotions are extreme expansions or contractions of the mind's  pneuma. Either way, they manifest a 'governing part' that lacks the  degree  of  pneumatic  'tension'  constitutive  of  sound  reason  -  the strong  personality  Chrysippus  called  'sinewy',  playing  upon  the  word neuro-des, 'tendon-like'.47
This  account  of  the  emotions  raises  many  questions.  Its  principal strength, in my opinion, is its recognition that emotions are not simply
'animal' forces that sometimes intrude on the rational mind. Only rational animals, according to the Stoics, can be subject to the irrationality of emotions. That is because, as they see things, emotions include concepts, cognitive  states,  propositional  attitudes.  Emotions  are  malfunctions  of reason, and especially reason as deployed in impulse or action. They are manifestations of a mind whose wants and aversions can be likened to a machine  that  is  running  too  fast  or  too  slow  to  perform  its  function e◊ectively.48 Perhaps  the  chief  weakness  of  the  Stoics'  position  is  its apparent  refusal  to  allow  the  mind  to  contain  hidden  motive  forces. 
Unlike  Plato  for  instance,  they  seem  to  have  had  no  sympathy  for  anything that today we would call the unconscious. 
47 See  Mansfeld  1992d,  115-18,  for  Chrysippus'  liking  to  draw  a  parallel  between  physical strength and strength of mind (will), with further comments by Sedley 1992b, 150-2. 
48 The Stoics were notorious for treating correctness of reason, and the virtue that it constitutes, as an all or nothing matter. One fault is enough to wreck the harmony that marks a perfectly rational  disposition.  For  an  exploration  of  this,  with  reference  to  musical  harmony  as  their favoured model, see Long 1991b. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
584
s t o i c   p s y c h o l o g y
iv Concluding remarks
The Stoics' account of mental faculties is striking in its economy. Taking the mind to be rational through and through, they undertake to show that mental life can be fully explicated by reference to just three basic faculties
- impression, assent and impulse. In treating these faculties as functions of reason, they are also treating them as functions of language. Human beings  resemble  other  animals  in  being  subject  to  impressions  and impulses, but because we humans are language animals the way we represent the world to ourselves has the structure of propositional thought. In later philosophical traditions, language capacity and a special kind of consciousness are frequently regarded as primary characteristics of mind. It was perhaps because the Stoics emphasize both of these characteristics so strongly  that  their  philosophy  of  mind  is  also  a  philosophy  of  the  self. 
What interests them chiefly about the mind is its being the centre of individual agency, the locus of subjectivity, the vehicle of intentionality and moral identity. 
We know enough about the Stoic theory of mind to see that it is a challenging contribution. That holds good irrespective of any bearing it may have on contemporary debate about the mind's ontological status. I happen to think that such a√nities as there are between Stoics and moderns on this issue are largely superficial.49 The ancient context of the Stoic theory is remote from Descartes' mind/body legacy, concerns about reductionism or antireductionism, emergent properties and so forth. We can admit  all  this,  and  also  acknowledge  the  provisionality  of  anything  we think  we  know  about  the  mind.  The  Stoic  concept  of  psychic   pneuma points to a confluence of the physical and the mental we are still struggling to articulate. Their reasoning about the mind's location in the body, though  they  got  the  answer  wrong,  helped  them  to  unify  the  locus  of everything  we  call  mental.  What  they  made  of  that  unity  is  something that will bear thinking about long after the dust has settled on controversies about the mind's relation to the findings of molecular biology. 
49 This is not to say that interpretation of the Stoics cannot be enhanced by consulting modern theorists, especially Davidson 1982 and Searle 1992. I am also aware that more could be said concerning the mind's relation to the body (more on this in Long 1982b) and the bearing that psychic  pneuma  has on the Stoics' construal of mental states. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
18
Philosophy, science and medicine
g i u s e p p e   c a m b i a n o
i Philosophy and mathematics
The relationship between philosophy and mathematics appears to be less close in the Hellenistic age than in previous centuries. The mathematicians proceeded with their work without any explicit adhesion to philosophical  doctrines  or  any  reply  to  the  theoretical  and  epistemological problems  raised  by  the  Epicureans  and  the  sceptics  when  dealing  with mathematics.  In  the  fifth  century ad the  Neo-platonist  Proclus  saw Euclid as a Platonist, because his  Elements  concluded with the construction of regular polyhedrons, the basis of the cosmic structure outlined by Plato in the  Timaeus ( Eucl. 68.20-3; 70.22-71.5). But there is no proof that Euclid meant to direct the whole of his writing towards the creation of a cosmology. 
Another  level  on  which  Proclus  tried  to  show  Euclidean  geometry's dependence on philosophy was the formal structure of the  Elements. This was  based  on  the  distinction  between  a  small  number  of  principles, assumed at the outset without demonstration and listed in the first book as  definitions,  common  notions  and  postulates,  and  a  body  of  propositions  reached  deductively  starting  from  the  principles.  Proclus  highlighted a correspondence between this structure and the theory of science formulated  by  Aristotle,  particularly  in  the   Posterior  Analytics,  and  also between  Euclid's  principles  and  those  mentioned  by  Aristotle  ( Eucl. 
76.6-77.2). It is in fact possible to make out some parallelism: for example,  Aristotle  includes  among  the  principles  used  by  mathematicians Euclid's third common notion, which is that if equals are subtracted from equals, the remainders will be equal ( APo.  76a41). But we cannot speak of an absolute coincidence in the terminology used to classify the kinds of principle, or in the techniques of deduction of propositions from principles, theorized by Aristotle and employed by Euclid. In Euclid valid argumentative  forms  are  used  which  are  not  easily  reduced  to  Aristotelian schemata of categorical inference or even hypothetical inference, which
[585]
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
586
p h i l o s o p h y,   s c i e n c e   a n d   m e d i c i n e was discussed subsequently especially by the Stoics.1 The partial parallels between Aristotle and Euclid can be explained by reference to a shared tradition. The axiomatic-deductive form was not invented by Euclid, but was already used in two works from the second half of the fourth century bc:  the  treatise  on  spherical  astronomy   On  Risings  and  Settings  by Autolycus of Pitane, and the third book of  Harmonics  by Aristotle's pupil Aristoxenus  of  Tarentum.  Ancient  sources  record  other  authors  of Elements  prior to Euclid, some prior to Aristotle as well, such as Leo and Theudius of Magnesia in the fourth century and Hippocrates of Chios, who  lived  in  the  second  half  of  the  fifth  century  bc (Procl.  Eucl. 
66.7-67.16). 
In post-Euclidean mathematics there is no indication of a precise distinction between kinds of principle. The terminology by which they are defined  is  not  fixed  in  Archimedes  nor  in  Apollonius  of  Perge.  But  the Elements  became the model by which to organize and expound the results of geometrical research. The model was also used in an astronomical context by Euclid himself in the  Phainomena  and by Aristarchus of Samos in his surviving work  On the Size and Distances of the Sun and Moon. This does not  mean  that  the  mathematicians  did  not  make  use  of  other  heuristic techniques. These included, especially in the resolution of problems concerning squaring and cubing, ample use of analytical techniques, usually consisting of the reduction of so far unknown propositions and figures to ones  already  known.  Plato  and  Aristotle  were  interested  in these  techniques, but so far as we know the philosophers of the Hellenistic age displayed no such interest in them. Archimedes, in his writing on theorems of  mechanics,  conceives  discovery  as  the  attainment  of  knowledge  or  a true conclusion by deduction from premisses which have also been drawn from mechanics, and distinguishes  it  from proper demonstration using geometrical principles. In describing the relationship between discovery and demonstration he uses terms and considerations which display an air of familiarity with the vocabulary and themes of contemporary philosophies, particularly Aristotelianism and Stoicism. But this does not mean that Archimedes was principally guided by philosophical concerns or logical theory, nor that his position can be equated with a specific philosophical point of view.2
1 On the question of principles, see von Fritz 1971 (1955), 335-429; Szabó 1960 and 1969; Knorr 1976; Mueller 1981; on the techniques of deduction see Mueller 1974, Barnes 1990a and the section on logic in this volume. 
2 On the analytical method in mathematics and philosophy see Robinson 1969, 1-15; Hintikka and Remes 1974; Knorr 1986, important also for Archimedes (on whom see Dijksterhuis 1987
and Cambiano 1992). 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
e p i c u r e a n i s m   a n d   m a t h e m a t i c s 587
The later mathematicians did not question the Euclidean model. They sometimes  gave  alternative  demonstrations  of  specific  theorems  or di◊erent  definitions  of  geometric  entities,  as  is  documented  in  Proclus'
commentary on Euclid and in the work  On the Definition of Geometrical Terms by Hero. One could suppose from this that they were aware of the problematic nature of certain Euclidean definitions, but not that they doubted the validity  of  the  axiomatic-deductive  structure  of  geometrical  knowledge. 
The  problem  concerned  only  the  good  order  of  propositions  within  this structure:  must  certain  propositions  be  assumed  as  principles  without demonstration, or can they be demonstrated? But this does not lead to a discussion of the validity of assuming axioms in general .  Radical critics of geometry  came  instead  from  the  philosophical  side,  especially  the Epicureans and sceptics. This was not entirely new: in the fifth century bc Protagoras  had  already  noted  a  di√culty  in  assuming  that  the  tangent touched the circle only at one point (Arist.  Metaph. Β.2.998a2-4). In the fourth century bc, the rejection of the  mathe-mata ('arts and sciences') by the Cynics and Cyrenaics had also included mathematics in the specific sense. 
ii Epicureanism and mathematics
The Epicurean critics of geometry also had its exploitation by the Platonic Academy  in  their  sights.3 Before  opening  his  own  school  in  Athens, Epicurus taught at Lampsacus, where he may have begun an argument -
continued  by  especially  Polyaenus  -  with  Eudoxus'  pupils  working  at Cyzicus. According to Cicero ( Acad. ii.106) Polyaenus, who started as a mathematician, became attached to Epicureanism and came to hold the view that 'all geometry is false'. From the title and what little remains of a work by Demetrius Laco,  On the Aporiai of Polyaenus, one can infer that Aporiai  was the title of a work by him or at any rate that Polyaenus had raised problems with regard to geometry. It is likely that his target was the geometry of Eudoxus and his pupils, not yet that of Euclid; and that the nub  of  the  di√culties  concerned  the  incompatibility  of  geometry  with the Epicurean doctrine of minima. This seems to be confirmed by the fact that  Philonides,  in  the  second  century  bc,  had  produced  geometrical explications of Epicurus' doctrine of minima. Epicurus considered that 3 The evidence for Polyaenus, Philonides and Demetrius Laco is collected and commented on respectively  in  Tepedino  Guerra  1991;  Gallo  1980,  23-166  (dealing  with  a  biography  of Philonides contained in  PHerc.  1044) and Angeli and Dorandi 1987. On ancient critics of geometry see also Apelt 1891, 253-86. On the Epicureans see Sedley 1976b, also for the controversial interpretation of the significance of the title of Demetrius' work, and above, pp. 374-9. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
588
p h i l o s o p h y,   s c i e n c e   a n d   m e d i c i n e the idea of the infinite divisibility of magnitudes was contrary to experience and to the doctrine of the existence of a minimum unit of magnitude, theoretically not divisible any further. 
Aristotle ( Metaph. Α 9.992a20-2) attributed to Plato the doctrine of the existence of uncuttable lines, that is to say of units of longitude which are theoretically indivisible. The tract  On Indivisible Lines,  of Peripatetic origin, sets out a battery of arguments against this theory which probably was widely held in the Academy. It is indeed the opposite of Aristotle's view, according to whom the continuum cannot be composed of indivisibles and mathematics falls apart if the concept of minimal quantities is introduced  ( Cael.  i.5.271b9-11).  The  Epicurean  theory  of  minima  is opposed to this Aristotelian conception as well, but it is less easy to determine whether it was incompatible with the practice of ancient geometers. 
Euclid did not actually explain his own view of continuity. The so-called method  of  exhaustion,  introduced  by  Eudoxus  and  later  developed  by Euclid and Archimedes, required the use of a principle of bisection (Eucl. 
 El. x prop. 1), which seemed to admit the possibility of infinite division. 
On  the  other  hand  Archimedes,  in  his  work   Method  for  Theorems  in Mechanics, assumes that a geometric figure, plane or solid, is a collection of constituent  parts,  respectively  lines  and  surfaces.  But  he  does  not  say whether their number is finite or infinite. One cannot rule out the possibility that he thought of them as indivisible minimal bodies. In any case he  did  not  tackle  clearly  the  question  of  continuity  and  indivisibility which also occupied the philosophers. 
The alternative views adopted by philosophers on the problem of continuity translated into di◊erent attitudes towards geometry. Unlike the Epicureans, the Stoics allowed for the infinite divisibility of bodies, not in the sense that they were composed of an infinite number of parts, but in the sense that there was no limit to division. This coincided with their interpretation of bodies as continuous collections of parts. They therefore had no di√culty in recognizing the scientific status of geometry.4
There  is  no  evidence  of  Epicurean  attempts  to  strengthen  their  doctrine of minima by developing an alternative, finite geometry. None can be  extracted  from  the  fact  that  Philonides  and  Protarchus,  mentioned with approval by mathematicians like Apollonius of Perge and Hypsicles, author  of  Book  xiv of  the   Elements (Apoll.  Perg.  i.192.5-11;  Eucl. 
v.2.1-4.4),  may  be  the  same  as  the  similarly-named  exponents  of  the 4 On  the  theory  of  minima  and  on  the  problem  of  infinite  divisibility  in  philosophy  and mathematics  see  Furley  1967,  1-158;  Knorr  1982;  M.  J.  White  1992,  193-251  and  above, pp. 374-9. On the Stoic definition of geometry see Mansfeld 1983a, 7 and Tarrant 1984. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
e p i c u r e a n i s m   a n d   m a t h e m a t i c s 589
Epicurean  school,  since  it  is  not  possible  to  determine  whether,  at  the time Apollonius and Hypsicles mention them, they had already become attached to Epicureanism. What is certain is that the doctrine of minima and the related problem of infinite divisibility continued to be central to the writings of Demetrius Laco, incompletely preserved on papyrus, both the  one  about  or  against  Polyaenus'   aporiai   and  another  entitled   On Geometry.  In  the  latter  (coll.  x-xiv)  he  puts  forward  the  problem  of whether it is possible to bisect a given rectilinear angle and a given finite straight line - Euclid's propositions 9 and 10 from  El. i are cited, with the relevant figures. But the text o◊ers no information about the course of Demetrius'  discussion.  It  would  seem  to  support  criticism  designed  to show, with supporting citations, that Euclid, using the principle of bisection, allowed the infinite divisibility of magnitudes and thereby remained entangled in the  aporiai  this caused. But the papyrus does not suggest that it led Demetrius to draw the conclusion that the whole of geometry was false. One should remember that Apollonius of Perge had given a solution to the problem of bisecting a straight line which was di◊erent from that of Euclid (Procl.  Eucl. 279.16-280.9), but there is no sign of this solution in Demetrius. 
The criticisms of geometry advanced by another Epicurean and a contemporary of Demetrius, Zeno of Sidon, strike a di◊erent note.5 These are recorded by Proclus in a review of arguments against Euclidean geometry ( Eucl. 199.3-20 0.3; 214.15-218.11). He mentions Epicureans who 'propose only to discredit the principles of geometry' and di◊erentiates these from others who 'admit the principles but deny that the propositions coming after the principles can be demonstrated, unless they grant something that is  not  contained  in  the  principles'.  This  was  the  path  taken  by  Zeno  of Sidon, which the Stoic Posidonius argued against. Zeno tried to demonstrate his own view on the basis of Euclid's first proposition, concerning the construction of the equilateral triangle. According to Zeno, if one does not make the further concession that two straight lines cannot have common segments, one cannot demonstrate that the triangle constructed following  Euclid's  procedure  is  equilateral.  Zeno  showed  that,  in  the problem in question, if one assumes the existence of a common segment one reaches an absurd conclusion: one must therefore assume no common segment.  This  means  that  even  if  one  accepts  the  axioms  assumed  by 5 Cf. the edition of Angeli and Colaizzo 1979. On Zeno and Posidonius see also Bréhier 1914
(1955,  117-30).  Vlastos  1966  has  interpreted  Zeno's  criticism  of  geometry  as  constructive; corrections to and arguments against this are in Sedley 1976b, Mueller 1982 and Kidd 1988, 205-14. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
590
p h i l o s o p h y,   s c i e n c e   a n d   m e d i c i n e Euclid, they do not form a complete system. Zeno's discussion has been interpreted as a purely methodological criticism, intended to perfect the collection of Euclidean axioms. He will have argued not for the falsity of Euclidean  axioms  or  the  non-demonstrability  of  the  theorems  which derived  from  them,  but  for  their  demonstrability  so  long  as  they  introduced additional axioms. This interpretation contrasts with Proclus' declaration,  according  to  which  so  many  people  made  objections  to  the Euclidean solution of the construction of the equilateral triangle, including Zeno, that it seemed to him to 'refute the whole of geometry' (214.17). 
If  this  were  true,  the  admission  of  the  validity  of  Euclidean  axioms  was only  a  dialectical  concession  to  the  opposition,  so  as  to  provide  further arguments against geometry. Zeno replied to Posidonius' counter-objections by showing that even in this case it was necessary to assume further premisses. In his opinion the incompleteness of the collection of axioms in Euclidean geometry was therefore a chronic malady which irremediably struck down the whole structure of geometry and definitely prevented it from being treated as a science.6
iii Scepticism and geometry
Besides  the  Epicureans  and  Zeno,  Proclus  noted  other  opponents  of geometry, who 'do away with all knowledge, like enemy troops destroying the crops of a foreign country, in this case a country that has produced philosophy' (199.6-9). Proclus called them  ephektikoi, 'those who withhold assent', a term usually used to define the sceptics; it is not certain whether Proclus refers to Pyrrhonists only or also includes the sceptical Academics.  Their  criticism  of  geometry  di◊ered  from  that  of  the Epicureans, who did not regard the rejection of geometry as a special case of that of knowledge in general. The major surviving account of sceptic criticism  of  geometry  is  Sextus  Empiricus   M  iii,  dating  some  centuries after  the  Hellenistic  age  but  possibly  preserving  much  earlier  material, especially if the overall organization of the arguments against geometry can be placed, though with di√culty, in a period preceding the modes of the Neopyrrhonists Aenesidemus and Agrippa. 
The aim of  M  i-vi was to show that grammar, rhetoric, geometry, arith-6 The problem of the completeness of the system of axioms was also noted by ancient geometers, as  suggested  by  the  fact  that  the  source  which  produced  the   Elements  knew  of  ten  common notions, possibly added as a sort of sequel to the original three. In another case, referred to by Proclus ( Eucl.  322.4-14), the Epicureans reproached Euclid not for incompleteness, but for useless enthusiasm for demonstrating what was obvious even to a fool, such as how in every triangle any two given sides will be longer than the third. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
s c e p t i c i s m   a n d   g e o m e t r y 591
metic, astrology and music were not really arts, since they had no object. 
In   M  iii this  aim  is  pursued  by  way  of  two  blocks  of  direct  argument against the procedure of the geometers (and others) of 'taking hypotheses as principles' and, subsequently, against the contents of the geometers'
principal  assumptions.  For  Sextus  hypothesizing  axioms  as  points  of departure for demonstration was quite simply assertion, without sustaining arguments. If what is hypothesized is true, there is no need to hypothesize it; if it is not true, there is still no need; so hypothesizing is pointless either way. Furthermore, certain arguments conclude, albeit in di◊erent ways,  that  if  one  hypothesis  is  acceptable,  any  hypothesis  is  acceptable and  there  is  no  way  of  deciding  which  hypothesis  is  necessary  or  most suitable to be chosen.7 A hypothesis and its opposite are equal, and if one argues in favour of one or the other one has abandoned the procedure of hypothesis.  Sextus'  arguments  are  backed  up  by  the  fourth  mode  of Agrippa  (D.L.  ix.89;  S.E.  PH  i.168),  but  the  fact  that  he  states  that  he wants  to  use  against  the  mathematicians  what  the  early  Pyrrhonist Timon,  in  his  writings  against  the  physicists,  had  done  regarding  the problem of whether anything should be assumed by way of a hypothesis ( M  iii.2), does not rule out the possibility that his arguments were at least partly an extension to geometry of criticisms already formulated long ago. 
However,  Sextus  does  not  stop  at  this  methodological  criticism,  but goes on to show the falsity, inconsistency and unacceptability of the principal assumptions in the geometers' theories. His fire is trained first on the  definitions  of  point,  line,  surface  and  body,  and  then  on  derived notions such as straight lines and angles.8 Many of the arguments put forward by Sextus aim to show that the objects of which geometers speak not only have nothing corresponding on a sensible level but cannot even be objects of thought. At their root is the presupposition that concepts can be formed and thought only on the basis of the data of sense-experience. 
Sextus mentions a series of ways in which concepts can originate  via 'transition'  ( metabasis)  from  things  evident  to  the  senses:  by  resemblance  or composition  or  proportionality  according  to  growth  or  diminution (iii.40-2). In none of these ways, claims Sextus, can a line as 'length without size' (the geometers' definition) be conceived, nor can one think of it by mentally reducing the size of a length. In that case, he argues, even if one arrived at length without size, one would also end up with something 7  M  iii.7-17 and parallel passages in  PH  i.173-4 and  M  viii.369-78; see Barnes 1990b, 90-113. 
8  M  iii.18, 92. The section iii.19-91, with parallels in  M  ix.367-436, opposes the definitions of primitive notions, while 94-107 opposes derived ones. See especially Mueller 1982, 69-95; cf. 
also Freytag 1995; Berryman 1998. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
592
p h i l o s o p h y,   s c i e n c e   a n d   m e d i c i n e which no longer had length (iii.51-6). A second kind of argument used by Sextus gets a purchase on the relationships between geometrical objects of  dimension   n  and  others  of  dimension   n⫺1,  e.g.  between  lines  and points, or between surfaces and lines. In such cases Sextus assumes that a line is composed of points as a surface is of lines, and that points and lines are limits of lines and surfaces respectively. The di√culties arise from the fact that the limit is interpreted as an extremity or part of something, and therefore, since it also has a dimension, to take it away from something reduces the size of the thing itself. A variation is the thesis that objects of dimension  n  are generated by flowing ( rhusis) from objects of dimension n⫺1, e.g. a line flowing from a point or a surface from a line. One objection amongst several to this thesis is that the point, considered incorporeal by geometers, cannot generate anything. Furthermore, if one thinks of  flowing  as  an  extension  from  one  place  to  another,  the  point  is  no longer without parts but formed of many parts, contrasting with the geometrical definition of a point. 
At  whom  was  Sextus  aiming  his  refutations?  Some  of  the  definitions criticized  correspond  to  those  found  in  Euclid's   Elements,  while  others crop  up  in  the  definitions  listed  by  Hero  (Eucl.  El.  i de◊.  2,  4,  5;  Hero iv.14.10-18.6; 20.12-22; 22.14-21). But in arguing against the mathematicians he sometimes makes assumptions which they would find di√cult to accept. For example, the assumption that a line consists of a collection or sum of points contradicts Euclid's first postulate, which requires the ability to draw straight lines connecting every point. Faced with a refutation based on this assumption, a geometer would have di√culty in getting himself to feel beaten. 
It  is  not  implausible  that  Sextus  also  had  other  targets.  Philo  of Alexandria refers to a doctrine which takes the treatment of the definitions  of  scientific  principles  as  relevant  to  philosophy.  It  is  philosophy which defines a point as something which has no parts, a line as length without  size  and  a  solid  as  something  with  three  dimensions.  Starting with  these  definitions,  geometry  discovered  other  notions,  such  as  the isosceles  and  scalene,  the  circle,  the  polygon  and  other  figures.9
Presumably the philosophers who claimed a monopoly on definitions of scientific principles were mostly Stoics. A series of definitions of points, lines, surfaces and bodies is attributed in D.L. vii.135 to the Stoics, with explicit  reference  to  the  work   On  Physics  by  the  Stoic  Apollodorus  of 9 Phil.  Congr.  146-7 (where he uses the same term θεµε!λιο, 'foundation', as Sextus  M  iii.10, 12; v.50; viii.373). From the parallel at Cic.  De Or.  i.187-9 one can assume that this theory had been advanced prior to the first century bc. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
s c e p t i c i s m   a n d   g e o m e t r y 593
Seleucia, pupil of Diogenes of Babylon. Here, as in Sextus about five centuries later, definitions of the same entities crop up again, conceived in terms of the notion of limits. But a serious concern with the problem of these  definitions  is  already  found  in  Plato,  the  early  Academy,  and Aristotle.10 In particular, definitions in terms of 'limits' and in terms of flowing were already widely known. One can therefore suppose that in attacking the definitions of fundamental geometrical entities Sextus and his ultimate sources were at the same time accusing also the dogmatic philosophers, who assumed responsibility for these definitions. 
The problem of the conceivability of geometrical entities also predates Sextus.  He  mentions  an  example  adapted  from  Aristotle  in  support  of thinking of the line as length without size: the fact that we understand the length of a wall without reference to its size is proof that it can be thought of in this way. The cogency of the argument is based on the supposition that what occurs and works on an experiential level is transferable by analogy  to  the  level  of  thought.  Sextus  concurs  with  this  supposition,  but makes the objection that we do not think of the wall as not having  any size, but only without the size that particular wall actually has.11 This line of argument and Aristotle's wall example were later used by the mathematician  Apollonius  of  Perge.  He  used  the  fact  that  we  can  perceive  the line which  separates  light  from  shadow  (Procl.  Eucl.  10 0.5-19;  Hero iv.16.5-16) to confirm at the sensible level that we can think of a line as length without size. Possibly Apollonius was in this way trying to reply to the objections of earlier philosophers. The Epicureans and in particular the  Stoics  had  listed  a  series  of  possible  ways  of  conceiving  intelligible entities (D.L. vii.52-3, x.32). Sextus took up these same methods, but put them to anti-dogmatic work with a view to showing that we cannot think of geometrical entities in the way they are defined by mathematicians and philosophers. 
He  was  convinced  that,  with  the  principles  destroyed,  the  theorems ( theore-mata)  which  followed  from  them  would  also  prove  inconsistent: since it had no objects on which to base its existence, geometry could not be an art. Nevertheless he dedicated the last section of  M iii (108-16) to showing that 'even if we disregard the principles, geometry can neither 10 See for example Plato  Men.  75d-76a; Arist.  Top.  vi.4.141b15-22;  Metaph.  Ν.3.1090b5-7;  An. 
i.4.409a4.  Authors  of  works  entitled  ο1ροι  are  the  Stoics  Sphaerus  (D.L.  vii.178),  Antipater (D.L. vii.60) and Chrysippus himself (see D.L. vii.199, under the title 1Ορων (τω4ν) κατα' τα' 
α3λλα τε!χνα, but in a collection of ethical writings). On the question of the ontological status of mathematical entities according to the Stoics, see Mansfeld 1978, 158-67. 
11  M  iii.57-9; see also  M  ix.412-13. This theory does not appear in extant Aristotelian texts; the definition of a line as length without size is discussed at  Top.  vi.6.143b11-32. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
594
p h i l o s o p h y,   s c i e n c e   a n d   m e d i c i n e construct nor demonstrate any theorem' (iii.93). As well as theorems in the technical sense, he was speaking of problems and operations such as bisecting a given straight line or dividing a circle into equal parts. In these cases too the di√culties arose from considering the relationships between objects  of  di◊erent  dimensions.  As  an  example  Sextus  assumes  that  a straight line consists of nine points. Its bisection would therefore result in two unequal segments or the bisection of a central point. But the latter would  be  impossible,  since  the  geometers  define  a  point  as  having  no dimensions. Sextus' last section shows formal parallels with the argument attributed by Proclus to Zeno of Sidon. In both cases an attempt is made to show that, even if the axioms are conceded, what follows from them is groundless. It should, however, be noted that Sextus makes no attempt to demonstrate the incompleteness of the collection of axioms. We certainly find indication of Epicurean arguments being used in Sextus' texts. One should remember that Demetrius Laco had also discussed the problem of bisecting the straight line. Sextus himself mentions an Epicurean objection to the idea of the revolution of a straight line (iii.98). 
But  it  would  be  restrictive  to  suppose  that  the  anti-geometric  argumentative arsenal used by Sextus was confined to Epicureanism.12 In particular, one should not underrate the possible influence of material from the sceptical Academy, as well as from Pyrrhonism. A passage of Cicero's seems to confirm that even in Academic circles the definitions of point, line and surface were discussed, 'the mathematical principles, which must be conceded if any progress ( progredi) is to be made' ( Acad. ii.116). This involves the distinction we have already met in Zeno of Sidon and Sextus between principles and what follows from them.13 Sources attribute to Arcesilaus study in mathematics first with Autolycus of Pitane and subsequently  at  Athens  with  Hipponicus  (D.L.  iv.29,  32).  The  axiomatic-deductive  structure  is  used  by  Autolycus  and  it  could  be  that Arcesilaus learnt its characteristics from him, even if there is no sign that he attacked the basics of geometry. But Galen explicitly says of Carneades that he threw into doubt Euclid's first common notion that 'magnitudes which are equal to each other are all equal'. Carneades' arguments, preserved in the writings of followers of his, were still available at the time, but Galen does not report them ( Opt. Doct. 2 i 45K). Sextus does not discuss this axiom; in general, he does not discuss Euclid's common notions 12 On the question of Sextus' Epicurean sources, in particular Zeno and Demetrius, see Angeli and Colaizzo 1979, 124-5; Gigante 1981, 210-14; Fowler 1984, 253-4. 
13 Cicero's  progredi  corresponds to Sextus' προκο!πτειν ( M  iii.18, 21; viii.369) and προβαι!νειν
(iii.65). 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
p h i l o s o p h y,   a s t r o n o m y   a n d   a s t r o l o g y 595
or his postulates, but only his definitions. One should compare this, however,  with  Apollonius  of  Perge's  position,  who  before  Carneades'  time had  demonstrated  Euclid's  first  axiom  by  using  the  idea  of  'occupying the same  space'  as  a  definition  of  equality  (Procl.  Eucl.  194.9-195.22). 
Apollonius' reason for devising this demonstration is not known. Proclus charges Apollonius with wanting to demonstrate an obvious thing by way of something obscure and controversial, i.e. space. If Carneades was aware that Apollonius had demonstrated this axiom, he might have considered it a confirmation of its non-self-evident character, or of the existence of a disagreement among the geometers themselves. The debate over the content  of  geometrical  definitions  must  have  developed  before  Carneades anyway:  Sextus  mentions  Eratosthenes  as  responding  to  objections against the idea of the line, supporting the thesis that a point does not occupy space, but produces a line by flowing ( M  iii.28). 
iv Philosophy, astronomy and astrology
Eratosthenes was the focus of contact between the world of the philosophers in Athens and the scientists in Alexandria. He lived in Athens at the time when Aristo of Chios and Arcesilaus were active there, and was subsequently invited by Ptolemy Euergetes to Alexandria, where he was head of the library. Archimedes dedicated his  Method for Theorems in Mechanics to him, characterizing him as a student of philosophy and someone able to appreciate  mathematics  (ii.428.18-24).  The  author  of  a  work  entitled Platonicus, he recognized in the idea of proportion the link between the di◊erent  mathematical  disciplines,  probably  by  developing  suggestions from the  Republic  and the  Timaeus.14 His most famous scientific achievement was the measuring of the circumference of the earth. But in uniting philosophical  interests  and  the  technical  investigations  of  astronomy, Eratosthenes is an exception. The dominant tendency implied a distinction in competences between astronomers and philosophers. The problems  of  measuring  dimensions  and  distances  of  celestial  bodies  and  the construction of geometrical models of planetary movements, reproduced by  mechanical  devices  since  the  time  of  Eudoxus  and  subsequently  by Archimedes, were reserved for astronomers. 
Epicurus' view regarding the division of responsibilities also represents an  exception,  but  of  a  di◊erent  kind  from  the  case  of  Eratosthenes. 
Epicurus rejected the use of orreries, because they did not allow people to 14 Theon Sm. 82.22-83.7; 107.15-24; Procl.  Eucl.  43.22-3. See Solmsen 1942. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
596
p h i l o s o p h y,   s c i e n c e   a n d   m e d i c i n e formulate in their minds a faithful reproduction of the phenomena that needed explaining. They were actually set up with the idea of determining the intrinsic properties of celestial bodies, which to us would appear to be characterized  only  by  accidental  properties.  The  verification  of  optical illusions raised doubts about the possibility of making accurate measurement  of  such  phenomena  from  a  position  of  terrestrial  observation.  In particular, the dimensions of the sun, which 'is just as it appears to us, but in itself is greater or smaller or as it appears', could not precisely be determined. The impossibility of determining precise measurements left open the entire gamut of possibilities and fed into the more general Epicurean objection to the pretexts of 'vain astronomy' of establishing a single cause for celestial phenomena. The analogy with terrestrial fires, which did not appear smaller even when at a distance, served to support the supposition that this also held true for the sun. The objective of these Epicurean considerations was probably to eliminate fears raised by the belief, shared by the Platonic Academy as the  Epinomis (983a) confirms, that the celestial bodies appeared small but in reality were not. Epicurus' battle with mathematical astronomy was one chapter in a more general struggle which he fought against superstitious fears and those philosophies which justified or encouraged them.15
The Stoics on the other hand saw the regularity of the movements of the celestial bodies, demonstrated by the astronomers, as confirmation of the divine order of the universe and the power of the stars over what happened on earth. Convinced that the sun was the directing principle of the cosmos and revolved round the earth to take nourishment from its humid exhalations,  Cleanthes  firmly  opposed  Aristarchus  of  Samos,  judged guilty  of  impiety  for  having  put  forward  the  theory  that  the  earth revolved around the sun, which he represented as immobile at the centre of  the  orbit  (Plu.  Fac.  Lun.  922f-923a;  Quaest.  Conv.  10 06c).  Perhaps Cleanthes thought that the positions of the celestial bodies in Aristarchus'
model would no longer help to sustain Stoic cosmology, such as the doctrine of cycles and conflagration. This was tied to the completion of the great year, determined by the return of the sun, the moon and the planets to  the  same  relative  position.  Aratus  of  Soli  echoed  Cleanthes'  Hymn  to Zeus  to celebrate the divine rule of the world also expressed in the action of the stars, in his 1154-hexameter poem entitled  Phainomena. As a true Hellenistic learned poet he furnished a detailed description of the constel-15 Ep.  Ep. Pyth.  86, 91, 93, 113-14; Lucr. v.564-91 and Demetr. Lac.  PHerc.  1013 (on the dimensions of the sun). See Sedley 1976b, Romeo 1979, Barnes 1989a and above pp. 418, 463, 505-7. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
p h i l o s o p h y,   a s t r o n o m y   a n d   a s t r o l o g y 597
lations, and recounted their mythical origins. But as to its strictly astronomical content Aratus' poem is limited to the reproduction of a similarly entitled treatise by Eudoxus. Its last part concerns meteorological predictions, and is founded on the assumption that our world is full of signs sent by the gods to indicate the best time to sow or sail, but makes no reference to the drawing up of horoscopes. Yet it was exactly the astrological use of astronomy which became the debating point among philosophers, especially between the Stoics and the Academic sceptics. 
The  technical  articulation  of  astrology  is  tied  to  the  development  of complex  procedures  of  observation  and  calculation.  These  were  developed  thanks  to  the  wide-ranging  gathering  of  numerical  data  collected from  observations,  which  was  undertaken  by  Hipparchus  of  Nicea  and others. Hipparchus seems to have displayed a certain interest in Stoicism. 
He criticized, how is not clear, the calculus of combinatorial logic of the conjunction of propositions made by Chrysippus (Plu.  Stoic. Rep. 1047c-e; Quaest. Conv. 732f ), while he shared with the Stoics the doctrine of weight as a propensity towards rest and as the capacity of bodies to resist movement (Simp.  Cael. 264.25-266.3), as distinct from the notion of weight as the  tendency  to  move  downwards  and  to  the  centre,  proposed  by Aristotle.16 This  does  not  mean  that  Hipparchus  was  an  adherent  of Stoicism, nor that Stoicism or any other philosophy exerted a direct influence on the development of mathematical astronomy. Later sources associate  Hipparchus  with  astrology,  but  it  is  di√cult  to  assess  their reliability. In fact, in his only surviving work, a commentary on Aratus, Hipparchus severely criticizes the astronomical part of the poem but says nothing  about  the  last  section,  which  deals  with  meteorological  forecasts.17 The earliest example known to us of a horoscope appears in the first century bc, but the possibility of drawing up horoscopes relies on data and calculations made in the second century bc by Hipparchus and later by Hypsicles in his work  On Ascension. Horoscopes di◊er from simple predictions of the manner of one's death based on the date of one's birth, since they require the determination of the planetary positions within the signs of the zodiac at the point of birth, and therefore use tables which supply degrees and measurements to determine these positions. Euclid's Phenomena  contains theories about the rise and fall of zodiacal signs, but does not give numerical data. In this context it seems more credible to 16 On the Stoic theory of weight and gravity see pp. 443-8. 
17 On the possible connections of Hipparchus' doctrine of weight with Stoic theories see Wol◊
1988; on his astronomical investigations see Neugebauer 1975, in particular vol. i, 277-8, 331-2
for the problems of astrology; on Aratus' commentary see Franco Repellini 1985. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
598
p h i l o s o p h y,   s c i e n c e   a n d   m e d i c i n e assume that astrology took o◊ in the Greek world in the second, rather than in the third century bc.18
The  battle  which  from  this  point  on  took  place  among  philosophers who were for or against astrology was absorbed into the wider argument about  divination  and  divine  providence.  The  philosophical  support  for astrology as a valid form of divination found in it a confirmation of determinism and cosmic harmony. This was the way the Stoics went; they were opposed  by  the  Academic  sceptics,  in  particular  Carneades,  who  in  his polemic  against  divination  and  the  possibility  of  predicting  the  future may  have  included  a  consideration  of  astrology.  But  not  all  Stoics defended astrology to the end. Diogenes of Seleucia thought it was limited to the prediction of individual dispositions, not of particular events (Cic.  Div. ii.90). This restriction must have been drawn from the counter-example of twins, mentioned by Carneades in order to show that individuals born at the same time could have di◊erent lives and deaths. Panaetius added that he doubted the existence of a capacity for divination and, alone among  Stoics  according  to  Cicero  ( Div.  i.6;  ii.88),  rejected  astrological predictions.  Cicero  specifically  mentions  Panaetius  as  the  source  of  the arguments  against  astrology  put  forward  in  his  work   On  Divination (ii.87-97). These are followed by other arguments in ii.97-9, which may have their source in Carneades. The second book of Cicero's work contains material opposing astrology, which could have come from either the Academy or Panaetius. But the first book does not put forward arguments in favour of astrology. From this one can presume that the Stoics adopted only general formulations or that it was enough for them to recognize the existence  of  astrological  and  divinatory  predictions  in  general  without examining the reasons for them. As an indication of the validity of astrological knowledge, the Stoic spokesman in Cicero's work limits himself to examples from ancient tradition: the Chaldeans recorded their observations over the course of thousands of centuries. This a√rmation is bru-tally rubbished in the second book: there is no evidence of this practice of recording and if it had existed it would not have come to an end.19
Another source concerned with the arguments against astrology is S.E. 
 M  v, where two levels of objection to astrology are distinguished: the first opposes it in principle and the second concerns the e◊ects which should follow from the configuration of signs and planets at the moment of birth. 
The  first  objections  are  epistemological  and  methodological  and  are 18 In support of the second century bc, see Neugebauer 1975, vol. ii, 607-13 and Long 1982a; in support of bringing it back to the time of Chrysippus see Ioppolo 1985a. On astrology see also Bouché-Leclercq 1899 and, on the problems connected with divination and determinism, see above, pp. 534-7. 
19 Cic.  Div.  i.2; i.36-7; i.111; ii.97. See also S.E.  M  v.103-5. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
a n a t o m y   a n d   p h i l o s o p h i c a l   q u e s t i o n s 599
directed towards showing the impossibility of constructing a horoscope, since  it  is  impossible  to  observe  and  to  record  accurately  and  simultaneously the precise moment of birth and the astral configuration which goes with it. This more technical aspect is missing from Cicero's text, which is limited to pointing out that astrologers' observations depend on 'that most unreliable of senses', sight ( Div. ii.91). 
The objections put forward by Cicero are instead directed at destroying or putting into doubt the general assumption of astrology, that is, that individual events necessarily depend on the influence exerted by the stars at the time of one's birth. But, says Cicero, it is di√cult to believe that the di◊erences in the distances of the planets from the earth are irrelevant, or that an influence could not come even from an almost infinite distance. 
Furthermore,  the  consequences  produced  by  the  influence  of  the  stars must be unchangeable. But physical malformations present at birth can be corrected, by surgery for example. His final objection comes from the fact  that  the  position  of  the  planets  and  zodiacal  signs  at  a  particular moment vary according to the place of observation. The general conclusion  from  this  first  series  of  arguments,  which  Cicero  claimed  to  have drawn from Panaetius, is that people born at the same time have di◊erent fates.  Other  arguments  follow  which  show  close  parallels  with  Sextus'
second section, regarding the outcome of the supposed causal activity of the stars.20 The first two are presented in the form of a rhetorical interrogation,  which  comes  to  a  necessarily  negative  response;  the  one  starts from the point of view of the moment of death, the other from that of the moment of birth. Those who die in the same battle have the same destiny: should  one  conclude  that  they  were  all  born  at  the  same  time? 
Alternatively, many people are born at the same moment: would they all have become a Homer? Two other arguments establish the arbitrariness of confining the influence of the stars to the destiny of human individuals, taking  it  as  absurd  that  the  destiny  of  animals  and  inanimate  objects should also be determined by the stars. The arsenal of arguments for and against astrology increased after the Hellenistic era, when other astronomers dedicated to astrology, such as Ptolemy, entered into the discussion. 
v Anatomy and philosophical questions
Links  between  philosophy  and  medicine  are  recorded  in  the  fifth  and fourth centuries bc, but there is no complete surviving medical text from 20 The first set of arguments is laid out in  Div.  ii.91-5; the second in ii.97-9 with parallels, but not in the same order, in S.E.  M  v.88-94 and Favorinus in Gell. xiv.1.26-31. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
600
p h i l o s o p h y,   s c i e n c e   a n d   m e d i c i n e the Hellenistic age earlier than the commentary on Hippocrates'  On Joints, written in the first century bc by the Empiricist physician Apollonius of Citium.  Most  of  our  information  on  Hellenistic  medicine  comes  from works  written  in  the  Imperial  age,  like  the   De  Medicina  of  Celsus,  who worked in the first century bc; the so-called  Anonymus Londinensis, a papyrus which probably dates from the second century ad, belonging at least partly  to  a  doxographical  tradition  originating  with  Aristotle  and  concluding  with  a  section  on  the  development  of  physiological  doctrines from Herophilus to the first century ad; the work on  Women's Illnesses  by Soranus,  a  doctor  belonging  to  the  Methodist  school  of  thought  and active in the first half of the second century ad, as well as the author of a work on acute and chronic diseases, translated and reworked into Latin by Caelius Aurelianus (fifth century ad); and above all various works by Galen,  especially   De  Sectis  ad  Ingredientes ( SI),  De  Placitis  Hippocratis  et Platonis ( PHP),  De Naturalibus Facultatibus ( Nat. Fac. ),  De Usu Partium ( UP) and  De Methodo Medendi ( MM), and writings attributed to him erroneously such as  Introductio sive medicus ( Int.), the  Definitiones medicae ( def. Med. ) and De optima secta ( Opt. Sect. ). It was above all Galen who established connections  between  the  doctrines  espoused  by  doctors  in  the  Hellenistic  age and philosophical views previous to or contemporary with these, but it is not always easy to determine whether these are actual historical links or a√liations devised by Galen himself or his sources. 
A conspicuous novelty in Hellenistic medicine was the systematic use of anatomical dissection of human bodies, even if only for a brief period -
the  first  half  of  the  third  century  bc -  and  possibly  only  in  Alexandria. 
According to Celsus this would have applied to the vivisection of criminals,  which  were  put  at  the  disposal  of  Herophilus  of  Chalcedon  and Erasistratus of Ceos by the rulers of Alexandria.21 The use of dissection led to problems which also attracted the attention of philosophers, like the  explanation  of  voluntary  and  involuntary  movements  and  the  anatomical  position  of  the  principle  which  directs  psychic  activity.  In   De Motu Animalium  Aristotle, in order to explain the transmission of voluntary movements produced by intellect and appetition, had recourse to the notion of the  pneuma  as a vehicle for them. 
A learned doctor from the end of the fourth century, Praxagoras of Cos, had recognized the heart as the central organ of psychic and vital functions,  but  had  distinguished  between  veins  and  arteries  and  shown  the 21 Cels.  Prooem.  23-4; see also Tert.  An.  10.4 and 25.5. There are doubts about the evidence of Celsus raised in Fraser 1969, but in opposition to these see Lloyd 1975 and von Staden 1989, 139-53. In general see also Edelstein 1932 and Kudlien 1969. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
a n a t o m y   a n d   p h i l o s o p h i c a l   q u e s t i o n s 601
canals in the latter through which the  pneuma  carried its functions: the heart was the organ which helped to distribute to the body blood through the veins and  pneuma  through the arteries.22 The dissection practised by Alexandrian doctors allowed the identification of relevant functions originating in the brain. Thanks to this Herophilus was able to observe the ventricles of the brain and to show in one of these the site of the central psychic organ and, in general, the origin of nerves in the brain, divided into  sensory  and  motor  nerves.  Erasistratus  also  proceeded  along  this path, advancing the theory that the brain's ventricles contained  pneuma, which was transmitted to the nerves; he called this kind of  pneuma  psychic to distinguish it from vital  pneuma, present in the heart and arteries (it is not  clear  on  what  grounds).23 In  both  cases,  however,  they  were  kept going by air taken in from outside by respiration; but in our documentation on Herophilus and Erasistratus there is no trace of the inborn  pneuma of which Aristotle had spoken. It was instead the Stoics who took up this Aristotelian notion and gave support to the theory that the heart was the central organ of psychic functions. 
According to Galen, Chrysippus maintained that the left ventricle of the  heart  contained  psychic   pneuma,  while  Erasistratus  thought  it  contained vital  pneuma. This disagreement was connected with the fact that while Chrysippus thought that there was only one origin for the nerves and veins, that is the heart, Erasistratus distinguished between the brain, the origin of the nerves, and the heart which was the origin both of the veins, which contained only blood, and of the arteries, which contained only vital  pneuma.24 It is perhaps not clear whether the contrast between Chrysippus and Erasistratus was emphasized by Galen or reflects an argument  taken  directly  from  Chrysippus.  A  verbatim  quotation  by  Galen ( PHP  iii.1,  v 287-9K,  pp.  20 0-2  De  Lacy)  from  the  first  book  of Chrysippus'   On  the  soul  shows  that  he  knew  a  doxographical  scheme which contrasted the di◊erent theses which, in a medical and philosophical context, placed the commanding principle ( he-ge-monikon) of the soul in the chest  or in the head or in  a  specific part of these parts of the body. 
Chrysippus does not name the supporters of the various theories, apart from Plato; parallel passages in other authors fill this gap and explicitly 22 For what follows see also above, pp. 567-72. 
23 On the question of the nerves see Solmsen 1961 and Vegetti 1993; on Herophilus in particular see von Staden 1989, 247-59; on the theory of respiration see Furley and Wilkie 1984; on the vascular system see Harris 1973. 
24 Gal.  PHP  i.6, v 185K; ii.8, v 281K, and also  Di◊. Puls.  viii 759K and  Foet. Form.  4, iv 674K. On the Stoic concept of  pneuma  in cosmology and psychology see above, pp. 440-1 and 562-72; on psychology see Annas 1992a and Tieleman 1996. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
602
p h i l o s o p h y,   s c i e n c e   a n d   m e d i c i n e mention  Erasistratus.  One  cannot  therefore  rule  out  that  Chrysippus knew Erasistratus' view, if only by way of doxography, even if there is no evidence that he had read Erasistratus.25 He supported Praxagoras' theory  not  because  he  considered  him  a  better  anatomist,  but  because  his tenet  was  in  agreement  with  the  conclusions  of  non-anatomical  arguments which Chrysippus thought cogent and decisive.26 The question of the location of the directive principle of the soul continued to be debated among philosophers, with opinion clearly favouring the heart and not for anatomical  reasons.  This  is  the  position,  following  Chrysippus'  line,  of Diogenes of Babylon, author of a work entitled  On the Regent Part of the Soul. Epicurus, starting from analysis of the passions, came to the same conclusion, though he did not share the Stoic theory of the unity of the soul: he placed it in the chest, and his school seems to have devoted some energy to supporting him on this point.27
Was the structure of organs and their connections, brought to light by dissection, enough on its own to explain their functions? This question had already troubled Aristotle, and we learn from Cicero ( Fin. iii.18) that even among doctors there was a dispute about the function of individual parts. Erasistrateans contemporary with Galen praised their founder for having followed Theophrastus and the Peripatetic philosophers.28 Galen thought  the  Peripatetic  connection  counterfeit,  made  up  by  the Erasistrateans  with  the  aim  of  ennobling  their  own  sect  by  inferring  a doctrinal a√nity with Aristotelian tradition. He felt that Erasistratus and the  Peripatetics  had  only  one  idea  in  common,  namely  that  nature  did nothing pointlessly. This was, however, a purely verbal agreement, since in practice Erasistratus destroyed this claim through his explanation of the  functioning  of  the  individual  organs.  He  only  referred  to  their mechanical  movements,  such  as  the  opening  and  closing  of  the  cardiac valves in relation to the working of the heart ( PHP  vi.6, v 549-50K, p. 396
De Lacy) or the epiglottis, which by closing prevented the mixing of air breathed in with ingested food and drink (Plu.  Quaest. Conv. 698a-d). In the  case  of  the  epiglottis  and  also  of  the  spleen,  it  is  interesting  that 25 See Mansfeld 1989c and 1990a. 
26 See also Gal.  PHP  i.7, v 189K, and see the quotation from Chrysippus'  Physical questions  at Plu. 
 Stoic. Rep.  1047c on his caution about questions which for their solution require  empeiria  and historia, like those of the epiglottis. On Chrysippus' methodology see Tieleman 1996, 147-255. 
27 On Diogenes see  SVF  iii Diog. 27-39, and Tieleman 1996, 66-106. On Epicurus see D.L. x.66; Lucr. iii.138-42; Demetr. Lac.  PHerc.  1012, col. 46-7 Puglia. 
28  Nat. Fac.  ii.4, ii 88-93K;  Art. Sang.  7, iv 729K. One cannot eliminate the possibility that those to  whom  D.L.  v.57  attributes  the  information,  credible  to  him,  that  Erasistratus  had  been Theophrastus' pupil were Erasistrateans. See also S.E.  M  i.258. On the relationship between Erasistratus and Aristotle see Lonie 1964; Scarborough 1985; see now Von Staden 1997. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
a n a t o m y   a n d   p h i l o s o p h i c a l   q u e s t i o n s 603
Erasistratus' view was similar to that of Aristotle, who did not consider such organs useful in themselves, even if nature could make advantageous use of them, and had consequently suggested that a teleological explanation should not be sought in all cases.29
Galen,  however,  made  no  comment  about  this  agreement  with Aristotle, just as he was silent in his  Procatarctic Causes  about the absence in Erasistratus of his supposed teleology. On the other hand, he records ( PHP
vii.3, v 602-4K, pp. 440-2 De Lacy; cf.  UP  viii.13, iii 673-4K) a quotation from Erasistratus, from which it appears that the great complexity of the anatomical  structure  of  the  human  brain  depends  on  the  superiority  of human thought over that of animals. Galen was a shade embarrassed, especially in  Natural Faculties  and  The Use of Parts, in discussing the relationships between anatomy and physiology according to Erasistratus. He was unable to place Erasistratus among either the supporters or the opponents of the teleological interpretation of nature, and therefore adopted a strategy  similar  to  that  used  by  Plato  in  the   Phaedo  regarding  Anaxagoras: Erasistratus had sung the praises of a nature which did nothing without a purpose and exhibited a providential concern for living things. But when it came to explaining the function and use of individual parts of the body, he failed to come up with a teleological explanation.30
Galen interpreted this as an explicit denial of the presence of a final cause in nature; perhaps however Erasistratus simply avoided the larger issue and limited himself to a general appreciation of the well-ordered structure of the organs. It is useful to recall that according to Plutarch ( Am. Prol. 495c) Erasistratus had declared that 'nature has no trumpery ( rho-pikon) about her'; but this is not the same as suggesting that 'nature does  nothing  without  a  purpose'.  Perhaps  Erasistratus  conceived  of nature not in terms of intentionality but in those of a good disposition of the complex of organs, which is not incompatible with his mechanistic explanations of various physiological processes, such as digestion, the secretion of bile and urine, the flow of blood, and respiration. In these cases,  as  in  the  problem  of  why  when  an  artery,  which  contains  only pneuma,  is  seen  to  emit  blood  and  not   pneuma  when  punctured, Erasistratus made use of the notion of 'following into what is empty'
(προ'  το' κενου!µενον  α0κολουθι!α),  which  implies  that  there  is  never 29 Arist.  PA  iii.670b31-3 on the spleen, together with iv.677a15-19; on the epiglottis,  PA  iii.664b 20-665a26 and  Resp.  476a23-b12 (see Repici 1990). 
30 There are numerous passages to this e◊ect in Galen: see for example  UP  v.5, iii 364-5K;  Nat. 
 Fac.  ii.2, ii 78K; ii 3, ii.81 and 87K;  At. Bil.  7, v 131-2K;  Ven. Sect. Er.  xi 158K, where the term προνοητικη! appears again; there is no proof that this term was used by Erasistratus himself, under the influence of the Stoa,  pace  Pohlenz 1967, i 336. See Lloyd 1991b. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
604
p h i l o s o p h y,   s c i e n c e   a n d   m e d i c i n e anything actually in a state of emptiness. It is probable, judging from a quotation in Galen ( Nat. Fac. ii.6, ii 99K), that Erasistratus recognized the di◊erence between massed empty space, which he rejected, and dispersed  void,  which  he  was  not  concerned  with.  Both  concepts  were found useful by Hero, whose source is identified as Strato of Lampsacus, but there is no proof of a direct derivation of Erasistratus' theory from Strato's, even though the latter had sojourned in Alexandria.31
vi Medical knowledge and experience
Medicine in the ancient world did not constitute a unified field of knowledge, founded on the acceptance of common assumptions, theories and methods,  but  was  criss-crossed  with  other  theories,  often  radical  ones, about the character of medical knowledge and the roads leading to it. A common weakness at the therapeutic level helped to accentuate competition among doctors at the theoretical level and prompted them to adopt and  elaborate  upon  doctrines  and  techniques  which  originally  were employed in a philosophical context. In their turn the doctors proceeded to put together their own arguments which could be transferred to the arena of philosophical discussions, with the consequence that on specific questions, especially epistemic ones, the boundaries of medicine and philosophy  remained  fluid,  even  if,  because  of  the  lack  of  evidence,  it  is almost always impossible to identify the exact direction of these flows and currents between philosophy and medicine.32
A  key  moment  in  the  epistemological  discussions  began  when  some doctors, perhaps as early as the second half of the third century bc, defined themselves as Empiricists in opposition to other doctors, designated collectively  under  the  general  label  of  Rationalists.33 The  Empiricists counted among the Rationalists all those who made the basis of medical knowledge a theory regarding the nature of the human body, its structure and functions, its normal or pathological states and the causes which produced them. The task of elaborating these theories was given to reason, which was capable of inferring, from what was visible, the existence of 31 On the question of empty space see Furley 1985, Vallance 1990, 63-78, Algra 1995, 53-69 and Sedley in this volume. 
32 See Edelstein 1952 and Frede 1986a. 
33 The earliest evidence for the existence of the name 'Empiricist' dates to the end of the second or the  beginning  of  the  first  century  bc,  in   PHerc.  1012,  where  in  col.  23  Puglia,  Demetrius  of Laconia mentions Apollonius the Empiricist; the text of col. 58 Puglia appears to claim that all sensations  are  false,  which  is  of  course  not  easily  compatible  with  medical  Empiricism. 
However, the attribution of this section to Apollonius, by Gigante 1981, 173, is conjectural, and seems also unlikely. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
m e d i c a l   k n o w l e d g e   a n d   e x p e r i e n c e 605
theoretically  unobservable  entities.  This  general  characterization  overlooked the often radical di◊erences among the various doctors who could be characterized as Rationalists, but was found to be an economical and useful device particularly for purposes of controversy. We are told that the Empiricist  Serapion  of  Alexandria,  mentioned  in  various  texts  as  the founder of the Empiricist school, whose  floruit  can be placed around 225
bc, had written a work entitled  Against the sects. If this information is reliable it is not unlikely that he will have made use of the mostly polemical literature  On sects, also widespread in philosophical circles from the time of Hippobotus.34
The most important sources for Empiricist medicine are the preface to Celsus'  de Medicina  and three works by Galen:  An Outline of Empiricism  preserved in Latin translation,  On Medical Experience, surviving only in Arabic apart from two short sections in Greek, and  On Sects for the Beginners.35
These  works  presuppose  the  existence  of  three  schools  among  doctors, named  respectively  Rationalists,  Empiricists  and  Methodists,  who  are presented as being at odds among themselves over how to get to know and to  practise  the  correct  treatment  of  illnesses.  Unlike  the  first  two,  the Methodist tendency was formed and established only in the first century ad, thanks principally to the work of Thessalos, a contemporary of Nero. 
For the Methodists medical practice could be learned in a short time and required only the recognition of three generalities or recurrent common features (κοινο!τητε): all illnesses were in fact forms of constriction, dilation or both. 
The theory worked out by Asclepiades of Bithynia, who lived between the second and the early first century bc, is perhaps based on this conception, although he is usually placed among the Rationalist doctors and connected with the tradition of philosophical atomism. Indeed, according to Asclepiades the body was composed of invisible corpuscles and pores, and illnesses were caused by the obstruction of such pores or an excessive flow through them.36 But in contrast to Asclepiades the Methodists did not consider the state of constriction or dilation to be hidden, unobservable and  inferable  only  by  reason.  These  conditions  were  actually  directly observable,  although  their  recognition  (contrary  to  the  opinion  of  the Empiricists) did not require experience or repeated observations. These 34 See Cael. Aurel.  Acut. Morb.  ii.6.32; Gal.  Lib. Prop.  xix 38K and  Subf. Emp.  11, p. 86.1-9. See above, pp. 19-23. 
35 The second is translated by R. Walzer and the other two by M. Frede in Walzer and Frede 1985. 
The documentation on the Empiricists is collected in Deichgräber 1965 (1930); on Celsus see Mudry  1982.  In  general  on  Empiricist  doctors,  as  well  as  Deichgräber,  see  Edelstein  1933, Marelli 1981, Viano 1981 and especially Frede 1987b, 1988 and 1990. 
36 See Vallance 1990. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
606
p h i l o s o p h y,   s c i e n c e   a n d   m e d i c i n e pathological states, as soon as they were observed, immediately furnished an indication of the means by which they could be cured, namely constriction by means of dilation and conversely, just as hunger immediately indicates  a  need  for  food  (S.E.  PH  i.238-40).  The  accounts  of  Hellenistic medicine supplied by texts from the Imperial age, therefore, reflect in an advanced stage discussions and polemics which had gone on among those belonging  to  these  three  schools  about  the  origins,  characteristics  and scope of medical knowledge. It is accordingly not always easy to retrace the original physiognomy of the Empiricist school, still less to identify its precise relationship with previous or contemporary philosophies. 
The general theory that medical knowledge is acquired only through experience can be attributed to the early Empiricists. Medicine was a collection of theorems, i.e. direct personal observations ( autopsia) of whatever  proved  beneficial  or  harmful  to  sick  people  not  just  once,  but repeatedly. These observations were not deliberate but - for the most part
- casual or improvised and, according to the Empiricists, one could not raise  in  advance  the  issue  of  the  relevance  of  what  was  to  be  observed. 
Rationalist doctors would object that only reason allowed one to decide what should be observed, but this objection focuses upon the notion of intentional observation, which according to the Empiricists is not equally relevant. For them, what was important was not the reason why remedies are successful, but the fact that they have been successful. Past experience informed them of this. But the observations of one individual were not on their own enough to constitute medical experience; it took the accumulated experience of numerous individuals over the course of time. For this, an essential ingredient of medical knowledge was  historia, the collection of facts recorded by other people from their own observations. 
Later  on,  the  problem  of  evaluating  the  reliability  of  these  accounts may have been put to the Empiricists: among their criteria they list agreement among however many people had written about a particular thing or  event,  as  long  as  it  was  something  observable.  Galen  ( Subf.  Emp.  8, p. 68.8-13)  uses  the  example,  also  found  in  the  Epicurean  Philodemus ( Sign. col. 32.13-21), of Crete, Sicily and Sardinia, which even those who had not visited them considered to be islands, since those who did have direct  experience  of  them  agreed  in  calling  them  islands.  According  to Celsus  ( Prooem.  17  and  36),  the  Empiricists,  following  the  Hippocratic treatise  On the Places in Man (vi 342 l), thought that all remedies had been discovered and that there could be no new kinds of illness. This was a subject  discussed  again  in  the  Imperial  age  in  a  non-medical  context  (Plu. 
 Quaest. Conv. viii.9). 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
m e d i c a l   k n o w l e d g e   a n d   e x p e r i e n c e 607
There seems to be a contrast between this conviction about the definitive acquisition of medical knowledge and a third ingredient of the craft of medicine, 'the transition to the similar', attributed in the sources to the Empiricists. This referred to a situation in which one is fighting against a disease which has not previously been observed, or one which is known but in a place in which treatment is not known to be definitely e◊ective. 
In such cases, treatment shown to be beneficial for a particular organ or disease is appropriate to a similar organ or disease, as is a remedy similar to one already tried out, but still related to the same illness. The 'transition to the similar' involves a conscious and intentional extension of experience  already  acquired  to  cases  not  yet  studied,  and  has  heuristic  overtones, not immediately reconcilable with the purely receptive character of the original notion of experience. It was actually introduced later on by the  Empiricists,  but  the  titles  of  works  by  Serapion  and  Glaucias  of Tarentum (a little after Serapion), respectively the  Per tria sermo ('Account of  the  Three')  and  the   Tripod,  mentioned  by  Galen  ( Subf.  Emp.  11,  p. 
83.22-3), could lead one to attribute this third element of medical skill to early Empiricists. 
In  the  second  century ad,  however,  Menodotus  maintained  that Serapion had not thought of the transition to the similar as a third constituent  part  of  medicine,  but  only  made  use  of  it,  while  the  Pyrrhonist Cassius sought to show that he had not even used it at all ( Subf. Emp. 4, p. 
49.23-31). Because the ancient sources fail to provide indubitable information, it is di√cult to determine with certainty whether Serapion had already worked out the concept of the transition to the similar in an articulate  way,  though  this  cannot  be  excluded  insofar  as  Glaucias  is  concerned. 
The early Empiricists' theory of experience was not created out of thin air: it had predecessors in areas which were not only medical, such as the Hippocratic treatise  On Ancient Medicine, but also non-medical, such as the historians who indicated sight and hearing as the basic channels by which information was recorded, or philosophers like Plato and Aristotle who had already taken note of the connections between perception, memory and experience.37 In antiquity Empirical medicine and sceptical philosophy were already put on a par because both contended that one should suspend judgement about the things that are obscure, and concentrate on the  phainomena  instead. Yet it does not follow that the Empiricists raised 37 See  for  example  Plato   Grg.  448c,  501a;  Rep.  516c-d;  Arist.  Metaph.  Α.980a27-981b2;  APo. 
99b36-10 0a9; D.L. x.33 for Epicurus and Aët. iv.11 for the Stoics. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
608
p h i l o s o p h y,   s c i e n c e   a n d   m e d i c i n e doubts about the reliability of the perceptions, or even denied this reliability by employing arguments which would show that perceptions are relative.  The  problems  about  whether  the  senses  were  deceptive  or whether what appeared was as it appeared or whether it was possible to distinguish between true or false observations do not seem to have been among the concerns of the Empiricists, who gave credence to their own perceptions and, under certain conditions, also trusted those of others. 
Nor did they seem to share with the Academics and Pyrrhonists (Cic.  ND
i.62;  S.E.  PH  i.88-9,  ii.45)  the  refusal  to  consider  favourably  any  argument  based  on  the  consensus  of  everyone  or  the  majority.  In  fact,  they considered that the same thing or event or sequence of events could be observed in the same way by di◊erent observers even when separated by time  or  space.  It  was  actually  the  Rationalist  doctors  who  formulated sceptic arguments against the Empiricists' theory of experience, by asking  how  it  was  possible  to  know  that  one  illness  is  always  the  same  as another,  and  that what one individual  sees is  the same as what another sees, or by using sorites arguments to show that it was impossible for the Empiricists to determine the number of observations necessary to make a theorem of medical practice acceptable.38
vii Medical disputes and philosophical
arguments
Medical  doctrines  considered  Rationalist  often  introduced  entities  and states which were unobservable, not only occasionally but by their very nature.  A  typical  case  was  that  presented  by  Erasistratus,  who  had assumed the existence of  pneuma  in the arteries, of a flow of blood from the veins into the arteries in pathological situations through small canals called  anastomo-seis, and of the so-called  triplokia, that is, the structure of veins, arteries and nerves as constituted by the interlacing of these three kinds of vessel, introduced so as to explain how the nerves could be nourished. Erasistratus had also conducted experiments with the aim of proving the occurrence of events which were not directly observed.39 For the Empiricists  it  was  a  matter  of  combating  the  pretensions  involved  in inferring what was unobservable and attributing to reason a role in the acquisition of medical knowledge. In this respect their view turned out to have an a√nity with that of the sceptic philosophers. 
38 Gal.  Med. Exp.  4 and 7. See Barnes 1982b, Burnyeat 1982b. 
39 See  Gal.  Art.  Sang.  vi 708-9K;  UP  vii.8,  iii 537-8K;  Nat.  Fac.  ii.6,  ii 95-6K;  Anon.  Lond. 
xxi.23-33 and xxxiii.43-51. On experiments see Lloyd 1964 and von Staden 1975. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
m e d i c a l   d i s p u t e s   a n d   p h i l o s o p h i c a l   a r g u m e n t s 609
An attempt to connect the Empiricist physicians with the Pyrrhonist school  by  inserting  them  into  the  succession  that  begins  with  Pyrrho appears in D.L. ix.115-16, but probably is an elaborate construction by later  Pyrrhonists.40 The  information  in  D.L.  ix.109  that  Timon  taught medicine to his son Xanthus and made him his heir has led to the hypothesis that Timon also was a doctor. This does not entail that Xanthus succeeded Timon as head of a school; in fact Xanthus is not mentioned in the Pyrrhonist  succession  and  Diogenes  reports  the  view  of  Menodotus, according to whom Timon had no successors at all. Galen ( Subf. Emp. 1, p. 
43.2-3), in his turn, also names Timon among the founders to whom the Empiricists might have traced their movement, and presents Menodotus as a Dogmatist who did not hesitate to make assertions, unlike Pyrrho, who  was  praised  by  Menodotus  nevertheless.  The  attitude  of  a  true Empiricist  towards  medicine  is  compared  in  Galen's  text  to  that  of  a Pyrrho towards life (11, pp. 82.20-83.2 and pp. 84.31-85.3). On the other hand, Sextus Empiricus links Empiricist medicine with Academic philosophy,  which  dogmatically  claims  that  things  cannot  be  understood, unlike  the  true  sceptic  who  suspends  judgement  ( PH  i.236-41;  cf.  M
viii.191).  These  discussions  on  the  relationship  of  Empiricist  medicine with Academic scepticism or with (Neo-)Pyrrhonism assume that a distinction  between  these  two  schools  had  already  been  worked  out. 
Therefore  it  probably  dates  to  a  subsequent  stage  in  the  rebirth  of Pyrrhonism, and to the work of Aenesidemus in the first century bc.41
To the Empiricists even anatomy, as a means of conducting intentional observations in artificial conditions, seemed completely untrustworthy. 
They rejected vivisection, calling it a useless cruelty since in fact it coincided with the dissection of a corpse and did not supply any further information. The dissection of corpses, in its turn, produced alterations in the object of observation, and it was therefore impossible to maintain that the body's internal parts, once they had been artificially exposed, remained in the same condition as before. This objection came up again in the context of the Academic argument in support of the unknowability of things, as Cicero shows ( Acad. ii.122). Moreover, the Empiricists refused to accept the  hypothesis  that  systematic  anatomical  inquiry  leads  to  knowledge. 
Such knowledge could not in fact be superior to that resulting from casual 40 See above, p. 46. 
41 Edelstein  1933  has  drawn  attention  to  the  Academy  as  an  outlet  for  scepticism  in  the Hellenistic age and therefore as an appropriate target of confrontation for Empiricist medicine; on the a√nity with the Academics in the presentation of the Empiricists in Celsus see Mudry  1990.  For  the  relationship  with  Pyrrhonism  see  Decleva  Caizzi  1986  and  especially 1992a. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
610
p h i l o s o p h y,   s c i e n c e   a n d   m e d i c i n e observation of the configuration, the location and the order of internal parts, when these were uncovered in the bodies of wounded gladiators, soldiers,  or  travellers  attacked  by  bandits.42 But  one  should  not  forget that  Herophilus  had  been  cautious  about  the  knowledge  furnished  by anatomical descriptions: this was a necessary point of departure, but not su√cient  to  develop  a  theory  regarding  the  functions  of  bodily  parts. 
According to Galen ( Foet. Form. iv 678-9K), Herophilus thought it necessary  to  integrate  anatomical  observation,  but  this  integration  was  supplied by other appearances ( phainomena) rather than by theory ( logos) or the  appeal  to  theoretically  unobservable  entities.  This  was  perhaps  his basic methodological precept: 'Let the appearances be described first even if they are not primary.'43
Even before the Empiricists, Herophilus had criticized the concept of cause through the following kind of argument: if there is a cause, it must be A or B or C; but neither A nor B nor C; therefore cause does not exist. 
Such arguments are mentioned by Galen ( CP  13.162-4 and 16.197-204) and they reappear, in the same order, with expanded demonstrations of why neither A nor B nor C in Sextus ( M  ix.207, 210, 227-36); here they are attributed  to  anonymous   apore-tikoi ('problem-seekers').  This  has  led  to the  suggestion  that  Herophilus  drew  on  sceptic  arguments,  but  it  has been  rightly  observed  that  sceptical  arguments  about  causality  are  not attested for Aenesidemus' predecessors; it is therefore wise to assume a medical origin for them. This does not entail that the disjunctive form was invented by Herophilus, for this is already found in earlier philosophers, e.g.  Gorgias  in  the   Helen,  or  Zeno  of  Elea's  or  Diodorus  Cronus'  arguments  against  motion.  An  anecdote  (S.E.  PH  ii.245)  recounts  that Diodorus, having dislocated an arm, went to Herophilus for a cure, but was told: 'Your shoulder has been put out either in the place where it was or where it was not; but it was put out neither where it was nor where it was not; therefore it has not been put out.' There is, of course, no proof of the accuracy of this tale, which nevertheless is not a banal repetition of Diodorus' argument against motion, in which the verbs used are in the present tense. The use of verbs in the perfect and imperfect tenses in the anecdote seems intentionally designed to attack the possibility, acknowledged by Diodorus, of stating that something has moved in the past (S.E. 
 M  x.85-101).44
42 Cels.  Prooem.  40-4; Tert.  An.  10.4; Gal.  AA  ii 288K; [Gal.]  Def. Med.  xix 357K. 
43 Anon. Lond. xxi.18-23; Gal.  MM  ii 5, x 107K. Kudlien 1964 puts Herophilus with the sceptics, while  von  Staden  1989,  117-24  emphasizes  his  Aristotelian  background.  See  also  Tieleman 1996, 22-3, Hankinson 1990, 213-15. 
44 See above, pp. 356-60. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
m e d i c a l   d i s p u t e s   a n d   p h i l o s o p h i c a l   a r g u m e n t s 611
Even Erasistratus, a doctor inclined to allow for theoretically unobservable entities, had conducted a destructive campaign against the notion of cause.  The  superfluity  of  blood  which  poured  out  from  the  veins  and arteries was seen by him as the sole cause of diseases, on the basis of the assumption that something can have the status of a cause only if it unfailingly produces the same e◊ect.45 This argument also has parallels in philosophical contexts, as in the definition of cause given by the Stoic Zeno (Stob. i.138.14-22) and in S.E.  M  ix.237-48, but in the present case there is  no  need  to  assume  a  non-medical  origin.  It  is  indeed  possible  that Erasistratus developed the kind of argument which can be found in the Hippocratic treatise  On Ancient Medicine (xx.5-6), where it is stated that if cheese were harmful to human nature, it would a◊ect all men and not only some of them. 
The  Erasistratean  conception  of  causality  is  incompatible  with  the acceptance of antecedent or procatarctic causes, which do not always produce  illness.  The  Empiricists  accept  procatarctic  causes,  which  Celsus ( Prooem. 18 and 27) calls  evidentes, and considered them to be components of the syndrome as causes of this nature (Gal.  MM  x 244K;  Comp. Med. Loc. 
xii.527K).  The  appearance  of  these  in  the  syndrome  led  to  connecting them  with  the  notion  of  signs.  To  identify  an  illness,  according  to  the Empiricists, it was not enough to point out the salience of a single sign: the ailment is the collection or the coincidence of many symptoms, which present themselves as connected among themselves and occur in the same order in repeated observations. The name of an illness is only a label or a compendious expression invented for a syndrome in a teaching context (Gal.  MM  x 460K;  Loc. A◊. viii 14K;  Subf. Emp. 6, pp. 56.12-58.27). This does not mean that one should record everything that presents itself to observation, nor that one should choose by reason what it is appropriate to observe; only unintentional repeated observations permit the narrowing  down  of  details,  ascertaining  the  frequency  and  the  order  in  which they  occur,  and  the  distinction  between  signs  common  to  most  complaints and signs unique to this one (Gal.  Hipp. O◊. Med. xviiib 644K;  Opt. 
 Sect. i 135-6K). 
This distinction between common and specific signs is noted by Cicero ( Acad. ii.34) and one finds connections with that between indicative and commemorative signs in Sextus ( M  viii.20 0-2), in the sense that the indicative signs are signs of a single and identical thing, while the commemorative 45 Gal.  Ven. Sect. Er.  xi 153-4K;  Art. Sang.  iv 715K;  CP  1.9-10, 8.102-4 and 13.166-7; Cels.  Prooem. 
54.  On  the  problem  of  causality  in  philosophy  and  medicine  see  Barnes  1990c,  2614-17, 2649-89, as well as Hankinson 1987b and 1990; see also above, pp. 508-9. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
612
p h i l o s o p h y,   s c i e n c e   a n d   m e d i c i n e ones can belong to many di◊erent things and are therefore not real signs. 
But in the view of the Empiricists both common and specific signs came under  what  Sextus  called  commemorative  signs,  the  only  kind  of  sign which they recognized and for which [Gal.]  Def. Med. xix 396K preserves the definition they had given it. What remains controversial is the question of  the  origin  of  the  distinction  between  indicative  and  commemorative signs: is it medical or philosophical?46 One cannot rule out the idea that the two  notions  were  developed  independently  in  di◊erent  environments, and were only linked later. The reportage in Sextus ( M  viii.141-298;  PH
ii.97-133) connects them, but the references to Aenesidemus ( M  viii.215-16
and 234; cf. D.L. ix.96-7) show that he was attacking the sign in general. 
Nor are there definite traces of a discussion of the sign by the Empiricists in terms  of  propositions  and  conditionals,  as  is  the  case  in  Sextus'  treatment.47
In turning their attention to the notion of signs, the Empiricist physicians  did  not  necessarily  need  to  draw  on  the  heritage  of  philosophical arguments. In the texts cited by Diogenes Laertius and Sextus there are connections between signs and the domain of obscure things ( ade-la) and their relationship with the three dimensions of time. In both of these concerns the Empiricist doctors had behind them an established medical tradition,  aware  of  the  diagnostic  and  prognostic  function  of  signs,  as appears for example in the Hippocratic treatises  Prognostic  and  Epidemics  i. 
The  contrast  between  obvious  and  obscure  things,  i.e.  the  internal  and inaccessible parts of the body, is already found in  Ancient Medicine  and  On the Art. The latter work (11-12) shows signs to be the means thought out by medicine to allow for the knowledge of things not directly perceivable, and mentions procedures intended to stimulate artificial manifestations of symptoms by which to formulate inferences about the pathological situation.  An  Empiricist  physician  could  not  have  welcomed  this  programme, which points directly to the indicative sign. On the other hand, the  connection  of  signs  with  time  was  at  the  centre  of  attention  for Praxagoras, who had di◊erentiated between concomitant signs and those which  emerged  during  the  course  of  an  illness.48 According  to  the Empiricists  Rationalist  doctors  transformed  signs  into  causes  and  the 46 The attribution of this to the Dialecticians, in particular to the Megaric Philo, is maintained in Ebert 1991. See also Burnyeat 1982c, 212-14 and especially Glidden 1983a, also for a discussion of the preceding literature; see further Allen 1993 and Hankinson 1995, 225-36. 
47 For the opposite theory see Matthen 1988a, 109-13. 
48 Gal.  Hipp. Aph.  xviii A 56K and xviii B 390K, as well as Steckerl 1958, 27-9. See also the agreement  between  Herophilus  and  the  Empiricists  in  the  use  of  the  triple-timed  inference  from signs (τρι!χρονο σηµειω!σι) (Gal.  Plen.  8, vii 554-5K). 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
m e d i c a l   d i s p u t e s   a n d   p h i l o s o p h i c a l   a r g u m e n t s 613
temporal sequence into a logical connection, established not empirically but by the use of reason. They felt that one could not infer that what came before in time was the cause of what followed: in this sense the so-called procatarctic or antecedent signs were more properly signs, that is, events which one could see occurring repeatedly before other events. The connection between before and after in the sign relation was therefore properly  established  in  the  memory  only  as  a  recollection  of  repeated observations:  at  their  centre  was  a  conjunction  of  events  in  accordance with temporal co-ordinates, not with logical connections in the form of a conditional. It was memory which allowed the accumulation of observations of oneself and of other people, and the possibility of recalling them as a guide for treatment (Gal.  Subf. Emp. 6, p. 58.11-21): memory could perform functions like the formulation of empirical generalizations, recognition  in  what  was  observed  of  something  which  had  been  observed before, diagnosis and prognosis through signs, which the Rationalists had attributed to reason. In this way the theory of the Empiricist physicians, even if it shows parallels with concepts and doctrines found in Aristotle or Epicurus, followed its own path.49
49 On this point Frede 1990 is important. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
p a r t   v
E T H I C S  A N D  P O L I T I C S
*
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
19







The Socratic legacy
a .   a .   l o n g
i Introduction
From  the  perspective  of  10 0  bc the  history  of  ethics  in  the  Hellenistic period  is  dominated  by  Stoicism  and  Epicureanism.  The  sceptical Academy had also made a significant contribution by criticizing the Stoics and by classifying alternative theories of the  summum bonum,1 but in the Peripatos social philosophy, though it remained alive, was scarcely vigorous. When Epicurus and Zeno first established their schools at Athens, these  developments  could  not  have  been  foreseen.  At  that  time the Academy was still the centre of doctrinal Platonism, and Theophrastus at the Peripatos included ethics among the numerous subjects on which he wrote  and  lectured.  Many  other  philosophers  were  also  stimulating reflection  on  the  foundations  of  happiness  and  attracting  followers  -
Cynics,  Cyrenaics,  Menedemus,  Stilpo,  Pyrrho.  Ethics  was  a  hotly debated subject around the year 30 0 bc. 
That fact helps to explain why Epicurus and Zeno were rapidly able to acquire an audience. Yet there was no reason to predict that the schools they founded would soon become the main ethical options. Why did those schools achieve such a dominating position? With hindsight it can be seen that they o◊ered an informed choice between two radically di◊erent ways for persons to orient themselves. Antithetical though they are in cosmology, theology, attitude to politics and evaluation of virtue relative to pleasure,  Stoicism  and  Epicureanism  closely  resemble  one  another  in  being comprehensive philosophies of life. Both their mutual exclusiveness and their  comprehensiveness  are  factors  that  help  to  explain  the  remarkable success both philosophies achieved.2 These, of course, are also retrospective  judgements.  There  is  no  evidence  either  that  Zeno  was  primarily inspired by opposition to Epicurus or that Epicurus gave serious attention 1 For  Academic  criticism  of  Stoic  ethics,  cf.  Long  and  Sedley  1987,  ch.  64,  which  includes Carneades' classification of alternative ethical theories (Cic.  Fin. v.16-20), and ch. 69. 
2 For detailed treatment of these two factors, see Long 1993a, 138-42, 154-6. 
[617]
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
618
t h e   s o c r a t i c   l e g a c y
to  his  younger  rival.  For  understanding  where  both  philosophers  start from, we need to review the limits of agreement and disagreement to be found in philosophical ethics as it already existed. That kind of survey is essential in order to approach such questions as the novelty or special character  of  Hellenistic  ethics,  its  relation  to  the  impulses  inaugurated  by Socrates  and  his  followers,  and  the  proposal,  which  is  often  made,  that Stoicism and Epicureanism were peculiarly suitable for persons living in the Hellenistic world. 
ii The Socratic presence in Greek ethics
The concept of a Socratic tradition in ethics goes back to the Hellenistic historians  of  philosophy  (cf.  D.L.  i.13-20).  It  derives  from  their  practice of  identifying  'founders'  of  intellectual  movements,  and  of  tracing lines  of  'succession'  from  the  founder  to  the  latest  representative  of  a
'school'. From an historical point of view this procedure is much too contrived  and  uniform.  However,  the  'succession'  writers,  if  only  accidentally, identified the fact that Plato and other followers of Socrates were primarily  responsible  for  establishing  most  of  the  ethical  concepts  and issues  which  were  familiar  to  and  explored  by  thinkers  as  distant  from Socrates  in  time  as  Zeno,  Epicurus,  and  the  second  generation  of Peripatetics  headed  by  Theophrastus.  The  concepts  include  happiness ( eudaimonia) as the ultimate objective of all action ( telos),3 the identification of this objective with the acquisition of good(s), and the relation of both  of  these  primary  concepts  to  the  following  -  excellence  or  virtue ( arete-), rationality, desire or volition, emotion, pleasure, justice, friendship, and the distinction between soul ( psuche-) and body. Socrates' name could also be associated with such issues as the inter-relation of the virtues (especially wisdom, courage, justice and moderation), the relation of the virtues to knowledge, the supreme importance of wisdom or  phrone-sis, the value of pleasure relative to virtue, the criteria for utility, the distinction between intrinsic and instrumental goods, the relation of happiness and virtue to social and familial obligations. These concepts and issues are as central and vital to Hellenistic ethics as they had been in their original Socratic contexts. 
The strongest and most di◊used element in this Socratic tradition is the notion that it is the task of philosophy to establish rational foundations 3 Although Plato's Socrates does not emphasize the concept of  telos  in Aristotle's manner, it is first adumbrated in the Platonic corpus; cf.  Grg. 499e,  Symp. 205a-d. For  telos  in the evidence for Cyrenaic ethics, cf. D.L. ii.87-8, 97-8. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   s o c r a t i c   p r e s e n c e   i n   g r e e k   e t h i c s 619
for an individual's happiness.4 On this point nearly all philosophers were agreed,  however  much  they  di◊ered  in  their  doctrines  concerning  the content of happiness and the scope of philosophy itself. On the broadest construal of philosophy, by Aristotle and Theophrastus, scientific study for  its  own  sake  is  an  essential  element  of  happiness.  The  Cynics,  by extreme contrast, restrict philosophy to a practice for training persons so as  to  reduce  their  needs  and  desires  to  a  minimal  'natural'  level.  In Stoicism and Epicureanism philosophy includes more than ethics, but the o√cial justification for other studies is their utility for the conduct of life (cf.  Epicurus   Ep.  Men.  122,  KD  11-12;  and  for  Stoicism,  SVF  ii 35  and Cicero  O◊. i.13-19). 
This Socratic tradition is su√ciently unitary to facilitate dialogue and comparison between the alternative ethical theories. However, the formal unity of the conceptual framework coincides with enormous di◊erences -
not only, as has been noted, over the scope of philosophy but also over its style of presentation, social role, organization, and urgency or radicalism as an art of life. For understanding the Socratic legacy to Hellenistic ethics, we need to distinguish between Socrates' generic influence, as transmitted by his followers, and ethical theories which are modelled directly on interpretations of the life and persona of Socrates. It is the second of these which will particularly concern us in this chapter. How it adds to and di◊ers from the first kind of influence can best be clarified by reference to Aristotle. 
From our modern perspective, it is Aristotle who did the most to formalize ethics along the lines first charted by Socrates, or rather, Plato's Socrates.  Yet,  as  a  moral  philosopher  Aristotle  was  far  more  directly indebted to Plato than to anything he himself admitted to be Socratic. On the  few  occasions  when  Aristotle  discusses  a  thesis  he  attributes  to Socrates, it is largely to criticize.5 He scarcely hints at the moral significance of Socrates' life, or his paradigmatic role. As for Aristotle's successors, some of them were notorious for spreading scandalous stories about Socrates' personal conduct. We can probably conclude from this that the Peripatos,  at  the  time  of  Zeno  and  Epicurus,  wished  to  distance  itself from any o√cial a√liation to Socrates. In what survives of Theophrastus'
ethics, there is almost complete silence about him. 
Many explanations for the calumny and the silence suggest themselves. 
Cynics,  and  possibly  Cyrenaics  too,  were  publicizing  Socrates'  reputed 4 On Socratic eudaimonism, cf. Vlastos 1991, 20 0-32. For discussion of it as the common property of Plato, Aristotle, Epicurus and the Stoics, cf. Long 1988a, 79-83. 
5 This point and those that immediately follow are more fully developed in Long 1988b, 154-5. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
620
t h e   s o c r a t i c   l e g a c y
aversion  to  scientific  speculation.  That  could  not  have  gone  down  well with the Peripatetics. Another factor to reckon with is rivalry between the Peripatetics  and  those  philosophers  who  wanted  to  be  perceived  as Socrates'  heirs.  Still  more  important,  probably,  is  the  general  tenor  of Peripatetic ethics. Although Aristotle's ethical treatises are a marvellous analytical achievement and in some respects far from conventional, they take much of their material from the values and practices that were common  currency  among  the  elite  of  Athenian  society.  Aristotle  also  had  a much more hard-headed view of what ethics can do to assure a person's happiness than is typically to be found in the theories that preceded and followed  him.  Such  realism  is  still  more  evident  in  the  fragmentary remains of the ethics of Theophrastus. In addition to making happiness vulnerable to misfortune, he acknowledged that chance could warp character and that virtue could be lost.6
Whether or not Epicurus and the earliest Stoics had immediate access to Peripatetic literature on ethics, we can assume that they had a general familiarity  with  such  points  as  have  just  been  outlined.7 Those  points facilitate a contrast, not only with Stoicism and Epicureanism, but also with some of the other ethical options available at the time when Epicurus and  Zeno  began  to  teach.  These  include  the  Cynics,  Cyrenaics  and Pyrrho. The first of these movements had a decisive influence on Stoicism; the second, probably more negatively than positively, on Epicurus, who also  confessed  to  admiration  for  Pyrrho's  lifestyle  (D.L.  ix.64).  Even though some Epicureans (but not perhaps Epicurus himself ) were critical of Socrates, he was a precursor of Epicurus in his devoted band of followers and the paradigm he a◊orded of someone perfected in his own practices.8 The  Hellenistic  philosophers  trade  heavily  on  the  concept  of  a
'wise man', which had already been foreshadowed by the hagiography of Socrates.9 Equally Socratic and non-Aristotelian is their depreciation of conventional values such as wealth or public renown, and their specification of happiness in terms of freedom, tranquillity and autonomy. These common factors are the final promise of philosophies which arrive at their shared  agenda  by  di◊erent  routes  and  involve  di◊erent  assessments  of 6 Cf. F 495-9, 462-3, 465 in Fortenbaugh 1992b. 
7 See Long 1968; cf. Irwin 1986. But Sandbach 1985 argues against influence on Stoic ethics from Aristotle's treatises. I argue a similar thesis against influence from Theophrastus in Long 1997. 
8 For  Epicurean  hostility  to  Socrates,  see  Kleve  1983.  In  Long  1988b,  156,  I  suggest  that Epicurean attacks on Socrates may 'be seen, at least in part, as a means of undercutting the most obvious  alternative  (i.e.  non-Epicurean)  models  of  the  philosophical  life  -  Socrates  as  interpreted by Stoics and Academics'. 
9 For evidence on the  sophos (early Pyrrhonism, Epicureanism, Stoicism, Academic scepticism), cf. the references cited in Long and Sedley 1987, vol. i, 512 s.v. 'wise man'. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   s o c r a t i c   p r e s e n c e   i n   g r e e k   e t h i c s 621
particular values. However, it clearly makes sense to distinguish them all from the more conservative ethics of Aristotle and Theophrastus. 
The 'wise man' has a history in Greece that predates philosophy. In its Hellenistic usages, adumbrated already by the Cynics and Cyrenaics (cf. 
D.L. ii.93-9, vi.72), the 'wise man' becomes a technical term for the paradigm of ethical understanding  and  every other positive attribute of a specific  philosophy.  It  is  this  second  condition  which  distinguishes  the Socratic and Hellenistic philosophers' 'wise man' from the  phronimos  to whom Aristotle in his ethics frequently appeals as the standard of rationality.  Unlike  Aristotle,  those  philosophers  most  directly  influenced  by Socrates were radical in their approach to convention - hence such distinctive figures as Diogenes, Aristippus, and also the utopianism of Plato himself. The once fashionable treatment of Hellenistic ethics as a panacea for contemporary unhappiness failed to indicate that it is Aristotelian ethics  which  looks  anomalous  from  a  third  century  bc perspective  on  the Greek philosophical tradition. Aristotle's respect for many of the things traditionally valued in Greek social and political life made his ethics ill-suited to the more cosmopolitan realities of the Hellenistic world. But it would  probably  be  a  mistake  to  suppose  that  Zeno  and  Epicurus  had highly original insights into these cultural data, which they made central to  their  ethics.  The  truth  seems  to  be  rather  that  the  ethical  theories which  most  shaped  their  thinking  -  those  deriving  from  philosophers who had associated with Socrates (and from Democritus too, in the case of Epicurus) - were already less dependent on gender, class and ethnic identity than an outlook such as Aristotle's.10
Our  Socrates  is  predominantly  Plato's,  but  for  persons  of  the  age  of Zeno and Epicurus Plato was only one of Socrates' renowned associates. 
The others include Antisthenes, Aristippus and Xenophon. Antisthenes and  Aristippus  are  shadowy  figures,  but  important  for  their  formative influence on Cynicism and Cyrenaicism respectively. Xenophon, though less  of  a  philosopher  than  either,  was  widely  read  for  his  record  and defence of Socrates. Indeed, the biographical tradition on the Stoic Zeno refers to Xenophon's  Memorabilia  of Socrates as his introduction to philosophy  (D.L. vii.2-3; cf.  vii.31-2). That anecdote may well be apocry-phal, but it rings true to the central role some Stoics accorded to Socrates as an authority in ethics. 
To his immediate circle Socrates had been a paradigm of the excellence 10 For a√nities between Democritus and Socratic ethics, cf. Kahn 1985, esp. 6-10, 26-9. For the common ground between Plato's and Xenophon's Socrates, cf. Morrison 1987. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
622
t h e   s o c r a t i c   l e g a c y
he investigated. The strangeness of his life and the tragedy of his death were  challenges  to  inquiry.  No  less  provoking  were  divergences  in  the interpretation of his role and attitudes by those who had known him. Was Socrates a hedonist, or an enemy of pleasure? Did he intend his profession of  ignorance  to  be  taken  seriously?  Where  did  he  stand  on  political involvement? On such questions the Socratic literature gave ambiguous responses.  Yet  it  was  unanimous  in  regarding  Socrates  as  the  model  of how a philosopher should conduct himself. 
In  the  various  representations  of  Socrates  by  those  associates  who wrote  about  him  common  features  are  not  hard  to  find.  What  Plato emphasizes, and what most forcefully impressed Xenophon, Antisthenes or even Aristippus, is Socrates' advocacy and practice of 'caring for' oneself,  for  one's  autonomy  and  rational  integrity.  (Although  Aristippus'
hedonism may seem antithetical to Socrates' moral concerns, it is quite compatible with a commitment to rational integrity and autonomy.) This
'technology  of  the  self ',  as  Michel  Foucault  has  well  described  it,  was Socrates' great challenge to popular morality.11 There justice had largely been seen as obedience to divine or human rules. Prosperity or happiness ( eudaimonia) was vaguely believed to depend upon the gods' approval of such obedience, but because happiness primarily signified good fortune its connection with justice was a piece of piety scarcely justified by experience. What probably struck Socrates' followers as most remarkable about him was his radically internalist conception of happiness, what Plato calls
'the  health  of  the  soul',  and  its  detachment  from  conventional  ideas  of good fortune. Both Plato and Xenophon stress Socrates' mastery over the appetites  that  trouble  ordinary  people,  and  which  typically  motivate unethical conduct. If that characterization strikes us today as banal, we should reflect that Greek literature prior to Socrates o◊ers nothing comparable. That no doubt explains why Xenophon says:
Socrates  was  the  most  self-controlled  of  all  men  over  sex  and  bodily appetite,  the  most  resilient  in  relation  to  winter  and  summer  and  all exertions,  and  so  trained  for  needing  moderate  amounts  that  he  was satisfied when he had only little. ( Mem. ii.1.1)
A Socrates of this kind is presupposed,  mutatis mutandis, by Antisthenes and the Cynics on the one hand, and the Aristippean/Cyrenaic school on the other. What distinguishes these interpretations from one another is their  over-emphasizing  certain  Socratic  traits  at  the  expense  of  others. 
11 Cf. Foucault 1988. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
a n t i s t h e n e s   a n d   d i o g e n e s   -   c y n i c   e t h i c s 623
What the interpretations agree on, as they also agree with Xenophon and Plato, is that a Socratic lifestyle is one in which a person is maximally self-su√cient, in control of his or her own life, and uses reason as the instrument of satisfying the conditions for happiness.12 The essential point is captured by the following anecdote concerning the Megarian philosopher Stilpo. He had lost his property in an Athenian attack on his homeland. 
When  the  general  Demetrius  o◊ered  to  restore  it  to  him,  Stilpo responded:  'I  have  lost  nothing  that  belonged  to  me  since  no  one  has removed  my  education,  and  I  still  have  my  reason  and  understanding'
(D.L. ii.115). 
iii Antisthenes and Diogenes - Cynic ethics
Of all the routes by which Socrates' philosophy was transmitted to the Hellenistic world, that followed by the Cynics was the most startling and, in some respects, the most influential.13 Crates is described as 'a man like the Socrates of Xenophon's  Memorabilia' (D.L. vii.2-3). This observation occurs in the biography of Zeno. The Stoics can be assumed to have readily  propagated  such  stories,  determined  as  they  were  to  connect  their founder with Socrates.14 Hence they publicized the philosophical succession: Socrates, Antisthenes, Diogenes, Crates, Zeno. In the Stoic canon of quasi-sages Socrates and Diogenes form an ubiquitous duo (cf. e.g. Epict. 
 Diss. ii.13.24, ii.16.35). 
In contrast with the Stoics, Epicurus specifically denied that the wise man  would  'practise  Cynicism'  (D.L.  x.119).  Yet  the  principles  an Epicurean  should  adopt  concerning  satisfaction  of  desires,  attitudes  to society, self-su√ciency and freedom have much in common with Cynic precepts.  This  a√nity  is  most  clearly  seen  in  the  satirical  tone  of Epicurean maxims, many of which call attention to the 'vanity' of conventional human motivations (cf. Epicurus  KD  15, 21, 29, 30;  Sent. Vat.  21, 25, 33, 46, 65). Cynic tendencies are still more evident in our accounts of the philosophies  of  two  of  Epicurus'  rivals,  the  Cyrenaics  Theodorus  and Hegesias (D.L. ii.94, 99). There are also pronounced Cynic elements in 12 For an elaboration of this point, see Long 1993a, 140-6. 
13 Book vi of Diogenes Laertius'  Lives  is devoted to the Cynics. An extensive collection of testimonia is available in  SSR  v. For Antisthenes see also Decleva Caizzi 1966. 
14 See Long 1988b, 150-71, esp. 151-4, 161-2. Some later Stoics, especially the Pergamene librarian Athenodorus, tried to play down the Cynic influences on early Stoicism, to avoid contaminating the founders of the Stoa with Cynic 'shamelessness'. These contrasting attitudes to the Cynics have left their mark on Diogenes' life of Zeno: cf. Mansfeld 1986, 347-51 and Hahm 1992, 4088-105. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
624
t h e   s o c r a t i c   l e g a c y
Timon's  Pyrrhonian  critique  of  the  philosophical  tradition.15 Whether their o√cial acknowledgement of the Cynics was positive or negative, the new Hellenistic schools recognized that Cynicism was an ethical movement which anticipated and adumbrated some of their own leading concerns. 
An informed appreciation of this point is rendered di√cult for many reasons. First, our reliable evidence for the earliest Cynics is sparse and di√cult to evaluate. Secondly, it would be false to the nature of the Cynic movement to abstract a  purely  theoretical set of notions from the Cynics'
deliberately bizarre styles of behaviour and literary expression. Thirdly, Cynic principles of action, to the extent that they can be formally stated, are likely to appear jejune when considered alongside the more sophisticated ethics of Stoics and Epicureans. In view of such di√culties one may be tempted to agree with Hegel that: 'There is nothing particular to say of the Cynics, for they possess but little philosophy, and they did not bring what they had into a scientific system.'16
The temptation should be resisted. Cynicism was built on systematic philosophical foundations, which may be articulated as follows: 1 Happiness is living in agreement with nature. 
2 Happiness is something available to any person willing to engage in su√cient physical and mental training. 
3 The essence of happiness is self-mastery, which manifests itself in the ability to live happily under even highly adverse circumstances. 
4 Self-mastery is equivalent to, or entails, a virtuous character. 
5 The happy person, as so conceived, is the only person who is truly wise, kingly and free. 
6 Things conventionally deemed necessary for happiness such as wealth, fame and political power have no value in nature. 
7 Prime impediments to happiness are false judgements of value together with the emotional disturbances and weakness of character which arise from these false judgements. 
Collectively,  these  propositions  constitute  the  account  of  eudaimonism which had paramount appeal in Hellenistic philosophy. An Epicurean or a Pyrrhonian sceptic, unlike a Stoic, would not accept all of them. But there was no disagreement on the connections drawn between happiness and 15 Timon's Cynic leanings have been explored in detail: cf. Long 1978a, and Brancacci 1981. 
16  Lectures on the History of Philosophy  i.479 (Haldane-Simson translation). 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
a n t i s t h e n e s   a n d   d i o g e n e s   -   c y n i c   e t h i c s 625
self-mastery,  training,  rejection  of  mere  convention  as  a  foundation  for values, and virtuous character. Hellenistic philosophers shared a general interest in completely internalizing happiness; their project was to make happiness  depend  essentially  on  the  agent's  character  and  beliefs,  and thus to minimize or discount its dependence on external contingencies. 
The  Epicurean,  as  well  as  the  Stoic  wise  man,  is  happy  on  the  rack  -  a thought known independently to Aristotle, who found it outrageous ( EN
vii.14.1153b19). 
Antisthenes, presented in the doxographical tradition as founder of the Cynic movement, may never have met Diogenes of Sinope (active in the mid-fourth  century  bc),  who  was  the  first  authentic  Cynic.17 Even  so, Antisthenes'  writings  and  his  interpretation  of  Socrates  were  probably the most potent influences on Diogenes' philosophical development. In a passage from Xenophon's  Symposium (4.34-44) Antisthenes defends the claim that, though penniless, he prides himself on his wealth. He observes people who are conventionally wealthy yet pathologically unsatisfied by their possessions. As for himself, he has su√cient to satisfy all his basic bodily needs and, not being choosy, he can always find a willing woman if he wants sex. For enjoyment, instead of buying luxuries he draws on his soul's resources. Anticipating Epicurus, he says that it is more pleasurable to satisfy the appetite when genuinely hungry or thirsty than when not in need. Such frugality promotes honesty and contentment. 
This  passage  fits  well  with  two  theses  elsewhere  attributed  to Antisthenes: 'Virtue pertains to actions and does not need copious theories ( logoi) or lessons'; and 'Virtue is su√cient for happiness, since happiness  needs  nothing  else  except  Socratic  strength'  (D.L.  vi.11).  The anecdotal  material  concerning  Diogenes  is  evidence  for  his  consistent attempt to play the role of 'Socrates gone mad' (as Plato is reputed to have called  him,  D.L.  vi.54)  and  to  make  himself  into  a  public  exhibition  of Antisthenes'  recommended  self-su√ciency.  Characteristic  examples  are his masturbating in public, living in a wine-jar, sleeping rough, walking on snow barefoot, trying to eat raw meat.18 However, most of the anecdotes are concerned not with what Diogenes did but with what he said. 
17 Diogenes Laertius credits Antisthenes with basically the same Stoicizing ethical doctrines as the Cynics (cf. vi.10-13 with vi.103-5). There must be some oversimplification here, probably at Antisthenes' expense. What is clear is that the early Stoics found Antisthenes and Diogenes su√ciently close to their own ethical viewpoint to welcome them as links for connecting themselves with Socrates. 
18 Mansfeld  1988b,  163,  suggests  that  Diogenes'  exhibitionism  undercuts  his  professed  independence  and  calls  into  question  his  moral  seriousness.  But  the  sober  Chrysippus  cited Diogenes' conduct with approval (Plu.  Stoic. Rep. 1044b). 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
626
t h e   s o c r a t i c   l e g a c y
His philosophical significance rests on his e◊orts to 'deface the currency', as the Cynic slogan puts it. 
Asked where one might see good men in Greece, he said: 'Men nowhere, but boys in Sparta' (D.L. vi.27). When captured and put up for sale, he was asked what he knew how to do, and answered, 'rule over men', and he told the herald to announce, 'Does anyone want to buy a master for himself ?'  (D.L.  vi.29).  Seeing  temple  o√cials  arresting  someone  who had stolen a bowl belonging to the treasurers, he said: 'The big thieves are  arresting  the  little  thief '  (D.L.  vi.45).  Asked  which  beast  has  the worst bite, he said: 'Of wild ones, the sycophant, and of tame ones the flatterer' (D.L. vi.51). 
Such  aphorisms  as  these  have  at  least  three  things  in  common  -  black humour, paradox and ethical seriousness. They accept the ordinary connotations of words, and insist that their conventional denotations are misap-plied or need to be inverted. A genuine man must be hardier and better trained than a Spartan warrior; a real master must be someone with total command  over  himself  and  the  moral  authority  to  tell  others  how  to behave; theft is committed by state o√cials no less than common criminals. These sentiments are a powerful challenge to unreflective views on the relation between language and ethical judgement. Diogenes sought to deface the currency of convention ( nomos) and to substitute for it values grounded  in  a  'rational'  understanding  of  'nature'  ( phusis).  The  conventions he wanted to dislodge by his discourse and behaviour were ones he regarded as irrational prejudice and as inimical to the satisfaction of natural needs. He accepted the nickname 'dog' ( kuo-n) as a symbol of his 'shamelessness' ( anaideia).  Aido-s, the opposite quality, was hallowed in tradition as a necessary condition of civilized life. As such, it served as a sanction both against anti-social conduct in the strong ethical sense, and also as the grounds of 'decency' in daily life. In the latter sense,  aido-s  covered manners rather than morals - the socially acceptable behaviour of men and women in matters of dress, styles of eating, conversing, sex and so forth. 
As publicized by Diogenes, Cynic 'shamelessness' is contemptuous of aido-s  largely  in  this  second  sense.  The  anecdotes  and  aphorisms  of Diogenes include caustic criticism of thieves and profligates. He is said to have reproached various people for behaving unethically with the words, 
'Are you not ashamed . . .?' (D.L. vi.65). The positive counterpart of Cynic
'shamelessness'  is  summed  up  in  the  catch-word   parrhe-sia,  'frankness'. 
Having reduced all valid norms to those dictated by nature, the Cynic is liberated  from  bourgeois  inhibitions  and  social  practices.  These  are merely conventional, as is shown by the great variety of di◊erent people's Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
a n t i s t h e n e s   a n d   d i o g e n e s   -   c y n i c   e t h i c s 627
customs (D.L. vi.73). Equipped with a rough cloak, a wallet and a stick (the beggar's standard accoutrements), the Cynic adopts a lifestyle which symbolizes his independence from the values that enslave most people. 
Triumphing, as he claimed to do, over all adversities (as conventionally conceived, D.L. vi.38), Diogenes compared himself with Heracles, slayer of monsters (D.L. vi.71).19 Because he alone has command over himself, the Cynic is the only genuine ruler.20 The di◊usion of this hyperbolical language is evident from the Stoics' practice of restricting such terms as
'king' and 'free' to their wise man.21
Though simple and minimalist in its needs, the Cynic life demands constant  training  and  exertion.  This  requirement  o◊ers  perhaps  the  most promising explanation of the connections Diogenes seems to have intuited between nature, happiness, virtue, rationality, self-mastery and internal and external freedom. Discussion of this point depends largely on the following passage from the biography by Diogenes Laertius. 
He [sc. Diogenes] used to say that training is of two kinds, mental and bodily. The latter refers to the acquisition in continuous exercise of mental impressions [ phantasiai], which provide easy access to virtuous deeds. 
The  one  kind  of  training  is  incomplete  without  the  other,  since  good condition  and  strength  are  no  less  included  in  the  appropriate  things that concern the mind as in those that concern the body. He used to provide evidence of the fact that from exercise virtue is easily acquired. Thus in the case of manual and other crafts we observe craftsmen achieving extraordinary dexterity by practice; similarly we observe the extent to which flautists and athletes excel in their respective fields by continuous exertion.  We  realize  that  if  they  had  transferred  their  training  to  the mind  as  well,  they  would  not  have  toiled  unprofitably  and  unproductively. He used to say that nothing at all in life can succeed without training,  and  that  training  can  prevail  over  anything.  Therefore  instead  of useless toils people should choose ones that are natural and thus live happily, whereas in fact they are unhappy as a result of folly. In fact the actual despising  of  pleasure  is  thoroughly  pleasurable  when  it  has  become habitual. Just as those accustomed to live pleasurably find it disagreeable to pass to the opposite, so those whose training has been the converse derive more pleasure from despising actual pleasures. (D.L. vi.70-1) 19 For Antisthenes' and Cynic sanctification of Heracles, see Hoeistad 1948, 22-73. 
20 For this tradition and its background, see Hoeistad 1948, passim; for the Stoics, cf. e.g. D.L. 
vii.122. Even if the encounters between Diogenes and Alexander the Great are spurious, they became the favourite Cynic illustration of the superiority of ethical to political kingship. 
21 Cynics and Stoics could invoke the precedent of Socrates: cf. Xen.  Mem. i.1.16, where Socrates authorizes 'slavish' as the characteristic of people who are ignorant of morality, and Plato  Grg. 
521d, where Socrates claims to be perhaps the only Athenian expert in politics. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
628
t h e   s o c r a t i c   l e g a c y
Although some of the language and thought of this passage are probably anachronistic,  so  far  as  Diogenes  himself  is  concerned,  its  main  tenor coheres with the anecdotal evidence and with what seems plausible in a philosopher whose principal antecedents were Socratic.22 (It is Socrates who pioneered the usage of craft analogies in moral philosophy.) The passage also tallies well with the kind of education Diogenes is said to have given the sons of Xeniades (D.L. vi.30-1): su√cient physical training to promote 'a good condition' as distinct from athletic bodies, memorizing literature,  the  habit  of  looking  after  themselves  without  servants,  contentment with a minimal diet, plain and simple dress. 
If  Diogenes  is  now  beginning  to  sound  too  much  like  Rugby's  Dr Arnold,  a  quick  reminder  of  his  public  masturbation  and  eating  of  raw flesh will rapidly dispel the impression. But underlying his radical exhibitionism is a unitary philosophy, unsystematic in formulation though this doubtless  was.  That  body  and  soul  are  mutually  related  and  a◊ect  each other's good or bad condition is a thought which has ample Socratic back-ing. Yet the emphasis on bodily hardiness is distinctively Cynic. It obviously fits the notion that one will be happier the less dependent one is on external circumstances, but apparently more is involved: a good physical condition helps to promote a steady flow of 'mental impressions which provide easy access to virtuous deeds'. What could this mean? 
If Diogenes had a theory (as distinct from an unarticulated concept) of virtue, that is not revealed in our record. Yet the Stoics would not have endorsed much of Cynicism if the Cynic life in accordance with nature was seriously at odds with their own ethics. Indeed the Stoic Apollodorus (second  century  bc)  recommended  Cynicism  as  'a  short  cut  to  virtue'
(D.L.  vii.121),  that  is,  virtue  as  the  Stoics  themselves  understood  it. 
Perhaps this memorable expression can help. Cynicism presumably gets you to virtue quickly because, if you can actually live the Cynic life - if you can master your passions, restrict your needs and interests solely to what your rational nature requires, treat no contingencies as capable of disturbing your strength of mind - you have acquired or come close to acquiring a virtuous character, as the Stoics conceived of this. And you have done so without spending years of study in logic, physics and ethics. 
More  problematic,  it  may  seem,  is  the  relation  supposed  to  obtain between  'training'  and  living  in  accordance  with  nature.  Training involves deliberate practice, the shaping of what may (or may not) be 'nat-22 Goulet-Cazé 1986, 210-13 argues that the passage is  heavily  contaminated with Stoicism. The contrary position of Dudley 1937, 216-20, and Hoeistad 1948, 38-47, is more convincing. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
c r a t e s   a n d   t h e   t r a n s m i s s i o n   o f   c y n i c i s m 629
urally'  given.  Probably  the  best  rejoinder  available  to  Diogenes  would invoke animal behaviour, which became a favourite Cynic device for illustrating the superiority of the natural to the conventional. The notion that humans have something to learn from animals does not imply, as has been supposed,  that  Diogenes  wished  to  reduce  human  nature  to  that  of beasts.23 Against this interpretation, it is su√cient to invoke his maxim, 
'reason or a hangman's rope' (D.L. vi.24). Diogenes' ethical theory and practice only make sense on the assumption that human nature is rational, and that reason can and should be deployed to remove the impediments of irrational convention. At the same time, he evidently insisted that human beings   are  animals,  and  as  such  share  many  properties  with  beasts. 
Civilized and conventional humanity, he probably reasoned, has lost sight of this fact. Animals, living in their natural way, fend e◊ectively for their needs  and  have  no  needs  that  they  cannot  fulfil.  They  are  trained  by nature,  as  it  were.  But  human  nature,  which  is  essentially  rational, requires deliberate training in order to attain the self-su√ciency that is the appropriate condition of every animal. 
Diogenes  has  sometimes  been  characterized  as  a  cultural  primitivist, who advocated renunciation of all social life and 'roaming about in solitude'.  That  designation  fits  neither  the  evidence  for  his  career  nor  the influence of Cynicism on Hellenistic thought. Diogenes appears to have been  a  well  educated  man  who  enjoyed  argument  with  other  philosophers, and earned the respect of many citizens. His way-out lifestyle had a philosophical  purpose,  as  his  contemporaries  seem  to  have  realized.  In addition, he is credited with the composition of a large number of writings (D.L. vi.80). Some of these were almost certainly genuine, especially his  Republic, a work cited by several Stoic philosophers.24 His agenda was not the abandonment of all forms of social organization but a radical critique of the conventions of the Greek  polis. 
iv Crates and the literary transmission of
Cynicism
Diogenes probably had no pupils in the sense of persons he trained to be his  o√cial  followers.  But  whether  through  personal  contact,  hearsay  or writing, he succeeded in establishing his own lifestyle as an ethical practice 23 This seems to be the view of Niehues Pröbsting 1979, 77, 139. 
24 The key text concerning the authenticity of Diogenes'  Republic  is Philodemus  De Stoicis  cols. 
15-20 (⫽  SSR  v b 126). For discussion see Mansfeld 1986, 348-51, Schofield 1991, 9-10; cf. also, on Diogenes' literary activity, Goulet-Cazé 1986, 85-90. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
630
t h e   s o c r a t i c   l e g a c y
which others could imitate. Those who did so, like Crates of Thebes, were consequently called Cynics. In the last years of the fourth century bc the influence of Cynicism, or at least of its ethical principles, was much more widely di◊used than would be apparent from a tally of those who bore this description.  Because  Cynicism  was  not  a  formal  school  with  a  codified body of doctrine some of its characteristic precepts and attitudes could be readily appropriated by philosophers of other persuasions.25
However Crates came to know of Cynicism, his life and surviving writings  are  entirely  consonant  with  Diogenes'  ethical  principles  as  reconstructed above.26 The chief di◊erence between Crates and Diogenes lies in their external circumstances. Diogenes may well have su◊ered exile and slavery; he vaunted his indi◊erence to his misfortunes (D.L. vi.38), which no doubt contributed to his appeal. Crates was a citizen of Thebes and a wealthy landowner. We are entitled to doubt the nice story that he turned to  philosophy  after  seeing  the  beggar  king  Telephus  in  a  tragedy  (D.L. 
vi.87), but the story probably has its basis in a remarkable fact: Crates sold his lands and gave away the proceeds to his fellow-citizens. 
If Crates' renunciation of wealth was a deliberate assumption of Cynic poverty, his practice in regard to sex was no less radical. The second thing for which he is renowned was his relationship with his wife Hipparchia. 
In the face of all Greek convention, but in line with the views of Diogenes (D.L.  vi.72),  the  relationship  of  Crates  and  Hipparchia  was  apparently based on nothing except mutual consent (D.L. vi.96). Flouting parental approval  and  the  normal  criteria  of  wealth  and  status,  Hipparchia  is said to  have  fallen  in  love  with  Crates  and  his  life  and  discourses. 
Scandalmongers  gave  prurient  accounts  of  public  sexual  intercourse between the pair. More interesting, and probably closer to truth, is the tradition that Hipparchia was a liberated woman who shared Crates' philosophical  interests  and  did  not  di◊er  in  her  public  behaviour  from  her husband. On the conventional view of a Greek woman's proper place, that will  have  counted  as  a  shocking  example  of  sexual  exhibitionism. 
Criticism  of  convention  in  regard  to  wealth  and  sex  had  been  among Diogenes' prime objectives. The Stoic Zeno's respect for Crates and the
'memoirs of Crates' (D.L. vii.4) that he wrote are reason enough to believe that Crates consistently acted upon his Cynic principles.27
25 Two  philosophers  who  manifest  this  di◊used  influence  are  the  Megarian  Stilpo,  linked  to Crates in the testimonia (cf. Döring 1972, 46-55), and Menedemus of Eretria, said to have once been called 'dog' by his fellow countrymen (D.L. ii.140). 
26 Diogenes Laertius gives his account of Crates at vi.85-98; further testimonia in  SSR  v h. 
27 The Cynic imprint on early Stoic literary activity is very strong: books of  chreiai  or anecdotes are attributed to Aristo (D.L. vii.163), Persaeus (D.L. vii.36) and Cleanthes (D.L. vii.175). Other Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
c r a t e s   a n d   t h e   t r a n s m i s s i o n   o f   c y n i c i s m 631
Crates' life should be regarded as a contribution to Hellenistic ethics, just  like  the  lives  of  Socrates  and  Diogenes.  He  also  publicized  his Cynicism  by  writing  satirical  verse.  The  surviving  lines  in  a  variety  of metres include parody of archaic poetry. This device can be interpreted as one of Crates' contributions to 'defacing the currency', and was directly imitated by the Pyrrhonist Timon.28 In a famous hymn to the Muses, the Athenian statesman Solon had prayed that he might enjoy prosperity and a good reputation from all men. Crates ( SSR  v h 84) substitutes 'constant fodder for my belly'. Where Solon wished that he be 'sweet to my friends and bitter to my foes', Crates writes: 'helpful, not sweet, to my friends'. 
Instead  of  desiring,  as  Solon  had  done,  'justly  acquired  possessions', Crates likens these to the wealth of a beetle or an ant; he asks simply for 'a share  in  justice  and  wealth  that  is  harmless,  easy  to  transport,  easy  to acquire, and valuable for virtue'. 
The opening of his most famous poem (D.L. vi.85) begins by parodying the Homeric description of Crete ( Od. xviii.172-3):
There is a city Pera [punning on the word for the beggar's wallet] in the midst of wine-dark mist [punning on the Cynic catchword  tuphos ⫽the
'trumpery' of conventional values] fair and fertile, thoroughly squalid, possessing nothing, into which no fool sails, no parasite or lecher who delights  in  a  whore's  backside;  but  it  bears  thyme  and  garlic,  figs  and loaves, which are no cause for its inhabitants to war with one another, nor do they take up arms for profit or for fame. 
Another verse worth citing here is this:
I don't have one country as my refuge, nor a single roof, but every land has a city and house ready to entertain me. (D.L. vi.98)
Crates stamped his mark on the Cynic tradition not just through poetry but also through records of his remarks. Many of these set the scene for what  later  became  stock  Cynic  themes  -  the  indi◊erence  of  exile,  the necessity, for happiness, of freedom from passion. One surviving item has more theoretical interest. 
Crates argued that a happy life cannot be based upon a preponderance of pleasures  ( SSR  v  h 44).  He  sought  to  prove  this  by  running  through  all stages of life from infancy to old age: 'at every stage, one who reflects will find pains are considerably more numerous than pleasures'. As formulated, Cynic-sounding titles include 'Memorabilia on vain opinion' (Aristo, D.L. vii.163), 'On training' (Herillus, D.L. vii.166), a work in two books with the same title for Dionysius of Heraclea (D.L. vii.167), and much else besides. 
28 For examples of Timon's parodies, see Long 1978a, 75-7. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
632
t h e   s o c r a t i c   l e g a c y
this argument is scarcely a searching attack on hedonism. Crates may have developed it more subtly than it is transmitted. In any case, he probably had a philosophical target in view as well as, perhaps, a popular conception of happiness. If so, the best candidate is Cyrenaic hedonism (see below). 
That  an  attack  like  Crates'  went  home  is  virtually  proved  by  the  odd attempts of the later Cyrenaics to modify their hedonism. One of them, Hegesias, even denied the possibility of happiness, on grounds similar to those found in Crates' refutation of hedonism, and nominated absence of pain as the ethical goal (D.L. ii.94-5). It was left to Epicurus to disarm the force of Crates' criticism by identifying the ethical goal and limit of pleasure with absence of pain ( Ep. Men. 128, 131). Thus he could agree that pleasurable sensations, as construed by the Cyrenaics, might not predominate over  pains,  without  conceding  that  tranquillity  (freedom  from  pain  in body and mind) was similarly at risk. 
Crates emerges as a Cynic who remained faithful to Diogenes' principles. By disseminating those principles in attractive and satirical verse, he helped to promote Cynicism as a popular brand of ethics. A generation or so after Crates, Bion of Borysthenes (D.L.iv.46-54) was composing Cynic sermons  ('diatribes')  that  blended  moralizing  with  sarcasm.  The  Cynic became a familiar figure of Hellenistic culture, contributing to literature and appearing in it as a stock character. If the simplicity and extremity of Cynicism  were  its  undoing,  so  far  as  creative  philosophy  is  concerned, they  also  help  to  account  for  its  significance  in  Hellenistic  ethics.  The Cynics  had  succeeded  in  showing  that  many  conventional  values  were vulnerable to critical scrutiny. They had dramatized the capacity of reason to challenge the customary dependence of happiness on external circumstances. Thus they transmitted to Hellenistic philosophy the notion of a
'wise man', who is autonomous and una◊ected by the passions that trouble  less  fortified  characters.  These  were  radical  contributions  to  Greek ethics, and capable of being fruitfully developed quite independently of the Cynic's way-out life-style and hyperbolical discourse. 
v Aristippus and Cyrenaic hedonism
In  the  classical  tradition  Epicurus'  name  has  become  virtually  synonymous with hedonist, but in Carneades' famous 'division' of the possible ends of life that position is accorded to Aristippus of Cyrene, hereafter Aristippus Senior (Cic.  Fin. v.20; cf. ii.35). As an associate of Socrates and contemporary of Plato, Aristippus Senior must have been a hundred years or  so  older  than  Epicurus.  What  gave  him  the  status  of  honorary Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
a r i s t i p p u s   a n d   c y r e n a i c   h e d o n i s m 633
Hellenistic  philosopher  was  his  position,  or  believed  position,  as  the founder of the Cyrenaic school or schools.29
A number of Cyrenaic philosophers were active in the years from about 330 to 270 bc. Aristippus the Younger, a grandson of the Socratic philosopher,  had  probably  developed  his  own  brand  of  hedonism  some  years before Epicurus began his professional career. To the next generation, as contemporaries of Epicurus, we can date three further Cyrenaic philosophers, Anniceris, Theodorus and Hegesias. The di◊erences between them individually, and between them collectively and Epicurus, show that all four philosophers o◊ered rival interpretations of hedonism. In the event, Epicurus' version won out, as it deserved to do. By the middle of the third century bc Cyrenaic philosophy was obsolete. It had succeeded, however, in provoking opposition from the early Epicureans, while the doctrines of Anniceris,  Hegesias  and  Theodorus,  in  their  turn,  include  features  that are clear responses to Epicureanism.30 We can assume that controversy between  these  schools  was  much  livelier  than  our  meagre  record  of Cyrenaic philosophy makes explicit. Of the nine philosophical sects distinguished by the doxographer Hippobotus (writing in about 20 0 bc), no fewer than three refer to Cyrenaics - the Annicerians, the Theodoreans and the Cyrenaics as such (D.L. i.19; cf. ii.85). The remaining six are the Megarian,  Eretrian,  Epicurean,  Zenonian  or  Stoic,  Old  Academic  and Peripatetic.  The  followers  of  Hegesias  were  also  counted  as  a  distinct school. 
What impulse to Cyrenaic philosophy was given by Aristippus Senior? 
In  Mem.  ii.1.1-34, Xenophon presents a conversation between him and Socrates.  The  latter  finds  Aristippus  'too  unrestrained'  in  reference  to sensual  desires.  To  encourage  him  and  his  like  to  practise  'self-control'
( enkrateia),  Socrates  tries  to  persuade  Aristippus  that  the  life  of  a  ruler, which  requires  self-control,  is  superior  to  that  of  a  subject.  Aristippus, however, insists that there is a third option, a life neither of rule nor of slavery but of 'freedom, which is the best route to happiness' (ii.1.11). He declines the ruler's life as too burdensome: 'I assign myself to the class of those who want to live in the easiest and pleasantest way' (ii.1.9). As to 29 Diogenes Laertius' account of Aristippus and the Cyrenaics: ii.65-104; further testimonia in SSR  iv. 
30 For the Epicurean Colotes' presumed but anonymous attack on Cyrenaic epistemology, cf. Plu. 
 Col. 1120c-1121c. It is widely and rightly assumed that Epicurus formulated some of his ethical doctrines in deliberate opposition to the Cyrenaics: cf. D.L. x.136-7, with Giannantoni 1958, 102-5  (includes  bibliography).  As  to  the  latest  Cyrenaics,  including  Anniceris,  I  think  that some of their doctrines involve more direct reaction to Epicureanism than Laks 1993b seems prepared to allow. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
634
t h e   s o c r a t i c   l e g a c y
the life of a subject, or 'slavery', Aristippus has a policy for avoiding that too: 'I do not confine myself to a nationality, but I am an alien everywhere'
(ii.1.13).31 Xenophon's  Socrates  tries  to  persuade  Aristippus  that  he would do better to emulate Heracles, and choose the hard road of Virtue instead of the easy path to happiness promised by Vice. From this we can infer Aristippus' fame in his lifetime as a highly successful hedonist, or as someone  who  'always  made  the  best  of  circumstances;  for  he  derived pleasure from what was available, and did not laboriously pursue enjoyment of things not present' (D.L. ii.66). He was perceived as someone for whom happiness consists in the freedom to enjoy pleasurable sensations without surrendering autonomy and rationality. It is this latter element, the  maintenance  of  self-mastery,  which  primarily  connects  Aristippus Senior  with  Socrates.32 He  was  famous  for  saying  about  his  girl-friend Lais - 'I have Lais, but I am not had by her.'33
Cyrenaic hedonism is best construed as a theoretical defence of this lifestyle. As formulated by Aristippus the Younger, the e◊ective founder of the school (Eus.  PE  xiv.18.31-2), what constitutes the goal of life is the bodily pleasure of the moment.34 Construed as a movement or as a mental state ( pathos) supervening on movement, pleasure is limited to its experienced duration. A 'pleasure' which is merely remembered or merely anticipated does not count (D.L. ii.89), or rather it has either ceased to exist as an actual pleasure or does not yet do so. The ethical goal, then, is not happiness, in its traditional construal as a long-term state ( eudaimonia, D.L. 
ii.87-8).  This  focus  upon  the  unconditional  enjoyment  of  momentary, and especially bodily, pleasures fits what is attested concerning the physicalist and subjectivist tendencies of Cyrenaic philosophy.35 Since all that securely exists for someone is what he is currently experiencing, immediate feelings are the only guide to what is genuinely valuable. 
For  justifying  their  hedonism,  the  Cyrenaics  relied  on  an  argument (probably  a  commonplace  at  the  time)  that  'from  childhood  onward, without taking thought, we have an a√liation for pleasure'.36 The sup-31 The last remark might be read as an anticipation of Cynic cosmopolitanism, as perhaps it was by Theodorus, 'who said the world was his country' (D.L. ii.99). But Aristippus' itinerant life is the more probable basis of Xenophon's statement; cf. Classen 1958, 188. 
32 For further discussion of Aristippus' Socratic identity, cf. Döring 1988, esp. 5-6, 62-70. 
33 See testimonia collected as  SSR  iv a 96. 
34 As a working hypothesis, I assume that the main body of Cyrenaic doctrine in D.L. ii.86-93
derives from Aristippus the Younger and not from his grandfather. However, the account is also contaminated with developments initiated by the later Cyrenaics, especially Anniceris, who are discussed in D.L. ii.93-103. See Döring 1988 and Laks 1993b. 
35 See chapter 7. 
36 D.L. ii.88. A more elaborated version of the argument, in reference to all animals, is attributed by Aristotle to Eudoxus,  EN  x.2.1172b9-15. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
a r i s t i p p u s   a n d   c y r e n a i c   h e d o n i s m 635
posed  strength  of  the  argument  (and  also  its  obvious  weakness)  is  the instinctual nature of this behaviour. Epicurus adopted the argument too, but in general his hedonism is in striking contrast to that of the Cyrenaics. 
For him absence of pain  is  pleasure, static pleasure is superior to kinetic, mental pleasure is preferable to pleasure of the body. Above all, the happy Epicurean life is strongly constituted by pleasures of anticipation and recollection. Epicurus also sought to combine hedonism with careful attention  to  the  values  Socratic  philosophers  other  than  the  Cyrenaics  had assigned  to  rationality,  ethical  virtue  and  a  long-term  plan  of  life.  The Cyrenaics are interesting precisely because they acknowledged that such values must be subordinate at best in an ethical theory emphasizing the pleasure of the moment. 
A Cyrenaic will be an intelligent user of immediate sources of pleasure; he will respect other values only as prudence dictates (D.L. ii.91). Yet, as Epicurus clearly saw, so simple an ethical theory is highly vulnerable. For Cyrenaicism as so formulated to be at all plausible, immediate pleasures need to be more accessible than human experience commonly finds them to be. In addition, many people want more from their lives than instant gratification.  The  latest  Cyrenaics,  who  were  contemporary  with Epicurus,  modified  the  account  that  has  just  been  given  in  several respects:
Those of the Cyrenaic succession called Annicerians assigned no definite end for the whole of life, but said that there is a particular end for each action  -  the  pleasure  which  results  from  it.  These  Cyrenaics  utterly excluded  the  defining  mark  of  Epicurean  pleasure,  i.e.  the  removal  of pain, calling it the state of a corpse. For, in their view, we take joy not only in pleasures, but also in company and public distinction. Epicurus, on the other hand, thinks that all the soul's joy depends on the prior condition of the flesh.37 ( SSR  iv g 4)
The  rejection  of  a  'definite  end  for  the  whole  of  life'  will  have  helped Anniceris  to  emphasize  his  di◊erence  from  Epicurus.  In  his  view, Epicurus'  attempt  to  found  lasting  happiness  on  pleasure  was  a  cheat: Epicurus could only make this thesis sound at all plausible by conflating pleasure with absence of pain, and by such expedients as claiming mental pleasures and pains to be better or worse respectively than bodily ones. In defending the latter doctrine (D.L. ix.137), Epicurus argued that bodily pleasure or pain is a thing only of the present, in contrast with the soul's 37 For statements by Epicurus which seem to justify Anniceris' final gibe, cf.  KD  18, Cic.  Tusc. 
iii.41-2, Athen. 546f. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
636
t h e   s o c r a t i c   l e g a c y
involvement in the past and the future. It was probably Anniceris and his followers who made a point of reversing Epicurus' order of priorities for body  and  soul  (D.L.  ii.90).  At  the  same  time,  however,  Anniceris  is attested (above) as extending the scope of enjoyment to include social life and public acclaim.38
Anniceris'  hedonism  is  an  intelligible  development  of  earlier Cyrenaicism in response to the ethics of Epicurus.39 The special doctrines of  Theodorus  and  Hegesias,  to  which  we  now  turn,  manifest  further attempts  to  retain  vestiges  of  their  Aristippean  legacy,  while  diverging sharply from Anniceris as well as from Epicurus. 
Aristippus  Senior  had  served  as  the  paradigm  of  a  life  that  was  both autonomous  and  e◊ortlessly  successful  in  turning  circumstances  into sources  of  bodily  enjoyment.  The  second  of  these  characteristics  had become the distinctive mark of the Cyrenaic school, but for understanding its latest developments, it is essential to focus upon the first as well, treating it as both a Socratic trait and as the ethical disposition which all Hellenistic philosophies in their di◊erent ways took to be the hallmark of the wise man. In the case of Theodorus and Hegesias, we witness a further movement away from Aristippus' sensualist hedonism towards a philosophy which has much in common with the Cynic interpretation of Socratic ethics.  Theodorus  and  Hegesias,  however,  continue  to  di◊er  from  the Cynics in the value they assign to a hedonistic interpretation of self-interest. 
Theodorus is described as a pupil both of Aristippus the Younger and of Anniceris.  Both  of  these  reports  may  be  correct,  since  Theodorus  was probably  about  the  same  age  as  Anniceris,  and  slightly  older  than Epicurus. As influences on his philosophy, the Cynics appear to have been as important as his Cyrenaic mentors. Theodorus in turn was a teacher of the Cynic Bion of Borysthenes, whose career has strong resemblances to his  own.40 No  later  than  the  year  307,  Theodorus  was  banished  from Athens for writing a book  On the gods, in which he totally denied the gods'
existence.41 For this he became notorious as one of the few declared atheists  of  antiquity.  Not  surprisingly,  he  was  credited  with  influencing Epicurus (D.L. ii 97), whose theology was regularly criticized for its athe-38 Contra Döring 1988, 55, Anniceris is orthodox in this view: cf. Laks 1993b, 39-49. 
39 Note too the Cyrenaic wise man's immunity from envy, erotic passion and superstition (D.L. 
ii.91). Despite its attribution to the Cyrenaics in general, this testimony reads like an attempt by Anniceris to bring the Cyrenaic wise man into line with his Epicurean counterpart. 
40 For Theodorus' Cynic leanings and his teaching of Bion, see Kindstrand 1976, 11, 68-70. 
41 For the evidence on Theodorus' atheism, see  SSR  iv h 14-24, and for the date of his exile from Athens, cf. Kindstrand 1976, 5. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
a r i s t i p p u s   a n d   c y r e n a i c   h e d o n i s m 637
istic implications.42 Even if there is no truth in this report, the exile of Theodorus may well have served as a warning to Epicurus about how not to formulate his own account of the gods. 
Theodorus went much further than Anniceris had done in modifying Aristippean hedonism. Anniceris had admitted some conventionally valued  practices  as  sources  of  gratification  additional  to  bodily  pleasure. 
Theodorus had no use for conventional morality, on the grounds that the only sanction against theft, adultery and sacrilege was the worthless prejudice of popular opinion; circumstances could justify such actions (D.L. 
ii.99).  Yet  he  was  not,  as  this  might  imply,  a  moral  sceptic.  Earlier Cyrenaics had granted only instrumental goodness to prudence ( phrone-sis, D.L. ii.91). Theodorus said that prudence  and  justice were 'goods', and that  the  first  of  these  was  the  foundation  of  'joy':  joy  was  the  supreme desirable and distress the supreme undesirable (D.L. ii.98). These statements, even if they do not upgrade prudence to a  per se  good, certainly emphasize  its  primacy  to  a  degree  that  is  Epicurean  (cf.  Ep.  Men.  132) rather than Cyrenaic. By grounding joy in prudence - i.e., the wise character of the agent - he presumably thought he could o◊er an ethical theory which  would  compete  successfully  with  the  other  Hellenistic  options, while  retaining  an  appeal  of  its  own  in  its  emphasis  on  the  wise  man's autonomy  and  self-su√ciency.  Still  more  remarkable  in  a  Cyrenaic, Theodorus  relegated  bodily  pleasure  and  pain  to  a  status  intermediate between the good states of character, prudence and justice, and their bad opposites.43 In what we should read as opposition to Anniceris (cf. D.L. 
ii.96) he did away with friendship and patriotism on grounds that make use of the Cynic distinction between wise and foolish. Genuine, as distinct from purely utilitarian, friendships do not exist between fools, and wise men have no need of friends. As for patriotism, it would not be reasonable for a wise man to give up his life for the sake of fools. 
Hegesias, the final Cyrenaic we have to consider, can similarly be interpreted as moving towards a position which could claim some of the attractions of the other Hellenistic schools. Taking a cue from the Cynics, he claimed  that  circumstances  -  for  example,  poverty,  wealth,  freedom, slavery - are utterly indi◊erent as the measure of pleasure or pain (D.L. 
ii.93-6).  In  a  manner  that  anticipates  the  sceptical  modes  of 42 See chapter 13. 
43 What did Theodorus mean by justice? If D.L. ii.93 is any guide (general Cyrenaic doxography), he agreed with Epicurus that the virtuous man will be deterred from doing anything unacceptable by punishments and public opinion: i.e., his view of justice was probably entirely prudential. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
638
t h e   s o c r a t i c   l e g a c y
Aenesidemus, he supported this thesis by rejecting any causal connection between pleasure or pain and the nature of their sources.44 A wise man acts purely out of self-interest. Since the senses are no objective criterion of truth, he always does 'what  appears  reasonable'. This last presumably means 'what appears reasonable to promote his interests', where interests are  specified  by  pleasures  and  the  avoidance  of  pains.  Hegesias  agreed with Anniceris in taking these pleasures and pains to be mental  and  bodily; he did not adopt Theodorus' extreme position of judging bodily pleasures  and  pains  to  be  indi◊erent.  Like  Theodorus,  however,  he  rejected conventional  morality,  even  denying  the  existence  of  gratitude,  friendship and beneficence, on the grounds that these are misleading names for purely self-interested action. 
Sceptical though he was about any objective discrimination between circumstances  as  sources  of  pleasure  or  pain,  Hegesias  actually  agreed with Crates that happiness on hedonist foundations is completely impossible.  He  reached  this  gloomy  conclusion  by  arguing  that  su◊ering  is endemic  to  body  and  soul,  and  that  fortune  frequently  frustrates  one's hopes.  Instead  of  considering  other  possible  sources  of  happiness, Hegesias seems to have insisted that, despite its disappointing outcome, hedonism remains the only feasible ethical viewpoint. Accordingly, to be consistent with his negative position on happiness, he formulated his ethical goal not as pleasure but as 'living without bodily or mental pain'. 
Anniceris had caustically labelled 'absence of pain' the state of a corpse, thereby  indicating  his  total  rejection  of  the  value  Epicureans  made supreme.  That  a  fellow  Cyrenaic,  albeit  a  rival  exponent,  should  agree with  Epicurus  on  this  point  must  have  been  'the  kiss  of  death'  to Aristippus'  hedonism.  I  use  this  colloquialism  in  order  to  allude  to  an alleged consequence of Hegesias' philosophy, which earned him notoriety equal to that of Theodorus' atheism. It is reported thus by Cicero: Death removes us from bad things, not from goods, if we are looking for the truth [about death]. This very point was treated in such detail by the Cyrenaic  Hegesias  that  he  is  said  to  have  been  forbidden  by  King Ptolemy  to  lecture  on  the  subject  because  many  of  his  audience  later committed suicide. (Cic.  Tusc. i.83)
Hegesias represents an extraordinary reversal of the original impulses of Cyrenaic philosophy. After being interestingly formulated by Aristippus 44 'It is because of scarcity or rarity or surplus that people di◊er in what they find pleasurable or the reverse' (D.L. ii.94). Cf. Aenesidemus' ninth mode, 'frequency or scarcity', as reported by S.E.  PH  i.141-4. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
s o c r a t i c   e t h i c s   a n d   h e l l e n i s t i c   s c e p t i c i s m 639
the Younger, the school fell apart in the doctrinal disarray manifested by Anniceris,  Theodorus  and  Hegesias.  Each  of  these  philosophers,  as  we have seen, tried to retain a distinctive version of hedonism in the face of Epicureanism.  It  is  attractive  to  suppose  that  part  of  Epicurus'  success was due to the necessity of meeting Cyrenaic challenges and of developing a hedonistic ethics which would prove, as indeed it did, to be incomparably more sophisticated and comprehensive than all its rivals. 
vi Socratic ethics and Hellenistic scepticism
Rational  control  over  emotions  and  external  circumstances,  criticism of conventional ethics, inner freedom, independence of judgement, tranquillity, the guidance of prudence or wisdom - these are the elements of Socrates' ethical legacy which left their mark on the Cyrenaics as well as on the Cynics, on the Epicureans as well as on the Stoics. However, there was  another  aspect  or  interpretation  of  Socrates  which  none  of  these schools, doctrinal as they were, had any interest in appropriating or countenancing - Socrates' disavowal of knowledge. Only Plato among those of Socrates' disciples who wrote about him emphasized this aspect, and even Plato never presented Socrates as someone who denied or doubted that knowledge is accessible to human beings. Whether we interpret Socrates'
disavowal of knowledge as a dialectical device, or as a complex irony, or as a  confession  of  human  limitations,  the  identification  of  him  as  a  full-fledged sceptic almost certainly originated in the post-Platonic Academy of Arcesilaus (c.316-241 bc). On the evidence of Cicero, Arcesilaus made it his business to replace doctrinal Platonism with the practice of refuting every thesis he was o◊ered; and he invoked Socrates as the authority for his negative dialectic ( Acad.  i.44-5). 45
From  Arcesilaus,  whose  stance  was  one  of  'suspending  judgement about  everything',  substantive  ethical  doctrines  are  not  to  be  expected. 
Socrates was important to him primarily as someone he could adduce as a precedent for his own sceptical objectives. None the less, there is also an ethical dimension to Arcesilaus' scepticism, and in this too we may clearly trace Socrates' legacy. The Platonic Socrates had made it his principal mission to expose the self-deception of those who thought that they knew things when they did not. Arcesilaus, starting from the unSocratic position that nothing can be known (Cic.  Acad. i.45), drew the conclusion that 45 Evidence on Arcesilaus: in Mette 1984, Long and Sedley 1987, ch.68. Reasons for regarding him as the discoverer or inventor of the sceptical Socrates are developed in Long 1988b, 156-60. See also Long 1986a, 440-1. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
640
t h e   s o c r a t i c   l e g a c y
wisdom consists in refraining from opinion, or, to put it in ethical terms, that  complete  suspension  of  judgement  is  'the  right  and  honourable'
characteristic  of  a  wise  man  (Cic.  Acad.  ii.77).  Even  if  the  language  is Cicero's, and even if Arcesilaus developed this position only in the context of arguing against the Stoics' theory of knowledge, Arcesilaus' ruth-less opposition to 'opining' has the ring of historical truth. The Stoics and the Epicureans, confident though they were in attributing knowledge to their wise man, were no less insistent on stigmatizing opinion, or 'empty opinion', as the condition that accounts for unhappiness and emotional disturbance. 
In  the  eyes  of  doctrinal  philosophers  opinion  was  a  weak  cognitive state, unjustifiable when scrutinized and typically identified not only by its falsity but also by its damaging ethical consequences. Standard examples, which go back to Socrates of course, are the opinions that death is an evil  and  that  happiness  depends  on  material  success.  Stoics  and Epicureans  thought  they  could  show  why  such  opinions  are  false,  and what the truth is about death, and so forth. To a Hellenistic sceptic the problem about opinions is not simply their liability to be false but their never being justifiable, irrespective of their content or their ethical implications. We should live without opinions, and commit ourselves to nothing. That posture was adopted not only by Arcesilaus, but also by Pyrrho one or two generations earlier. In Pyrrho, however, rigorous scepticism has a psychological benefit, which Arcesilaus did not apparently specify: it leads to tranquillity. 
Pyrrho is a bridge-figure, old enough to have accompanied Alexander the Great to India, but looking forward, in his influence, to the new movements  in  Hellenistic  thought.46 Some  Greek  historians  of  philosophy tried  to  fit  him  into  the  succession  of  philosophers  who  were  directly Socratic.  Although  that  is  probably  incorrect,  he  can  appropriately  be related to the Socratic legacy. 
Like Socrates, Pyrrho wrote nothing, so we are dependent for the little that is known about him on his publicist, Timon of Phlius, and an unreliable biographical tradition. Pyrrho's chief ethical importance consists in connections  he  is  said  to  have  drawn  between  happiness,  epistemology and nature (objective reality). He urged that happiness depends upon how 46 Diogenes Laertius presents his account of Pyrrho in Book ix.61-108. For further texts and discussion see Decleva Caizzi 1981a, Long and Sedley 1987, chs. 1 and 2; I here substantially repeat what I wrote in my contributions to L. C. Becker 1992a, 469-70 and L. C. Becker 1992b, 24-5. 
Passages relating to the epistemological basis of Pyrrho's ethics are quoted and discussed above, pp. 241-9. A highly original interpretation of Pyrrho's ethics, connecting it with theories of the Stoic Aristo, is given by Ausland 1989. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
s o c r a t i c   e t h i c s   a n d   h e l l e n i s t i c   s c e p t i c i s m 641
we dispose ourselves to nature. However, nature is completely unknowable, and therefore the attitude we should take towards it is one of complete suspension of judgement. Thereby we shall attain happiness in the form of tranquillity.47
Timon characterizes Pyrrho himself as someone who had fully achieved this state. Pyrrho does not accept that anything is good or bad by nature. 
He  achieves  serenity  precisely  by  committing  himself  to  nothing.  This radical attitude liberates him from fear and desire. He governs his life by what he takes to be mere 'appearance', unconcerned about what if anything it is an appearance of. Whether someone can in fact live a life of radical  scepticism  became  an  issue  that  was  soon  to  be  debated  between Stoics and Academics. Pyrrho's importance for Hellenistic ethics consists in his raising the question at the beginning of the period. In his concern to undermine  baseless  opinions  and  unjustified  emotional  reactions,  he anticipates  the  Stoics  and  Epicureans.  His  supreme  evaluation  of  tranquillity also foreshadows their ethical ideals. 
Important though these connections are, Pyrrho's greatest significance for Hellenistic ethics lies in his linking that field of inquiry to philosophy of  nature  and  epistemology.  Like  Plato,  and  to  a  more  limited  extent Aristotle, but unlike Socrates and the Cynics, Pyrrho held that ethics cannot  be  isolated  from  an  understanding  of  how  the  physical  world impinges upon us. Although he interpreted that understanding in wholly negative  terms,  he  set  an  agenda  which  other  philosophers,  dissatisfied with scepticism, could use positively. That point was taken by the Stoics and  the  Epicureans.  They  insisted  that  knowledge  is  possible,  and  that what we can know about the way the world is structured bears directly upon our own good, and upon how we should dispose ourselves to the world.  Thus  their  ethical  ideals,  though  importantly  similar  to  one  or other of the Socratic options, were given a comprehensive philosophical grounding far more ambitious than anything available in the Socratic legacy itself. 
47 See especially fr.53 Decleva Caizzi (⫽ Euseb.  Praep.Ev. xiv.18.1-5). 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
20
Epicurean ethics
m i c h a e l   e r l e r   a n d   m a l c o l m   s c h o f i e l d i Introduction1
On a goblet found in Boscoreale two philosophers are depicted as skeletons: Zeno the Stoic, and Epicurus. According to the inscription on the goblet they are engaged in discussion as to whether pleasure is the goal of all actions ( telos).2 It is clear from Zeno's attitude that he is eagerly trying to persuade Epicurus. Epicurus is depicted in a rather more casual pose. 
His attention is concentrated less on the person opposite him than on a piece of cake lying on a table in front of him. This scene encapsulates the popular image of the two schools in a mixture of true insight and false understanding. The contrasting attitudes of the two philosophers in fact symbolize a fundamental distinction between Stoa and Garden: Zeno's tense bearing is appropriate as a representation of the Stoic school, whilst the casual pose suited the Epicureans. The Epicureans believed it was folly to dwell in the mind on evils which might possibly occur or have already occurred.  In  their  view  this  leads  to  aggravation  of  our  distress. 
Alleviation will result if as well as taking our minds o◊ what troubles us ( avocatio a cogitanda molestia) we give our attention to what brings pleasure  ( revocatio  ad  contemplandas  voluptates)  (Cic.  Tusc.  iii.32-3).  But  it  is equally  interesting  to  consider  the  misconception  of  Epicurean  ethics which is suggested by the scene on the goblet. Epicurus allows himself to be distracted by a piece of cake; he is thus presented as honouring physical pleasures.  As  if  to  confirm  this  interpretation,  at  his  feet  a  piglet  is depicted, reminiscent of Horace's ironic description of himself as 'a true hog of Epicurus' herd' (Hor.  Ep. i.4.16). 
1 The principal ancient sources for Epicurean ethics are: Diogenes Laertius  x, which contains Epicurus'  Letter to Menoeceus  and  Key Doctrines ( Kuriai Doxai) as well as doxographical material; Cicero  De Finibus  i and ii; Lucretius,  De Rerum Natura (although of course physics is its principal focus). The  Sententiae Vaticanae  ascribed to Epicurus are available e.g. in von der Mühll 1922 or Bailey 1926. Much further material is provided by Usener 1887 (hereafter Us.), especially nos. 
396-607. Also important are the anti-Epicurean writings of Plutarch, the ethical treatises of Philodemus, and the fragments of Diogenes of Oenoanda. 
2 Dunbabin 1986, especially 224; Zanker 1995, 20 0 with plate 109. 
[642]
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
i n t r o d u c t i o n
643
Thus the goblet portrays Epicurus in a manner that reflects the popular understanding.  He  was  regarded  as  the  representative  of  a  hedonism which  owed  allegiance  to  the  stomach  rather  than  the  mind.  This  misinterpretation of Epicurean ethics has a long history, which can be traced back even as far as Epicurus' own circle.3 Timocrates, one of his pupils, later deserted the cause and re-examined his teacher critically. When he did  so  he  inveighed  against  the  exaltation  of  pleasure  and  accused Epicurus of excess. With him began a tradition which not only continued through  antiquity  but  evolved  throughout  the  Middle  Ages  and  the Renaissance right up to the modern period, and at times has even influenced scholarly analysis of Epicurus' ethics.4
To  some  extent  Epicurus  himself  can  be  held  responsible  for  such polemics. Aphorisms like the following almost invite an interpretation of his ethics as a philosophy advocating gross physical pleasure: 'The beginning and root of all good is the stomach's pleasure' (Athen. 546f ).5 When taken out of their original context, it was easy to misconstrue remarks of this kind. It should of course be borne in mind that such statements were intended to provoke, and probably had a role in counter-polemic. In the Letter  to  Menoeceus,  Epicurus  comments  on  misinterpretations  of  his views:
Neither  drinking-parties  nor  continual  revelry  nor  the  enjoyment  of boys and girls, or fish and all that a lavish table can o◊er, can provide a life of pleasure - only sober reason. (Epic.  Ep.  Men. 132) Epicurus in fact extols a kind of asceticism, a reduction in the number and  scope  of  our  desires  dictated  by  reason.  In  his  school  his  students competed fiercely over who led the most modest lifestyle. Many adversaries  of  Epicurus  are  perfectly  well  aware  of  the  distinction  between Epicurus' true opinions and the image of excessive indulgence. Thus later philosophers  and  scholars  like  Valla  or  Gassendi  quite  rightly  acquit Epicurus when he is accused of vulgar hedonism. Nietzsche made a particularly apt appraisal:
A  little  garden,  some  figs,  a  piece  of  cheese,  plus  three  or  four  good friends - that was the sum of Epicurus' extravagance.6
3 See Schmid 1962, 774◊.; Jones 1989, 94◊. 
4 For early polemic against Epicurus, see Sedley 1976a; for the history of Epicureanism in the Middle Ages and thereafter, see Hossenfelder 1991a, 140◊., Jones 1989, 117◊. 
5 Cf. Sedley 1976a, 132. 
6 Nietzsche's remark:  Human, All Too Human, vol.ii part 2, no. 192. On Lucretius' interpretation of the reduction of desires (with comments on Porphyry's use of Epicurus) see Schmid 1978; also Nussbaum 1994, chs. 5 and 7. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
644
e p i c u r e a n   e t h i c s
ii Ethics within the philosophy of Epicurus
In common with other Hellenistic schools, Epicureanism advocates the good life or  eudaimonia  as the goal of all actions. What is distinctive in its position  becomes  apparent  in  the  concrete  form  of  the  good  we  are thereby to achieve: pleasure, construed as quiet of mind ( ataraxia) and the absence of bodily pain ( aponia). If the precepts formulated in his ethics are heeded, then Epicurus promises that man can lead a divine life on earth: Then practise these things and all that belongs with them to yourself day and  night,  and  to  someone  like  yourself.  Then  you  will  never  be  disturbed waking or dreaming, and you will live amongst men like a god. 
(Epic.  Ep. Men. 135)
In common again with what other Hellenistic schools thought, Epicurus sees in philosophy an art of living, and lays emphasis on its function as an activity 'which through arguments and discussions brings about a life of happiness' (S.E.  M  xi.169). He o◊ers not only a general methodology but also practical advice for dealing with widely varying conditions of life on earth, as well as a foundational ethical theory. 
Keeping  his  eyes  fixed  on  the  goal,  Epicurus  eliminated  everything which he considered superfluous to its attainment. This included not only cultural  values  but  also  the  sciences  and  arts.  'Hoist  your  sail',  he  told Pythocles,  'and  flee  from  every  form  of   paideia'  (D.L.  x.5).  All  of  it  he rejected in the belief that such studies are not necessary to reach that state of happiness in which men can scarcely be distinguished from the gods. 
Epicurus thought the only thing needed to make someone an Epicurean was knowledge and acceptance of his basic teachings, as these are summarized in the  Tetrapharmakos. In this way it is possible even for ordinary people to attain to  eudaimonia  without previous  paideia.7
Despising external circumstances, as something which cannot be mastered,8 goes hand in hand with the belief that man can control his inner attitude. Diogenes of Oenoanda, an Epicurean from Imperial times, gives classic expression to this view in his inscription:
The key to happiness is the inner attitude ( diathesis) of which we ourselves are masters. A military campaign is an arduous a◊air and is under the control of others; an orator's life consists of agitation and anxiety as to whether he will manage to convince. So why do we pursue such things over which others exert power? (Diog. Oen. fr. 112 Smith)
7 See Gigante 1981, Dihle 1986b. 
8 But Epicurus rejects the notion of fate, as a philosophers' fiction: see e.g.  Ep. Men.  133-4. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
e t h i c s   w i t h i n   t h e   p h i l o s o p h y   o f   e p i c u r u s 645
The  state  of  happiness  to  which  man  aspires  is  attained  by  eliminating illusions about the gods; by achieving the correct attitude towards death; and by confining desires to goals that are within easy reach. These principles are formulated in the so-called  Tetrapharmakos:
God presents no fears, death no cause for alarm; it is easy to procure what is good; it is also easy to endure what is evil. (Phld.  Ad Cont. ,  PHerc. 10 05, col. 4.9-14)9
The first two of these basic maxims, reproduced in longer versions as KD  1  and  2,  point  us  to  something  of  crucial  importance  in  the  whole Epicurean approach to philosophy. For these are principles which can be established only by physics, not by ethical inquiry narrowly conceived. It is  Epicurus'  mechanistic  philosophy  of  nature  which  eliminates  from explanation of the phenomena divine providence or indeed any kind of divine involvement in the world or in human a◊airs. We are then left with a  preconception  ( prole-psis)  of  gods,  purified  of  false  popular  beliefs,  as blessed imperishable beings whose nature is not subject to the weakness from which anger and favour originate.10 Similarly, what should arm us against the fear of death is Epicurus' demonstration of the nature of the soul as nothing but a particular kind of atom distributed throughout the body during its life, but dispersed when we die. The terrors of hell are therefore  nothing  to  us,  since  physics  tells  us  that  matter  which  is  dispersed  has  no  feeling.11 So  ethics  needs  physics  in  order  to  get  these things  in  proper  perspective.12 But  Epicurus  goes  further:  the  whole point of doing physics in the first place is to release us from fears without which happiness, the goal of life determined by ethical inquiry, cannot be attained:
There is no way to dispel being afraid about matters of supreme importance if someone does not know what the nature of the universe is, but is anxious about some of the things retailed in myths. Hence without natural philosophy it is impossible to secure the purity of our pleasures. 
( KD  12)
9 Greek text available in Angeli 1988a, 173. 
10 Cf.  Ep. Men. 123-4; on the προ!ληψι of gods see e.g. Manuwald 1972, Glidden 1985. 
11 The fullest exposition of this thesis is presented by Lucretius in  De Rerum Natura  iii; cf. Kerferd 1971. 
12 Although the Epicureans had things to say in the context of physics about the atomic basis of pleasure and pain (cf. e.g. Lucr. ii.963-6, iv.622-32), they appear never to appeal to it in ethical writings when presenting ideas about the nature of these πα!θη, contrary to what the interpretations of some scholars (e.g. Rist 1972, 102; Glidden 1980) would lead one to expect. For discussion of their general view of the relation of the mind and the body see above, chapter 16. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
646
e p i c u r e a n   e t h i c s
Were we not upset by the worries that celestial phenomena and death might matter to us, and also by failure to appreciate the limits of pains and desires, we would have no need for natural philosophy. ( KD  11) And as Torquatus is made to say in the  De Finibus (Cic.  Fin. i.64), if and only if we practise philosophy will we acquire courage to face the fear of death,  steadfastness  to  resist  religious  dread,  peace  of  mind  because  it removes ignorance of what is unseen, and moderation thanks to its explanation of the nature and species of desire (this like  KD  11 indicates that the second pair of maxims in the  Tetrapharmakos, stated in more detail as  KD  3
and 4, in the end depend on understanding nature - human, not now cosmic, nature). 
' Tetrapharmakos'  means  'fourfold  remedy';  and  Epicureanism  often characterizes philosophy as a therapy. In one collection of Epicurean sayings we find the remark:
We must not pretend to philosophize - we must  really  philosophize: for what we need is not to think we are in health, but actually to  be  in health. 
(Epic.  Sent.Vat. 54)
And Porphyry cites the Epicurean aphorism, reminiscent of Pythagorean teaching:
Empty  is  that  philosopher's  discourse  which  o◊ers  therapy  for  no human passion. Just as there is no use in medical expertise if it does not expel the sicknesses of bodies, so there is no use in philosophy if it does not expel the passion of the soul. (Porph.  Marc. 31 )
Philosophy  as  therapy  and  the  philosopher  as  a  doctor  of  the  soul:  the analogy is familiar from Democritus and Plato. Yet in Epicurus' case it is carried  through  with  particular  thoroughness.  His  teaching  is  a  sort  of medicine  and  his  writings  a  kind  of  prescription.  Philologically  exact readings and interpretations of these texts form an integral part of their therapeutic ethics for Epicureans.13
Anyone who successfully experiences an Epicurean therapy and frees himself  from  the  erroneous  views  that  lead  mankind  astray  can  be counted a wise man. He is self-su√cient and for this reason not a burden to others. For him the promise of Epicurus has been fulfilled, that a state of virtually divine bliss can be attained on earth. The gods experience no di√culties themselves, nor cause others any.14 Epicurus was himself evi-13 See further Erler 1993. 
14 So  KD  1; this formulation finds a remarkable echo in  Sent. Vat. 79: 'The person who has achieved ataraxia  causes no disturbance to himself or to another'. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
p h i l o s o p h i c a l   b a c k g r o u n d 647
dently convinced that he had achieved this condition. This is suggested in a letter to his mother, which Diogenes of Oenoanda immortalized in the inscription on his monument:15
For these things to which I aspire are not trivial. It is a question of things which make my condition resemble that of the gods and which prove to me as a human being that, despite mortality, I do not take second place to that nature which is immortal and blessed. For whilst I am alive, I have pleasure to the same degree as the gods. (Diog. Oen. fr. 125-6 Smith) Thus Epicurus' life itself is o◊ered as evidence for the truth of his theory. His pupils are therefore required to practise imitation, and they honour their master, almost as in a cult, in that they constantly behave as if he were a witness of their actions.16
iii Philosophical background
Already before Epicurus, poets and philosophers tried to answer the question of how much significance should be attributed to pleasure in human life. Like Heracles at the crossroads, man must weigh up whether to prefer pleasure or virtue.17 From Democritus in particular came several lines of  thought  which  were  helpful  in  laying  the  theoretical  foundations  of hedonism as we find it in Epicurus.18 The debate between Epicureanism and the rival hedonistic theories of contemporary Cyrenaics has already been  introduced  in  the  previous  chapter.19 Finally,  we  must  also  take account of the possible influence of Academic and Peripatetic doctrine. 
When Epicurus awarded pleasure the rank of ultimate good, and pain that of  ultimate  evil,  he  completed  the  last  stage  of  a  transformation  of  the older ethics of virtue ( arete-) as prowess on a public stage into a concern with  eudaimonia  interpreted in terms of subjective experience: a transformation that may with hindsight be perceived as mediated by the fierce and unresolved debate over the role of pleasure in which Plato, Aristotle and the Academy engaged. 
Both Plato and Aristotle accept that pleasure can be seen as an ingredient in the human good. Plato advocates a mixed life, in which pleasure and reason are combined. In Plato's ranking of goods understanding is certainly  accorded  a  higher  position.  In  his  view  pleasure  belongs  to  the 15 See M. F. Smith 1993, 555-8 for doubts about Epicurus' authorship; like Clay 1990, 2451-2, he gives a positive verdict. 
16 See Clay 1986 (and cf. p. 674 below). 
17 Cf. Xen.  Mem. ii.1.21-34. 
18 Gosling and Taylor 1982, ch. 2, discuss the Democritean material. 
19 See pp. 632-9 above; further discussion below, pp. 652, 654-7. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
648
e p i c u r e a n   e t h i c s
realm of becoming. Because everything that comes into being has a purpose, pleasure cannot in itself be a  telos.20 The value of pleasure has to be assessed against yardsticks such as purity or measure which are not intrinsic to it. Like Plato Aristotle argues against pure hedonism, as expounded, for  example,  by  Eudoxus  of  Cnidos,  a  contemporary  of  his  in  the Academy.21 But he too extracts from hedonism something positive. For example,  in  his  treatment  of  the  topic  in  Book  vii of  the   Nicomachean Ethics  he finds the essence of pleasure in the unimpeded activity ( energeia) of a natural condition ( hexis) of soul ( EN  1153a14-15). In line with the status he gives to human intellectual activity, the pleasure associated with it is accorded the highest value. Both Plato and Aristotle accordingly hold complex and nuanced views of pleasure, with positive as well as negative aspects. This is a standpoint which Epicurus rejects. For him every pleasure is,  qua  pleasure, inherently good, and pain,  qua  pain, inherently evil. 
Here, then, is the backdrop for our presentation of the main elements and  characteristics  of  Epicurus'  teaching.  It  is  a  hotly  debated  question how far Epicurus developed his doctrine through conscious engagement with his predecessors by direct reference to their works. Epicurus himself stresses repeatedly the originality of his position and denies ever having had teachers. Already in antiquity his own assertion of independence stood in opposition to others' accusations that he was dependent on predecessors, indeed guilty of plagiarism. If Epicurus does add anything original to what he borrows, in Cicero's view he simply makes it worse.22 We may ignore the  exaggerations  of  the  warring  parties,  but  that  Epicurus  knew  his hedonism owed something to his reading of e.g. Democritus and Plato, as well as to debate with Aristippus the Younger, is hard to doubt. It would be particularly  interesting  and  useful  to  know  in  this  context  whether Epicurus had access to the works of Aristotle other than his dialogues.23
iv Pleasure and the foundation of ethics
For Epicurus as for philosophers of other schools, the ultimate goal of all actions is to attain human  eudaimonia. Starting from the conviction that 20 Cf. Plato  Rep. 581c-588a,  Phlb. 53c-55a, 65a-67b. 
21 Cf. Arist.  EN  x.1172b9-1173a13, with discussion e.g. by Merlan 1960, 30 ◊., Gosling and Taylor 1982, ch. 14, and Krämer 1983, 73◊. 
22 Cf. e.g. Cic.  ND  i.72,  Fin. i.17; S.E.  M  i.3; Eus.  PE  xiv.20.14. 
23 Cf. Phld.  Ad Cont. ( PHerc. 10 05) fr. 111 Angeli, with discussion in Angeli 1988a, 233-40. See also Sandbach 1985, 4◊. The question of Epicurus' originality is bound up with the nature of his relationship with his teachers Praxiphanes and Nausiphanes. A brief general survey of the background to his hedonism: Rist 1974. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
p l e a s u r e   a n d   t h e   f o u n d a t i o n   o f   e t h i c s 649
all men strive after happiness, Epicurus, like others, saw happiness as a good. Epicurus equates this good unequivocally with pleasure24 and correspondingly identifies the greatest evil with the greatest pain. Thus it is fundamental  to  his  ethics  to  regard  pleasure  as  something  valuable  in itself. Furthermore Epicurus maintains a connection between the elimination of all pain and the degree of pleasure attained. In his view there is no third state, no so to speak neutral state, between the two poles of pain and pleasure. Accordingly freedom from physical pain ( aponia) and freedom from mental disturbance ( ataraxia) constitute the ultimate goal of all actions for Epicurus. He sums up his position as follows:
We declare pleasure to be the beginning and end of the blessed life; for we have recognized pleasure as the first and natural good, and from this we start in every choice and avoidance, and this we make our goal, using feeling as the canon by which we judge every good. (Epic.  Ep. Men. 128) In  support  of  his  viewpoint  Epicurus  alludes  here  to  observations which every person can make about himself and others: all humans strive by nature after pleasure because it is good, and avoid pain because it is bad.  For  his  principal  thesis,  however,  he  relies  on  appeal  to  'feeling'
( pathos) or - as other passages indicate - 'sensation' ( aisthe-sis). He does not consider it necessary to present  argument  in proof of the identity of pleasure and good, because he takes sensation and feeling to be the criteria of truth: on his view all good and evil are immediately accessible to sensation.  In  Cicero's   De  Finibus,  the  Epicurean  Torquatus  comments  in  his account  of  Epicurus'  thesis  that  the  same  self-evidence  attaches  to  the equation of the highest good with the highest pleasure as attaches to the facts that snow is white, fire is hot, and honey is sweet. No intricate line of reasoning is necessary here ( Fin. i.30).25
Given  the  basic  principles  of  his  epistemology,  Epicurus'  position makes sense. Yet it became enveloped in controversy. The conjunction of Epicurus' claim that what he states is evident with his refusal to provide any proof of it was found particularly provocative. At any rate, some of his followers clearly tried to find an argumentative basis for the thesis that pleasure is the good despite Epicurus' stance on the matter. For example, his observation (reported by Diogenes Laertius) that as soon as they are born, animals find satisfaction in pleasure but are upset by pain, is there described  as  a  'proof '  ( apodeixis)  of  the  thesis  that  pleasure  is  the  goal 24 But for complications see below, p. 665 with n. 58. 
25 Cf. also  Fin. ii.36, iii.3. On  pathe-  as the criteria of choice and avoidance see Gosling and Taylor 1982, ch. 20. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
650
e p i c u r e a n   e t h i c s
(D.L. x.137). This 'cradle' argument, as it has become convenient to call it, is not contained in the parts of Epicurus' writings that survive. However there is good reason to think it goes back to him. In the version preserved by Cicero it is made clear enough what status Epicurus accorded to it. It is presented not as a direct, independent proof that pleasure is good, pain bad, but merely as a reason for thinking that our adult desire for pleasure and  aversion  to  pain  must  be  something  natural  to  us,  not  the  consequence of exposure to the corruptions of upbringing or society.26
Cicero's presentation of Epicurus' position continues with reports of some specific attempts by later Epicureans to palliate his insistence on the self-evidence  of  the  goodness  of  pleasure  and  the  badness  of  pain  ( Fin. 
i.31). One group held that it was not su√cient to appeal to the judgement of  sensation:  reason  too  needs  to  be  invoked.  And  they  found  a  way  of resorting to reason here which they evidently took to be entirely compatible with Epicurus' eschewal of proofs. They claimed that it is as if our minds are naturally endowed with a conception ( quasi naturalis atque insita notio; Greek  prole-psis, 'preconception') of the desirability of having pleasure  and  not  having  pain.  Whether  this  was  the  manner  in  which Epicureans  standardly  conceived  of  preconceptions  is  doubtful:  they were  the  outcome  of  experience,  not  innate  ideas  -  although  the   quasi carefully  avoids  saying  otherwise.  It  was  certainly  orthodox  to  treat them as criteria comparable with feelings and sensations in directly guaranteeing the truth of what they enunciate. The attempt to find in our reason a criterion of the truth of Epicurus' thesis about pleasure and pain was presumably an attempt to forestall or rebut the criticism that only reason could judge whether pleasure is good or bad.27
There  follows  an  interesting  reference  to  a  further  group,  to  which Torquatus is made to declare his allegiance:
Others again, with whom I too am in agreement, believe that we should not be too self-confident about our case. After all, a great many philosophers  give  all  manner  of  grounds  for   not  counting  pleasure  amongst goods nor pain amongst evils. Accordingly, we think one should treat the question of pleasure and pain with a clear line of reasoning, in-depth discussion, and carefully considered arguments. 
Perhaps  these  Epicureans  are  not  disagreeing  with  Epicurus  about  the self-evidence  of  the  goodness  of  pleasure  and  badness  of  pain,  but 26 See Brunschwig 1986, with the doubts of Sedley 1996. 
27 For further discussion see Brunschwig 1986, 122-3.  Prole-psis  as criterion of truth: D.L. x.31. 
Empirical basis: D.L.x.33. A passage which does - problematically - treat  prole-pseis  as innate: Cic.  ND  i.43-4. Rebuttal of criticism: Cic.  Fin. ii.36-7. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
p l e a s u r e   a s   t h e   g o a l
651
only questioning  its  adequacy  as  a  defence  in  philosophical  debate.28
Unfortunately Cicero gives no example of the lines of thought they had in mind. But traces of a discussion of the correct interpretation of Epicurus'
assertion that his fundamental thesis needs no proof survive in a papyrus text of Demetrius Laco (second century bc). Its poor state of preservation makes  reconstruction  of  the  course  of  Demetrius'  argument  a  matter largely for conjecture. But the very existence of such reasoning deserves attention,  and  confirms  Cicero's  story  of  developments  in  attitudes  to Epicurus' position adopted by later Epicureans.29
v Pleasure as the goal
Our feelings and sensations tell us that pleasure is good and pain bad. But how do we know that the pleasure which we should accordingly seek as our  goal  in  life  is  freedom  from  physical  pain  and  mental  disturbance? 
Epicurus does not appear to have claimed that that too was evident, disclosed  immediately  by  the  senses.  What  is  required  for  proper  understanding of the goal is thought: not proof, but reflection on the nature of desire: 'surely directed consideration' of our desires ( Ep. Men. 128); 'sober reasoning  searching  out  the  causes  of  every  choice  and  avoidance,  and driving out the opinions through which enormous tumult takes possession of our souls' ( Ep. Men. 132). We have seen that the basis of this reflection must be supplied by natural philosophy, since study of the nature and species  of  desire  belongs  to  inquiry  into  human  nature.  But  Epicurus makes it mostly the job of practical wisdom ( phrone-sis), and goes so far as to say that its importance makes it a more precious thing even than philosophy ( Ep. Men.  132). There is an analogy here with our knowledge of the physical world. Sense perception is the criterion of truth: everything it tells us is true, and there is no other basis for knowledge of the world. But for the interpretation of its reports, and for understanding why we must posit as the fundamental realities atoms and void, even though they are not  apparent  to  the  senses,  we  must  employ  reason,  albeit  under  the methodological  constraints  of   epimarture-sis  and   ouk  antimarture-sis imposed by application of the criterion.30
Epicurus explains that the result of the reflection he enjoins will be to discover that every choice we make, whether positive or negative, is really 28 Cf. Asmis 1984, 36-9. 
29 Demetrius of Laconia,  PHerc. 1012, col. 51-2; cf. Puglia 1980 and 1988, 272-80. If Sedley 1989a is correct, Demetrius will have regarded his contribution as exegesis of Epicurus, not innovation. 
30 For the analogy cf. Gosling and Taylor 1982, 405. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
652
e p i c u r e a n   e t h i c s
motivated by concern for health of the body and tranquillity of soul.31 Of course, we sometimes  think  that we want something di◊erent from this; and even when we recognize that these are our real objects, we often have mistaken ideas of how to achieve them. Hence the need to 'drive out opinions'. More will be said about this and about Epicurus' analysis of desire in the next section. For the moment we must focus on the doctrine that constitutes its outcome, which is stated as follows:
It is for the sake of this that we do all things: so that we may not be in pain nor su◊er disturbance. When once we have this come about, all the storm of the soul abates, seeing that the living creature cannot then go as if in search of something it lacks, or of anything else by which the good of the soul and the body will be fulfilled. For it is then that we have need of pleasure, when we are in pain because of the absence of pleasure. When we are not in pain, we no longer have the need for pleasure. (Epic.  Ep. 
 Men. 128)
With the image of the storm in the soul Epicurus takes up a simile used also  by  the  Cyrenaics.32 As  was  indicated  in  an  earlier  chapter,33 the grandson  of  Aristippus  the  Socratic,  the  younger  Aristippus,  also  compared pain with a rough sea. But he worked out the comparison further: pleasure  is  the  sea  with  a  gentle  swell,  and  there  is  a  middle  condition between  pleasure  and  pain  which  is  equivalent  to  a  dead  calm  (Eus.  PE
xiv.18.31-2 ⫽  SSR  iv b 5).  To  the  Cyrenaics'  way  of  thinking,  Epicurus simply conflates two conditions - pleasure and absence of pain - which need to be kept distinct (cf. e.g. D.L. ii.89-90, x.136), as of course Plato had insisted before them:  Rep. 583c-584a,  Phlb. 42c-44a. The charge that in making the conflation he flouts common usage and the facts of nature is pressed for pages on end in the critique of Epicurean ethics contained in Book ii of Cicero's  De Finibus, where Epicurus is taken as e◊ectively introducing   absence  of  pain  as  his  own  private  meaning  for  'pleasure'  ( Fin. 
ii.6 -19). The critique continues with complaints of self-contradiction: in his account of the  summum bonum  as freedom from pain and disturbance, Epicurus says that he cannot conceive of the good except in terms of sensory pleasures, that is, precisely the kinds of pleasure recognized as such by Aristippus  ( Fin.  ii.20-30);  the  cradle  argument  is intended  to  support Epicurus'  account  of  the   summum  bonum  as  'katastematic'  pleasure,  but the  pleasures  enjoyed  by  new-born  animals  have  to  be  construed  as
'kinetic' ( Fin. ii.31-2).34
31 Thus in modern parlance he propounds a version of psychological hedonism; cf. Striker 1993, 6 n. 1. 
32 The image is discussed in Clay 1972. 
33 See p. 255 above. 
34 On the pleasures of infants see e.g. Rist 1972, 103-6; Brunschwig 1986, 126-8. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
p l e a s u r e   a s   t h e   g o a l
653
The suggestion that he simply collapses the idea of pleasure into that of absence  of  pain  would  have  been  firmly  rejected  by  Epicurus.  It  is  certainly the Epicurean view that if we are conscious of how we are feeling at all, we are always aware either of pleasure or of pain ( Fin. i.38). But the formula 'in pain because of the absence of pleasure' ( Ep. Men. 128, quoted above) runs the danger of tautology if there is no more to pleasure than absence of pain. Moreover the delight we feel in  aponia  and  ataraxia  really does satisfy requirements which might reasonably be expected to be met by  something  counting  as  a  pleasure.  And  from  this  the  Epicureans devised an argument for reckoning  aponia  and  ataraxia  as pleasures themselves, even though they do not meet those same requirements:
The pleasure we pursue is not just that which by a certain attractiveness moves our physical being, and is perceived by the senses with a particular kind of gratification. We hold the greatest pleasure to be that which is perceived  once  all  pain  has  been  removed.  For  when  we  have  pain removed  from  us,  we  delight  in  that  very  emancipation  and  in  the absence of all distress. But everything in which we delight is a pleasure, just as everything which upsets us is a pain. So the complete removal of pain has rightly been named pleasure. (Cic.  Fin. i.37) The pleasure which is the  summum bonum  is not the mere negation of a sensory state. It consists in a perception accompanied by a kind of delight or enjoyment, namely one that has the absence of pain or distress and emancipation from them as its intentional object. But absence of pain would not give us this delight unless it were itself pleasurable.35
Although the 'greatest pleasure' identified in this text is di◊erent from the physical pleasures of sensory gratification, it is intimately connected with them. A verbatim extract from Epicurus'  On the Goal  translated by Cicero in the  Tusculan Disputations  indicates one way in which this is so:36
For my part I cannot conceive of the good [i.e. the  summum bonum] if I take away the pleasures felt in taste and sexual experience and listening to music, and those which beauty causes the eyes to experience as agreeable motions, and any other pleasures produced in a person as a whole  via any of the senses. It certainly cannot be said that joy of the mind is the only thing that is good. For as I understand it, the mind will experience 35 For fuller discussion of this argument to prove  aponia  and  ataraxia  pleasures see Purinton 1993, 283-7. But his interpretation di◊ers from that given here, which construes as pleasures both the delight we feel and the absence of pain or anxiety which causes delight, although pleasures in di◊erent senses (cf. D.L. x.136 quoted below). 
36 Fuller  discussion  of  this  important  text  e.g.  in  Rist  1972,  108-9,  Gosling  and  Taylor  1982, 367-73, Purinton 1993, 309-14 (with 298-9). Cf. Lucr. ii.17-19, Phld.  De Epicuro,  PHerc. 1232, col. 18 Tepedino (cf. Tepedino Guerra 1987, 85-8 and 1994, 24). 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
654
e p i c u r e a n   e t h i c s
joy when it has expectation of all the things I just mentioned - i.e. when it  expects  that  one's  physical  being  will  have  those  pleasures  without pain. (Cic.  Tusc.  iii.41)
Freedom from pain is in the broadest terms the focus of the joy or delight which  strictly  speaking  constitutes  the   summum  bonum.  But  unlike  the body, which is tied to the present, the mind also looks forward and back, and many of its pleasures will be those of memory and especially of expectation. This is not the only way in which sensory pleasures are accommodated within Epicurus' conception of the greatest pleasure. As  KD  18 puts it, 'in the flesh pleasure is not increased when once pain due to need has been removed, but is only varied'. We cannot improve on the enjoyment we take in having slaked our thirst with water (so e.g.  Ep. Men. 131), but sensory  pleasures  associated  with  natural  desire  (e.g.  the  pleasure  of drinking an exquisite dessert wine) will if wished introduce some variety into it. 
As we have seen, the anti-Epicurean second book of  De Finibus  makes polemical  use  of  a  distinction  Epicurus  apparently  invented  between kinetic ( en kine-sei, kata kine-sin; Latin  in motu) and  katastematic (Latin  in stabilitate,  stabiles)  pleasures  ( Fin.  ii.31-2;  cf.  also  ii.9-10,  16,  75).  Modern scholarship finds the distinction obscure.37 It does not occur in the  Letter to Menoeceus  or the  Kuriai Doxai; and interpretation of the one quotation from Epicurus' own writings which appears to exploit it is controverted. 
There  is  particular  disagreement  on  the  range  of  pleasures  which  fall within  the  kinetic  class,  and  over  the  philosophical  provenance  of  the actual idea of a kinetic pleasure. Are we to think primarily of the discussions in Plato and Aristotle of whether there are pleasures of process, e.g. 
of the restoration of the body from conditions of deprivation to its natural state?38 Or  does  Epicurus  borrow  the  notion  of  kinetic  pleasure  from Aristippus, who is reported to have insisted that both pleasure and pain are 'motions' (D.L. ii.86, 89;  SSR  iv b 5)?39
The ancient sources consistently represent Cyrenaic hedonism as the intellectual context appropriate to understanding Epicurus' distinction. 
He is said to have derived the starting points for his exposition of the goal of life from the Cyrenaics ( SSR  iv a 173). The suggestion is that he agreed with Aristippus in recognizing a pleasure 'in motion', but argued that this was only one sort of pleasure, to be contrasted with another not acknowl-37 It  is  the  subject  of  a  large  literature;  see  e.g.  Diano  1935,  Merlan  1960,  Rist  1972,  App.  D, Gosling and Taylor 1982, ch. 19, Purinton 1993. 
38 See e.g. Gosling and Taylor 1982, 373-5. 
39 So e.g. Purinton 1993, 304-5. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
p l e a s u r e   a s   t h e   g o a l
655
edged  by  the  Cyrenaics,  namely  the  so-called  katastematic  pleasures  of aponia  and  ataraxia (D.L. x.136). The Cyrenaics in turn are said to have disagreed with Epicurus' claim that the removal of pain is a pleasure (D.L. 
ii.89). Although there is evidence of an attempt to charge Epicurus with plagiarizing Aristippus' teaching (D.L. x.4), this is not the general theme of the reports; and it is after all probable that the ideas of two contemporary schools of hedonists should owe more to debate with each other than to study of texts written in an earlier period. Moreover, the pleasures of
'variation' which Cicero firmly identifies as kinetic ( Fin. ii.10) clearly have nothing to do with processes of restoration; nor do those pleasures of the senses without which Epicurus says he cannot conceive the good, e.g. the pleasant motions which beauty causes the eyes to experience (Us. 67). In criticizing the Epicureans Plutarch takes it for granted that their conception of sensory pleasure is primarily of a 'smooth and gentle motion', i.e. 
precisely  as  it  is  defined  by  the  Cyrenaics  -  although  he  plainly  has Epicurean, not Cyrenaic, texts in mind (Plu.  Non Posse  1087e,  Col. 1122e). 
In comparison with the numerous passages which speak of the pleasures  of  the  senses  as  gentle  and  agreeable  motions,  there  are  very  few which  focus  on  pleasures  like  slaking  one's  thirst  or  filling  the  belly, despite  the  importance  Epicurus  attached  to  the  cry  of  the  flesh  to  be relieved of hunger and thirst and cold ( Sent. Vat. 33). The emphasis is usually on the stable condition of  aponia  in the body which is the outcome of the process. Cicero once claims that on the Epicurean account the pleasure of quenching thirst is kinetic (Cic.  Fin. ii.9). But this is an isolated text whose interpretation is fiercely contested. It is not easy to reconcile with the other evidence, including the explanation of kinetic pleasure as variation Cicero goes on at once to give ( Fin. ii.10).40 On the other hand, in a context which alludes to pleasures of the stomach Plutarch appears to cite an Epicurean description of pleasure as: 'a delightful motion through the flesh which is transmitted upward, resulting in a particular pleasure and joy of the soul' (Plu.  Non Posse  1087b). This looks like an attempt on the part of the Epicureans to formulate an account of kinetic pleasure which will  cover  both  gentle  variations  of   aponia  and  the  satisfaction  of  acute bodily  needs.  Perhaps  Epicurus  himself  never  indicated  how  he  would classify pleasures of restoration of the body's natural state: understandably,  if  the  main  thrust  of  the  distinction  between  kinetic  and  katastematic pleasures was to insist that there is another form of pleasure beside kinetic pleasure understood as Aristippus had defined it. 
40 Cf. e.g. Long and Sedley 1987, ii.125 against Diano 1935, 260◊. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
656
e p i c u r e a n   e t h i c s
Our  best  clue  to  how  that  other  kind  of  pleasure  was  conceived  by Epicurus is supplied by another extract from  On the Goal  cited by ancient authors:
The well-balanced state ( kataste-ma) of the flesh and reliable expectation about it [sc. the flesh] hold the greatest and most secure joy for those who are capable of an appraisal. (Plu.  Non Posse  1089d) If we apply the principle enunciated at  Fin. i.37 (see p. 653 above), according to which everything that gives us joy is a pleasure, it will follow that this well-balanced state of the body is itself a pleasure: indeed, the greatest pleasure, since it gives the greatest joy. The specification of such pleasure as  katastematic  is  accordingly  to  be  understood  as  echoing  the  word
' kataste-ma', as it is employed in the proposition just quoted. It will emphasize that the hallmark of this kind of pleasure is simply that it is a stable condition, as Cicero's translations  stabilis  and  in stabilitate  show he appreciated. When the body is in such a  kataste-ma, it is entirely free of pain: hence the designation of  aponia  as katastematic pleasure. We must suppose that  ataraxia, the katastematic pleasure of the soul, is achieved when it attains an analogous condition of stable psychic harmony.41
What matters most for Epicurean ethics in the end is not katastematic pleasure itself, but the joy and delight it gives us. For joy and delight are forms of awareness, or  pathe-, as katastematic pleasure is not. Presumably it is this that leads Epicurus to make them  kinetic  pleasures, as in the contrast he draws in a famous fragment of  On Choices:42
Freedom from disturbance and absence of pain are katastematic pleasures; but joy and delight are regarded as kinetic activities. (D.L. x.136) From  one  point  of  view,  therefore,  Epicurus'  disagreement  with Aristippus is much less than he makes it appear, since the greatest pleasure remains strictly speaking a kinetic pleasure, namely our delight in  aponia and   ataraxia.43 The  Cyrenaics  certainly  acknowledged  the  existence  of 41 Epicurus' conceptions of a  kataste-ma  and of katastematic pleasure may well derive somehow or other from the idea found in the Aristotelian corpus ( EN  1153a 2-6,  MM  1205b20◊.) that one of the kinds of pleasure we feel occurs when our nature is  settled or composed (φυ!σεω  καθεστ-ηκυι!α): Aristotle has in mind pleasures of sight and hearing. Epicurus' innovation is to make the settled state of our nature  itself  a pleasure, which may then be varied by such 'kinetic' pleasures. Others see the origin of Epicurus' kinetic pleasures in Aristotle's contrasted type of pleasure - the pleasure connected with the  replenishment  of our nature (φυ!σεω καθισταµε!νη): so e.g.  Gosling  and  Taylor  1982,  373-5.  The  epithet  'well-balanced'  (ευ0σταθε!)  is  probably inspired by its use in defining the ideal condition of the soul in Democritus' ethics (D.L. ix.45; DK 68 b 191). 
42 'Activities' translates the reading ε0νε!ργειαι adopted by Long and Sedley 1987, ii.124-5. 
43 Compare Aristotle's di◊erentiation in  EN  x of the pleasure we take in an activity from the activity itself - as its perfection or 'bloom' ( EN  1174b2-1175a3). 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
d e s i r e   a n d   t h e   l i m i t s   o f   l i f e 657
mental as well as bodily pleasures (D.L. ii.89-90). So the issue could be construed  as  narrowing  to  the  question  whether  physical  (so  the Cyrenaics) or mental pleasures (so the Epicureans) are greater, which is indeed  the  way  Diogenes  Laertius  eventually  articulates  it  (x.137),  perhaps reflecting debate on the point between the two schools (cf. ii.90). 
Why,  then,  did  Epicurus  insist  on  the  odd  notion  of  a  katastematic pleasure, and on standardly expressing his view of the good in negative terms, as the absence of pain or disturbance? These otherwise puzzling decisions have the great merit of indicating clearly where the centre of gravity  of  Epicurean  hedonism  is  located,  and  where  its  fundamental philosophical  allegiances  lie.  Epicurus  plainly  accepts  that  hedonism constitutes  the  correct  framework  within  which  a  conception  of  the good life must be worked out. And the pleasures and pains of the body remain its focus, as his interpreters and critics alike never tire of emphasizing. But hedonism has to be adapted from its crude Cyrenaic form to accommodate  an  outlook  hospitable  to  the  imperturbable  self-su√ciency of the Pyrrhonian wise man and to Democritus' emphasis on balance and aversion to 'large motions' in the soul - and as if by anticipation  to  Epicurus'  own  certainty  that  the  pleasures  of  conversation  he recalled  on  his  deathbed  outweighed  excruciating  physical  pain  (D.L. 
x.22).44 The  superficial  unobviousness  of  the  attractions  of   aponia  and ataraxia  serves to reinforce Epicurus' assurance that only sober reasoning about the nature of desire will bring us to appreciate that stability is what we really want. 
vi Desire and the limits of life
Epicurus' analysis of desires turns on an assessment of human nature and its  needs.  This  emerges  from  the  brief  summary  given  in  the   Letter  to Menoeceus:
We must reckon that some desires are natural and others empty, and of the natural some are necessary, others natural only; but of the necessary some  are  necessary  for  happiness,  others  for  the  body's  freedom  from disturbance, and others for life itself. (Epic.  Ep. Men. 127) To judge from the writings of Plato and Aristotle distinctions between pleasures  or  desires  that  are  natural  and  those  that  are  not,  or  again between necessary and non-necessary ones, were commonplace in Greek 44 For Pyrrho see e.g. D.L. ix.63-5, where reference is made to Epicurus' admiration for him; also pp. 640-1 above. The principal relevant Democritean text is DK 68 b191. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
658
e p i c u r e a n   e t h i c s
philosophy.45 The  two  distinctions  were  generally  taken  as  giving  an identical outcome: the fundamental forms of hunger, thirst, sexual and other physical appetites were seen as having the same basis, setting them apart from all other desires.46 Epicurus registered dissent from this common assessment on a number of counts. Thus on his view desire for food and clothing is necessary as well as natural, desire for sex merely natural (Usener  456).  More  importantly,  whereas  the  philosophical  tradition restricted  natural  or  necessary  desires  to  the  bodily  appetites,  and regarded the corresponding forms of satisfaction as the lowest kinds of pleasure, Epicurus regards natural desires as the  only  ones a prudent person will seek habitually to satisfy ( Ep. Men. 129-32). And while these of course  include  bodily  appetites  as  pre-eminent  examples,  we  may  infer that he counts the wish for  ataraxia  as natural and necessary too. This is indicated by the correction to the undi◊erentiated use of 'necessary' he issues in spelling out the various things necessary desires may be necessary for, and particularly in distinguishing the genus 'necessary for happiness'  from  the  species  'necessary  for  the  body's  freedom  from disturbance'.47 The tradition would have regarded the desire for happiness, when properly conceived, as altogether other and better than a natural appetite. 
If  Epicurus  makes  the  importance  of  satisfying  bodily  appetites  so much  greater  than  earlier  philosophy  would  have  acknowledged,  how does he avoid the commitment to a profligate lifestyle with which his critics  charged  him?  The  answer  has  to  turn  on  what  the  object  of  bodily desires is taken to be. A much quoted maxim indicates what this is in the cases Epicurus regards as fundamental for ethics:
The flesh cries out not to be hungry, not to be thirsty, not to be cold. If someone is in these states and expects to remain so, he would rival even Zeus in happiness. ( Sent.Vat. 33)
The basic bodily desire is for freedom from pain or discomfort: no recipe here for self-indulgence. We might agree, but ask: is it not natural after 45 Cf. Plato  Rep. 558d-559c (necessary vs. non-necessary); Arist.  EN  1118b8-27 (natural vs. non-natural). 
46 For example Plato makes the desire to eat (i) 'up to the point of health and good condition' or (ii) food itself (559a11-b1) necessary, but (i´) that which goes beyond that point or (ii´) seeks foods of particular sorts non-necessary. Aristotle's division between natural and non-natural desires exploits criterion (ii) vs. (ii´); and the scholium on  EN  1118b8 [⫽ Us. 456] suggests that it may have been used by Epicurus to di◊erentiate natural and necessary desires from those that are neither natural nor necessary. Most of our other evidence indicates that criterion (i) vs. (i´) was in Epicurus' eyes more fundamental for determining which desires are necessary. See further Annas 1993a, 188-20 0. 
47 See further Hossenfelder 1991a, 89-90. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
d e s i r e   a n d   t h e   l i m i t s   o f   l i f e 659
satisfying hunger to want to eat either more (as the glutton does) or more interestingly (like the gourmet)? And if it is, has Epicurus su√cient argument  against  self-indulgence? 
At this point we are disadvantaged by the absence in the sources of any explanation of how the Epicureans conceived and defended their conception of nature as it is invoked in this context. What the evidence does indicate  is  a  strong  appeal  to  a  principle  of  natural  equilibrium,  namely between what nature - i.e. the natural world at large - provides and what it is natural for us to want:
The wealth demanded by nature [sc. human nature] both has its bounds and is easy to procure; but that demanded by empty opinions goes o◊
into infinity. ( KD  15)
One aphorism is a prayer of thanksgiving to Nature:
Thanks  be  to  blessed  Nature,  because  she  has  made  what  is  necessary easy to procure, but what is hard to procure not necessary. (Stob.  Flor. 
xvii.23)
This principle of equilibrium is used by Epicureanism as a working criterion to distinguish what are natural desires from what are not. Thus bread and water are easy to come by, but a luxurious diet, whether the emphasis is on quantity or variety, is not ( Ep. Men. 130-2).48 Indeed the desire for more will be insatiable if unchecked:
Insatiable is not the stomach, as the many say, but false opinion about the stomach's boundless need to be filled. ( Sent.Vat. 59)
The objects of sexual appetite are not di√cult to attain - nor to do without:  which  indicates  that  such  desire  is  natural  but  not  necessary  (Cic. 
 Tusc.  v.93; Plu.  De bruta ratione uti  989b [⫽Usener 456]). We might think this view of sex was contradicted by experience of the pangs of love. But Epicurus explains how phenomena of this sort are to be understood: Wherever intense seriousness is present in those natural desires which do not lead to pain if they are unfulfilled, these come about because of empty opinion; and it is not because of their own nature that they are not relaxed, but because of the empty opinion of the person. ( KD  30) What causes stress is not failure to satisfy sexual appetite, but the human beliefs which infect such appetites, whether satisfied or not, with unnatural  intensity:  for  example  the  belief  that  my  happiness  depends  on 48 The scholium on  KD  29 is probably therefore incorrect when it makes the desire for pleasures of variety, e.g. expensive foods, natural (although not necessary). 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
660
e p i c u r e a n   e t h i c s
reciprocation of a◊ection by the person I am in love with, which is an
'empty opinion' because it embodies a false conception of happiness and of  how  to  achieve  it.49 This  is  presumably  the  general  fault  that  runs through all unnatural desire. It is perhaps significant that  KD  30 attributes  it  to  the  person  or  human  being  ( anthro-pos).  The  animal  ( zo-ion) within us will be content with provision for our natural needs (cf.  Ep. 
 Men. 128). 
Epicurus holds that grasp of the principle of natural equilibrium will liberate us from unnatural desire:
He  who  knows  the  limits  of  life  knows  how  easy  it  is  to  procure  that which removes pain due to need and that which makes the whole of life complete. So he does not want any dealings involving competition. ( KD
21)
Understanding of the principle is here presented as a function of knowledge of the limits of life in general, i.e. of the parameters laid down by the axioms of the  Tetrapharmakos ( KD  20; cf. 1-4). The use of the term 'limits'
reminds us that while the things which are the object of natural desire are easily procured, they are also bounded ( KD  15), or as we might more readily say, not boundless. Epicurus develops this cardinal thesis in many sayings devoted to exposition of the doctrine of the limits ( perata) or bounds ( horoi) of the extent of pleasure, in the first instance in  KD  3: The  bound  of  the  magnitude  of  pleasures  is  the  removal  of  all  pain. 
Wherever pleasure is present, as long as it is there, pain or distress or their combination is absent. 
On other occasions he speaks of 'the goal and limit of the flesh' ( KD  20), and says that 'in the flesh pleasure is not increased when once the pain due to want is removed' ( KD  18). This has the e◊ect of locating the question of magnitude of physical pleasures firmly within the context of the natural needs of the body: its desire not to be cold or hungry or thirsty. 
Given that account of bodily appetite, the only obvious basis for measuring quantity of bodily pleasure is assessment of the degree of satisfaction of bodily need.50 The luxury of the rich man's table may look to the  mind 49 See further Nussbaum 1994, ch. 5. As she notes (Nussbaum 1986, 35 n. 5) Lucretius supplies much  of  our  evidence  for  the  contrast  between  natural  sexual  desire  and   ero-s,  defined  by Epicurus  as  'an  intense  desire  for  intercourse,  along  with  madness  and  anguish'  (Us. 483). 
Annas 1993a, 193 n. 29, proposes that natural sexual desire is not merely natural but necessary. 
But necessary for what? Does the flesh here cry out not to be . . .? What pain do we su◊er if sexual desire goes unsatisfied? 
50 It does not follow that satisfaction of desire is simply what a pleasure is for the Epicureans (the theory of Mitsis 1988a, ch. 1). 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
d e s i r e   a n d   t h e   l i m i t s   o f   l i f e 661
as though it o◊ers greater pleasures than the poor man's bread and water, but for the flesh - or from the point of view of the flesh - there can be nothing  more  pleasurable than having its cry for an end to misery fully answered: anything further can - again, from its point of view - only be variation,  i.e.  qualitative  di◊erentiation.  And  as  will  by  now  be  abun-dantly clear, it is the perspective of the flesh and its natural and necessary desires which should dominate our pursuit of the good. Once we abandon it, we run the risk of succumbing to false ideas of how happiness can be achieved. 
Nature's  prescription  for  happiness  is  e◊ectively  a  recipe  for  self-su√ciency. Enjoyment of the pleasures of luxury is not prohibited: but we must be liberated from craving for them and so from fear of being unable to  have  them  ( Ep.  Men.  131).  Self-su√ciency  is  to  be  regarded  not  as  a regime of self-denial, but as freedom ( Sent. Vat. 77) and as riches: He who follows nature and not empty opinions is self-su√cient in all things.  For  relative  to  what  is  su√cient  for  nature  every  possession  is riches, but relative to unbounded desires even the greatest riches are not riches but poverty.51 (Usener 202)
Although satisfaction of the natural and necessary desires of the flesh must be our aim, we need a broader perspective than the flesh can itself supply if we are to be e◊ective in this pursuit of what Epicurus often calls
'the goal of nature'. Bodily sensation and desire are a matter of what we feel  now: 'the flesh is storm-tossed only in the present' (D.L. x.137). It is the mind which is equipped to plan for an optimal balance of pleasure and pain, by virtue of its grasp of time (cf. D.L. x.137, Cic.  Fin. i.55) and its understanding of the limits of pain as well as pleasure:
Pain does not last continuously in the flesh: when acute it is there for a very short time, while the pain which just exceeds the pleasure in the flesh does not persist for many days. Chronic illnesses contain a predominance of pleasure in the flesh over pain. ( KD  4)
Here Epicurus is thinking primarily of the unavoidable pains of illness. 
But as well as assuaging anxiety about these and making room for realistic pleasures of anticipation, the knowledge enshrined in  KD  4 makes it rational to undergo voluntarily such things as surgery or painful exercise in order to enjoy the pleasures of a healthy body. Epicurus accordingly advocates employment of a hedonistic calculus, specified in terms strikingly reminiscent of Plato's  Protagoras:
51 The end of this text is lacunose. Bignone's conjecture πλου4το α0λλα' πενι!α is translated here. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
662
e p i c u r e a n   e t h i c s
We do not choose every pleasure, but there are times when we pass over many pleasures, when their outcome is a greater quantity of discomfort for us. And we regard many pains as better than pleasures, when endurance of the pains over a long period is followed by greater pleasure for us.  Every  pleasure,  then,  because  of  its  natural  a√nity,  is  something good, yet not every pleasure is choiceworthy: just as every pain is something  bad,  but  not  every  pain  is  always  of  a  nature  to  be  avoided. 
However, it is appropriate to judge all these things by comparative measurement and by survey of advantages and disadvantages. For at certain times we treat the good as bad and conversely the bad as good. ( Ep. Men. 
129-30)
One of Epicurus' most di√cult sayings contrasts the attitude to death the mind should adopt with one representing somehow or other the perspective of the flesh:
The flesh takes the limits of pleasure as unlimited, and unlimited time brings it [sc. unlimited pleasure] about. But the mind, making its appraisal of the goal and limit of the flesh, and dispersing fears about the time to  come,  brings  about  the  complete  life,  and  we  no  longer  need  the unlimited time [sc. demanded by the flesh]. It neither shuns pleasure nor
-  when  circumstances  bring  about  our  departure  from  life  -  does  it approach the end supposing it is in any way falling short of the best life. 
( KD  20)
Since the flesh is capable only of present sensation, and naturally desires only to be free from immediate pain, Epicurus cannot mean that the flesh actually perceives pleasure as unlimited or wants it to be unlimited: that would be to assimilate its perspective to that of empty opinion. He must be arguing in counterfactual terms: if  per impossibile  the flesh were to be able to look into the future, what would be its recipe for a  life  in which fulfilment is achieved? It could conceive such fulfilment only in terms of an infinite  sequence  of  pleasures.  But  an  infinite  sequence  of  pleasures  is obviously a human impossibility, since it would require infinite time. So not merely does the perspective of the flesh as a matter of fact give no basis for  a  conception  of  the  good  or  complete  life.  Even  if  we  imagined  it enriched with a grasp of time, it could still yield no feasible conception of a happy life. To achieve that we need to employ our minds, first to understand what the limits of pleasure in the flesh really are (cf.  KD  3), and then to appreciate the nature of death (cf.  KD  2). By 'taking away the yearning for immortality' ( Ep. Men. 124) this will bring us freedom from anxiety ( ataraxia). And the achievement of  ataraxia  is all someone needs to register his life as complete, i.e. as needing nothing further to make it ideal. The Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
d e s i r e   a n d   t h e   l i m i t s   o f   l i f e 663
person who is in this state of mind will neither ascetically abstain from further  pleasure,  but  nor  if  death  is  upon  him  will  he  feel  deprived  of something which might have made his life better. 
It is sometimes suggested that Epicurus' treatment of fear of death is too narrowly focused.52 The argument that death is nothing to us is based on the thesis that it is not bad for us when present, because only pain is bad and a dead person can feel nothing at all ( Ep. Men. 124). If we accept and thoroughly digest this thesis we shall lose our fear, for example, of what may happen to our dead bodies (Lucr. iii.870-93), or of punishment in an underworld (Lucr. iii.966-1023) - and also the distress of anticipation itself, which is now deprived of its foundation:
So one who says he fears death, not because it will hurt when it is here, but because it hurts when it is to be, talks nonsense: what causes no distress  when  it  is  present  hurts  in  the  expectation  only  on  account  of empty opinion. (Epic.  Ep. Men. 125)
But what if our fear at the thought of death is caused not by apprehension that  something  bad  will  or  may  befall  us,  but  by  belief  that  we  will  be deprived of good things we  might  have enjoyed or gone on enjoying (cf. 
Plu.  Non Posse  1106a-1107c)? Such a belief would be particularly upsetting if the goods in question were conceived as forms of pleasure or enjoyment needed to make our lives in some important sense complete. A fear of this kind is not adequately dealt with by the argument that in death we  actually experience nothing at all. 
We know that Lucretius thought about such cases:53
'No  more  for  you  the  welcome  of  a  joyful  home  and  a  good  wife.  No more will your children run to snatch the first kiss, and move your heart with unspoken delight. No more will you be able to protect the success of your a◊airs and your dependants. Unhappy man', they say, 'robbed by a single hateful day of all those rewards of life.' (Lucr. iii.894-9) A saying such as  KD  20 suggests that Epicurus himself had also reflected on them, even if he does not engage with the problem they present in his principal  argument  against  fear  of  death.  His  response  seems  to  have involved a further application of the notion of limits of pleasure. For 'the appraisal  of  the  goal  and  limit  of  the  flesh'  and  the  treatment  of  fears which according to  KD  20 (cf. also  KD  21) bring about the complete life are said in  KD  18 to produce the limit of pleasure in the  mind. The surviving 52 Epicurean views on death have been much discussed. See e.g. Furley 1986, Rosenbaum 1986, 1990, Annas 1993a, 342-50, Nussbaum 1994, ch. 6. 
53 As did Philodemus: see  On Death  iv, col. 12.2-14.14. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
664
e p i c u r e a n   e t h i c s
evidence does not explicate this version of the limit idea further. But very likely Epicurus regarded the basic form of the mind's natural desire for happiness as analogous with the body's: the mind, we might say, cries out not to be anxious or distressed, particularly by pain and fear. Now philosophy shows that nature is such as to make pain tolerable and fear groundless.  And  it  thus  produces  the  limit  of  mental  pleasure.  That  limit  is accordingly conceived in distinctly Stoical terms. The flesh demands not to be in pain, but the mind is content if it  understands  that pain is tolerable and pleasure easy to procure.54
It is not hard to see why someone who has achieved such contentment should be thought to have a life that is complete. For he will be unru◊led whatever  circumstances  may  bring.  He  will  never  be  in  the  position  of being upset because he has failed in  some  project or is su◊ering bodily pain or enjoying few sensory pleasures. He may possess little that is good in his life, but there is no good he needs to supply contentment: his poverty is great wealth (cf.  Sent. Vat. 25). This flexibility means that his life lacks nothing to make it the best possible - ideally adapted to the constraints imposed by nature. Of course, it is conceivable that at some given moment within it he might have been enjoying more pleasure than in fact he is. But that does not show that his  life  might have been better: for a life is to be conceived from the ethical point of view not as a set or sum of moments or episodes, but as the implementation of a strategy for living.55
A  similar  argument  su√ces  for  the  analogous  likelihood  that  at  some moment  after his death  he might have enjoyed 'the rewards of life'. Well he might; but given Epicurus' conception of life as life-plan that does nothing to support the view that the life he actually lives is - in the sense we have defined - incomplete, nor  a fortiori  to make it rational for him to fear death on that account. 
Given this interpretation of what it is for life to be complete we can make sense of Epicurus' avowal of his own happiness as he lay in agony on his death-bed (D.L. x.22), or again of his dictum:
Unlimited time and limited time contain equal pleasure, if one measures its limits by reasoning. ( KD  19)
Here as in  KD  20 Epicurus must mean that the pleasure of contentment a◊orded by his perfect life strategy would not be increased if death were to be abolished and the time available for its implementation infinite: con-54 See Hossenfelder 1988 for the claim that Epicurus 'would have preferred to be a Stoic'. 
55 This conception of a life is the one involved in the notion of the choice of lives which is familiar in e.g. Aristotle as well as the subject of substantial treatises by leading Hellenistic philosophers, Epicurus included (D.L. x.28). 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
d e s i r e   a n d   t h e   l i m i t s   o f   l i f e 665
tentment  is  something  complete.  Cicero  asks  ( Fin.  ii.88)  how  having pleasure go on for a longer time can fail to be more desirable if the longer pain continues the more miserable we become (cf.  KD  4), and if the blessedness of the gods is associated with their imperishability (cf.  KD  1). This is to misunderstand Epicurus' view both of the duration of pleasure and of the complete life.56 Plutarch quotes from a letter in which he summons one  Anaxarchus  to  'continuous  pleasures'  ( Col.  1117a)  by  taking  up Epicureanism: this presupposes that sustained is preferable to brief pleasure. If one life contains more and longer episodes of pleasure than another does, there is an obvious sense in which it contains more pleasure and is ceteris paribus  more desirable.57
The complete life, then, is self-su√cient in that it is invulnerable to fortune. The powerlessness of chance is a constant topic of Epicurean literature. It is the theme which dominates the close of the  Letter to Menoeceus (D.L. x.133-5), and the subject of many Epicurean aphorisms. Metrodorus, a member of Epicurus' immediate circle, is credited with this saying: Fortune, I have made advance preparations against you, and barred the passage against every secret entry you try to make. We shall not give ourselves  up  as  captives  to  you  or  to  any  other  circumstance.  But  when necessity leads us out, we shall spit upon life ( to ze-n) and upon those who emptily plaster themselves in it, and we shall depart from it with a noble song of triumph, crying out at the end: 'We have had a good life (ευ: η/µι4ν
βεβι!ωσθαι).' ( Sent.Vat. 47)
And a briefer and quieter remark advises:
He  who  least  needs  tomorrow  will  go  with  greatest  pleasure  to  meet tomorrow. (Plu.  Tranq. An.  474c)
Such a person may not be in that 'well-balanced state of the flesh' accompanied by 'reliable expectation about it' which su√ces for  aponia  or for
'the greatest and most secure delight' in  aponia (Plu.  Non Posse  1089d). He may very well have fallen short of the limit of pleasure in the flesh, as does the man who moans and wails in the torture chamber, or as did Epicurus himself on his deathbed; and like them he may have nothing but death or
- so far as the body is concerned - more pain to look forward to. But happiness is possible in both cases (D.L. x.118, 22).58 That must be because 56 For di√culties scholars have found in Cicero's interpretation see e.g. Mitsis 1988a, 23-6. 
57 Hence the recommendation to adopt a hedonistic calculus: cf. Purinton 1993, 315-18. 
58 It seems to follow that for Epicurus the idea of the good or  summum bonum  is quite distinct from the notion of happiness: the good is a condition in which a person feels pleasure and no pain, whereas happiness is an attribute of his life as a whole, achievable even if the good is not attained (although if it  is  achieved he will rival Zeus in happiness,  Sent. Vat.  33; cf. D.L. x.121, where such happiness is contrasted with a lesser sort). 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
666
e p i c u r e a n   e t h i c s
the limit of pleasure in the  mind  can be attained by someone in such a position, enabling him to face the next day with greatest pleasure on account of the  ataraxia  brought by the operation of the  Tetrapharmakos. 
The Epicurean theory of desire and the limits of pleasure therefore has a shape very similar to the Stoic theory of appropriate action. Appropriate action will initially be focused on 'the primary things in accordance with nature', and above all on what promotes preservation of our animal constitution: compare Epicurus on the natural and necessary desires of the flesh. But perfect appropriate action requires a strategy of life ultimately indi◊erent, like  ataraxia, to the actual achievement of naturally desirable objectives. As with Epicureanism, the perfection of the strategy is what happiness and the best life depend upon. 
vii Virtue and friendship
The role of virtue in Epicurean ethics59 is very di◊erent from the place it holds in Stoicism. Cleanthes is said to have portrayed Epicurean hedonism as seating pleasure on a throne and surrounding her with servants -
the virtues. They urge prudence upon her, with the assurance: 'We virtues were born to be your slaves: we have no other business' (Cic.  Fin. ii.69). 
Epicurus himself is recorded as saying:
We should prize the honourable and the virtues and those sorts of things if they bring about pleasure. If they do not bring it about, we should bid them goodbye. (Athen.  Deipn. 546f )
Since pleasure is the good, the only legitimate function of virtues is to furnish means to that end; and according to Epicurus we shall attain it if and only if we practise the virtues. They derive from practical wisdom, which teaches that 'it is impossible to live pleasurably without living in accordance with practical wisdom or what is honourable or just' or vice versa. 
The reason is that 'the virtues have grown together with living pleasurably,  and  living  pleasurably  is  inseparable  from  them'  ( Ep.  Men.  132): which sounds like a closer relation than that of means to end. 
This  set  of  ideas  is  worked  out  in  more  detail  in  the  exposition  of Epicurean ethics presented in Book i of  De Finibus. Indeed, the topic of virtue looms much larger in the Epicurean books of  De Finibus  than in what survives of Epicurus' own writings, no doubt because this was a subject on which critics intent on portraying the Epicureans as subvert-59 For fuller discussion see Annas 1993a, 334-42. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
v i r t u e   a n d   f r i e n d s h i p
667
ers of morality had fastened, provoking response and counter-response. 
In any event, Torquatus is made to take each virtue in turn, and show how  properly  conceived  it  fits  within  the  ethical  scheme  explained  in sections 4-6 above ( Fin. i.42-54). He stresses for example how for the Epicureans wisdom enables us to distinguish empty from necessary and natural desires (i.43-5), while temperance supplies the tenacity needed to  apply  the  restraint  often  called  for  by  the  hedonistic  calculus:  it  is desirable  not  because  it  renounces  pleasures,  but  because  it  procures greater ones (i.47-8). The person who makes light of death and takes the view of pain recommended in the  Tetrapharmakos  is on that account (and on that account only) courageous (i.49). The case of courage deserves a further comment, since it suggests a reason for the shifting formulations Epicurus employs in describing the relation of the virtues to pleasure. 
Courage is worthwhile only if harnessed to the goal: the pleasure of  ata-
 raxia. But once we understand what is involved in  ataraxia, we will see that being courageous simply  is  facing pain and death without anxiety. 
Justice ( dikaiosune-) is the virtue on which - besides practical wisdom -
Epicurus apparently had most to say.60 It is logically dependent on the prior notion of justice as a principle of association ( to dikaion), explained in terms of the mutual advantage of neither harming nor being harmed, as implemented  in  a  social  contract.  Epicurus  calls  this   natural  justice because it is designed to satisfy our natural desire for security, which is evidently a form of the desire for  ataraxia. The associated virtue is simply the  disposition  to  abide  by  the  contract:  valuable  in  the  first  instance because of the security, benefiting the agent as much as others, to which the contract is directed. (No one who has absorbed the  Tetrapharmakos  is likely to want to harm others, but the contract is still a protection against less enlightened persons.) But  dikaiosune-  has an incidental value also. For the unjust man, who is ready to break the contract when he thinks he can get away with doing so, is never free from fear of discovery and punishment ( KD  31-5). So the just man has the further advantage of liberation from that kind of second-order anxiety:
The  just  person  is  maximally  unanxious,  the  unjust  full  of  enormous anxiety. ( KD  17)
Friendship is an even more important means to happiness than the virtues in general or justice in particular:
60 See Vander Waerdt 1987, Mitsis 1988a, ch. 2, Annas 1993a, 293-302. These discussions find Epicurus' view of justice more complex than is suggested by the account o◊ered here. Epicurus'
theory of the social contract is explained more fully below, pp. 0 0 0-0 0. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
668
e p i c u r e a n   e t h i c s
Of all the things wisdom prepares for the blessedness of life as a whole, much the greatest is the possession of friendship. ( KD  27) Its value lies in the first instance in the security it a◊ords, as a number of other sayings of Epicurus indicate, although the fullest account is once again  in  Book  i of   De  Finibus.  A  life  without  friends  risks  the  sorts  of assaults  from  other  people  that  one  cannot  easily  guard  against  -  and labours under the fear of such assault. Reason therefore advises the formation of friendships to reduce the risk and to increase confidence in the face of it. But a friendless life is also lonely, and so reason also has in view the pleasures which intimate association will generate: both enjoyment in the present and pleasures of anticipation ( Fin. i.66-7). 
The motivation of friendship is therefore self-interested; and while we may be concerned for our friends' pleasure as well as our own, it is the latter which is in itself more desirable to us ( Fin. i.66). At this point in the theory  Epicurus  seems  to  have  introduced  a  subtle  development  which later Epicureans found hard to explain or justify. It is a response to the thought that friendship will not work unless we love our friends as much as ourselves. The means to pleasure and security will be ine◊ective unless themselves  treated  as  an  end.61 So  although  our  friends'  pleasure  and wellbeing are not intrinsically as important to us as our own, we must love them as though they were. And the only way someone can do that is actually to feel the same towards his friend as he does towards himself ( Fin. 
i.67-8). This means being prepared to take risks and su◊er pains and even die on a friend's behalf. Hence the theory is made to yield reason to treat friends altruistically. Nor was this mere theory for Epicurus. Some of his most eloquent sayings about friendship have an emotional charge powered by something more than self-interest:
Friendship dances round the world announcing to us all that we should wake up and celebrate blessedness. ( Sent. Vat. 52)
A noble person is much occupied with wisdom and friendship: of these one is a mortal, the other an immortal good. ( Sent. Vat. 78) Moreover Epicurus' ideal of a community of friends, realized in the society of the Garden ( Fin. i.65), is described in terms which suggest full identification with the concerns of others ( KD  40, quoted below, p. 756). 
Epicurus'  attempt  to  extract  altruism  from  a  basically  self-interested 61 This thought is explicitly voiced in one of Epicurus' sayings, provided the text is emended: 'All friendship is choiceworthy (αι/ρετη!) for its own sake, but it takes its origin from benefit' ( Sent. 
 Vat. 23). The MS. text (α0ρετη!) is defended in Long 1986b, 305b, but Usener's conjecture makes for a much more intelligible thesis. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
p r a c t i c e
669
conception of friendship is a philosophical manoeuvre now familiar in the writings  of  modern  utilitarians.  His  version  of  it  seems  to  embody  a contradiction: I both do and do not care for my friend as much as I do for myself. Cicero records two di◊erent Epicurean attempts to negotiate the di√culties.  One  consisted  in  a  diachronic  solution.  Friendship  begins from a hedonistic motive, but that is replaced by altruistic concern if the friendship blossoms ( Fin. i.69). As Cicero comments, part two of this suggestion e◊ectively posits a moral basis for action not rooted in desire for pleasure or expectation of it - which threatens the whole foundation of Epicurean ethics ( Fin. ii.82). The other proposal was that the wise make a contract  to love their friends as much as themselves ( Fin. i.70). Although the utilitarian rationale of the contract is not spelled out, it is evidently assumed,  and  is  accordingly  an  idea  more  in  tune  with  the  basis  of Epicurean  ethics.  Moreover  it  gives  a  clearer  (if  not  more  plausible) account of the mechanism e◊ecting the altruistic turn. Yet the mechanism of  the  contract  looks  more  appropriate  for  what  Aristotle  would  call advantage  friendships  than  for  the  morally  impressive  friendships Epicurus seems to have in mind. And it does not remove the contradiction apparently inherent in his theory.62
viii Practice
Epicurus' work in four books entitled  On Lives (D.L. x.28) was evidently one of his most important ethical writings (cf. D.L. x.30). From the surviving information about it and from our knowledge of the genre we can infer that it advised the reader on what choices of life were and were not appropriate given that pleasure is the goal. Book i condemned participation in  politics,  Book ii the Cynic way of life (D.L. x.119). The sources attribute no major positive prescription to  On Lives. But there can be little doubt that it will have recommended the quiet life of 'withdrawal from the  many'  ( KD  14)  in  company  with  friends  ( KD  27-8):  'live  unknown'
( lathe  bio-sas:  cf.  Plu.  An  Recte  1128a-1129b)  was  one  of  the  Epicureans'
most notorious slogans, summing up in two words the way the key decision  should  go.  For  the  Epicureans'  advice  on  more  specific  practical choices we have to rely on a hotch-potch of evidence, and notably on a dis-organized  scissors-and-paste  compilation  reproduced  by  Diogenes Laertius (x.117-20). This includes the barest summaries of their stances 62 For further discussion see Rist 1972, ch. 7, 1980, Long 1986b, Mitsis 1988a, ch. 3, Annas 1993a, 236-44. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
670
e p i c u r e a n   e t h i c s
 inter alia  on sexual relations and marriage (negative),63 treatment of slaves (humane), behaviour at a symposium (restrained), music and poetry (the wise man will discuss but not write it), and making money (he will do so only from imparting his wisdom, when hard up). Presentation and selection of topics seem to be shaped at least partly by the doxographer's desire to set up an opposition between Stoic and Epicurean positions on issues which  were  to  become  standard  fare  for  Hellenistic  practical  ethics, although  it  is  clear  from  the  pages  of  Philodemus  that  Epicureans  did indeed attack, for example, the views of Diogenes of Babylon on music and the symposium. 
To judge from references and allusions in later classical literature, it was not detailed  praeceptio  of this kind which made a significant impact on the thought  and  behaviour  of  those  receptive  to  philosophy,  but  the  treatment  of  the  fundamentals  of  the  good  life  presented  in  the   Letter  to Menoeceus  and  in  collections  of  sayings  such  as  the   Key  Doctrines  or  the Vatican  Sentences.  We  would  have  guessed  that  the   Key  Doctrines  were designed to be memorized and absorbed into the intellectual and emotional  bloodstream.  The  guess  is  confirmed  by  the  specific  instructions given  at  the  beginning  and  end  of  each  of  Epicurus'  surviving  letters, enjoining the addressees to learn by heart the compendia of doctrines they contain, so as to achieve  ataraxia. The  Letter to Menoeceus  concludes with some words already quoted:
Practise these things and all that belongs with them to yourself night and day, and to someone like yourself, and you will never be disturbed either awake or in your dreams, but you will live like a god among men. For quite unlike a mortal animal is a man who lives among immortal goods. 
( Ep. Men. 135)
Practise  must  here  mean  simultaneously  verbal  repetition  and  the attempt to put Epicurus' teaching into e◊ect. The last page of the  Letter, for example, recapitulates the  Tetrapharmakos: Menoeceus will need to run through its main points in his mind over and over again, so that as they become  his  settled  convictions  they  will  drive  out  the  deeply  rooted empty opinions which fuel fear of pain and death.64
63 Cf.  Chilton  1960,  which  successfully  defends  the  emendation  και' µηδε' γαµη!σειν at  D.L. 
x.119. 
64 Cf. the remark ( Sent. Vat. 41): 'We must simultaneously laugh and philosophize and run our households and attend to the rest of our family a◊airs and never cease voicing the sayings of the true philosophy.' For further discussion of memorization in Epicurean theory and practice see Rabbow 1954, especially 127◊., 336◊., Hadot 1969a and 1969b, 54◊., Clay 1972, Angeli 1986, Erler and Ungern-Sternberg 1987, Capasso 1988a and 1988b. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
p r a c t i c e
671
Epicurus'  advice  that  Menoeceus  should  rehearse  these  and  similar doctrines with someone like himself as well as on his own introduces the only reference to friendship in the entire  Letter. It is significant that the reference takes this form. Friendship is not one more item of teaching to be  absorbed.  Rather  it  constitutes  the  framework  within  which  the amendment of a person's life required by Epicurean ethics is to be worked through. Evidence that Epicurean communities conceived themselves as societies  of  friends  having  this  among  other  functions  is  supplied  by Philodemus' treatise  On frank speaking ( PHerc. 1471). This work explores the question of how a philosopher should correct the moral faults of a student. As Martha Nussbaum comments, Philodemus 'represents himself as giving  a  picture  of  the  way  things  go  in  a  well-functioning  Epicurean community'. The title page indicates that as elsewhere in Philodemus the material derives largely from lectures of Zeno of Sidon, i.e. from the latter part of the second century bc.65
The fragmentary preservation of the text makes the argument of  On frank  speaking  often  hard  or  impossible  to  determine,  but  the  broad shape  of  the  work  is  reasonably  clear.  First  comes  a  section  (fr.  1-35) advising on the general strategy to be adopted by the teacher or 'leader'
( kathe-ge-te-s,  kathe-goumenos);  then  one  (fr.  36-52)  on  the  frankness  he should  expect  of  the  pupil  or  'person  being  prepared'  ( kataskeuazome-
 nos); and finally (fr. 53 onwards) a much longer part which takes up a sequence of particular practical problems that may confront or trouble the  teacher.  The  relationship  envisaged  between  pupil  and  teacher  is captured in a passage which dissuades students from listening to those who
inflame [sc. those they criticize] when they themselves are guilty of the same  things,  and  do  not  love  them  or  know  how  to  correct  them  or indeed have any chance of persuading persons who are much superior to themselves, instead of to someone who is purged and cherishes and is superior and knows how to apply therapy. (fr. 44)
Philodemus expects three things of the leader. He must be purged of the faults he criticizes in others, and so be their moral superior. He has to have the practical knowledge requisite for correction or therapy. And he will speak to his pupils with the sort of love that a parent has for its child. These attributes will enable him to avoid 'inflaming' the diseased condition of 65 For the text one still has to rely on the 1914 Teubner edition of A. Olivieri; but see the recent studies of Gigante 1975, 1983a, 55◊., Nussbaum 1986, 1994, ch. 4 (quotation from 1986, p. 37). 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
672
e p i c u r e a n   e t h i c s
the patient. Instead he e◊ects the purge he himself has already undergone. 
Other passages also stress that in doing so he is motivated by goodwill and sympathy. What he says should be received in a similar spirit as helpful and beneficial.66
The  friendship  between  the  two  parties  is  what  makes  frankness  on both sides appropriate. At one point Philodemus comments that
we could demonstrate by a comparative appraisal that, although many fine things result from friendship, none is so important as having someone to whom it is possible to speak one's heart and listen when he speaks his. (fr. 28)
Di◊erent cases call for di◊erent approaches. The leader will look for the right moment (col. 17b), not taking up every fault, even including quite serious  ones,  but  he  will  view  them  with  sympathy  (fr.  79),  bearing  in mind that he is dealing with young people (fr. 52) who are apt to throw over the traces (fr. 71). He will accordingly prefer to adopt a varied and gentle  critical  register  or  'technique  of  friendship'  ( philotechnia,  fr.  68), including elements of praise, encouragement (fr. 68), laughter (fr. 23) and
'irony  -  which  pleases  but  bites  into  everyone  pretty  well'  (fr.  26).  But sometimes he will have to be just frank (fr. 10) and resort to a sharpness which may be misconstrued as abuse (fr. 60). For
with those who are more robust than the delicate and those who need more attention he increases the pressure, while with those robust people who will hardly change course if they are shouted at he will use the harsh form of frankness. (fr. 7)
The pupil will then have to take what is said as an enema or other strong medicine  like  wormwood  (col.  2b)  or  hellebore  (tab.  12,  m),  again  and again if that is necessary to achieve the purge (fr. 63-4). Philodemus'  On anger ( PHerc.  182),  which  likewise  resorts  to  the  medical  analogy,  even refers  to  surgery  (col.  44.22).  For  his  part  the  person  being  prepared  is expected to declare his faults to the leader (fr. 49), encouraged in this by
'seeing that we [sc. the leaders] are accusers of ourselves also when we go completely astray' (fr. 51). It is also legitimate for fellow pupils to draw such faults to the leader's attention:
He  [sc.  the  leader]  will  not  think  someone  who  desires  his  friend  to receive correction an informer, when he is no such thing, but rather a person who loves his friend. (fr. 50)
66 Cf. fr. 25 and 43, and col. 17b. For sympathy as an ingredient of friendship see  Sent. Vat. 66. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
p r a c t i c e
673
What the pupil wants, after all, is a cure, and to get it he needs to hand himself over to the leader as his 'saviour' ( so-te-r) for therapy (fr. 40). He should not then object if well-wishers mention to his physician symptoms he is not aware of himself or may foolishly be trying to ignore. 
How much of this theory of the therapeutic relationship between philosopher and student goes back to Epicurus and his immediate circle is impossible  to  tell.  What  is  clear  is  that  the  theory  was  legitimated  by appeal to the authority of Epicurus and the other  kathe-gemones:67
And now to the common thread and the cardinal point: we shall be obey-ing Epicurus, in accordance with whom we have chosen to live. (fr. 45) To sum up, the wise man speaks frankly to his friends as did Epicurus and Metrodorus. (fr. 15)
Frankness of speech is not a subject on which Epicurus has anything to say in what survives of his writings.68 But his school did possess copies of the large number of letters he sent his friends, pupils and relatives. From the fragments  of  these,  together  with  other  information  about  them,  it  is clear that Epicurus wrote to his correspondents in tones of great personal concern  and  often  urgency.  At  key  points   On  frank  speaking  is  probably relying on particular passages in them where Epicurus either took correspondents to task (fr. 6) or indicated his approval of their openness about their shortcomings:
Heraclides is praised because he supposed the criticisms he would incur as a result of what was going to come to light were less important than the  benefit  he  would  get  from  them,  and  so  informed  Epicurus  of  his mistakes. (fr. 49)
The text becomes lacunose at this juncture, but refers to Polyaenus (one of the  kathe-gemones), probably as having earned credit for mentioning someone else's bad attitude to Epicurus.69
It is not surprising that scholars have found here anticipations of the Catholic confessional or Freudian analysis.70 Seneca will supply us with 67 On the καθηγεµο!νε - the founding fathers of Epicureanism - see Longo Aurrichio 1978, and on  the  supreme  authority  of  Epicurus  himself  Sedley  1989a,  Erler  1993.  N.B.  Sen.  Ep.  33.4: omnia . . . unius ductu et auspiciis dicta sunt. 
68 One use of the term παρρησι!α at  Sent. Vat. 29, where frank speaking is contrasted with conforming to popular opinion in the hope of winning praise. 
69 Further  references  to  letters  of  Epicurus  at  fr.  9,  72.  For  details  of  a  collection  of  letters  of Polyaenus  designed  to  illustrate  his  humanity,  and  preserved  in  the  Herculaneum  library (Anon.  PHerc. 176; see Tepedino Guerra 1991, fr. 4, 5, 15, 41; and Sedley 1989a, 105). 
70 Confessional: Sudhaus 1911; cf. also Schmid 1962, 740-7. Psychiatry: Nussbaum 1994, 134-5. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
674







e p i c u r e a n   e t h i c s
an appropriately sombre conclusion, for he ascribes to Epicurus the saying:
Do everything as though Epicurus were watching you.  Ep. 25.571
71 Cf. Cic.  Fin. v. 3, where Atticus says: 'I could not forget Epicurus even if I wanted to, since our people put his likeness not only in pictures but on drinking-cups and rings'; see further Frischer 1982 on the role of sculpture and other images in Epicureanism. The 'penitential' dimension of Epicurean ethics is a particular interest of Seneca's: see besides  Ep. 25.4-6,  Ep.  11.8, 28.9, 97.15, with discussion in Schmid 1957, 301-14; 1962, 740-7. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
21
Stoic ethics
b r a d   i n w o o d   ( i - v i i )   a n d
p i e r l u i g i   d o n i n i   ( v i i i - x i )
i Foundations and first principles1
Stoic ethics starts from foundations and first principles which are more explicit  than  those  of  most  ancient  ethical  systems.2 Chrysippus announced in his  Propositions in Physics  that 'there is no other or more fitting way to tackle the theory of good and bad things, the virtues, and happiness than on the basis of nature as a whole and the administration of the cosmos'  (Plu.  Stoic.  Rep.  1035c).  This  explicit  statement  about  starting points puts the emphasis on nature in the cosmic sense, i.e. the nature of the  entire  providentially  governed  cosmos;  but  elsewhere  Chrysippus turns to a more inclusive sense of nature: when he says 'Where should I begin from and what should I take as the starting point for the appropriate  and  as  the  raw  material  for  virtue,  if  I  skip  over  nature  and  what accords with nature?' (Plu.  Comm. Not.1069e), it is clear that the nature in question is not just cosmic. Crucial ethical concepts also find their roots in the nature of humans and in theories about what accords with human nature. 
The  central  importance  of  human  nature  clearly  goes  back  to  the 1 The  principal  sources  for  early  Stoic  ethics  are  the  doxographical  summaries  in  Stobaeus (thought  to  be  based  on  an  earlier  work  by  Arius  Didymus)  and  in  Book  vii of  Diogenes Laertius, and the connected discussion in Cicero's  De Finibus  iii. Important information also comes from other works of Cicero, Alexander of Aphrodisias, Plutarch's moral essays, Seneca's philosophical works, Epictetus, Marcus Aurelius, and a wealth of scattered sources. Galen's  On the opinions of Plato and Hippocrates ( PHP) is of exceptional importance for the Stoic theory of the passions. The doxographical accounts are of most value for their expository framework and relatively exact technical terminology, though often they mute any sense of the philosophical issue which lies behind the theories. The polemical treatments of our non-Stoic sources can be very helpful in setting a philosophical context - though it is not clear that Plutarch, Alexander, or Galen have in view the very philosophical issues which animated Chrysippus or Zeno centuries earlier. Later Stoics present quite di◊erent problems; Seneca, Epictetus, and Marcus Aurelius all tell us something about their predecessors, but they also develop Stoicism in new directions. 
It is a delicate and ultimately uncertain task to make the necessary distinctions. 
2 Another exception is Epicureanism, whose first principles emerge with great clarity from our sources. It is perhaps no accident that the Stoic tradition began shortly after Epicureanism and in the same city. 
[675]
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
676
s t o i c   e t h i c s
founder of the school. In the list of titles given by Diogenes Laertius (vii.4) we find a treatise  On the life according to nature  and one  On impulse, also titled On human nature. But we have no record of an  On goals  or  On virtue; indeed, the main evidence given for Zeno's views on the  telos  is the work  On human nature (D.L.  vii.87).  Whatever  the  rôle  of  human  as  opposed  to  cosmic nature  in  Zeno's  thinking,  it  is  striking  that  the  major  ethical  treatises (aside from the  Republic) suggest a strong interest in the former. A similar interest in human nature is also suggested for Zeno by the position taken by Cleanthes on the  telos: as reported by Diogenes Laertius (vii.89), he 'no longer' included particular nature in the formulation of the  telos. The obvious implication of this is that Zeno did include it.3
Both human and cosmic nature serve as the foundations and first principles of Stoic ethics. Although it might seem natural for us to wonder how these two focuses of ethical theory can be made to cohere, the Stoics had no such worries. Nothing is more characteristic of the school, from the beginnings in the late fourth century to the end of antiquity, than the thesis  that  human  and  cosmic  nature  are  related  as  part  to  whole.4 As humans, we have natures which grow out of the nature of the whole cosmos; and when, in considering the foundations of their ethics, we see the early  Stoics  moving  with  comfort  and  confidence  from  the  one  to  the other  (and  often  even  leaving  it  unclear  which  sense  of  nature  they  are concerned with in a particular argument), we might as well refrain from the  obvious  criticisms.  The  thesis  that  human  and  cosmic  nature  are related as part to whole is only occasionally argued for, but never doubted. 
And without this fixed point, no consideration of the foundations of Stoic ethics is possible. 
Since  Stoic  physics  is  handled  elsewhere  in  this  volume,  the  cosmic sense of nature must be subordinated, somewhat artificially, in this chapter.5 Hence it is best to begin from the starting points of human nature, at birth and shortly after, before turning to the whole of which we are parts. 
Only then is it appropriate to discuss the  telos  and the good. 
3 See Striker 1991, 3-5. 
4 The Stoics, most notably Zeno, argued specifically that the cosmos has many attributes possessed by humans, in particular rationality and sense perception: S.E.  M  ix.104-10. Similarly Cic.  ND  ii.22 presents a Stoic argument from the attributes of the parts (animals) to those of the whole (the cosmos). Seneca ( Ep.  92.30) is explicit that men are 'parts' as well as 'allies' of God. 
See Schofield 1983. 
5 For representative statements of opposing views on the relevance of cosmology to Stoic ethics, see Long 1988a (stressing, as I would, the indispensable role of cosmological theses) and Annas 1988a (de-emphasizing it). Annas 1993a, ch. 5, also argues that cosmological nature is of subordinate  importance  in  Stoic  ethics;  for  critical  response  see  Inwood  1995.  See  also  Striker 1991, Engberg-Pedersen 1990, ch. 2, and N. P. White 1985. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
-
o i k e i o s i s a n d   p r i m a r y   i m p u l s e
677
ii  Oikeio
 -sis  and primary impulse
The  Stoic  view  that  virtue  is  somehow  naturally  ingrained  in  human beings, and that virtuous behaviour is at least a part of our natural function  as  rational  animals,  is  one  of  the  basic  positions  they  share  with Peripatetic and Platonic ethics. This view contrasts with the instrumental conception  of  virtue  held  by  the  Epicureans,  who  believed  that  our natural a√liation is to pleasure (in the sense of 'freedom from pain'). One (though  only  one)  Epicurean  argument  for  hedonism  was  based  on  the alleged observation that even new-born animals (including humans) display a√liation to pleasure; the importance of this claim lay in the fact that such an a√liation obviously predates and so is independent of any influence  from  education  and  culture.  The  Stoic  response6 is  expressed  not just  in  a  counter-argument,  but  in  a  general  theory  of  human  development which is tied to the technical term  oikeio-sis, first attested in Stoic contexts, and probably a typical Stoic neologism, though there is no evidence that it was coined by Zeno. 
The word  oikeio-sis  is a nominal form of the verb  oikeiousthai, 'to make familiar,  make  one's  own,  introduce'.  The  verb  in  turn  derives  from  an adjective  oikeios, which often has the sense of 'one's own, properly belonging to someone'. The verb's overtones of a◊ection are quite strong, and it is  often  used  of  family  members  and  intimate  friends.7  Oikeio-sis  is  a di√cult  term  even  to  translate;  I  will  use  'a√liation',  though  most attempts to capture its sense have been unsatisfactory.8 As for the associated  theory,  there  are  other  influences  to  reckon  with,  such  as  the Peripatetic account of  oikeiote-s  or natural adaptedness apparently developed  by  Theophrastus  on  the  basis  of  Aristotelian  ethics.9 But  the 6 It was Pohlenz 1940 who established that the Stoic theory of  oikeio-sis  is most plausibly regarded as a response to such Epicurean claims. See also Brunschwig 1986. 
7 The ultimate origin is from  oikos, 'house(hold)', which reinforces the sense of possession often found in the derivative expressions. 
8 Long and Sedley 1987, i.489, use 'appropriate' (which I use here for  kathe-kon, see below) and
'appropriation';  Inwood  1985,  ch.  6,  uses  'orientation';  Striker  1983,  145  paraphrases
'recognition  and  appreciation  of  something  as  belonging  to  one'  and  then  transliterates, which is also the solution adopted by Pembroke 1971, whose work is still the standard introduction to the topic. Kerferd 1972 emphasizes the sense of 'belonging' and gives an admirably detailed  discussion  of  the  development  of  the  term;  see  too  Görgemanns  1983,  Forschner 1981, 144-5. 
9 See Görgemanns 1983, 166-8 and Kerferd 1972; also Striker 1983 and Forschner 1981, ch. 9. 
Theophrastus' views: Porph.  Abst.  3.25.1-4 (fr. 531 in Fortenbaugh  et al.  1992b). The originality of the Stoic contribution as against Theophrastean claims was established by Pohlenz 1940 and Brink 1956; Philippson 1932 is still worth attention. Of recent authors Giusta 1964-7 is virtually alone in retaining significant aspects of the alternative view developed by Dirlmeier 1937
and von Arnim 1926. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
678
s t o i c   e t h i c s
Epicurean  view  seems  to  have  been  the  principal  catalyst  for  the  early Stoic theory of  oikeio-sis.  10
If human nature is a foundation for ethics, then, as the Epicureans saw, the importance of neonatal behaviour is that it is a clear and uncorrupted illustration of that nature. The challenge for the Stoics in rebutting the Epicurean claims came from the fact that it is di√cult to hold that newborns are committed to virtue. Of course, the Stoics did not have to retain the Epicurean view that all animals have the same natural neonatal tendencies.  They  could  have  held  that  human  animals  are  di◊erent  in  this respect. But even so there is no readily observable commitment to anything like virtue in newborn humans. As it turns out, they did choose to retain the view that human newborns are relevantly similar to other newborn animals. Our principal sources for the Stoic theory of  oikeio-sis  agree that the object of the first a√liation of humans is self-preservation, and that  this  is  the  case  for  all  animals.  Hence,  there  is  nothing  distinctive about humans at this stage of life. 
*
The most important piece of evidence is in Diogenes Laertius, near the beginning  of  his  general  doxography  of  Stoic  ethics  (cf.  Cic.  Fin. 
iii.16 -17):11
They  say  that  the  first  impulse  an  animal  has  is  to  self-preservation, because nature a√liated it [thus] from the beginning, as Chrysippus says in book one of  On goals, maintaining that the first a√liation for each animal is to its own constitution and the awareness of it. For it is not reasonable  [for  nature]  to  make  the  animal  alienated  from  itself,  nor,  having created  it,  to  make  it  neither  alienated  from  nor  a√liated  to  itself. 
Therefore, the only remaining claim is that having constituted the animal  [nature]  a√liated  it  to  itself.  For  in  this  way  it  can  repel  harmful things  and  pursue  congenial  things.  They  assert  that  the  claim  which some people make, viz. that the first impulse of animals is to pleasure, is false. For, they say, pleasure, if it comes into the matter at all, is a by-product which supervenes when nature all by itself has sought out and attained those things which are suited to its constitution. It is like the condition of thriving animals and plants in top condition. And nature, they say, is no di◊erent in the case of plants than it is for animals, since it 10 This  is  most  plausible  for   oikeio-sis  as  applied  to  the  explanation  of  the  human  a√liation  to virtue; Epicurean claims seem less germane to the more di√cult question of the relationship between self-regarding and other-regarding virtues (for which see below, p.680, and ch. 22). 
11 I assume throughout (contra e.g. Engberg-Pedersen 1990) that the account in D.L. vii and that in  Fin.  iii should be treated as complementary. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
-
o i k e i o s i s a n d   p r i m a r y   i m p u l s e
679
governs them [sc. plants] too, though without impulse and perception, and  in  us  too  some  things  occur  in  a  plant-like  way.  Since  impulse  is superadded to [the life of ] animals, and they use it to pursue congenial things, for them the natural is determined by what accords with impulse. 
And since reason has been given to rational animals as a more complete form of governance, for them the rational life turns out, correctly, to be according to nature. (D.L. vii.85-6)
As an anti-hedonistic move this might do.12 But there is so far little to help the Stoics with their positive claim that our commitment to virtue is grounded  in  human  nature.  Indeed,  if  their  theorizing  about  human psychological  development  stopped  here,  it  would  do  little  more  than explain the obvious and regrettable commitment of people to selfish, self-preserving egoism. The challenge for Stoics is to show convincingly that the commitment of normal, healthy moral agents to virtue is rooted in and explained by this neonatal a√liation to self-preservation. That this point is not made by way of a conventional 'argument' seems clear.13 But the set of claims advanced to meet this theoretical challenge is an important part of the foundations of Stoic ethics and reveals how closely those foundations are tied to moral psychology. 
The key to this part of Stoic ethics lies in the notion of a person's 'constitution'. We have met the notion already in the text of Diogenes Laertius quoted above; it also appears in Cicero's treatment of this topic ( Fin.  iii.16
◊.).  In  these  texts  'constitution'  seems  to  refer  to  the  person,  the  compound of body and soul which constitutes the identifiable individual. It is most natural to think of it as the Stoic counterpart of what we would call the 'self '.14 One's constitution has both general and individual features,15
but is still one's own self, the self to whose preservation one is committed from birth on. The notion of a constitution enables the Stoics to articulate the object of one's primal attachment; to refer to nothing more specific than the self provides no encouragement to analyse what makes it up. 
In an important letter ( Ep.  121) Seneca supplies the rest of the theory. 
The  constitution  is  said  to  change  as  the  person  grows  up.  Whereas  it 12 But there are few knock-down arguments against the Epicurean proposals in Stoic texts (cf. 
Brunschwig 1986). Even the Stoic allegation that our preference for pleasure is merely 'supervenient' looks like counter-assertion. At best it shows that a determined anti-hedonist could give a coherent account of the same phenomena as the Epicureans claimed. 
13 See  Striker  1983,  who  infers  that   oikeio-sis  was  'probably  not  the  foundation  of  Stoic  ethics'
(p. 165). But explicit argument is not the only way to recommend a philosophical position: cf. 
Inwood 1984, which deals with the later but doctrinally conservative Stoic Hierocles. 
14 It  is  probably  the  early  Stoic  antecedent  of  the   personae  as  developed  by  Panaetius.  See  Gill 1988. 
15 Corresponding to 'commonly' and 'peculiarly qualified' individuals (see pp. 402-6). 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
680
s t o i c   e t h i c s
might be odd to say that the child and the adult have di◊erent selves, it is relatively straightforward to say that they are di◊erently constituted, that is, have di◊erent constitutions. It is the notion of the evolving constitution which enables the Stoics to develop the claim that one's primal a√liation to oneself can be both  stable  and dynamic: it is always directed to one's constitution, but that constitution itself develops. Since it is defined as the 'commanding faculty in a certain relation to the body' ( Ep.121.10), it seems evident that changes in the commanding faculty will be the most important (but not the only) factor in development of the a√liation to self. Thus when the commanding faculty becomes rational, the a√liation to oneself remains unchanged; but the object of our attachment is now intrinsically rational, and that makes an enormous di◊erence to the ethics built upon such an attachment. 
The gap to be bridged by Stoic naturalism was between primal self-love and the commitment to virtue. The concept of the self as a naturally evolving constitution has carried us most of the way across the chasm; the space left to be covered is short, but crucial. How are we to get from our commitment to rationality to a commitment to virtue - in particular to those virtues which are fundamentally other-regarding (for an egoistic attachment to self can easily ground such virtues as prudence and self-control)? 
Justice is the most interesting test case for Stoic naturalism. 
There are three considerations which the Stoics relied on (implicitly or explicitly) to get them across this final gap, to reconcile our apparently natural egoism with other-regarding virtues. First, they held (and argued at  some  length)  that  in  some  sense  the  virtues  are  'one'  (see  below). 
Whether Stoics believe with Aristo that all the virtues are identical, only the name varying, or that they are distinct but mutually entailing,16 the unity thesis ought to help them here. For if prudence is rooted in rational self-love,  so  must  be  justice.  The  work  of  justifying  such  a  connection might  then  be  done  not  in  the  naturalistic  framework  of  a  theory  of oikeio-sis, where it is open to direct challenge by Epicureans (among others), but rather in the context of the analysis of virtue itself. Second, the Stoics could point to features of the adult constitution which clearly support the claim that other-regarding behaviour is 'natural' to humans, just as natural as it is to other animals. A text of Plutarch ( Stoic. Rep.  1038bc) shows at least that adult animals have a natural tendency to nurture their young.17 So  too  do  most  other  animals,  especially  the  social  animals. 
16 On this debate see Schofield 1984. See also below, pp. 707, 717-19. 
17 This issue is explored at length in Blundell 1990. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
-
o i k e i o s i s a n d   p r i m a r y   i m p u l s e
681
Hence man  qua  animal and not just  qua  rational has a teleologically explicable and naturally grounded commitment to others. The social nature of the human species is evident, so that such adaptively successful behaviour is an essential part of our nature. Once that is established, all one needs to do is to generalize that commitment on the basis of rational considerations,  i.e.,  those  which  apply  uniformly  to  all  relevantly  similar  cases. 
Nature  makes  all  animals  love  their  o◊spring  as  members  of  their  own species; so too with humans. We love our children as humans, for their distinctively  human  capabilities.  We  love  them  for  their  rationality, potential though it may be. And with the consistency given to us by reason we must eventually come to see (as the later Stoic Hierocles hopes and urges, and as some Academics doubt) that our commitment must then be to all rational animals equally; for it is precisely in virtue of their rationality that they are valuable.18
This brings us to an anticipation of what must be dealt with later, the substantive content of reason itself as something characterized by consistency (in at least two senses: internal coherence and similar treatment of relevantly similar matters). The good, according to the Stoics, is 'virtue and what participates in virtue' (D.L. vii.94); it is also defined as 'what is complete [or perfect:  teleion] according to nature for a rational being  qua rational'. Since rationality brings with it a rich notion of consistency, consistency will be a component of the Stoic conception of the good, and so also of virtue. As we have already seen, rationality as such will give the Stoics what they need to include other-regarding virtues as grounded in self-love,  though  only  because  they  presuppose  a  notion  of  rationality which is not instrumental and colourless, but substantive. 
The third line of consideration which the Stoics could rely on to span the  distance  between  egoistic  rationalism  and  the  foundation  of  other-regarding virtues is also suggested by the passage of Plutarch we are considering. Chrysippus seems to have grouped together our a√liations to ourselves, our parts, and our o◊spring. It might well be argued that the attachment to our parts is a natural extension of our attachment to our constitution. We could hardly be inclined to preserve our selves without being inclined to preserve our component parts. And, on a view of reproductive biology not utterly foreign to Greek philosophy, our o◊spring are at least in origin parts of their parents. Hence parental love is partial self-love;  and  as  those  parts  grow  to  autonomy,  we  continue  to  love  them. 
18 Relevant texts of Hierocles (Stob. iv.671.7-673.11) and an anonymous Academic (Anon.  In Tht. 
5.18-6.31) are conveniently available in Long and Sedley 1987, ch.57, G and H. For further discussion see below, pp. 762-4. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
682
s t o i c   e t h i c s
Once  again,  the  Stoics  find  in  their  theory  of  human  nature  what  they need to ground other-regarding virtues. 
There is, of course, a serious residual problem: sometimes there might appear to be conflicts between other-regarding virtuous actions and self-regarding  virtuous  actions.  The  Stoics  are  committed  -  with  whatever degree of plausibility - to regarding such cases as merely apparent conflicts;19 this  follows  from  even  the  weakest  version  of  the  thesis  of  the unity of virtues (see below, pp. 717-19). 
iii Cosmic nature and human nature
The Stoics were not content to ground their ethics in facts about human nature considered on its own. Nature as a whole, that is, the rational and providential structure of the world, also lies behind the norms and principles  which  define  human  perfection.  That  this  is  so  emerges  at  many points  from  a  reading  of  the  fragmentary  remains  of  Stoic  ethics. 
Consider,  for  example,  the  text  from  Diogenes  Laertius  quoted  above, p. 678. In it, we are told not just that animals are a√liated to the preservation  of  their  own  constitutions,  but  that  they  were  made  that  way  by nature.  Nature  endowed  humans  with  this  a√liation  because  it  would not have been reasonable (ει0κο!,  eikos) for her not to do so, in view of the fact  that  she  made  them.  Only  a  negligent  or  non-providential  nature could make animals and then abandon them to the world with no internalized drive for self-preservation.20 But it is a basic tenet of Stoic cosmology  (shared  with  Plato  and  Aristotle)21 that  nature  and/or  God  is neither negligent nor non-providential. And it is just that tenet of cosmology which is used to prove that animals have by nature the foundations of ethical behaviour built into them from birth onwards. 
More general features of cosmology are relevant to the foundations of ethics. The world is a single whole, permeated by divine rationality. That rationality is concentrated in certain parts of the world, such as the fiery 19 This view is defended at length by Cicero in the  De O√ciis. 
20 The  idea  of  animals  being  created  by  a  rational  and  providential  agent  is  common  in  Greek speculation.  One  thinks  of  the  Great  Myth  of  Plato's   Protagoras  and  the  creator  god  of  the Timaeus. Xenophon's providential deity ( Mem. i.4) and Aristotle's nature which does nothing in vain are also relevant. 
21 Sandbach 1985 argues against knowledge of Aristotle's esoteric works on the part of the earlier Stoics.  But  while  Theophrastus  lived  these  books  were  surely  available  to  a  philosopher  of Zeno's inquisitive temperament. Hence, despite the relative lack of direct references (attributable to the state of our sources), Aristotle's esoteric treatises may reasonably be treated as relevant background for (and even as influences on) early Stoicism. For an earlier and still useful view, see Long 1968, Rist 1969a, ch. 1. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
c o s m i c   n a t u r e   a n d   h u m a n   n a t u r e 683
heavenly  bodies  (the  commanding  faculty  of  the  cosmos22)  and  the human soul. All of the distinct components of the world are parts of it, but they are arranged on a rank-ordered scale ranging from the simplest to the most complex kinds of objects, from inert earth and stones, through plants and brute beasts, to humans. We humans are more than mere parts of the whole; we are privileged parts, parts which unlike any others share in the distinctive attributes of the whole. Hence humans, as the best parts of  the  whole,  are  in  a  position  to  collaborate  with  the  rationality  of  all nature; we are, as Seneca says ( Ep.  92.30: see above, p. 676 n. 4), not just parts, but also 'allies' of nature. In view of our privileged role and shared nature, humans will naturally find their perfection and fulfilment not just in rational behaviour, but in behaviour as a member of a community of gods and men.23
This cosmological perspective on ethics is relevant in many ways. Our role  as  collaborators  or  allies  will  certainly  a◊ect  the  treatment  which Stoics give to the question of determinism and the possibility of morally responsible action. And the Stoics will also hold that humans can learn important things about human behaviour from the observation of nature as a whole. But most important of all, this cosmological perspective gives the Stoics good reasons for emulating the world's rationality, orderliness, and structured interdependence. For after all, we are parts which share a nature with the whole, i.e. the world. Such a whole is more complete than we are, just because it is a whole. And since our goal as humans is to complete ourselves, to achieve the fulfilment of our nature in the attainment of our  telos, we do so most e◊ectively by imitating the relevant features of the world. These external reference points underpin the Stoic conception of what is natural to humans; they take ethical foundations beyond what one might learn by mere observation of humans as humans, and certainly far beyond what an Epicurean might find by application of the criterion of feelings ( pathe-). They also provide a way for ethical naturalism to transcend the typically Aristotelian appeal to what is 'always or for the most part' - which for Aristotle is an indication of what is natural. 
But the Stoics often fly in the face of broad human consensus about values,  and  in  so  doing  they  reject  Aristotelian  criteria  in  ethics24 just  as much as they reject the Epicurean ethical criteria, feelings. Plato does so too,  of  course,  but  by  transcending  the  world  of  nature  for  an  other-worldly  grounding  in  a  distinct  divine  and  noetic  realm.  The  Stoics  go 22 See ch. 12. 
23 See ch. 22. 
24 Though they are willing to argue dialectically; see Brunschwig 1991. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
684
s t o i c   e t h i c s
beyond  the  naturalism  of  Aristotle  and  Epicurus  (and  common  sense) but do  so  without  abandoning  naturalism  in  a  Platonic  way.  Their transcendental  naturalism  is  possible  because  of  their  readiness  to  see human life as a dependent part of the rational whole. 
iv The goal of life
Since Aristotle at least and throughout the Hellenistic period the concept of the goal of life (the  telos) was central to ethical theory.25 'Goal' is not a particularly happy translation, since it fails to connote completeness and culmination, which are important aspects of the concept. But it does have the advantage of emphasizing the fact that the  telos  is the unified object of all human striving. The goal of life for Stoics has two aspects, formal and substantive.  Formally,  the  concept  of  goal  meets  the  criteria  which Aristotle  set  out  in  Book  I  of  the   Nicomachean  Ethics,  26 including  the designation of the goal as that 'for the sake of which everything is done'
and what 'is itself done for the sake of nothing else' (Stob. ii.77.16-17). In addition to being the ultimate object of striving, always being chosen for its own sake, it is also complete, self-su√cient, and most worth choosing (in the sense that any other good added to it could not make it more worth choosing).  On  this  level  most  Hellenistic  schools  would  agree  in  their description  of  it.  But  in  substance  the  Stoic  goal  di◊ers  from  that  laid down  by  any  other  school,  and  that  di◊erence  was  apparent  in  all  the formulations which they gave, from the founder Zeno onwards. 
Let  us  look  at  some  of  these  formulations.  First,  in  a  text  of  Arius Didymus quoted by Stobaeus:
Zeno  defined  the  goal  thus:  'living  in  agreement'.  This  means  living according to a single and consonant rational principle, since those who live in conflict are unhappy. Those who came after him made further distinctions and expressed it thus: 'living in agreement with nature', supposing  that  Zeno's  formulation  was  an  incomplete  predicate.27 For Cleanthes, who first inherited [the leadership of ] his school, added 'with nature' and defined it thus: 'the goal is living in agreement with nature'. 
Chrysippus wanted to make this clearer and expressed it in this way: 'to live  according  to  experience  of  the  things  which  happen  by  nature'.28
25 Compare the treatments in Striker 1991, 1-13, Engberg-Pedersen 1990, ch. i. 
26 Cf. Irwin 1986, 206 ◊., summarizing part of  EN  i.7. 
27 D.L. vii.87 states: 'Zeno first, in his book  On the Nature of Man, said that the goal was to live in agreement with nature, which is to live according to virtue.' Probably Zeno gave both the longer and shorter formulae and the followers mentioned by Stobaeus reacted against the short version. 
28 Information repeated at D.L. vii.87, where it is attributed to Book i of  On goals. Note also D.L. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   g o a l   o f   l i f e
685
And Diogenes: 'to be reasonable in the selection and rejection of natural things'. And Archedemus: 'to live completing all the appropriate acts'.29
And Antipater: 'to live invariably selecting natural things and rejecting unnatural  things'.30 He  often  defined  it  thus  as  well:  'invariably  and unswervingly to do everything in one's power for the attainment of the principal natural things'. (Stob. ii.75.11-76.15)
A bit later we read that Zeno, Cleanthes and Chrysippus defined happiness as 'a smooth flow of life' (ii.77.21). Diogenes Laertius reports on the connection of these general views to virtue and to cosmology:
Thus Zeno first, in his book  On the Nature of Man, said that the goal was to live in agreement with nature, which is to live according to virtue. For nature  leads  us  to  virtue.  And  similarly  Cleanthes  in   On  Pleasure   and Posidonius  and  Hecaton  in  their  books   On  the  Goal.  Again,  'to  live according to virtue' is equivalent to living according to the experience of events which occur by nature, as Chrysippus says in book one of his  On Goals. For our natures are parts of the nature of the universe. Therefore the  goal  becomes  'to  live  consistently  with  nature',  i.e.,  according  to one's own nature and that of the universe, doing nothing which is forbidden by the common law, which is right reason, penetrating all things, being the same as Zeus who is the leader of the administration of things. 
And this itself is the virtue of the happy man and a smooth flow of life, whenever all things are done according to the harmony of the divinity in each  of  us  with  the  will  of  the  administrator  of  the  universe.  (D.L. 
vii.87-8)
It  is  evident  that  whatever  the  di◊erences  in  detail,  the  thrust  of  all  of these  formulations  of  the  goal  of  life  is  essentially  the  same.31 A  life  in complete  accordance  with  nature  in  the  relevant  senses  (human  nature vii.89: 'by nature, in consistency with which we must live, Chrysippus understands both the common  and,  specifically,  human  nature.  Cleanthes  only  includes  the  common,  and  not  the individual,  as  the  nature  with  which  one  must  be  consistent.'  This  di◊erence  in  emphasis between Cleanthes and Chrysippus is not surprising. 
29 Information repeated at D.L. vii.88. 
30 More  literally,  the  'things  in  accordance  with  nature'  and  'contrary  to  nature'  respectively. 
These are things like health, prosperity, etc. and their opposites and are roughly equivalent to the 'preferred' and 'dispreferred' indi◊erents discussed below. See also the discussion of selection below. 
31 Clearly so for Zeno, Cleanthes and Chrysippus, but also for the apparently di◊erent formulations from the second century bc; cf. also Panaetius' definition: 'to live according to the starting points given to us by nature' (Clem.  Strom.  ii.21 (p. 183 Stählin) ⫽ fr. 96 van Straaten). A similar story for the apparently divergent views of Posidonius (Galen   PHP  v.6.3-29 ⫽ fr. 187 Kidd). 
Discussion: Kidd 1971, Long 1967, Soreth 1968, Striker 1986, and Striker 1991, 24-35. The view of Aristo of Chios, that the goal consists in a life of indi◊erence to everything except virtue and vice (not a word about nature), is significantly di◊erent, and is reported elsewhere (D.L. 
vii.160, in his biographical entry). See Striker 1991, 14-24, Ioppolo 1980a, ch. 5. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
686
s t o i c   e t h i c s
and cosmic nature) is the one thing which humans are made to live for. 
Such a life will be consistent, smoothly harmonious, virtuous, and happy; it will be the full expression of a flourishing human life and will be characterized by the performance of actions which are reasonable when judged by the standard of nature. Hence the 'things according to nature' will be an important part of our focus in life.32 These naturally preferred things are what Chrysippus called 'the raw material of virtue' (Plu.  Comm. Not. 
1069e),  and  it  is  unlikely  that  he  was  departing  from  the  substance  of Zeno's  views  when  he  took  this  view.33 The  agent  will  also  live,  as Chrysippus says, 'according to experience of the things which happen by nature', and here it is probably cosmic nature and the determined events of the natural world which he has most in mind. Nature thus plays the roles of standard and guide for human actions in two senses: the 'things according to nature' are reasonable as objects of choice for human beings just because our human nature is what it is; but the larger plan of nature is the ultimate framework and constraint for all of our particular and local choices. Human and cosmic nature both matter. 
When later heads of the school developed their formulations of the goal they attempted to bring out more clearly the role of 'things according to nature' as central objects of choice in the life of virtue; they did so, in part, as  a  response  to  serious  criticisms  of  early  formulations  by  Carneades. 
This  development  culminated  in  the  position  taken  by  Antipater,  and though it is generally agreed that these later thinkers did not yield on the central thesis of Stoic ethics (that virtue is su√cient for happiness; or, as Antipater put it more Platonically, that only the morally fine is good),34
views have di◊ered on how fruitful the debate was. Long regards it as a kind of 'cold war' and maintains that the Stoic position was 'ambiguous and  liable  to  self-contradiction'.35 Striker,  by  contrast,  rethinks Antipater's formulation from the point of view of the Stoic thesis that virtue is a kind of craft or art ( techne-) of living36 and concludes (correctly, in my view) that the debate with Carneades led to substantial progress: the earlier  Stoic  theory  is  sharpened  and  strengthened  by  his  polemical exchange with the greatest dialectician of the day.37
32 Though as Long 1967, 62 points out, Zeno did not mention them explicitly in his formulations of the goal of life. 
33 If  Zeno  did  not  hold  roughly  the  view  which  Chrysippus  apparently  attributed  to  him,  we would have to regard him as being, in essence, still in agreement with his early Cynic 'teachers'. 
But as Rist 1977, esp. 171-2, points out, we have good reason to reject that view. 
34 See  SVF  iii Antipater 56, with Rieth 1934, 15. 
35 Long 1967, 89. 
36 To  be  exact,  a  stochastic  craft,  the  paradigm  example  of  which  was  archery,  which  figures prominently  in  our  sources  for  the  debate,  not  just  Plutarch  ( Comm.  Not.  1071bc)  but  also Cicero ( Fin.  iii.22). 
37 Striker 1986. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   g o o d
687
The Stoic goal is the one thing in reference to which we are to live. It has often been thought implausible to hold that there is any single thing which can serve as  the  reference point for life. Hence the debate about inclusive and dominant goals of life in Aristotle.38 But if the goal is a life according to nature and nature is understood as a unified phenomenon, then it is easier to understand the characterization of the goal as a single point of reference. If we live by nature then there really is just one standard to which we look: pleasure, honour, wisdom, all the other potentially conflicting values of life for an Aristotelian man, these are all set firmly in a subordinate role. 
A single criterion co-ordinates our attitude with respect to all of them. 
*
This leaves, of course, many problems about what exactly is natural in any given set of circumstances, problems with which the Stoics struggled in their  works   On  appropriate  actions.  Moreover,  one  might  think  that  the duality of human and cosmic nature threatens this tight unity. On the latter  point,  however,  the  Stoics  would  not  agree.  For  human  nature  is regarded as a part of cosmic nature, and consistency with human nature is in e◊ect a necessary condition for consistency with cosmic nature;39 and since cosmic nature is rational, it follows that living with an eye to cosmic nature will itself be a sure guide to human perfection too. 
v The good
In the  Meno (77b-78b) Plato shows Socrates arguing with Meno to the conclusion  that  all  men  desire  the  good,  or  at  least  the  apparent  good, what they believe to be good for themselves. It is convenient that Meno is slow to be convinced, for it gives Socrates the opportunity to justify this crucial claim in clear and direct terms: people pursue the good because it is good for them, provides them with benefit; the bad is understood as the source of harm for the agent. Once that is explained, the claim seems obviously  true.  It  is  made  elsewhere  in  Plato  too,  and  it  became  a  basic Platonic and Aristotelian doctrine. The same kind of argument also lies behind the common Socratic claim that no one does wrong (or makes mistakes) willingly.40
38 For this terminology see Hardie 1965, 1968; recent summary discussion in Kenny 1992, 6-7. 
39 See Inwood 1985, 105-11. 
40 See for example  Apol.  25d-26a, where Socrates rejects the suggestion that he might corrupt his associates willingly, on the grounds that if he did so he would be running the risk of su◊ering great personal harm - which no one would do. Hence, any damage Socrates does to his companions must be unintended. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
688
s t o i c   e t h i c s
The  assumptions  which  underlie  such  Socratic  reasoning  are  fundamental  to  Stoic  ethics.41 For  the  Stoics  'good'  is  the  source  of  genuine benefit to the agent. In Stobaeus ii.69.16-70.7 the word 'good' is said to have  many  senses;  the  primary  sense  'which  plays  a  role  like  that  of  a source [for the other senses]' is: that from which or by whom it results that  one  is  benefited.  Diogenes  Laertius  vii.94  gives  a  similar  account. 
Good is in general 'some benefit', and more particularly is either the same thing or 'what is not other than benefit'. 
In line with the Socratic tradition, the Stoics held that the only genuine benefit is virtue; and the benefit it provides is primarily to the agent himself.  Hence  good  is  described  as  virtue  and  what  participates  in  virtue, namely, virtuous people and actions done in accordance with virtue (see S.E.  M  xi.22-6). The Socratic concentration on 'care of the soul' also lies behind this approach to the good.42 Socrates claimed that he urged the Athenians to work for 'the best possible state of their souls' (Plato  Apol. 
29e, 30b), and such excellence he regarded as virtue. 
Greek  philosophical  ethics  consistently  held  that  moral  virtue  is  an excellence  of  the  soul  (the  word   arete-  is  ambiguous  between  these  two meanings). But despite that, it is not a trivial analytical truth that moral virtue  is  an  excellence;  the  case  of  Thrasymachus  in   Republic  1  shows clearly that in the fourth century bc excellence of the soul could be conceptualized in completely amoral terms. Philosophical defence of the thesis was called for and duly o◊ered by Plato and Aristotle. In the  Republic  it is argued  that  a  particular  virtue,  justice,  is  the  excellent  state  of  the  soul because it is analogous to health in the body. In the  Crito  it is claimed, and in the  Gorgias  argued for, that it is better for an agent to be wronged than to do wrong. Aristotle (in both versions of the  Ethics) attempts to connect moral  and  intellectual  virtue  to  human  excellence  through  arguments based on a conception of the function of the human organism. 
The Stoics are heirs to all of this. Hence, they provide another description of the good (D.L. vii.95): it is 'what is complete according to nature for a rational being  qua  rational' (cf. Cic.  Fin. iii.33). To bring one's rational soul to a condition of completeness or perfection, to make it a superb example  of  its  kind,  is  just  to  take  care  that  it  be  in  the  best  possible state.43 Diogenes Laertius goes on to note that 'virtue is such a condition'. 
41 The importance of Socratic influence in Hellenistic thought has been discussed by Long 1988b. 
See ch. 19, this volume. 
42 Socratic rather than Platonic: nothing in Stoic ethics resonates with the impersonal and transcendental good of Plato's  Republic. 
43 On the connection between man's rational nature and the cosmic nature (which is also rational), see Sen.  Ep.  124.14, Cic.  Fin. iii.21. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
t h e   g o o d
689
The absence here of any argument designed to prove that moral virtue is such  a  perfection  shows  only  that  this  work  has  been  done  elsewhere. 
What matters now is the conception of good as a state of perfection in accordance  with  one's  rational  nature.  This  is  indeed  'benefit'  for  the agent.44
The good is a state of perfection (it is  teleion) in the rational agent. As such, it is intimately related to the concept of the 'goal' ( telos) of life. The Stoics held that the good, i.e. virtue and associated states, is the key to achieving the goal, i.e. happiness. One is often uncertain about the best way  of  rendering  the  concept  of  perfection  or  completeness  ( to  teleion) into English; in view of its connection with the goal of life one might do well  to  entertain  yet  another  translation  of   teleion.  'Goal-like'  or  'connected  with  the  goal'  capture  aspects  of  the  term  which  'perfect'  and
'complete' miss. The good, then, is rooted in nature just as the goal is. But goodness is natural to humans in another sense too. The  notion ( ennoia) of good is said to be natural to man. The point is put most bluntly at D.L. 
vii.53: 'we acquire the notion of something just and good naturally'. The naturalness of the concept means that it is natural and normal for humans to develop the concept in the course of their experience. 
There are also Socratic roots for the view that from the ordinary and rather banal concept of 'advantage' we can move to the concept of genuine  advantage.  Socrates'  exhortation  in  the   Apology (see  esp.  30ab)  to change one's normal priorities, so that bodily wellbeing and wealth are seen as secondary to virtue, suggests an argument of this sort. His audience accepts that health and wealth are beneficial; Socrates' exhortation to them relies on that, and claims that care of the soul provides an even greater benefit. Such reasoning also turns up in Stoic sources. The concept of good comes to us naturally in that it grows out of analogical reflection on other values (Cic.  Fin. iii.33-4, Sen.  Ep.  120) in accordance with common conceptions and consistently with ordinary life (Plu.  Stoic. Rep. 
1041e, S.E.  M  xi.22). Reflection on those values and on the experiences of human life is said to lead naturally to an awareness of the good and its relationship  to  the  goal  of  life;  particular  emphasis  is  put  on  the  natural attraction for rational beings of a sense of orderliness and planning ( Fin. 
iii.21). 
A number of distinct appeals to experience are combined in the various claims that our concept of good is natural. The Stoics held, apparently, that 44 See also S.E.  M  xi.22, where the beneficial nature of the good is said to be in line with the common conceptions. Whatever is meant by common conceptions, this is clearly a Socratic commonplace. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
690
s t o i c   e t h i c s
when we reflect on the full range of values we will simply come to see that virtue holds a special place. They also claim that careful consideration of genuine benefit will lead us to their understanding of the good. And finally, the appeal of order to a rational being like man also plays a crucial role. 
vi Values, actions and choice
Stoic ethics is fundamentally agent-centred. This is only to be expected, in view  of  the  tradition  they  inherited.  Since  Socrates,  mainstream  Greek philosophical  ethics  had  focused  primarily  on  the  care  of  the  soul,  the e◊ort to make one's soul as good as possible. The central place of agents coheres with their role in the evaluative scheme used by the Stoics. But evaluation is only one function of ethical writing, and the Stoics put at least  as  much  emphasis  on  argument  and  persuasion  aimed  at  moral improvement,  and  on  providing  guidance  for  the  di√cult  business  of engaging in rational choice. As we shall see, the Stoic theory of how such choices are made plays an integral role in their educative scheme. For one of the most important paths to the improvement of the agent's character is  through  the  quality  of  the  moral  choices  he  makes.  Like  Plato  and Aristotle, the Stoics too think of agents as making moral progress by exercising their capacity for rational choice in a way which leads to virtue. 
Insofar as they wished not just to judge agents but to guide and change them, an approach which goes beyond the starkly evaluative point of view was needed. To convince an agent to change his actions or thoughts one must begin from a starting point already held by that agent. Typically that will  involve  a  concern  with  things  outside  the  agent  himself.  For  the immediate  focus  of  concern  for  an  agent  is  typically  the  intentional objects of his actions, both things and states of a◊airs. These must be the starting  point  for  reasoning  with  a  moral  agent  about  moral  improvement, even if they do not themselves determine the central doctrines of Stoic ethics. 
This double focus is characteristic of Stoic ethical thought, and in considering Stoic ethics it will be necessary to move back and forth between what we might call the evaluative and the educative frames of reference. 
We shall see that some of the paradoxes and alleged confusion in Stoic ethics are a product of this double frame of reference. But let us begin with a consideration of the moral life, a life of choices about actions, from the agent's point of view. 
*
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
v a l u e s ,   a c t i o n s   a n d   c h o i c e 691
Every moral agent is working towards living a life according to nature. 
His own nature and that of the world in which he lives (the only kind of world in which his own nature could possibly exist) are such that if he should succeed in this aim his life will be a life of virtue. Such an agent faces, as any human must, a series of choices; no coherent life is possible without  choosing  to  act.  But  each  action  has  considerable  intentional content, and so is 'about' something, some object or state of a◊airs in the world. 
The  Stoic  theory  of  good,  bad,  and  indi◊erent  things  concerns  such objects and states of a◊airs.45 The English term 'things' is of course a bit misleading  here:  it  may  suggest  concrete  individual  objects.  The  Greek terms, however, do not entail that. The neuter plural form of an adjective serves to pick out a wide range of entities and types of entities, grouped together  as  objects  of  human  concern.  The  part  of  Stoic  theory  which deals with such objects is designed to help the moral agent make those choices which promote progress towards the final goal of a life according to nature, by clarifying the character of those entities. 
There are discussions about good things and bad things in all of our main doxographical sources; and much of our other evidence on Stoic ethics also concerns this theme. But if we put ourselves in the place of the typical moral agent, the theory of indi◊erent things is far more pressing. 
After all, good is restricted to virtue and what 'participates' in virtue, and bad to vice and what 'participates' in vice;46 and the ordinary moral agent does not yet have access to virtue; and vice is (according to the Stoics) the state in which ordinary people live at all times, a state to which the only alternative is perfection. Hence it can hardly be an immediately relevant object of choice for most people. The claim which lies behind this understanding  of  goodness,  that  such  a  good  is  the  only  genuine  'benefit', expresses  the  motivational  hold  that  goodness  has  over  the  agent.  But until the agent has made considerable philosophical and moral progress ( prokope-),  such  an  abstract  claim  can  do  little  to  a◊ect  his  choices  and moral reasoning. What it can do is to keep him focused on the ultimate goal of his enterprise and to remind him of the provisional character of any interim and partial successes. 
Most actions and moral choices deal directly with things which would be called indi◊erent; this becomes apparent when a typical list of indi◊erent 45 This  classificatory  scheme  is  made  the  opening  theme  of  Stobaeus'  Stoic  doxography (ii.57.18-58.4),  and  underlies  parts  of  the  organization  of  Cicero's  and  Diogenes  Laertius'
presentations. Its centrality for Chrysippus is confirmed by the fragment from Plu.  Stoic. Rep. 
1035c quoted at the beginning of this chapter. 
46 D.L. vii.94; Stob. ii.57.20-58.4. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
692
s t o i c   e t h i c s
things is set out: life and death, health and illness, pleasure and discomfort, good looks and ugliness, physical strength and weakness, wealth and poverty, good and bad reputation, high and low birth (D.L. vii.102), and also natural  ability,  skill,  even  moral  progress  itself  and  their  opposites  (D.L. 
vii.106), etc. With a generous interpretation of the ' et cetera', it is fair to say that  such  things  constitute  the  explicit  and  immediate  objects  of  most human concern and striving. That they are of considerable importance in the eyes of the Stoics is clear from their description of them as 'those things which  stimulate  pursuit  or  avoidance'  [ horme-,  aphorme-],  in  contrast  to utterly insignificant things such as whether the number of hairs on one's head  is  odd  or  even,  or  the  precise  position  of  one's  finger  when  it  is extended (D.L. vii.104-5). Moreover, if such trivialities are set aside, then what is left can be divided into 'preferred' and 'dispreferred' things, and these can be described as having positive or negative value (D.L. vii.105).47
Things which are not good or bad are indi◊erent, but as Stobaeus notes at one point, 'indi◊erent' is a relative concept (ii.80.8-9).48 What makes a di◊erence or is indi◊erent can only be understood with respect to something else. 'Indi◊erent' here is a matter of not making a di◊erence to the goal  of  life.  The  indi◊erents  are  described  not  just  as  things  which  lie between good and bad, being neither, but also as things which make no contribution to a happy or unhappy life.49
Despite this, indi◊erents (at least those which are preferred or dispreferred)  are  of  fundamental  importance  to  the  moral  agent.  This  importance is reinforced by their close connection to the concept of nature, a connection  rooted  in  the  fundamental  teleological  fact  of   oikeio-sis.50
While they may not make a di◊erence to the goal of life, they do matter greatly  for  the  so-called  natural  life.  When  discussing  the  concept  of value, Diogenes Laertius sums this up neatly:
They say that one sort of value is a contribution to the life in agreement, and this applies to every good; but another sort [of value] is an intermediate potential or usefulness which contributes to the life according to nature, as much as to say, just that [value] which wealth and health bring forward for [promoting] the life according to nature. (D.L. vii.105) The natural life as understood here is evidently a life of the sort which is naturally worthwhile for a human, which is teleologically adapted for the 47 See further Ausland 1989, 380-90, whose discussion is excessively concerned with supposed parallelisms with Pyrrhonian 'theory'. 
48 Cf.  SVF  iii 145. 
49 Stob. ii.79.16-17; 80.9-13. That happiness is the reference point for 'indi◊erence' should not be surprising; the goal is 'that to which everything else is referred'. 
50 Cf. Inwood 1985, ch. 6; and see further Plu.  Comm. Not.  1060c. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
v a l u e s ,   a c t i o n s   a n d   c h o i c e 693
human  organism  and  which  provides  a  justifiable  satisfaction  for  the human agent. But it is not a life characterized by agreement with nature in any larger sense. 
Preferred indi◊erents are clearly 'according to nature' and dispreferred things  'contrary  to  nature'.51 So  important  are  such  things  that Chrysippus  can  say,  'as  long  as  the  consequences  are  unclear  to  me,  I always  cling  to  what  is  better  suited  to  getting  what  is  according  to nature. For God himself made me such as to select these things' (Epict. 
 Diss. ii.6.9). 
The moral agent spends a good part of his time dealing with the preferred things, making decisions and choices among them. The challenge for Stoic moral theory and practice, then, is not to motivate moral agents to pay attention to such things nor even to put a positive value on the preferred things; people will do that on their own. Rather, it is to induce them to do so in the way which will bring them closer to virtue. This is an important  point  to  stress,  since  some  schools  (notably  Cynicism, Pythagoreanism,  and  possibly  some  ascetic  brands  of  Platonism)  and even some members of the Stoic school (notably Aristo of Chios), aimed to pry people loose from their normal attachment to naturally preferred things. We will deal below with the challenge to the mainstream Stoic approach from within, but it is worth noting first that on this point the school in general was true to its policy of respecting 'common conceptions'. Indeed, Chrysippus allows the occasional use of ordinary terminology for preferred indi◊erents, calling them 'goods' as long as the real sense is clear. This exposes him to criticism and misguided ridicule at the hands of Plutarch ( Stoic. Rep.  1048a), and indeed led to charges of incoherence. 
Because  they  relied  heavily  on  common-sensical  ideas  about  what  is important  to  a  moral  agent,  the  Stoics  had  to  be  explicit  in  their  arguments for the di◊erence between what is preferred and what is actually good. Hence in Diogenes' doxographical summary we are told (vii.102-3) that indi◊erents are those things which are neither good nor bad, and this class is immediately described further as the set of things which 'neither benefit nor harm' the moral agent. The basis for this position is that good has a distinctive property ( idion), namely to benefit and not harm, a property which operates as certainly and as necessarily as the calorific property 51 Stob. ii.79.20-82.19, esp. 80.4-13 and 81.3-4; D.L. vii.105-7. See too Inwood 1985, 197-20 0. 
Though the school in general agreed that pleasure is indi◊erent (except in the sense of a  pathos), there was considerable controversy about whether to count it as preferred. See e.g. Cic.  Fin. 
iii.117, S.E.  M  xi.73. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
694
s t o i c   e t h i c s
of the hot.52 The argument is completed by the premiss that indi◊erent things  like  wealth  and  health  benefit  moral  agents  no  more  ( ou  mallon) than harm them. This is a Socratic argument in origin, though one which became widespread. It is supplemented in Diogenes by a second Socratic claim, that something cannot be good if it is capable of being used well or badly; this too is turned into an argument by a second premiss, viz. that health and wealth can be used well or badly.53
The  emphasis  of  these  arguments  is  on  the  di◊erence  between  preferred things and good things, which is central from a moral-pedagogical point of view, especially for a school which gave great weight to our natural preference for what might be called the 'good' things in life and chose nevertheless to distinguish them sharply from genuine goods. Other arguments,  of  less  distinguished  pedigree,  were  also  used.  Thus  we  read  in Clement  ( Strom.  iv.5  [⫽ SVF  iii 150])  that  bodily  health  and  disease  are indi◊erent because they do not cause vice or virtue in the soul. And Seneca in  Ep.  87 gives a list of the characteristic properties of goodness: that it does  make  people  good,  that  it  cannot  come  to  evil  and  contemptible men, that it does not come from what is bad, that the pursuit of it does not lead us into evils. Hence any prima facie desirable thing which contradicts these  characteristics cannot  be  good, and must be regarded at best as a preferred indi◊erent. The list of preferred things generated here includes the results of luck, wealth and riches.54 Similarly ( Ep.  85.30) pain and poverty are rescued from being bad on the grounds that they lack the characteristic feature of bad things, which is that they do real harm to the moral agent.55
How do the indi◊erents feature in the reasoning of a moral agent? The quotation from Chrysippus above gives us some clue. They are generally the object of an agent's e◊orts and activities, although the value of pursuing preferred things can be overridden if 'the consequences' become clear and indicate otherwise. The meaning of this reference to consequences is not immediately obvious, but most likely it contains at least an allusion to the  longer-term  benefits  or  disadvantages  to  be  had  from  a  particular action.56 It could be that the pursuit of wealth in a given case will turn out 52 This is apparently based on a 'Socratic' argument. See  Rep.  i.335 b-d. 
53 Cf. Plato  Grg.  467-8,  Euthd.  278-82,  Men.  87-9, Xen.  Mem.  iv.6.8. 
54 Alexander of Aphrodisias ( SVF  iii 152) has a very similar argument to exclude wealth from being good. The major premiss is: what comes to be through bad is not good. 
55 The argument in Alex.  Ethical Problems  1 (⫽  SVF  iii 165) to the e◊ect that life itself is not a good is  probably  Stoic,  and  betrays  its  Socratic  origins  both  in  its  use  of  an  analogy  with  a  craft (navigation) and in its contrast between living and living well. 
56 Inwood 1985, 120-1 argues that the consequences mentioned here also contain a reference to the providentially ordered and determined plan of events in the world. Hence, any decision to Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
v a l u e s ,   a c t i o n s   a n d   c h o i c e 695
to impair other interests, such as the preservation of one's health or the development  of  virtue.  There  are  also  unusual  circumstances  to  take account of, which might suggest that in the concrete case before him the agent should pass up the chance to choose a preferred thing.57 And it is perfectly possible that two preferred things might be incompatible in the case at hand: it is easy to imagine that a preferred activity of soul, such as developing one of the crafts which 'can make an extensive contribution to the life according to nature' (Stob. ii.81.3-4), might be incompatible with a  bodily  good  such  as  increasing  one's  physical  strength  -  every  hour spent in the gym is one less hour spent in learned reflection. In such a case the choice would be clear, though perhaps not easy.58 The importance of making such choices among indi◊erents is, presumably, part of the reason for specifying the distinction between intrinsic (δι' αυ/τα!) and indirect (δι' ε1τερα) indi◊erents.59 Most important of all, some indi◊erents will tend to promote the acquisition of virtue and some will (at least sometimes) tend to hinder it; keeping in mind the ultimate importance of the good will aid with such choices. 
Clearly there is a need for a general plan or method to help the moral agent  to  balance  such  considerations,  the  sort  of  thing  referred  to  as  a
'method of selection'.60 Part of such a method would consist in the specification of preferred and dispreferred things; part would overlap with or even consist in the parainetic activity to be discussed below and would be reflected in the casuistry for which later Stoics eventually become famous
- perhaps one should say 'notorious'. 
One important observation which emerges from this way of looking at the indi◊erents is that the theory and the recommendations it makes to agents  as  an  aid  in  their  moral  choices  operate  on  the  level  of  general truths.  For  example,  it  is  generally  the  case  that  health  is  preferable  to pursue a preferred thing has to be provisional until one finds out whether attaining it is fated to happen or not. 
57 See N. P. White 1978, though his discussion deals with actions. On actions see below, but the point is also valid for things and states of a◊airs. 
58 Preferred psychic attributes are more important than bodily because of the soul's rôle in living a  life  according  to  nature  (Stob.  ii.81.19-82.4).  This  relative  valuation  is  traditional  and unproblematic:  see  e.g.  Plato   Prt.  313  on  the  relative  importance  of  body  and  soul.  But  it  is characteristically Stoic to ground it in the central importance of life according to nature. 
59 D.L. vii.107; Stob. ii.72.19-25; see too  SVF  iii 133-5. See also Stob. ii.82.11-83.9 for two further  distinctions,  between  primary  natural  things  and  those  which  are  derivatively  natural (κατα' µετοχη!ν) and between καθ' αυ/τα! and ποιητικα! natural things. These distinctions would all prove useful in a deliberative setting. 
60 ο/δο!ν τινα ε0κλεκτικη!ν: Stob. ii.73.14. The reference here is to a much narrower method, one which helps the agent to choose from among the generally useful crafts those which will aid in the development of virtue. But that the Stoics recognized the general need should be clear. I would suggest that the art of living (τε!χνη του4 βι!ου) is in part such a method. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
696
s t o i c   e t h i c s
sickness, but (as the debate with Aristo highlighted) it is sometimes the case that sickness is preferable.61 From the occasional or even fairly frequent preferability of something classed as dispreferred an important lesson  can  be  learned.62 For  we  can  use  it  to  confirm  that  the  theory  of indi◊erents operates on the level of types not tokens; this is shown by the way Aristo uses it to impugn the usefulness of the mainstream theory. 
As Sextus reports it, Aristo's attack starts from the claim that on the normal Stoic theory to call a thing 'preferred' is the same as deeming it to be  'good'.  The  reason  for  this  claim  is  revealing:  there  is  in  general  no di◊erence  among  those  things  intermediate  between  virtue  and  vice; there is no natural or necessary ( M  xi.65) link between preferred things and choosing them in a specific case, nor between dispreferred things and rejecting them in a specific case. The coupling of 'natural' and 'necessary'
is  the  instructive  point.  A  mainstream  Stoic  would  have  no  hesitation about  there  being  a  natural  connection  between  preferred  status  and choice. But for him 'natural' would not  mean 'necessary'; as we have seen, something  good  or  bad  would  be  so  both  naturally  and  necessarily, because it has a fixed property peculiar to itself. 
When  Aristo  conflates  'natural'  and  'necessary'  important  changes ensue.  If  a  natural  connection  between  the  preferability  of   x  and  the choosing  of   x  must  mean  that  one  necessarily  chooses  it  in  all  circumstances, then the natural preferability of  x  must be rejected. This is what Aristo  does,  denying  that  anything  is  naturally  preferable  except  the good. But a mainstream Stoic does not accept that interpretation of 'natural'. As Chrysippus would say, things are naturally preferable if choosing them  is  rooted  (by  God)  in  our  nature  in  such  a  way  that  if  the  consequences are unclear (as seems to be the normal case) one chooses them. 
Aristo's  insistence  on  a  necessary  connection  between  the  natural  and preferred status of something and choosing it betrays a determination to make moral recommendations about concrete token-actions rather than types,  or  at  best  about  types  every  token  of  which  necessarily  has  the attribute 'good'; for only a class of actions or intentional objects of action every member of which is to be chosen can be described as worth choosing in this strong sense. And both Aristo and the mainstream Stoic would 61 S.E.  M  xi.64-7. On Aristo, see Ioppolo 1980a and more recently Ausland 1989, 381-9, Striker 1991, 14-24. 
62 See too the argument about indi◊erents in D.L.  vii.103: Hecaton says that pleasure is not a good because there are some shameful pleasures. Clearly the pleasures which are shameful are more specific than the generalized pleasure which is indi◊erent. So when pleasure is said to be indi◊erent the Stoics are talking about a type - only types all tokens of which are good can be called good. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
v a l u e s ,   a c t i o n s   a n d   c h o i c e 697
agree that only actions with 'good' or 'virtue' as the relevant part of their intentional content would meet this standard. 
Mainstream  Stoics  did  not  insist  on  the  necessary  connection  which Aristo  demanded  and  were  prepared  to  talk  about  natural  preferability (preferred status) without insisting that it represent a class every token member of which is worth choosing.63 Perhaps Aristo's view that there was nothing intermediate between good and bad was motivated by a concern to avoid granting any ontological standing to a mere generalization. 
After all, every token action was agreed to be either good or bad, so why court the kind of criticism such a view might attract from Arcesilaus?64
But even while pointing out the di◊erence between his stance and that of the school in general we should stress what they share. When we move from the level of types or general classes to the level of individual objects and situations the mainstream view and that of Aristo tend to converge. 
Though the mainstream Stoic would assert and Aristo would deny that good health is something preferred, they would both agree that in a given individual case, with all relevant factors specified and known by the moral agent, the virtuous person would have but one correct choice, and that the wrong choice would indicate that the agent was not virtuous.65
*
Choosing what to do on particular occasions is central to the life of any moral agent. We must accordingly conclude the present section by laying some  groundwork  for  the  discussion  to  be  pursued  in  later  sections. 
Several central concepts bear on the question of choice. First and most general66 is the notion of the appropriate67 ( kathe-kon). The appropriate is something, usually a possible action, which is natural to the animal in the sense that it would normally enhance its normal and healthy way of life. 
Hence it would be a fit object of pursuit. The standard definition of the appropriate  is  'that  which,  when  done,  admits  of  a  reasonable justification', something which makes sense in terms of the nature of the 63 See below on the two kinds of 'choice' recognized by Stoic theory: choice proper (of the good) and selection. 
64 Note that Arcesilaus treated  katale-psis  in just this way (see S.E.  M  vii.153). He argued that every token  katale-psis  either occurred in a sage (in which case it should be called knowledge) or in a fool (in which case it should be called opinion); consequently the general term   katale-psis  is a mere name with no correlate in the real world. Aristo's position is safe from such an attack, while the general Stoic position is not. 
65 Though the right choice would not prove that he was virtuous; see below on appropriate acts. 
66 As Arius Didymus (Stob. ii.85.15-17) notes, the 'appropriate' pertains to animals too, 'since even they act in accord with their own nature'. At D.L. vii.107 it is noted that even plants have something appropriate to them. 
67 Long and Sedley translate 'proper function'. See their discussion: 1987, i.365. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
698
s t o i c   e t h i c s
animal  in  question.  Impressions  of  'the  immediately  appropriate'  are what stimulate the impulse to action (Stob. ii.86.17-18). A special case of the appropriate which is relevant to humans is the morally right action ( katortho-ma),  sometimes  defined  as  a  'perfect  appropriate  action',  one which 'has all the numbers'.68 It is an action which has the completeness and self-contained quality which accompanies virtue and the happy life. 
Evidently the same action can be both appropriate and morally right; deciding what is appropriate in the circumstances of action is a necessary but not su√cient condition for morally right action. The additional factors  needed  to  ensure  virtuous  action  (and  so  happiness)  can  only  be described in the context of an account of Stoic views on moral education. 
But  an  important  paraphrase  of  Chrysippus'  views  establishes  that  the crucial additional factor turns on stability of character: 'he who has made the greatest possible progress carries out in every respect all the appropriate actions and omits none. But his life is not yet happy; happiness comes to him when these intermediate actions acquire the stability which comes with character and take on a certain fixity which is all their own' (Stob. 
v.906.18-907.5 =  SVF  iii 510; see also below p. 726). 
Another important contrast is that between selection and choice.69 In Stoic philosophy of mind, every human action represents a kind of decision,  since  it  can  only  be  an  action  if  it  is  the  result  of  an  assent  to  the impression  that  the  thing  in  question  should  in  fact  be  done.  And  the assent is given to actions under descriptions, as one might say today. As far as we can tell from the fragmentary remains of early Stoic technical terminology, the two most important kinds of action were labelled 'selection'
( ekloge-)  and  'choice'  ( hairesis).  The  former  picked  out  actions  aimed  at what is natural or appropriate to the agent in the circumstances; the latter describes actions aimed at under the description 'good', actions which the agent decides on not just because they are appropriate but because they embody  the  good  (i.e.  moral  virtue  or  what  partakes  in  it).  Thus  any
'choice'  in  the  technical  sense  is  also  a  selection  of  some  appropriate action, an assent to what is fitting for that agent in the circumstances; but it also entails an unconditional commitment to the course of action just because  it  embodies  the  good,  the  central  and  unconditionally  natural value which motivates every rational animal. Moral education will involve not just the cultivation of habits which conduce to correct selection, but 68 See Cic.  Fin.  iii.24, Stob. ii.85.18-20, 93.14-16. This obscure phrase is normally interpreted to mean that the action covers all necessary and relevant aspects and answers to all natural and rational requirements. For a novel interpretation in terms of musical metaphor see Long 1991b. 
69 See Inwood 1985, 201-15, 238-40. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
p a s s i o n s
699
also those which guide the agent to such selections as embodiments of the good. 
vii Passions70
Assent and practical decision are central to Stoic ethics. But as we shall see,  most  agents  fail  to  use  their  rationality  properly.  The  summary  in Diogenes Laertius catches this well: 'from falsehoods there arises in the mind corruption; this is the source of many passions, and they are responsible  for  instability'  (vii.110).  Having  imperfectly  developed  rational souls,  people  make  mistakes,  commit  themselves  to  false  propositions, and so further corrupt their own reason. The most evident result of such psychological weakness is the occurrence of passions ( pathe-). 
A  passion  is  a  mental  or  emotional  event  produced  by  an  excessive impulse ( pleonazousa horme-); it is an 'irrational and unnatural motion of the soul' (D.L. vii.110). It is variously described by early Stoics either as being a result of a mistaken opinion (about the relevant subject matter) or as itself being such a mistaken opinion. Zeno is typically associated with the former view and Chrysippus with the latter. But despite all the controversy there is not much to choose between these two versions of the theory.71 In  the  context  of  Stoic  philosophy  of  mind,  the  distinction comes down to a matter of emphasis, not substance. What distinguishes the Stoic theory most clearly is the conviction that passions are causally dependent  on  intellectual  mistakes  about  values,  that  in  principle  one eliminates passions and the underlying psychological instability by correcting  one's  beliefs.72 This  stands  in  marked  contrast  to  the  general approach taken by Plato, Aristotle, and their followers in later antiquity, though it bears a marked kinship with the intellectualism of Socrates in earlier Platonic dialogues, especially the  Protagoras. 
A consequence of this approach to rationality and moral error is that the Stoics must take what seemed to many in antiquity a rather strange stance on the issue of weak will ( akrasia): they do not explain erratic or unstable  behaviour  and  moral  error  as  the  result  of  an  undisciplined power in the soul which disturbs the proper function of reason. In cases of weak  will,  people  are  not  wrestling  with  irrational  forces  inside  themselves; they are merely muddled in their moral decisions. Their inconsistent  behaviour  is  a  result  of  rapidly  shifting  and  unstable  moral 70 See Lloyd 1978a, Frede 1986b, Striker 1991, 61-72, Nussbaum 1987. 
71 See Inwood 1985, 130-1. 
72 Nussbaum 1987; Inwood 1985, ch. 5. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
700
s t o i c   e t h i c s
decisions.73 This  kind  of  instability  is,  of  course,  just  what  one  would expect if the agent is committed to conflicting principles. 
The Stoics divided the passions into four groups, each of which is indicated by a general term: fear ( phobos), desire ( epithumia), pain ( lupe-), pleasure ( he-done-).74 Fear and desire are the primary types; they are concerned with the apparent good and the apparent bad in the future, as objects of striving  or  avoidance.  The  other  two  types  also  deal  with  the  apparent good and bad, but in a reactive way. Desire is what we feel about what we believe to be good, do not have, and might be able to get;75 pleasure is what  we  feel  about  what  we  believe  to  be  good  and  believe  we  have.76
Conversely for fear and pain.77 It is because people are wrong about these values that their reactions are excessive and inappropriate. 
*
Organized under each of these four types of passion are many specific passions. The summary in Stobaeus captures the spirit of this project of classification:
Under desire are subsumed such [passions] as these: anger and its forms (spiritedness and irascibility and wrath and rancour and bitterness and such things), vehement sexual desire and longing and yearning and love of pleasure and love of wealth and love of reputation and similar things. 
Under  pleasure  are  mean-spirited  satisfaction,  contentment,  charms, and similar things. Under fear are hesitation, agony, shock, shame, panic, superstition, fright, and dread. Under pain are envy, grudging, resent-ment, pity, grief, heavy-heartedness, distress, sorrow, anguish, and vexa-tion. (Stob. ii.90.19-91.9)
The fine distinctions are of course specifically appropriate to Greek culture.78 But the nature of the attempt should be clear. A comprehensive range  of  wrong  or  counterproductive  a◊ective  states  are  grouped  compactly  in  a  scheme  which  displays  the  importance  of  mistaken  beliefs about central moral values. The educative goal of improving men's characters is dramatically shaped by the role assigned to false belief. 
A passion is, like an action, a reaction to an impression; the way things 73 Plu.  Virt. Mor.  446f-447a. See too Inwood 1985, 132-9; Gill 1983, Gosling 1987. 
74 D.L. vii.110; Stob.  Ecl. ii.88.12-21. 
75 Hence it is described as an α3λογο ο3ρεξι. 
76 It is described as an α3λογο ε3παρσι. The term ε3παρσι indicates both a feeling of 'uplift' (a reasonable attempt to capture metaphorically the a◊ective reaction which partially constitutes pleasure), and a physical expansion of the material stu◊ of the soul. 
77 α3λογο ε3κκλισι, συστολη! respectively. 
78 The Peripatetics likewise engaged in detailed classification of virtues and vices: witness not only Aristotle's  own  ethical  writings,  but  e.g.  the  later  pseudo-Aristotelian   Virtues  and  Vices.  The short  treatise   On  Passions  attributed  to  Andronicus  of  Rhodes  (closely  linked  to   Virtues  and Vices), is a valuable source of information for the Stoic theory of the passions. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
p a s s i o n s
701
look to the agent gives him his starting point. And also like an action, a passion cannot occur unless the agent gives his assent to the way things look and to the notion that a certain course of action is reasonable. Hence in the fuller descriptions of the beliefs which trigger episodes of passion considerable complexity is apparent:79
They say, then, that desire is a striving which is disobedient to reason; its cause is believing that a good is approaching, and that when it is here we shall do well by it; this opinion itself <that it really is worth striving for> has a <fresh> [power] to stimulate erratic motion. Fear is an avoidance disobedient  to  reason,  and  its  cause  is  believing  that  a  bad  thing  is approaching; this opinion that it really is worth  avoiding has  a 'fresh'
[power] to stimulate motion. Pain is a contraction of the soul disobedient to reason, and its cause is believing that a 'fresh' bad thing is present, for which it is appropriate to <su◊er contraction [in the soul]. Pleasure is an elation of the soul disobedient to reason, and its cause is believing that a fresh good thing is present, for which it is appropriate to> su◊er uplift
[in the soul]. (Stob. ii.90.7-18)
In a passion the agent judges that his a◊ective response is appropriate to himself and the situation. And of course that will be false. When the thing we believe to be good is not really good, then uplift is not the rationally defensible (hence appropriate) reaction. Of course, if the thing present to us really were good and were recognized as such, then uplift in the soul would be appropriate: but then, we would not have a passion ( pathos), but a good a◊ective response ( eupatheia), in this case joy ( chara).80
An  important  aspect  of  the  nature  of  passion  is  the  'freshness'  mentioned in this extract. It is that factor in the experience of an event or state of a◊airs which evokes the contraction or uplift.81 It may fade with time; or it may persist incomprehensibly. The freshness is closely connected to the judgement that contraction or uplift is appropriate. Hence one may cease to experience the uplift or contraction characteristic of a passion if the freshness fades. But the false opinion about what is good and bad may well remain in the soul, a crucial component in the unstable character of the non-virtuous man.82
Arguably the most disturbing and destructive aspect of a passion is the 79 The supplements to this text indicated by diamond brackets are relatively uncontroversial. 
80 Cautious avoidance (ευ0λα!βεια) is the correct counterpart to fear; 'wish' (βου!λησι) to desire. 
There seems to be no virtuous counterpart to pain; if there were one, it would have to be the appropriate response to the presence to a virtuous agent of something genuinely bad, i.e., vice. 
And that just does not happen. On ευ0πα!θειαι see further Inwood 1985, 173-5. 
81 Stob. ii.89.2-3; cf. Cic.  Tusc.  iii.74-5. More detail at Inwood 1985, 146-55. 
82 The Stoics routinely compared the underlying unstable character traits to bodily diseases or weaknesses (the comparison goes back at least to Plato ( Rep. iv)). See Kidd 1983. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
702
s t o i c   e t h i c s
accompanying sense of being out of control. When strongly committed to an a◊ective stance or course of action on the basis of a mistaken belief that its object is good or bad, it is natural that this commitment take on a feeling of irreversibility. The comparison of a man in the grip of a passion to runaway motion turns up in the doxographical survey,83 but goes back to Chrysippus himself. We owe to Galen's polemical verbosity the important quotation which outlines Chrysippus' view:84
The excess of the impulse was also spoken of in terms of this, because they overstep the boundary of impulses which is proper to themselves and natural. What I say would be made easier to understand by means of the following examples. In walking according to impulse the movement of the legs is not excessive, but is in a sense coextensive with the impulse, so that it  can  come  to  a  standstill  when  he  [sc.  the  walker]  wishes,  or  change direction. But in the case of those who are running according to impulse, this  sort  of  thing  is  no  longer  the  case,  but  the  movement  of  the  legs exceeds the impulse so that it is carried away and does not change direction obediently in this way as soon as they start to do so. I think something  similar  to  these  movements  [of  the  legs]  occurs  in  the  impulses because of the overstepping of the symmetry which is according to reason, so that whenever one has an impulse he is not obedient with respect to it, the excess being said to be beyond the impulse in the case of the running and beyond reason in the case of impulse. For the symmetry of natural  impulse  is  that  according  to  reason  and  is  as  far  as  reason  deems proper. There since the overstepping is according to this [standard] and in this way, the impulse is said to be excessive and an unnatural and irrational movement of the soul. (Gal.  PHP  iv.2.14-18 [⫽ SVF  iii 462]) However we understand the reason whose bounds are overstepped,85 it is clear that the sense of being out of control is aptly figured by the comparison to a runner. Someone who is running has a momentum which makes his  bodily  motions  not  immediately  subject  to  control.  No  one,  when running, can stop 'on a dime'. Similarly in a passion: no one in the grip of a passion, committed to feelings or activities driven by mistaken evaluative judgements, can instantly regain his composure, equanimity and self-control when he wishes. We are left trembling in fright for a while after we recognize that what shocked us is not really harmful. We are left with a sense of empty longing even after we accept that the death of an aged loved one was a blessing and not a tragedy. The psychological inertia of 83 Stob. ii.89.6-9 This is a curious text, speaking of a disobedient horse. It is arguably in conflict with the monism of conventional Stoicism. 
84 See ch. 17, pp. 582-3. 
85 Probably normative right reason is in question. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
p a s s i o n s
703
erroneous value judgements is so great that the best cure is to avoid such erroneous judgements to begin with. And that is the task of moral education. 
The underlying error is not that one cares about things at all; for many of  the  things  which  provoke  passions  are  indeed  worth  caring  about. 
Serious physical harm may not be a bad thing, but it is certainly dispreferred. The passion 'fear' ensues when one reacts to the prospect of such harm as though it were in fact bad. But what is the proper form of reaction? Not, surely, complete equanimity. The Stoics did not expect men to stand  around  inertly  while  things  contrary  to  nature  threatened.86
Avoidance and even concern about such a prospect was perfectly in order, providing it was kept within the proper, rational and natural boundaries Chrysippus recognized. The way to do that was evidently by a form of emotional management characterized by a moral stance dubbed 'reservation'  ( hupexhairesis).87As  several  later  Stoics  make  clear,88 reservation involved making a tentative or conditional commitment to a course of action in the world. We might desire health, but only if it turns out to be fated for us. If serious obstacles arise to our e◊orts, then it is a sign that we  should  accept  the  illness  which  comes  our  way.89 Our  pursuit  or avoidance of things which are merely preferred is protected by this conditional commitment. The uncontrollable inertia which sweeps us into a passion  is  the  result  of  approaching  actions  and  feelings  which  are indi◊erent to the goal of life as though they were crucial to it (as the good or the bad would be). Turbulence in life is the result of uncontrolled and unregulated engagement, not of engagement in any form. In regard to such  things  one  should  act,  as  Epictetus  says,  'lightly,  reservedly,  and gently' ( Ench. 2). That is the secret of the smooth flow of life, true  apa-
 theia. 
Finally, one further aspect of the Stoic theory of the passions demands notice, though it will be di√cult to determine with confidence what the earliest  Stoics  thought  about  it.90 The  existence  and  importance  of a◊ective reactions which are not subject to the rational control of assent is hard  to  deny.  It  is  common  to  experience  fearful  or  startled  reactions which we cannot anticipate or repress, which we su◊er even before our rational faculties can react. A sudden loud noise startles us, even though we  might  immediately  deny  our  assent  to  the  notion  that  something 86 Compare the doctrine of  confatalia. See p. 534. 
87 Inwood 1985, 165-73. 
88 E.g. Sen.  Tranq. An.  13.2-3,  Ben.  iv.34.4, Marc. Aur. vi.50, Stob. ii.115.5-9, Epict.  Ench.  2. 
89 Compare the remarks of Chrysippus quoted at Epict.  Diss. ii.6.9-10; above p. 693. 
90 Further discussion and bibliography: Inwood 1985, 175-81, Inwood 1993. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
704
s t o i c   e t h i c s
frightful is occurring. What is the nature of such reactions (called  propa-
 theiai  or 'preliminary passions' by the tradition)? 
That  the  early  Stoics  were  concerned  with  the  question  seems  clear. 
Epictetus held that such reactions did occur in our souls, and Aulus Gellius maintains that his view is consistent with that of Zeno and Chrysippus: Impressions  in  the  mind,  with  which  the  intellect  of  man  is  struck  as soon as the appearance of something which happens reaches the mind, are not voluntary or subject to one's control; but by a force of their own they press themselves on men to be acknowledged. But the assents . . . by which the same impressions are acknowledged are voluntary and occur under  human  control.  Therefore,  when  some  frightening  sound  from the sky or a collapsing building or the sudden announcement of some danger or something else of the sort occurs, it is inevitable that even a wise man's soul be moved for a short while and be contracted and grow pale, not because he has formed an opinion of anything bad, but because of certain rapid and unreflective movements which forestall the proper function of the intellect and reason. Soon, though, the wise man withholds his assent . . . from such impressions . . . but he rejects and refuses them and judges that there is nothing in them to be feared. And they say that the di◊erence between the mind of the wise man and that of the fool is that the fool thinks that the violent and harsh impressions which first strike his mind really are as they seem; and he also confirms with his own assent these initial reactions, just as though they really were to be feared, and he 'adds to the initial reactions a further opinion' (for the Stoics use this word [ prosepidoxazei] when they discuss the matter). The wise man, however, when he has been a◊ected briefly and in a limited fashion in his colour  and  expression,  does  not  assent  but  retains  the  condition  and strength of the opinion which he always had about such presentations, as things not at all worthy of being feared which try to frighten us with a false show and empty dread. (Gell. xix.1.14-20)
An important passage of Seneca's  De Ira (i.16.7) attributes a similar view to Zeno: 'for, as Zeno says, there remains even in the soul of the wise man, even  when  his  wound  has  healed,  a  scar.  Therefore  he  will  feel  certain hints and shadows of passions, but passions themselves he will not have.'
The  views  Seneca  adopts  in  Book  ii of  the  same  treatise  are  somewhat more problematic.91
If such views really were those of the early Stoics, they provide an interesting and important complement to their theory of the passions. We are given a picture of the rational soul which is, even at its highest and most 91 Discussed in Inwood 1993. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
m o r a l   e d u c a t i o n   a n d   t h e   p a s s i o n s 705
rational development, vulnerable to transient disturbances. No one, not even the wise man, is immune to some form of upset. What distinguishes the wise man from the rest of us is the 'condition and strength of the opinion which he always had about such impressions'. The wise man has firm convictions about the di◊erence between things which matter for human happiness (the good and the bad, virtue and vice) and things which do not; while remaining humanly vulnerable to the temptations and assaults of the  external  world,  he  stands  uncorrupted  by  them.92 The  passionless wise man is not someone who never feels. But he remains clear-headed about what he feels, distinguishing what makes a di◊erence to happiness from what does not. By keeping this di◊erence firmly in view, he prevents the  transient  upsets  of  life  from  gaining  the  momentum  which  would turn them into passions. 
viii Moral education and the problem of the
passions
This  chapter  has  touched  frequently  on  the  importance  the  Stoics attached to moral development and teaching. They needed a theory, or at least a motivated conception, of the person and ways of influencing the formation of character. The Stoic conception appears to be conditioned by  more  general  presuppositions  about  anthropology  and  psychology accepted in the school. One might put the point schematically by saying that the ancient Stoics recognized the triad of explanatory factors found in previous philosophy from Protagoras to Aristotle:93 nature, habit, reason or teaching. But they restructured this triad in an original way. This is particularly obvious with habit, and is a consequence of their new way of conceiving of the human soul. Where there is no psychic part or function totally detached from reason, it is impossible to speak of  e- thos  as the conditioning of the irrational by means of repeated processes of habituation as distinct from straightforward cognitive processes, that is teaching or the transmission of knowledge directed towards the formation of opinions. Only later representatives of the school, who abandoned orthodox Stoic psychology by making room for parts or functions of the soul that were irrational  per se (because distinct from reason), returned to uninhibited talk of  e- thos  and habituation.94
92 Compare D.L. vii.89. 
93 DK 80 b 3; Arist.  EN  x.9.1179b20-31. The classic triad is directly attributed to the Stoics in  SVF
iii 214. 
94 For example cf. Posidonius in Gal.  PHP  iv.7.7-8 (v 417-18K) and Kidd 1971a, 205-6. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
706
s t o i c   e t h i c s
The Stoics did not ignore the importance of exercise and training in the field  of  virtue.  But  they  preferred  to  speak  of   aske-sis  or   sungymnasia 95
rather than  e- thos: as if the traditional term appeared to them too closely tied to a mistaken conception of man and his psychic constitution. And it is  perhaps  not  insignificant  (unless  this  is  merely  owing  to  gaps  in  our information) that they preferred to speak of 'habit' in descriptions of the origin  of  vice96 or,  at  the  most,  in  connection  with   prokope-,  progress towards virtue, rather than in contexts that directly describe virtue and how it is acquired. Plutarch ( Stoic. Rep.  1043c-d) states that Chrysippus spoke at one point of
those who have made some progress by having been engaged in a certain kind of discipline and habituation, for example at the courts of Leuco and Idanthyrsus. (trans. Cherniss)
One could therefore say that the mechanical repetition of actions and psychic  reactions  suggested  by  the  traditional  concept  of   e- thos  pushed  the Stoics towards use of the term in cases of at least relative imperfection, inertia or passivity of reason. Even in the case of development of bad habits or in that of  prokope-,  e- thos  could be intended to carry a di◊erent sense from that familiar in the Platonic or Aristotelian tradition: not habit in the irrational part of the soul, but the formation of correct or incorrect opinions  about  good  or  evil.97 The  Christian  author  Clement  ( Strom. 
vii.3.19) can assert with supreme confidence that  e
- thos  is the origin not of
virtue but only of vice, an ingenuous but understandable simplification of the Stoic view. 
The other two factors inherited from the tradition, nature and reason (taken as seat of understanding and subject of moral development), were also subjected to revision. In one sense of the word, nature was still considered  as  the  innate  endowments  that  make  every  individual  di◊erent from every other. The importance of these endowments had been recognized from the early days of the school, as is shown by the evidence for Cleanthes and Chrysippus.98 In another sense, more notable because it was tied to general assumptions of Stoic philosophy, nature and reason could  not  be  contrasted  and  were  not  really  di◊erent,  since  reason  was rooted in nature as principle of man and the cosmos. Thus Seneca explains that 'nature has made us capable of receiving teaching; it has given us a 95  Aske-sis  in  SVF  i 370, ii 35, iii 278;  sungymnasia  iii.214. Cf. also the definitions of  techne-  in i 73, ii 93, 95. 
96 E.g. Sen.  Ep.  75.11-13, 85.15, 95.36. On moral progress see below, pp. 724-31. 
97 Note the insistence upon terms such as  opinio  and  sententia  in contexts relevant to the origin of vice, in which the acquisition of bad attitudes is implicit: e.g.  SVF  iii 229; Cic.  Tusc.  iii.2-3. 
98 Gell. vii.2, with Long 1971b, 187 and 197 n. 48. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
m o r a l   e d u c a t i o n   a n d   t h e   p a s s i o n s 707
reason which is imperfect, but which can be brought to a state of perfection' ( Ep.  49.11). One could ask whether this reason, still imperfect when we are infants (this is a fact on which other sources insist),99 should not be included among the natural gifts mentioned above: this would reinforce the argument for identifying nature and reason; and whether, when they speak  of  'natural  tendencies  towards  virtue',100 the  older  Stoics  in  fact meant anything more than the innate predisposition which all men possess to develop rationality within themselves. 
Evidence101 relating  to  a  dispute  about  the  unity  of  virtue  between Aristo and contemporary Stoics (almost certainly Cleanthes and perhaps also Zeno; less probably Chrysippus102) seems to point towards this conclusion. From the fact (admitted even by his opponents) that there is only one  natural  excellence  ( euphuia),  presupposed  by  all  the  virtues,  Aristo thought we should conclude that it could develop only into a single virtue.  The  idea  of  a  single  natural  excellence  was  apparently  prevalent among Zeno's closest disciples; this makes sense if one considers that the original state of the ruling part of the mind was compared by the Stoics in our source to easily-fashioned wax, naturally disposed to receive any representation.103 The text seems thus to imply an original state of mind which could be the embryo of a rationality developed and di◊erentiated into a variety of concepts as much as into di◊erent virtues. The idea of di◊erentiation between natural endowments perhaps originated only as a consequence  of  the  dispute  initiated  by  Aristo  about  the  unity  of  virtue;104 it first appears fully detailed in Panaetius, with his theory of four personae.  According  to  Cicero's  account  ( O◊.  i.107-10)  these  are  the
'roles', the 'parts' which everyone is called upon to play in life: It should also be understood that nature has endowed us with two roles, as it were. One of these is universal, from the fact that we all share in reason and that status which raises us above the beasts; this is the source of all rectitude and propriety and the basis of the rational discovery of our proper functions. The second role is the one which has been specifically assigned to individuals. Just as there are great bodily di◊erences between people . . . so too there are still greater mental divergences . . . To the above-mentioned two roles a third is appended, which some chance or circumstance  imposes:  and  a  fourth  as  well,  which  we  take  upon  ourselves by our own decision. (trans. Long and Sedley)
99 E.g. Sen.  Ep.  120.3; Cic.  Leg.  i.27. 
100 Stob. ii.65.8. 
101 Anon.  In Tht.  xi.12-40. 
102 Schofield 1984, 91. 
103 A probable reading of the papyrus is  phantasia: Luschnat 1958, 20 0 n. 4. 
104 Cf. below, p. 718. On Panaetius' theory of the four  personae  see Rist 1969a, 187; De Lacy 1977, 163-72 and Long and Sedley 1987, i.427. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
708
s t o i c   e t h i c s
So, according to Panaetius, every man would have a primary role assigned by the reason common to all humankind, and a secondary one established for him by inclinations specific to his own physical, temperamental and intellectual nature. A third role is assigned by external circumstances: he can be born in noble or lowly conditions, he can become a military leader or a magistrate. Finally, everyone has a role which he himself chooses for his life by a personal decision. Panaetius exhorts everyone to follow his own inclinations, as long as they are not vicious. But this can be done only by taking account of the requirements of the rational nature common to humanity: these remain the limits and the foundation of every other role. 
One thing always remains clear: that, according to the Stoics, nature initially endows men with enough to orientate them towards goodness and virtue, but not to lead them there; Seneca therefore says ( Ep.  124.13) that we should attribute the acquisition of virtue to the care which man takes of himself rather than to nature. 
Why should natural tendencies not be capable of leading man towards virtue  on  their  own?  Why  is  there  a  need  to  introduce  teaching?  The Stoics' reply to this question is more radical than the one an Aristotelian would give - the latter would probably say that nature can sketch many things in outline but cannot bring them to completion on its own: art, education, teaching are nothing more than an imitation and prolongation of  nature,  and  complete  the  process  which  it  began.105 For  a  Stoic, recourse to education is necessary because in everyone natural tendencies are perverted and distorted right from infancy. This perversion106 shows every sign of being inevitable. A passage in Cicero, certainly influenced by Stoicism, reproduces the principal points of the Stoic position: When we come into the light of day . . . we find ourselves immersed in a corrupt  atmosphere  and  a  sea  of  mistaken  opinions.  It  seems  as  if  we drink in error with our nurse's milk. When we are restored to our parents and handed over to teachers, we are drenched with various species of error . . . We should add also the poets, whom we have to read, listen to, commit to heart, and thus impress deeply in our minds. When we add in also popular opinion, in the role of chief instructor, with the whole mob rushing from all sides to agree on vice, then we are completely corrupted by false opinions and we are alienated from nature. ( Tusc.  iii.2-3) Above  all  there  is  the  irresistible  persuasion  exercised  upon  the  human mind by presentations ( phantasiai), e.g. the first the child is aware of upon 105 For example, see  Protrepticus  fr. b 13 Düring. 
106  Diastrophe-,  diastrephesthai:  SVF  iii 228-36. On this whole topic see Kerferd 1978a, Nussbaum 1987, 162 n. 65a, and Nussbaum 1994, 389 n. 68. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
m o r a l   e d u c a t i o n   a n d   t h e   p a s s i o n s 709
emerging from the womb: brought roughly from a warm, damp environment to the colder air outside, a newborn child has a painful sensation, which the obstetricians try to relieve by bathing in warm water, thereby reproducing the pleasant pre-natal environment.107 From this point the child begins to form the incorrect opinion that what is pleasant is good, and what is painful should be avoided as a bad thing. Then the processes of socialization to which every child is subjected aggravate the situation: the hopes for his material prosperity he hears coming from his nurses or parents;  distorted  values  transmitted  to  him  by  current  teaching,  especially through reading the poets; the inculcation of objectives held in popular esteem - riches, honour, power, fame. The future adult cannot help making errors of judgement, which in their turn give rise to passions and vices. 
This explanation of the origin of vice raises a number of problems. For example,  it  suggests  a  negative  image  of  socializing  processes,  which seems di√cult to reconcile with the idea that the social community is also something natural. But at least it has the merit of clarifying why education and teaching are truly indispensable and why  everyone  without exception is a victim of bad influences (even the wise person, before he becomes such, will have to be freed from the influence of presentations and popular opinions).108
*
Before  Panaetius'  time  the  Stoics  seem  therefore  to  have  concentrated almost  exclusively  on  the  formation  of  rationality  and  thereby  on  the ways  moral  conceptions  are  transmitted.  This  latter  problem  was  discussed by the first generation of Zeno's pupils: we have a record109 of a controversy which divided Cleanthes and Aristo as well as other figures who cannot easily be identified. Under discussion were the merits and e√cacy of what the Latin source, Seneca, identifies by the terms  decreta and  praecepta, i.e. 'doctrines' and 'precepts'. Doctrines were propositions of a general character about ethics and philosophy in general, for example,  the  definition  of  the  goal  of  life,  the  doctrine  of  good  and indi◊erents, the concept of justice (Sen.  Ep.  94.2, 7-8,11). Precepts were 107 The insistence in  SVF  iii 229 on pre-natal experiences seems reliable: cf. Cic.  Tusc.  iii.2 and the requirements detailed by Chrysippus concerning the qualities needed for wet-nurses in Quint. 
 Inst.  i.1.4, 10.32. Vegetti 1989, 239 makes some interesting points about Agatinus the doctor. 
108 Note also the language used in other texts, e.g. Zeno in Sen.  De Ira  i.16.7  vulnus sanatum  and Cic. 
 Tusc.  iii.83  morsus relinquetur. Chrysippus in Plu.  Stoic. Rep.  1039d is also significant. 
109 From  Sen.  Ep.  94  and  95.  For  the  unnamed  people  who  dissented  both  from  Cleanthes  and Aristo, see Ioppolo 1980a, 132. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
710
s t o i c   e t h i c s
rules or recommendations on behaviour relevant to individuals or classes of  individual,  taking  the  form  of  injunctions  or  prohibitions:  do  this, don't do that ( Ep.  94.11). But while there were those who used only precepts  in  moral  education,  Aristo  wanted  to  do  without  them  and  rely solely on doctrines in teaching ethics. He was convinced110 that anyone who knew the general doctrines would know how to resolve any particular  case  for  himself,  by  reducing  it  to  the  principles  which  defined  it. 
According to him, precepts stated  what  one should do, but not  why; but to  advise  on  a  course  of  behaviour  without  explaining  its  foundations would leave the person to whom the precept was addressed in ignorance, while the advice would be superfluous for anyone who already possessed a general knowledge of the good. What teaching should do, therefore, was to remove false opinions and substitute for them correct doctrines concerning life and happiness. It is likely that Aristo's pedagogical radicalism was tied to his rebuttal of the doctrine of levels of preferability among  the  indi◊erents.111 If  among  things  that  are  neither  good  (like virtue) nor bad (like vice) none is preferable to any other, it is no longer necessary  to  spell  out  a  lot  of  rules  to  distinguish  between  particular objectives and situations.112
Opposing  Aristo,  Cleanthes  maintained  the  utility  of  specific  advice and rules of behaviour: on condition, however, that the rules should be tied to the general considerations which established them (Sen.  Ep.  94.4), i.e. to  decreta. Since in the division of ethics taken up by Chrysippus and his successors (in D.L. vii.84) one of the regular topics to crop up is exhortation and dissuasion, it is clear that Cleanthes defended what already had or at least would become the dominant position of the school: the rules expressed in the 'precepts' would remain the norms of practical orientation to be adopted by those who were on the way to moral perfection, and who would carry out appropriate, if not virtuous, actions.113 As Seneca explains in  Ep.  95.12 and 63-4:
Note that no one . . . will properly perform what he should do unless he has  acquired  the  system  of  being  able  to  execute  all  the  measures  of proper functions in every matter. These will not be secured by someone who has received precepts for the matter in hand but not for everything
. . . It is doctrines which fortify, which protect our safety and tranquillity, which embrace the whole of life and, at the same time, the whole nature of things . . . When we advise someone to treat a friend just like himself, 110 His view can, with care, be deduced from Sen.  Ep.  94.2-17. 
111 See also Steinmetz 1994, 560-1; on Aristo, see Boys-Stones 1996. 
112 See pp. 696-7. 
113 Sen.  Ep.  94.33, 37; below, section x. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
m o r a l   e d u c a t i o n   a n d   t h e   p a s s i o n s 711
or to think that an enemy can become a friend . . . we add the words 'it is just and honourable'. But what is just and honourable is comprised by the system of our doctrines. This system, therefore, is the necessary condition  of  those  precepts.  But  let  us  unite  precepts  and  doctrines. 
Without a root, in fact, branches are useless, and the roots themselves are aided by what they generate. (trans. Long and Sedley)
The  hypothesis  on  which  Cleanthes  and  his  followers  worked  seems therefore to have been that anyone who, in his actions, stuck to the rules contained  in  the  system  of  precepts  would  eventually  also  have  assimilated and comprehended the basic doctrines which justified the rules and were the object of the most theoretical part of the teaching. It does not seem that they would have recognized any reason to limit this teaching only  to  general  ethical  propositions.  Aristo  excluded  logic  and  physics from  philosophy,114 but  for  Cleanthes,  Chrysippus  and  their  followers the fundamental doctrines of ethics were closely connected with the Stoic conception of the world and with the rational character of discourse in general. Seneca, who in  Ep.  95 defends a position close to Cleanthes', connects the precepts relating to the cult of the gods with the knowledge of nature and the operations of the divinity, that is, questions of theology and  physics.115 Logic  and  physics  must  therefore  form  part  of  the  full range of the teaching of  decreta  relating to virtue and the practical life; this explains  why  these  two  disciplines  could  themselves  be  considered
'virtues' alongside the traditional ones such as wisdom, justice, etc. (Cic. 
 Fin.  iii.72-3; D.L. vii.46). 
The aim of moral education would therefore, according to the Stoics, have been attained when there is established in the mind a complex of correct opinions, perfectly mutually coherent and coinciding with the propositions of right reason and accordingly with the will of Zeus.116 But there  is  a  threat  to  any  such  conception  of  education,  dominated  by emphasis on cognitive processes: passion, interpreted as incorrect opinion.117 Since passion could no longer be confined to a non-logical part of the  soul,  as  in  the  psychological  model  familiar  in  the  Platonic-
Aristotelian tradition, it posed a major threat to consistency of opinion and therefore of life. Teaching how to achieve freedom from passions was thus one of the Stoic's most important duties, and one of the most urgent 114  SVF  i 352-7. 
115 Sen.  Ep.  95.47-50, cf. Kidd 1971, 158. Cf. also Chrysippus on the place of physics in the curriculum: Plu.  Stoic. Rep.  1035c. On the whole topic see also Inwood 1995, 657-60 (against Annas 1993a, 163-5). 
116 Cf. Chrysippus in D.L. vii.88 (quoted above, p. 685), with Inwood 1985, 106-8. 
117 Or as the  consequence  of an incorrect opinion, cf. above, p. 699. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
712
s t o i c   e t h i c s
intellectual challenges that he was called upon to meet from the explanatory resources of his philosophy. 
If we were to believe their ancient critics, the Stoics were not up to the task at all, and dedicated little time to the problem of curing passions (Cic. 
 Tusc.  iv.9).  But  such  judgements  betray  incomprehension  or  polemical exaggeration,  since  we  know  that  to  his  three  books   On  passions Chrysippus added one specifically devoted to therapy (Gal.  Loc. A◊.  iii.1, viii 138K).  Again,  the  fussiness  in  defining  and  identifying  the  passions with which Cicero reproaches the Stoics ( Tusc.  iv.9) can be explained as the first stage of therapy itself. The Stoics dwell on the analogy between bodily illness and passion, construing it as a pathological deviation from a normal psychic state - and therefore as a disease, or the onset of a disease, of the soul. 
Just as when the blood is in a bad state, or there is an overflow of phlegm or bile, diseases and illnesses take a hold in the body, so the disturbance of false opinions and the war they wage among themselves rob the soul of health and trouble it with morbid conditions. The passions give rise in the first instance to diseases (which the Stoics call in Greek  nose-mata) . . . 
then  illnesses,  called  by  the  Stoics   arrho-ste-mata  in  Greek  .  .  .  Here  the Stoics and above all Chrysippus spend too much e◊ort on setting up the comparison between diseases of the body and diseases of the soul. (Cic. 
 Tusc.  iv.23)118
If one adds to this analogy the reduction of a passionate deed to an error of judgement, one can see that an accurate description of the phenomenon was already felt by the Stoics to be the first thing to be tackled when performing therapy. However, it is more di√cult to reconstruct from these details the way the medical analogy was applied to the course run by a passion: the three stages of psychic pathology which the sources record119
are not entirely clear in themselves or in relation to each other. 
So far as the treatment of passions is concerned, the Stoics seem to have identified  two  basic  methods:  prevention,  i.e.,  stopping  passions  from arising;  and  actual  therapy,  i.e.,  treating  a  symptom  which  has  already appeared.120 As one would expect, the first method - certainly in its practical e◊ects the surest and most trustworthy - is also less interesting: it 118 Cf. Gal.  PHP  v.4 (v 454-8K). In defence of the Stoic position: Vegetti 1989, 233 and Nussbaum 1994, chs. 1 and 9. 
119 Cic.  Tusc.  iv.23, 27; Stob. ii.93.1-13. In Cicero's terminology the three stages are  proclivitas,  mor-bus,  aegrotatio; the hint of a later, Posidonian, origin can be detected especially in the first: cf. 
Kidd 1983. See also I. Hadot 1969a, 143-5; Nussbaum 1987, 160-1. 
120 Sen.  De Ira  ii.18, cf.  Ep.  94.13 (Aristo?). In Cic.  Tusc.  iii-iv the distinction is implicit, though never stated. On the whole topic, see I. Hadot 1969a and Nussbaum 1994, chs. 9-12. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
m o r a l   e d u c a t i o n   a n d   t h e   p a s s i o n s 713
consisted  basically  in  prophylactic  acquisition  of  a  range  of  knowledge about the world and of a mental attitude which would in fact coincide in the end with perfect wisdom. As Cicero  Tusc.  iii.30 says, it is certain that whoever 'has understood and fully considered human a◊airs', or 'is not upset by anything that happens', or 'does not think of anything before it happens that it cannot happen' will not fall prey to passion; but to say this is merely to say that in order to avoid passions one must first become a wise  person.  The  fact  that  particular  expedients  and  pieces  of  prudent advice, relevant to di◊erent situations and passions,121 were prescribed does not change the basic impression: prevention always operates within the limits and according to the methods of moral teaching outlined above. 
As Cicero, in  Tusc.  iv.57, goes on to observe, the risk is one of being irrelevant  in  practice,  since  the  bulk  of  humanity  consists  of  fools  who  are already  prey  to  passions.  The  real  conceptual  di√culty,  and  the  most important problem for practical operation of the doctrine, therefore lay in the possibility of finding treatment for active passions. Here it seems that  within  the  school  Chrysippus'  position  represents  an  advance  on Cleanthes',  since  it  provides  a  better  explanation  and  a  more  profound analysis of what treatment might be.122
If passion is in some way connected with wrong judgement, it seems quite an easy thing to say: change the judgement and you thereby put an end to the passion. If, say, it were a case of  lupe-, i.e. pain on account of the presence of some (supposed) bad things, it seemed logical to Cleanthes to suggest  that  the  therapy  should  consist  simply  in  showing  that  it  had nothing  to  do  with  anything  really  bad.  But  Chrysippus  realized  that such consolation was no use at all: it was inappropriate and risked compromising  any  possibility  of  a  cure.  And  Cicero,  in   Tusc.  iii.77,  objects that if one teaches someone in distress that the only thing that is really bad is something morally shameful, the patient will be freed not from his distress but from his folly; assuming that the teaching works, he will in fact become wise. The sheer improbability of this outcome shows the unreliability of the suggested treatment. Over Cleanthes Chrysippus seems to have had the advantage of seeing how to use the Stoic analysis of the psychic processes which constitute a passion in a more sophisticated way. 
Earlier in this chapter123 stress was laid on the complexity of the Stoic analysis of passion. For example, in a case of pain, the associated belief is expressed not simply by the proposition 'This is something bad', but is 121 E.g. Sen.  De Ira  ii.18.2. 
122 Cf. Cic.  Tusc.  iii.76-7, with Donini 1995b. 
123 Cf. above, p. 701. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
714
s t o i c   e t h i c s
made up of the two propositions: (1) 'This is something bad' and (2) 'It is right that I should be a◊ected by it'. Moreover, according to Chrysippus a passion has its own temporal rhythm. What happens is that either (A) in time the impulse in the soul of the person a◊ected which corresponds to proposition (2) weakens: consequently (2) becomes ine◊ective, but belief in  (1)  remains  intact;  or  (B)  both  (1)  and  (2)  remain,  but  'the  consequences' diminish, that is, in the case hypothesized the contraction of the pneuma  and probably also the exterior manifestations of the pain, weeping and wailing.124 Chrysippus may be referring to this second case (B) when he  observes  that  it  is  the  moment  when  the  inflammation  of  a  passion abates (Gal.  PHP  iv.7.27, v 422K) which is the right time to begin treatment,  and  that  only  then  is  there  hope  that  reasoning  -  on  the  part  of someone o◊ering consolation or advice - will 'insinuate itself and, so to speak,  find  a  place  to  reveal  the  irrationality  of  the  passion'.  Thus Chrysippus avoided Cleanthes' naïveté: 'revealing the irrationality of the passion' meant to him merely attacking proposition (2). Refutation of this proposition must start from convictions held by the interlocutor needing consolation, whatever they may be; it will involve showing that it is inappropriate and inconsistent to abandon oneself to the passions (the procedure is in accordance with general Stoic principle: when it is a matter of persuasion, the wise man will start from opinions to which his interlocutor is already committed).125 Only after having obtained results here will Chrysippus eventually attack proposition (1), bringing into play the correct notion, as the Stoics believed, that only what is morally evil is bad. 
ix Virtue and wisdom
Our  discussion  of  the  cure  of  the  passions  can  supply  premisses  for  an account of the specifically Stoic idea of virtue as well. Let us suppose that therapy or teaching reached a successful conclusion, that is, eliminated in the  soul  of  the  person  who  was  not  yet  virtuous  all  propositions  and judgements  which  constituted  the  basis  for  passionate  reactions  and incorrect  actions;  and  let  us  suppose  that,  in  place  of  incorrect  judgements  about  certain  things,  teaching  has  resulted  in  stable  and  correct opinions in the soul about indi◊erents. It is clear that the person would 124 See Gal.  PHP  iv.7.12-17 (v 419-20K) with Long and Sedley 1987, i.421; I have added the reference to exterior manifestations on the basis of the mention of weeping which ceases. 
125 On this whole subject see Donini 1995b. On the practice of starting from opinions to which one's interlocutor is already committed, see Nussbaum 1994, 320-4; an example from Seneca is discussed in Donini 1995a, 197-204. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
v i r t u e   a n d   w i s d o m
715
then  possess  a  complex  of  propositions  and  judgements  which  are  perfectly consistent with each other and with right reason, coinciding with the law of cosmic nature and the will of Zeus.126 It therefore does not seem accidental that one definition of virtue used by the Stoics stated that it  was  a  'consistent  disposition'  (D.L.  vii.89),  and  another  definition spoke of 'perfect reason' (Sen.  Ep.  31.8; Plu.  Virt. Mor.  441c); another definition, which refers to 'the (soul's) governing part in a particular disposition'  (S.E.  M  xi.22),  probably  also  alludes  to  the  state  of  complete consistency which is dominant in the virtuous man. Only virtue possesses the  characteristics  of  the   telos  which  the  Stoics  defined,  from  Zeno onwards, in terms of rational consistency. 
Rational  consistency  is  either  perfect  or  non-existent:  a  collection  of propositions is either totally consistent or is utterly inconsistent, even if it is  only  because  of  a  single  incongruous  element.  That  is  why  the  Stoics could maintain (D.L. vii.127) that there are no degrees of virtue, and that a man is either perfectly virtuous, or not virtuous at all (and therefore foolish or mad). This concept is in fact contained in another idea employed in the first of the definitions quoted above: 'disposition' ( diathesis)127 is actually the technical term Stoicism used to define a state which does not admit within itself variations of degree. The image of a line, to which Diogenes Laertius  resorts,  makes  the  same  point:  a  line  cannot  be  more  or  less straight - either it is straight or it is not. Certain famous Stoic paradoxes concerning virtue have the same explanation: for example, the movement from vice to virtue is instantaneous (Plu.  Virt. Prof.  75c), so much so that the subject of the change may not notice it.128 But the non-existence of degrees of virtue did not lead the Stoics to put all good actions on the same level; the content and material objective of the action can make a di◊erence to its importance and suitability for praise, as Chrysippus recognizes:129
For, although deeds done in accordance with the virtues are congenial, even among these there are those that are <not> cited as examples, such as  courageously  extending  one's  finger  and  continently  abstaining from an old crone with one foot in the grave and hearing without precipitate assent that three is exactly four; one who undertakes to praise 126 See the commentary on Chrysippus' definition of  telos  in D.L. vii.88 (quoted above, p. 685). 
127 Other complications and incongruities in Stoic terminology are explained in Long and Sedley 1987, i.376. See also Luschnat 1958, 192-9; Forschner 1981, 174-6. 
128 Plu.  Comm. Not.  1062b, a paradox much discussed in the literature. Sedley's explanation 1977, 94-5 is preferable to Rist 1969a, 90-1. See also Forschner 1981, 175; Decleva Caizzi and Funghi 1988, 120. 
129 But Cic.  Fin.  iii.48 proposes another way of recognizing di◊erences in action; cf. Wright 1991, 159 n.20 0 and also Tsekourakis 1974, 37. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
716
s t o i c   e t h i c s
and eulogize people by means of such examples gives evidence of a kind of insipidity. (Plu.  Stoic. Rep.  1038f; cf. 1039a, trans. Cherniss) Rational  consistency  and  the  absence  of  degrees  are  therefore  typical characteristics  of  virtue  in  Stoic  philosophy.  But  obviously  this  was  an inheritance from a long tradition of reflection developed out of Socrates'
ideas through Plato and Aristotle. Aristotle had already emphasized ( EN
ii.4.1105a32) firm stability and constancy as distinctive characteristics of newly-acquired  virtue;  stability,  unshakeable  steadiness  and  constancy were undoubtedly features of Stoic virtue (Sen.  Ep.  120.10-11; Plu.  Virt. 
 Mor.  441c) - only the Stoics seem to o◊er a better justification for making them so than Aristotle does, since stability and firmness typically belong to knowledge ( episte-me-; cf.  SVF  ii 90-5). Unlike Aristotle who disputed it, the  Stoics  accepted  the  identification  of  virtue  and  knowledge  which derived  from  Socrates130 (there  was  however  a  problem  regarding  the e◊ective inalienability of virtue; according to some (D.L. vii.127), exceptional conditions like delirium and intoxication could cause the loss of a virtuous  disposition).  Also  deriving  from  Socrates  and  Plato  comes  the idea retained by the Stoics that virtue was something eminently advantageous to its owner;131 but in this case, too, they did not limit themselves to  repeating  what  others  had  already  said.  The  cosmic  and  theological foundation of their ethics, stressed in preceding sections, and the conviction that virtue should coincide with a form of rationality such that all propositions were brought to a state of perfect mutual compatibility: all this permitted them to assert that human and divine virtue are the same ( SVF  iii 245-52) and, along the same lines, that human virtue is advantageous  to  divinity  itself  (Plu.  Comm.  Not.  1076a)  just  as  divine  goodness always benefits a virtuous person. 
The  idea  that  virtue  represents  the  natural  completion  or  perfection ( teleio-sis) of every being is more in line with Aristotelian ethics:132 particularly when this idea is accompanied by another, that natural perfection coincides with the good of every being, and this in turn with the completion of its own function. As Seneca puts it:
What is best in man? Reason: with this he precedes the animals and follows the gods. Therefore perfect reason is man's peculiar good, the rest he shares with animals and plants . . . what is the peculiar characteristic of a man? Reason - which when right and perfect makes the full sum of human happiness. Therefore if every thing, when it has perfected its own good, is 130 Plu.  Virt. Mor.  441b; Stob. ii.63.6. By contrast, see Arist.  EN  vi.13.1144b28-30. 
131 S.E.  M  xi.22; cf. above, p.688. 
132 D.L. vii.90, 94; cf. Arist.  Metaph. ∆.1021b20-33. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
v i r t u e   a n d   w i s d o m
717
praiseworthy and has reached the end of its own nature, and man's own good  is  reason,  if  he  has  perfected  reason,  he  is  praiseworthy  and  has attained the end of his nature. (Sen.  Ep.  76.10, trans. Long and Sedley) But  there  remain  significant  di◊erences  from  the  Aristotelian  tradition:133 the  Stoics  completely  disagreed  with  the  idea  that  virtue  as  a disposition was a potentiality whose corresponding actualization represented its perfect realization. Stoic disposition already implies activity: as Seneca  says  elsewhere  ( Ep.  113.10)  virtue,  where  it  exists,  'acts'  or  does something in such a way that action is totally independent of material and external conditions which might impede its realization. Cicero illustrates this point well:
Whatever takes its start from wisdom must be immediately perfect in all its parts. For in it is situated what we call 'desirable'. Just as it is wrong to betray one's country, to show violence to one's parents . . . actions which consist in bringing about certain results, so even without any result it is wrong to fear, to show grief, or to be in a state of concupiscence. As the latter are wrong not in their after-e◊ects and consequences, but immediately in their first steps, so those things which take their start from virtue are  to  be  judged  right  from  their  first  undertaking  and  not  by  their accomplishment. (Cic.  Fin.  iii.32, trans. Long and Sedley) It is important to understand what the Stoics meant by 'first undertaking'.  A  man  'undertakes'  an  action  (x)  when  he  decides:  in  Stoic  terms, when he  assents 134 to the statement '(x) is the right thing to do'. So from the moment when the agent assents to such a proposition the virtuous act is  already  perfect,  even  if  in  external  reality  there  remain  insuperable obstacles which prevent its e◊ective completion. So the Stoic doctrine of virtue culminates in an exaltation of moral intention. 
*
From the non-existence of levels of virtue it follows logically that for all the Stoics from Zeno onwards humanity should be divided into just two moral categories, the virtuous (or 'wise men') and the corrupt (or 'fools', 
'madmen').135 So the absolutely complete form of virtue is wisdom, and the wise man is someone who has all the virtues (Stob.  Ecl. ii.65.12-14). To possess  all  virtues  means  above  all  to  possess  the  four  primary  virtues which  are  the  same  as  in  Socratic  and  Platonic  tradition:  wisdom  (or prudence),  temperance  (or  moderation),  courage  and  justice  ( Ecl. 
133 See Forschner 1981, 176-8. 
134 See Inwood 1985, 95-101. 
135 Stob. ii.99.3-106.20. Cf. also ii.65.7. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
718
s t o i c   e t h i c s
ii.60.9-11). These virtues are, moreover, inseparable from each other ( Ecl. 
ii.63.8): anyone who has one of them has all of them, and there can be no man who is just without also being wise, moderate and courageous. This thesis is likewise no novelty in the history of moral doctrines.136
Instead, novelties emerge in the way in which Stoicism justifies the two theses of the plurality and inseparability of virtues, between which a tension could arise if one or the other were stressed. There was in fact argument  on  this  problem  among  the  immediate  disciples  of  Zeno,  and between them and Chrysippus. The dispute probably arose from an ambiguity in the language used by Zeno when speaking about virtues. He certainly allowed that there were many virtues (Plu.  Stoic. Rep.  1034c); but since he defined the other three primary virtues with reference to wisdom he seemed to reduce them all to the latter as a single fundamental virtue. 
Aristo interpreted him in this way. He recognized a single state of virtue, 
'health', and held that it was di◊erentiated only according to the circumstances in which it operated. He called it moderation, for example, when it involved putting desires and pleasures in order, or justice when it concerned relations with other men, etc.:
Aristo of Chios also made virtue essentially one thing, which he called
'health'. It was by relativity that he made the virtues in a way di◊erent and  plural,  just  as  if  someone  wanted  to  call  our  vision  'white-seeing'
when it apprehended white things, 'black-seeing' when it apprehended black things, and so on . . . Zeno of Citium also in a way seems to be drift-ing  in  this  direction  when  he  defines  prudence  in  matters  requiring distribution as justice, in matters requiring choice as moderation, and in matters  requiring  endurance  as  courage.  (Plu.  Virt.  Mor.  440f-441a, trans. Long and Sedley)
This analogy137 with vision seems to imply a criticism of the linguistic currency  of  virtue  names.  Cleanthes  may  have  put  forward  a  view  like Aristo's  (Plu.  Stoic.  Rep.  1034d),  but  Chrysippus  reacted  against  it. 
According to Plutarch's account in  Virt. Mor.  441a-b, he explained that Zeno  had  given  the  impression  of  thinking  in  terms  of  a  single  virtue simply because in his definitions of the primary virtues he had used the word 'wisdom' as equivalent to 'knowledge'; so the unifying element of the virtues would not itself have been one of those virtues, but that structure of mind, i.e. knowledge ( episte-me-), which was the basis shared by the many  virtues.  Individual  virtues,  then,  were  according  to  Chrysippus 136 Cf. e.g. Arist.  EN  vi.13.1144b32. See also Schofield 1984. 
137 That is, if the analogy of seeing is truly Aristo's and not Plutarch's: cf. Schofield 1984, 89. On Aristo's view, see also Ioppolo 1980a, 208-38. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
v i r t u e   a n d   w i s d o m
719
e◊ectively di◊erent, because they were qualitatively di◊erentiated: corresponding, that is, to di◊erent permanent qualifications of soul. 
With the situation thus clarified, Chrysippus could proceed to a further diversification of virtues by introducing a long series of virtues subordinate to each of the cardinal ones: for example, under wisdom are included judiciousness  ( euboulia),  resourcefulness  ( eume-chania)  and  others;  under moderation,  continence  ( enkrateia),  endurance  ( karteria),  etc.  (Stob.  Ecl. 
ii.60.9-62.6; D.L. vii.92). He thereby attracted the accusation referred to by Plutarch of having uselessly introduced a 'swarm' of virtues and of having deliberately put in danger the other ingredient of Zeno's thesis, that of the basic unity of virtue. He put right this di√culty by proposing the idea (Stob.  Ecl.  ii.63.6-25) that, as forms of knowledge, virtues contained the total sum of theoretical perspectives and common rules of conduct, but  each  approached  this  sum  from  a  di◊erent  angle.  So  every  virtue would  consider  as  its  own  primary  province  the  rules  and  principles which corresponded to its particular field of application; but it would also take into consideration, secondarily, all the rules and principles that are the primary concern of each of the other virtues. In this way an act of courage could be seen primarily as such, but also imply, secondarily, the theorems of all the other virtues; and it would follow that anyone who acted according to one virtue would in fact act in conformity with all of them: They say that the virtues imply one another not only in that he who has one has all, but also in that he who performs any act in accordance with one performs it in accordance with all. For they say that neither is a man perfect if he does not have all the virtues nor is an action perfect which is not done in accordance with all the virtues. (Plu.  Stoic. Rep. 1046ef, trans. 
Schofield 1984)
The solution which Chrysippus gave in these terms constituted the basis of the Stoic view up to Panaetius, since the source (Stob.  Ecl. ii.63.26-7) from which the information about Panaetius comes introduces his explanation as an illustration138 of the common view of the school. So even Panaetius, though introducing a distinction between two basic types of virtue, practical and theoretical (D.L. vii.92), saw the four cardinal virtues as  mutually  connected.  But  in  conformity  with  his  own  theory  of   per-
 sonae, he identified them di◊erently from Chrysippus, referring to their roots in the natural tendencies of every individual.139
*
138 Note the use of γα!ρ in Stob. ii.63.25. On Chrysippus' view see Schofield 1984. 
139 Cic.  O◊.  i.11-18. Cf. Rist 1969a, 192 and above, p. 707. See also Kidd 1971, 160-2. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
720
s t o i c   e t h i c s
The  Socratic  influence  on  Stoic  doctrine  is  utterly  clear  from  what  has been said above: virtue is considered as a summation of forms of knowledge and theoretical perspectives; or as an art which has as its object the whole of human existence (Stob. ii.67.1). The individual virtues are also defined as forms of knowledge, and each of the vices contrasted with them as kinds of ignorance (Stob. ii.59.4-60.8). But all this presented another problem: what exactly does the wise man, in possession of all the virtues, 
'know'? Since he possesses the theoretical perspectives and rules relevant to each virtue, and since he is also familiar with the logical and physical doctrines140 which form the principles of ethics, it would be tempting to say that the wise man knows everything. While it is true that the Stoic wise man would know everything he needed to know, one should beware of evidence141 which would attribute a kind of omniscience to him: these are either rhetorical exaggerations or completely unreliable. That the wise man  could  not  literally  know  everything  follows  from  his  ability, acknowledged by the Stoics, to suspend judgement in cases of doubt (S.E. 
 M  vii.416,  PH  ii.253). That, in particular, he could not know the 'whole of eternity' - as Cicero would have it - and therefore the future, follows from the fact that he is credited with the ability always to act on the basis 'of an impulse,  but  with  reservation',  an  important  concept  to  which  I  shall return later. It is true that there are a couple of texts (Stob.  Ecl. ii.114.16; Cic.  Div.  ii.129) which present the wise man as the only good diviner;142
but these must be interpreted in the light both of the notion of 'impulse with  reservation'  and  of  what  Stobaeus  states  elsewhere  regarding  the wise man's knowledge of the arts:
Only the wise man is a good diviner and poet and orator and dialecti-cian143and critic; but not every wise man is like this, since some of them still need to acquire some theoretical principles. (Stob.  Ecl. ii.67.13-16) This is like saying that only the wise man could have the ability correctly to perform each of the skills mentioned, but not all wise men e◊ectively possess  all  the  technical  knowledge  required  for  the  e◊ective  performance of each skill.144 This shows that ignorance even of many notions 140 Cf. above, section viii, regarding  decreta; also Plu.  Stoic. Rep.  1035c-d. 
141 Especially  Cic.  Tusc.  iv.37;  also   SVF  ii 131,  p.  41.12,  on  which  see  Kerferd  1978a,  128,  with respect to the entire question. 
142 The account of Inwood 1985, 119-20, should be preferred to Forschner 1981, 208-11, N. P. 
White 1990, 57 n. 38. 
143 'Dialectic' must be meant in the strictly technical sense, possibly its original Stoic meaning of
'the science of correct discussion, with arguments in the form of question and answer' (D.L. 
vii.2), not 'the science of things which are true, false and neither true nor false' (ibid.). On the evolution of the Stoic concept of dialectic see Long 1978c. 
144 Dio Chrysostom 71.5 (⫽ SVF  iii 562) shows the Stoic point of view rather well. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
v i r t u e   a n d   w i s d o m
721
relevant to individual skills does not in any way prevent a man from being wise. Moreover, if he always acts with caution, this implies that no man has ever possessed all the technical knowledge necessary to perform divination. 
From this it follows that the wise man knows all that is necessary for virtue, and only that. It is not merely formal characteristics that make wisdom  what  it  is.  It  must  be  in  possession  of  substantive  truths,  as  has already been made clear: the principles and rules of ethics, the principles of logic and of physics. But all this would be connected in the mind of the wise man within a complex of notions and propositions which were perfectly consistent. One might also say that the wise man knows the truth and not simply what is true (S.E.  M  vii.38-44); truth is a system of absolutely  consistent  propositions,  while  what  is  true  is  also  accessible  to fools, each of whom can state at least some true propositions. The truth which the wise man understands is rich in content; but it is in the end
'truth'  above  all  on  account  of  its  complete  rationality  and  systematic coherence, not because it is a box or a filing cabinet of all possible notions. 
His wholesale adaptability to all situations in life would depend, in the end, more on the formal characteristics of knowledge (rationality, firmness, system and consistency) and not on the impossibility of a capacity for  being  in  possession  of  all  notions.  It  is  also  likely  that  we  should understand  in  this  sense  the  Stoic  thesis  we  have  already  mentioned (above, p. 716), which states that virtue is the same for a (wise) man as for a god. This is true precisely inasmuch as in both rationality is tied to consistency, while it remains obvious that the contents of the divine mind are much richer than those accessible to any human (Cic.  Div.  i.127). And perhaps it would not be wrong to say that the knowledge attributed to the wise man by the Stoics was a metaphor for their own philosophy, or what they wanted it to be: an infallible ability to direct a man on any occasion in life, thanks to the exercise of rationality in accordance with correct logical principles, and to a systematic, consistent general vision of the world; not an encyclopaedia of universal knowledge. 
So it is easy to see that not all the elements of the description which the Stoics  gave  of  the  wise  man  need  be  understood  literally,  as  common sense  might  interpret  them.  The  theses  which  state  that  only  the  wise man  attains  happiness  and  self-su√ciency  (D.L.  vii.127-8;  Cic.  Fin. 
iii.26)  must  definitely  be  taken  literally,  and  are  anyway  logically  connected to the doctrines of the end and the good. But many other attributes  of  the  wise  man  should  be  interpreted  as  metaphors  which  make sense if put into the general context of Stoic philosophy: otherwise they Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
722
s t o i c   e t h i c s
flout  linguistic  usage.145 So  only  the  wise  man  is  handsome  (Cic.  Fin. 
iii.75; Philo  QG  iv.99) because perfect harmony and symmetry of parts rule only in his mind: this definitely alludes to the consistency of propositions  which  constitutes  perfect  rationality  and,  probably,  also  to  the full harmony between impulses and reason possessed by the wise man. 
Only the wise man is rich ( SVF  iii 593-60 0) because only he does not lack anything  which  nature  desires,  nor  any  of  the  things  which  are  really good. Only the wise man is free (Cic.  Fin.  iii.75;  SVF  iii 597), not because he can act or wish things according to his whim: in the Stoic universe, completely  predetermined,  the  wise  man  has  not  even  the  ability  to
'make  a  significant  change  in  his  moral  character'.146 Rather,  the  wise man's freedom is that of the man who is completely liberated from domination by the passions (Cic.  Fin.  iii.75), and can get all he desires because nothing  which  befalls  him  can  hinder  or  destroy  his  constant  impulse towards good. This thoroughgoing internalization of the notion of freedom is probably the only solution possible within the general framework of Stoic determinism. 
Such  a  picture  of  the  wise  man  could  easily  appear  hyperbolic.  It  is likely that the Stoics themselves understood this risk.147 So it seems that they made a realistic concession to good sense when they admitted that a wise man was nowhere to be found, and that maybe only one or two ever existed  in  the  whole  of  human  history148 (with  the  final  corollary  that none  of  them  considered  himself  or  his  teachers  wise:  Plu.  Stoic.  Rep. 
1048e). As Alexander reports:
According  to  them  .  .  .  of  men  the  greatest  number  are  bad,  or  rather there are one or two whom they speak of as having become good men as in a fable, a sort of incredible creature as it were and contrary to nature and  rarer  than  the  Ethiopian  phoenix;  and  the  others  are  all  wicked. 
(Alex.  Fat.  199.14-18, trans R.W. Sharples)
Yet the descriptions of the wise man's behaviour give the impression of referring  to  observable  situations;  moreover,  Diogenes  Laertius  (vii.91) could say that it was 'evident' that bad men could become good. I think that the picture of the wise man, with its apparent incongruities, can only be understood in connection with the protreptic and pedagogical aspect 145 Cf. also Alexander's criticisms in  SVF  iii 594-5. 
146 Inwood 1985, 109. 
147 Cf. the fragment from Chrysippus'  On Justice  quoted at Plu.  Stoic. Rep.  1041f (assuming that it deals with the wise man, as von Arnim supposed:  SVF  iii 545); in any case, see also Cic.  Parad.  4. 
148 S.E.  M  ix.133; Alex.  Fat.  199.16-18; also Diogenianus in  SVF  iii 668. Aristo may have allowed for the existence of many wise men: Ioppolo 1980a, 117. On the fundamental optimism of the Stoic conception, which depicts wisdom as a goal 'possible, at least on a theoretical level, for everyone', cf. Decleva Caizzi and Funghi 1988, 120-3. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
v i r t u e   a n d   w i s d o m
723
of all Stoic moral teaching (emphasized above, and to be clarified further in this section and the next). For the moment, I would suggest that the Stoics,  who  did  not  admit  the  existence  of  non-corporeal  objects  functioning as normative criteria of actions, like the Platonic ideas of values, felt the need to indicate a sort of bodily and visible ethical norm, in which the moral values put forward in their philosophy were clearly embodied. 
This  norm  would  be  su√ciently  high  and  demanding  to  depict  a  paradigm  of  excellence  which  could  not  be  improved  upon:  if  it  could,  it would cease to function as a criterion. But at the same time it needed to appear as a paradigm for the general run of mankind. Otherwise there was the risk that protreptic discourse would lose credibility, when its aim was to  indicate  precise  and  attractive  objectives  for  human  existence.  That problem is common to all Hellenistic schools, just as is the solution, the figure of the wise man who exemplifies the norm. 
One feature of the Stoic wise man also deserves particular mention. As previously stated, the wise man is totally free from passions. The ideal of the suppression of passions ( SVF  i 207, iii 447-8) remained, throughout all antiquity, one of the most famous features of Stoic ethics; usually (e.g. 
Cic.  Acad.  i.38; Sen.  Ep.  116.1) it was seen in opposition to the ideal of the Peripatetics, which limited itself to the moderation of passions. The Stoic insistence on their abolition is, however, logical: if the passions were tied to or the same as incorrect judgements, full consistency of individual reason and its full adjustment to right reason would necessarily require the elimination  of  any  error  of  judgement.  Now  among  the  passions  to  be excised from the mind explicit mention is made ( SVF  iii 450-3) of pity -
the wise man should not be lustful or dejected or anxious, but nor should he be compassionate. He should not be moved by any individual case and he  should  not  excuse  the  guilty  from  their  rightful  punishment.149
Perhaps no aspect of Stoic morality has been as unpopular as this one ever since antiquity: hence the disagreeable image of the wise man as a rigid, stern person, not open to any emotion. Recent research150 has countered this image e◊ectively, by emphasizing that the Stoic wise man had - at least in normal everyday situations - exactly the same impulses of attraction and repulsion as all humanity. But the attribution of normal human impulses to the wise man requires the Stoics to o◊er an appropriate clarification  of  the  doctrine  of   eupatheiai,  mentioned  above  (p.  701).  This 149 Stob. ii.95.24, probably an argument against Aristotle and his concept of equity; see also D.L. 
vii.123 and Rist 1978c, 267-9. 
150 Particularly Rist 1969a, Frede 1986b, Nussbaum 1987, but see Nussbaum 1994, 429-38. Cf. 
also pp. 703-5 above. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
724
s t o i c   e t h i c s
doctrine  actually  introduces  no  qualifications  to  the  doctrine  recommending the total elimination of passions, nor is there any reason to think of good emotions as something di◊erent from the balanced impulses of a perfectly rational agent. 
The picture of the fool151 presents a mirror image of that of the wise man. If virtue fulfilled in the wise man has all the consistency of knowledge, vice is characterized as incoherent and ignorant disorder (Cic.  Tusc. 
iv.29;  Stob.  Ecl.  ii.59.11-60.5,  106.13).  Furthermore,  fools  are  utterly unhappy (Plu.  Stoic. Rep.  1048e) and it is impossible for them to perform any correct action (Plu.  Stoic. Rep.  1037d); just as every virtuous action of the wise man implied all the virtues, everything done by fools implied all the vices (Stob.  Ecl. ii.67.2). Obviously this should not be understood as meaning that Achilles was the same as a coward (this example is in Sen. 
 Ben.  iv.27); not everyone is naturally prone to all vices, but a person has them all if he is a fool, because the inconsistency and ignorance which are the essence of vice make their presence felt as soon as there occurs in the soul a single judgement at odds with the perfect harmony of reason. This also explains, finally, why from the Stoic point of view all sins were equal ( SVF  iii 524-43); because all of them equally are consequences of a false judgement (Stob.  Ecl. ii.107.8) and any false judgement equally destroys the harmonious consistency of reason. If a pilot wrecks a ship loaded with straw, this is no less serious than if it had been loaded with gold (Cic.  Fin. 
iv.76,  Parad.  20); certainly there is a di◊erence in the material content of the  loss,  but  none  in  the  unskilfulness  of  the  pilot.  And  if  there  is  no di◊erence in sins or errors, the misery or unhappiness of someone who has approached very close to virtue will be the same as that of the criminal who is an enormous distance from them (Cic.  Fin.  iv.21): he will always have 'all' evils, in the sense that only one of them is enough to render him unhappy (Stob.  Ecl. ii.10 0.13). 
x Moral progress
It is time to stop and reflect. If we were to take the opposition between the  wise  man  and  fools  literally,  we  would  come  up  against  not  just hyperboles and paradoxes, but actual aporias that would endanger the consistency of Stoic philosophy. This is precisely the conclusion reached by certain opponents of Stoicism, like the great Aristotelian Alexander of Aphrodisias and the Platonist Plutarch. The Aristotelian commenta-151 See Sandbach 1989 (1975), 43-5. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
m o r a l   p r o g r e s s
725
tor notes ( Fat.  199.14-22) that, if it were true that only virtue and vice are respectively good and bad and that the greater part of mankind is wicked, then we must inevitably conclude that man is indeed the lowli-est of all creatures. It is true that other creatures are incapable of virtue; but also - in compensation - free of vice, the very thing which makes man unhappy. The conclusion Alexander suggests is much more explicit in Plutarch, according to whom Stoic morality clashed with teleology and its doctrines of providence and a divine rationality which governs the world:
The  wise  man  does  not  exist  and  has  never  existed  in  any  part  of  the world, but there are myriads of truly unhappy men in Zeus' republic, under  a  rule  which  implies  the  best  management.  What  can  be  more repugnant to common sense than when, with Zeus governing in the best possible  way,  we  men  find  ourselves  in  the  worst  possible  state?  (Plu. 
 Comm. Not.  1076b)
But we should beware of the risk of reading Stoic doctrine in the same way as its prejudiced and ill-disposed critics. That their reading was incorrect is shown by a series of explanations which always accompany Stoic descriptions  of  vice  and  fools;  the  arguments  of  the  Platonists  and  the Aristotelians  did  not  take  these  into  account.  It  is  true  that  all  sins  are equal,  but  not  that  they  are  therefore  the   same:  they  are  qualitatively di◊erent  depending  on  the  external  cause  which  is  the  object  of  the agent's judgement, and which has a greater or lesser value or importance according  to  the  di◊erences  which  exist  among   morally  intermediate objects  (or  indi◊erent  objects:  Stob.  Ecl.  ii.106.21-6,  from  which  it appears  that  the  opponents'  criticism  treats  all  Stoics  as  if  they  agreed with  Aristo).  Nor  are  all  sins,  though  equal,  also   equally  tolerable:  Zeno (Cic.  Fin.  iv.56) showed that some were absolutely intolerable, whereas others could not be. One consequence of this seems to be that not all sins were equally  punishable.152 And even if it is true that all fools are equally foolish, there are in fact profound di◊erences in the things they do, inasmuch as some derive from a hardened, completely incurable character and others do not (Stob.  Ecl. ii.113.21-3). So there are e◊ectively degrees of greater or lesser nearness to virtues and to wisdom:153 this is explicitly recognized  by  Chrysippus  ( SVF  iii 510:  the  text  is  about  happiness  -
which is distinguished from the limit of moral progress - but of course the sole condition of happiness is virtue):
152 Cf. Rist's argument, 1969a, 82. 
153 On this topic see Inwood 1985, 208-9; Decleva Caizzi and Funghi 1988, 107-8. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
726
s t o i c   e t h i c s
Chrysippus says: 'He who has made the greatest possible progress carries out in every respect all the appropriate actions and omits none. But his life is not yet happy; happiness comes to him when these intermediate actions acquire the stability which comes with character and take on a certain fixity which is all their own'. (Stob. v. 906.18-907.5). 
But degrees of nearness to virtue had already been fairly clearly acknowledged by Zeno (Plu.  Virt. Prof.  82f ). Obviously anyone who comes close to virtue  remains  constantly  immersed  in  vice,  just  as  anybody  in  water drowns even if he is only just under its surface, as much as if he were at the bottom of the sea (Cic.  Fin.  iii.48) - yet he can be more or less distant from the water's surface, therefore nearer to or farther from salvation and, to drop the metaphor, virtue. 
If we take account of the clear recognition of the existence of degrees of nearness to virtue, it is also clear that the radical dichotomy between fools and wise men should be understood di◊erently from the Stoics' critics. 
The  distinction  was  strenuously  maintained  since  it  seemed  to  be  perfectly logical: it made virtue a  diathesis, so anyone who did not have it was inevitably  non-virtuous,  i.e.  foolish,  mad,  corrupt.  But  while  logically indisputable, it did not have the status of an objective description of the human condition: rather, it probably had a normative value and a pedagogical and protreptic meaning. It does not seem that the Stoics really had the implausible conviction that the whole of humanity had been and continued to be constituted of individuals who were radically and identically evil, as Alexander and Plutarch would have it. The objective description of the  human  condition  did  not,  from  the  Stoic  point  of  view,  lie  in  the dichotomy between fools and wise men, but in the doctrine of degrees of nearness to virtue: the doctrine of moral progress and levels of  kathe-kon (or proper function, which will be examined later). So if it was the case that there actually existed men who were more or less far from virtue and only  rarely,  or  never  at  all,  men  in  which  not  so  much  as  a  glimmer  of awareness  or  respect  for  good  was  evident  (this  was  the  optimistic assumption of the Stoics, according to Cic.  Fin.  iii.36-8), then the insistence found in the sources on the radical dichotomy acquires another significance: which would have to be the one already indicated in connection with the hyperbolic descriptions of the wise man. There was a limit and a norm for morality, which was the wise man; to insist on the idea (logically unexceptionable) that anyone who did not yet fit that norm was not a wise man, no matter how close he was, would take on a protreptic significance. 
And there was perhaps some rhetorical and pedagogical e√cacy in applying a single name to all the non-wise, i.e. fools, without reference to how Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
m o r a l   p r o g r e s s







727
much they deviated from the norm. Implicit in this posture is an invitation  to  the  non-wise  to  persevere  in  their  e◊orts  and  seek  to  improve themselves  further,  without  ever  lapsing  into  complacency  over  results already achieved. 
So what is perhaps debatable about the idea is not its consistency with general assumptions of Stoic philosophy, with teleology and providentialism: there is no di√culty with this, and one could even suggest a way out of the  aporia  mentioned  above  in  section  viii.  If  the  objective  description of humanity does not lie in the wise/foolish division, but in the theory of degrees  of  nearness  to  virtue,  then  there  is  no  need  to  think  that  the hypothesis  of   diastrophe-  also  implies  something  negative  in  all  kinds  of social association. Every human community is simply imperfect and more or less distant from the norm: this is merely to be realistic. What is questionable is the e◊ectiveness of an educational strategy which continues to repeat,  even  to  those  who  had  willingly  lived  all  their  lives  seeking  to become better, the message: you have achieved nothing. Considerations of this kind may have led Panaetius to abandon reference to the figure of the wise man as the behavioural norm154 and to show some appreciation for human  beings  in  whom  there  appeared  some  approximation,  albeit  distant,  to  virtue  (Cic.  O◊.  i.46,  iii.13,  15).  Yet  perhaps  the  method  of  the older Stoics was e◊ective. Even after Panaetius the image of the wise man retained  its  life  (witness  Seneca's   De  constantia  sapientis);  and  between Zeno and Marcus Aurelius there was no philosophy with a greater capacity to act as a guide to the conscience than Stoicism. One writer155 has rightly noted that the Stoic attitude survives in the sense of sin experienced by Christian saints convinced they were the worst of sinners. It is characteristic of consciences which are morally elevated to have a vivid awareness of human imperfection - and their own personal shortcomings. 
*
Di◊erent  degrees  of  progressive  approximation  to  virtue  are  in  e◊ect acknowledged in the sources. The criteria by which the stages of progress were distinguished might di◊er,156 but, in the most significant and informative text, there are five. These distinctions must ultimately be due to Chrysippus,157 although as given here by Cicero they probably represent 154 The common assessment of Panaetius: cf. e.g. Sen.  Ep.  116.5. See also Tsekourakis 1974, 42. 
155 Rist 1969a, 91. 
156 Compare Sen.  Ep.  75.8 with Cic.  Fin.  iii.20 (quoted below). 
157 Stobaeus ( SVF  iii 510) (quoted above, p. 726) attributes to him a distinction between (iv) and (v) which seems to accord perfectly with Cicero's. But beyond level (i), of which he must necessarily have taken account, Chrysippus will have allowed for an intermediary stage between (i) and (iv), the most advanced level: at least four stages in all. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
728
s t o i c   e t h i c s
formulations  by  successors  of  his  such  as  Diogenes  of  Babylon  and Antipater:
The first (i) appropriate action (this is my term for  kathe-kon) is to preserve oneself in one's natural constitution; the second (ii) is to seize hold of the things that accord with nature and to banish their opposites. Once this procedure of selection and rejection has been discovered, the next consequence (iii) is selection exercised with appropriate action; then, (iv) such  selection  performed  continuously;  finally,  (v)  selection  which  is absolutely consistent and in full accordance with nature. At this point, for the first time, that which can truly be called good begins to be present in a man and understood. (Cic.  Fin. iii.20, trans. after Long and Sedley) Implicit in this text is almost everything of importance which the Stoics had to say about appropriate actions,158 the activities which articulate the development of morality. What is most notable is that they were rooted in the impulse towards self-preservation innate in all living beings, extending even to animals. So continuity is established between the highest level of man's mental and moral development - (v) in Cicero's text - and the basic  self-preservation  mechanisms  of  the  living  being.  Appropriate actions typically assume, as their content and point of reference, 'things that accord with nature': these - the primary object of immediate aspiration (not yet sustained by rational choice) - continue to be the content and point of reference of gradually more elaborate and conscious choices made by the human subject in the later stages of his development. The naturalness  of  the  exercise  of  appropriate  actions  is  highlighted  by  the general  Stoic  definitions  of   kathe-konta (Stob.  ii.85.14;  D.L.  vii.107), which speak of them as 'activities that conform to constitutions in accord with nature', or as 'consequentiality in life', that is conformity with the existence that is natural for each living species. But we know159 that in the human species natural constitution and naturalness are not defined statically  once  and  for  all;  in  the  evolution  of  every  normally  endowed individual  the  emergence  of  reason  profoundly  transforms  his  natural constitution. As a result, the evolution of which only humanity is capable also  allows  the  definition  of  appropriate  actions  as  'that  which,  when done, permits a reasonable justification'.160
In  Cicero's  account,  the  emergence  of  reason  must  apparently  occur between stages (ii) and (iii); this obviously refers to a 'common' rational-158 Mentioned already, p. 697 and n. 67 above, where variant English versions of  kathe-kon  are indicated. 
159 Cf. above, pp. 679-80 and Long 1974, 187-92. See also Reesor 1989, 83-91. 
160 Stob. ii.85.14-15; D.L. vii.107. The translation and interpretation of the term  eulogos  are problematic. See in particular Forschner 1981, 187-92, and also Tsekourakis 1974, 26-30. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
m o r a l   p r o g r e s s
729
ity, clearly distinct from that state of perfection which the Stoics used to refer to by the expression 'right reason'. There should therefore be no possibility of confusion in the lower levels of moral development - (ii) to (iv)
- between the consequentiality which is manifest in the exercise of appropriate actions and perfect rational consistency, which constitutes the goal of  existence  and  which  Cicero  mentions  in  his  description  of  (v). 
Consequentiality of action is simply the adaptation of the agent's practical behaviour to the requirements of nature; it is not defined by also taking into consideration the interior dispositions which a◊ect the subject. 
Nevertheless, the distinction and transition between (iv) and (v) are quite di√cult  to  illustrate  -  and  it  is  perhaps  in  this  di√culty  that  certain ancient  and  modern  misrepresentations  of  Stoic  doctrine  have  their origin. 
The decisive point for understanding the issue is to notice that both in Cicero  and  -  even  more  clearly  -  in  the  formulation  attributed  to Chrysippus, what di◊erentiates (v) from (iv) is not the addition of some further  behaviour  or  activities  which  previously  (before  stage  (v))  were unknown  by  or  inaccessible  to  the  agent:  in  stage  (iv)  he  already  does everything that he continues to do in (v). But both texts indicate - in a remarkably  similar  way  -  that  the  di◊erence  between  the  two  stages  is exclusively  qualitative.  All  behaviours  remain  the  same,  but  somebody who has reached (v), the greatest good and happiness, does just the same things that he did when he was at stage (iv), but does them in a completely di◊erent way, with a disposition of absolute firmness and perfect consis-tency161 (it is notable that neither Chrysippus nor his followers put forward the question of  intention  here: the intention to do good would be recognized by the Stoics in one who was still a long way from virtue but was making e◊orts to get there). So there is excellent textual evidence for the tendency, widespread in modern scholarship,162 to distinguish virtuous behaviour from the behaviour of one who only acts in an appropriate way, not on the basis of  what  is done, but on the basis of  how  and  why  it is done. Thus one can perceive the reason why the Stoics had to include virtuous action in the scale of appropriate actions as the highest level, (v), only distinguishing it as 'perfect appropriate action' ( kathe-kon teleion) or
'right action' (the technical term here is  katortho-ma) from appropriate but not  yet  virtuous  actions,  which  were  called  'intermediate'  (as  in  the 161 Cf. also Sen.  Ep.  95.39-40, 57 which shows this aspect clearly. 
162 Something of a  communis opinio: cf. e.g. Nebel 1935, 441-2; Long and Sedley 1987, i.365-7. Two exceptions: Kidd 1978c; Engberg-Pedersen 1990, 128-30, whose interpretations however are hard to reconcile with Cic.  Fin. iii.20 and  SVF  iii 510. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
730
s t o i c   e t h i c s
Chrysippus  text,  already  mentioned  several  times).  The  coincidence  in exterior behaviours justified the inclusion in one category of two grades of conduct which were so di◊erent from the point of view of moral evaluation. 
Some texts (like Stob. ii.97.3 and Cic.  Fin.  iii.58-9) seem to imply or explicitly a√rm the existence of appropriate actions which would occupy an intermediate place between virtuous and vicious actions. They can be reconciled with the thesis according to which everything a non-virtuous man - i.e. a fool - would do is an error and a vice if we allow that they refer to  types, to general classes of action which are not in themselves or by definition distinctively vicious or distinctively virtuous: for example, walking,  asking  questions  or  replying  (these  are  Stobaeus'  examples  in  the passage cited); while every  particular case  of such a type would be necessarily,  in  its  actual  realization,  either  virtuous  behaviour  or  an  example  of vice. Walking thus counts as a virtuous action if one can attach to it the qualification that it is done wisely; but all cases in which someone who walks is a fool count as examples of error. But there is a further point to be added here: the rooting of appropriate actions in nature, together with the constant reference to things which accord with nature, gives us a way of defining behaviours which are distinctively and in themselves 'contrary to appropriate actions':
Appropriate actions are ones which reason dictates our doing, such as honouringparents, brothers and country, spendingtime with friends; contrary to appropriate actions are ones which reason dictates our not doing, such as neglecting parents, not caring about brothers, not treatingfriends sympathetically, not actingpatriotically, etc. (D.L. 
vii.108)
In  conclusion,  it  appears  that  human  behaviours  are  di◊erentiated  in Stoic descriptions much more finely than may be suggested by the radical dichotomy between vice and virtue, fools and wise men, right action and error. There is a scale of vicious actions. The basic level consists of actions done 'against the  kathe-kon', which are errors both from the point of view of the agent's interior disposition and given the objective of the action which is performed. An intermediate position - but still within the area of vice  -  is  occupied  by  'intermediate'  appropriate  actions:  these  are  still errors from the formal point of view which is concerned with the agent's disposition,  but  can  be  di◊erentiated  by  their  gradual  and  ever  closer approximation to virtue. Above absolute vice and intermediate functions stand perfect appropriate actions, i.e. the  katortho-mata, the right actions Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
m o r a l   p r o g r e s s
731
befitting virtue, described as 'appropriate actions having in full all measures'.163
*
As is suggested by the texts of Cicero and Chrysippus previously cited, and as is implied by the fact that there is no di◊erence in visible behaviours between those who perform appropriate actions and those who are virtuous, practising  kathe-konta  is the best way to try to become virtuous. 
The objective coincidence in behaviours between appropriate actions and virtue  therefore  shows  that  Stoicism  did  not  think  to  propose  two di◊erent moralities, one for the wise man and an inferior one164 accessible to fools with good intentions. And this also explains why Panaetius, at least to the extent that it is his teaching which is preserved in Cicero's De o√ciis, could base his analysis of di◊erent appropriate actions by referring each of them to one of the four primary virtues: in each case he started from the relevant final reference point. That Panaetius was not keen to accept the figure of the wise man as an explicit criterion of moral actions is well  documented,  but  it  can  be  explained  by  reasons165 other  than  a weakening of the traditional theoretical framework. 
Once  again,  however,  Stoic  virtue  was  not  exactly  the  same  as Aristotle's ethical virtue.166 We have seen that the performance of appropriate actions is not enough to lead to virtue if not accompanied by growing acquisition of knowledge. Here the instruments and contents of Stoic teaching,  divided  into  the  two  categories  of  'precepts'  and  'doctrines', come into play. The view which prevailed in the school167 was that the one had as much importance as the other in promoting the maturation of the person who was seeking to attain virtue, the so-called  prokopto-n  or  pro-
 ficiens.  Roughly  speaking,  the  precepts  told  a  person  what  to  do  or  to avoid in certain typical situations, while the doctrines explained the interconnection of the rules contributing to the attainment of a rational mode of existence in full accord with nature. 
The Stoics were certainly not sparing in articulating rules, warnings, exhortations and advice: Cicero's  De o√ciis, many of Seneca's letters and 163 Stob. ii.93.14, a passage already commented upon above p. 698. 
164 Contra e.g. Cic.  O◊.  iii.15: appropriate actions as ' quasi secunda quaedam honesta', 'a kind of secondary morality'. 
165 Suggested above, p. 727. 
166 See above, section viii. Aristotle's conception of ethical virtue requires acting on one's own wits ( EN  vi.13.1144a13-20), and therefore entails  phronêsis. But it is always a property of the irrational soul conditioned by habituation. 
167 For antecedent controversies see above, pp. 696-7, 709-11. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
732
s t o i c   e t h i c s
his treatise  De beneficiis  can still give an idea of the extreme detail to which they resorted in analysing possible situations and suggesting models of behaviour. But (as some Stoics must have been aware)168 no body of rules could ever be formulated with such particularity as to fit exactly all the infinitely varied situations in which humans find themselves. The impossibility  of  arriving  at  a  complete  set  of  rules  was  logically  tied  to  the impossibility of omniscience, even for a wise man: if such a set were to be attainable, the wise man would certainly have known it; and if there were rules  for  every  situation,  the  doctrines  would  be  rendered  useless.  One could therefore establish di◊erent rules for a series of typical situations. 
For example, rules for anyone who married a woman who had not been married before or for anyone who had to marry a widow, as is envisaged in Sen.  Ep.  94.15. But it would have been easier (and would be even easier nowadays) to imagine almost infinite variations on each of these two situations, and to object that one could never define as many rules as there were  di◊erent  situations169 in  which  anyone  who  was  about  to  marry could find himself:
We cannot embrace all kinds of case, even if each demands its own set of precepts . . . and I would add that the precepts of wisdom must be definite and certain; things which cannot be defined are outside the sphere of wisdom. (Sen.  Ep.  94.15-16)
So despite the rules which the  prokopto-n  would have known and assimilated, a situation would sooner or later occur in which he would have to make a decision without a precise criterion of behaviour, and rely instead on as much rational consistency as he had reached at that time thanks to his grasp of the doctrines. But was this not tantamount to leaving very dangerous areas of uncertainty open to the  prokopto-n? According to what Cicero reports ( O◊.  i.9, iii.7) Panaetius had in his writing on appropriate actions separated out three possible objects of deliberation: (1) whether an action is correct or base; (2) whether it is useful; (3) how to judge in cases where correct action  seems 170 to be in conflict with expediency. It seems obvious that a pretty moderate knowledge of the principal Stoic doctrines could help to resolve those cases which fell into the first two categories. Knowledge that virtue and vice are contradictory opposites, that the good is what is useful or something not di◊erent from what is useful, 168 Cf. Sen.  Ep.  94.15-16 (Aristo?) and also 51, 95.5. 
169 Here Stoicism seems very close to Aristotle; see for example   EN  ii.9, especially 1109a24-30, 1109b 14-23. 
170 An important qualification: only virtue can be 'advantageous'; there can be no genuine conflict with what is useful. Cf. Cic.  O◊.  i.9, iii.7. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
m o r a l   p r o g r e s s
733
and that virtue, virtuous actions and virtuous men satisfy this description; that only through virtue is it possible to achieve happiness: these are ideas which aid the resolution of those cases of uncertainty that fall under (1) and (2). But the real problem must have been posed by the third category, and in fact Cicero ( O◊.  iii.7-10) says that Panaetius never wrote the study he had promised. Some scholars suppose171 he did not write it because he was put o◊ by the di√culty of the problem. 
It  is  di√cult  to  say  why  Panaetius  abandoned  his  project.  But  we should not think the Stoics never had any suggestions to make regarding cases of conflict between interests and values. What is doubtful is whether they  reached  any  clean  decision.  For  example,  as  to  the  basic  notion  of
'appropriate actions' a distinction was introduced between 'appropriate actions regardless of circumstances' and 'appropriate actions dependent on circumstances':172
Some appropriate actions do not depend on circumstances, but others do. The following do not depend on circumstances, looking after one's health, and one's sense organs, and such like. Appropriate actions which do  depend  on  circumstances  are  mutilating  oneself  and  disposing  of one's property. And so analogously with actions which are contrary to appropriate action. (D.L. vii.108-9, trans. after Long and Sedley) This is tantamount to saying173 that taking care of one's health is something generally appropriate without there being any need to specify the circumstances  in  which  it  is  so;  while  self-mutilation  is  in  no  way  an appropriate action (and is indeed contrary to the natural impulse of self-preservation), but could become appropriate in certain specific circumstances. It is true that the problem would then become one of specifying the circumstances in which self-mutilation becomes appropriate, and that it  is  impossible  to  establish  these  in  their  totality  in  advance:  the  rules would not state the right moment, the how and the why, or up to what point (Sen.  Ep.  95.5). What can be acknowledged is an attempt on the part of the Stoics to delineate criteria for the resolution of such conflicts. 
Some have already been mentioned, for example, the superiority of spiritual values over material interests and the di◊erent distinctions which one can make among the indi◊erents.174 One important criterion, mentioned by  Cicero  ( Fin.  iii.64),  ruled  that  the  common  interest  should  be  put before personal advantage; but even the reference to general interests had 171 See Striker 1991, 47. 
172 Cf. N. P. White 1978. 
173 Cf. Engberg-Pedersen 1990, 137-8 and Boys-Stones 1996, 85-6. 
174 Cf. above, pp. 692, 695. On conflicting values, see also Striker 1991, 44-50. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
734
s t o i c   e t h i c s
its ambiguities, which could have been exploited by unsympathetic critics of Stoicism.175 However, even if one has to admit that the Stoics were in no position to specify rules or criteria that could resolve the issue in any situation of conflict whatever, one can nevertheless concede that the interaction  of  their  precepts  with  the  teaching  of  basic  doctrines  equipped humanity reasonably well for most normal situations in life, and helped the  prokopto-n  to take decisions which corresponded to appropriate actions. 
In  one  important  text  ( Diss.  ii.6.9)176 where  Epictetus  quotes  or  paraphrases  Chrysippus,  the  suggested  rule  ('always  cling  to  what  is  better suited to getting that which accords with nature') is immediately justified by appealing to the place of human choice in the providential scheme of cosmic nature - or of divine will, which is the same thing: 'for God himself made me such as to select these things'. Anyone who knows the rule and its cosmic and teleological foundation; anyone who, moreover, takes account of the limiting clause with which Chrysippus introduces the rule ('as long as  the  consequences  are  unclear  to  me':  an  allusion  to  the  deterministic framework within which future developments are pre-ordained, but also usually unknown to the agent, even to a wise man); anyone who knows all this  will  also  know  that  Stoic  philosophy  authorizes  him,  in  normal circumstances, to follow his own personal interests, to defend and to promote his own wellbeing. 
So  Stoicism  was  never  a  philosophy  of  sacrifice  and  self-denial.  That explains its success among the Roman aristocracy, a class not consisting solely of generous benefactors. Chrysippus even more explicitly (Cic.  O◊. 
iii.42) authorizes participation in competition for material gain, and also guarantees the lawfulness of private property (Cic.  Fin.  iii.67). The only conditions which he imposed were those which demanded honest competition  -  which  would  nowadays  seem  rather  imprecise  and  compatible with  a  completely   laissez-faire  attitude,  not  acceptable  to  supporters  of public intervention in cases of social and economic conflict. Here it would have been opportune to supply a solution to the disagreement possible between legal obligations and moral requirements, a disagreement which the  Stoics  apparently  recognized  rather  clearly,  as  witness  the  debate (probably  invented  by  Cicero)  between  Diogenes  of  Babylon  and Antipater.177 Such a solution seems not to have been found. Yet it would be wrong to accuse Stoicism of not measuring up to such di√culties; and the conditions stipulated by Chrysippus in the Cicero passage must sim-175 On this subject see Inwood 1984, 182-3, Atkins 1990, 275-7 and also below, p. 765. 
176 See above, p. 693. 
177 See Cic.  O◊.  iii.50-7, 91-2., with Annas 1989a. See also below, p. 765. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
m o r a l   p r o g r e s s
735
ply have led to the limiting clause specified in the Epictetus text: 'as long as the consequences are unclear'. 
*
The Stoics were not the first philosophers to tackle the problem of the moral  permissibility  of  suicide.  Plato  was  in  principle  against  it,178
though not without some ambiguities which could be exploited to support  exceptions;  but  the  Cynics  had  permitted  it,  though  they  did  not accord the matter much importance. Nor does it seem that even the Stoics paid much attention to it; the glorification of suicide as the supreme and perhaps only act of freedom on man's part is a peculiarity of Seneca,179
which has no parallel in the previous tradition. But the case of suicide is nonetheless  important  for  the  interpretation  of  Stoic  moral  thought, since the di√culties encountered in trying to establish rules suitable for all occasions are particularly evident here. 
There is some agreement among the sources in attributing to the Stoics the recognition that 'sometimes' (Cic.  Fin.  iii.60; Stob. ii.110.9) it could be an appropriate action for a man to take his own life; but there is also a certain reticence, at least in some formulations,180 to admit that such a possibility  is  also  valid  for  the  non-wise.  In  the  text  where  there  is  the most explicit recognition of the permissibility of suicide even for the non-wise  a  formal  rule  is  proposed  which  is  to  decide  in  what  situations  it becomes acceptable for everyone to abandon life:
When  a  man  has  a  preponderance  of  the  things  in  accordance  with nature, the appropriate action for him is remaining alive; when he has or foresees a preponderance of their opposites, the appropriate action is to depart from life. This clearly shows that it is sometimes an appropriate action both for the wise man to depart from life, although he is happy, and for a fool to remain alive, although he is wretched . . . The primary natural things, whether favourable or adverse, fall under the wise man's decision  and  choice,  forming  as  it  were  the  material  of  wisdom. 
Therefore, the reason for remaining in and departing from life is to be measured by those things . . . even for fools, who are wretched, remaining alive is plainly the appropriate action if they have a preponderance of 178  Phd.  61c-62c,  Leg.  873c-d. On the Cynics, see D.L. vi.24, 86 and on the whole subject, Rist 1969a, 233-55 and Cooper 1989. 
179 For  example,  see   De  Ira  iii.15.3-4,  Prov.  6.7,  Ep.  77.14-15.  On  Seneca,  see  Gri√n  1986  and Nussbaum 1994, 435-7. 
180 D.L. vii.130 speaks of the wise man; discussion by Rist 1969a, 239-42, Sandbach 1989 (1975), 49n. In the sources (especially  SVF  iii 764-8) justifiable suicide is constantly qualified by the adjective  eulogos, which is also applied to the reasonableness of appropriate actions, not just those performed by the wise man. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
736
s t o i c   e t h i c s
the things we call in accordance with nature. (Cic.  Fin.  iii.60-1, trans. 
Long and Sedley)
So, it would seem, both the wise man and the fool had well-founded reasons to commit suicide, if they found that they were undergoing intolerable su◊ering from an incurable illness (D.L. vii.130) or extreme poverty ( SVF  iii 768). In such conditions, it might seem sensible to grant to the non-wise also that the appropriate action would be to take their own lives. 
What is disputable,181 perhaps, is whether such a utilitarian calculus of gains and losses, to be computed before making a decision, is congruent with the basic assumptions of Stoicism. But there is no reason to think that  the  rule  recorded  by  Cicero182 constituted  the  sum  total  of  Stoic opinion about the problem: other accounts clearly mention the rationality of a suicide motivated by altruistic considerations (D.L. vii.130) or by the  desire  to  avoid  immoral  actions  which  might  be  imposed  upon  the subject by force ( SVF  iii 768). All this may perhaps indicate that in the course of Stoic history there were variations in the method of confronting and evaluating the problem; but it certainly shows that there was no  one Stoic  rule,  single  and  precise,  for  settling  the  question.  It  seems  more likely that the (di◊erent) conditions mentioned in the sources were meant only as examples of typical situations whose relevance to actual cases was to be decided by the agent. 
xi Determinism and ethics: impulse with
reservation
We have seen that under conditions normal for human beings, who are usually unaware of what the future will bring, Stoicism authorizes every agent to seek to follow 'things in accord with nature', and this is because it is God who has made men inclined towards this kind of choice. But the failures which very often follow the choices show that it was not really in accord  with  divine  will  that  the  objective  should  be  reached.  Besides, Chrysippus  himself,  according  to  the  text  of  Epictetus  we  have  several times relied on, continues his line of reasoning as follows:
But  if  I  knew  it  were  my  destiny  to  fall  ill  now,  my  impulse  would directly  turn  itself  towards  it;  and  my  foot,  if  it  had  the  intelligence, would have the impulse to cover itself with mud. (Epict.  Diss.  ii.6.9)183
181 And discussed in Long and Sedley 1987, i.428 (but see, contra, Cooper 1989, 27-9). 
182 Corroborated by Plutarch; see e.g.  Stoic. Rep.  1042c-d,  Comm. Not.  1063d. 
183 On the meaning of the last phrase, see Sandbach 1989 (1975), 36. Voelke 1973, 71-2, compares Diss.  ii.10.5-6. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
d e t e r m i n i s m   a n d   e t h i c s
737
But the fact is that nobody who feels well knows that he is destined to fall ill now; so any sensible person tries to stay healthy. On the other hand, Chrysippus  himself  had  stated,  in  commenting  on  his  definition  of  the telos, that virtue and happiness occur when all actions are performed in such a way as to keep the  daimo-n  located within a man (the soul, or its ruling part) in line with the divine will which governs the All (D.L. vii.88). 
How  is  it  therefore  possible  to  keep  in  line  with  the  divine  will,  as required by Chrysippus, when with everything - or almost everything -
that one does it is unknown whether it corresponds to that will? Because the  moral  duty  imposed  on  the  agent  must  not  turn  out  impossible  or contradictory,  Chrysippus  and  Stoicism  needed  to  be  able  to  show  a method of selection which would respect both the human inclination to follow things which conform to nature, and the divine will on which the attainment of those objects depended. And this had to be achieved without attributing special capacities for divination184 either to the common man or to the wise man. This apparently impossible task was performed in Stoicism  by  the  idea  of  'impulse  with  reservation',  which  Stobaeus describes thus:
They say that nothing happens to the good man which is contrary to his inclination ( orexis) or his impulse or his intention, on account of the fact that  he  does  everything  of  this  kind  with  a  reservation  ( hupexhairesis), and nothing which he would not want can happen unexpectedly. (Stob. 
ii.115.5-9)
The concept is further clarified by Seneca:
The wise man sets about every action with reservation: 'if nothing happens which might stop him'. For this reason we say that he always succeeds  and  that  nothing  unexpected  happens  to  him:  because  within himself he considers the possibility that something will get in the way and prevent what he is proposing to do. (Sen.  Ben.  iv.34.4) So if a person185 acts for the sake of things which conform to nature, but always with the interior reservation that he does what he does subject to conformity with divine and natural order, and with the presumption that the  outcome  could  also  be  adverse,  he  is  in  a  position  to  control  the impulses which move him to act, staying within the limits of reason and avoiding surrender to the excessive and rebellious impulses which are the 184 Or without advising constant recourse to diviners, which is not suggested by any of the sources. 
The Stoics did, however, admit the fallibility of human prediction: Cic.  Div.  i.124-5. 
185 Both Stobaeus and Seneca talk of the wise man, but it is evident that he serves as a model for all humanity. See also the continuation of the argument in Sen.  Ben.  iv.35. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
738
s t o i c   e t h i c s
passions. Impulse with reservation is precisely the opposite of 'excessive'
impulse which Stoic philosophy defines as passion; and it is the instrument whereby the assent given to propositions which commit the agent to  a  future  course  of  action  remains  consistent  with  rational  cosmic design - which might already have established that such an action would not be completed, or not have the outcome expected by the agent. In this way the agent could try to obtain the results he wanted while maintaining harmony with the general order of the cosmos. It was as if everyone were to act repeating to himself the words of Cleanthes:
Lead me, Zeus and Destiny, wherever you have ordained for me. For I shall follow unflinching. But if I become bad and unwilling, I shall follow none the less. (Epict.  Ench.  53, trans. Long and Sedley) The problem under discussion seems to have been the only one which in the eyes of the Stoics required an ethical treatment related to their general deterministic physics and teleology. What would probably seem to us an obvious problem - the question of autonomy and human responsibility -
must have remained unrecognized by them as a real or legitimate issue, since  not  one  of  the  three  manuals  of  Stoic  ethics  which  have  survived from ancient times in a nearly complete form take the slightest notice of it. The Stoics agreed to discuss it only in order to respond to the arguments  of  their  opponents,  who  were  at  first  principally  the  Academics, then, in Roman times, the Peripatetics and the Platonists; but they did not  give  it  space  in  their  ethical  expositions.  Moreover,  it  seems  they began to take it into consideration only from Chrysippus onwards: there is no compelling evidence of a clear assessment of the problem by Zeno and Cleanthes.186
The  objections put  forward against Stoicism are, essentially, three in number. It was asserted that in a fully deterministic universe, as the Stoics conceived  it,  (1)  human  initiative  and  action  became  useless,  because things would happen as they had to happen; (2) that nothing remained 'in man's  power',  nothing  was  'dependent  on  him'  any  more;  and  (3)  that responsibility and blame, punishments and rewards, condemnations and commendations  would  no  longer  make  any  sense.  Most  of  the  Stoic responses to these objections were closely tied to the conception of causality unique to the school, and have been examined in another part of this volume (see pp. 526-40). 
186 So Long and Sedley 1987, i.392. But see the story about Zeno in D.L. vii.23. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
22
Social and political thought
m a l c o l m   s c h o f i e l d
i Introduction
Hellenistic  political  philosophy  has  had  a  bad  press.1 In  lectures  published in 1983 the distinguished and influential ancient historian Moses Finley gave it as his view that Plato and Aristotle 'were the first genuine political theorists of antiquity, and the last'. For only they attempted 'a complete and coherent account' of the ideal society 'grounded in systematic  metaphysics,  epistemology,  psychology  and  ethics'.2 Some  thirty years earlier, in what remains an eminently serviceable general account of Greek political thought, T. A. Sinclair wrote as follows:3
Looking back over the political thought of the third century bc one cannot help being struck with its barrenness. This is of course due in part to the decline in the  polis  and in part to the loss of contemporary writings on the subject. But it is also due to the refusal or inability to relate political  thinking  to  the  material  conditions  in  which  men  lived.  Epicurus and Chrysippus did their best to help men to face life cheerfully, but the men whom they helped were the few, who had su√cient education to understand their message and su√cient leisure for lessons in philosophy. 
Finley and Sinclair are only echoing a long entrenched judgement which finds a classic formulation in the third volume of Zeller's great history of Greek  philosophy,  first  published  in  1852.  For  Zeller  the  Hellenistic period  found  the  Greeks  coping  with  a  deterioration  in  their  external circumstances, and particularly with loss of political self-determination as the monarchies of Alexander's successors eclipsed the city-state, by withdrawing into the inner world of self-consciousness. Philosophy facilitated and responded to this development by turning away from theory to practical concerns and by divorcing morals from politics.4 Zeller's story was not  original  with  him.  It  is  a  simplified  version  of  the  relevant  parts  of 1 Best comprehensive study: Aalders 1975; useful collection of texts in E. Barker 1956. 
2 Finley 1983, 124. 
3 Sinclair 1951, 261. 
4 Zeller 1909, 12-26. 
[739]
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
740
s o c i a l   a n d   p o l i t i c a l   t h o u g h t
Hegel's rich and powerful dialectical philosophy of history and history of philosophy,  according  to  which  the  characteristic  philosophies  of  the Hellenistic era, and Stoicism in particular, express the alienation of political impotence, and indeed the transition from  Sittlichkeit  and the oneness of man with community to  Moralität  and the emergence of the  individual moral agent. 
This complex of fact, pseudo-fact and interpretation is what in one version  or  another  sustains  the  prevailing  climate  of  opinion  about Hellenistic  political  and  social  thought.  Many  of  its  elements  will  not stand careful scrutiny, as will become clear as this chapter progresses. But the only real hope of displacing it is to construct a convincing alternative picture. 
ii An overview
One cause of the impression that political philosophy in the Hellenistic period was in decline is, as Sinclair suggests, the simple fact that most of what was written is now lost. Often we have nothing but the title of a treatise, or information about one or two details in a work which may throw little or no light on its general character. Yet the volume of writings on political themes in the Stoa and the Lyceum, at any rate, was evidently considerable. A rapid survey may be the best way to make the point. 
Plutarch begins his essay on Stoic self-contradictions with the charge that  although  the  leading  early  Stoics  wrote  a  great  deal  on  themes  in political philosophy - 'form of government ( politeia), being ruled and ruling, judging, using oratory' - none of them took up the responsibilities of political life ( Stoic. Rep.  1033 bc). He could also have mentioned titles such as  On Law (attested for Zeno, Chrysippus and Sphaerus),  On City and Law (Chrysippus),  On Concord (Chrysippus: a work which evidently used the pseudo-Platonic   Cleitophon  to  elaborate  Zeno's  ideas),  On  Laws  and   The Statesman (Cleanthes),  and   On  Kingship (Cleanthes,  Persaeus,  Sphaerus). 
Zeno's associate Persaeus wrote a critique of Plato's  Laws  in seven books and a  Spartan Constitution, and Stoic preoccupation with Sparta was sustained in the next generation by Sphaerus (adviser to Cleomenes III) in his On Lycurgus and Socrates, in three books, and  On the Spartan Constitution.5
But it would hardly have suited Plutarch's purposes to refer to Persaeus and Sphaerus, whose role as court philosophers was well known. 
5 Evidence on titles: Zeno, D.L. vii.4; Persaeus, D.L. vii.36; Cleanthes, D.L. vii.175; Sphaerus, D.L. vii.178; Chrysippus, Plu.  Stoic. Rep.  1037f, Marc.  Inst.  i.11.25 [ On Law], Athen. 267b [ On Concord], Phld.  Stoic ( PHerc. 155 and 339, col. 15.26-7) [ On City and Law]. Contrary views on the extent  of  Stoic  influence  on  Spartan  politics  of  the  third  century  bc are  o◊ered  e.g.  by Tigerstedt 1974 (sceptical) and Erskine 1990 (sanguine). 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
a n   o v e r v i e w
741
The Spartan orientation of much of this writing reminds us that the most famous advocate in antiquity of a Lycurgan or mixed constitution, represented  as  the  original  Spartan  model,  was  a  thinker  of  the  early Hellenistic period, Aristotle's pupil Dicaearchus, author, for example, of a Constitution of the Spartans  as well as the  Tripoliticus, the work which probably  contained  the  principal  statement  of  his  position.6 Among  other Peripatetics it is a safe conjecture that no philosopher in antiquity wrote more extensively on political themes than Theophrastus. We hear of treatises  on,  for  example,  politics  (in  six  books),  political  customs  (in  four), politics  for  critical  moments  (also  in  four),  and  a  collection  of  laws  in twenty-four books, as well as shorter works on e.g. tyranny, kingship and the best constitution. His student Demetrius of Phaleron, who became a leading figure in Athenian politics, also wrote a great deal on the subject. 
Until  the  Lyceum  sank  into  relative  obscurity  after  Strato,  himself  the author of  On Kingship  and  On Lives, politics was evidently an absorbing interest of the school both in theory and in practice.7
Cicero in writing to his Epicurean friend Atticus refers at one point to a notorious  disagreement  between  Dicaearchus  and  Theophrastus  on whether  the  active  or  the  contemplative  life  is  to  be  preferred  ( Att. 
ii.16.3).  This  dispute  indicates  something  of  the  intellectual  climate  in which Epicurus wrote a treatise in four books on the choice of lives ( On Lives). The information that the Cynic way of life was rejected in this work gives  a  clue  to  another  element  in  the  background  to  it  (shared  with Zeno's  Republic). Epicurus' advocacy of the 'quiet' life in  On Lives  was in turn a target of Chrysippus'  On Lives, likewise in four books, which envisaged  an  active,  public  mode  of  existence  for  the  wise  man.  But  in Epicurus' extant writings the leading political ideas are those relating to law and justice. And of all the writings of Chrysippus which fall within the  scope  of  this  chapter,  probably  none  was  more  important  to  the author  or  to  posterity  than  a  sequence  of  treatises  on  justice,  a  topic which from  the  Sophists  and  Plato  onwards  was  at  the  heart  of  Greek philosophical thought about the  polis  and society.8
6 The  Tripoliticus (Cic.  Att. xiii.32, Athen. 141a-c) is in fact often taken to be the same work as the Constitution (Suda  s.v.  Dicaearchus). For discussion see e.g. Rawson 1969, 82-3. Dicaearchus'
position: Phot.  Bibl. 37. Standard modern work on ancient theories of the mixed constitution: Aalders 1968. 
7 Evidence on titles: Theophrastus, D.L. v.42-50; Strato, D.L. v.59-60; Demetrius, D.L. v.80-1. 
Cf. Cic.  Leg. iii.14. 
8 Epicurus  On Lives: D.L. x.28,119; Chrysippus  On Lives: four books, Plu.  Stoic. Rep. 1043a; advocates  political  activity,  D.L.  vii.121;  rejection  of  Epicurean  view,  Plu.  Stoic.  Rep.  1033d.  A general  study  of  the  genre:  Joly  1956.  Chrysippus'  writings  on  justice;  Plu.  Stoic.  Rep. 
1040a-1041e; other references collected in  SVF  iii p.195. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
742
s o c i a l   a n d   p o l i t i c a l   t h o u g h t
iii On kingship
Treatises   On  Kingship  have  been  mentioned  more  than  once  among  the titles  listed  in  section  ii.  Given  the  dominance  of  monarchies  in  the Hellenistic world, and the elaborate ideology of kingship associated with them, the likely contents of works bearing this title have been the focus of considerable  speculation.  Speculation  it  has  had  to  be,  since  no  extant example of the genre has survived from the period covered by this volume. 
There  are  extracts  preserved  in  Stobaeus  from  a  number  of  treatises ascribed to Pythagorean authors which have sometimes been regarded as Hellenistic  productions,  notably  writings  on  kingship  attributed  to Diotogenes, Ecphantus, and Sthenidas. But the most authoritative research on  this  and  similar  pseudonymous  material  indicates  a  middle  Platonist milieu and a date around the turn of the first and second centuries ad.9
Our  best  evidence  for  the  character  of  Hellenistic  kingship  treatises comes  from  two  documents,  one  dating  from  the  second  century  bc, probably its first half, but sometimes put as late as 10 0 bc, the other at least thirty years after that. The earlier is a curious account of how the Greek translation of the Pentateuch was made, purporting to have been composed by a Greek o√cial called Aristeas from the court of Ptolemy Philadelphus (283-246 bc), and known as the  Letter of Aristeas. The section of the book which concerns us (sections 187-294) explains that each of the seventy-two wise translators was asked in turn a di◊erent question by Ptolemy. It sets out all the questions together with the answers they received. Much of the material concerns the proper conduct of kingship in particular or government in general. There is nothing much in the way of argument, and the sequence of topics seems largely haphazard. Despite some theological emphases reflecting the author's Judaism, it is generally agreed that he draws on Greek, and therefore presumably mostly earlier Hellenistic, sources, although the question-answer format is probably his own contribution.10 The other document is preserved in a fragmentary condition among the Herculaneum papyri: an essay by Philodemus, dedicated to his patron L. Calpurnius Piso, entitled  On the Good King according to Homer ( PHerc. 1507). As the title indicates, Philodemus illustrates from Homer  the  qualities  and  behaviour  proper  to  a  king.  The  themes  he 9 Ideology of kingship: see e.g Sinclair 1951, ch.xiv, Walbank 1984 (with further bibliography); Pythagorean  treatises:  Stob.  Ecl.  iv.6.22,  7.64  (Ecphantus),  7.61-2  (Diotogenes),  7.63
(Sthenidas),  also  available  in  Thesle◊  1965;  the  most  authoritative  research:  Delatte  1942, supplemented  by  Burkert  1972,  Centrone  1990,  Squilloni  1991  (contra  e.g.  Thesle◊  1961, 1972). 
10 See further Murray 1967, Fraser 1972, i.696-703, ii.970-82. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
o n   k i n g s h i p
743
chooses no doubt reflect the emphases of earlier Hellenistic writing on kingship, even if the Homeric variations are his own.11
These two writings tell the reader what is the function of a king and how  fundamental  virtue  and   self-rule  are  to  all  his  behaviour,  and  they pronounce on many specific spheres of regal conduct or interest: worship of the gods, choice and use of friends, treatment of the citizens, warfare, leisure, daily life, decision making, legislation. The king must rule justly and  promote  peace,  and  in  particular  he  must  exhibit  such  qualities  as humanity  ( philanthro-pia),  forbearance  ( epieikeia)  and  gentleness  ( pra-ote-s, he-merote-s), widely attested elsewhere as key ingredients in the ideology of Hellenistic  rulers  fostered  both  by  them  and  their  subjects.  This  is  all reminiscent  of  the  advice  which  fills  most  of  the  pages  of  for  example, Isocrates'  To Nicocles. Like Isocrates, Aristeas and Philodemus are o◊ering the  sort  of  edification  characteristic  of  the  later  'mirror  of  princes'.  To Nicocles  is not a work of theory: no more are the  Letter  and  On the Good King. In particular, they resemble Isocrates' treatise in o◊ering no theoretical discussion of the di◊erent forms of government and their comparative merits, nor any defence of kingship as the best constitution.12
Despite  the  hazards  of  argument  from  silence,  it  seems  not  unlikely that many of the treatises  On Kingship  ascribed to Hellenistic philosophers (Epicurus among them: D.L. x.28) were of this same character. Our almost total  absence  of  information  about  their  contents  itself  suggests  that  a Stoic or Epicurean work on kingship was not the place to look for major or distinctive statements on issues of philosophical importance, but only for variations on stock themes inherited from  To Nicocles  and similar writings.13 This conjecture is reinforced if as seems likely some at least of the Hellenistic   On  Kingship  treatises  were  addressed  to  monarchs,  as Philodemus' treatise was dedicated to a leading Roman senator: Persaeus spent much of his life at the court of Antigonus Gonatas in Macedon, and Sphaerus acted as adviser to Cleomenes III of Sparta.14 There is in fact no 11 See further Murray 1965, Dorandi 1982a, Gigante 1995, ch.4. 
12 Nor is concern that a king observe the law (something  Letter  279 certainly enjoins) given prominence, although this is a key theme of the treatment of Egyptian kingship by the very early Hellenistic savant Hecataeus of Abdera, summarized in the history of Diodorus Siculus (especially i.69-71). See further Murray 1970. The idea of the king as  nomos empsuchos, 'living law', is not found until later, principally in the pseudo-Pythagorean literature. 
13 The evidence for early Stoicism contains surprisingly little discussion of any kind about kingship.  Erskine  1990,  ch.  3,  can  even  argue  (wrongly)  that  Stoic  thought  'inclined  towards democracy'. For Epicureanism see Fowler 1989, 129-33, who convincingly rebuts attempts to interpret the school as favouring monarchy. 
14 'Demetrius of Phalerum advised King Ptolemy to read the books dealing with kingship and leadership: the advice their friends don't like to give kings is written in these books' (ps.-Plu. 
 Apophthegm.189d). 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
744
s o c i a l   a n d   p o l i t i c a l   t h o u g h t
good  evidence  that  either  Epicurus  or  the  early  Stoics   anywhere  took  a stand on the comparative merits of the di◊erent constitutions or on the claims of kingship (such claims as are advanced, e.g. in Hdt. iii.82 or Isoc. 
 Nicocles  14-26  [a  companion  piece  to   To  Nicocles],  and  a  little  after  our period  in  Cic.  Rep.  i.56-64).  One  notorious  text  admittedly  makes Stoicism favour a  mixed  constitution (D.L. vii.131) along the same lines as Polybius or Cicero; and it might appear tempting to connect this with the attention Persaeus and Sphaerus devoted to the Spartan constitution. But if  as  is  likely  their  thinking  was  governed  by  the  principles  of  Zeno's Republic, Sparta will have impressed them more by the concord, freedom and  security  which  allegedly  flowed  from  the  virtue  fostered  by  equal property  and  communal  living  arrangements  (cf.  Plb.  vi.48.2-3,  with Athen. 561c).15 If the Stoics did come to favour the idea of the mixed constitution, this development should be dated to the time of the revisionist Panaetius.16 In any event, neither they nor the Epicureans appear to have supplied Hellenistic monarchs with a philosophical defence of the institution of kingship. 
iv Polybius on the growth and decline of
constitutions
The longest essay in political theory to survive more or less intact from the Hellenistic  period  is  preserved  in  the  extensive  remains  of  Book  vi of Polybius'  Histories.17 Polybius was no philosopher himself. But he draws on a variety of philosophical sources, some still identifiable, some not, to produce a striking exercise in constitutional analysis. The analysis has two main components: first the idea that constitutions flourish and then decay according  to  a  natural  cyclical  pattern;  second  the  notion  that  a  mixed constitution, such as at Sparta or in contemporary Rome (i.e. the mid-second century bc), has the strength to resist decline much longer than any other. Polybius is interested here in the  polis, not in huge Hellenistic kingdoms; it seems scarcely an accident that his focus is the one major contemporary state that was a republic, not a monarchy. The surviving parts of Book vi do not contain material in which he worked out the details of the application of his cyclical scheme to the special case of Rome. But there 15 Cf. e.g. Gri√n 1976, 203-4. 
16 This conjecture has become the standard modern view: see e.g. Aalders 1975, 10 0-2, Long and Sedley 1987, vol. ii, 429. Cf. Cic.  Fin. iv.79. 
17 Detailed analysis by Walbank 1957, 635-63 (cf. also Walbank 1972, ch.5); subsequent discussion  of  sources  by  Cole  1964  and  1967;  a  good  brief  account  of  the  theoretical  content  by Aalders 1975, 105-12; a full and persuasive treatment by Trompf 1979, ch. 1. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
p o l y b i u s   o n   c o n s t i t u t i o n s 745
can be no doubt that the point of introducing and expounding the scheme was principally to explain the durability of Rome's success as the dominant power in the Mediterranean world, particularly by comparison with Sparta and Carthage, another city which had (or had had) a mixed constitution according to his account.18 And it is not di√cult to divine at least the broad outlines of the cyclical version of Roman history that Polybius must have had in mind. 
We should start where Polybius himself begins, with classification of constitutional forms. A key claim of his is that the popular tripartite division - kingship, aristocracy, democracy - is a mistake (vi.3.5-12). These are neither the only forms nor the best. The best is the mixed or Lycurgan constitution:  conceived  along  Dicaearchan  lines  as  a  blend  of  kingship (represented at Rome by the consuls), aristocracy (the senate) and democracy  (the   populus).  And  there  are  also  what  Aristotle  would  have  called deviations corresponding to each of the simple forms:
It is by no means every monarchy which we should call straight o◊  king-
 ship, but only that which is voluntarily accepted, and governed by rational  judgement  rather  than  fear  and  force.  Nor  again  should  every oligarchy be considered  aristocracy, but that which is presided over, on the  basis  of  a  selection,  by  the  justest  and  wisest  men.  Similarly  we should not count as  democracy  a system of government  (suste-ma) in which the whole populace has authority to do whatever it wishes and proposes: but where it is traditional and customary to reverence the gods, honour parents, respect older people, and obey the laws - when in systems of government  of  that  sort  the  decision  of  the  majority  prevails,  this  we should call  democracy.19 (Plb. vi.4.2-5)
Polybius illustrates his idea of a cycle by specifying a typical pattern of
'revolution' ( anakuklo-sis) into which he fits the growth and decline of each of  the  unmixed  forms  of  good  constitution.20 Kingship  is  born  from monarchy and declines into its deviant form, tyranny, which supplies the conditions for the rise of aristocracy, destined in its turn to degenerate into oligarchy. From oligarchy democracy will in due course emerge and then in due course change into mob rule, creating once again the conditions for monarchy. 
18 See especially vi.9.10-14; cf. vi.48-57 for the comparisons with Sparta and Carthage. 
19 Notice the systematic coupling of moral with strictly constitutional provisions: the twin criteria of consent and rational rule in the case of kingship, the requirement that an aristocracy be elected, and the insistence that for a democracy popular sovereignty is not enough - as indeed Aristotle thought, although he made concern for the common good, not control by a moral majority, the extra desideratum. 
20 vi.4.7-9.9. Cf. Ry◊el 1949, Walbank 1957, 643-8, Trompf 1979, ch. 1. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
746
s o c i a l   a n d   p o l i t i c a l   t h o u g h t
'This', says Polybius (vi.9.10) 'is the cycle of constitutions, this is the dispensation  of  nature  by  which  constitutions  change  and  are  transformed and once again return to themselves.' As in Polybius' Greek, I have employed biological metaphors to articulate the theory. But he grounds it in what he claims is a quite general law of nature.  Everything  is subject to natural  and necessary  decay  into its opposite, or more specifically 'into the bad condition that is proprietary to it and follows upon it naturally'
(vi.10.2). This is true not just of biological organisms but of iron and tim-ber, subject as these are respectively to rust and to inbred pests (vi.10.3).21
The most interesting feature of Polybius' political theory is his identification of a specific kind of natural necessity governing the flourishing and corruption  of  constitutional  forms.  He  works  out  his  explanation  in terms  of  social  psychology.22 The  general  pattern  is  as  follows.  A  good constitution comes into being when, compelled by fear of a common danger, humans use their intelligence and experience in disciplined co-operation  to  achieve  communal  security.  But  over  a  period  security  breeds complacency,  which  brings  about  a  collective  amnesia  and  indiscipline that  encourages  indulgence  of  individual  passions  and  appetites  and excesses in behaviour - and ultimately ensures despotic rule of one sort or another,  whether by a tyrant or a  junta  or a  mob. Polybius applies  this scheme to each in turn of the three episodes which constitute his example of  a  typical  cycle  (kingship/tyranny;  aristocracy/oligarchy;  democracy/mob rule), with appropriate variations in the details. 
There is much here that is reminiscent of earlier political philosophy. 
The general notion of 'change of constitutions' ( metabole- politeio-n) is, as Polybius himself suggests, familiar from Plato's  Republic, as is the decision to couch explanations of such change in psychological terms. We may also be reminded of Herodotus: as well as a verbal echo at the very end of Book vi,23 the  categories  in  which  degeneration  is  explained  -  luxury,  hubris, and  consequent  envy  and  hatred  -  are  the  same  as  Herodotus  himself employed in constitutional analysis (iii.80-2). But as we shall see in section v, it is evidently Epicureanism which suggests to Polybius his focus on communal danger and security, and the idea of articulating changing responses  to  them  in  terms  principally  of   social  psychology.  Also Epicurean in many key features is the account he gives of the origins of civilization and the conversion of monarchy into kingship.24
21 But corrupt conditions are not themselves subject to this law of corruption, for which cf. Plato Rep. x.608e-609a. 
22 See Hahm 1995. 
23 Freedom  and  democracy,  he  says  sarcastically,  have  'the  fairest  name  of  all'  (57.9):  cf.  Hdt. 
iii.80.6. 
24 But while Epicureans apparently believed that monarchy was the original form of rule (Lucr. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
p o l y b i u s   o n   c o n s t i t u t i o n s 747
This part of the  anakuklo-sis  story (vi.5.4-6.12) has more subtlety and intellectual  content  than  the  later  phases.  Its  epistemological  status  is constantly stressed: Polybius is o◊ering us a  probable  account, derived to begin with from analogy with animal behaviour.25 Monarchy is the original form of rule, and represents an assertion of strength by the leader of the pack, which herds together owing to natural weakness. It evolves into kingship  only  when  society  is  established  and  men  are  able  to  reflect rationally - something that distinguishes them from other animals - on each other's behaviour. They note with displeasure acts of ingratitude and recognize that in future they may themselves be victims of such conduct. 
This is the origin of the concept of justice: men acquire a sense of appropriate action ( kathe-kon).26 Similarly, when they observe someone conspicuous  in  defence  of  the  community,  they  conceive  of  the  noble  and  the shameful: the one is imitated because it is advantageous, the other avoided because it is not. When a monarch governs his own conduct in accordance with the noble and the just so conceived, it is no longer fear of force but an approving recognition of his rational judgement which leads men to support and maintain his rule. Monarchy thereby graduates insensibly into kingship. 
How is the mixed constitution of the Roman republic to be fitted into Polybius' story of the rise and fall of constitutions? Reflection on the limited scope of the law of nature to which his story appeals will suggest an answer. What that law states is simply that everything is necessarily corrupted into an opposite condition. There is no similar necessity attaching to the transition  from  a corrupt condition. Consider in particular the form of constitution one might expect to follow the overthrow of a tyrant. The leaders of the uprising which achieves it will doubtless play a dominant role in the next phase of political activity. But a pure form of aristocracy is not the only conceivable outcome, even if - as Polybius' paradigm indicated - it is the typical sequel. Another possibility is a mixed constitution, with democratic and regal as well as aristocratic features. And it appears that according to Polybius this is just what did follow the downfall of the Tarquins at Rome.27
Polybius' description of Lycurgus' comparable constitution at Sparta v.1105-12), they saw the next stage as the invention of law under the influence of 'wise men': see the extracts from Hermarchus presented in section v (echoed at Lucr. v.1143-50). 
25 The emphasis on probability contrasts with the necessity of the natural law of corruption to which Polybius appeals elsewhere. Clearly that law cannot be used to explain the  rise  of kingship. 
26 An isolated echo of Stoic ethics. 
27 Cf.  Trompf  1979,  ch.  1.  The  main  reason  for  ascribing  this  view  to  Polybius,  other  than  its concinnity with the surviving fragments of Book vi, is that Cicero o◊ers just such a version of Roman history in  Rep. ii. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
748
s o c i a l   a n d   p o l i t i c a l   t h o u g h t
reveals further reflection on the paradoxical dependence of security upon fear. The superiority of a mixed constitution derives from its institutionalization  of  fear:  Polybius  is  apparently  the  inventor  of  the  notion  of  a Machiavellian28 internal 'balance' of fear:
Lycurgus . . . did not make his constitution simple and uniform, but collected together all the virtues and distinctive characteristics of the best systems of government, so that no element should grow beyond what it ought and be perverted into its congenital vices. His aim was that, the force of each element being pulled back by another, none of them should tip the scales anywhere, still less pull the balance down a long way, but the system of government should remain for a long time in equipoise and equilibrium  according  to  the  principle  of  counteraction.29 Kingship would be prevented from arrogance by fear of the populace, which was to be given a su√cient share in the constitution. The populace in turn would  not  venture  to  treat  the  kings  with  contempt  from  fear  of  the elders,  who  being  chosen  on  the  basis  of  selection  on  merit  would  all of them be sure to incline always to justice. Thus the part consisting of those who because of adherence to traditional customs were in danger of being diminished would always become greater and weightier, because of the inclination and gravitation of the elders. In consequence by drawing up his constitution in this way he preserved liberty for the Spartans for the longest period we have knowledge of. (Plb. vi.10.6-11) Lycurgus is portrayed as a thinker who reasoned all this out on his own, and was then able - in undisclosed circumstances - to put his ideas into practice. The Romans achieved the same goal (cf. vi.18) 'not by reason, but by many struggles and troubles, always choosing the better solution as a result of the teaching of their reverses' (vi.10.14). The outcome is 'the finest of the constitutions of our time'. Polybius makes clear (even if he is diplomatic enough not to state outright) that it will in time inevitably disintegrate in corruption. His own work is designed to furnish the analytical  basis  on  which  observers  may  construct  their  prognostications (vi.3.1-4, 4.11-13, 57.4-10). 
v Epicureanism on security
In the absence of any surviving treatise on political themes from Epicurus'
own  pen,  we  are  obliged  to  search  through  his  fragments  and  those  of other early Epicureans, but especially the sayings and extracts collected in 28 Cf. Machiavelli  Discorsi  i.1-7. 
29 Reading α0ντιπαθι!α (Walbank) in place of α0ντιπλοι!α MSS. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
e p i c u r e a n i s m   o n   s e c u r i t y 749
the  Kuriai Doxai, for evidence of his views.30 Readers have formed contrary impressions of the message which they contain. For many the keynote is Epicurus' advice that the life free from disturbance and anxiety is best pursued away from political activity and its temptations. In recent years some scholars have given more weight to the high positive evaluation in Epicureanism of the notion of a law-governed political community; and Epicurus' contractarian theory of justice has attracted particular attention.31 But there is a further concept Epicurus deploys in his treatment of both these themes which supplies the clue to the motivation of all his social and political thinking:  security ( asphaleia), together with its verb equivalent  being confident ( tharrein).32
To get a first sense of the way reference to security works in the relevant texts  we  may  begin  with  three  remarks  which  between  them  cover  the basic  range  of  Epicurean  concern  with  society.  The  first  is  quoted  by Plutarch from the end of a book by Colotes:
Those who put in order laws and customs and established kingship and government in cities brought life into a state of much security and tranquillity and banished turmoil. If anyone gets rid of these things, we shall live the life of the beasts, and one man on meeting another will practically devour him. (Plu.  Col.  1124d)
But social security is not enough, as Epicurus himself insists at  KD  13: There is no benefit in creating security with respect to men if things up above and things beneath the earth and generally things in the infinite cause apprehension. 
Freeing men's minds from fear of death and the gods is of much greater importance than the achievement of security  vis-à-vis  other humans, as is to be inferred from the prominence accorded to the need for a proper view of the gods and the afterlife at the beginning of the  Letter to Menoeceus  and again the  Kuriai Doxai. None the less personal fears and social security are closely connected subjects; the sort of thinking appropriate to the one is also apposite to the other:
30 No use is made here of Lucretius v.925-1157. Its treatment of the origins and growth of civilization  undoubtedly  exploits  authentic  Epicurean  material  (with  1120-30  compare   KD  7;  with 1151-7  KD  35). But some of its key ideas are hard to square with e.g. Hermarchus', as when it attributes  the  two  main  phases  of  community-building  to  the  softening  (1011-23)  and  the exhaustion (1143-50) of human nature. Lucretius' interest in technology probably derives from non-Epicurean sources (cf. Cole 1967); and a distinctively Lucretian vantage-point can also be shown to be in evidence (cf. Furley 1978). See further Manuwald 1980, Schiesaro 1990. 
31 Major studies: Philippson 1910 (which already demonstrates that Epicurus had a political philosophy), Müller 1972, Goldschmidt 1977, Long 1986b, Mitsis 1988a, Alberti 1995. 
32 A study specifically devoted to Epicurus' concept of social security is Barigazzi 1983. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
750
s o c i a l   a n d   p o l i t i c a l   t h o u g h t
The same judgement that makes us confident on account of there being nothing terrible that lasts for ever, or even for long, also makes us perceive  how  security  within  these  very  determinations  is  especially  perfected by friendship.33 ( KD  28)
This observation is not wholly perspicuous. The idea is perhaps that the same policy which inspires the imperative: 'Find a way to minimize the grounds of fear and anxiety', enables us to find in friendship a way to max-imize  the  chances  of  pleasure  and  tranquillity.  The  personal  and  social dimensions of the policy are two sides of one coin. 
'Security with respect to men' ( KD  13) is an expression which in one variant or another recurs a number of times in the  Kuriai Doxai. Thus  KD  6
talks of the goal of 'being confident from men', which must be a derivative of 'security from men' ( KD  7, 14: 'from' is plainly defensive), and is to be compared  with  'being  very  confident  from  neighbours'  ( KD  40).  It  is
'security from men' that Colotes probably has chiefly in mind when he praises the work of the original law-givers. But we should not forget that the need for security against wild animals is made an important element in the  account  of  the  origins  of  law  o◊ered  by  Epicurus'  successor Hermarchus.34 Hermarchus is worth quoting  in extenso, since the extract from him on this subject quoted by Porphyry is not only the longest early text on Epicurean social and political thought that we possess, but also a◊ords an excellent insight into the central place of the concept of security within it. 
*
An account of the structure of the key passage (Porph.  Abst.  i.10-11) will provide a convenient framework for discussion of its treatment of security as the motivation, first for the formation of society in the first place, and then for the introduction of law subsequently:
(1) In determining what we should and should not do, the first legisla-tors had good reason for not prohibiting the destruction of any of the other animals [sc. apart from man]. For in their case advantage resulted from the opposite action. For self-preservation would not have been possible if men did not attempt to defend themselves [sc. against the animals] by virtue of a joint livelihood with each other. 
33 Reading  φιλι!α/ (von der Muehll) for  φιλι!α (MSS) and  κατειδε!ναι (Bollack) for  κατει4ναι
(MSS). 
34 Extracted from his  Against Empedocles: see further Longo Auricchio 1988, Obbink 1988 (also Vander Waerdt 1988). 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
e p i c u r e a n i s m   o n   s e c u r i t y 751
Section (1) is clear enough. It tells us that the first law givers did not forbid the killing of other animals (as they did homicide), since only by defending themselves against the beasts could men survive. The clause translated
'by  virtue  of  a  joint  livelihood  with  one  another'  is  a  participial  phrase which appears to suggest that a necessary means to self-defence was adoption of a communal form of human life. This theme will be pursued further in what follows. 
(2) Some of the finer minds of that time remembered distinctly that they themselves refrained from killing [sc. other men] on account of its usefulness  for  self-preservation  ( sote-ria);  and  they  produced  in  the  rest  a memory of  what resulted [sc. from refraining from homicide]  in  their joint livelihood with each other, in order that by keeping their hands o◊
their own kind they might safeguard the community, which contributed to the individual preservation of each person. Existing as a separate community  and doing no harm to those gathered  into the  same place  was useful  not  only  for  the  expulsion  of  animals  of  other  species  but  also against humans who turned up intent on harm. 
What bearing does section (2) have on the main thesis of section (1)? It provides a first quick indication of how the desire for laws arose in the first place, and as such is a natural sequel not just to section (1) in our text but to the whole treatment of law in general and the law against homicide in  particular  summarized  by  Porphyry  in  the  immediately  preceding pages. Some of the 'finer minds' at the time of the initial institution of laws  got  people  in  general  to  remember  something  that  had  tended  to become forgotten about the basis of society, namely that not killing one's neighbours is to one's  own  advantage, since that way the community will be  best  placed  to  defend  itself  against  the  animals  and  against  hostile humans beyond its limits. This achievement of the 'finer minds' indicates the complexity of the Epicurean theory of social security. Security against wild animals and hostile human neighbours is the primary goal. But the community needed to promote it in turn requires a solidarity of purpose among fellow-citizens which is premissed on security against any hostile intentions   they  may  have:  hence  in  due  course  the  introduction  of  law. 
Epicurus'  'security  from  men'  presumably  covers  both  neighbours  and citizens. What social security consists in - to return to Hermarchus - is
'the individual preservation of each person', and his 'absence of fear', as section (3) will explain. 
(3) For a time, then, men for this reason kept their hands o◊ their own kind - as many of them as entered into the same sharing of necessities and Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
752
s o c i a l   a n d   p o l i t i c a l   t h o u g h t
provided services for each of the two purposes mentioned above. But as time went on, and interbreeding had forged ahead, and animals of other species had been extruded, and the scattering [of men apart from each other was a thing of long past],35 some undertook a rational appraisal, not merely non-rational memory, of what was advantageous in their livelihood from each other. Consequently they tried to impose more secure restraints on those who were ready to kill each other and were weakening the capacity for defence because of their forgetfulness of the past. In trying to do this they introduced the legislation which still remains in force today among cities and peoples. The masses complied with their legisla-tors voluntarily, as a result of having by now acquired more of a perception  of  what  was  advantageous  in  their  collecting  together  with  one another. For their absence of fear was promoted equally by the merciless killing of everything harmful and the preservation of every means to its destruction. Consequently, with good reason, one of the types of killing we have mentioned was forbidden, the other permitted. 
Section (3) gives a fuller (although still sketchy) genetic account of the origin of law. A number of stages are identified.  First  is a period - doubtless beginning  with  the  initial  formation  of  societies  -  in  which  people refrained from homicide for the reason identified in (2). Other evidence suggests that this conduct was probably represented by Epicureans as a natural  although  rational  response  by  primitive  man  to  his  surroundings.36 The fear of animals and of attacks from other humans will have resulted in the spontaneous formation of communities for defensive purposes; and likewise a spontaneous mutual regard will have grown naturally among their members in these pressing circumstances.  Then  comes a period when 'forgetfulness of the past' sets in. The reasons for this are briefly  and  indeed  cryptically  expressed.  They  are  apparently  three  in number: (a) interbreeding - presumably with members of other communities, diminishing the fear of other men beyond the limits of one's own community; (b) wild animals have been extruded - wolves, lions, etc. no longer dare to live near human settlements, attacks by them upon members of the community are infrequent, and so doubtless they are not so 35 There  are  some  obscurities  in  the  text  at  this  point.  'Interbreeding'  translates  τη4  δι'
α0λλη!λων γενε!σεω, otherwise rendered '[increase in] population' (Long and Sedley): an odd phrase  either  way,  with  the  decision  associated  with  the  issue  of  whether  fear  of  attack  is regarded as blunted by kinship relations with potential enemies or by strength in numbers. 
Before or after 'the scattering' (τη! παρασπα!ρσεω) some words must have dropped out: the supplement suggested here assumes that Hermarchus is envisaging a period before civilization when men had lived in scattered settlements (σπορα!δην, Plato  Prt. 322ab, D.S. i.8.1). 
36 Thus  we  may  extrapolate  from  the  general  theory  of  human  development  and  discovery sketched in Ep.  Ep. Hdt. 75 and there applied to the example of language ( ibid. 75-6; cf. Lucr. 
v.1028-90). 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
e p i c u r e a n i s m   o n   s e c u r i t y 753
greatly feared either; (c) the pattern of scattered settlements which preceded the formation of communities is so distant in time as to recede from the memory. The consequence is a slackening of the commitment to the mutual interests of the community and in particular greater readiness to kill other members of it, so weakening its defensive capacity. 
 Finally, the intelligentsia, perceiving the dangers of this situation, make a rational appraisal of the advantages of community as represented in section (2), reinforcing and sharpening through reasoning a natural impulse dulled  by  the  causes  listed  above.  They  succeed  in  getting  most  other members of the community to require a keener sense of these advantages, even though immediate fear of external attack is no less diminished. But the focus of Hermarchus' account is their invention of law, and with it a system of punishment for those unable to perceive the mutual benefits of community  or  unwilling  to  accept  the  constraints  on  behaviour  which such a perception dictates. What is achieved by the introduction of laws, and above all by the law against homicide, is a formalized substitute for perception of mutual advantage and consequential self-restraint. Fear of the  penalties  attached  to  non-compliance  likewise  represents  an e√cacious alternative to the fear of the loss of common advantage which would be the outcome of rational appraisal. For Hermarchus the first leg-islators are evidently cultural heroes comparable with Epicurus himself, since law and its observance constitute a system of social security analogous to the prophylactic against fear of death and the gods provided by Epicurus' philosophy for the individual. 
Hermarchus says nothing about justice in the passage we have been discussing. From the  Key Doctrines  31-8 it becomes clear that Epicurus himself envisaged an intimate relation between law and justice. For justice is focused  on  mutual  advantage,  particularly  that  to  be  gained  from  an agreement  to  refrain  from  harm  to  others  in  the  community  provided they in their turn refrain from harming oneself:
Nature's justice is a token37 of advantage relating to not harming one another and not being harmed. ( KD  31)
The predicate  just  appears to be applied primarily to laws, conceived as devised for mutual advantage. A law which achieves this purpose 'has the 37 The Greek expression translated as 'token' is συ!µβολον. It is sometimes taken to be equivalent to συνθη!κη ( KD  32 and 33), and translated 'pledge' etc. accordingly. But it is just  conduct  and the associated personal virtue of justice (δικαιοσυ!νη) which consists in or depends upon abiding by an agreement. Epicurus here means that when we call some outcome or arrangement 'just'
(he uses the adjective δι!καιον) we simply have in mind the advantage that is secured when people refrain from mutual harm (cf. e.g.  KD  36). 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
754
s o c i a l   a n d   p o l i t i c a l   t h o u g h t
nature of the just' ( KD  38) and 'fits the preconception' of the just ( KD  38). 
It may achieve it at one time or place without doing so at others. Where and when it does not the law ceases to count as just. 
The reference just made to agreement indicates a contractual basis to both justice (conceived now as a characteristic of persons) and law. A little later in the extract from Hermarchus preserved by Porphyry we learn that it is impossible to make contracts with other animals because they lack the rationality requisite for association of law: even if the  invention  of law is the  work  of  intellectuals,  its  acceptance  and  observance  depend  on  the mutual  agreement  of  those  who  accept  and  observe  it.  And  that  agreement is what justice or fair conduct ( dikaiosune-), as Epicurus explicates it, consists in:
Justice was never anything  per se, but something arising in people's joint livelihood with one another, in whatever places and whenever there is a contract about not harming or being harmed. ( KD  33)
Epicurus  strikes  a  palpably  deflationary  tone  in  his  maxims  on  justice. 
Not merely is their focus mutual advantage. Justice is presented as nothing but a function of advantage. The implication is that philosophers like Plato who discuss justice as though it were an eternally valid independent ideal are pursuing a phantom. Epicurus' remarks about injustice have the same flavour:
Injustice is not  per se  bad, but in the fear that arises from the suspicion that one will not escape the attention of those who have been given the authority to punish such things. ( KD  34)
No one who secretly infringes any of the terms of a contract people have made with one another relating to not harming and not being harmed can have the assurance that he will escape detection, even if he does so thousands  and  thousands  of  times.  Right  up  to  his  death  it  is  unclear whether he will in fact escape. ( KD  35)
The free rider's problem is not infringement of an absolute standard nor even  the  likelihood  of  punishment,  but  the  same  a◊liction  which Epicureanism  constantly  addresses:  fear  ( KD  34),  lack  of  assurance  ( KD
35), disturbance of mind ( KD  17). 
*
How close is Epicurus' conception of a contract not to harm others, provided  they  do  not  harm  oneself,  to  the  sort  of  sophistic  theory  of Hobbeist  character  developed  in  Glaucon's  speech  in  Plato   Rep. 
358e-360e? It is sometimes represented that whereas Glaucon's theory Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
e p i c u r e a n i s m   o n   s e c u r i t y 755
makes  man  naturally  aggressive,  accepting  the  contract   faute  de  mieux, Epicureanism  makes  him  naturally  oriented  towards  security,  and  so welcoming the contract as a means to his true goal. The wise man will certainly so orient himself (Usener 530):
The laws exist for the sake of the wise, not that they may not do wrong, but that they may not su◊er it. 
But others will not, whether from a desire to make a pre-emptive strike or out of false conceptions of the good, as is indicated e.g. by Colotes' reference to the bestial life men would be reduced to if law and government were abolished (Plu.  Col.  1124d, quoted above).38
Membership  of  a  law-governed  community  provides  protection against some basic threats to life and happiness. Epicurus suggests two further  social  strategies  designed  to  reinforce  the  consequent  sense  of confidence. The first is indicated in  KD  14:
While security from men comes about to some degree by virtue of the power  of  expulsion,  and  through  easy  attainment  [of  necessities],  the purest form of security comes about from tranquillity and withdrawal from the many.39
In the first part of this maxim Epicurus seems to refer to two of the fundamental features of communities identified by Hermarchus: they exist for defence  and  for  'the  sharing  of  necessities'.  The  latter  part  introduces the famous  Epicurean  injunction  to  'live  unknown'  (Plu.  An  Recte 1128a-1129b)  and  take  no  part  in  political  life,  as  a  dangerous  business founded on a false view of how security is to be attained. This theme is frequently heard in the surviving evidence, as at  KD  7:
Some have wanted to become famous and respected, thinking that this way they would achieve security from men. If, then, the life of such persons is secure, they attain nature's good. But if it is not secure, they do not possess what - in line with what is natural - they desired in the first place.40
The second policy recommended by Epicurus complements the first. A private life, avoiding public notice, is not to be a life of solitude. We need 38 Further discussion e.g. by Long and Sedley 1987, vol. i, 134-5, Mitsis 1988a, 79-97  contra  e.g. 
Denyer 1983. For other questions relating to the justice of the wise man see Vander Waerdt 1987, Annas 1993a, 293-302. 
39 Reading with Arrighetti δυνα!µει τε ε0ξοριστικ&4 και' ευ0πορι!' ει0λικρινεστα!τη: text problematic. 
40 There are a number of texts where Epicureans allow or appear to allow participation in politics in various circumstances: e.g. Plu.  Tranq. An. 465f, Cic.  Rep. i.10, Sen.  De Otio  3.2, D.L. x.121. A good brief discussion in Fowler 1989, 126-30. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
756
s o c i a l   a n d   p o l i t i c a l   t h o u g h t
friends:  for  the  benefits  friends  perform,  but  much  more  for  'the  assurance of their help' ( Sent. Vat.  34). Whereas life would otherwise be 'full of dangers and fear', the formation of friendship 'strengthens the mind' (Cic. 
 Fin. i.66). Without friendship we are unable 'to hold on to a joy in life which is steady and lasting' ( Fin. i.67). But although the prospect of security is what makes it rational to acquire friends, friendship would not be friendship  unless  we  loved  our  friends  as  much  as  we  love  ourselves ( Fin. i.67-8):  which  may  mean  taking  risks  ( Sent.  Vat.  28)  and  su◊ering pain  (Plu.  Col.  1111b)  and  even  dying  (D.L.  x.121)  on  their  behalf. 
Utilitarianism requires us to be non-utilitarian.41 The  Kuriai Doxai  ends with  a  remark  which  is  generally  taken  to  sum  up  Epicurus'  view  of friendship - and which will serve as a summary of his social philosophy: As many as had the power of acquiring being very confident from neighbours, these also lived in this way most pleasurably with each other [sc. 
being confident from each other, i.e. in relation to each other], having the firmest of pledges; and after having the fullest sense of identity with each  other,  they  did  not  grieve  over  someone's  untimely  death  as  if  it called for commiseration. ( KD  40)
vi Zeno's  Republic
If Epicurean social and political thought has clear a√nities with the theories  of  the  fifth-century  Sophists,  Stoic  political  philosophy  begins  in implicit dialogue with Plato's  Republic, as will emerge from consideration of the longest single passage concerned with Zeno's  Republic  which survives.42 The text in question is not a straightforward piece of doxography, but an account of those  elements in  the work to which a sceptic called Cassius objected:
But there are some, including Cassius the Sceptic and his followers, who attack Zeno on many points. They say first (1), that at the beginning of the  Republic  he proves general education useless; second (2), that he says that all who are not good men are personal and public enemies, slaves, 41 So  interpreted  Epicurus  will  intuitively  have  hit  upon  a  paradoxical  insight  now  associated with rational choice theory: see e.g. Elster 1983 and 1984. If so, his thinking was too sophisticated for his successors, who developed associationist ( Fin.  iii.69) and contractarian ( ibid.70) explanations of why we love our friends for their own sake. For more on the Epicurean theory of friendship see above, pp. 667-9, and Bollack 1969, Mitsis 1988a, ch. 3, Annas 1993a, 236-44; on its practice in Epicurean communities see e.g. Festugière 1985, ch.iii, Frischer 1982, chs. i and ii, Clay 1983b. 
42 On  Stoic  political  thought  see  in  general  Erskine  1990,  Schofield  1991.  Both  have  chapters specifically  devoted  to  Zeno's   Republic,  on  which  see  also  Baldry  1959,  Dawson  1992,  ch.4. 
There is much discussion pertinent to Hellenistic Stoicism in Gri√n 1976. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
z e n o ' s   r e p u b l i c
757
estranged from each other, parents from children, brothers from brothers, kin from kin, when - in the  Republic, once again - he makes the good alone citizens and friends and kin and free (the result is that, on Stoic premisses, parents and children are at enmity: for they are not wise); (3) that  he  lays  down  the  doctrine,  likewise  in  the   Republic,  that  women should be held in common, and (4) (in the 20 0s) that neither temples nor law-courts nor gymnasia should be built in cities; (5) that on coinage he writes as follows, that 'it must not be thought that coinage should be introduced  for  purposes  of  exchange  or  for  travelling  abroad'.  And  he requires (6) that both men and women should wear the same dress and that no part of the body should be hidden away. That the  Republic  is the work of Zeno Chrysippus also says, in his  On Republic. And (7) he has discussed erotic topics at the beginning of the work entitled  The Art of Love but also writes much the same in  Conversations. 
These are the sorts of things one finds in Cassius, but also in Isidorus the Pergamene rhetorician, who adds that the passages criticized among the Stoics were cut out of the books by Athenodorus the Stoic, who was in charge of the library at Pergamum, and that afterwards they were set in opposition, after Athenodorus had been caught and charged. So much on  the  passages  of  Zeno  which  have  been  judged  spurious.43 (D.L. 
vii.32-4)
The very title of Zeno's work proclaims a Platonic pedigree; and all of the specific provisions (1) to (6) of the treatise reported here correspond to something in Plato's  Republic. This is obvious in the case of numbers (3) and (5). (4) reminds us of how Plato predicts that there will be no litiga-tion among the guardians (464de; cf. Ar.  Ec. 655 ◊.), and other evidence (Phld.  On the Stoics,  PHerc. 155 and 339, col. 19.17-22) indicates that the coyly phrased rule in (6) about parts of the body was connected with gymnastic festivals at which both sexes performed naked. 
(1) and (2) are the items of greatest interest. Education and the redefinition  of  kinship  and  family  relations  are  central  Platonic  preoccupations.  Zeno's  position  on  both  is  more  radical  than  Plato's  and presumably for similar reasons in each case. Plato's  Republic  transforms the family by making it coextensive with the community of guardians, and o◊ers this as the recipe for harmony in the city. Zeno likewise recognizes no family but the community as a whole, but for him this provision merely removes an obstacle to harmony. The key to friendship and true kinship  is  moral  virtue  and  its  precondition  wisdom:  only  the  morally virtuous are capable of proper social relationships. Of course, Plato had 43 On problems of text and translation see Schofield 1991, 3-8. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
758
s o c i a l   a n d   p o l i t i c a l   t h o u g h t
posited virtue and in particular wisdom among his guardians, and certainly in his claims about their social cohesion assumes that their moral and  intellectual  education  has  been  e√cacious  (cf.  416bc).  So  virtue  as well as proper institutions figures indispensably in his account also. The di◊erence  in  emphasis,  however,  is  unmistakable.  Plato  makes  a  heavy strategic investment in social stratification in the city as a whole and a regulated communism for the guardians in order to achieve his objective of concord. Zeno relies much more on the moral perfection of the individual. This di◊erence is presumably reflected also in their provisions on education. Plato advocates a thorough overhaul of the ordinary education system, with censorship of poetry, reforms of music and gymnastics, and the introduction of higher as well as elementary mathematics. Zeno thinks that the only education we need is an education for moral simplicity, and no doubt rejects studies such as music and geometry as the Cynics did (D.L. vi.104). 
Comparison  of  Zeno's  proposals  with  Plato's  suggests  the  message: think less about institutions and structures, whether of society or of education; think more about moral virtue and its acquisition. When we consider  texts  other  than  the  passage  on  Cassius  the  Sceptic,  it  becomes apparent that this detectable shift of focus is more than that: a repudia-tion of the key mechanism of Plato's communism in favour of Cynicism. 
The texts I refer to are those dealing with sexual relations, which seems to have been a theme given central prominence by Zeno - who in so doing only  follows  the  tradition  of  communist  theorizing  from  Herodotus'
account  of  the  Agathyrsoi  through  Aristophanes  and  Plato  down  to Diogenes of Sinope. Indeed, such is the preoccupation of the communist tradition  with  sexual  relations  that  no  writer  of  a  communist   Republic could avoid having his proposals about them read as an advertisement of his entire manifesto and of the direction his thought in general would be taking.  The  evidence  suggests  that  Zeno  for  his  part  met  his readers'
expectations by making proposals on love and sex the cornerstone of his theory.44 And his principal doctrine was in stark contradiction to Plato's social regimentation: there should be no rules governing sexual relations
- mate with any woman at all (D.L. vii.131), as the Cynics advise (D.L. 
vi.72). In other works he went further: do not avoid incest; have sex with any teenager you like, male or female, whether you have an established attachment to the person or not (S.E.  M  xi.190,  PH  iii.245). This is pure Cynicism. 
44 See further Schofield 1991, ch.2. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
z e n o ' s   r e p u b l i c
759
Zeno had begun his philosophical career at the feet of the Cynic Crates. 
And it is clear that his  Republic  was perceived by many of its early readers, Stoics included, as Cynic in its teaching. Diogenes Laertius records the witticism that the book was written on the dog's tail. Chrysippus in his On  Republic -  evidently  written  as  a  defence  or  rea√rmation  of  Zeno's Republic - seems to have emphasized its Cynic features: for example, permissibility  of  incest,  uselessness  of  weapons  (a  doctrine  not  explicitly attested for Zeno, but attributed by Chrysippus himself to the  Republic  of Diogenes of Sinope, the original Cynic). And the polemic  On the Stoics  by Cicero's Epicurean contemporary Philodemus takes as its focus attempts by other Stoics (some of them at least of his own time) to explain away the indecencies  or  apparent  indecencies  of  Zeno's  treatise:  e.g.  that  it  was flawed juvenile work, not the real Zeno; that it was real Zeno all right, but Stoics want to be thought of as Socratics, not Zenonians; that the teaching of the  Republic  is in fact impeccable - although its line on sexual intercourse  needs  explanation;  and  (for  our  purposes  most  pertinently)  that Diogenes  never  really  wrote  the   Republic  attributed  to   him -  and  hence (presumably) that he never held any doctrines for Zeno to borrow.45
Just as the Cynic assault on convention complements an ideal of natural self-su√ciency, which other texts tell us is to be achieved by laborious e◊ort ( ponos) as exemplified by the Cynic hero Heracles (D.L. vi.2, 11,  104-5),  so  Zeno's  rejection  of  rules  governing  sexual  intercourse seems  to  have  been  complemented  by  a  conviction  that  the  only  real good, and the only thing relevant to happiness, is virtue. Sexual taboos can be abandoned because at the end of the day it is quite  indi◊erent  who has  sex  with  whom  -  indi◊erent,  that  is,  to  happiness  (S.E.  PH  i.160, iii.20 0;  Orig.  Cels.  iv.45).  Thus  in  its  abandonment  of  Plato's  trust  in laws  and  institutions  controlling  the  key  matter  of  sexual  relations, Zeno's  recipe  for  the  good  life  has  to  rely  much  more  than  does  even Plato on moral education, i.e. an education which will produce moral virtue. 
Where Zeno appears to have diverged from the Cynics is in the attention which he like Plato gives to the promotion of the political ideals of friendship  and  concord.  This  is  closely  bound  up  with  education  for moral virtue, as the following texts suggest:
45 Dog's  tail:  D.L.  vii.4;  Cynic  features  in  Chrysippus:  D.L.  vii.131,  188,  S.E.  M  xi.192  [⫽ PH
iii.246], Plu.  Stoic. Rep. 1044b-e, Phld.  Stoic.,  PHerc. 155 and 339, col. 15.31-16.1; Philodemus'
polemic: Phld.  Stoic.,  PHerc. 155 and 339, col. 9.2-15.20 (see further Dorandi 1982b). Cynic doxography,  however,  is  often  itself  Stoicized:  Mansfeld  1986  (also  Goulet-Cazé  1982,  1986, Schofield 1991, App. H). General treatments of Cynic 'political' thought: Dawson 1992, ch.3, Moles 1995. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
760
s o c i a l   a n d   p o l i t i c a l   t h o u g h t
The wise man will love those young persons who by their appearance manifest a natural endowment for virtue, as Zeno says in the  Republic  and Chrysippus in the first book of  On Lives  and Apollodorus in his  Ethics. 
(D.L. vii.129)
Pontianus [one of Athenaeus'  dramatis personae] said that Zeno of Citium took love to be a god who brings about friendship and freedom, and again concord, but nothing else. That is why in the  Republic  he said that Love is god, there as a helper in furthering the safety of the city. (Athen. 561c) Love  here  is,  of  course,  not  sex,  although  in  keeping  intimate  personal relationships at the centre of his account Zeno sustains the focus characteristic of the communist tradition in general and of Cynicism in particular. What he has in mind is the sublimated passion of a mature person for the young resulting in concern for their moral wellbeing, to which Plato gives canonical expression in the  Symposium  and the  Phaedrus. Plato was thinking  of  homosexual  attachments  between  males,  and  so  very  likely was Zeno. It is unclear whether he managed to reconcile this element in his  proposals  with  the  principle  of  the  community  of  women  (D.L. 
vii.131) and the thesis that the same virtue belongs to a man and a woman (D.L. vii.175, Phld.  Piet. ,  PHerc. 1428, col. 5.8-11 Henrichs). Zeno's own distinctive contribution is to find in love so conceived the dynamic not just of the moral education of individual citizens but of friendship and concord in the community at large. Presumably his idea is that if the wise man's concern for his beloved's wellbeing is reciprocated and bears moral fruit, the other too will attain wisdom and virtue, and love will be con-summated as friendship (cf. D.L. vii.130). Replicate friendships throughout the society, and you then have the basis for general concord: They leave friendship something found among only the wise. For only among these is concord about the a◊airs of life to be found. Concord is knowledge of common goods. (Stob.  Ecl. ii.108.15-18)
Friendship  and  concord  depend  simply  on  the  concern  for  each  other shared  by  the  good  and  wise.  Virtue  is  what  matters,  not  institutional structures.46
vii Justice,  oikeio
 -sis  and the cosmic city
The main emphases of subsequent Stoic social and political philosophy were rather di◊erent, to judge from the surviving evidence. As we have 46 On the Stoic conception of friendship see Fraisse 1974, 348-73. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
-
j u s t i c e ,   o i k e i o s i s a n d   t h e   c o s m i c   c i t y 761
noted, Chrysippus'  On Republic  reiterated many of Zeno's themes; and his advocacy  elsewhere  of  the  doctrine  of  the  cosmic  city  represented  an influential development of Zeno's basic conception of a community of the good and wise. But he also wrote several treatises on subjects such as law and justice (cf. n. 8 above), and it is his handling of these themes which is ultimately  responsible  for  the  shape  of  the  exposition  of  Stoic  political thought in our main source, Cicero's  de Finibus  iii.62 ◊. The key idea in his (and indeed perhaps already Zeno's) account of the motivation to justice -
the notion of  oikeio-sis - was one he harped upon constantly, according to Plutarch. It is therefore no surprise that the doxographical account of the Stoics' political and social theory which Cicero is presumably exploiting in the passage starts with  oikeio-sis.47
Although the word  oikeio-sis  is di√cult to translate adequately, it is not hard to formulate the core thesis of the Stoic theory. They held that man is not motivated solely by self-interest, but has a natural impulse to  identify with  other humans, perceiving them as related to himself, and being concerned for them on that account.  Fin.  iii.62-3 gives some indication of how they argued for this thesis. All social animals - such as ants, bees and storks - exhibit altruistic behaviour. Hence conduct of this kind on the part of humans, who are the most variously and ambitiously sociable of all animals, must be natural to them. And so, for example, 'it is in agreement with human nature that men should want to undertake and carry out public duties of state, and in order to live in accordance with nature, take a wife and want children by her' (iii.68). Marriage and the production of children  are  seen  as  social  or  political  obligations:  that  is,  obligations incumbent on men as naturally social, and therefore willingly undertaken by them. 
This conception of altruism as inherent in human nature is what underlies a great deal of Stoic discussion of the conduct of the wise person, and especially their conviction that he will play a role - or rather one or more of a variety of roles - on the public stage (although the theatrical metaphor itself, pervasive in Epictetus, may not antedate Panaetius). It must su√ce  to  quote  from  Arius  Didymus'  doxographical  summary  of  Stoic ethics:
Following on these points is the thesis that the wise man takes part in politics, and especially so in the sorts of political societies [or, constitutions]
which show some progress towards being perfect political societies; also 47 On  oikeio-sis  in general see above pp. 677-82. Its social form is discussed in the classic study of Pembroke 1971, and e.g. by Blundell 1990, Engberg-Pedersen 1990, Striker 1991, 35-61, Annas 1993a, 262-76, Schofield 1995. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
762
s o c i a l   a n d   p o l i t i c a l   t h o u g h t
the theses that he legislates and that he educates people, and again that it is appropriate for the morally good to compose writings which can benefit  those  who  encounter  the  writings;  also  the  thesis  that  he  descends both  to  marriage  and  to  having  children,  both  for  himself  and  for  his country, and endures struggles and death for it, if it is a moderate regime. 
(Stob.  Ecl. ii.94.8-20)
Behind  the  compressed  formulations  of  this  report  lies  ultimately Chrysippus'  large  treatise   On  Lives.  We  know  that  this  work  identified three  preferred  lives  for  the  rational  person:  kingship,  or  living  (and indeed going on campaign) with a king, no doubt as his adviser; the political life, taken again as including marriage and procreation; and the life devoted to knowledge. Our sources, mostly unfriendly to Stoicism, tell us rather  more  about  a  secondary  issue:  Chrysippus  evidently  went  on  to argue  that  there  were  accordingly  three  preferred  modes  of  making money  or  providing  for  oneself  -  namely  from  kingship  or  association with a king; from politics and one's friends in high places; and from teaching (which generated the puzzle of whether Chrysippus was recommend-ing becoming a Sophist or not).48
We may assume that in  On Lives  Chrysippus was tackling the old question: is the active or the quiet life to be preferred? We know that in the fourth  book  he  characterized  the  quiet  or  leisured  life  disparagingly  as really  just  a  life  devoted  to  pleasure,  and  gave  some  of  its  advocates (doubtless principally Epicureans) the credit of acknowledging this, but gave others (very likely the Peripatetics) a black mark for failing to do so (Plu.  Stoic. Rep.  1033c-e). The implication is that the true pursuit of  philos-
 ophy  is to be located elsewhere, i.e. as one form of the active life. Indeed it is as if Chrysippus is saying: 'Choose the active life, but don't conceive it in monolithic terms. In particular don't contrast the active with the contemplative life, since the wise man acts out his social nature and contributes to the public advantage by his philosophical and scientific writing and teaching.'49
What  in  men  and  other  animals   explains  natural  altruism?  Its  causal origin  lies  in  parental  identification  with  o◊spring.  This  phenomenon might have been regarded as self-evidently natural, but the Stoics made an argument from probability: nature would not have equipped animals for 48 Large  treatise   On  Lives:  Plu.  Stoic.  Rep.  1043a.  Our  sources:  Plu.  Stoic.  Rep.  1043b-e,  D.L. 
vii.188-9, Stob. ii.109.10-110.8. For discussion see Schofield 1991, 18-20, 119-27. 
49 Cf. D.L. vii.130: of the three lives - contemplative, practical, rational - the third is to be chosen, as  naturally  embracing  both  contemplation  and  action.  For  further  discussion  on  the  whole theme in Stoicism down to Seneca see Gri√n 1976, ch. 10. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
-
j u s t i c e ,   o i k e i o s i s a n d   t h e   c o s m i c   c i t y 763
reproduction, but then left them without concern for the wellbeing and nurture of their o◊spring (iii.62). The Stoics must then be assuming that if this one form of altruism is natural to us, there is reason to suppose that other forms of it, too, are expressions of human nature. 
If humans are naturally altruistic, why do not more of us promote each other's interests more often and more consistently than we actually do? 
The Stoics found no di√culty in attributing this failure to the corruption of human nature by the social environment (D.L. vii.89). So their conception of human nature has a strongly normative cast; and their accounts of the  impulse  to  identify  with  others  are  expressed  in  terms  of  what  we should  do. Nonetheless the appeal to nature is intended as an explanation of the most salient  fact  about humans, that they are social animals -  poli-
 tika zo-ia,  as  the  Stoics  put  it  (Marc.  Inst.  i.11.25,  Stob.  ii.59.6,  75.7-8), exploiting  the  Aristotelian  expression  -  and  as  such  given  to  altruistic behaviour. 
 Fin. iii.62-3 does not make it clear exactly how the particular form of sociability constituted by  oikeio-sis, namely a natural disposition to identify with others and their interests, is to be conceived as the origin of  justice (cf. Plu.  Stoic. Rep.  1038b; Porph.  Abst.  iii.19). In other texts reflecting Hellenistic Stoicism the connection appears to be worked out di◊erently in  di◊erent  places.  This  suggests  that  certainly  Zeno  and  perhaps Chrysippus too had been somewhat inexplicit on the issue. Stoics of the second  century  bc seem  to  have  tried  to  tell  a  more  determinate  story. 
Thus it was probably Antipater who interpreted the principle that no man ought to commit injustice against any other as the idea that no one should commit violence against another, and who derived this idea from natural oikeio-sis: if nature tells every man that he ought to treat the interests of any other man, just because he is a man, as not alien from himself, that precludes  violating  those  interests  ( O◊.  iii.28;  cf.  Fin.  iii.63,  Leg.  i.33). 
Panaetius apparently took a rather di◊erent tack. For him the virtue associated with  oikeio-sis  and natural sociability is focused on the preservation of  human  association  and  bonding  as  such,  and  justice  conceived  as
'assigning to each his own due' (as in the o√cial Stoic definition) or as refraining from harming anyone is treated simply as a particular application  of the more fundamental and more general obligation to maintain human society ( O◊. i.11-20).50
One particularly important stimulus inducing Stoics of this period to work out the theory of justice with some care was evidently supplied by 50 On Antipater and Panaetius see further Striker 1991, 35-50, 58-9, Schofield 1995, 195-205. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
764
s o c i a l   a n d   p o l i t i c a l   t h o u g h t
the criticisms of the Academic Carneades, here as in other areas of philosophy. Justice was the topic on which Carneades gave his famous pair of contradictory lectures on the occasion of the Athenian embassy to Rome in  155  bc;  and  no  doubt  he  deployed  similar  lines  of  thought  on  many occasions. A key di√culty he raised occurs in di◊erent guises in di◊erent texts. Cicero (as reported in Lact.  Inst.  v.16) presents it as an attempt to drive a wedge between wisdom and justice. There was an explicit political point:51 Rome won her empire by pursuing her advantage regardless of the injustice involved. And there were some memorable examples: If a good man has a runaway slave or a house that is insanitary and disease-ridden, and if on this account he announces that he is selling: should he confess that the slave he is selling is a runaway or the house disease-ridden, or should he conceal this from the buyer? If he confesses, he is certainly  a  good  man,  because  he  is  not  practising  deceit;  but  he  will nonetheless be judged a fool, because he will sell either at a low price or not at all. If he conceals, he will certainly be wise, because he looks after his interests; but the same person will be wicked, because he is practising deceit. 
Other examples also are introduced to make the same point, notably the instance of the shipwrecked traveller in the water who gets the opportunity to dislodge someone else from a plank that floats past: if he pushes him  o◊,  he  behaves  unjustly  (committing  an  act  of  violence  against another); if he does not, he is a fool (sparing another's life at the expense of his own). The anonymous commentary on the  Theaetetus (col. 5.18-6.31) alludes to this same example in an argument ascribed to 'the Academics'. 
Here it figures as one limb of a dilemma for  oikeio-sis  theory. Either  oikeio-sis relative to others is of the same intensity as  oikeio-sis  to oneself: in which case justice is preserved, but at the cost of psychological implausibility. Or it  is  weaker:  in  which  case  the  shipwreck  example  supplies  an  instance where, if  oikeio-sis  is the mainspring of a person's behaviour, identification with self will conflict with identification with others, and win out over it. 
On this alternative, all that identifying with others can generate is  philanthro-pia, kindly feeling towards other people, nothing as strong as a source of real commitments, which is what justice is.52
The Stoics disagreed among themselves about how best to meet such 51 Perhaps  to  be  related  to  the  object  of  the  Athenian  embassy,  which  was  to  overturn  a  fine imposed for aggression against Oropus. 
52 A text and translation of the relevant passage from the  Theaetetus  commentary is conveniently available in Long and Sedley 1987, vol. i, 350, ii.348-9. See also Bastianini and Sedley 1995, 227-562. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
-
j u s t i c e ,   o i k e i o s i s a n d   t h e   c o s m i c   c i t y 765
di√culties. Cicero records what he presents as a debate between Diogenes of Babylon and Antipater on the subject ( O◊. iii.51-7). Both apparently aimed to remove the grounds for alleging a conflict between justice and the  pursuit of one's interest. In the case of the sale of goods, Diogenes held that it would not be unjust of the vendor to remain silent about the defects of the house or the slave, and so to pursue self-interest. He argued that it is one thing to conceal, another to be silent. Silence would be tantamount to concealment only if it was the vendor's responsibility to ensure that the buyer knew everything it might be in his interest to know. But the buyer is a free agent, and the responsibility is primarily his. Justice conceived  as  looking  after  another's  interest  seems  to  reduce  here  to refraining from deliberately harming his interest. To Antipater's way of thinking, justice imposed greater demands than this, and in the example given would require the seller to confess. But he seems to have suggested that properly understood the common interest coincides with one's own advantage or should be made to coincide with it. How he argued for the suggestion is not disclosed. It would presumably imply that for a quite di◊erent reason there is no real conflict between justice and self-interest. 
The problem of how to deal with such a conflict or apparent conflict continued to exercise the school. Panaetius made it the subject of the third and  final  division  of  discussion  of  appropriate  action,  but  notoriously never wrote the treatise he promised about it (Cic.  O◊. i.9, iii.7). Among his pupils, Posidonius claimed it was the most important topic in all philosophy,  but  had  little  to  say  about  it  ( O◊.  iii.8);  on  the  other  hand Hecaton's  On Appropriate Actions  tackled all the puzzle cases in its sixth book, and appears to have defended a subtle form of utilitarianism ( O◊. 
iii.89-90). 
One issue which these debates threw up was the legitimacy of private property. Cicero makes Diogenes suggest that the logical consequence of Antipater's assimilation of common and individual interest is that there is nothing which is properly speaking a person's own due (this would mean that justice as conceived in the standard Stoic definition is an empty concept, although Cicero does not point this out). Should we therefore not buy and sell, but simply give things away ( O◊. iii.53)?  Fin. iii.68 seems to o◊er a response to this line of attack. It exploits an analogy. The theatre is in  common  ownership,  but  the  seat  a  person  occupies  is  quite  properly called his seat. So the fact that we inhabit a common city or universe does not preclude its being just that each of us have his own.  O◊. i.21, presumably due to Panaetius, defends the same doctrine in di◊erent terms. Things are not private but common by nature. But something may legitimately Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
766
s o c i a l   a n d   p o l i t i c a l   t h o u g h t
become someone's own by virtue of long occupation, force of conquest, a contract, a lottery, etc.; and anyone else trying to appropriate it will be violating 'the justice of human association'.53
When the Stoics talked of justice as something natural, it was not only human nature that they had in mind. Plutarch quotes Chrysippus as writing in his  On the Gods:
It is not possible to discover any other source of justice nor any other origin than from Zeus and from universal nature. For from here everything of this sort must have its source, if we are going to have anything to say about good and evil. (Plu.  Stoic. Rep.  1035c)
This thesis underpins Chrysippus' further claim (D.L. vii.128) that justice exists by nature not by posit; that is, that what counts as just and unjust is something to which there is an objectively correct answer irrespective of the  positive  law  of  particular  states  or  communities.  The  mediating  idea which connects the objectivity of justice (and its naturalness in that sense) with  universal  nature  is   reason.  Chrysippus  holds  that  the  just  and  the unjust are determined by law, and law he understands not as any human convention, but as right reason applied to the practical end of moral injunction and prohibition (e.g. Plu.  Stoic Rep.  1037f, Stob. ii.96.10-12, 102.4-6). 
Right reason in an individual is in harmony with universal nature, insofar as universal nature simply  is  reason at work, prescribing the proper order of the universe (D.L. vii.88). It is therefore only to be expected that our reason should be directive: divine reason is directive; and we can only have been equipped with reason so that it may direct us. It is equally to be expected that when our reason has acquired proper understanding we will be in a position to know what under its direction we should and should not do. 
This is presumably one ground for calling it 'law': the role it plays in our lives is an internalized version of the function which in any particular state is usually performed by the external positive law. 
Cicero sets out the Stoic derivation of justice from law in a passage near the beginning of  De legibus:
It has been the view, correct or not, of some very learned men, that we should begin with law [sc. in seeking the principles of justice] - given 53 For Carneades' puzzles about justice and the Stoic responses see Pohlenz 1934, Annas 1989a, Striker 1991, 44-61. On property: Erskine 1990, ch. 5. These disputes have sometimes been seen  as  bearing  on  or  even  influenced  by  contemporaneous  issues  in  Roman  public  life  and intellectual debate. Such possibilities are the subject of a huge bibliography: see e.g. Behrends 1977,  Erskine  1990,  chs.  7  and  8  (sanguine),  Strasburger  1965  and  1966,  Jocelyn  1976/7, Rawson 1985, ch. 4 (sceptical). Atkins 1990 casts doubt on whether we have a su√cient basis to reconstruct the ideas of Panaetius, often taken to be the key figure in developing Stoicism in a more practical mode. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
-
j u s t i c e ,   o i k e i o s i s a n d   t h e   c o s m i c   c i t y 767
only  that  law  is,  as  they  define  it,  (1)  the  highest  reason  implanted  in nature, which commands what ought to be done and forbids the opposite. This same reason, when it is firmly fixed and fully developed in the human mind, is law. And so they think that law is (2) practical wisdom, which has precisely that function, to command right conduct and prohibit wrongdoing. They reckon that the Greek word for it comes from (3)  granting  to  each  his  own  [ nomos ⫽law;  nemo-⫽grant,  distribute];  I believe our word comes from choosing [ lex ⫽law;  lego⫽choose]. As they make fairness the job of the law, we make choice its function - though each is a special property of the law. If what they say is right, as I think it mostly is, then the origin of justice is to be found in law. For it is (1) a natural power, (2) the mind and reason of the man of practical wisdom, (3) the standard of justice and injustice. (Cic.  Leg. i.18-19) Assume (1) that law is prescriptive reason in nature. Then in a man (2) it will be  practical wisdom (since prescription is the function of practical wisdom). But from (2) we can infer that (3) it will be the standard of justice  and  injustice,  since  that  standard  is  fairness,  as   oikeio-sis  leads  us  to appreciate, and fairness is the hallmark of the judgements of practical wisdom. In this sense the principle of justice is derived from law.54
 Oikeio-sis  theory  shows  how  the  impulse  to  justice  is  a  function  of  a general  human  and  indeed  animal  motivation.  But  appeal  to  universal nature supplies what is in the end more fundamental: explanation of the role of moral imperatives in the entire scheme of things. This explanation belongs  to  the  Stoic  theory  of  providence,  according  to  which  the  universe  is  designed  as  the  common  home  and  city  of  gods  and  men,  who form a just community as the only beings partaking in reason, which is natural law (cf. Cic.  ND  ii.154; Arius Didymus [ SVF  ii 528]). Some of the crucial moves are set out in a syllogistic chain of reasoning: Since nothing is better than reason, and this exists in both man and god, man's first association with god is in reason. But those who have reason in common also have right reason in common. Since that is law, we men must also be reckoned to be associated with the gods in law. But further, those who have law in common have justice in common. But those who have these things in common must be held to belong to the same state. 
(Cic.  Leg. i.23)
Here we re-establish contact with Zeno's city of the virtuous and wise. 
If Zeno assumes mutual knowledge and physical proximity among his 54 The idea of natural law is sometimes taken to imply a code of moral rules (e.g. Striker 1987). But although  kathe-konta  seem to form a system, the fact that they do is not connected in the sources with natural law: whose range of connotations is as indicated above. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
768
s o c i a l   a n d   p o l i t i c a l   t h o u g h t
citizens, the assumption is now tacitly dropped, as is his preoccupation with  love  and  sex.  Otherwise  there  is  a  striking  resemblance  with  the community specified in Cicero's text. The cosmic city, too, as the reference to  right  reason indicates, is a community whose only criterion of membership  is  virtue  and  wisdom.  It  is  indeed  the   only  true  city.  The Stoics  define  a  city  as  a  morally  admirable  group  or  organization  of humans which is administered by law (Clem.  Strom.  iv.26; D. Chr.  Or. 
36.20). But the only group of persons that is governed by law properly understood,  i.e.  interpreted  not  as  positive  law  but  as  right  reason  at work, are those who consistently heed right reason, i.e. the virtuous and wise. Nor is Zeno's conception of concord and friendship as the bonds uniting his city forgotten. As Plutarch puts it:
If a single sage anywhere at all extends his finger prudently, all the sages throughout the inhabited world are benefited. This is the job they assign to friendship; this is how, by the beneficial acts common to the sages, the virtues are brought to fulfilment.55 (Plu.  Comm. Not.  1086f ) It  has  sometimes  been  supposed  that  what  Stoicism  advocated  was  a world state: a political system in which the unity of all mankind would find expression. In a notorious passage ( Alex. Virt. 329a-f ) Plutarch connected  the  ideas  of  Zeno's   Republic  with  the  exploits  of  Alexander  the Great. Alexander's success in bringing under his own supreme authority Greeks  and  barbarians  scattered  over  a  vast  extent  of  territory,  and  his attempts  to  obliterate  cultural  di◊erences  between  them,  were  represented as Stoic philosophy put into practice. The evidence adduced in this and  the  previous  sub-section  will  have  indicated  why  Plutarch's  story must be rejected as an account of Stoicism, quite apart from doubts historians  may  entertain  about  its  reliability  with  regard  to  Alexander.56 As developed by Chrysippus, the ideal city of Zeno's  Republic  is indeed in a sense a universal community, whose citizens are (as Diogenes the Cynic claimed of himself: D.L. vi.63)  kosmopolitai. However, it is universal not in that it includes all mankind, but because it is made up of gods and sages wherever they may be: not a wider community, but a wholly di◊erent sort of  'community'.  When  Chrysippus  uses  words  like  'city'  and  'law',  he intends a radical transformation of their meaning, robbing them of anything  ordinarily  recognizable  as  political  content.  In  short,  political vocabulary is depoliticized. 
55 On justice, the cosmic city and universal nature see further Long 1983b, Schofield 1991, chs. 3
and 4, Schofield 1995. 
56 For  discussion  of  Alexander  and  the  unity  of  mankind,  see  e.g.  Tarn  1933,  contradicted  by Badian 1958; a good brief study is Baldry 1965, ch. iv. On the Plutarch text see also Schofield 1991, App. A. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
r e t r o s p e c t
769
viii Retrospect
The major ideas about politics and society introduced in this chapter are rich, varied and ingenious. Finley, whose verdict was quoted at the beginning of section i, failed to perceive their intimate connection with theories about the natural world, especially the nature of human psychology, and  the  foundations  of  ethics.  It  is  true  that  even  the  Stoics,  the  most original and fertile thinkers of the period in this field, owe much to philosophical  predecessors  and  to  dialectical  engagement  with  them,  but that is hardly a defect. Neither they nor the Epicureans have anything to say for example, about the comparative merits of democracy and aristocracy. Their preoccupation is rather with the basic rationale of society, and the roles of law, justice and utility within it. That does not mean that they are not really political theorists at all, but merely that as such they resemble Grotius, Hobbes and Locke more than Plato and Aristotle, although of course these concerns are not absent from the  Republic  and the  Politics. 
Epicureanism  undoubtedly  advocates  quietism,  and  out  of  a  fundamental preoccupation with what is the best strategy for individuals to follow  in  pursuit  of  their  own  interests.  But  the  conceptual  framework within  which  the  argument  for  quietism  is  worked  out  was  the  one by now  traditional  in  Greek  political  thought:  Epicurus  is  thinking  of a largely  self-su√cient  community  restricted  in  size;  and  he  and Hermarchus  conceive  it  in  terms  of  the  contractualist  versions  of  how society originates and functions which had been advocated particularly in the  Sophistic  literature  of  the  second  half  of  the  fifth  century  bc.  The Epicurean  analysis  operates  throughout  at  a  high  level  of  abstraction. 
There is no indication whatever that Epicurus and his circle had begun to reflect seriously on new Hellenistic forms of political organization, or on their e◊ects on the powers of city-states and their citizens - any more than had Polybius, who borrows so heavily from Epicureanism. 
If  all  the Hellenistic philosophies had advocated abstention from political  life,  it  might  nonetheless  have  been  plausible  to  postulate  a  new Zeitgeist not yet captured in philosophical formulae, but dictating philosophical positions all the same. In fact the most radical philosophical critique of the city-state - by Diogenes the Cynic - predates the Hellenistic age;  and  although  later  Cynics,  the  dissident  Stoic  Aristo  and  some Cyrenaic  philosophers  are  found  repeating  it  in  one  form  or  another around the beginning of the period,57 and urging men to follow nature and consider themselves only citizens of the world, voices like theirs fall 57 It  is  significant  that  this  is  the  time  when  the  most  Cynicizing  Stoic  writing  on  the   polis -
Zeno's  Republic - was composed. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
770
s o c i a l   a n d   p o l i t i c a l   t h o u g h t
largely silent as time goes on. Indeed the Cynic poet Cercidas (late third century bc) was to become heavily involved in the politics of his own city Megalopolis. As was noted above (pp. 623, 741), Epicurus for his part dissociated himself from Cynicism. The earliest trace of Cynic cosmopolitanism  in  Epicurean  texts  comes  in  a  fragment  of  Diogenes  of  Oenoanda (second century ad).58
For the most part the major philosophical schools appear to have been as  committed  to  endorsing  political  activity  of  a  conventional  kind  as they ever  were.  The  neatest  and  most  celebrated  illustration  of  their recognition of such political responsibilities is supplied by the choice of the  heads  of  the  Academy  (Carneades),  the  Stoa  (Diogenes  of  Babylon) and the Peripatos (Critolaus) to represent the Athenians as their ambassadors on a visit to Rome in 155 bc. So far from exhibiting signs of deracina-tion,  Chrysippus  goes  out  of  his  way  to  emphasize  the  depths  of  the immersion of the wise man in the world immediately about him: whether he opts for the court or politics or teaching, he will be making money; and he will 'practise oratory and engage in politics as though wealth were a real  good,  and  reputation  and  health  too'  (Plu.  Stoic.  Rep.  1034b).  This sounds like a reproof to Plato for promoting too idealistic a conception of political and indeed philosophical activity. Chrysippus' interest in life at court  and  his  assumption  that  conventional  city-state  politics  involves using  the  good  o√ces  of  one's  friends  to  line  one's  pockets  indicate  a response  to  the  changed  political  circumstances  of  Hellenistic  times. 
Otherwise what is most striking about his account of the political life is just how thoroughly traditional it is. 
What was novel in Stoicism was its conception of the ideal community of perfectly rational persons, all subject to the same internalized natural law of reason, and sharing with the gods in the only true city. Chrysippus'
allegiance  to  this  theory  did  not  prevent  him  from  making  the  sage engagé. But in the discussions of the leading Stoics of the early Roman empire - Seneca, Epictetus, Marcus Aurelius - the claims of citizenship of the universe come to dwarf those of the existing societies in which we find ourselves: the cosmic perspective increasingly overshadows the vantage point  of  ordinary  life.  It  is  important  for  understanding  the  political thought of the Hellenistic age that this  is  a later development.59
58 Diog. Oen. fr.30 Smith; the key passage is reproduced by Long and Sedley 1987, ch.22p. 
59 Seneca manhandles the  lex Chrysippi, which says that the wise man will engage in politics unless something impedes him, to mean e◊ectively the same as Epicurus' prohibition on such activity except in emergency: existing states are too corrupt or unwilling to profit from his influence, or his own authority or ability or state of health is inadequate for the task ( De Otio  3; cf.8). 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
Epilogue
m i c h a e l   f r e d e
The schools which dominated the philosophy of the Hellenistic age did not disintegrate or disappear with the end of the Hellenistic era, but for the most part continued to exist well into Imperial times. This certainly is true of the two schools which came into existence only at the beginning of the Hellenistic period, and which in their very origin have a distinctive Hellenistic character, the Stoa and Epicurus' Garden. We can produce a long list of distinguished Stoic philosophers stretching well into the third century ad: a list that includes Seneca, Epictetus, and Marcus Aurelius. 
The Epicureans are less conspicuous in Imperial times, but, again, the list is fairly long, including e.g. Diogenes of Oenoanda in the second century ad. The  generalization  is  also  true  of  the  two  older  schools.  Indeed  the Peripatos,  which  had  lost  some  of  its  prominence  and  influence  in Hellenistic  times,  saw  a  revival  in  the  Empire,  largely  by  returning  to Aristotle, but without entirely shedding the Hellenistic heritage. 
More complicated is the case of Plato's Academy. The debate in philosophy  in  Hellenistic  times  was  crucially  shaped  by  the  fact  that  the Academy under Arcesilaus turned sceptical, and by the dominance of scepticism in the school until the time of Philo of Larissa and Antiochus early in the first century bc, when Platonism re-emerged. So here there was a break of continuity at the end of the Hellenistic era. But it was not a complete break. There continued to be philosophers, like Favorinus of Arelate, who saw themselves as in the tradition of Arcesilaus and Carneades. There were Platonists,  like  Plutarch,  who  did  not  think  that  the  Academic  philosophers from Arcesilaus to Philo had betrayed the tradition of Socrates and Plato: they thought of themselves as continuing a Platonic tradition which involved scepticism. And there was Aenesidemus, originally an Academic philosopher, who revived the radical scepticism of Arcesilaus, not in the school of Plato, but under the banner of Pyrrho. Pyrrhonism survived into the  third  century  ad,  finding  then  an  exponent  in  Sextus  Empiricus.  So there is a good deal of continuity between Hellenistic philosophy and the philosophy of the Empire at least into the third century ad. 
[771]
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
772
e p i l o g u e
Hence  it  would  be  appropriate  to  conclude  a  history  of  Hellenistic philosophy with a brief account of the afterlife of the Hellenistic schools in Imperial times. First, however, it is worth asking whether Hellenistic philosophy is best understood as the philosophy of what ancient historians  call  the  Hellenistic  period,  which  is  defined  by  the  death  of Alexander the Great in 323 bc and the end of Ptolemaic Egypt in 31 bc. 
There is no reason to suppose that philosophy has so little autonomy that its development is tied closely to political history. And closer consideration of the reasons one might, or does, give for thinking that Hellenistic philosophy comes to an end around 30 bc shows them to be inadequate. 
Indeed, pursuing them rather leads one to a date towards the end of the second century bc. 
This is not a matter of tedious and superficial periodization. It is rather a matter of seeing philosophers of the past in their proper historical context. This volume is based on the assumption that Hellenistic philosophy came to an end by about 10 0 bc, and that philosophers like Posidonius, Philo, Antiochus, Aenesidemus, though still belonging to the Hellenistic era, are better considered in the context of later philosophy. This assumption needs some justification. Our justification will involve showing that towards the end of the second century bc something begins which comes to shape the course of philosophy well into Imperial times. At the same time we shall also come to understand better the fate of the Hellenistic schools or movements in post-Hellenistic times. 
What, then, are the reasons one might propose for saying that - on the contrary - it is roughly the year 30 bc which marks a turning point in the history of philosophy? It seems that there are three developments which one  could  associate  with  that  date.  There  is,  first,  the  renascence  of Aristotelianism.  There  is,  second,  the  revival  of  Platonism.  One  might think  that  these  two  movements  soon  came  to  dominate  philosophy, whereas  Stoicism  and  Epicureanism,  though  they  continued  to  exist, became insignificant in relation to Platonism and Aristotelianism, and no longer determined, nor even significantly shaped, the course of the history  of  philosophy.  There  is,  third,  the  demise  of  Academic  scepticism. 
Let us look at each of these developments in turn. 
*
Usually  the  revival  of  Aristotelianism  is  associated  with  Andronicus  of Rhodes. It is often thought that Andronicus produced a scholarly edition of Aristotle's works, making Aristotle's esoteric writings widely available for  the  first  time,  and  so  providing  the  basis  for  the  renascence  of Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
e p i l o g u e
773
Aristotelianism late in the first century bc. There is one plausible line of argument according to which this editorial work must have taken place some time between 40 and 20 bc. If it did, 30 bc would look like a plausible  date  for  the  revival  of  Aristotelianism,  and  thus  for  the  end  of Hellenistic philosophy. 
But  on  the  whole  the  evidence  points  to  a  much  earlier  date  for  the revival  of  Aristotelianism.1 To  begin  with,  the  evidence  concerning Andronicus  is  far  from  clear.  It  allows  for  the  assumption,  actually espoused by some, that Andronicus' editorial work falls into the first half of the first century bc. Nor is it entirely clear what precisely Andronicus did. He evidently did edit some works of Aristotle. Perhaps he even produced  an  edition  of  Aristotelian  writings  from  which,  in  the  course  of time, the Corpus Aristotelicum evolved. But, though he played an important  role  in  the  transmission  of  Aristotle's  school-treatises,  it  is  more than doubtful  that  he  played  the  prominent  role  in  the  revival  of Aristotelianism which has come to be attributed to him. 
One has to doubt this for the following reasons:
(i) Andronicus may have helped the revival by producing better texts and texts which were more easily available, but there is no reason to think that these texts, or at least the bulk of them, had not been available before Andronicus. 
(ii)  Andronicus  was  certainly  not  the  first  to  take  an  interest  in Aristotle's esoteric writings and their text. We see this when we follow the famous story of the fate of 'the books of Aristotle and Theophrastus', which, bequeathed to Neleus, ended up in a cellar in Skepsis.2 Whatever the truth behind this much discussed story may be, this much is clear: the books  were  acquired  by  Apellicon  some  time  around  10 0  bc and  thus came back to Athens. But after the capture of Athens in the Mithridatic war Sulla took them to Rome and they became part of his library. There a distinguished Greek grammarian, Tyrannio, gained access to these manuscripts.  Tyrannio  had  copies  of  at  least  some  of  the  Aristotelian  texts made, and these copies were used by Andronicus. Hence, given a certain interpretation of the story of the cellar of Skepsis, the idea could easily arise that it was only through Andronicus' edition that Aristotle's esoteric writings became available to the learned world. 
But there are some further, uncontroversial, details which suggest that Andronicus' role was much more modest. Apellicon was not just someone of  dubious  wealth  and  political  association  (a  partisan  of  Athenion 1 Cf. Moraux 1973, 45 ◊., esp. 57. 
2 Cf. Strabo xiii.1.54; Plu.  Sulla  26. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
774
e p i l o g u e
who had driven Athens into the war). He also had studied Peripatetic philosophy  (it  was  then  that  he  bought  the  Aristotelian  manuscripts)  and professed to be a Peripatetic. We would be inclined not to take this particularly seriously. But we have to take note of the fact that Apellicon was serious enough in his interest in Aristotle to write at least one book about him.  Hence  it  is  not  surprising  to  hear  that  he  concerned  himself  with editing Aristotelian writings.3 Since we have no reason to suppose that Apellicon was a great scholar, we have to suspect that it was the manuscripts he had bought which prompted him to get involved in editing; and so they obviously contributed something to the knowledge of Aristotle's texts  people  had  at  the  time.  However  this  may  be,  with  Apellicon  we have a Peripatetic who at least as early as the 90s of the first century bc took  an  interest  in  Aristotle's  esoteric  writings  and  concerned  himself with editing them. Similarly it is clear that Tyrannio, perhaps as early as the 60s, also produced editions, however inadequate they may have been. 
Thus it is clear, even from our very limited evidence, that Andronicus had forerunners in the Peripatetic school with an interest in Aristotle's text at least as early as the beginning of the century. 
(iii) There is evidence that by the middle of the first century bc the revival of Aristotelianism based on a study of Aristotle's writings was already well under way. For Aristo's work on Aristotle's  Categories  and his  Analytics would seem to belong to the first half of the century, if it is true that he was born  around  110  bc. It  has  also  been  suggested,  rather  plausibly,  that Aristo's and Cratippus' conversion to Peripateticism is only intelligible if we  assume  that  by  the  middle  of  the  first  century  the  revival  of Aristotelianism had gained enough momentum to attract two of the major students  of  Antiochus.4 If  we  look  at  the  evidence  provided  by  the Aristotelian commentators, the study of Aristotle's writings in the second part of the first century already seems to have been so widespread and so intensive that it is di√cult to believe that it was only Andronicus around 30 bc or even 50 bc who laid the basis for this activity. It rather looks as if Andronicus himself were only part, though perhaps an important part, of a tradition which goes back at least to the beginning of the first century bc. 
In fact, we can trace the sources for the revival of Aristotelianism, if not the  revival  itself,  still  further  back.  One  of  our  most  important  sources concerning the fate of Aristotle's books is a fragment of Posidonius, preserved in Athenaeus (3 a-b). Evidently Posidonius took an interest in the 3 Cf. Aristocles ap. Euseb.  Praep.Ev.  xv.2.13; Strabo xiii.1.54. 
4 See Phld.  Acad. Hist. col. 35.11-16, with Moraux 1973, 57. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
e p i l o g u e
775
matter. And no less evidently he took a strong interest in Aristotle's philosophy,  so  much  so  that  Strabo  in  a  famous  passage  (ii.3.8)  calls  him
'Aristotelizing'. Aristotle was clearly some kind of authority for him, and at  times  he  seems  to  be  willing  to  side  with  Aristotle  against  his  own school.  But  in  this  respect  Posidonius  hardly  di◊ers  from  his  teacher Panaetius. Cicero tells us ( Fin. iv.79) that Panaetius constantly mentioned Aristotle,  and  according  to  the   Index  Stoicorum (Phld.  Stoic.  Hist. (col. 
61.3-7), he was very philaristotelian and quite ready to sacrifice a Stoic dogma in favour of an Aristotelian doctrine. Thus he rejected the Stoic doctrine of conflagration and espoused the Aristotelian assumption that the world is eternal (D.L. vii.142). 
More will be said about this in a moment. For now it may su√ce to note that already in Panaetius' time Aristotle seems to have acquired the status of an authority, whose thought and whose very words must be studied carefully. Moreover, he acquired this status regardless of school-boundaries. In the first century bc, certainly in the second half of the century, we find  that  not  only  Peripatetics  but  also  Stoics  like  Athenodorus  or Platonists like Eudorus comment on details of Aristotle's text.5 Stoics as early as the second and the beginning of the first century bc were willing to  modify  their  position  in  the  light  of  Aristotle's  remarks.  Thus Sosigenes followed Aristotle in the theory of mixture (Alex.  Mixt. 216, 9
◊.). Given that this attitude towards Aristotle was taking shape as early as the end of the second century bc, it is not surprising that Aristotle's own school, the Peripatos, should return to a study of Aristotle's more technical writings, which for the most part must have been available in some form all along. 
All this strongly suggests that the renewal of Aristotelianism was not due to Andronicus' edition of Aristotelian texts, but to a renewed interest in  Aristotle  and  his  writings,  even  the  text  of  his  writings,  which  then also led  to  Andronicus'  work.  It  seems  clear  enough  that  the  rise  of Aristotelianism is not a phenomenon of the second part of the first century bc, but can be traced back to the end of the second century bc. 
Though there was a revival of Aristotelianism, we should be hesitant to believe that it became dominant almost immediately. There is, first of all, a distinction to be made between interest in Aristotle which was very considerable, and espousal of some form of Aristotelianism, which was much rarer. For the first century bc we have significant, but not overwhelming, figures like Aristo, Andronicus of Rhodes, Boethus of Sidon, Xenarchus, 5 For Athenodorus see Simp.  Cat. 62, 25 et passim; for Eudorus cf. Alex.  Metaph. 59, 1 ◊. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
776
e p i l o g u e
and a number of lesser lights. But then there seems to be a lull. We know of rather few Peripatetics in the first century ad, Nicolaus of Damascus, Alexander of Aegae, and Sotion, for instance. We have to wait until the second century to see in Peripateticism a dominant force represented by figures  like  Aspasius,  Adrastus,  Herminus,  Aristocles,  Sosigenes,  and above all Alexander of Aphrodisias. 
*
The  picture  for  Platonism  is  not  all  that  di◊erent.  The  first  person  to claim that he was trying to revive the doctrine of Plato and to restore the school of Plato to its true tradition, betrayed by Arcesilaus and his sceptical successors, was Antiochus. But the picture of Plato's doctrine which he developed is one heavily coloured by Stoicism. Already in antiquity he was  characterized  as  being  more  of  a  Stoic  than  a  member  of  the Academy.6 Nevertheless  he  gained  some  following  for  his  enterprise  of restoring the philosophy of Plato. These new Platonists, however, quickly corrected his Stoicizing conception of Platonism. They did so by emphasizing  the  highly  abstract  and  speculative  elements  in  Plato  which  are associated with Pythagoreanism. That said, it remained for some time a matter  of  debate  among  them  how  far  Stoicism  was  true  to  Platonism, just as it  also remained a  matter of debate whether the tradition of the school from Arcesilaus to Philo had constituted an aberration. But which-ever position one took on these questions, Platonism was set on its path. 
In the second part of the first century bc we encounter its first important exponent  in  Eudorus.  Early  in  the  next  century,  though  the  details  are unclear and controversial, we see Thrasyllus concern himself with Plato's text, perhaps even producing an edition. Soon there will be commentaries on  Platonic  texts,  though  one  may  doubt  whether  the  Anonymous Commentary on the  Theaetetus  is as early as the middle of the first century ad. 
This  admittedly  is  a  very  rough  sketch,  but  it  su√ces  to  show  that around the year 30 bc we witness a development which had started long before,  not  later  than  Antiochus'  break  with  the  sceptical  Academy around 90 bc. But Antiochus' move, with its simultaneous turn to Plato and  the  Old  Academy  (and  indeed  towards  Aristotle  and  the  early Peripatos and, to some extent, the early Stoa), can itself be seen as the natural result of developments which had set in earlier, rather than as a new beginning.  We  will  return  to  Antiochus'  abandonment  of  scepticism 6 S.E.  PH  i.235; cf. Phot.  Bibl. 170 a14-17. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
e p i l o g u e
777
later. His decision to turn to Plato and the Old Academy clearly had something to do with the fact that already in the later part of the second century bc Plato began to command respect across school boundaries, in a way  similar  to  Aristotle,  but  apparently  more  so.  Here  again  it  is Panaetius who is the first philosopher recorded as venerating Plato in a way even the ancients found noteworthy. Cicero can talk in this way of Panaetius  ( Tusc.  i.79):  'Shall  we,  then,  give  credence  to  Panaetius  on  a point  on  which  he  disagrees  with  his  Plato?  He  constantly  calls  him divine, the most wise, the most pious, the flower of philosophers, and yet this one view of his, concerning the immortality of the soul, he does not accept.' Other sources, too, talk of his admiration for Plato and his willingness to abandon Stoic dogma in favour of Platonic doctrine.7 He even took some interest in Plato's text, since we are told in an epigram that he declared the  Phaedo  to be spurious.8
So Antiochus may have been the first student of the later Academy to declare a return to Plato's doctrine, but he certainly was not the first philosopher to insist on a sympathetic consideration of Plato's views. In this he was preceded by Panaetius, and it is striking that Panaetius had similarly advocated a return to the Old Academy, the early Peripatos, and, to some extent, the early Stoa. For Cicero says about Panaetius ( Fin. iv.79):
'He  always  talks  about  Plato,  Aristotle,  Xenocrates,  Theophrastus, Dicaearchus, as one can see from his own writings.' Similarly Panaetius is said to have commended Crantor (Cic.  Acad. ii.135). If we assume that he held the early Stoics in esteem, it seems that he had already singled out the very group of philosophers on whom Antiochus later wanted to base his reconstruction of the true Platonic philosophy. 
A  little  after  Panaetius,  but  before  Antiochus,  Posidonius  is  another philosopher  who  shows  considerable  interest  in,  and  admiration  for, Plato.  As  Galen  puts  it  ( PHP  iv.7):  'He  admires  the  man  and  calls  him divine, and thus he also advocates his doctrines concerning the a◊ections of the soul and those concerning the powers of the soul.' One may doubt whether  Galen  understood  Posidonius'  theory  of  the  a◊ections  of  the soul.  For  there  is  a  systematic  ambiguity  in  our  evidence  concerning Posidonius' position on a number of related questions like the division of the soul and the nature of the good. Depending on one's interpretation he turns out either an orthodox Stoic or else someone who leans in crucial matters towards a position more like Plato's or Aristotle's. But whether we share Galen's interpretation of Posidonius or not, there is no reason to 7 Cic.  Fin. iv.79; Phld.  Stoic. Hist. col. 61.2-6. 
8  AP  ix.358; cf. also Elias  Cat. 133.18-23. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
778
e p i l o g u e
doubt  his  testimony  as  to  Posidonius'  admiration  for  Plato.  Moreover, Posidonius obviously studied Plato's  Timaeus  and discussed certain passages of the text in writing. This does not mean that he wrote a commentary  on  the  dialogue,  but  it  does  suggest  that  he  may  have  treated  of certain questions in the dialogue in a monograph, in the way Plutarch did later.9
Thus, if we follow the suggestion that the end of Hellenistic philosophy  and  the  beginning  of  a  new  period  is  marked  by  the  revival  of Platonism, it too leads us not to a date around 30 bc, but back instead to Antiochus around 90 bc and indeed beyond Antiochus to the end of the second century bc. But though there was a revival of Platonism, it did not immediately  constitute  a  major  force.  In  fact  it  grew  in  importance remarkably slowly. In the first century bc figures like Antiochus, Eudorus, Dercylides, and, at the turn of the century, Thrasyllus were Platonists of one sort or another. But then there is a gap in the first half of the first century ad. It is obvious from Philo of Alexandria's writings, or even from Seneca  (e.g.  Ep.58),  that  there  was  a  good  deal  of  Platonism  in  these decades, yet we cannot associate it with particular names. This is hardly an accident, just as it is hardly an accident that we know of a Peripatetic teacher of Nero, Alexander of Aegae, and a Stoic teacher, Chaeremon, but no Platonist is mentioned.10 When we come to the second part of the first century ad, we finally get major figures such as Ammonius and Plutarch. 
But it is only in the second century ad that there are a good number of well-known Platonists like Gaius, Calvisius Taurus, Albinus, Numenius, Maximus, Atticus, Harpocration. 
So, as in the case of Aristotelianism, it seems that Platonism becomes a major and perhaps even a dominant force only with the second century ad. Hence  the  vague  picture  that  with  the  end  of  the  Hellenistic  era Stoicism and Epicureanism are replaced by Aristotelianism and Platonism as  the  major  forces  in  philosophy  is  certainly  not  correct,  as  far  as  the ascendance of the new movements is concerned. 
*
But  that  picture  is  also  based  on  a  prejudicial  view  at  least  as  far  as Stoicism, if not also Epicureanism, is concerned. It seems that Stoicism remained the dominant movement well into the second century ad. We 9 It is important to note that this new admiration for Plato is by no means restricted to the Stoa. 
Around the turn of the first century bc the medical theorist Asclepiades of Bithynia, in a dispute with the Empiricists, refers to Plato, as if his views had a certain generally accepted weight and authority (cf. Gal.  Med. Exp. p.94 Walzer). 
10 Cf. Suda, s.v. Alexandros Aigaios. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
e p i l o g u e
779
can  produce  a  very  long  list  of  Stoic  philosophers  of  some  significance extending from Posidonius continuously into the second century ad. 
There are some relatively simple facts which tend to make us overlook the  continued  vitality  of  Stoicism  in  post-Hellenistic  times.  To  begin with, no Stoic had the chance to gain the reputation of having crucially contributed  to the revival  of Aristotelianism  like Andronicus, or to the revival of Platonism like Antiochus. If they were Stoics, it had to be Stoic doctrine that they were helping to develop. 
The usual view is that this is precisely what they failed to do in Imperial times. This impression is due to primarily two factors. It is, first, due to the fact that the tradition has only transmitted certain Stoic texts, primarily  Seneca,  Epictetus,  and  Marcus  Aurelius,  which  then  tend  to  be regarded  as  representative  of  Stoic  philosophy  in  this  period.  Second, these very texts show, what we also know from other sources, that Stoics in Imperial times were very much concerned with the practice of philosophy in actual life, emphatically discouraging the thought that the mere study  of  philosophical  books  and  the  intellectual  exercise  of  discussing theoretical puzzles would by themselves produce theoretical insight and practical wisdom. What is more, a considerable e◊ort was made to address the  needs  of  those  who  had  no  technical  philosophical  training,  nor planned to acquire one. It is a mistake, though, to infer from these practical concerns that the Stoics had developed an anti-theoretical bias or had come to think of philosophical theory as unimportant, or that Stoicism had degenerated into some vague popular philosophy. Let us look at these two factors in some more detail. 
Our traditional picture of the Stoa in Imperial times has been shaped by Seneca,  Epictetus,  and  Marcus  Aurelius.  A  tradition  dominated  by Platonism and then Christianity found their writings worth preserving, not because of their contribution to technical philosophy, but for their moral  appeal  across  school  boundaries,  an  appeal  which  they  were designed to achieve, and which they retained even in modern times into this century. To understand this better one has to take into account the following  phenomenon.  For  the  most  part  Platonists  thought  of  themselves  as  recovering  and  reconstructing  the  true  philosophy  which  had been Plato's. The idea was not to identify by the appropriate means what historically  had  been  Plato's  position,  but  to  recover  the  philosophical truth of which Plato had been the last adequate representative. Since what was at issue was true philosophy, rather than historical fact, a Platonist was free in reconstructing it to draw liberally on the advances made by the Stoics. And this all the more so, since the commonly accepted view was Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
780
e p i l o g u e
that  Stoicism  had  developed  out  of  Platonism,  and  originally  owed  its basic motivations and insights to Platonism. So whatever was regarded as true in Stoicism could be appropriated as being part of the common heritage  and  would  not  be  seen  as  specifically  Stoic.  A  paradoxical  consequence was that philosophers like Plotinus might be massively influenced by  Stoicism  and  nevertheless  take  a  hostile  position  towards  Stoicism, identifying as Stoic only those elements which could not be assimilated into their own way of thinking. But this means that once Stoic theory had been assimilated to the extent that it seemed useful, Stoic theoretical treatises could be discarded. There was no need or incentive to preserve them, once  Stoicism  had  died  out  as  a  theoretical  force,  given  that  what  was theoretically  useful  had  been  salvaged.  That  Seneca,  Epictetus,  and Marcus Aurelius escaped this fate is due to a variety of factors, for example Seneca's presumed connection with St Paul and Marcus Aurelius' status as Emperor, but primarily to the fact that their writings were perceived as satisfying a practical moral need. 
It would be a mistake to infer from the preservation of these authors that they are representative of Stoic philosophical literature in Imperial times in general, or that the Stoics had given up on philosophical theory. 
Unfortunately the account of Stoic philosophy in Diogenes Laertius does not  extend  very  far  into  the  Imperial  age  in  the  writers  it  takes  into account, but (for example) Athenodorus, presumably Augustus' teacher (Strabo xiv.5.14), is referred to in the sections on logic, physics, and ethics (D.L.  vii.68,  121,  149);  apparently  the  same  Athenodorus  also  wrote about  Aristotle's   Categories  and  is  repeatedly  referred  to  by  Simplicius, but also by Porphyry.11 Crinis seems to have been a standard author in logic (cf. d.l. vii.62, 68, 71, 76). Cornutus, too, is not just the author of an extant  Theology of the Greeks, but wrote also on Aristotle's  Categories. This work was thought to be important enough to be referred to repeatedly by Porphyry  and  by  Simplicius  in  their  commentaries.  But  he  also  had  an interest in abstract metaphysical and rather technical questions, as shown by the fact that he wrote a treatise  Peri hekto-n ('On things to be had'), of which,  unfortunately,  only  the  title  is  preserved  on  a  papyrus  ( P.  Oxy. 
52.12-13). What it was about, we can still gather from Simplicius' commentary on the  Categories (163.31 ◊.; 209.11 ◊.). Even when we come to the second century ad, the fragmentary remains of Hierocles or the testimonies  concerning  Philopator  show  that  the  Stoa  remained  a  serious theoretical force. It is clear that after Panaetius there was a good deal of 11 Simp.  Cat. 18, 28; 62, 25; 128, 7; 159, 32; 187, 28; Porph.  Cat. 59, 10; 86, 22. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
e p i l o g u e
781
reflection on the notion of a person, of which we get a glimpse in Seneca and in Epictetus. It is clear, as we again see from Epictetus, that discussion concerning freedom, the will, responsibility and fate had moved on in the direction of a notion of a free will, and that the Stoics actively responded to  corresponding  developments  in  Platonism  and  Aristotelianism.  The way Alexander, at the end of the second century ad, discusses the Stoic position in his  On fate, cannot be understood entirely in terms of classical Stoicism,  and  does  not  at  all  give  the  impression  that  this  is  a  topic  to which the Stoics have long stopped contributing. 
The fact that we find some of the theoretical developments in Stoicism dating to this period not particularly congenial to our philosophical interests should not make us overlook the fact that such developments took place. There is a method of allegorical interpretation based on a theory of interpretation  which  Porphyry  traces  back  to  the  Stoics  Cornutus  and Chaeremon in the time of Nero (cf. Euseb.  H. E.  vi.19.3), which would be taken  over  and  developed  by  Platonists  such  as  Porphyry,  and  Church Fathers such as Origen. There is the development of the ideal of an ascetic life which we find, for example, in Seneca's teacher Attalus, or, again, in Chaeremon, and which would later be taken over by Platonists, but may also have had an influence on monasticism. There is an extended interest in magic, demons, and various forms of divination, including astrology, based on the theory of cosmic sympathy, represented, e.g., by Chaeremon, and subsequently in Platonism. 
So Stoicism in the first century ad, far from having degenerated into more or less popular sermonizing, was still a driving force in philosophical theory. In particular it seems that Stoicism remained vital because it addressed problems of ever growing importance within the culture of the early Empire, questions concerning God and divine providence, the gods, the soul, its fate, the ineluctability of its fate. It is these questions which, according to Seneca, are central to Stoic physics. This is not the impression we get when we study Chrysippus. If we ask ourselves how this shift in emphasis came about, it again seems that we are led back to Posidonius and  the  end  of  the  second  century  bc. It  seems  to  have  been  mainly Posidonius who reoriented Stoicism in such a way that it could respond to new interests and needs. 
One might, finally, associate a date of roughly 30 bc or 50 bc with the collapse of Academic scepticism. Now, as already indicated, this issue is more complex, and, indeed, to some extent a matter of controversy. For it does not seem to me that Philo even in his so-called 'Roman books'
altogether abandoned scepticism. He himself at least could see this new Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
782
e p i l o g u e
position as one which had never been challenged in the Academy, and he continued to insist that Arcesilaus and Carneades did not constitute a break in the tradition of the school. Admittedly he now claimed that naturally we do know things, but, it seems, he continued to insist that we may be wrong in any particular case in which we think we know, since there is no such thing as an impression of how things are which guarantees its own truth. In any case there continued to be Academic sceptics like  Favorinus  of  Arelate.  And  not  all  Platonists  adopted  Antiochus'
view that Arcesilaus had fallen away from the tradition of Plato, though many like Numenius did. Plutarch, for one, did not. 
More important for our present concerns is that it was already in the 90s and early 80s of the first century bc that Antiochus abandoned scepticism and Philo moved to the position of the Roman books. But this move was just the last leg of a longer journey which Philo had started out on years before as a student of Clitomachus. That was the time when he came to disagree with Clitomachus on the proper interpretation of Carneades'
position.  He  came  to  take  the  view  that  belief  can  be  justified,  though never to such an extent as to constitute certain knowledge. This position he found di√cult to defend. It caused Antiochus to break with scepticism, and  he  himself  revised  it.  But  all  this  started  after  Carneades'  death towards  the  end  of  the  second  century  bc,  when  Academics  like Clitomachus and Metrodorus began to disagree about the correct understanding of Carneades' position. So again we are led back to the end of the second century bc as the point at which philosophy begins to develop in directions which will then characterize it around 30 bc and beyond. 
*
Hence it seems that attempts to see the end of the Hellenistic era as marking an end of a period in the history of philosophy too do not succeed. 
More interestingly, in each case we are led back to the end of the second century bc, indeed to the same group of philosophers, which prominently includes Panaetius and Posidonius. What is more, if we look at this more closely there seems to emerge at just this point in time a certain pattern which comes to shape the philosophy of the first century bc and, beyond it, the philosophy of the early Empire. Perhaps the first thing to note is that it is two Stoics who show an interest in Plato and Aristotle which, as we saw, even the ancients found remarkable. This is interesting and significant in three regards. 
First,  Hellenistic  philosophy  had  arisen  out  of  a  reaction  to  classical philosophy, with its turn to theory and its tendency to abstract specula-Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
e p i l o g u e
783
tion about postulated entities far removed, if not isolated, from experience. Epicurus went out of his way to deny that he had any teachers or predecessors,  and  adopted  a  position  which  on  various  points  has a√nities with ancient empiricism. He quite definitely did not want to be seen as having any connection with the schools of Plato or Aristotle. Of the  four  writings  which  Diogenes  Laertius  (x.25)  ascribes  to  Epicurus'
successor  Hermarchus  one  is  entitled   Against  Plato  and  another   Against Aristotle.  Indeed,  when  the  Academy  turned  sceptical,  this  is  plausibly seen as a revolt against what was regarded as a betrayal of the Socratic tradition of the school. Socrates had insisted on asking questions about how we should live, and on relentless examination of answers to these questions. The speculations of Speusippus or Xenocrates were hardly in the spirit of Socrates, and - in any case - certainly would not withstand dialectical examination. The Peripatos of Strato and his successors adopted a conspicuously deflationary metaphysics, if it did not abandon this interest altogether. And similarly the Stoics were out to reject Platonic ideas or Aristotelian  forms  or  anything  of  the  kind,  and  to  concern  themselves with the question what could serve as a reliable basis for solid knowledge as opposed to empty speculation. Both Zeno and Chrysippus also wrote against Plato. 
So  when  Panaetius  and  Posidonius  returned  to  Plato  as  a  possible source for the truth, this in a way undermined the original motivation for Hellenistic philosophy, to the extent that it had arisen in reaction to Plato and  Aristotle  and  their  immediate  followers.  And  correspondingly  the picture of the Stoa changed. It was not just Antiochus who could point out, with some justice, that Stoicism had its origin in the Academy. This became a generally accepted view, even among Stoics, though there were then  significant  disagreements  about  the  precise  relation.  Similarly  it could now be argued, as it was by Philo and by Plutarch, that Arcesilaus was in the tradition of Plato. In short, instead of stress on a break, it was continuity with classical philosophy that came to be emphasized. 
Second, it is remarkable that Panaetius, Posidonius and others not only take  Plato  and  Aristotle  seriously  as  philosophers;  they  regard  them  as authorities. Indeed, as we have already noted, Panaetius is said by Cicero to call Plato 'divine' constantly, and Galen tells us that Posidonius calls Plato 'divine'. It is clear that this is a reflection of a much larger cultural development, the beginning of Classicism, and - beyond that - a reflection of a more comprehensive cultural pessimism, dreaming of an original state of innocence, of uncorrupted morals, of piety, of perhaps inspired wisdom, somehow still represented by Plato, 'the divine, the most wise, Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
784
e p i l o g u e
the most pious, the Homer of philosophers', as Panaetius put it according to Cicero. This view involved a severe sense of discomfort with, if not condemnation of, the Hellenistic era as a period of decline, both in general and  in  philosophy.  Hence  the  sense  that  one  had  to  go  back  to  the ancients, in the first instance to Plato and Aristotle, but also to Pythagoras and perhaps  further back still, to Homer,  Hesiod, Pherecydes, the wisdom of the ancients, if not the wisdom of the ancient nations, to look for the traces of the wisdom of an uncorrupted mankind. 
Needless to say, this is a complex matter. I can here address just one aspect of it, and that only in passing. To return to the ancients, and in particular to Plato and Aristotle, involves studying their texts again. This, to begin with, has the consequence that their texts have to be made available in new editions. This in turn raises questions concerning the authenticity of transmitted writings, but also about the order in which they are to be arranged. Introductions to and compendia of Plato's or Aristotle's philosophy  had  to  be  written.  One  started  to  write  monographs  on  specific questions in a certain text, perhaps from a special point of view, for example to explain specifically mathematical questions. Commentaries began to be written. They were written at di◊erent levels. For to treat Plato and Aristotle as authorities meant that if one at first sight did not understand them or disagreed with them, it would be worthwhile to study the text more closely and gain a deeper understanding of it. This was also the reason why reliable texts had to be prepared, to make sure that one really was studying the master's word. And the greater Plato's or Aristotle's authority was held to be, the more the study of philosophy at any level turned into a study of these texts, and writing philosophy more and more came to take  the  form  of  commentary.  Correspondingly  such  commentary  was concerned  less  and  less  to  identify  what  the  author  actually  may  have wanted to say, and more and more to expound the truth suggested by the text.  Thus  we  come  to  a  point  at  which  Origen  can  criticize  Celsus,  a Platonist of the second part of the second century, for treating Plato's text like Scripture. 
All this, as far as Plato and Aristotle are concerned, is well documented. 
What perhaps is worth emphasizing is that it was not just Platonists and Aristotelians who studied and commented on Plato or Aristotle respectively.12 We  have  already  noted  that  the  Stoics  Athenodorus  and Cornutus commented on Aristotle's  Categories, whatever form this may have  taken.  Moreover,  it  is  worth  mentioning,  though  the  evidence  we 12 Platonists later in antiquity came to write commentaries on Aristotle. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
e p i l o g u e
785
have is sparser, that the older Stoics were to some extent accorded a similar treatment. The Stoa had a problem in that it could not trace itself back to classical times. It could emphasize its Socratic heritage and point to its origin in Plato's Academy. Antiochus had been willing to regard the early Stoics' position as evidence for the true Platonic doctrine. And, especially as time went by, it became easier to count Zeno and Chrysippus among the ancients as opposed to the 'younger' or modern philosophers. 
In any event, early in the first century bc we find Athenodorus, a Stoic and  a  librarian  at  Pergamum,  producing  editions  of  works  of  Zeno's, which he saw fit to expurgate. At roughly the same time Apollonius of Tyre  drew  up  biographical  sketches  of  the  various  Stoic  philosophers from  Zeno  onwards,  including  lists  of  their  writings  (Strabo  xvi.2.24). 
Perhaps the reference to Apollonius'  On Zeno  in Diogenes Laertius vii.6 is to a section of this compilation. Stoics also wrote commentaries on their school-texts. Thus we learn that an Aristocles of Lampsacus wrote a commentary in four books on Chrysippus'  How we say and think each thing.13
Indeed, Epictetus talks as if, when one had di√culties understanding a text  by  Chrysippus,  one  could  resort  to  a  commentary  on  it  ( Diss. 
i.17.16 -18). It is also clear from repeated remarks in Epictetus that in the Stoa, too, studying and teaching philosophy largely involved the study of authoritative texts. Thus at  Diss. iii.21.6-7 he complains about philosophers who advertise themselves to students saying 'Come and listen to my scholia',  boasting  'I  will  interpret  Chrysippus'  writings  for  you  like nobody else, I will resolve all the unclarities about what he is saying, and here and there I will add the drift of Antipater's and Archedemus' position.' It is this kind of practice which must already have been widespread in philosophy quite generally early in the first century ad to allow Seneca to complain: 'What once was philosophy has been turned into philology'
( Ep. 108.23), a remark echoed by Plotinus' characterization of Longinus as a philologist rather than a philosopher (Porph.  Plot.14. 19-20). 
Thus what is noteworthy about the way Panaetius and Posidonius turn to  Plato  and  Aristotle  is  that,  first,  it  signals  a  reaction  against  and  an abandonment of the outlook typical of Hellenistic philosophy, and, second, it signals a regard for the classical philosophers as authoritative. But, what also is striking about it, is, third, the crossing of school boundaries, the willingness to let oneself be influenced by or even accept views characteristic of a di◊erent school. In this Panaetius and Posidonius foreshadow another characteristic of later philosophy, its eclecticism. 
13 Suda s.v. Aristocles. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
786
e p i l o g u e
*
Eclecticism too is much too complex a phenomenon to be addressed here at all adequately. For instance, in one way it has its source in the assumption that there are authorities. It is because Plato or Aristotle is an authority that his words have to be heeded, whether or not you are a Platonist or an  Aristotelian.  In  another  way  eclecticism  has  its  source  in  an  anti-authoritative stance. It is because you do not acknowledge any particular authority inherent in the position of your school or the founders of your school that you feel free to choose on a particular point between the positions of di◊erent schools. Galen, who is one of the few philosophers in antiquity actually to characterize himself as eclectic, espouses eclecticism out of just such an anti-authoritative attitude, following a tradition going back to Academic scepticism, as we can see from Cicero's  Academica.14
Given the complexity of the matter, I will here focus on one particular aspect, namely the question how the di◊erent schools handled the problem of authority across school boundaries, and the patterns of eclecticism which emerged from this. One thing to note here right from the outset is that Epicureanism seems to have been largely excluded from this eclectic exchange. Epicurus was an authority to his followers, and even outsiders would comment on the faithfulness of the Epicureans to the views of their founder.15 But  Epicurus  for  Epicureans  was  the  only  authority,  and  he was  not  regarded  as  authoritative  by  anybody  else.  The  di◊erences between  Epicureanism  and  the  other  schools  were  too  fundamental  to make  partial  or  selective  assimilations  possible.  If  Seneca  sometimes appears surprisingly accommodating to Epicureanism, we have to keep in mind the 'pastoral' character of much of his writing. If one tries to win others for the good life, or even the good life conceived of by the Stoics, it will  often  be  opportune  not  to  insist  on,  or  even  to  minimize,  the  disagreements concerning very fundamental, but hence also quite abstract and theoretical tenets, especially if the persons addressed have Epicurean sympathies, as is the case with Lucilius ( Ep. 23.9). After all, the other three Dogmatic schools did have a common heritage which divided them from the  Epicureans:  they  all  derived  somehow  from  Socrates  and  Plato, whereas Epicurus had made a point of not following any venerable tradition, let alone one which connected him with Plato. 
Increasingly the authority was Plato, and so we should look first at the attitude which the two non-Platonic schools other than the Epicureans 14 Cf. Gal.  Lib.Prop. xix.13K ⫽ p. 95 Marquard;  A◊.Dig. ,  CMG  v.4.1, p.1.28. 
15 Numenius  apud  Euseb.  Praep.Ev. xiv.5.3. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
e p i l o g u e
787
took  towards  Plato  and  Platonism.  There  had  been  a  long  tradition  of admiration for Plato in the Peripatos, no doubt inspired by Aristotle himself, and revealed, e.g., in Clearchus'  Encomium Platonis.16 There were certain limits set by the fact that Aristotle himself criticized Plato. And so there  was  a  tradition  among  the  Peripatetics,  exemplified  foremost  by Alexander  of  Aphrodisias,  which  insisted  on  these  obvious  di◊erences. 
But  it  seems  that  there  was  little  polemic  against  Plato  or  Platonism. 
Peripatetics like Andronicus had no qualms in espousing an old Academic doctrine ascribed to Plato, even where there was a rival Aristotelian doctrine: in his case the doctrine of two, as opposed to ten, categories, absolutes  and  relatives.  It  is  clear  from  Atticus'  remarks  that  in  the  second century ad there was a tendency among Peripatetics to regard themselves as the allies of Platonism.17 This is borne out by the case of Aristocles of Messene  who  talks  of  'Plato's  Peripatos'  (Euseb.  Praep.Ev.  xv.2.1),  and also says ( Praep.Ev.  xi.3.1): 'If there ever was a true and perfect philosopher,  it  was  Plato'  -  surely  a  somewhat  surprising  remark  from  a Peripatetic. What is more, if Panaetius had talked of Plato as the Homer of philosophers, Aristocles wrote 'Who is better, Homer or Plato?'18
As to the Stoics, the tone, it seems, was set by Panaetius' and Posidonius'
positive attitude towards Plato. Seneca expresses himself in striking terms when he criticizes philosophers who proudly talk in a manner which has nothing to do with their own life ( Ep. 108.38). They say things which they have not made their own: 'Plato has said this, Zeno said it, Chrysippus said it, and so did Posidonius and so did a great host of fellow Stoics, large in number and of such reputation.' Here Plato appears at the head of the Stoic cohort. Such friendly sentiments must have been encouraged by a tendency in the Stoa in the first century ad towards asceticism, often associated with Pythagoras  and  exemplified  by  Attalus,  Chaeremon  and  the  Sextii,  who were  Stoics,  but  preferred  to  be  called  Pythagoreans.  There  were  strong common interests, for instance in demonology and magic, and there were very few fundamental di◊erences, easily identifiable and primarily concerning the transcendence of God and the intellect. Some issues were less clear-cut: thus the classical Stoic doctrine of the complete rationality of the soul was  at  least  undermined  by  Posidonius'  innovations,  if  not,  as  Galen thought, jettisoned by him altogether. It became possible for Porphyry to call a late Stoic, Trypho, 'a Stoic and a Platonist' ( Plot. 17.3). 
The  Platonists  were  less  accommodating.  They,  after  all,  were  the guardians  of  the  heritage  of  the  most  authoritative  philosopher.  His 16 D.L. iii.2; cf. Ath. 393a. 
17 Euseb.  Praep.Ev.  xv.4.6-19; 5.3. 
18 Cf. Suda s.v. Aristocles. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
788
e p i l o g u e







status was invulnerable to challenge except by Pythagoras, who had left no writings. To begin with, the Platonist attitude towards Stoicism was positive, even if critical. Philo, who had taken the position that Academic scepticism was perfectly compatible with philosophical beliefs, was heavily influenced by Stoicism in his positive views. Antiochus - to judge from Cicero's   Academica -  took  the  view  that  the  Stoics  di◊ered  from  the Academy largely in terminology. He himself was said to have introduced into the Academy Stoic views on a large scale, so that he appeared rather like a Stoic fighting Stoics (cf. S.E.  PH  i.235). He also had been, we have to remember, a student of Mnesarchus, who had succeeded Panaetius.19 If we  assume  that  Mnesarchus,  like  Panaetius  and  Posidonius,  admired Plato, it is even easier to see why Antiochus would study with Mnesarchus and  take  such  a  positive  view  of  the  Stoa.  Even  Antiochus  insisted, though, that where the Stoa had deviated from Old Academic doctrine, it had done so for the worse. 
Antiochus'  stoicizing  picture  of  Plato,  as  noted,  provoked  a  reaction which emphasized the 'Pythagorean' elements in Plato, a reaction we first find in Eudorus. But if we look at Eudorus' division of philosophy and in particular  of  ethics,  as  preserved  in  Stobaeus  (ii.42.7-45.6),  it  is  so indebted to Stoicism that it is only intelligible against a Stoic background; indeed it is so faithful to it that it can itself help us to reconstruct the Stoic position on the parts of ethics. Later Platonists thought of the Stoa as having  developed  out  of  the  Academy,  but  also  noted  critically  the  divergences  which  had  given  rise  to  the  split,  or  even  focused  on  the di◊erences. Calvisius Taurus wrote against the Stoics. Plutarch wrote a book  De Stoicorum Repugnantiis  in which he tried to show that wherever the Stoics deviated from Platonic doctrine they fell into contradiction, as if  held  captive  by  the  truth.  Numenius  insisted  on  the  claim  that  the Stoics  had  abandoned  the  true  Platonic  philosophy.  And  Plotinus  is highly critical of Stoicism. 
But this last case points to an important phenomenon. Porphyry, who was very scholarly and had an extensive knowledge both of Aristotle and of the Stoics, observed that Plotinus, though highly critical of Aristotle and the Stoa, had actually absorbed a great deal both of Stoicism and of Aristotelianism  ( Plot.  14.4-7).  Moderatus  of  Gades,  as  Porphyry  noted elsewhere, had already described what he took to be a similar phenomenon ( VP  53). Moderatus complained that Plato, Aristotle, and their students,  with  minor  modifications,  appropriated  for  themselves  those 19 Numenius  apud  Euseb.  Praep.Ev. xiv.9.3, Phld.  Stoic. Hist. col. 51.4. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
e p i l o g u e
789
Pythagorean  doctrines  which  suited  them,  pretending  that  there  was nothing  particularly  Pythagorean  about  them,  thus  attributing  to  the Pythagoreans only those views they found objectionable or even ridiculous. We may find this diagnosis mistaken in the case of Pythagoreanism, but it does seem that the Stoics in our period often were the victims of a similar attitude, for instance on the part of Numenius or Plotinus. And this was made easier by the view that, after all, the Stoa was an o◊-shoot of the Academy, a fact unduly obscured by Stoic innovations in terminology. 
Hence what was regarded as good about Stoicism could be regarded as not specifically Stoic, but as part of the common Academic heritage. 
Aristotle, being a classical philosopher and nearer to Plato, had a better standing among the Platonists than Zeno and the Stoics. Antiochus had apparently  minimized  di◊erences  in  their  views.  But  Calvisius  Taurus wrote  a  treatise  on  the  di◊erences  between  Plato  and  Aristotle.20
Numenius rejects the view that Aristotle still somehow preserves the true doctrine.21 He  notes  that  Cephisodorus  is  supposed  to  have  attacked Aristotle's  theory  of  ideas,  but  thinks  that  this  only  shows  that Cephisodorus  never  read  Aristotle  and  mistook  him  for  a  Platonist.22
Apparently it was a point that needed to be made, especially in light of the fact  that  some  Peripatetics  like  Aristocles  were  minimizing  the di◊erences. For Atticus again tried to show that Plato and Aristotle were in basic disagreement.23 And this certainly was the view Plotinus took. 
*
Given on the one hand Aristotle's own criticism of Plato, and given, on the other hand, the fact that Aristotle in his mature thought seems to have been motivated by considerations rather similar to Plato's, and that in the debate with early Stoicism there are large areas in which Aristotle seems to be lined up with Plato against the Stoics (for instance on the parts and the a◊ections of the soul, on goods and the good life, and on the existence of immaterial objects), one understands the ambivalence. Porphyry wrote both a treatise on the agreement of Plato and Aristotle, and a treatise on the  disagreement  between  Plato  and  Aristotle.24 And  it  seems  to  be  in good part due to Porphyry's influence that a somewhat unstable compromise  was  found,  which  allowed  Platonists  to  look  upon  Aristotle  as  an authority on logic and physics, who wrote sometimes for an audience not yet introduced to the higher realms of reality, as in his  Categories. 
20 Cf. Suda s.v. Taurus. 
21 Numenius  apud  Euseb.  Praep.Ev. xiv.5.8. 
22 Numenius  apud  Euseb.  Praep.Ev. xiv.6.9. 
23 Cf. Euseb.  Praep.Ev. xi.1.2; xv.4.6 ◊.; 5.3. 
24 Cf. Suda s.v. Porphyrios; Elias  Porph. 39.6-8. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
790
e p i l o g u e
It remains to consider the attitude of Stoics and Aristotelians to each other. Some of the relevant facts already have been mentioned, in particular  Panaetius'  and  especially  Posidonius'  positive  view  of  Aristotle.  It seems, though, that on the whole the interests of the two schools developed in  di◊erent directions, and that  where they overlapped, as on the question of fate and determinism or in logic, there was dispute. Aristotle never was accorded the place of honour given to Plato. Peripatetics could not avoid being influenced by Stoicism, in that they had to address the questions  raised  by  the  Hellenistic  Stoa  and  had  inherited  the  largely Stoic  Hellenistic  philosophical  vocabulary  and  conceptual  framework. 
But they had no reason to treat the Stoics as anything but opponents who failed to agree with Aristotle and the truth on some fundamental issues in logic, physics, metaphysics, and ethics. 
These, then, are some of the most important and characteristic traits of philosophy in the first two centuries ad which can be traced back directly to  the  end  of  the  second  century  bc,  by  considering  Panaetius, Posidonius, and their contemporaries like Philo. But there is yet more of relevance for the future evolution of philosophy to be learned from considering the stances of these thinkers. 
*
It seems that Sulla's conquest of Athens in 87 bc had a devastating e◊ect on  philosophy  in  Athens.  Not  only  did  Sulla  take  Aristotle's  library  to Rome. Philo, the head of the Academy, had already left Athens for Rome. 
It seems that the Academy physically su◊ered very considerable damage and actually ceased to exist as an institution. Similarly the Lyceum seems to  have  su◊ered.  Andronicus  of  Rhodes  is  the  last  scholarch  of  the Peripatos we know of, and, as we saw, he too went to Rome. For all we know, the Peripatos as an institution had come to an end, too. These are dramatic changes, but they were foreshadowed by earlier events. 
It is characteristic of Hellenistic philosophy (i.e. from roughly 30 0 bc to about 125 bc) that it is essentially an Athenian a◊air. There were quite literally four schools in Athens. Somebody who really wanted to be a philosopher  came  to  Athens  and  studied  in  these  schools.  And  somebody who  became  a  good  philosopher  almost  invariably  stayed  in  Athens. 
More likely than not the most distinguished representative of a school at some point became scholarch. Epicurus and Zeno came to Athens and stayed. Right from the time of their first successors there were attempts to persuade major philosophers to leave Athens to live at court. But they failed.  Thus  Zeno  was  invited  to  join  Antigonus,  but  he  sent  Persaeus Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
e p i l o g u e
791
instead  (D.L.  vii.6-9).  When  Ptolemy  asked  Cleanthes  to  come  to Alexandria,  he  refused;  so  did  Chrysippus,  hence  Sphaerus  went  (D.L. 
vii.185; cf. 177). 
This is all the more remarkable given that few of the leading figures were themselves Athenians. Zeno, Herillus, Chrysippus, and Clitomachus were not even of Greek origin. It seems that if one was serious about philosophy as  a  theoretical  enterprise,  there  really  was  no  alternative  to  going  to Athens. Athens itself managed to retain considerable political significance and  enough  economic  vitality  to  support  a  fairly  sizeable  philosophical community. Indeed, on the whole it seems to have welcomed its philosophers. When in 155 bc Athens sent an embassy to Rome, this very fact indicated that times were changing. Athens had been pressed into a treaty with Rome which it violated, for which violation Rome demanded an exorbi-tant  fine.  Athens  by  now  saw  no  alternative  to  sending  an  embassy  to Rome to plead for a reduction or a cancellation of the fine. The embassy consisted of three scholarchs, the Academic Carneades, the Stoic Diogenes of Babylon, and the Peripatetic Critolaus. This is not only, on any count, a group of highly distinguished philosophers. No less important is that they clearly had no rivals anywhere else, nobody even faintly comparable. 
But when we come to the latter part of the century, the situation has radically changed. Here, again, Panaetius and Posidonius are exemplary. 
Of course, Panaetius had been a student of Diogenes of Babylon and of Antipater in Athens. But he does leave Athens, at least for about fifteen years, to return only around 129 to succeed Antipater. Equally significant is that in the meantime he goes to Rome, associates with the circle around P. Cornelius Scipio Aemilianus, and so achieves contact with the rising power of Rome. From now on many major Greek philosophers will  go  to  Rome  for  extended  periods  of  time,  or  even  stay  there  for good. Rome from the first century bc onwards, until at least well into the third century ad, becomes a major philosophical centre. But to come back  to  Panaetius.  Panaetius  in  the  end  still  does  return  to  Athens  to become scholarch. But Posidonius not only leaves Athens; he sets up a school elsewhere in Rhodes. Antiochus goes to Alexandria with some of his followers, and there all of a sudden seems to be a lot of philosophical activity in Alexandria in the first century bc. By the time we get to the latter half of the century, a major philosopher more likely than not is not to  be  found  in  Athens,  but  in  Rome  or  Alexandria  or  Rhodes  or  elsewhere.  Athens  definitely  has  lost  its  monopoly.  It  will  be  a  long  time before it again exercises a leading role in philosophy with the rise of the Platonist  School  of  Athens.  It  is  indicative  of  this  state  of  a◊airs  that Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
792
e p i l o g u e
Cicero  in  the  late  40s  tries  to  persuade  the  Areopagus  to  induce  the Peripatetic Cratippus to stay in Athens (Plu.  Cic. 24). Romans might still send their sons to Athens to study philosophy, as does Cicero. But this was hardly a reflection of the quality of philosophy on o◊er at Athens at this point. In this regard they would have been better served staying at Rome. 
The consequences of this are easy to see. The di◊usion of philosophers and the emergence of a variety of centres of philosophical study encouraged  a  proliferation  of  philosophical  positions,  fostered  separate  and independent developments, and undermined the unity of the position of a school.  There  could  now  be  a  variety  of  Stoicisms,  Platonisms,  or Aristotelianisms. This goes some way to explain the absence of clear contours in the history of the philosophy done in the period from 125 bc to 250 ad. To know the position of Chrysippus is roughly speaking to know the  position  of  the  Stoa  of  his  time.  But  to  know  the  position  of Posidonius or Mnesarchus or Cornutus is only to know what some Stoics in their day thought. 
This e◊ect is amplified by the fate of the Athenian schools. As institutions  these  schools  lost  their  importance  and  seem  to  have  gone  out  of existence. There was no scholarch to define the philosophical position of the school. It was no longer relatively clear what the position of a school was on a particular question at a particular time, or even what it was to be a  Stoic,  or  a  Peripatetic.  Schools  now  became  movements  of  thought, fairly vaguely defined. Philosophers of rather di◊erent views could claim to be Stoics or Peripatetics. 
To some extent it was arbitrary how somebody was classified. Lucian in the  Eunuchus  gives us a picture of the competition for the successor to a chair of Peripatetic philosophy in Athens established by Marcus Aurelius. 
The  competitors  tried  to  show  that  they  were  well  versed  in Aristotelianism, but also that they themselves were partisans of Aristotle and his doctrines (ch. 2). There would have been little point in this if it had been  clear  anyway  who  counted  as  a  Peripatetic  and  what  one  could expect  of  such  a  person.  Obviously  there  was  the  fear  that  somebody might claim to be a Peripatetic without being one, or without being an orthodox one. There was also something like the reverse. Historians distinguish  the  school  of  the  Sextii;  but  Seneca  ( Ep.  64.2)  tells  us  that  the elder Sextius, though he denied it, really was a Stoic, and that seems to be right. 
While  other  authors  too  of  this  period  are  di√cult  to  classify,  like Favorinus  of  Arelate  or  Lucianus,  still  others,  like  Galen  refuse  to  be Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
e p i l o g u e
793
regarded as members of any school or movement.25 This vagueness and indefiniteness about what it is to belong to a certain school must have reinforced greatly the process by which the founders of a school turned into  authorities  and  their  writings  became  authoritative  texts  that  to some extent defined the school. What came to unify a school more and more  was  the  special  status  the  schools  accorded  to  their  respective founder or founders. At the beginning of the period it still had been possible for a Peripatetic to take issue with Aristotle, even though Aristotle was an authority. Thus Andronicus does not accept Aristotle's doctrine of categories, and Xenarchus writes against Aristotle's assumption of a fifth element.26 But it seems that in the course of time the explication and  defence  of  Plato's  or  Aristotle's  views  became  more  and  more important. 
*
One  thing  which  we  set  out  to  explain  was  the  fate  of  the  Hellenistic schools in the post-Hellenistic era. What characterizes the philosophy of late antiquity from the second part of the third century ad onwards is the fact that philosophers invariably espouse one form of Platonism or other: Aristotelianism,  Stoicism,  Epicureanism,  and  scepticism  are  no  longer active movements. Needless to say, the reasons for this are manifold. But the main reason surely is that only some form of Platonism satisfied the way  people  in  late  antiquity  looked  at  the  world:  the  demand  for  a transcendent God, the belief in a vast realm of spiritual beings, an other-worldly view of life and the belief in an afterlife. In particular, with the rise  and  eventual  domination  of  Christianity,  and,  given  the  form Christian  dogma  had  taken  (in  good  part  under  the  influence  of Platonism) by the time it became dominant, there was no longer any place for Stoicism, Epicureanism or Aristotelianism. Even Hellenism or paganism  and  the  attempts  to  revive  paganism  were  inspired  by  Platonism. 
Later in the third century ad a Peripatetic like Anatolius of Laodicea could still become bishop (cf. Euseb.  HE  vii.32.6 ◊.), but by the fourth or fifth century this would have been quite di√cult, given for instance Aristotle's belief in the eternity of the world, not to mention the suspicion that his logic inspired heresies like Arianism. 
Some remarks by Longinus quoted by Porphyry in his  Life of Plotinus (ch.  20)  seem  to  give  us  a  fairly  representative  view  of  the  state  of 25  Lib.Prop.  xix.13K ⫽p. 95 Marquard;  A◊.Dig. ,  CMG  v.4.1, p.1.28 f. 
26 Simp.  Cat.  63.22 ◊.,  Cael. 25.22 ◊. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
794
e p i l o g u e
philosophy  in  Plotinus'  time.  The  remarks  come  from  the  dedicatory epistle  to  Longinus'  book   On  the  end.  Longinus  complains  that  in  his youth (he was born around 210 ad) there still were many philosophers of some  distinction,  whereas  now  there  is  hardly  anybody  left,  except  for Plotinus and Amelius who are much more philosophical than their contemporaries or even the philosophers of Longinus' youth. These philosophers  of  the  recent  past  Longinus  divides  into  two  groups:  those  who tried  to  contribute  to  philosophy  by  their  writings,  and  those  who focused on teaching, though they may have left some occasional piece of writing ( Plot. 20.25-9). Among the former he lists the Platonists Euclides, Democritus  and  Proclinus,  but  also  Plotinus  and  Amelius,  the  Stoics Themistocles,  Phoebion,  Annius,  and  Medius,  and  the  Peripatetic Heliodorus  ( Plot.  20.29-36).  Among  the  latter  he  counts  the  Platonists Ammonius  and  Origen,  Theodotus  and  Eubulus,  the  Stoics  Herminus, Lysimachus, Athenaeus, and Musonius, and the Peripatetics Ammonius and Ptolemaeus ( Plot. 20.36-57). So there are nine Platonists, eight Stoics, three  Peripatetics,  and  no  Epicurean,  though  this  perhaps  just  reflects Longinus' bias. 
Of these twenty philosophers Longinus thinks that two are outstanding, the Platonists Plotinus and Amelius. We will question his judgement concerning Amelius. But if we lower our standards somewhat, we will be able to say that the four philosophers on the list who have a secure place of considerable significance in the history of philosophy are all Platonists: Ammonius, Origen, Plotinus and Amelius. Indeed of the nine Platonists, all  but  one  or  two,  Proclinus  and  Theodotus,  are  known  or  even  well known to us from elsewhere. Of the eight Stoics four are only mentioned here;  there  is  the  faint  possibility  that  Themistocles  and  Phoebion  are each  mentioned  once  elsewhere,  though  not  because  of  their  doctrine; there is the strong possibility that Lysimachus is the Lysimachus already mentioned by Porphyry ( Plot. 3.43) as the teacher of Amelius. This leaves us with Medius as the only Stoic on the list of whom we do have definite, though  insignificant,  knowledge  about  his  philosophical  position  from elsewhere (Procl.  Rep. i.234.1◊.). Of the three Peripatetics Heliodorus is otherwise unknown, Ammonius seems to be mentioned by Philostratus in the  Lives of Sophists (ii.27), and Ptolemaeus has been plausibly identified with the Peripatetic mentioned by Sextus Empiricus ( M  i.60 and 72) as denying that grammar is a matter of empirical knowledge, as Dionysius Thrax had claimed. 
Apart from the Platonists we thus know only Medius for some definite philosophical view, and this is the traditional Stoic view that the soul has Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
e p i l o g u e
795
eight parts. The impression we get is very much reinforced by Longinus'
comments on these men. As to the Peripatetics, Heliodorus, according to Longinus, did indeed try to contribute to philosophy by writing, but he merely  reworked  the  lectures  (perhaps  commentaries)  of  earlier Peripatetics;  Ptolemaeus  and  in  particular  Ammonius  were  extremely learned  (Porph.  Plot.  20.49  and  51),  but  only  left  poems  and  rhetorical show-pieces, no technical works. Of the Stoics Phoebion was more concerned with style than with intellectual substance ( Plot.  20.63-5), and in any  case  the  Stoics  who  did  write  wrote  comments  on  small  historical questions concerning old Stoic authors, and tried to compose treatises on the same topics as their predecessors. There is no originality. There are no new problems. And this was the state of philosophy in Longinus' youth, which, he thought, had dramatically deteriorated, in that there were few philosophers left. As far as Aristotelianism or Stoicism is concerned, given our evidence, he certainly seems to be right. 
So  why  were  the  old  schools  rapidly  disappearing,  if  they  had  not already  disappeared?  Scepticism  ran  counter  to  the  spirit  of  the  times. 
Pyrrhonism all along seems to have been represented not so much by philosophers,  as  by  Empiricist  doctors,  men  like  Menodotus,  Theodas,  or Sextus Empiricus. It certainly did not find public favour. Marcus Aurelius provided professorships for the four traditional schools, but not for the Pyrrhonists. Larger communities like Smyrna would have or even fund representatives of the four schools, but not of Pyrrhonism. If Pyrrhonists were aggressive, they would attack the spreading idea that the salvation of the  soul  required  knowledge  of  things  beyond  ordinary  experience  or, failing that, at least unwarranted belief or faith as a first, perhaps necessary, step to knowledge. If they were conservative, they would continue in the  simple  beliefs  and  customs  of  their  ancestors,  which  similarly  were deemed inadequate. 
Epicureanism  su◊ered  for  similar  reasons.  Origen  was  mistaken  in identifying  Celsus,  the  author  of  an  attack  on  Christianity,  as  an Epicurean. But what helped to make the identification seem plausible was that  this  sort  of  attack  was  precisely  what  might  be  expected  from  an Epicurean; and as Origen knew, there was an Epicurean called Celsus who could well have been the author of an attack on Christianity.27 For Celsus the Epicurean had written against magic, and Lucian evidently dedicated his  Alexander  to him because he took Celsus to share his views on wonder-workers like Alexander, a student of Apollonius of Tyana who was glo-27 Orig.  Cels. i.68; cf. Lucian  Alex. 25, 43, 61. Evidence on magic:  Alex. 21. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
796
e p i l o g u e
rified by Philostratus as a holy man and a great worker of miracles, and later  often  compared  to  Jesus.  For  given  the  Epicurean  view  of  nature, such wonder-workers could not but be charlatans, deceiving the credulous in their ignorance of the workings of nature. From the very beginning Epicureanism had aimed at freeing people from what it took to be superstitious beliefs about the interference of gods and about the afterlife. 
Epicureans  rejected  them  as  irrational  and  in  conflict  with  a  proper understanding of reality. This concern was still passionately expressed by Lucretius. But such views now damaged the attraction of Epicureanism. 
An understanding of reality which left no room for the supernatural was regarded as radically inadequate at a time when the influence of superior powers and their interference with the regular course of events seemed so palpable to everybody. 
To some extent even Aristotelianism, with its rather sober and theoretical  view  of  things,  su◊ered  from  the  fact  that  it  did  not  accommodate common belief concerning God, providence, the afterlife. It also su◊ered from  the  fact  that  Aristotle,  once  accorded  a  carefully  circumscribed authority, could be and was integrated into a Platonist view of the world. 
He could be seen as the master logician, as opposed to the Platonic dialectician; as the philosopher of the physical world, as opposed to the higher realms  of  reality;  as  the  philosopher  who  had  recognized  the  Divine Intellect, but failed to recognize God, the First Principle. 
Stoicism, on the other hand, especially in the form it had received from Posidonius, was well equipped to accommodate popular belief in magic, astrology, other forms of divination, demons, the afterlife of the soul and the divine origin of at least part of it, or divine providence. It provided the basis for social criticism, it gave concrete moral advice which seemed to appeal  to  people,  it  o◊ered  attractive  ways  of  life  and  justifications  for them.  But  in  the  end  it  su◊ered  from  the  fact  that  it  was  only  of Hellenistic  origin.  What  was  appealing  about  it  had  been  absorbed  by Platonism. And it lacked what only Platonism could o◊er, the belief that this life is not the real life, that this world is not the real world, and that God is not part of this world. Ultimately people were not prepared to live with the idea that everything is corrupt, but that this makes good sense from a global point of view, when there was so little realistic hope that things would be radically di◊erent, even though one struggled to purify one's heart and to help others on the way. Chrysippus had said that one drowned just below the surface as much as if one was stuck at the bottom of  the  sea.  But  when  he  said  this  there  was  the  hope,  one  would  have Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
e p i l o g u e
797
thought, of emerging above the surface. The Stoics had had five centuries to try, without success. It is not surprising that it came to be thought that Stoicism  had  not  lived  up  to  its  promise,  and  that  something  else  was needed. It was in this way that the future came to belong to Platonism and then to Christianity. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
 Appendix
Synopsis of the principal events and schools
T i z i a n o   D o r a n d i
 Year BC
 Academy
 Lyceum
 Stoa
 Kepos
 Pyrrhonists
 Minor Socratics
 c.  412-03
Birth of Diogenes of
Sinope
 c.  408
Birth of Speusippus
396/5
Birth of Xenocrates
372/1-371/0
Birth of Theophrastus
 c.  368/5
Birth of Crates of Thebes
367 or 361
Xenocrates accompanies
Plato to Sicily
361/0
Heraclides heads the Academy
365-360
Birth of Pyrrho
 c.  360
Birth of Stilpo
 c.  360-280
Aristotle of Cyrene
 c.  350-250
Antipater of Cyrene
 ante  348
Birth of Euphantus
348/7
Theophrastus at Assos
345/4
Birth of Menedemus of
Eretria
342/1
Birth of Epicurus
340-330
Birth of Strato
340-250
Theodorus the Atheist
 c.  339
Birth of Alexinus
339/8
Death of Speusippus; 
Xenocrates becomes scholarch
337/6
Aristotle in Lyceum
334/3
Birth of Zeno
334-324
Pyrrho and Anaxarchus
in Asia with Alexander
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
331/0
Birth of Cleanthes
Birth of Metrodorus
328/7
Epicurus begins philo-
sophical studies
 c.  325
Birth of Idomeneus
Birth of Timon
and Hermarchus
 c.  324
Birth of Pythocles
 c.  324-321
Death of Diogenes of
Sinope
323-321
Epicurus ephebe
322
Xenocrates' mission to
Antipater
322/1
Death of Aristotle; 
Theophrastus becomes
scholarch
 c.  320
Birth of Colotes
320-311
Epicurus in Colophon
320-30 0
 floruit  of Dionysius
of Chalcedon and
Euphantus
317-307
Demetrius of Phalerum
governor of Athens
316/5
Birth of Arcesilaus
315-284
 floruit  of
Diodorus Cronus
314/13
Death of Xenocrates; 
Polemo becomes scholarch
311/10-307/6
Epicurus teaches at
Mytilene and at Lampsacus
 c.  310
Philo's study with
Diodorus Cronus
307/6
Birth of Persaeus
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
 Year BC
 Academy
 Lyceum
 Stoa
 Kepos
 Pyrrhonists
 Minor Socratics
307/6 or 305/4
Epicurus founds the Garden
in Athens
 c.  306-301
Idomeneus is court dignitary
at Lampsacus
 c.  301
Idomeneus converts to
Epicureanism
301/0
Epicurus writes book xiv
of the  peri physeo-s
30 0/299
Epicurus writes book xv
of the  peri physeo-s
30 0/299 or 299/8
Birth of Lyco
296/5
Epicurus writes book xxviii
of the  peri physeo-s
 c.  290
Apostasy of Timocrates
 floruit  of Hegesias
290-280
Death of Polyaenus
288/7-287/6
Death of Theophrastus; 
Strato becomes scholarch
288-285
Death of Crates of
Thebes
 c.  285
Birth of Sphaerus
 c.  284
Death of Diodorus Cronus
 c.  280
Death of Stilpo
 c.  280-275
 floruit  of Panthoides
280-276
Birth of Chrysippus
278/7
Death of Metrodorus
276/5
Death of Crantor
275-273
Birth of Eratosthenes
275-270
Death of Pyrrho
 c.  270
Timon in Athens
271/0
Death of Epicurus
270/69
Death of Polemo; 
Crates becomes scholarch
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
270/69-269/8
Death of Strato; 
Lyco becomes scholarch
268-264
Death of Crates; 
Arcesilaus becomes scholarch
267/6
Hermarchus opposes
Alexinus
 c. 265
Sphaerus goes to Athens
Death of Alexinus
262/1
Death of Zeno; 
Cleanthes becomes scholarch
261/0
Death of Menedemus of
Eretria
260-255
 floruit  of Prytanis
 floruit  of Persaeus
 c.  250
Birth of Aristo of Ceos
Death of Hermarchus; 
 floruit  of Aristotle the
Polystratus becomes scholarch; 
Dialectician and of
Birth of Basilides (?)
Artemidorus
243
Death of Persaeus
241/0
Death of Arcesilaus; 
Lacydes becomes scholarch
 c.  240
Sphaerus in Sparta
 c.  235
Death of Timon
 c.  230
Birth of Diogenes of
Seleucia
230/29
Death of Cleanthes
229-209
Aristocreon at Athens
225
Prytanis' mission
to Antigonus Doson
226/5 or 
Lacydes resigns as
Death of Lyco; 
225/4
scholarch; Telecles and
Aristo becomes scholarch
Euander succeed him
 c.  222
Sphaerus in Egypt with
Cleomenes III
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
 Year BC
 Academy
 Lyceum
 Stoa
 Kepos
 Pyrrhonists
 Minor Socratics
219/8
Death of Polystratus; 
Dionysius of Lamptrai
becomes scholarch
214/3
Birth of Carneades of
Cyrene the Elder
208-204
Death of Chrysippus
206/5
Death of Lacydes
205/4
Death of Dionysius; Basilides
becomes scholarch
187/6
Birth of Clitomachus
185/4
Death of Moschion
185-180
Birth of Panaetius
 c.  175
Death of Basilides; Thespis (?)
becomes scholarch
? 
Apollodorus becomes scholarch
174/3
Death of Eubulus of Ephesus
and of Eubulus of Erythrae
 c.  170
Birth of Mnesarchus and
Dardanus
168/7
Death of Agamestor
 post  168/7
Panaetius studies with
Crates of Mallos
167/6
Death of Telecles; Carneades the
Elder becomes scholarch
166/5
Death of Apollonius
163/2
Clitomachus in Athens
 ante  155
Panaetius becomes  hierothutes
of Poseidon Hippios at Lindos
155
Carneades' mission to Rome
Critolaus' mission to Rome Diogenes' mission to Rome
 post  155
Panaetius studies with
Diogenes in Athens
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
154/3
Birth of Philo; Clitomachus
begins his studies with Carneades
the Elder
 c.  150
Birth of Zeno of Sidon
and of Demetrius Laco
150-140
Death of Diogenes
150-120
 floruit  of Protarchus of
Bargylia
149/8
Panaetius is  hieropoios  in
Athens
 post  146
Panaetius meets Scipio
143/2
Death of Eubulus
142/1
Charmadas, aged 22, 
goes to Athens
140/39
Clitomachus retires
in the Palladium
140-138
Panaetius in the East
with Scipio
138
Birth of Phaedrus
 c.  138-120
Panaetius travels between
Rome and Athens
137/6
Carneades the Elder retires as
scholarch; succeeded by
Carneades the Younger
131/0
Death of Carneades the Younger; 
succeeded by Crates of Tarsus
 c.  130
Birth of Antiochus of Ascalon
130/29
Philo goes to Athens
Death of Carneades the Elder; 
Death of Antipater of
Clitomachus in the
Tarsus; Panaetius becomes
Academy
scholarch
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
 Year BC
 Academy
 Lyceum
 Stoa
 Kepos
 Pyrrhonists
 Minor Socratics
127/6
Death of Crates; Clitomachus
becomes scholarch
120/19
Death of Boethus of Marathon
119/8
Phaedrus is ephebe
 c.  118
Death of Critolaus
110/9
Death of Clitomachus; 
Death of Panaetius
Philo becomes scholarch
 c.  100
Zeno becomes scholarch
 c.  90
Antiochus' conversion
 post  88
Philo in Rome
Death of Mnesarchus
Phaedrus in Rome
and Dardanus
 c.  87-84
Antiochus goes to Alexandria
in Egypt
84/3
Death of Philo
79
Antiochus in Athens
 c. 68
Death of Antiochus
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
 Editions of sources and fragments
Collections of fragments of various authors
von Arnim, J. (1903-05)  Stoicorum Veterum Fragmenta, 3 vols. (Leipzig); vol. 4, indexes by Adler, M. (Leipzig 1924) [abbreviation:  SVF]
Giannantoni, G. (1990)  Socratis et Socraticorum Reliquiae, 4 vols. (Naples)
[abbreviation:  SSR]
Hülser, K.-H. (1987-88)  Die Fragmente zur Dialektik der Stoiker, 4 vols. (Stuttgart)
[abbreviation:  FDS]
Series of editions of individual authors
• Editions of many Greek and Latin authors are available in the following series: Bibliotheca Scriptorum Graecorum et Latinorum Teubneriana, B.G. Teubner: Leipzig & Stuttgart [abbreviation: Teubner]
Scriptorum Classicorum Bibliotheca Oxoniensis [⫽Oxford Classical Texts], Clarendon Press: Oxford [abbreviation: OCT]
Collection des Universités de France, publiée sous le patronage de l'Association de Guillaume Budé, Les Belles Lettres: Paris (Greek or Latin text with facing French translation) [abbreviation: Budé]
The Loeb Classical Library, Harvard University Press and W. Heinemann, Cambridge Mass. & London (Greek or Latin text with facing English translation)
[abbreviation: Loeb]
In general critical editions in the Teubner and Oxford series are recommended, although many in the Budé and Loeb series, especially in the last quarter century, are also valuable. The particular suggestions in the list which follows are designed to guide the reader to editions which are regarded as standard or as particularly useful for the student of Hellenistic philosophy, or which authors of this History have recommended. 
• Standard editions of a number of the authors and works mentioned below are to be found in the following series:
Commentaria in Aristotelem Graeca, Prussian Academy series [abbreviation:  CAG]
Corpus Christianorum, Series Latina [abbreviation:  CCSL]
Corpus Medicorum Graecorum, Berlin Academy series [abbreviation:  CMG]
Corpus Medicorum Latinorum, Berlin Academy series [abbreviation:  CML]
Corpus Scriptorum Ecclesiasticorum Latinorum [abbreviation:  CSEL]
Die griechischen christlichen Schriftsteller der ersten drei ahrhunderte
[abbreviation:  GCS]
Sources Chrétiennes [abbreviation  SC]
[805]
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
806
 Editions of sources and fragments
Editions of (works or fragments of ) individual authors
A c h i l l e s
 Introductio in Aratum
Maass, E. (1898)  Commentariorum in Aratum reliquiae (Berlin, reprint 1958) A ë t i u s
 Placita
Reconstruction in Diels, H. (1879)  Doxographi Graeci (Berlin) A l c i n o u s
 Didaskalikos
Whittaker, J. & Louis, P. (Budé,1990)  Alcinoos: Enseignement des doctrines de Platon (Paris) A l e x a n d e r   o f   A p h r o d i s i a s
 In Aristotelis Analyticorum Priorum librum I commentarium
Hayduck, M. (1891), in  CAG, vol. ii.1 (Berlin)
 De Anima libri Mantissa
Bruns, I. (1887), in  CAG, Supplementum Aristotelicum, vol. ii.1 (Berlin) In librum De Sensu commentarium
Westland, P. (1901), in  CAG, vol. iii.1 (Berlin)
 In Aristotelis Metaphysica commentarium
Hayduck, M. (1891), in  CAG, vol. i (Berlin)
 De Fato
Sharples, R.W. (1983)  Alexander of Aphrodisias on Fate (London) De Mixtione
Todd, R.B. (1976)  Alexander of Aphrodisias on Stoic Physics (Leiden) Ammonius
 In Aristotelis De Interpretatione commentarium
Busse, A. (1897), in  CAG, vol. iv.5 (Berlin)
[ A n d r o n i c u s ]
 De Passionibus
Glibert-Thirry, A. (1977)  Pseudo-Andronicus de Rhodes 'ΠΕΡΙ ΠΑΘΩΝ' (Leiden) A n o n y m u s   i n   Th e a e t e t u m
Bastianini, G. & Sedley, D.N. (1995), in  Corpus dei Papiri Filosofici Greci e Latini,  pt. iii: Commentari (Florence)
A n o n y m u s   i n   S o p h i s t i c o s   E l e n c h o s Hayduck, M. (1884), in  CAG, vol. xxiii.4 (Berlin)
Anonymus Londinensis
Diels, H. (1893)  Anonymi Londinensis ex Aristotelis Iatricis Menoniis et aliis medicis eclogae, in  CAG, Suppl. Arist., vol. iii.1 (Berlin)
Apollonius Dyscolus
 De Pronominibus
 De Adverbiis
 De Conjunctionibus
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
 Editions of sources and fragments
807
Schneider, R. (1878), in  Grammatici Graeci,  vol. ii.1 (Leipzig) De Syntaxi
Schneider, R. (1910), in  Grammatici Graeci,  vol.ii.2 (Stuttgart) Apollonius of Perga
 Conica
Heiberg, J.L. (Teubner, 1891, 1893)  Apollonii Pergaei Quae Graece exstant cum commentariis antiquis (Stuttgart, reprint 1974) [Books 1-4, fragments]
Toomer, G.J. (1990)  Apollonius: Conics, books V to VII: the Arabic translation of the lost Greek original in the version of the Banu Musa (New York)
Apuleius
 Apologia
Helm, R. (Teubner, 1912)  Apulei Opera  2.1 (Leipzig)
 De Deo Socratis
 De Dogmate Platonis
ΠΕΡΙ ΕΡΜΗΝΕΙΑΣ
Moreschini, C. (Teubner, 1991)  Apulei Opera (Stuttgart & Leipzig) Archimedes
Heiberg, J.L. (Teubner, 1910-15)  Opera omnia cum commentario Eutocii, 4 vols. (Leipzig, reprint 1972)
Mugler. C. (Budé, 1970-2)  Archimède, 4 vols. (Paris)
Arius didymus
Fragments in Diels, H. (1879)  Doxographi Graeci (Berlin) Athenaeus
 Deipnosophistae
Kaibel, G. (Teubner, 1887-90)  Athenaei Naucratitae Deipnosophistarum libri xv, 3 vols. 
(Leipzig, reprint 1965-6)
Augustine
 De Dialectica
Pinborg, J. (1975)  Augustine, de dialectica, ed. J.P. with translation, introduction and notes by B. Darrell Jackson (Dordrecht)
 Epistulae
Goldbacher, A. (1895-1911)  S. Aureli Augustini Hippionensis Epistulae, 4 vols., in  CSEL  34
(double volume), 44, 57 (Vienna & Leipzig)
 Contra Academicos
Green, W.M. (1970), in  S. Aurelii Augustini Contra academicos, De beata vita, De ordine, pt.ii.2,  CCSL  29 (Turnholt)
 De Civitate Dei
Dombart, B. & Kalb, A. (1955), in  S. Aurelii Augustini De civitate Dei, pt.xiv, 2 vols., CCSL  47-8 (Turnholt)
Aulus Gellius
 Noctes Atticae
Marshall, P.K. (OCT, 1968)  Aulus Gellius: Noctes Atticae (Oxford) Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
808
 Editions of sources and fragments
Boethius
 In Ciceronis Topica
Orelli, J.C. & Baiter, J.G. (1837), in  M.Tulli Ciceronis opera quae supersunt, vol. v.1
(Zürich)
Stump, E. (1988)  Boethius's In Ciceronis Topica (Ithaca & London) [translation only]
 De Hypotheticis Syllogismis
Obertello, L. (1969)  A.M.Severino Boezio: De hypotheticis syllogismis (Brescia) De Interpretatione
Minio-Paluello, L. (1965)  De Interpretatione vel Periermenias: Translatio Boethii, in Aristoteles Latinus ii.1-2 (Bruges & Paris) 1-38
Caelius Aurelianus
 Acutae Passiones (⫽ Acut. Morb.)
Drabkin, I.E. (1950)  Caelius Aurelianus: On acute diseases and On chronic diseases (Chicago)
Bendz, G. (1990)  Caelius Aurelianus: Akute Krankheiten Buch I-III, Chronische Krankheiten Buch I-II,  CML  vi.1, pt.1 (Berlin)
C a l c i d i u s
 In Timaeum
Waszink, J.H. (1962)  Timaeus a Calcidio translatus commentarioque instructus (London second revised edn, Leiden 1976)
Carneiscus
Capasso, M. (1988)  Carneisco: Il secondo libro del Filista, La scuola di Epicuro 10 (Naples) Cassiodorus
 Institutiones
Mynors, R.A.B. (1937)  Cassiodori senatoris institutiones (Oxford) Celsus
 Medicina (including  Prooemium)
Marx, F. (1915)  Cornelii Celsi quae supersunt,  CML  i (Berlin) Censorinus
 De Die Natali
Sallmann, N. (Teubner, 1983)  Censorini De die natali liber ad Q. Caerellium (Leipzig) Charisius
 Ars Grammatica
Barwick, K. (Teubner, 19642, revised F.Kühnert)  Artis grammaticae libri V (Leipzig) Cicero
 Academica
Plasberg, O. (Teubner, 1922)  M. Tullius Cicero: Academicorum reliquiae cum Lucullo (Stuttgart, reprint 1961, 1980)
Reid, J.S. (1885)  Cicero: Academica (London)
 De Divinatione
 De Fato
 Timaeus
Giomini, R. (Teubner, 1975)  M. Tullius Cicero:  De divinatione, De fato, Timaeus (Leipzig) Pease, A.S. (1920-3)  M. Tulli Ciceronis De Divinatione, 2 vols. (Urbana, Ill., reprint Darmstadt 1963)
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
 Editions of sources and fragments
809
Yon, A. (Budé, 1933)  Cicéron: Traité du destin (Paris) Sharples, R.W. (1991)  Cicero: On Fate & Boethius: The Consolation of Philosophy IV.5-7, V
(Warminster)
 De Finibus
Schiche, T. (Teubner, 1915)  M. Tullius Cicero: De finibus bonorum et malorum libri quinque (Leipzig, reprint 1961)
Reynolds, L.D. (OCT, 1998)  M.T. Ciceronis: De finibus bonorum et malorum De Legibus
Ziegler, K. (1950)  De legibus (Heidelberg, revised edn, W. Görler, Freiburg im Breslau
& Würzburg 1979)
 De Natura Deorum
Plasberg, O. & Ax, W. (Teubner, 19332)  M. Tullius Cicero: De natura deorum (Stuttgart, reprint 1968, 1980)
Pease, A.S. (1920-3)  M. Tulli Ciceronis De Natura Deorum, 2 vols. (Cambridge, Mass., Darmstadt 1968, 1977)







 De O√ciis
Winterbottom, M. (OCT, 1994)  M. Tulli Ciceronis: De o√ciis (Oxford) De Oratore
Kumaniecki, K. (Teubner, 1969)  M. Tullius Cicero: De oratore (Leipzig) Paradoxa Stoicorum
Molager, L. (Budé, 1971)  Cicéron: Les paradoxes des Stoïciens (Paris) De Republica
Ziegler, K. (Teubner, 1960)  M. Tullius Cicero: De re publica (Leipzig, reprint 1969) Topica
Wilkins, A.S. (OCT, 1903)  M. Tulli Ciceronis:  Rhetorica vol.2 - Brutus, Orator, De optimo genere oratorum, Partitiones oratoriae, Topica (Oxford, reprint 1957) Tusculan Disputations
Dougan, T.W. & Henry, R.M. (1905-342)  Tusculanarum disputationum libri V
(Cambridge)
Pohlenz, M. (Teubner, 1918)  M. Tullius Cicero: Tusculanae disputationes (Stuttgart, reprint 1976)
Clement of Alexandria
 Protrepticus
Stählin, O. (1905) Clemens Alexandrinus vol. I:  Protrepticus und Paedagogus,  GCS  12
(Berlin, 3rd edn by Fruchtel, L. & Treu, U. 1972)
 Stromateis
Stählin, O. (1906) Clemens Alexandrinus vol. ii:  Stromata Buch I-IV,  GCS  15 (Leipzig & Berlin, 4th edn by Fruchtel, L. & Treu, U. 1985)
Stählin, O. (1909) Clemens Alexandrinus vol. iii:  Stromata Buch VII und VIII - Excerpta ex Theodoto - Eclogae propheticae - Quis dives salvetur - Fragmente,  GCS  17 (Leipzig & Berlin, 2nd edn by Fruchtel, L. & Treu, U. 1963)
Cleomedes
 Caelestia
Todd, R. B. (Teubner, 1990)  Cleomedis Caelestia (METEORA) (Leipzig) David
 Prolegomena Philosophiae
Busse, A. (1904), in  CAG, vol. xviii.2 (Berlin)
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
810
 Editions of sources and fragments
Demetrius of Laconia
 Aporiai
Puglia, E. (1988)  Demetrio Lacone: Aporie testuali ed esegetiche in Epicuro (PHerc. 1497) La scuola di Epicuro 8 (Naples)
 De Dis
De Falco, v. (1923)  L'epicureo Demetrio Lacone (Naples) 65-80
Renna, E. (1982) 'Nuove letture nel P.Herc. 1055 (libro incerto di Demetrio Lacone)', Cronache Ercolanesi  12, 43-9
 De Poematis
Romeo, C. (1988)  Demetrio Lacone, La Poesia (PHerc. 188 e 1014), La scuola di Epicuro 9
(Naples)
Dexippus
 In Aristotelis Categorias commentaria
Busse, A. (1888), in  CAG, vol. iv.2 (Berlin)
D i o   C h r y s o s t o m u s
 Orationes
Budé, G. de (Teubner, 1916-19)  Dionis Chrysostomi Orationes, 2. vols. (Leipzig) D i o g e n e s   L a e r t i u s
 Vitae Philosophorum
Long, H.S. (OCT, 1964)  Diogenis Laertii Vitae philosophorum, 2 vols. (Oxford) D i o g e n e s   o f   O e n o a n d a
Smith, M.F. (1993)  Diogenes of Oinoanda, The Epicurean Inscription, La Scuola di Epicuro, Suppl.1 (Naples)
Diomedes
 Ars Grammatica
Keil, H. (1857)  Diomedis Artis grammaticae libri III, in Grammatici Latini, vol. i (Leipzig) Dionysius of Halicarnassus
 De Compositione Verborum
 De Demosthene
 De Lysia
 Epistula ad Pompeium Geminum
 De Thucydide
Usener, H. & Radermacher, L. (Teubner, 1899-1929)  Dionysii Halicarnassei quae exstant, vols. v & vi (Leipzig, repr. Stuttgart 1965)
Aujac, G. (Budé, 1978-92)  Denys d'Halicarnasse: Opuscules Rhétoriques, 5 vols. (Paris) Elias
 In Porphyrii Isagogen commentaria
 In Aristotelis Categorias commentaria
Busse, A. (190 0), in  CAG, vol. xviii.1 (Berlin)
Epictetus
 Dissertationes
 Enchiridion
Schenkl, H. (Teubner, 1916)  Epicteti Dissertationes ad Arriani Digestae (Stuttgart, reprint 1965) Boter, G. (1999)  The  Enchiridion  of Epictetus and its Three Christian Adaptations, Transmission and Critical Editions (Leiden)
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
 Editions of sources and fragments
811
Epicurus
 Epistulae
 Fragments
 Kyriai Doxai
 Sententiae Vaticanae
Usener, H. (1887)  Epicurea (Stuttgart, reprint 1966)
Von der Muehll, P. (1923)  Epicurus. Epistulae tres et ratae sententiae (Leipzig) Arrighetti, A. (19732)  Epicuro: Opere (Florence)
 On Nature
Leone, G. (1984) 'Epicuro,  Della natura, libro xiv',  Cronache Ercolanesi  14, 17-107
Millot, C. (1977) 'Epicure de la nature livre xiv',  Cronache Ercolanesi  7, 9-39
Sedley, D. (1973) 'Epicurus,  On nature  book xxviii',  Cronache Ercolanesi  3, 5-83
Epiphanius
 Adversus Haereses (⫽ Panarion)
Holl, K. (1915-33) Epiphanius, Bände 1-3:  Ancoratus und Panarion,  GCS  25, 31, 37
(Leipzig)
e t y m o l o g i c u m   m a g n u m
Gaisford, T. (1848)  Etymologicon magnum (Oxford)
Euclid
 Elements
Heiberg, J.L. (Teubner, 1969-772, revised E.S. Stamatis)  Euclidis Elementa (& scholia), 6
vols. (Leipzig)
E u d e m u s   o f   R h o d e s
Fragments in Wehrli, F. (19692)  Eudemos von Rhodos, Die Schule des Aristoteles, vol. 
viii (Basle & Stuttgart)
Eusebius
 Historia Ecclesiastica
Bardy, G. (1952-8)  Eusèbe de Césarée: Histoire ecclésiastique, 3 vols.,  SC  31, 41, 55
(Paris)
 Praeparatio Evangelica
Mras, K. & Des Places, E. (1982-32)  Eusebius: Werke, vol. 8.1-2,  Die Praeparatio Evangelica, GCS  43.1-2 (Berlin)
Des Places, E. (1974-91)  Eusèbe de Césarée: La préparation évangélique, 9 vols.,  SC  206, 215, 228, 262, 266, 292, 307, 338, 369 (Paris)
Galen
 Opera Omnia
Kühn, C.G. (1821-33)  Claudii Galeni Opera Omnia, 20 vols. (Hildesheim, reprint 1965)
[abbreviation: K]
 Scripta Minora
Marquardt, J., Mueller, I. & Helmreich, G. (Teubner, 1884-93)  Claudii Galeni Pergameni Scripta Minora, 3 vols. (Amsterdam, reprint 1967) [abbreviation: Scr.Min.]
 Adversus Julianum / Adversus ea quae a Juliano in Hippocratis aphorismos enuntiata sunt libellus (K xviiia)
Wenkebach, E. (1951), in  CMG  v.10.3 (Berlin) 33-70
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
812
 Editions of sources and fragments
 De propriorum animi cuiuslibet a◊ectuum dignotione et curatione (K v, Scr. Min. 1) de Boer, W. (1937), in  CMG  v.4.1.1 (Berlin) 3-37
 De Atra Bile (K v)
de Boer, W. (1937), in  CMG  v.4.1.1 (Berlin) 71-93
 De Causis Contentivis
Lyons, M.C. (1969), in  CMG  Supp.Or. ii [Arabic version] (Berlin) 50-73
Kollesch, J., Nickel, D. & Strohmaier, G. (1969), in  CMG  Supp.Or. ii [Latin version]
(Berlin) 131-41
 De Causis Procatarcticis
Bardong, K. (1937), in  CMG  Supp. ii [Latin version] (Leipzig & Berlin) Institutio Logica
Kalbfleisch, K. (Teubner, 1896)  Galenus: Institutio logica (Leipzig); reprinted with introd., transl. and comm. in Ramirez Trejo, A. & Otero, M. H.  Galeno: Iniciación a la dialectica,  Bibliotheca scriptorum graecorum et romanorum mexicana (Mexico 1982) De Libris Propriis (K xix)
Müller, I. von (Teubner, 1891), in  Galenus: Scripta minora, vol. ii (Amsterdam, reprint 1967) 91-124
 De Experientia Medica
Walzer, R. (1944)  Galen: On Medical Experience (London) De Naturalibus Facultatibus (K ii)
Helmreich, G. (Teubner, 1884)  Claudii Galeni Pergameni Scripta minora,  vol. iii (Amsterdam, reprint 1967) 101-257
 De animi cuiuslibet peccatorum dignotione et curatione (K v; Scr. Min. 1) de Boer, W. (1937), in  CMG  v.4.1.1 (Berlin) 41-68
 De Placitis Hippocratis et Platonis (K v)
De Lacy, P. (1984), in  CMG  v.4.1.2, 3 vols. (Berlin)
 De Sectis Ingredientibus (K i)
Helmreich, G. (Teubner, 1884)  Claudii Galeni Pergameni Scripta minora, vol. iii (Amsterdam, reprint 1967) 1-32
 Subfiguratio Empirica
Deichgräber, K. (1930), in  Die griechische Empirikerschule (Berlin & Zürich, reprint 1965) 42-90
 De Usu Partium (K iii-iv)
Helmreich, G. (Teubner, 1907-9)  Galeni De usu partium libri xvii, 2 vols. (Amsterdam, reprint 1968)
[ G a l e n ]
 Quod qualitates incorporeae sint
Westenberger, J. (1906)  Galeni qui fertur de qualitatibus incorporeis libellus (diss. 
Marburg) 1-19
G r e g o r i u s   Th a u m a t u r g u s
 In Origenem Oratio Panegyrica
Crouzel, H. (1969)  Grégoire le Thaumaturge: Remerciement à Origène suivi de la lettre d'Origène à Grégoire,  SC  148 (Paris) 94-182
H e r m a r c h u s
Longo Auricchio, F. (1988)  Ermarco: Frammenti, La Scuola di Epicuro 6 (Naples) Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
 Editions of sources and fragments
813
H e r o p h i l u s
von Staden, H. (1989)  Herophilus: The Art of Medicine in Early Alexandria (Cambridge) H i e r o c l e s
 Elementa Ethica
Bastianini, G. & Long, A.A. (1992), in  Corpus dei Papiri Filosofici Greci e Latini,  pt.i vol.i**: Autori Noti (Florence)
H i p p o l y t u s
 Philosophumena (⫽ Refutatio omnium haeresium)
Marcovich, M. (1986)  Hippolytus: Refutatio omnium haeresium,  Patristische Texte und Studien 25 (Berlin & New York)
Wendland, P. (1916)  Hippolytus Werke Bd. III: Refutatio omnium haeresium, GCS  26
(Berlin, reprint Hildesheim & New York 1977)
I d o m e n e u s
Angeli, A. (1981) 'I frammenti di Idomeneo di Lampsaco',  Cronache Ercolanesi  11, 41-101
L a c t a n t i u s
 Institutiones Divinae
Perrin, M. (1987)  Lactance: Epitomé des Institutions Divines, SC  335 (Paris) L u c i a n
 Symposium
 Verae Historiae
Macleod, M.D. (OCT, 1972)  Luciani Opera, vol. i (Oxford) Vitarum Auctio
 Alexander
Macleod, M.D. (OCT, 1974)  Luciani Opera, vol. ii (Oxford) L u c r e t i u s
 De Rerum Natura
Bailey, C. (1947)  Titi Lucreti Cari: De Rerum Natura, libri sex, 3 vols. (Oxford, reprint 1963) L y c o
Fragments in Wehrli, F. (19682)  Lykon und Ariston von Keos, Die Schule des Aristoteles, vol. vi (Basle)
M a c r o b i u s
 Saturnalia
Willis, J. (Teubner, 1970)  Ambrosii Theodosii Macrobii I: Saturnalia (Leipzig) M a r c u s   A u r e l i u s
 Meditations
Farquharson, A.S.L. (1944)  The Meditations of the Emperor Marcus Antoninus, 2 vols. 
(Oxford)
Dalfen, J. (Teubner, 1979)  Marci Aurelii Antonini: Ad se ipsum libri XII (Leipzig) M a r t i a n u s   C a p e l l a
Willis, J. (Teubner, 1985)  Martianus Capella (Leipzig) Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
814
 Editions of sources and fragments
M e t r o d o r u s
Koerte, A. (1890) 'Metrodori Epicurei fragmenta',  Jahrbücher für Classische Philologie, Suppl. 17, 531-97
N e m e s i u s
 De Natura Hominis
Morani, M. (Teubner, 1987)  Nemesius: De natura hominis (Leipzig) N u m e n i u s
Des Places, E. (Budé, 1973)  Numenius: Fragments (Paris) O r i g e n
 Contra Celsum
Borret, M. (1967-76)  Origène: Contre Celse, 5 vols.,  SC  132, 136, 147, 150, 227 (Paris) De principiis
Görgemanns, H. & Karpp, H. (1976)  Origenes: Vier Bücher von den Prinzipien (Darmstadt)
Pa n a e t i u s
Straaten, M. van (19623)  Panaetii Rhodii Fragmenta (Leiden) Alesse, F. (1997)  Panezio di Rodi: Testimonianz e (Naples) P h i l o   o f   A l e x a n d r i a
Cohn, L., Wendland, P., & Reiter, S. (1896-1915)  Philonis Alexandrini Opera quae supersunt, 6 vols. (Berlin, reprint 1962)
1
P h i l o d e m u s
 Academicorum Historia
Dorandi, T. (1991)  Filodemo: Storia dei Filosofi - Platone e l'Academia, La Scuola di Epicuro 12 (Naples)
 Ad Contubernales
Angeli, A. (1988)  Filodemo: Agli amici di scuola, La scuola di Epicuro 7 (Naples) De Bono Rege
Dorandi, T. (1982)  Filodemo: Il buon rege secondo Omero, La scuola di Epicuro 3 (Naples) De Dis
Diels, H. (1916)  Philodemos über die Götter, Erstes Buch (Berlin) Diels, H. (1917)  Philodemos über die Götter, Drittes Buch (Berlin) De Ira
Indelli, G. (1988)  Filodemo: L'ira, La Scuola di Epicuro 5 (Naples) De Libertate Dicendi
Olivieri, A. (Teubner, 1914)  Philodemi  περι' παρρησι!α  libellus (Leipzig) De Morte
Kuiper, T. (1925)  Philodemus Over den Dood (Amsterdam) Gigante, M. (19832)  Ricerche Philodemee (Naples) 115-234
 De Musica
Kemke, I. (Teubner, 1884)  Philodemi De Musica librorum quae extant (Leipzig) 1 Information on editions of other writings of Philodemus (not all listed here) is conveniently available in Gigante (1995). 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
 Editions of sources and fragments
815
Rispoli, G.M. (1969) 'Il primo libro del περι' µουσικη
˛ di Filodemo', in Sbordone, F., 
ed.  Ricerche sui Papiri Ercolanesi (Naples) i.225-86
Neubecker, A.J. (1986)  Philodemus Über die Musik, IV.Buch, La scuola di Epicuro 4 (Naples) Delattre, D. (1991) 'Philodème,  De la musique: Livre iv, colonnes 40* à 109*',  Cronache Ercolanesi  19, 49-144
 De Oeconomia
Jensen, C. (Teubner, 1907)  Philodemi  περι' οι0κονοµι!α (Leipzig) De Pietate
Obbink, D. (1996-)  Philodemus: On Piety, 2 vols. (1 published) (Oxford) De Rhetoricis
Sudhaus, S. (Teubner, 1892-6)  Philodemi volumina rhetorica, 2 vols. & suppl. (Leipzig) Longo Auricchio, F. (1977) Φιλοδη!µου περι' / ρητορικη
˛  libri primi et secundi, Ricerche
sui Papiri Ercolanesi (Naples)
Hammerstaedt, J. (1992) 'Der Schlussteil von Philodems drittem Buch über Rhetorik', Cronache Ercolanesi  22, 9-118
 De Signis
De Lacy, P.H. & E.A. (19782)  Philodemus: On Methods of Inference, La Scuola di Epicuro 1 (Naples)
 De Stoicis
Dorandi, T. (1982) 'Filodemo, Gli Stoici (P.Herc. 155 e 39)',  Cronache Ercolanesi  12, 91-133
 Stoicorum Historia
Dorandi, T. (1994)  Filodemo: Storia dei filosofi - La Stoà da Zenone a Panezio (Leiden) De Vitiis
Jensen, C. (Teubner, 1911)  Philodemus  περι' κακιω4ν  liber decimus (Leipzig)
[ P h i l o d e m u s ]
 Ethica Comparetti
Indelli, G. & Tsouna-McKirahan, V. (1995)  [Philodemus]:  On Choices and Avoidances, La scuola di Epicuro 15 (Naples)
P h i l o p o n u s
 In Aristotelis Analytica priora commentaria
Wallies, M. (1905), in  CAG, vol. xiii.2 (Berlin)
 In Aristotelis Categorias commentarium
Busse, A. (1898), in  CAG, vol. xiii.1 (Berlin)
 De Aeternitate Mundi
Rabe, H. (Teubner, 1899)  Johannes Philoponus: De aeternitate mundi contra Proclum (Hildesheim, reprint 1963)
P h i l o s t r a t u s
 Vitae Sophistarum
Kayser, C.L. (Teubner, 1871)  Flavii Philostrati Opera, vol. ii (Hildesheim, reprint 1964) 1-127
P h o t i u s
 Bibliotheca
Henry, R. (Budé, 1959-91)  Photius: Bibliothèque, 9 vols (Paris) Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
816
 Editions of sources and fragments
P l u t a r c h
AA.VV. (Teubner, 1959-78)  Plutarchi Moralia (Leipzig)
 De Communibus Notitiis
 De Stoicorum Repugnantiis
Cherniss, H. (Loeb, 1976), in  Plutarch's Moralia, vol. xiii.2 (Cambridge, Mass. & London)
 Adversus Colotem
 Non Posse Suaviter Vivi Secundum Epicurum
Einarson, B. & De Lacy, P.H. (Loeb, 1967), in  Plutarch's Moralia, vol. xiv (Cambridge, Mass. & London)
[Plutarch]
 Placita Philosophorum
Mau, J. (1991)  Plutrachi Moralia, vol. v2.1 (Leipzig)
P o l y a e n u s
Tepedino Guerra, A. (1988)  Polieno: Frammenti, La scuola di Epicuro 11 (Naples) P o l y b i u s
 Histories
Buettner-Wobst, T. (1889-1905)  Polybii historiae, 4 vols. (Leipzig, reprint 1962-67) P o l y s t r a t u s
 De Irrationali Contemptu
Indelli, G. (1978)  Polistrato: Sul disprezzo irrazionale delle opinioni popolari, La Scuola di Epicuro 2 (Naples)
P o r p h y r y
 De Abstinentia
Bou◊artigue, J., Patillon, M. & Segonds, A.P. (Budé, 1977-95)  Porphyre: De l'Abstinence, 3 vols. (Paris)
 Ad Marcellam
Pötscher, W. (1969)  Porphyrios:  προ' Μαρκε!λλαν (Leiden) Des Places, E. (Budé, 1982), in  Porphyre: vie de Pythagore, Lettre à Marcella (Paris) In Aristotelis Categorias commentarium
Busse, A. (1897), in  CAG, vol. iv.1 (Berlin)
 Vita Plotini
AA. VV. (1992)  Porphyre: La Vie de Plotin, II: Etudes d'introduction, texte grec et traduction française, commentaire, notes complémentaires, bibliographie, Histoire des doctrines de l'antiquité classique 16 (Paris)
 Vita Pythagorae
Nauck, A. (Teubner, 1886), in  Porphyrii philosophi platonici opuscula selecta (Hildesheim, reprint 1977) 17-52
Des Places, E. (Budé, 1982), in  Porphyre: vie de Pythagore, Lettre à Marcella (Paris) Fragments
Smith, A. (Teubner, 1993)  Porphyrius: Fragmenta (Stuttgart & Leipzig) P o s i d o n i u s
Edelstein, L. & Kidd, I. G. (19882)  Posidonius: Vol. I, The Fragments,  Cambridge Classical Texts and Commentaries 13 (Cambridge)
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
 Editions of sources and fragments
817
Kidd, I. G. (1988)  Posidonius, II: The Commentary, Cambridge Classical Texts and Commentaries 14A & B (Cambridge)
P r i s c i a n
 Institutiones Grammaticae
Hertz, M. (1855-9)  Prisciani Institutionum Grammaticarum libri XVIII, 2 vols., in Grammatici Latini 2 & 3 (Leipzig)
P r o c l u s
 In primum Euclidis Elementorum librum commentarii
Friedlein, G. (Teubner, 1873)  Procli Diadochi In primum Euclidis elementorum librum commentarii (Leipzig, reprint Hildesheim 1967, 1992)
 In Platonis Rempublicam commentarii
Kroll, G. (Teubner, 1899-1901)  Procli Diadochi In Platonis Rem Publicam commentarii,  2
vols. (Amsterdam, reprint 1965)
 In Platonis Timaeum commentaria
Diehl, E. (Teubner, 1903-1906)  Procli Diadochi In Platonis Timaeum commentaria,  3 vols. 
(Amsterdam, reprint 1965)
 Theologia Platonica
Sa◊rey, H. D. & Westerink, L. G. (1968-)  Proclus: Théologie Platonicienne,  5 vols. to date (books 1-5) (Paris)
P y r r h o
Fragments in Decleva Caizzi, F. (1981)  Pirrone: Testimonianze (Naples) Q u i n t i l i a n
 Institutiones Oratoriae
Radermacher, L. (Teubner, 1959-712, revised V. Buchheit)  M. Fabii Quintiliani Institutiones Oratoriae libri XII (Leipzig)
Winterbottom, M. (OCT, 1970)  M. Fabii Quintiliani Institutiones Oratoriae (Oxford) S c h o l i a   o n   D i o n y s i u s   Th r a x
Hilgard, A. (1901)  Scholia in Dionysii Thracis Artem Grammaticam, Grammatici Graeci vol. i.3 (Hildesheim, reprint 1979)
S e n e c a
 Epistulae Morales
Reynolds, L.D. (OCT, 1965)  L. Annaei Senecae ad Lucilium Epistulae Morales, 2 vols. (Oxford) Dialogi
Reynolds, L.D. (OCT, 1977)  L. Annaei Senecae Dialogorum libri duodecim (Oxford) S e x t u s   E m p i r i c u s
 Adversus Mathematicos
Mutschmann, H. & Mau, J. (Teubner,1955-61)  Sexti Empirici Opera, vols. ii & iii (Leipzig)
 Pyrrhonei Hypotyposes
Mutschmann, H. & Mau, J. (Teubner, 1954-62)  Sexti Empirici Opera, vol. i (Leipzig) S i m p l i c i u s
 In Aristotelis De Caelo commentaria
Heiberg, J.L. (1894), in  CAG, vol. vii (Berlin)
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
818
 Editions of sources and fragments
 In Aristotelis Categorias commentarium
Kalbfleisch, K. (1907), in  CAG, vol. viii (Berlin)
 In Libros Aristotelis De Anima commentaria
Hayduck, M. (1882), in  CAG, vol. xi (Berlin)
 In Aristotelis Physica commentaria
Diels, H. (1882-95), in  CAG  vols. ix & x (Berlin) S o t i o n
Fragments in Wehrli, F. (19692)  Sotion, Die Schule des Aristoteles, suppl.vol.2 (Basle & Stuttgart)
S t e p h a n u s
 In Librum Aristotelis De Interpretatione commentarium
Hayduck, M. (1885), in  CAG  vol. xviii.3 (Berlin)
S t o b a e u s
 Eclogae
Wachsmuth, C. (1884)  Ioannis Stobaei Anthologii libri duo priores qui inscribi solent Eclogae physicae et ethicae, 2 vols. (Berlin, reprint Zürich 1974) Florilegium
Hense, O. (1894-1923)  Ioannis Stobaei Anthologium, Bol. 3.  Liber III, Bol. 4-5,  Liber IV; Appendix, indicem auctorum in  tertio et quarto libro laudatorum continens (Berlin, reprint Zürich 1974)
S t r a b o
 Geography
Meineke, A. (Teubner, 1852-3)  Strabonis Geographica, 3 vols. (Leipzig, reprint 1915-25) Aujac, G, Lasserre, F. & Baladié, R. (Budé, 1966-)  Strabon: Géographie, 9 vols. to date (books 1-12) (Paris)
Aly, W., revised by Kirsten, E. & Lapp, F. (1968-72)  Strabonis Geographica, books 1-6, 2
vols. (Bonn)
S t r a t o
Fragments in Wehrli, F. (19692)  Straton von Lampsakos,  Die Schule des Aristoteles, vol. v (Basle & Stuttgart)
See also Gottschalk, H.B. (1965)  Strato of Lampsacus: some texts (Leeds) S u d a
Adler, A. (1928-38)  Suidae Lexicon,  Lexicographi Graeci, vols. i-v (Stuttgart, reprint 1971)
S y r i a n u s
 In Aristotelis Metaphysica commentaria
Kroll, G. (1902), in  CAG,  vol.vi.1 (Berlin)
Ta t i a n
 Adversus Graecos
Whittaker, M. (1982)  Tatian: Oratio ad Graecos and fragments (Oxford) Te r t u l l i a n
 De Anima
Waszink, J. H. (1947)  Tertullianus: De Anima (Amsterdam) Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
 Editions of sources and fragments
819
Th e m i s t i u s
 Orationes
Schenkl, H., revised by Downey, G. & Norman, A.F. (Teubner, 1965-74) Themistii Orationes quae supersunt, 3 vols. (Leipzig)
 In Aristotelis Physica paraphrasis
Schenkl, H. (190 0), in  CAG, vol.v.2 (Berlin)
Th e o n   o f   A l e x a n d r i a
 Progymnasmata
Spengel, L. (1854), in  Rhetores Graeci, vol. 2 (Frankfurt, reprint 1966) 59-130
Th e o n   o f   S m y r n a
 Expositio Rerum Mathematicarum
Hiller, E. (Teubner, 1878)  Theonis Smyrnaei philosophi platonici Expositio rerum mathematicarum ad legendum Platonem utilium (Leipzig)
Th e o p h r a s t u s
Fragments in Fortenbaugh, W. W., Huby, P. M., Sharples, R. W. & Gutas, D. (1992) Theophrastus of Eresus: Sources for his Life, Writings, Thought and Influence, 2 vols. 
(Leiden)
Ti m o n   o f   P h l i u s
Fragments in Lloyd-Jones, H. & Parsons, P. (1981)  Supplementum Hellenisticum (Berlin) 368-95
Va r r o
 De Lingua Latina
Goetz, G. & Schoell, F. (1910)  M. Terenti Varronis De Lingua Latina quae supersunt (Leipzig)
 Saturae Menippeae
Astbury, R. (Teubner, 1985)  M. Terenti Varronis Saturarum Menippearum Fragmenta (Leipzig)
Xe n o c r a t e s
Fragments in Isnardi Parente, M. (1982)  Senocrate & Ermodoro: Frammenti,  La scuola di Platone 3 (Naples)
Z e n o   o f   S i d o n
Angeli, A. & Colaizzo, M. (1979) 'I frammenti di Zenone Sidonio',  Cronache Ercolanesi 9, 47-113
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
 Abbreviations
This list contains the abbreviations used in this volume to refer to ancient authors and their works, and to collections of fragments. In the case of authors of a single work references, as a rule, are by author's name only. For modern editions of the most important works, see the the List of Editions elsewhere in this volume. 
Achilles
 Isag. 
 Introductio in Aratum
Aët. 
Aëtius  Placita
Alcin. 
Alcinous  Didaskalikos
Alex. 
Alexander of Aphrodias
 APr. 
 In Aristotelis Analyticorum priorum librum I commentarium
 Mant. 
 De anima libri Mantissa
 de Sens. 
 In librum De sensu commentarium
 Fat. 
 De fato
 Metaph. 
 In Aristotelis Metaphysica commentarium
 Mixt. 
 De mixtione
 SE
 In Aristotelis Sophisticos elenchos commentarium
 Top. 
 In Aristotelis Topicorum libros octo commentaria
Ammon. 
Ammonius
 Int. 
 In Aristotelis De interpretatione commentarius
[Ammon.]
Pseudo-Ammonius
 APr. 
 In Analytica Priora Commentarius
[Andronic.]
Pseudo-Andronicus
 Pass. 
 De passionibus
Anon. 
 In Tht. 
 Anonymi commentarius in Platonis Theaetetum
Anon. 
 In SE
 Anonymi in Aristotelis In Sophisticos elenchos paraphrasis Anon. 
 Int. 
 Anonymi in Aristotelis De interpretatione commentaria
Anon. Lond. Anonymus Londinensis
Anon. 
 Proleg. in Plat. Phil. Prolegomena in Platonis Philosophiam Anon. 
 Proleg. Hermog. Stat. Prolegomena in Hermogenis De statibus
[820]
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
 Abbreviations
821
Ap. Dysc. 
Apollonius Dyscolus
 Adv. 
 De adverbiis
 Conj. 
 De conjunctionibus
 Pron. 
 De pronominibus
 Synt. 
 De syntaxi
Apoll. Perg. 
Apollonius of Perge  Conica
Apul. 
Apuleius
 Int. 
 De Interpretatione
Ar. Did. 
Arius Didymus
Arist. 
Aristoteles
 de An. 
 De Anima
 Phys. 
 Physica
 EN
 Ethica Nicomachea
 Int. 
 De Interpretatione
 Metaph. 
 Metaphysica
 Rhet. 
 Rhetorica
 Cael. 
 De Caelo
 Polit. 
 Politica
[Arist.]
Pseudo-Aristoteles
 Lin. Insec. 
 De lineis insecabilibus
 Mund. 
 De Mundo
Arr. 
Arrianus
 An. 
 Anabasis
Athenaeus
 Deipnosophistae
Aug. 
Augustinus
 Dial. 
 De dialectica
 Ep. 
 Epistulae
 Acad. 
 Contra academicos
 CD
 De civitate dei
Boeth. 
Boethius
 Cic. Top. 
 In Ciceronis Topica
 Hypp. Syll. De hypotheticis syllogismis
 Int. 
 De Interpretatione
Cael. Aurel. 
Caelius Aurelianus
 Acut. 
 Morb. 
 De acutis morbi⫽ Celerum sive acutarum passionum libri Calcid. 
Calcidius
 In Tim. 
 In Timaeum
Cassiod. 
Cassiodorus
 Inst. 
 Institutiones
Cels. 
Celsus
 Med. 
 De medicina
Cens. 
Censorinus  De die natali
Charis. 
Charisius
 Ars gram. 
 Ars Grammatica
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
822
 Abbreviations
Choerob. 
Choeroboscus
 Can. 
 Prolegomena et scholia in Theodosii Alexandrini canones isagogicos de flexione nominum et verborum
Cicero
 Ac. 
 Academica
 Div. 
 De divinatione
 Fat. 
 De fato
 Fin. 
 De finibus
 Leg. 
 De legibus
 ND
 De natura deorum
 O◊. 
 De o√ciis
 De orat. 
 De oratore
 Parad. 
 Paradoxa Stoicorum
 Rep. 
 De republica
 Tim. 
 Timaeus
 Top. 
 Topica
 Tusc. 
 Tusculanae disputationes
[Cic.]
Pseudo-Cicero
 Rhet. Her.  Rhetorica ad Herennium
Clem. 
Clemens Alexandrinus
 Protr. 
 Protrepticus
 Strom. 
 Stromateis
Cleom. 
Cleomedes
 Cael. 
 Caelestia
D. Chr. 
Dio Chrysostomus
 Or. 
 Orationes
D.H. 
Dionysius Halicarnassensis
 Comp. 
 De compositione verborum
 Dem. 
 De Demosthene
 Lys. 
 De Lysia
 Pomp. 
 Epistula ad Pompeium Geminum
 Th. 
 De Thucydide
D.L. 
Diogenes Laërtius
David
 Prol. 
 Prolegomena philosophiae
Demetr. Lac. Demetrius of Laconia
Dexipp. 
Dexippus
 Cat. 
 In Aristotelis Categorias commentarium
Diog. Oen. 
Diogenes of Oenoanda
Elias
 APr. 
 In Aristotelis Analytica priora commentaria
 Cat. 
 In Aristotelis Categorias commentaria
 Porph. 
 In Porphyrii Isagogen commentaria
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
 Abbreviations
823
Epic. 
Epicurus
 Ep. Hdt. 
 Epistula ad Herodotum
 Ep. Men. 
 Epistula ad Menoeceum
 Ep. Pyth. 
 Epistula ad Pythoclem
 KD 
 Kyriai doxai
 Sent.Vat. 
 Sententiae Vaticanae
 Fr. 
 Fragmenta
Epict. 
Epictetus
 Diss. 
 Dissertationes
 Ench. 
 Enchiridion
Epiph. 
Epiphanius
 Adv. Haer. Adversus haereses (⫽ Panarion)
 Etym. Magn. 
 Etymologicum Magnum
Euc. 
Euclides
 El. 
 Elementa
Eudem. 
Eudemus
Eus. 
Eusebius
 HE
 Historia ecclesiastica
 PE
 Praeparatio evangelica
 FDS
K.-H. Hülser (ed.),  Fragmente zur Dialektik der Stoiker, 4 vols., Stuttgart 1987-1988
Gal. 
Galenus
 AA
 De anatomicis administrationibus
 Adv. Jul. 
 Adversus Julianum
 A◊. Dig. 
 De propriorum animi cuiuslibet a◊ectuum dignotione et curatione Art. Sang. An in arteriis natura sanguis contineatur
 At. Bil. 
 De atra bile
 Caus. Puls.  De causis pulsuum
 CC 
 De causis contentivis
 Comp. Med. Loc. De compositione medicamentorum secundum locos CP 
 De causis procatarcticis
 Di◊. Puls.  De di◊erentiis pulsuum
 Dig. Puls.  De dignoscendis pulsibus
 Foet. Form. De foetuum formatione
 Hipp. Aph. In Hippocratis Aphorismos
 Hipp. O◊. Med. In Hippocratis De o√cina medici
 Inst. Log. 
 Institutio logica
 Lib. Prop. 
 De libris propriis
 Loc. A◊. 
 De locis a◊ectis
 Med. Exp
 De experientia medica
 MM
 De methodo medendi
 Nat. Fac. 
 De naturalibus facultatibus
 Pecc. Dig. 
 De animi cuiuslibet peccatorum dignotione et curatione
 PHP
 De placitis Hippocratis et Platonis
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
824
 Abbreviations
 Plen. 
 De plenitudine
 Praes. Puls. De praesagitione ex pulsibus
 SI 
 De sectis ingredientibus
 Soph. 
 De sophismatis
 Subf. Empir. Subfiguratio empirica
 Syn. Puls. 
 Synopsis librorum suorum de pulsibus
 UP
 De usu Partium
 Ven. Sect. Er. De venae sectione adversus Erasistratum
 Ven. Sect. Er. Rom. De venae sectione adversus Erasistrateos Romae Degentes
[Gal.]
Pseudo-Galenus
 Opt. Sect. 
 De optima secta ad Thrasybulum liber
 Def. Med. 
 Definitiones medicae
 Int. 
 Introductio seu medicus
 Qual. Incorp. Quod qualitates incorporeae sint
Gell. 
Aulus Gellius  Noctes Atticae
Greg. Thaum. Gregorius Thaumaturgus
 Or. Pan. 
 In Origenem oratio panegyrica
[Hesych.]
Pseudo-Hesychius
 Vita Arist. Vita Aristotelis
Hierocl. 
Hierocles
 El. Eth. 
 Elementa ethica
Hipp. 
Hippolytus
 Ref. 
 Refutatio omnium haeresium
 Philos. 
 Philosophumena (⫽Book I of  Ref.)
Hippob. 
Hippobotus ( ap.  D. L.)
Hor. 
Horatius
 Ars
 Ars poetica
Lact. 
Lactantius
 Inst. 
 Institutiones divinae
Luc. 
Lucianus
 Symp. 
 Symposium
 Vit. Auc. 
 Vitarum auctio
 Alex. 
 Alexander
[Luc.]
Pseudo-Lucianus
 Macr. 
 Macrobii
Lucr. 
Lucretius  De rerum natura
Macr. 
Macrobius
 Sat. 
 Saturnalia
Marc. 
Aelius Marcianus  Institutiones
Marc. Aurel. Marcus Aurelius  Meditationes (⫽ Ad se ipsum libri XII) Nemes. 
Nemesius
 Nat. Hom. De natura hominis
Numen. 
Numenius
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
 Abbreviations
825
Orig. 
Origenes
 Cels. 
 Contra Celsum
 Princ. 
 De principiis
 Sel. in Ps. 
 Selecta in psalmos
Phil. 
Philo
 Agr. 
 De agricultura
 Aet. 
 De aeternitate mundi
 Cher. 
 De Cherubim
 Congr. 
 De congressu eruditionis gratia
 Prov. 
 De providentia
 Leg. 
 Legum allegoriae
 QG
 Quaestiones et solutiones in Genesim
Phld. 
Philodemus
 Ad Cont. 
 Ad contubernales
 Mus. 
 De musica
 De piet. 
 De pietate
 Rhet. 
 De rhetorica
 Sign. 
 De signis
 Stoic. 
 De Stoicis
 Stoic. Hist. De Stoicorum Historia (⫽ Index Stoicorum) Acad. Hist. Academicorum Historia (⫽ Index Academicorum) Philostratus
 VS 
 Vitae sophistarum
Phlp. 
Philoponus
 APr. 
 In Aristotelis Analytica priora commentaria
 Cat. 
 In Aristotelis Categorias commentarium
 Aet. Mund.  De aeternitate mundi
Phot. 
Photius
 Bibl. 
 Bibliotheca
Plato
 Tim. 
 Timaeus
 Crat. 
 Cratylus
 Phd. 
 Phaedo
 Phdr. 
 Phaedrus
[Plato]
 Epin. 
 Epinomis
Plu. 
Plutarchus
 Col. 
 Adversus Colotem
 Alex. 
 Alexander
 Alex. Virt.  De Alexandri Magni fortuna aut virtute
 Am. Prol. 
 De amore prolis
 An Recte 
 An recte dictum sit latenter esse vivendum
 An. Procr.  De animae procreatione in Timaeo
 Comm. Not. De communibus notitiis adversus Stoicos
 Def. Or. 
 De defectu oraculorum
 De E 
 De E apud Delphos
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
826
 Abbreviations
 Fac. Lun. 
 De facie quae in orbe lunae apparet
 Fr. 
 Fragmenta
 Gryll. 
 Gryllus
 Mar. 
 Marius
 Non Posse  Non posse suaviter vivi secundum Epicurum
 Poet. Aud.  Quomodo adolescens poetas audire debeat
 Praec. Ger. Reip. Praecepta gerendae reipublicae
 Quaest. Conv. Quaestiones convivales
 Stoic. Rep.  De Stoicorum repugnantiis
 Soll. 
 De sollertia animalium
 Sull. 
 Sulla
 Tranq. An.  De tranquillitate animae
 Virt. Mor. 
 De virtute morali
 Virt. Prof.  Quomodo quis suos in virtute sentiat profectus
[Plu.] 
Pseudo-Plutarchus
 Plac. 
 Placita philosophorum
 Fat. 
 De Fato
Plb. 
Polybius  Historiae
Porph. 
Porphyrius
 Abst 
 De abstinentia
 Cat. 
 In Aristotelis Categorias commentarium
 Fr. 
 Fragmenta
 Marc. 
 Ad Marcellam
 Plot. 
 Vita Plotini
 VP 
 Vita Pythagorae
Posidon. 
Posidonius
Priscian. 
Priscianus
 Inst. Gramm. Institutiones Grammaticae
Procl. 
Proclus
 Eucl. 
 In primum Euclidis elementorum librum commentarii
 Rep. 
 In Platonis Rempublicam commentarii
 Tim. 
 In Platonis Timaeum commentaria
 TP 
 Theologia platonica
Quint. 
Quintilianus
 Inst. 
 Institutiones oratoriae
ΣAphthon. 
Scholia on Aphthonius
ΣArist.  Top. Scholia on Aristotelis  Topica
ΣDThrax
Scholia on Dionysius Thrax
Sen. 
Seneca
 Ben. 
 De beneficiis
 Ep. 
 Epistulae
 Tranq. An.  De tranquillitate animae
S.E. 
Sextus Empiricus
 M
 Adversus mathematicos
 PH 
 Pyrrhonei hypotyposes
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
 Abbreviations
827
Simp. 
Simplicius
 Cael. 
 In Aristotelis De caelo commentaria
 Cat. 
 In Aristotelis Categorias commentarium
 de An. 
 In libros Aristotelis De anima commentaria
 Ph. 
 In Aristotelis Physica commentaria
 SSR
G. Giannantoni (ed.),  Socratis et Socraticorum Reliquiae, 4 vols., Naples 1990
Steph. 
Stephanus
 Int. 
 In librum Aristotelis De interpretatione commentarium
Stob. 
Stobaeus
 Ecl. 
 Eclogae
 Flor. 
 Florilegium
Syr. 
Syrianus
 Metaph. 
 In Aristotelis Metaphysica commentaria
 SVF
J. Von Arnim (ed.),  Stoicorum veterum fragmenta, 3 vols., Leipzig 1903-1905; vol. 4, indexes by M. Adler, Leipzig 1924
Tat. 
Tatianus
 Adv. Graec.  Adversus Graecos⫽ Oratio ad Graecos
Tert. 
Tertullianus
 An. 
 De anima
Them. 
Themistius
 Or. 
 Orationes
 Phys. 
 In Aristotelis Physica paraphrasis
Theon 
Theon of Alexandria
 Prog. 
 Progymnasmata
Theon Sm. 
Theon of Smyrna  Expositio rerum mathematicarum ad legendum Platonem utilium
Thphr. 
Theophrastus
Us. 
H. Usener,  Epicurea, Leipzig 1887 (repr. Stuttgart 1966) Val. 
Max. Valerius Maximus
Varro
 LL 
 De lingua latina
 Sat. Men.  Saturae Menippeae
Xenocr. 
Xenocrates
Xen. 
Xenophon
 Mem. 
 Memorabilia
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
 Bibliography
Journal abbreviations are as in  L'Année Philologique
AA. VV. (1983) ΣΥΖΗΤΗΣΙΣ -  Studi sull'epicureismo greco e romano o◊erti a Marcello Gigante, 2 vols. (Naples)
Aalders, G. J. D. (1968)  Die Theorie der gemischten Verfassung im Altertum (Amsterdam) Aalders, G. J. D. (1975)  Political Thought in Hellenistic Times (Amsterdam) Ackrill, J. L. (1963)  Aristotle's 'Categories' and 'De Interpretatione', Clarendon Aristotle Series (Oxford; repr. w. corr. 1966)
Ackroyd, P. R. (1970) 'The Old Testament in the making', in Ackroyd & Evans (1970) 67-113
Ackroyd, P. R. & Evans, C. F., edd. (1970)  The Cambridge History of the Bible, vol. i: From the Beginnings to Jerome (Cambridge)
Alberti, A., ed. (1990)  Logica, mente e persona: Studi sulla filosofia antica (Florence) Alberti, A. (1995) 'The Epicurean theory of law and justice', in Laks & Schofield (1995) 161-90
Alfieri, V. E. (1936)  Gli Atomisti — Frammenti e testimonianze (Bari) Algra, K. A. (1988) 'The early Stoics on the immobility and coherence of the cosmos', Phronesis  33, 155-80
Algra, K. A. (1992) ' ''Place", in context: on Theophrastus fr. 21 and 22 Wimmer', in Fortenbaugh  et al. (1992) 141-65
Algra, K. A. (1993) 'Posidonius' conception of the extra-cosmic void: the evidence and the arguments',  Mnemosyne  46, 473-505
Algra, K. A. (1995)  Concepts of Space in Greek Thought, PhA 65 (Leiden) Algra, K. A. (1997) 'Chrysippus, Carneades, Cicero: The ethical  divisiones  in Cicero's Lucullus', in Inwood & Mansfeld (1997) 107-40
Algra, K. A., Horst, P. W. van der & Runia, D. T., edd. (1996)  Polyhistor: Studies in the History and Historiography of Greek Philosophy Presented to Jaap Mansfeld on his 60th Birthday, PhA 72 (Leiden)
Algra, K. A., Koenen, M. H. & Schrijvers, P. H., edd. (1997)  Lucretius and his Intellectual Background (Amsterdam)
Allen, J. (1993) 'Pyrrhonism and medical empiricism: Sextus Empiricus on evidence and inference', in Haase, W., ed.,  ANRW  ii 37.1, 646-90
Allen, J. (1994) 'Academic probabilism and Stoic epistemology',  CQ  44, 85-113
Alpers, K. (1968) 'Epikurs Geburtstag',  MH  25, 48-51
Amsler, M. (1989)  Etymology and Grammatical Discourse in Late Antiquity and the Early Middle Ages (Amsterdam)
[828]
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
 Bibliography
829
Angeli, A. (1981) 'I frammenti di Idomeneo di Lampsaco',  CErc  ii, 41-101
Angeli, A. (1986) ' Compendi,  eklogai,  tetrapharmakos: due capitoli di dissenso nell'Epicureismo',  CErc  16, 53-66
Angeli, A., ed. (1988a) Filodemo:  Agli amici di scuola ( PHerc.  10 05), La scuola di Epicuro 7 (Naples)
Angeli, A. (1988b) 'La scuola epicurea di Lampsaco nel  PHerc. 176 (Fr. 5 Coll. i, iv, viii-xxiii)',  CErc  18, 27-51
Angeli, A. (1993) 'Frammenti di lettere di Epicuro nei papiri d'Ercolano',  CErc  23, 11-27
Angeli, A. & Colaizzo, M. (1979) 'I frammenti di Zenone Sidonio',  CErc  9, 47-133
Angeli, A. & Dorandi, T. (1987) 'Il pensiero matematico di Demetrio Lacone',  CErc  17, 89-103
Annas, J. E. (1977) 'Plato and Aristotle on friendship and altruism',  Mind  86, 532-54
Annas, J. E. (1980a) 'Aristotle on pleasure and goodness', in Rorty, A. O., ed.,  Essays on Aristotle's Ethics (Berkeley) 285-99
Annas, J. E. (1980b) 'Truth and knowledge', in Schofield  et al. (1980a) 84-104
Annas, J. E. (1986) 'Doing without objective values: ancient and modern strategies', in Schofield & Striker (1986a) 3-29
Annas, J. E. (1987) 'Epicurus on pleasure and happiness',  Philosophical Topics  15, 5-21
Annas, J. E. (1988a) 'Naturalism in Greek ethics: Aristotle and after', in Cleary & Shartin (1988) 149-71
Annas, J.E. (1988b) 'The heirs of Socrates',  Phronesis  33, 10 0-12
Annas, J.E. (1989a) 'Cicero on Stoic moral philosophy and private property', in Gri√n
& Barnes (1989) 151-73
Annas, J. (1989b) 'Epicurean emotions',  GRBS  30, 145-64
Annas, J. E. (1990a) 'Platon le sceptique',  RMM  95, 267-91
Annas, J. E. (1990b) 'Stoic epistemology', in Everson (1990a) 184-203
Annas, J. E. (1991) 'Epicurus' philosophy of mind', in Everson (1991a) 84-101
Annas, J. E. (1992a)  Hellenistic Philosophy of Mind, Hellenistic culture and society 8
(Berkeley)
Annas, J. E. (1992b) 'Sextus Empiricus and the Peripatetics',  Elenchos  13, 201-32
Annas, J. E. (1992c) 'Plato the Sceptic',  OSAP  suppl. vol., 43-72
Annas, J. E. (1993a)  The Morality of Happiness (New York/Oxford) Annas, J. E. (1993b) 'Epicurus on agency', in Brunschwig & Nussbaum (1993) 53-71
Annas, J. E. & Barnes, J. (1985)  The Modes of Scepticism: Ancient Texts and Modern Interpretations (Cambridge)
Annas, J. E. & Barnes, J., trans. (1994) Sextus Empiricus:  Outlines of Scepticism (Cambridge)
Anscombe, G. E. M. (1956) 'Aristotle and the sea battle',  Mind  65; repr. in  The Collected Philosophical Papers of G. E. M. Anscombe, vol. i: From Parmenides to Wittgenstein (Oxford 1981) 44-55
Anton, J. P. & Preuss, A., edd. (1983)  Essays in Ancient Greek Philosophy, vol. ii (Albany) Antoniadis, E. (1916)  Aristipp und die Kyrenaiker (Göttingen) Apelt, O. (1891)  Beiträge zur Geschichte der griechischen Philosophie (Leipzig) Appuhn, Ch., ed. (1952) Cicéron:  De la divination - Du destin - Académiques (Paris) Arnim, J. von, ed. (1903-24)  Stoicorum Veterum Fragmenta, Bd. i-iii; Bd. iv, indices by Adler, M. (Leipzig, later repr.)
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
830
 Bibliography
Arnim, J. von (1926) 'Arius Didymus' Abriß der peripatetischen Ethik',  SAWW, phil.-
hist. Kl. 204.3
Arrighetti, G., ed. (1973) Epicuro:  Opere,  2nd edn, Biblioteca di cultura filosofica 41
(Turin)
Arrighetti, G. (1978) 'Philia e physiologia: i fondamenti dell'amicizia epicurea',  MD  1, 49-63
Arrighetti, G. (1980) 'Aporie aristoteliche ed etica epicurea',  MD  5, 9-26
Arrighetti, G. (1984) 'Devoir et plaisir chez Epicure', in Harmatta, J., ed.  Proceedings of the VIIth Congress of the International Federation of the Societies of Classical Studies (Budapest) 385-91
Arrighetti, G. (1987)  Poeti, eruditi e biografi, Momenti della riflessione dei Greci sulla letteratura, Biblioteca di studi antichi 52 (Pisa)
Arrighetti, G. (1994) 'Riflessione sulla letteratura e biografia presso i Greci', in Montanari (1994)
Arthur, E. P. (1983) 'Stoic analysis of the mind's reactions to presentations',  Hermes  iii 1983, 69-78
Asmis, E. (1984)  Epicurus' Scientific Method, Cornell studies in classical philology 42
(Ithaca/London)
Asmis, E. (1990a) 'Free action and the swerve',  OSAP  8, 275-91
Asmis, E. (1990b) 'Philodemus' Epicureanism', in Haase, W., ed.,  ANRW  ii 36. 4
(Berlin/New York) 2369-406
Asmis, E. (1990c) 'The poetic theory of the Stoic "Aristo"',  Apeiron  23, 147-201
Asmis, E. (1992) 'An Epicurean survey of poetic theories (Philodemus  On Poems  5, cols. 
26-36)',  CQ  42, 395-415
Asmis, E. (1995) 'Epicurean Semiotics', in: Manetti (1995) 155-85. 
Astin, A. E. (1967)  Scipio Aemilianus (Oxford)
Atherton, C. (1988) 'Hand over fist: the failure of Stoic rhetoric',  CQ  38, 392-427
Atherton, C. (1993)  The Stoics on Ambiguity (Cambridge) Atkins, E. M. (1990) '"Domina et regina virtutum": justice and  societas  in the  De O√ciis',  Phronesis  35, 258-89
Aubenque, P. (1980)  Concepts et Catégories dans la Pensée Antique (Paris) Aune, D. E (1987)  The New Testament in its Literary Environment, Library of Early Christianity 8 (Philadelphia)
Ausland, H. W. (1989) 'On the moral origin of the Pyrrhonian philosophy',  Elenchos  10, 359-434
Avotins, I. (1983) 'On some Epicurean and Lucretian arguments for the infinity of the universe',  CQ  33, 421-7
Ax, W. (1986)  Laut, Stimme und Sprache: Studien zu drei Grundbegri◊en der antiken Sprachtheorie, Hypomnemata 84 (Göttingen)
Ax, W. (1987) 'Quadripertita ratio: Bemerkungen zur Geschichte eines aktuellen Kategoriensystem', in Taylor (1987a) 17-40
Ax, W. (1991) 'Sprache als Gegenstand der alexandrinischen und pergamenischen Philologie', in Schmitter (1991) 275-301
Babut, D. (1969)  Plutarque et le Stoïcisme, Publications de l'Université de Lyon (Paris) Babut, D. (1974)  La Religion des Philosophes Grecs, de Thales aux Stoiciens (Paris) Badawi, A. (1971)  Commentaires sur Aristote perdus en grec et autres épîtres (Beirut) Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
 Bibliography
831
Badawi, A. (1987 (1968))  La Transmission de la Philosophie Grecque au Monde Arabe, Etudes de philosophie medievale 56 (Paris)
Badian, E. (1958) 'Alexander the Great and the unity of mankind',  Historia  7, 425-44
Bailey, C. (1926)  Epicurus. The Extant Remains (Oxford) Bailey, C. (1928)  The Greek Atomists and Epicurus (Oxford, various repr.) Baldassarri, M. (1984)  Introduzione alla Logica Stoica, La logica stoica: testimonianze e frammenti (Como)
Baldry, H. C. (1959) 'Zeno's ideal state',  JHS  79, 3-15
Baldry, H. C. (1965)  The Unity of Mankind in Greek Thought (Cambridge) Baratin, M. (1989)  La Naissance de la Syntaxe à Rome (Paris) Baratin, M. (1991) 'Aperçu de la linguistique stoïcienne', in Schmitter (1991) 193-216
Baratin, M. & Desbordes, F. (1987) 'La "troisième partie" de l'ars grammatica', in Taylor (1987a) 41-66
Barigazzi, A. (1969) 'Epicure et le scepticisme',  Actes du VIIIe Congrès de l'Association Guillaume Budé (Paris) 286-93
Barigazzi, A. (1983) 'Sul concetto epicureo della sicurezza esterna', in AA. VV. (1983) 73-92
Barker, A. (1989)  Greek Musical Writings, vol. ii: Harmonic and Acoustic Theory (Cambridge)
Barker, E. (1956)  From Alexander to Constantine. Passages and Documents Illustrating the History of Social and Political Ideas, 336 bc-ad 337 (Oxford) Barnes, J. (1978) 'La doctrine du retour éternel', in Brunschwig (1978a) 3-20
Barnes, J. (1979)  The Presocratic Philosophers, 2 vols. (London/New York; repr. 1982 in one vol.)
Barnes, J. (1980) 'Proof destroyed', in Schofield  et al. (1980a) 161-81
Barnes, J. (1982b) 'Medicine, experience and logic', in Barnes, J.  et al. (1982a) 24-68
Barnes, J. (1982c) 'The beliefs of a Pyrrhonist',  PCPS  28, 1-28, also in  Elenchos  4 (1983) 5-43
Barnes, J. (1983a) 'Ancient skepticism and causation', in Burnyeat (1983) 149-203
Barnes, J. (1983b) 'Terms and sentences',  PBA  69, 279-326
Barnes, J. (1985) 'Theophrastus and hypothetical syllogistic', in Wiesner (1985-87) i, 557-76, also in Fortenbaugh  et al. (1985) 125-41
Barnes, J. (1986a) 'Peripatetic negations',  OSAP  4, 201-14
Barnes, J. (1986b) 'The  Logical Investigations  of Chrysippus',  Wissenschaftskolleg Jahrbuch 1984/5 (Berlin) 19-29
Barnes, J. (1986c) 'Diogene Laerzio e il Pirronismo', in Giannantoni (1986a) 383-427
Barnes, J. (1986d) 'Is rhetoric an art?',  Darg Newsletter  ii.2, 2-22
Barnes, J. (1987) 'An Aristotelian way with Scepticism', in Matthen (1987) 51-76
Barnes, J. (1988b) 'Bits and pieces', in Barnes & Mignucci (1988a) 223-94
Barnes, J. (1988c) 'Epicurean signs',  OSAP  suppl. vol., 91-134
Barnes, J. (1989a) 'The size of the sun in antiquity',  ACD  25, 29-41
Barnes, J. (1989b) (rev. Hülser 1987, vols. ii-iv)  CR  39, 263-4
Barnes, J. (1989c) 'Antiochus of Ascalon', in Gri√n & Barnes (1989) 51-96
Barnes, J. (1990a) 'Logical form and logical matter', in Alberti (1990) 7-119
Barnes, J. (1990b)  The Toils of Scepticism (Cambridge) Barnes, J. (1990c) 'Pyrrhonism, belief and causation. Observations on the Scepticism Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
832
 Bibliography
of Sextus Empiricus', in Haase, W., ed.,  ANRW  ii 36.4 (Berlin/New York) 2608-95
Barnes, J. (1991) 'Enseigner la Vertu?',  RPh  116, 571-89
Barnes, J. (1992) 'Diogenes Laertius ix 61-116: The philosophy of Pyrrhonism', in Haase, W., ed.,  ANRW  ii 36.6 (Berlin/New York) 4241-301
Barnes, J. (1993a) '"A third kind of syllogism": Galen and the logic of relations', in Sharples (1993) 172-94
Barnes, J. (1993b) 'Meaning, saying and thinking', in Döring & Ebert (1993) 47-61
Barnes, J. (1993c) (rev. Ebert 1991)  CR  43, 304-6
Barnes, J. (1993d) 'Galen and the utility of logic', in Kollesch & Nickel (1993) 33-52
Barnes, J. (1996a) 'Epicurus: meaning and thinking', in Giannantoni & Gigante (1996), vol. i, 197-220
Barnes, J. (1996b) 'The catalogue of Chrysippus' logical works', in Algra  et al. (1996) 169-84
Barnes, J. (1996c) 'Grammar on Aristotle's terms', in Frede & Striker (1996) Barnes, J. (1997) 'Logic in  Academica  i and the  Lucullus', in Inwood & Mansfeld (1997) 140-60
Barnes, J., Brunschwig, J., Burnyeat, M. & Schofield, M., edd. (1982a)  Science and Speculation: Studies in Hellenistic Theory and Practice (Cambridge/Paris) Barnes, J. & Mignucci, M., edd. (1988a)  Matter and Metaphysics. Fourth Symposium Hellenisticum, Elenchos 14 (Naples)
Barnes, J., Bobzien, S., Flannery, K. & Ierodiakonou, K. (1991)  Alexander of Aphrodisias, On Aristotle  Prior Analytics  1.1-7 (London)
Barwick, K. (1922)  Remmius Palaemon und die römische  ars grammatica, Philologus Suppl. 15, H. 2 (Leipzig; repr. Hildesheim 1967)
Barwick, K. (1957)  Probleme der stoischen Sprachlehre und Rhetorik, Abh. Sächsischen Akad. der Wiss. zu Leipzig, Philol.-hist. Kl. Bd. 49.3 (Berlin) Bastianini, G. & Long, A. A., edd. (1992a)  Hierocles, in  Corpus dei papiri filosofici greci e latini, vol. i, 1** (Florence) 268-451
Bastianini, G. & Long, A. A., edd. (1992b) 'Dopo la nuova edizione degli  Elementi di etica  di Ierocle Stoico (PBerol 9780v)', in  Studi su Codici e Papiri Filosofici. Platone, Aristotele, Ierocle (Florence) 221-47
Bastianini, G. & Sedley, D. N. (1995) 'Commentarium in Platonis  Theaetetum', in Corpus dei papiri filosofici greci e latini, vol. iii (Florence) 227-562
Becker, L. C., ed. (1992a)  Encyclopedia of Ethics, 2 vols. (New York) Becker, L. C., ed. (1992b)  A History of Western Ethics (New York) Becker, O., ed. (1957a)  Zwei Untersuchungen zur antiken Logik, Klassisch-philologische Studien 17 (Wiesbaden)
Becker, O. (1957b) 'Über die vier "Themata" der stoischen Logik', in Becker (1957a) 27-49
Becker, O. (1960) 'Zur Rekonstruktion des "kyrieuon logos" des Diodoros Kronos', in Derbolav, J. & Nicolin, F., edd.,  Erkenntnis und Verantwortung, FS Theodor Litt (Dusseldorf ) 250-63
Behrends, O. (1977) 'Les "veteres" et la nouvelle jurisprudence à la fin de la République',  RD  55, 7-33
Benedetto, V. di (1958/9) 'Dionisio Trace e la  Techne  a lui attribuita',  ASNP  ii 27, 169-210; 28, 87-118
Benedetto, V. di (1990) 'At the origins of Greek grammar',  Glotta  68, 19-39
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
 Bibliography
833
Berger, K. (1984) 'Hellenistische Gattungen im Neuen Testament', in Haase, W., ed., ANRW  ii 25.2 (Berlin/New York) 1031-432
Bernard, P. (1984) 'Le philosophe Anaxarque et le roi Nicocréon de Salamine',  JS  3-49
Bernheim, E. (1908)  Lehrbuch der historischen Methode und der Geschichtsphilosophie, mit Nachweis der wichtigsten Quellen und Hilfsmittel zum Studium der Geschichte, 5th and 6th edn, 2 vols. (Leipzig)
Berrettoni, P. (1989) 'An idol of the school: the aspectual theory of the Stoics',  Rivista di linguistica  1, 33-68
Berryman, S. (1998) 'Euclid and the Sceptic: a paper on vision, doubt, geometry, light and drunkenness',  Phronesis  43, 176-96
Berti, E. (1981) 'La critica allo scetticismo nel IV libro della  Metafisica', in Giannantoni (1981a) i, 61-79
Bett, R. (1989) 'Carneades'  pithanon: a reappraisal of its role and status',  OSAP  7, 59-94
Bett, R. (1990) 'Carneades' distinction between assent and approval',  The Monist  73, 3-20
Bett, R. (1994a) 'What did Pyrrho think about "the nature of the divine and the good"?',  Phronesis  39, 303-37
Bett, R. (1994b) 'Aristocles on Timon on Pyrrho: The text, its logic, and its credibility', OSAP  12, 137-81
Bichler, R. (1983) ' Hellenismus', Geschichte und Problematik eines Epochenbegri◊s (Darmstadt)
Bicknell, P. (1982) 'Melissus' way of seeming ?',  Phronesis  27, 194-201
Bignone, E. (1936)  L'Aristotele Perduto e la Formazione Filosofica di Epicuro, 2 vols. 
(Florence, 2nd enlarged edn by Alfieri, V. E. 1972)
Blank, D. L. (1982)  Ancient Philosophy and Grammar: The Syntax of Apollonius Dyscolus (Chico. Cal.)
Blank, D. L. (1994) 'Diogenes of Babylon and the κριτικοι! in Philodemus: a preliminary suggestion',  CErc  24 (1994) 55-62
Blank, D. L. (1995) 'Philodemus on the technicity of rhetoric', in Obbink (1995) 178-88
Blomqvist, J. (1974) 'Die skeptika des Sextus Empiricus',  GB  2, 7-14
Blum, L. A. (1980)  Friendship, Altruism and Morality (London) Blundell, M. W. (1990) 'Parental nature and Stoic Οι0κει!ωσι',  AncPhil  10, 221-42
Bobzien, S. (1986)  Die stoische Modallogik, Epistemata, Reihe Philosophie 32
(Würzburg)
Bobzien, S. (1993) 'Chrysippus' modal logic and its relation to Philo and Diodorus', in Döring & Ebert (1993) 63-84
Bobzien, S. (1996) 'Stoic syllogistic',  OSAP  14, 133-92
Bobzien, S. (1997a) 'Stoic conceptions of freedom and their relation to ethics', in Sorabji, R., ed.,  Aristotle and After, BICS Suppl., 71-89
Bobzien, S. (1997b) 'The Stoics on hypothesis and hypothetical arguments',  Phronesis 42, 299-312
Bobzien, S. (1998)  Determinism and Freedom in Stoic Philosophy (Oxford) Bobzien, S. (1999) 'Chrysippus' Theory of causes', in Ierodiakonou (1999) 196-242
Bochenski, I. (1947)  La logique de Théophraste, Collectanea Friburgensia, N.S. 32
(Fribourg)
Bodnár, I. (1992) 'Anaximander on the stability of the earth',  Phronesis  37, 336-42
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
834
 Bibliography
Bollack, J., (1969) 'Les maximes de l'amitié', in  Actes du VIIIe Congrès Guillaume Budé (Paris) 221-36
Bollack, J., ed. (1975)  La pensée du plaisir - Epicure:  textes moraux, commentaires (Paris) Bollack, J. & Laks, A., edd. (1976)  Etudes sur l'épicurisme antique, Cahiers de Philologie i (Lille)
Bouché-Leclercq, A. (1899)  L'astrologie grecque (Paris) Boulluec, A. Le (1982) 'Exégèse et polémique antignostique chez Irénée et Clément d'Alexandrie: l'exemple du centon', in Livingstone, E. A., ed.,  Studia Patristica vol. xvii.2 (Oxford/New York) 707-13
Boulluec, A. Le (1994) 'Clément d'Alexandrie', in Goulet (1989-94) ii, 426-31
Boyancé, P. (1936) 'Les méthodes de l'histoire littéraire. Cicéron et son œuvre philosophique',  REL  14, 288-309; repr. in id. (1970)  Etudes sur l'humanisme cicéronien, Collection Latomus 21 (Brussels) 199-221
Boyancé, P. (1962) 'Les preuves stoïciennes de l'existence des dieux d'après Cicéron', Hermes  90, 46-71
Boyancé, P. (1967) (rev. Giusta 1964)  Latomus  26, 246-9
Boys-Stones, G. (1996) 'The ε0πελευστικη! δυ!ναµι in Aristo's psychology of action', Phronesis  41, 75-94
Brancacci, A. (1981) 'La filosofia di Pirrone e le sue relazioni con il cinismo', in Giannantoni (1981a) i, 211-42
Bréhier, E. (1910)  La Théorie des Incorporels dans l'Ancien Stoicisme (Paris; repr. 1962) Bréhier, E. (1914) 'Posidonius d'Apamée théoricien de la géométrie',  REG  27, 44-58; repr. in Bréhier (1955)  Etudes de philosophie antique (Paris) 117-30
Brent, A. (1993) 'Diogenes Laertius and the apostolic succession',  JEH  44, 367-89
Brent, A. (1995)  Hippolytus and the Roman Church in the Third Century: Communities in Tension before the Emergence of a Monarch-Bishop, VChr suppl. 31 (Leiden) Brink, C. O. (1940) 'Peripatos', in  Pauly Wissowa, Realencyclopädie  Suppl. 7, cols. 899-949
Brink, C. O. (1956) 'Theophrastus and Zeno on nature in moral theory',  Phronesis  1, 123-45
Brink, C. O. (1963)  Horace on Poetry, vol. i: Prolegomena to the Literary Epistles (Cambridge and later repr.)
Brochard, V. (1887)  Les sceptiques grecs (Paris; 2nd edn 1923) Brunschwig, J. (1977) 'L'argument d'Epicure sur l'immutabilité du tout', in  Permanence de la philosophie: mélanges o◊erts à Joseph Moreau (Neuchâtel) 127-50; repr. in Brunschwig (1995) 15-42
Brunschwig, J., ed. (1978a)  Les Stoïciens et leur logique. Actes du colloque de Chantilly, 18-22 septembre 1976, Bibliothèque d'histoire de la philosophie (Paris) Brunschwig, J. (1978b) 'Le modèle conjonctif ', in Brunschwig (1978a) 58-86; repr. in Brunschwig (1995) 161-87
Brunschwig, J. (1980) 'Proof defined', in Schofield  et al. (1980a) 125-60
Brunschwig, J. (1984) 'Remarques sur la théorie stoïcienne du nom propre',  HEL  6, 3-19; repr. in Brunschwig (1995) 115-39
Brunschwig, J. (1986) 'The cradle argument in Epicureanism and Stoicism', in Schofield & Striker (1986a) 113-44
Brunschwig, J. (1988a) 'La théorie stoïcienne du genre suprême et l'ontologie platonicienne', in Barnes & Mignucci (1988a) 19-127
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
 Bibliography
835
Brunschwig, J. (1988b) 'Sextus Empiricus on the  krite-rion', in Dillon & Long (1988) 145-75, repr. in Brunschwig (1994a) 224-43
Brunschwig, J. (1990a) 'Le titre des  Indalmoi  de Timon: d'Ulysse à Pyrrhon',  Recherches sur la philosophie et le langage  12, 83-98; repr. in Brunschwig (1995) 271-87
Brunschwig, J. (1990b) 'Sur une façon stoïcienne de ne pas être',  RThPh  122, 389-403; repr. in Brunschwig (1995) 251-68
Brunschwig, J. (1991) 'On a book-title by Chrysippus: on the fact that the ancients admitted dialectic along with demonstrations',  OSAP  suppl. vol., 81-95
Brunschwig, J. (1992) 'Pyrrhon et Philista', in Goulet-Cazé, M.-O., Madec, G., O'Brien, D., edd., ΣΟΦΙΗΣ ΜΑΙΗΤΟΡΕΣ , "Chercheurs de sagesse" , Hommage à Jean Pépin (Paris) 133-46
Brunschwig, J., ed. (1994a)  Papers in Hellenistic Philosophy (Cambridge) Brunschwig, J. (1994b) 'Remarks on the classification of simple propositions in Hellenistic logics', in Brunschwig (1994a) 57-71
Brunschwig, J. (1994c) 'The conjunctive model', in Brunschwig (1994a) 72-91
Brunschwig, J. (1994d) 'Did Diogenes of Babylon invent the ontological argument?', in Brunschwig (1994a) 170-89
Brunschwig, J. (1994e) 'Once again on Eusebius on Aristocles on Timon on Pyrrho', in Brunschwig (1994a) 190-211
Brunschwig, J. (1994f ) 'The Anaxarchus case: an essay on survival',  PBA  81, 59-88
Brunschwig, J. (1995)  Etudes sur les Philosophes Hellénistiques: epicurisme, stoïcisme, scepticisme (Paris)
Brunschwig, J. (1996) 'Le fragment DK 70 B 1 de Métrodore de Chio', in Algra  et al. 
(1996) 21-40
Brunschwig, J. & Nussbaum, M. C., edd. (1993)  Passions and Perceptions: Proceedings of the Fifth Symposium Hellenisticum, Studies in Hellenistic Philosophy of Mind (Cambridge)
Brunt, P. A. (1980) 'On historical fragments and epitomes',  Classical Quarterly  30, 477-94
Burkert, W. (1972) 'Zur geistesgeschichtlichen Einordnung einiger Pseudopythagorica', in  Pseudepigrapha  i, Fondation Hardt 18
(Vandœuvres/Geneva) 25-55
Burkert, W., Gemelli Marciano, L., Matelli, E. & Orelli, L., edd. (1998) Fragmentsammlungen philosophischer Texte der Antike - Le raccolte dei frammenti di filosofi antichi, Aporemata 3 (Göttingen)
Burnyeat, M. (1976) 'Protagoras and self-refutation in later Greek philosophy',  PhR  85, 44-69
Burnyeat, M. F. (1978) 'The upside-down back-to-front sceptic of Lucretius iv 472', Philologus  122, 197-206
Burnyeat, M. F. (1980a (1983)) 'Can the sceptic live his scepticism?', in Schofield  et al. 
(1980a) 20-53; repr. in Burnyeat (1983) 117-48
Burnyeat, M. F. (1980b) 'Tranquillity without a stop: Timon, frag. 68',  CQ  30, 86-93
Burnyeat, M. F. (1981) 'Aristotle on understanding knowledge', in Berti, E., ed.,  Aristotle on Science—The 'Posterior Analytics', Studia Aristotelica 9 (Padua) 97-139
Burnyeat, M. F. (1982a) 'Idealism and Greek philosophy: what Descartes saw and Berkeley missed',  PhR  91, 3-40
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
836
 Bibliography
Burnyeat, M. F. (1982b) 'Gods and heaps', in Schofield & Nussbaum (1982) 315-38
Burnyeat, M. F. (1982c) 'The origins of non-deductive inference', in Barnes  et al. 
(1982a) 193-238
Burnyeat, M. F., ed. (1983)  The Skeptical Tradition, Major Thinkers Series 3 (Berkeley) Burnyeat, M. F. (1984) 'The sceptic in his place and time', in Rorty  et al. (1984) 225-54
Burnyeat, M. F. (1990)  The Theaetetus of Plato (Indianapolis/Cambridge) Burnyeat, M. F. (1997) 'Antipater and self-refutation: elusive arguments in Cicero's Academica', in Inwood & Mansfeld (1997) 277-311
Burridge, R. A. (1992)  What are the Gospels?  A Comparison with Graeco-Roman Biography (Cambridge)
Caizzi,  see  Decleva Caizzi
Calboli Montefusco, L. (1991) 'Die Topik in der Argumentation', in Ueding (1991) 21-34







Calboli, G. (1962)  Studi grammaticali, vol. i (Bologna) Cambiano, G. (1977) 'Il problema dell'esistenza di una scuola Megarica', in Giannantoni, G., ed.,  Scuole socratiche minori e filosofia ellenistica (Bologna) 25-53
Cambiano, G. (1992) 'Scoperta e dimostrazione in Archimede', in Dollo, C., ed., Archimede, Mito Tradizione Scienza (Florence) 21-41
Cameron, A. (1993)  The Greek Anthology from Meleager to Planudes (Oxford) Cameron, H. D. (1987) 'The upside-down cladogram: problems in manuscript a√liation', in Hoenigswald & Wiener (1987) 227-42
Cancik, H. (1984b) 'Die Gattung Evangelium. Das Evangelium des Markus im Rahmen der antiken Historiographie', in Cancik, H., d. (1984a)  Markus-Philologie (Tübingen) 85-113
Canfora, L. (1993)  Vita di Lucrezio (Palermo)
Capasso, M. (1980) 'Note laerziane',  Elenchos  1, 161-3
Capasso, M. (1981) 'I  Problemi di filologia filosofica  di Mario Untersteiner',  Elenchos  2, 375-404
Capasso, M. (1982) 'Polistrato uditore di Epicuro?',  CErc  12, 5-12
Capasso, M. (1987)  Comunità senza rivolta, quattro saggi sull'epicureismo, Saggi Bibliopolis 26 (Naples)
Capasso, M., ed. (1988a) Carneisco:  Il Secondo libro del Filista (PHerc. 1027) (Naples) Capasso, M. (1988b) 'Gli epicurei e il potere della memoria ( PHerc.  1041 e 1040)', in Mandilaras, B. G.  et al. , edd.,  Proceedings of the XVIIIth International Congress of Papyrology  i (Athens) 257-70
Capasso, M. (1989) 'Primo supplemento al Catalogo dei papiri Ercolanesi',  CErc  19, 193-264
Casanova, A., ed. (1984)  I frammenti di Diogene d'Enoanda, Studi e testi 6 (Florence) Casertano, G. (1983)  Il piacere, l'amore e la morte nelle dottrine dei presocratici I: Il piacere e il desiderio (Naples)
Cavallo, G. (1983)  Libri scritture scribi a Ercolano, CErc, suppl. 1 (Naples) Cavallo, G. (1984) 'I rotoli di Ercolano come prodotti scritti. Quattro riflessioni', Scrittura e Civiltà  8, 5-30
Cavallo, G. (1989) 'Libro e cultura scritta', in Momigliano, A. & Schiavone, A., edd., Storia di Roma, vol. 4, Caratteri e morfologia (Turin) 694-734
Cavallo, G. (1994) 'Discorsi sul libro', in Cambiano, G., Canfora, L. & Lanza, D.,  Lo spazio letterario della Grecia antica  vol. i,  La produzione e la circolazione del testo, T. 3, I Greci e Roma (Rome) 613-39
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
 Bibliography
837
Centrone, B. (1990)  Pseudopythagorica Ethica, i trattati morali di Archita, Metopo,Teage, Eurifamo, Elenchos 17 (Naples)
Chadwick, H. (1959)  The Sentences of Sextus. A Contribution to the History of Early Christian Ethics (Cambridge)
Charles, D. (1992) 'Supervenience, composition and physicalism', in Charles, D. & Lennon, K., edd.,  Reduction, Explanation and Realism (Oxford) 265-96
Cherniss, H. F. (1976) Plutarch's  Moralia XIII, part ii, LCL (Cambridge, Mass./London) Chilton, C. W. (1960) 'Did Epicurus approve of marriage? A study of Diogenes Laertius x, 119',  Phronesis  5, 71-74
Chilton, C. W. (1971) Diogenes of Oenoanda:  The Fragments. A Translation and Commentary (London/New York/Toronto)
Cichorius, C. (1908) 'Panaitios und die attische Stoikerinschrift',  RhM  63, 197-223
Classen, C. J. (1958) 'Aristippos',  Hermes  86, 182-92
Classen, C. J., ed. (1983) R. Philippson,  Studien zu Epikur und den Epikureern, Olms Studien 17 (Hildesheim)
Classen, C. J. (1992) 'L'esposizione dei Sofisti e della Sofistica in Sesto Empirico', Elenchos  13, 57-79
Clay, D. (1972) 'Epicurus'  Kuria doxa  xvii',  GRBS  13, 59-66
Clay, D. (1973) 'Epicurus' last will and testament',  AGPh  55, 252-80
Clay, D. (1983a)  Lucretius and Epicurus (Ithaca, New York/London) Clay, D. (1983b) 'Individual and community in the first generation of the Epicurean school', in AA. VV. (1983) 255-79
Clay, D. (1986) 'The cults of Epicurus',  CErc  16, 11-28
Clay, D. (1990) 'The philosophical inscription of Diogenes of Oenoanda: New discoveries 1969-1983', in Haase, W., ed.,  ANRW  ii 36. 4 (Berlin/New York) 2445-559
Cleary, J. J. & Shartin, D. C., edd. (1988)  Boston Area Colloquium in Ancient Philosophy, vol. iv (Lanham)
Cleary, J. J. & Wians, W. C., edd. (1992)  Boston Area Colloquium in Ancient Philosophy, vol. vii (Lanham)
Cohen, M. R. & Drabkin, I. E., edd. (1966)  A Source Book in Greek Science (Cambridge, Mass.; 1st edn New York 1948)
Cole, T. (1964) 'The sources and composition of Polybius vi',  Historia  13, 440-86
Cole, T. (1967)  Democritus and the Sources of Greek Anthropology (Cleveland) Colish, M. L. (1990)  The Stoic Tradition from Antiquity to the Early Middle Ages  i: Stoicism in the Classical Latin Literature, Studies in the history of Christian thought 34, 2nd impr. (Leiden, first edn 1985)
Conche, M. (1973)  Pyrrhon ou l'apparence (Villers-sur-Mer) Conche, M. (1984) 'Métrodore de Chio', in Huisman, D., ed.,  Dictionnaire des philosophes (Paris) 1821
Cooper, J. (1989) 'Greek philosophers on euthanasia and suicide', in Brody, B. A., ed. 
(1989)  Suicide and Euthanasia: Historical and Contemporary Themes, Philosophy and Medicine 35 (Dordrecht) 9-38
Corcoran, J., ed. (1974a)  Ancient Logic and its Modern Interpretation (Dordrecht/Boston) Corcoran, J. (1974b) 'Remarks on Stoic deduction', in Corcoran (1974a) 169-81
Corssen, P. (1878)  De Posidonio Rhodio M. Tulli Ciceronis in libro I.  Tusc. disp.  et in Somnio Scipionis  auctore (Bonn)
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
838
 Bibliography
Cortassa, G. (1989) 'Un'ipotesi sulla formazione del corpus di Sesto Empirico: La ricerca sulla tarda antichità', in Garzya, A., ed.,  Metodologie della ricerca sulla tarda antichità, Atti del primo convegno dell' associazione di studi tardoantichi (Naples) 297-307
Couissin, P. (1929) 'Le stoïcisme de la Nouvelle Académie',  Revue d'Histoire de la Philosophie Générale de la Civilisation  3, 241-76. Cited in the English version (1983) 'The Stoicism of the New Academy', in Burnyeat (1983) 31-63
Couissin, P. (1941) 'Les sorites de Carnéade contre le polythéisme',  REG  54, 43-57
Crane, T. & Mellor, D. H. (1990) 'There is no question of physicalism',  Mind  99, 185-206
Crivelli, P. (1994) 'Indefinite propositions and anaphora in Stoic logic',  Phronesis  39, 187-206
Croissant, J. (1984) 'Autour de la quatrième formule d'implication dans Sextus Empiricus',  RPhA  2.1, 73-120
Crönert, W. (1906)  Kolotes und Menedemos, Studien zur Palaeographie und Papyruskunde 6 (Leipzig; repr. Amsterdam 1965)
Crouzel, H., ed. (1969) Grégoire le Thaumaturge:  Remerciement à Origène, suivi de la lettre d'Origène à Grégoire, SC 148 (Paris)
Daiber, H., ed. (1980)  Aetius Arabus. Die Vorsokratiker in arabischer Überlieferung, Verö◊entlichungen der Orientalischen Kommission, Akademie der
Wissenschaften und der Literatur in Mainz 33 (Wiesbaden)
Daiber, H. (1992) 'The  Meteorology  of Theophrastus in Syriac and Arabic translation', in Fortenbaugh & Gutas (1992) 166-293
dal Pra, see: Pra, dal
Davidson, D. (1980) 'Mental events', in id.,  Essays on Actions and Events (Oxford; repr. 
1985) 207-28
Davidson, D. (1982)  Actions and Events (Oxford)
Dawson, D. (1992)  Cities of the Gods: Communist Utopias in Greek Thought (New York/Oxford)
De Lacy, Ph. (1939) 'The Epicurean analysis of language',  AJPh  60, 85-92
De Lacy, Ph. (1948) 'Stoic views of poetry',  AJPh  69, 241-71
De Lacy, Ph. (1958) 'Ου0 µα4λλον and the antecedents of ancient Scepticism',  Phronesis 3, 59-71; repr. in Anton, J. P. & Kostas, G. L., edd. (1971)  Essays in Ancient Greek Philosophy (Albany) 593-606
De Lacy, Ph. (1977) 'The four Stoic personae',  ICS  2, 163-72
De Lacy, Ph., ed. (1984) Galen:  On the Doctrines of Hippocrates and Plato, first part: books i-v, Corpus Medicorum Graecorum v 4, 1, 2, ed. 3 (Berlin, first edn 1978) De Lacy, Ph. H. & De Lacy, E. A. (1978) Philodemus:  On Methods of Inference, Rev. ed., La Scuola di Epicuro 1 (Naples)
De Mauro, see: Mauro, de
De Witt, N. W. (1936) 'Organization and procedure in Epicurean groups',  CPh  31, 205-11
De Witt, N. W. (1954)  Epicurus and his Philosophy (Minneapolis) Decleva Caizzi, F. (1966)  Antisthenis Fragmenta (Varese/Milan) Decleva Caizzi, F., ed. (1981a) Pirrone:  Testimonianze,  Elenchos 5 (Naples) Decleva Caizzi, F. (1981b) 'Prolegomena ad una raccolta delle fonti relative a Pirrone di Elide', in Giannantoni (1981a) i, 93-128
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
 Bibliography
839
Decleva Caizzi, F. (1984) 'Pirrone e Democrito: Gli atomi: un "mito" ?',  Elenchos  5, 5-23, also published as 'Démocrite, l'école d'Abdère et le premier pyrrhonisme', Proceedings of the 1st International Congress on Democritus, vol. B, 139-56
Decleva Caizzi, F. (1986) 'Pirroniani ed accademici nel iii secolo a.C.', in Flashar & Gigon (1986) 147-78
Decleva Caizzi, F. (1988) 'La "materia scorrevole" — Sulle tracce di un dibattito perduto', in Barnes & Mignucci (1988a) 425-70
Decleva Caizzi, F. (1992a) 'Aenesidemus and the Academy',  CQ  42, 176-89
Decleva Caizzi, F. (1992b) 'Sesto e gli Scettici',  Elenchos  13, 277-327
Decleva Caizzi, F. & Funghi, M. S. (1988) 'Un testo sul concetto stoico di progresso morale (PMilVogliano inv. 1241)', in  Aristoxenica, Menandrea, Fragmenta philosophica. Studi e testi per il Corpus dei papiri filosofici greci e latini 3
(Florence) 85-124
Deichgräber, K. (1930 (repr. w. add. 1965))  Die Griechische Empirikerschule. Sammlung der Fragmente und Darstellung der Lehre (Berlin/Zürich)
Deichgräber, K. (1937) 'Persaios (1)', in  Pauly Wissowa, Realencyclopädie  19.1, cols. 
926-31
Delamarre, A. J.-L. (1980) 'La notion de ΠΤΩΣΙΣ chez Aristote et les Stoïciens', in Aubenque (1980) 321-45
Delatte, L., ed. (1942)  Les Traités de la Royauté d'Ecphante, Diotogène et Sténidas (Liège/Paris)
Denniston, J. (1934)  The Greek Particles (Oxford; 2nd edn 1950, various repr.) Denyer, N. C. (1981a) 'The atomism of Diodorus Cronus',  Prudentia  13, 33-45
Denyer, N. C. (1981b) 'Time and modality in Diodorus Cronus',  Theoria  47, 31-53
Denyer, N. C. (1983) 'The origins of justice', in AA. VV. (1983) 133-52
Denyer, N. C. (1988) 'Stoicism and token reflexivity', in Barnes & Mignucci (1988a) 375-96
Denyer, N. C. (1991)  Language, Thought and Falsehood in Ancient Greek Philosophy (London/New York)
des Places,  see: Places, des
Desbordes, B. A. (1990)  Introduction à Diogène Laërce, Exposition de l'Altertumswissenschaft servant de préliminaires critiques à une lecture de l'oeuvre, 2 vols. (Utrecht)
Desbordes, F. (1987) 'Elementa. Remarques sur le rôle de l'écriture dans la linguistique antique',  Cahiers de philosophie ancienne  5, 339-55
Desbordes, F. (1990)  Idées Romaines sur l'Ecriture (Lille) Deuse, W. (1993) 'Celsus im Prooemium von "De medicina": Römische Aneignung griechischer Wissenschaft', in Haase, W., ed.,  ANRW  ii 37.1 (Berlin/New York) 819-41
di Benedetto; di Marco; di Gregorio, see: Benedetto, etc. 
Diano, C. (1935) 'Note epicuree',  SIFC  12, 61-86, 237-89
Diano, C. (1974) 'La psicologia d'Epicuro e la teoria delle passioni', in C. Diano,  Scritti epicurei (Florence) 129-280
Diels, H. (1879)  Doxographi Graeci (Berlin, later repr.) Diels, H., ed. (1893) Anonymi Londinensis  Ex Aristotelis Iatricis Menoniis et aliis medicis Eclogae, Commentaria in Aristotelem Graeca, suppl. Arist. 3.1 (Berlin) Diels, H. (1894) 'Aus dem Leben des Cynikers Diogenes',  AGPh  7, 313-16
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
840
 Bibliography
Diels, H., ed. (1901)  Poetarum Philosophorum Fragmenta (Berlin) Diels, H., ed. (1903)  Die Fragmente der Vorsokratiker (Berlin, numerous rev. edns.) Diels, H., ed. (1916/17)  Philodemos über die Götter, Erstes und drittes Buch, Abh. der königlich Preussischen Akad. der Wiss. 1915.7/1916.4 and 6, philos.-hist. Klasse (Berlin)
Dihle, A. (1970)  Studien zur Griechischen Biographie, 2nd edn, NAWG 3. F. Nr. 37
(Göttingen)
Dihle, A. (1986a)  Die Entstehung der Historischen Biographie, SAHW, Philos.-hist. Kl. 
1986.3 (Heidelberg [1987])
Dihle, A. (1986b) 'Philosophie-Fachwissenschaft-Allgemeinbildung', in Flashar & Gigon (1986) 185-223
Dijksterhuis, E. J. (1987)  Archimedes, 2nd edn (Princeton) Dillon, J. (1983; 1990) 'What happened to Plato's Garden?',  Hermathena  133, 51-9; repr. in Dillon (1990) study i
Dillon, J. M. (1990)  The Golden Chain: Studies in the Development of Platonism and Christianity, CSS 333 (Aldershot)
Dillon, J. M. & Long, A. A., edd. (1988)  The Question of 'Eclecticism'. Studies in Later Greek Philosophy, Hellenistic Culture and Society 3 (Berkeley/Los Angeles; repr. 1996) Dionigi, I (1976) 'Lucr. 6, 1198-1203 e P. Oxy. 215 col. i 7-24: L'epicureismo e la venerazione degli dei',  SIFC  48, 118-39
Dirlmeier, F. (1937)  Die Oikeiosis-Lehre Theophrasts, Philologus, Suppl. 30, H. 1 (Leipzig) Dobbs, B. J. T. (1985) 'Newton and Stoicism', in Epp (1985) 109-23
Donini, P. L. (1974-5) 'Fato e volontà umana in Crisippo',  AAT  109, 187-230
Donini, P. L. (1995a) 'Pathos nello stoicismo romano',  Elenchos  16, 193-216
Donini, P. L. (1995b) 'Struttura delle passioni e del vizio e loro cura in Crisippo', Elenchos  16, 305-29
Dorandi, T., ed. (1982a) Filodemo:  Il buon re secondo Omero, La scuola di Epicuro 3
(Naples)
Dorandi, T. (1982b) 'Filodemo, Gli Stoici ( PHerc.  155 e 339)',  CErc  12, 91-133
Dorandi, T., ed. (1990a) 'Filodemo: gli orientamenti della ricerca attuale', in Haase, W., ed.,  ANRW  ii 36.4 (Berlin/New York) 2328-68
Dorandi, T. (1990b) 'Filodemo storico del pensiero antico', in Haase, W., ed.,  ANRW  ii 36.4 (Berlin/New York) 2407-23
Dorandi, T. (1990c) 'Gli arconti nei papiri ercolanesi',  ZPE  84, 121-38
Dorandi, T. (1991a) 'Figure femminili della filosofia antica', in De Martino, F., ed.,  Rose della Pieria (Bari) 261-78
Dorandi, T., ed. (1991b) Filodemo:  Storia dei Filosofi [.]: Platone e l'Academia (PHerc. 
 1021 e 164), La Scuola di Epicuro 12 (Naples)
Dorandi, T. (1991c)  Ricerche sulla Cronologia dei Filosofi Ellenistici, Beiträge zur Altertumskunde 19 (Stuttgart)
Dorandi, T. (1991d) 'Den Autoren über die Schulter geschaut: Arbeitsweise und Autographie bei den antiken Schriftstellern',  ZPE  87, 11-33
Dorandi, T. (1992a) 'Considerazioni sull' index locupletior  di Diogene Laerzio', Prometheus  18, 121-6
Dorandi, T. (1992b) 'Il quarto libro delle "Vite" di Diogene Laerzio', in Haase, W., ed., ANRW  ii 36.5 (Berlin/New York) 3761-92
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
 Bibliography
841
Dorandi, T. (1993) 'Estratti dal iii libro di Diogene Laerzio in un codice di Vienna (cod. phil. gr. 314)',  SCO  43, 63-70
Dorandi, T. (1994a) Filodemo:  Storia dei filosofi: La Stoà da Zenone a Panezio (PHerc. 
 1018), PhA 60 (Leiden)
Dorandi, T. (1994b) 'Bryson d'Achaïe', in Goulet (1989-94) ii, 142
Dorandi, T. (1994c) 'I frammenti di Anassarco di Abdera',  Atti e Memorie dell' Accademia Toscana di Scienze e Lettere La Colombaria  69 N.S. 45, 11-59
Dorandi, T. (1994d) 'De Zénon d'Elée à Anaxarque', in Jerphagnon et al. (1994) 27-37
Dorandi, T. (1995a) 'Prolegomena per una edizione dei frammenti di Antigono di Caristo. iii',  ZPE  106, 61-90
Dorandi, T. (1995b) 'La "Villa dei Papiri" a Ercolano e la sua biblioteca',  CPh  168-82
Döring, K., ed. (1972)  Die Megariker -  Kommentierte Sammlung der Testimonien (Amsterdam)
Döring, K. (1978) 'Antike Theorien über die staatspolitische Notwendigkeit der Götterfurcht',  A & A  24, 43-56
Döring, K. (1987)  Historia Philosopha, Grundzüge der antiken Philosophiegeschichtsschreibung (Freiburg i.Br./Würzburg)
Döring, K. (1988)  Der Sokratesschüler Aristipp und die Kyrenaiker, AAWM, Geistes- und Sozialwiss. Klasse 1988.1 (Mainz)
Döring, K. (1989) 'Gab es eine Dialektische Schule ?',  Phronesis  34, 293-310
Döring, K. (1992) 'Die sog. kleinen Sokratiker und ihre Schulen bei Sextus Empiricus', Elenchos  13, 81-118
Döring, K. & Ebert, T., edd. (1993)  Dialektiker und Stoiker. Zur Logik der Stoa und ihrer Vorläufer, Philosophie der Antike 1 (Stuttgart)
Dorival, G. (1992) 'L'apport d'Origène pour la connaissance de la philosophie grecque', in Daly, R. J., ed. (1992)  Origeniana quinta, BETL 105 (Leuven) 189-216
Dörrie, H. (1970) 'Chrysippos (14)', in  Pauly Wissowa, Realencyclopädie  Suppl. 12, cols. 
148-55
Dörrie, H. & Baltes, M. (1993)  Der Platonismus in der Antike: Grundlagen - System -
 Entwicklung  iii: Der Platonismus im 2. und 3. Jahrhundert nach Christus (Stuttgart/Bad Canstatt)
Dörrie, H. & Baltes, M. (1996)  Der Platonismus in der Antike  IV (Stuttgart/Bad Cannstatt) Douglas, A. E. (1995) 'Form and content in the  Tusculan Disputations', in Powell (1995a) 197-218
Dragona-Monachou, M. (1976)  The Stoic Arguments for the Existence and the Providence of the Gods (Athens)
Dudley, D. R. (1937)  A History of Cynicism from Diogenes to the 6th Century A.D. (London; repr. 1976)
Duhot, J.-J. (1989)  La conception stoïcienne de la causalité (Paris) Dumont, J.-P. (1969) 'Pyrrhon et le scepticisme ancien', in Parain, B., ed.,  Histoire de la philosophie (Paris) vol. i:  Orient, Antiquité, Moyen Age, 717-23
Dumont, J.-P. (1972)  Le Scepticisme et le Phénomène — Essai sur la signification et les origines du pyrrhonisme (2nd edn Paris, 1985)
Dumont, J.-P. (1982) 'Diogène de Babylone et la preuve ontologique',  RPh  107, 389-95
Dumont, J.-P. (1983) 'Diogène de Babylone et la déesse Raison. La Métis des stoïciens', BAGB  260-78
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
842
 Bibliography
Dumont, J.-P., ed. (1988)  Les Présocratiques, Bibliothèque de la Pléiade 345 (Paris) Dunbabin, K. M. D. (1986) ' Sic erimus cuncti . . . The Skeleton in Graeco-Roman Art', JDAI  101, 185-255
Düring, I., ed. (1932) Porphyrios  Kommentar zur Harmonielehre des Ptolemaios (Göteborg)
Dyck, A. R. (1996)  A Commentary on Cicero, De O√ciis (Ann Arbor) Ebbesen, S. (1981)  Commentators and Commentaries on Aristotle's  Sophistici Elenchi, A Study of Post-Aristotelian Ancient and Medieval Writings on Fallacies, 3 vols. 
(Leiden)
Ebert, T. (1987) 'The origin of the Stoic theory of signs in Sextus Empiricus',  OSAP  5, 83-126
Ebert, T. (1991)  Dialektiker und frühe Stoiker bei Sextus Empiricus,  Hypomnemata 95
(Göttingen)
Edelstein, L. (1932) 'Die Geschichte der Sektion in der Antike',  Quellen und Studien zur Geschichte der Naturwissenschaften und der Medizin  3, 50-106 (10 0-56); Engl. 
transl. in Temkin & Temkin (1967) 247-301
Edelstein, L. (1933) 'Empirie und Skepsis in der Lehre der griechischen Empirikerschule',  Quellen und Studien zur Geschichte der Naturwissenschaften und der Medizin  3, 45-53 (253-61); Engl. transl. in Temkin & Temkin (1967) 195-203
Edelstein, L. (1952) 'The relation of ancient philosophy to medicine',  BHM  26, 299-316; repr. in Temkin & Temkin (1967) 349-66
Edelstein, L. & Kidd, I. G., edd. (1972) Posidonius, I:  The Fragments, Classical Texts and Commentaries 13 (Cambridge; 2nd ed. 1989)
Edlow, R. Blair, 1975, 'The Stoics on ambiguity',  JHPh  13, 423-36
E◊e, B. (1970)  Studien zur Kosmologie und Theologie der aristotelischen Schrift "Über die Philosophie" , Zetemata 50 (Munich)
Egli, U. (1967)  Zur stoischen Dialektik (Basle)
Egli, U. (1981) Das Dioklesfragment bei Diogenes Laertios, Sonderforschungsbereich 99 Linguistik 55 (Konstanz)
Einarson, B. & De Lacy, P. H., edd. (1967) Plutarch's  Moralia, vol. xiv, LCL
(London/Cambridge, Mass.)
Elster, J. (1983)  Sour Grapes: studies in the subversion of rationality (Cambridge) Elster, J. (1984)  Ulysses and the Sirens: studies in rationality and irrationality (rev. edn, Cambridge; Paris)
Engberg-Pedersen, T. (1990)  The Stoic Theory of Oikeiosis, moral development and social interaction in early Stoic philosophy, Studies in Hellenistic civilization 2
(Aarhus)
Englert, W. G. (1987)  Epicurus on the Swerve and Voluntary Action, American Classical Studies 16 (Atlanta)
Epp, R. E., ed. (1985)  Spindel Conference 1984: Recovering the Stoics. Southern Journal of Philosophy 23, Suppl. (Memphis)
Erler, M. (1991) 'ΕΠΙΤΗ∆ΕΥΕΙΝ ΑΣΑΦΕΙΑΝ. Zu Philodem Προ' του' [ε/ται!ρου]
( PHerc. 10 05) col. xvi Angeli',  CErc  21, 83-8
Erler, M. (1992a) 'Orthodoxie und Anpassung. Philodem, ein Panaitis des Kepos?',  MH
49, 171-20 0
Erler, M. (1992b) 'Cicero und "unorthodoxer" Epikureismus',  Anregung  38, 307-22
Erler, M. (1993) 'Philologia medicans. Wie die Epikureer die Texte ihres Meisters Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
 Bibliography
843
lasen', in Kullmann, W. & Altho◊, J., edd.,  Vermittlung und Tradierung von Wissen in der griechischen Kultur (Tübingen) 281-303
Erler, M. (1994) '1. Epikur; 2. Die Schule Epikurs; 3. Lukrez', in Flashar (1994) 29-490
Erler, M. (1997a) 'Römische Philosophie', in Graf, F., ed.,  Einleitung in die lateinische Philologie (Stuttgart/Leipzig) 537-98
Erler, M. (1997b) 'Physics as therapy. Meditative elements in Lucretius'  De rerum natura', in Algra  et al. (1997) 79-92
Erler, M. & Ungern-Sternberg, J. v. (1987) 'Κακο'ν γυναι4κε. Griechisches zu der Rede des Metellus Macedonius  De prole augenda',  MH  44, 254-6
Ernout, A. & Robin, L. (1925-8) Lucrèce:  De Rerum Natura. Commentaire exégétique et critique, 3 vols. (Paris)
Erskine, A. (1990)  The Hellenistic Stoa, Political Thought and Action (London) Evans, C. F. (1970) 'The New Testament in the making', in Ackroyd & Evans (1970a) 232-84
Evans, J. D. G. (1974) 'The Old Stoa on the truth-value of oaths',  PCPhS  20, 43-7
Everson, S., ed. (1990a)  Epistemology, Companions to Ancient Thought 1 (Cambridge) Everson, S. (1990b) 'Epicurus on the truth of the senses', in Everson (1990a) 161-83
Everson, S., ed. (1991a)  Psychology, Companions to Ancient Thought 2 (Cambridge) Everson, S. (1991b) 'The objective appearance of Pyrrhonism', in Everson (1991a) 121-47
Everson, S. (1994a)  Language, Companions to Ancient Thought 3 (Cambridge) Everson, S. (1994b) 'Epicurus on mind and language', in Everson (1994a) 74-108
Everson, S. (1994c) 'Aristotle's theory of the mind', in Barnes, J., ed.,  The Cambridge Companion to Aristotle (Cambridge)
Fahr, W. (1969)  " ΘΕΟΥΣ ΝΟΜΙΖΕΙΝ " , Zum Problem der Anfänge des Atheismus bei den Griechen, Spudasmata 26 (Hildesheim/New York)
Farrington, B. (1939)  Science and Politics in the Ancient World (London, 2nd edn 1965) Fehling, D. (1956/7; 1958) 'Varro und die grammatische Lehre von der Analogie und der Flexion',  Glotta  35, 214-70; 36, 48-10 0
Fehling, D. (1958) (rev. Barwick 1957)  GGA  212, 161-73
Fehling, D. (1965) 'Zwei Untersuchungen zur griechischen Sprachphilosophie',  RhM
108, 212-29
Fehling, D. (1979) (rev. Siebenborn 1976)  Gnomon  51, 488-90
Ferrari, G. A. (1981) 'L'immagine dell'equilibrio', in Giannantoni (1981a) i, 337-70
Ferraria, L. & Santese, G. (1981) 'Bibliografia sullo Scetticismo antico (1880-1978)', in Giannantoni (1981a) ii, 753-850
Ferrary, J. L. (1988)  Philhellénisme et Impérialisme, Aspects idéologiques de la conquête romaine du monde hellénistique, de la seconde guerre de Macédoine à la guerre contre Mithridate (Rome)
Festa, N. (1935)  I frammenti degli stoici antichi, vol. 2 (Bari; repr. Hildesheim/New York 1971) Festugière, A.-J. (1949)  La révélation d'Hermès  T rismégiste, ii: Le Dieu cosmique (Paris, later repr.)
Festugière, A.-J. (1985)  Epicure et ses dieux, 3rd edn (Paris, 1st edn, 1946) Fillion-Lahille, J. (1984)  Le  De ira  de Sénèque et la philosophie stoïcienne des passions, Etudes et commentaires 94 (Paris)
Finley, M. I. (1968) 'Diogenes the Cynic', in id., ed.,  Aspects of Antiquity: Discoveries and Controversies (London)
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
844
 Bibliography
Finley, M. I. (1983)  Politics in the Ancient World (Cambridge) Flashar, H., ed. (1983)  Grundriß der Geschichte der Philosophie. Die Philosophie der Antike, Band 3: Ältere Akademie-Aristoteles-Peripatos (Basle/Stuttgart) Flashar, H., ed. (1994)  Grundriß der Geschichte der Philosophie. Die Philosophie der Antike, Band 4: Die hellenistische Philosophie (Basle/Stuttgart)
Flashar, H. & Gigon, O., edd. (1986)  Aspects de la philosophie hellénistique, Fondation Hardt 32 (Vandœuvres/Geneva)
Flinto◊, E. (1980) 'Pyrrho and India',  Phronesis  25, 88-108
Foraboschi, D. (1984) 'Filodemo, Sull'economia', in  Atti del XVII Congresso Internazionale di papirologia (Naples) vol. 2, 537-42
Forschner, M. (1981)  Die Stoische Ethik: über den Zusammenhang von Natur-, Sprach-u. Moralphilosophie im altstoischen System (Stuttgart; repr. Darmstadt 1995) Forschner, M. (1982) 'Epikurs Theorie des Glücks',  ZPhF  36, 179-88
Fortenbaugh, W. W., ed. (1983)  On Stoic and Peripatetic Ethics. The Work of Arius Didymus, RUSCH 1 (New Brunswick/London)
Fortenbaugh, W. W., Huby, P. M. & Long A. A., edd. (1985)  Theophrastus of Eresus: On his Life and Work, RUSCH 2 (New Brunswick/Oxford)
Fortenbaugh, W. W. & Sharples, R. W., edd. (1988)  Theophrastean Studies: On Natural Science, Physics and Metaphysics, Ethics, Religion, and Rhetoric, RUSCH 3
(New Brunswick/Oxford)
Fortenbaugh, W. W. & Steinmetz, P., edd. (1989)  Cicero's Knowledge of the Peripatos, RUSCH 4 (New Brunswick/London)
Fortenbaugh, W. W. & Gutas, D., edd. (1992a)  Theophrastus: His Psychological, Doxographical and Scientific Writings, RUSCH 5 (New Brunswick/London) Fortenbaugh, W. W., Huby, P. M., Sharples, R. W. & Gutas, D., edd. (1992b) Theophrastus of Eresus: Sources for his Life, Writings, Thought, and Influence, 2
vols., Philosophia Antiqua 54.1-2 (Leiden)
Fortenbaugh, W. W. & Mirhady, D. C., edd. (1994)  Peripatetic Rhetoric after Aristotle, RUSCH 6 (New Brunswick/London)
Foucault, M. (1988) 'Technologies of the self ', in Martin, L. H., Gutman, H. & Hutton, P. H., edd.,  Technologies of the Self: a Seminar with Michel Foucault (Amherst) 16-49
Fowler, D. P. (1984) 'Sceptics and Epicureans',  OSAP  2, 237-67
Fowler, D. P. (1986) (rev. Asmis 1984)  JHS  106, 227-31
Fowler, D. P. (1989) 'Lucretius and politics', in Gri√n & Barnes (1989) 120-50
Fraenkel, E. (1925 (1968)) 'Xenophanesstudien',  Hermes  60, 174-92, repr. in  Wege und Formen frühgriechischen Denkens (Munich) 335-49
Fraisse, J.-C. (1974)  Philia. La notion d'amitié dans la philosophie antique (Paris) Franco Repellini, F. (1985) 'Ipparco e la tradizione astronomica', in Giannantoni & Vegetti (1985) 187-224
Fraser, P. M. (1969) 'The career of Erasistratus of Ceos',  RIL  103, 518-37
Fraser, P. M. (1972)  Ptolemaic Alexandria, 3 vols. (Oxford) Frede, M. (1973) (rev. Stough 1969)  JPh  70, 805-10
Frede, M. (1974a)  Die stoische Logik, Abhandlungen der Akademie der Wissenschaften in Gottingen. Philol.-hist. Kl. Folge 3, Nr. 88 (Göttingen)
Frede, M. (1974b) 'Stoic vs. Aristotelian syllogistic',  AGPh  56, 1-32
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
 Bibliography
845
Frede, M. (1977) 'The origins of traditional grammar', in Butts, R. E. & Hintikka J., edd.,  Historical and Philosophical Dimensions of Logic,  Methodology and Philosophy of Science (Dordrecht/Boston) 51-79
Frede, M. (1978) 'Principles of Stoic grammar', in Rist (1978b) 27-75; repr. in Frede (1987a) 301-37
Frede, M. (1979) 'Des Skeptikers Meinungen',  Neue Hefte für Philosophie, Aktualität der Antike  15/16, 102-29; repr. as 'The skeptic's beliefs', in Frede (1987a) 179-20 0
Frede, M. (1980) 'The original notion of cause', in Schofield  et al. (1980a) 217-49; repr. 
in Frede (1987a) 125-50
Frede, M. (1982) 'The method of the so-called methodical school of medicine', in Barnes et al. (1982a) 1-23; repr. in Frede (1987a) 261-78
Frede, M. (1983) 'Stoics and Skeptics on clear and distinct impressions', in Burnyeat (1983) 65-93; repr. in Frede (1987a) 151-76
Frede, M. (1984) 'The sceptic's two kinds of assent and the question of the possibility of knowledge', in Rorty  et al. (1984) 255-78; repr. Frede (1987a) 201-22
Frede, M. (1986a) 'Philosophy and medicine in antiquity', in Donagan, A., Perovich, A. N. & Wedin, M. V., edd.,  Human Nature and Natural Knowledge, Essays Presented to Marjorie Grene (Dordrecht) 211-32; repr. in Frede (1987a) 225-42
Frede, M. (1986b) 'The Stoic doctrine of the a◊ections of the soul', in Schofield & Striker (1986a) 93-110
Frede, M. (1987a)  Essays in Ancient Philosophy (Oxford) Frede, M. (1987b) 'The ancient empiricists', in Frede (1987a) 243-60
Frede, M. (1988) 'The empiricist attitude towards reason and theory', in Hankinson (1988c) 79-97
Frede, M. (1990) 'An empiricist view of knowledge: memorism', in Everson (1990a) 225-50
Frede, M. (1992) 'Plato's arguments and the dialogue form',  OSAP  suppl. vol., 201-19
Frede, M. (1994) 'The Stoic notion of a  lekton', in Everson (1994a) 109-129
Frede, M. & Striker, G., edd. (1996)  Rationality in Greek Thought (Oxford) Frenkian, A. M. (1958) 'Der griechische Skeptizismus und die indische Philosophie', Bibliotheca Classica Orientalis  3, 212-49
Freytag, W. (1995)  Mathematische Grundbegri◊e bei Sextus Empiricus, Spudasmata 57
(Hildesheim)
Frischer, B. (1982)  The Sculpted Word: Epicureanism and philosophical recruitment in ancient Greece (Berkeley)
Fritz, K. von (1926)  Quellenuntersuchungen zu Leben und Philosophie des Diogenes von Sinope, Philologus. Supplementband 18, H. 2 (Leipzig)
Fritz, K. von (1963) 'Pyrrhon aus Elis Skeptiker', in  Pauly Wissowa, Realencyclopädie 24.1, cols. 89-106
Fritz, K. von (1971 (1955))  Grundprobleme der Geschichte der antiken Wissenschaft (Berlin)
Fritz, K. von (1972) 'Zenon (4)', in  Pauly Wissowa, Realencyclopädie  10.A, col. 122
Fuhrmann, M. (1960)  Das systematische Lehrbuch. Ein Beitrag zur Geschichte der Wissenschaften in der Antike (Göttingen)
Furley, D. J. (1967)  Two Studies in the Greek Atomists, 1. Indivisible Magnitudes. 2. 
Aristotle and Epicurus on Voluntary Action (Princeton)
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
846
 Bibliography
Furley, D. J. (1971) 'Knowledge of atoms and void in Epicureanism', in Anton, J. P. & Kustas, G. L., edd.,  Essays in Ancient Greek Philosophy  i (Albany) 607-19
Furley, D. J. (1978) 'Lucretius the Epicurean. On the history of man', in  Lucrèce, Fondation Hardt 24 (Vandœuvres/Geneva) 1-37
Furley, D. J. (1985) 'Strato's theory of the void', in Wiesner (1985-7) i, 594-609
Furley, D. J. (1986) 'Nothing to us?', in Schofield & Striker (1986a) 75-91
Furley, D. J. (1988) (rev. Asmis 1984)  AGPh  70, 108-11
Furley, D. J. (1989a (1966)) 'Lucretius and the Stoics', in Furley (1989c) 183-205
Furley, D. J. (1989b (1985)) 'Strato's theory of the void', in Furley (1989c) 149-60
Furley, D. J. (1989c)  Cosmic Problems: Essays on Greek and Roman Philosophy of Nature (Cambridge)
Furley, D. J. & Wilkie, J. S. (1984)  Galen on Respiration and the Arteries (Princeton) Gallo, I., ed. (1980)  Frammenti biografici da papiri  ii: La biografia dei filosofi (Rome) Garbarino, G. (1973)  Roma e la filosofia greca dalle origini alla fine del II sec. a.C. , Studi e testi 6 (Turin)
Garofalo, I., ed. (1988),  Erasistrati fragmenta, Biblioteca di studi antichi 62 (Pisa) Gercke, A., ed. (1885)  Chrysippea (Leipzig)
Giannantoni, G. (1958)  I Cirenaici. Raccolta delle fonti antiche, traduzione e studio introduttivo (Florence)
Giannantoni, G., ed. (1981a)  Lo scetticismo antico, 2 vols.,  Elenchos  6.1-2 (Naples) Giannantoni, G. (1981b) 'Pirrone, la scuola scettica e il sistema delle "successioni"', in Giannantoni (1981a) i, 11-34
Giannantoni, G. (1981c) 'Il ΚΥΡΙΕΥΩΝ ΛΟΓΟΣ di Diodoro Crono',  Elenchos  2, 239-72
Giannantoni, G. (1984) 'Il piacere cinetico nell'etica epicurea',  Elenchos  5, 25-44
Giannantoni, G., ed. (1986a)  Diogene Laerzio storico del pensiero antico,  Elenchos  7
(Naples)
Giannantoni, G. (1986b) 'Socrate e i Socratici in Diogene Laerzio', in Giannantoni (1986a) 183-216
Giannantoni, G., ed. (1990)  Socratis et Socraticorum reliquiae, 4 vols.,  Elenchos  18
(Naples)
Giannantoni, G., ed. (1992)  Sesto Empirico e il pensiero antico,  Elenchos  23 (Naples) Giannantoni, G. & Gigante, M., edd. (1996)  Epicureismo greco e romano.  Atti del congresso internazionale Naples 19-26 Maggio (Naples)
Giannantoni, G. & Vegetti, M., edd. (1985)  La scienza ellenistica (Naples) Giannattasio Andria, R. (1989)  I frammenti delle 'Successioni dei filosofi',  Quaderni del Dipartimento di Scienze dell'Antichità, Università degli studi di Salerno 5 (Naples) Gigante, M. (1960) 'Il panlogismo stoico e il testo di Diogene Laerzio',  PP  15, 415-27
Gigante, M. (1975) ' ''Philosophia medicans" in Filodemo',  CErc  5, 53-61
Gigante, M., ed. (1979)  Catalogo dei papiri Ercolanesi (Naples) Gigante, M. (1981)  Scetticismo e epicureismo. Per l'avviamento di un discorso storiografico,  Elenchos  4 (Naples)
Gigante, M. (1983a)  Ricerche filodemee, 2nd edn (Naples) Gigante, M. (1983b) Diogene Laerzio:  Vite dei filosofi, BUL, 3rd edn (Rome/Bari) Gigante, M. (1983c) 'Frammenti di Ippoboto. Contributo alla storia della storiografia filosofica', in Mastrocinque, A., ed.,  Studi P. Treves (Padua) Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
 Bibliography
847
Gigante, M. (1986) 'Biografia e dossografia in Diogene Laerzio', in Giannantoni (1986a) 7-102
Gigante, M. (1987a)  La bibliothèque de Philodème et l'Epicuréisme Romain. Préface de P. 
Grimal (Paris)
Gigante, M. (1988) 'Prefazione alla stampa della dissertazione di A. Schober sulla prima parte dell'opera "De pietate" di Filodemo',  CErc  18, 65-6
Gigante, M. (1992)  Cinismo e Epicurismo (Naples)
Gigante, M. (1995)  Philodemus in Italy: The Books from Herculaneum (Ann Arbor) (originally published as  Filodemo in Italia (Florence 1990)) Gigante, M. & Dorandi, T. (1980) 'Anassarco e Epicuro "Sul regno"', in Romano, F., ed. (1980) 479-97
Gigon, O. (1949) Epikur:  Von der Überwindung der Furcht (Zürich) Gill, C. (1983) 'Did Chrysippus understand Medea?',  Phronesis  28, 136-49
Gill, C. (1988) 'Personhood and personality: the four- personae  theory in Cicero  De O√ciis  i',  OSAP  6, 169-99
Giusta, M. (1964-7)  I dossografi di etica, 2 vols., Pubblicazioni della Facoltà di lettere e filosofia, Università di Torino vol. 15, fasc. 3-4 (Turin)
Glibert-Thirry, A., ed. (1977) Pseudo-Andronicus de Rhodes: 'ΠΕΡΙ ΠΑΘΩΝ', Corpus latinum commentariorum in Aristotelem graecorum, suppl. 2 (Leiden) Glidden, D. K. (1975) 'Protagorean relativism and the Cyrenaics', in Rescher, N., ed., Studies in Epistemology (Oxford) 113-40
Glidden, D. K. (1980) 'Epicurus and the pleasure principle', in Depew, D. J., ed. (1980) The Greeks and the Good Life (Indianapolis) 177-97
Glidden, D. K. (1983a) 'Skeptic semiotics',  Phronesis  28, 213-55
Glidden, D. K. (1983b) 'Epicurean semantics', in AA. VV. (1983) 185-226
Glidden, D. K. (1985) 'Epicurean  prole-psis',  OSAP  3, 175-217
Glucker, J. (1978)  Antiochus and the Late Academy, Hypomnemata 56 (Göttingen) Glucker, J. (1988) 'Προ' το'ν ει0πο!ντα - Sources and credibility of  De Stoicorum repugnantiis  8',  ICS  13, 473-89
Glucker, J. (1991) 'Images of Plato in late antiquity', in Unguru, S., ed.,  Physics, Cosmology and Astronomy, 1300-1700: Tension and Accommodation, Boston Studies in the Philosophy of Science 126 (Dordrecht) 3-18
Goedeckemeyer, A. (1905)  Die Geschichte des Griechischen Skeptizismus (Leipzig) Goetz, G. (1894) 'Aelius (144)', in  Pauly Wissowa, Realencyclopädie  1, cols. 532-3
Goldschmidt, V. (1972) 'υ/πα!ρχειν et υ/φεστα!ναι dans la philosophie stoïcienne',  REG
85, 331-44
Goldschmidt, V. (1977)  La doctrine d'Epicure et le droit (Paris) Goldschmidt, V. (1979)  Le système stoïcien et l'idée de temps,  4th edn (Paris) Gomperz, T. (1899) 'Platonische Aufsätze, ii',  SAWW, Philos.-hist. Kl.144.7
Göransson, T. (1995)  Albinus, Alcinous, Arius Didymus, Studia Graeca et Latina Gothoburgensia 61 (Gothenburg)
Görgemanns, H. (1983) 'Oikeiôsis in Arius Didymus', in Fortenbaugh (1983) 165-89
Görler, W. (1977) ' 0Ασθενη' συγκατα!θεσι, zur stoischen Erkenntnis theorie',  WJA NF 3, 83-92
Görler, W. (1985) (rev. Decleva Caizzi 1981a)  AGPh  67, 320-35
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
848
 Bibliography
Görler, W. (1989) 'Cicero und die "Schule des Aristoteles", in Fortenbaugh & Steinmetz (1989) 246-63
Görler, W. & Gawlick, G. (1994) '6. Cicero', in Flashar (1994) 991-1168
Görler, W. (1994b) 'Älterer Pyrrhonismus, Jüngere Akademie, Antiochos aus Askalon', Flashar (1994) 717-989
Gosling, J. (1987) 'The Stoics and α0κρασι!α',  Apeiron  20, 179-202
Gosling, J. & Taylor, C. C. W. (1982)  The Greeks on Pleasure (Oxford) Gottschalk, H. B., ed. (1965) Strato of Lampsacus:  Some Texts, Edited with a Commentary, Proceedings of the Leeds Philosophical and Literary Society, Lit. and Hist. Sect. 
(11.6) 95-182
Gottschalk, H. B. (1967) (rev. Steinmetz 1964)  Gnomon  39, 17-26
Gottschalk, H. B. (1972) 'Notes on the wills of the peripatetic scholarchs',  Hermes  10 0, 314-342
Gottschalk, H. B. (1980)  Heraclides of Pontus (Oxford) Gottschalk, H. B. (1987) 'Aristotelian philosophy in the Roman world from the time of Cicero to the end of the second century ad', in Haase, W., ed.,  ANRW  ii.36.2
(Berlin/New York) 1079-174
Gottschalk, H. B. (1992) 'An errant fragment of Theophrastus',  CQ  42, 529-33
Goudriaan, K. (1988) 'Van eerste naar tweede sofistiek', in Slings, S. R. & Sluiter, I., edd.,  Ophelos (Amsterdam) 20-39
Goudriaan, K. (1989) ' Over Classicisme. Dionysius van Halicarnassus en zijn program van welsprekendheid, cultuur en politiek', 2 vols. (dissertation Amsterdam) Goulet, R. (1978) 'La classification stoïcienne des propositions simples', in Brunschwig (1978a) 171-98
Goulet, R. (1989) 'Aulu Gelle', in Goulet (1989-94) i, 675-87
Goulet, R., ed. (1989-94)  Dictionnaire des philosophes antiques, vols. i-ii (Paris) Goulet, R. (1997) 'Les références chez Diogène Laërce: sources ou autorités?', in Fredouille, J.-C.  et al. , edd.,  Titres et articulations du textes dans les oeuvres antiques (Paris) 149-66
Goulet-Cazé, M.-O. (1982) 'Un syllogisme stoïcien sur la loi dans la doxographie de Diogène le Cynique. A propos de Diogène Laërce VI 72',  RhM  125, 214-40
Goulet-Cazé, M.-O. (1986)  L'ascèse cynique: un commentaire de Diogène Laerce vi 70-1
(Paris)
Goulet-Cazé, M.-O. (1992) 'Le livre vi de Diogène Laërce: analyse de sa structure et réflexions méthodologiques', in Haase, W., ed.,  ANRW  ii 36.5 (Berlin/New York) 3880-4048
Graeser, A. (1972) 'Zirkel oder Deduktion? Zur Begründung der stoischen Ethik', Kant-Studien  63, 213-24
Graeser, A., ed. (1973)  Die Logischen Fragmente des Theophrast (Berlin) Graeser, A. (1975)  Zenon von Kition, Positionen und Probleme (Berlin) Graham, D. W., ed. (1995) Gregory Vlastos,  Studies in Greek Philosophy, vol. ii: Socrates, Plato, and their Tradition (Princeton 1995)
Gregorio, L. di, ed. (1975)  Scholia vetera in Hesiodi Theogoniam, Scienze filologiche e letteratura 6 (Milan)
Gri√n, M. T. (1976)  Seneca, a Philosopher in Politics (Oxford) Gri√n, M. T. (1986) 'Philosophy, Cato and Roman suicide',  G & R  33, 64-77, 192-202
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
 Bibliography
849
Gri√n, M. T. & Barnes, J., edd. (1989)  Philosophia togata. Essays on Philosophy and Roman Society (Oxford)
Grilli, A. (1963) 'Zenone e Antigono ii',  RFIC  91, 287-301; repr. in  Stoicismo, Epicureismo, Letteratura (Brescia 1992) 405-18
Groarke, L. (1990)  Greek Scepticism - Anti-Realist Trends in Ancient Thought (Montreal)
Grube, G. A. (1965)  The Greek and Roman Critics (London) Gutas, D. (1975)  Greek Wisdom Literature in Arabic Translation: A Study of the Graeco-Arabic Gnomologia, American Oriental Series 60 (New Haven)
Guthrie, W. K. C. (1962-1981)  A History of Greek Philosophy, 6 vols. (Cambridge, later repr.) Guyau, M. (1910)  La moral e  d'Epicure et ses rapports avec les doctrines contemporaines, 5th edn (Paris)
Habicht, Chr. (1989) 'Athen und die Seleukiden',  Chiron  19, 7-26; repr. in id. (1994) Athen in hellenistischer Zeit: gesammelte Aufsätze (Munich) 164-82
Hadot, I. (1969a)  Seneca und die griechisch-römische Tradition der Seelenleiting, Quellen und Studien zur Geschichte der Philosophie 13 (Berlin)
Hadot, I. (1969b) 'Epicure et l'enseignement philosophique hellénistique et romain', Actes du VIIIe Congrès de l'Association Guillaume Budé, 347-53 (1968) Hadot, I., ed. (1990) Simplicius:  Commentaire sur les Catégories, fasc. i: Introduction, première partie (p. 1-9, 3 Kalbfleisch). Traduction de Ph. Ho◊mann (avec la collaboration d' I. et P. Hadot), Commentaire et notes à la traduction par I. 
Hadot, PhA 50 (Leiden)
Hadot, I. (1991) 'The role of the commentaries on Aristotle in the teaching of philosophy according to the prefaces of the Neoplatonic commentaries on the Categories', in Blumenthal, H. & Robinson, H., edd.,  Aristotle and the Later Tradition, OSAP, suppl. vol. (Oxford) 175-89
Hadot, P. (1957) 'De lectis non lecta conponere (Marius Victorinus,  adversus Arrium  ii 7): Raisonnement théologique et raisonnement juridique', in Aland, K. & Cross, F. C., edd.,  Studia patristica  i, Texte und Untersuchungen 63 (Berlin) 209-20
Hadot, P. (1969) 'Zur Vorgeschichte des Begri◊s "Existenz", υ/πα!ρχειν, bei den Stoikern',  AGP  13 (1969) 115-27
Hadot, P. (1979) 'Les divisions des parties de la philosophie dans l'antiquité',  Museum Helveticum  36, 201-23
Hadot, P. (1980) 'Sur divers sens du mot  pragma  dans la tradition philosophique grecque', in Aubenque (1980) 309-19
Hadot, P. (1987) 'Théologie, exégèse, révélation, écriture dans la philosophie grecque', in Tardieu (1987) 13-34
Hadot, P. (1991)  Philosophie als Lebensform, Geistige Übungen in der Antike (Berlin) Hagendahl, H. (1958)  Latin Fathers and the Classics: A Study on the Apologists, Jerome and Other Christian Writers (Gothenburg)
Hagendahl, H. (1967)  Augustine and the Latin Classics, Studia Graeca et Latina Gothoburgensia 20 (Gothenburg)
Hager, P. (1982) 'Chrysippus' theory of pneuma',  Prudentia  14, 97-108
Hagius, H. (1979) 'The Stoic theory of the parts of speech' (dissertation Columbia) Hahm, D. E. (1972) 'Chrysippus' solution to the Democritean dilemma of the cone', Isis  63, 205-20
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
850
 Bibliography
Hahm, D. E. (1977)  The Origins of Stoic Cosmology (Columbus Ohio) Hahm, D. E. (1985) 'The Stoic theory of change', in Epp (1985) 39-56
Hahm, D. E. (1990) 'The ethical doxography of Arius Didymus', in Haase, W., ed., ANRW  ii 36.4 (Berlin/New York) 2935-3055
Hahm, D. E. (1991) 'Aristotle and the Stoics: a methodological crux',  AGPh  73, 297-311
Hahm, D. E. (1992) 'Diogenes Laertius vii: On the Stoics', in Haase, W., ed.,  ANRW  ii 36.6 (Berlin/New York) 4076-182
Hahm, D. E. (1995) 'Polybius' applied political theory', in Laks & Schofield (1995) 7-47
Hammerstaedt, J. (1992) 'Der Schlussteil von Philodems drittem Buch über Rhetorik', CErc  22, 9-117
Hankinson, R. J. (1987a) 'Evidence, externality and antecedence: inquiries into later Greek causal concepts',  Phronesis  32, 80-10 0
Hankinson, R. J. (1987b) 'Causes and empiricism: a problem in the interpretation of later Greek medical method',  Phronesis  32, 329-48
Hankinson, R. J. (1988a) 'Galen explains the elephant', in Matthen & Linsky (1988b) 135-58
Hankinson, R. J. (1988b) 'Stoicism, science, and divination', in Hankinson (1988c) 123-60
Hankinson, R. J., ed. (1988c)  Method, Medicine and Metaphysics, Studies in the Philosophy of Ancient Science,  Apeiron  suppl. vol. 21 (Edmonton) Hankinson, R. J. (1989) 'Galen and the best of all possible worlds',  CQ  39, 206-27
Hankinson, R. J. (1990) 'Saying the phenomena',  Phronesis  35, 194-215 (critical notice of von Staden 1989)
Hankinson, R. J. (1991)  Galen on the Therapeutic Method, Books i and ii (Oxford) Hankinson, R. J. (1992) 'Galen's philosophical eclecticism', in Haase, W., ed.,  ANRW  ii 36.5 (Berlin/New York) 3505-22
Hankinson, R. J. (1993) 'Actions and passions: a◊ection, emotion, and moral self-management in Galen's philosophical psychology', in Brunschwig & Nussbaum (1993) 184-222
Hankinson, R. J. (1995)  The Sceptics (London)
Hankinson, R. J. (1998)  Galen on Antecedent Causes (Cambridge) Harder, R. (1960) 'Quelle oder Tradition?', in  Les Sources de Plotin, Fondation Hardt 5
(Vandœuvres/Genève) 325-32
Hardie, W. F. R. (1965) 'The final good in Aristotle's ethics',  Philosophy  40, 277-95
Hardie, W. F. R. (1968)  Aristotle's Ethical Theory (Oxford) Harris, C. R. S. (1973)  The Heart and the Vascular System in Ancient Greek Medicine from Alcmaeon to Galen (Oxford)
Hegel, G. (1983)  Lectures on the History of Philosophy, transl. Haldane, E. S. & Simson, F. 
H. (repr. London/New Jersey 1983)
Heil, J. (1992)  The Nature of True Minds (Cambridge)
Heine, O (1869) 'Kritische Beiträge zum siebenten Buche des Laertios Diogenes', Jahrbücher für classische Philologie  99, 611-28
Henrichs, A. (1974) 'Die Kritik der stoischen Theologie im  PHerc.  1428',  CErc  4, 5-32
Henrichs, A. (1975) 'Two doxographical notes: Democritus and Prodicus on religion', HSPh  79, 93-123
Herbermann, C.-P. (1991) 'Antike Etymologie', in Schmitter (1991) 353-76
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
 Bibliography
851
Hershbell, J. P. (1992a) 'Plutarch and Stoicism', in Haase, W., ed.,  ANRW  ii 36.5
(Berlin/New York) 3336-52
Hershbell, J. P. (1992b) 'Plutarch and Epicureanism', in Haase, W., ed.,  ANRW  ii 36.5
(Berlin/New York) 3353-83
Hicks, R. D., ed. (1925) Diogenes Laertius:  Lives of Eminent Philosophers, LCL, 2 vols. 
(London/Cambridge, Mass.; various repr.)
Hintikka, J. & Remes, U. (1974)  The Method of Analysis, Its Geometrical Origin and its General Significance (Dordrecht/Boston)
Hirzel, R. (1877-83)  Untersuchungen zu Ciceros philosophischen Schriften, 3 vols. in 4
(Leipzig; repr. Hildesheim 1964)
Hobein, H. (1929) 'Sphairos (3)', in  Pauly Wissowa, Realencyclopädie  3.a, cols. 1683-93
Höistad, R. (1948)  Cynic Hero and Cynic King: Studies in the Cynic Conception of Man (Uppsala)
Hoenigswald, H. M. & Wiener, L. F., edd. (1987)  Biological Metaphor and Cladistic Classification: An Interdisciplinary Perspective (London) Hossenfelder, M. (1985)  Die Philosophie der Antike 3: Stoa, Epikureismus und Skepsis (Munich)
Hossenfelder, M. (1988) 'Epicurus-hedonist malgré lui', in Schofield & Striker (1986a) 245-63
Hossenfelder, M. (1991a)  Epikur (Munich)
Hossenfelder, M. (1991b) 'Epikureer', in Schmitter (1991) 217-37
Hoven, R. (1971)  Stoïcisme et stoïciens face au problème de l'au-delà, Bibliothèque de la Faculté de Philosophie et Lettres de l' Université de Liège, fasc. 197 (Paris) Huby, P. M. (1967) 'The first discovery of the freewill problem',  Philosophy  42, 353-62
Huby, P. M. (1978) 'Epicurus' attitude to Democritus',  Phronesis, 23, 80-6
Huby, P. M. & Neal, G. C., edd. (1989)  The Criterion of Truth, Essays written in honour of George Kerferd (Liverpool)
Hülser, K.-H. (1987-8)  Die Fragmente zur Dialektik der Stoiker.  4 vols. (Stuttgart/Bad Cannstatt)
Hülser, K.-H. (1992) 'Sextus Empiricus und die Stoiker',  Elenchos  13, 233-76
Humbert, J. (1967)  Socrate et les Petits Socratiques (Paris) Hunt, H. A. K. (1976)  A Physical Interpretation of the Universe. The Doctrines of Zeno the Stoic (Melbourne)
Hussey, E. (1990) 'The beginnings of epistemology: from Homer to Philolaus', in Everson (1990a) 11-38
Ide, H. A. (1992) 'Chrysippus's response to Diodorus's Master Argument',  History and Philosophy of Logic  13, 133-48
Ierodiakonou, K. (1990) 'Analysis in Stoic logic' (dissertation London) Ierodiakonou, K. (1993a) 'The Stoic indemonstrables in the later tradition', in Döring
& Ebert (1993) 187-20 0
Ierodiakonou, K. (1993b) 'The Stoic division of philosophy',  Phronesis  38, 57-74
Ierodiakonou, K., ed. (1999)  Topics in Stoic Philosophy (Oxford) Immisch, O. (1928) 'Wirklichkeit und Literaturform',  RhM  78, 113-23
Indelli, G., ed. (1978) Polistrato:  Sul disprezzo irrazionale delle opinioni popolari (Naples) Indelli, G. & Tsouna-McKirahan, V. (1995) Philodemus:  On Choices and Avoidances (Naples)
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
852
 Bibliography
Innes, D. (1989) 'Philodemus', in Kennedy (1989) 215-19
Inwood, B. (1981) 'The origin of Epicurus' concept of void',  CPh  76, 273-85
Inwood, B. (1984) 'Hierocles. Theory and argument in the second century ad',  OSAP  2, 151-84
Inwood, B. (1985)  Ethics and Human Action in Early Stoicism (Oxford) Inwood, B. (1986) (rev. Asmis 1984)  CPh  81, 349-54
Inwood, B. (1991) 'Chrysippus on extension & the void',  RIPh  3, 245-66
Inwood, B. (1993) 'Seneca and psychological dualism', in Brunschwig & Nussbaum (1993) 150-83
Inwood, B. (1995) (rev. Annas 1993a)  AncPhil  15, 647-65
Inwood, B. & Mansfeld, J., edd. (1997)  Assent and Argument: Studies in Cicero's Academic Books, Proceedings of the 7th Symposium Hellenisticum (Utrecht, August 21-25, 1995), PhA 76 (Leiden)
Ioppolo, A. M. (1980a)  Aristone di Chio e lo stoicismo antico,  Elenchos  1 (Naples) Ioppolo, A. M. (1980b) 'Anassarco e il cinismo', in Romano (1980) 499-506
Ioppolo, A. M. (1985a) 'L'astrologia nello stoicismo antico', in Giannantoni & Vegetti (1985) 73-92
Ioppolo, A. M. (1985b) 'Lo stoicismo di Erillo',  Phronesis  30, 58-78
Ioppolo, A. M. (1986)  Opinione e scienza: il dibattito tra Stoici e Accademici nel iii e nel ii secolo a. C.,  Elenchos  12 (Naples)
Ioppolo, A. M. (1990) 'Presentation and assent: a physical and cognitive problem in early Stoicism',  CQ  40, 433-49
Ioppolo, A. M. (1992) 'Sesto Empirico e l'Accademia scettica',  Elenchos  13, 169-20 0
Irigoin, J. (1994) 'Les éditions de textes', in Montanari (1994), 39-82
Irwin, T. (1986) 'Stoic and Aristotelian conceptions of happiness', in Schofield & Striker (1986a) 205-44
Isnardi Parente, M. (1974a (1983))  Opere di Epicuro, Classici UTET (Turin; repr. 1983) Isnardi Parente, M. (1974b) 'Carattere e struttura dell'Accademia antica', in Zeller, E. 
& Mondolfo, R.  La filosofia dei Greci nel suo sviluppo storico, a cura di M. Isnardi Parente (Florence) vol. iii.2, 861-77
Isnardi Parente, M. (1980) 'Stoici, Epicurei, e il "motus sine causa"',  RSF  35, 23-31
Isnardi Parente, M. (1985-6) 'Filosofia postaristotelica o filosofia ellenistica: storia di un concetto storiografico',  Annali dell'Istituto Italiano per gli Studi Storici  9, 165-93
Isnardi Parente, M. (1986) 'L'Accademia antica: interpretazioni recenti e problemi di metodo',  RFIC  114, 350-78
Isnardi Parente, M. (1987) 'Una poetica di incerto autore in Filodemo', in  Filologia e forme letterarie, Studi o◊erti a Francesco Della Corte (Urbino) v 81-98
Isnardi Parente, M. (1992) 'Sesto, Platone, l'Accademia antica e i Pitagorici',  Elenchos 13, 120-68
Jackson, H. (1920) 'Aristotle's lecture-room and lectures',  JPh  35, 191-20 0
Jacoby, F. (1902)  Apollodors Chronik: eine Sammlung der Fragmente (Berlin; repr. New York 1973)
Janko, R. (1991) 'Philodemus'  On poems  and Aristotle's  On poets',  CErc  21, 5-64
Janko, R. (1995) 'Reconstructing Philodemus'  On poems', in Obbink (1995) 69-96
Jerphagnon, L., Lagrée, J. & Delattre, D., edd. (1994)  Ainsi parlaient les Anciens: In honorem Jean-Paul Dumont (Lille)
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
 Bibliography
853
Jocelyn, H. D. (1976/7) 'The ruling class of the Roman republic and Greek philosophers',  BRL  59, 323-66
Joly, R. (1956)  Le Thème Philosophique des Genres de Vie dans l'Antiquité Classique (Brussels) Jones, H. (1989)  The Epicurean Tradition (London/New York) Joosen, J. C. & Waszink, J. H. (1950) 'Allegorese', in  RAC  Bd. 1 (Stuttgart) 283-93
Joseph, J. E. (1990) 'The abandonment of  nomos  in Greek linguistic thought',  HL  17, 1-13
Kahn, Ch. (1983) 'Arius as a doxographer', in Fortenbaugh (1983) 3-14
Kahn, Ch. (1985) 'Democritus and the origins of moral psychology',  AJPh  106, 1-31
Kahn, Ch. (1988) 'Discovering the will: from Aristotle to Augustine', in Dillon & Long (1988) 234-59
Kassel, R. (1991) 'Der Peripatetiker Prytanis', in Nesselrath, H.-G., ed.,  Kleine Schriften (Berlin/New York) 351-2
Kattenbusch, F. (1930) 'Die Entstehung einer christlichen Theologie. Zur Geschichte der Ausdrücke θεολογι!α, θεολογει4ν, θεολο!γο',  Zeitschrift für Theologie und Kirche  N. F. 11, 161-205
Kemp, A. (1991) 'The emergence of autonomous Greek grammar', in Schmitter (1991) 302-33
Kennedy, G. A., ed. (1989a)  The Cambridge History of Literary Criticism, vol. 1: Classical Criticism (Cambridge)
Kennedy, G. A. (1989b) 'Hellenistic literary and philosophical scholarship', in Kennedy (1989a) 20 0-14
Kennedy, G. A. (1994a) 'Peripatetic rhetoric as it appears (and disappears) in Quintilian', in Fortenbaugh & Mirhady (1994) 174-82
Kennedy, G. A. (1994b)  A New History of Classical Rhetoric (Princeton N.J.) Kenney, E. J. (1972) 'The historical imagination of Lucretius',  G&R  19, 12-24
Kenny, A. (1992)  Aristotle on the Perfect Life (Oxford) Kerferd, G. B. (1971) 'Epicurus' doctrine of the soul',  Phronesis  16, 80-96
Kerferd, G. B. (1972) 'The search for personal identity in Stoic thought',  BRL  55, 177-96
Kerferd, G. B. (1978a) 'What does the wise man know?', in Rist (1978b) 125-36
Kerferd, G. B. (1978b) 'The problem of synkatathesis and katalepsis', in Brunschwig (1978a) 251-72
Kerferd, G. B. (1978c) 'The origin of evil in Stoic thought',  BRL  60, 482-94
Kidd, I. G. (1971) 'Stoic intermediates and the end for man', in Long (1971a) 150-72; repr. from  CQ  5 (1955) 181-94
Kidd, I. G. (1971a) 'Posidonius on emotions', in Long (1971a) 20 0-15
Kidd, I. G. (1978a) 'Philosophy and science in Posidonius',  A & A  24, 7-15
Kidd, I. G. (1978b) 'Posidonius and logic', in Brunschwig (1978a) 273-83
Kidd, I. G. (1978c) 'Moral actions and rules in Stoic ethics', in Rist (1978b) 247-58
Kidd, I. G. (1983) ' Euemptosia -  proneness to disease', in Fortenbaugh (1983) 107-13
Kidd, I. G. (1988) Posidonius, ii:  The Commentary, 2 vols., Cambridge Classical Texts and Commentaries 14 A & B (Cambridge) (vol. i see Edelstein & Kidd 1972) Kidd, I. G. (1989) ' Orthos logos  as a criterion of truth in the Stoa', in Huby & Neal (1989) 137-50
Kienle, W. von (1961)  Die Berichte über die Sukzessionen der Philosophen in der hellenistischen und spätantiken Literatur (Berlin)
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
854
 Bibliography
Kindstrand, J. F. (1976) Bion of Borysthenes:  A Collection of the Fragments with Introduction and Commentary, Acta Universitatis Upsaliensis, Studia Graeca Upsaliensia 11 (Uppsala)
Kindstrand, J. F. (1986) 'Diogenes Laertius and the  chreia  tradition', in Giannantoni (1986) 217-44
Kindstrand, J. F., ed. (1991)  Gnomica Basileensia, Acta Universitatis Upsaliensis, Studia Byzantina Upsaliensia 2 (Uppsala/Stockholm)
Kirk, G. S. (1955) 'Some problems in Anaximander',  CQ  5, 21-38; repr. in Furley, D. J. 
& Allen, R. E., edd. (1970)  Studies in Presocratic Philosophy,  vol. i (London) 323-49
Kleve, K. (1963)  Gnosis Theon. Die Lehre von der natürlichen Gotteserkenntnis in der epikureischen Theologie. Ausgangspunkt der Studie: Cicero,  De natura deorum  i, SO suppl. 19 (Oslo)
Kleve, K. (1979) 'The Epicurean  isonomia  and its sceptical refutation',  SO  54, 27-35
Kleve, K. (1980) 'Id facit exiguum clinamen',  SO  55, 27-31
Kleve, K. (1983) 'Scurra Atticus. The Epicurean view of Socrates', in AA. VV. (1983) i 227-53
Kleve, K. (1989) 'Lucretius in Herculaneum',  CErc  19, 5-27
Kneale, W. & Kneale, M. (1962)  The Development of Logic (Oxford; repr. with corr. 1975, 1986)
Knoepfler, D. (1991)  La Vie de Ménédème d'Erétrie de Diogène Laërce. Contribution à l'histoire et à la critique du texte des  Vies des philosophes, Schweizerische Beiträge zur Altertumswissenschaft 21 (Basle)
Knoepfler, D. (1995) 'Les relations des cités Eubéennes avec Antigone Gonatas et la chronologie delphique au début de l'époque étolienne',  BCH  119, 137-59
Knorr, W. R. (1976)  The Evolution of the Euclidean Elements: a Study of the Theory of Incommensurable Magnitudes and its Significance for Early Greek Geometry (Dordrecht)
Knorr, W. R. (1982) 'Infinity and continuity. The interaction of mathematics and philosophy in antiquity', in Kretzmann, N., ed.,  Infinity and Continuity in Ancient and Medieval Thought (Ithaca/London) 112-45
Knorr, W. R. (1986)  The Ancient Tradition of Geometric Problems (Boston/Basle/Stuttgart) Knorr, W. R. (1989)  Textual Studies in Ancient and Medieval Geometry (Boston/Basle/Berlin)
Koerner, K. (1987) 'On Schleicher and trees', in Hoenigswald & Wiener (1987) 109-13
Kollesch, J. (1966) 'Zur Geschichte des medizinischen Lehrbuchs in der Antike', in Blaser, R. & Buess, H., edd.,  Aktuelle Probleme aus der Geschichte der Medizin (Basle/New York)
Kollesch, J. (1973)  Untersuchungen zu den pseudogalenischen  Definitiones medicae, Schriften zur Geschichte und Kultur der Antike 7 (Berlin)
Kollesch, J. & Nickel, D., edd. (1993)  Galen und das hellenistische Erbe, Sudho◊s Archiv Beih. 32 (Stuttgart)
Konstan, D. (1972) 'Epicurus on "up" & "down" ( Letter to Herodotus § 60)',  Phronesis 17, 269-78
Konstan, D. (1973)  Some Aspects of Epicurean Psychology (Leiden) Konstan, D. (1979) 'Problems in Epicurean physics',  Isis, 70, 394-418; repr. in Anton
& Preuss (1983) 431-64
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
 Bibliography
855
Konstan, D. (1982) 'Ancient atomism and its heritage: minimal parts',  AncPhil  2, 60-75
Krämer, H. J. (1971)  Platonismus und Hellenistische Philosophie (Berlin/New York) Krämer, H. J. (1980) 'Epikur und die hedonistische Tradition',  Gymnasium  87, 294-326
Krämer, H. J. (1983) 'Die ältere Akademie', in Flashar (1983) 1-174
Kraus, H.-J. (1982)  Geschichte der historisch-kritischen Erforschung des Alten Testaments (Neukirschen-Vluyn, 3rd edn)
Kraus, M. (1987)  Name und Sache: Ein Problem im frühgriechischen Denken, Studien zur antiken Philosophie 14 (Amsterdam)
Kristeller, P. O. (1993)  Greek Philosophers of the Hellenistic Age (New York), transl. of Filosofi greci dell'  età ellenistica (Pisa 1991) Kroll, W. (1940) 'Rhetorik', in  Pauly Wissowa, Realencyclopädie  Suppl. 7, cols. 1039-138
Krumme, L. (1941)  Die Kritik der stoischen Theologie in Ciceros Schrift De natura deorum (Düsseldorf )
Küchler, M. (1979)  Frühjüdische Weisheitstraditionen, Orbis biblicus et orientalis 26
(Göttingen)
Kümmel, W. G. (1970)  Das Neue Testament,  Geschichte der Erforschung seiner Probleme (Freiburg/Munich, orig. edn 1958)
Kudlien, F. (1964) 'Herophilos und der Beginn der medizinischen Skepsis',  Gesnerus 21, 1-13, repr. in Flashar, H., ed. (1971)  Antike Medizin, Wege der Forschung 221
(Darmstadt) 280-95
Kudlien, F. (1969) 'Antike Anatomie und menschlicher Leichnam',  Hermes  97, 78-94
Kudlien, F. (1989) 'Hippokrates-Rezeption im Hellenismus', in Baader, G. & Winau, R., edd.,  Die Hippokratischen Epidemien. Theorie - Praxis - Tradition, Sudho◊s Archiv Beih. 27 (Stuttgart) 355-76
Lachenaud, G., ed. (1993) Plutarque:  Œuvres morales, T. 12.2:  Opinions des philosophes (Paris)
La◊ranque, M. (1964)  Poseidonios d'Apamée, Essai de mise au point (Paris) Laks, A. (1976) 'Edition critique commentée de la "Vie d'Epicure" dans Diogène Laërce (x, 1-34)', in Bollack & Laks (1976) 1-118
Laks, A. (1983)  Diogène d'Apollonie: La dernière cosmologie présocratique, Cahiers de Philologie 9 (Lille)
Laks, A. & Most, G. W., edd. (1993a) Théophraste:  Métaphysique (Paris) Laks, A. (1993b) 'Annicéris et les plaisirs psychiques. Quelques préalables doxographiques', in Brunschwig & Nussbaum (1993) 18-49
Laks, A. (1996) 'Du témoignage comme fragment', in Most (1996) 273-88
Laks, A. & Schofield, M., edd. (1995)  Justice and Generosity: Studies in Hellenistic Social and Political Philosophy, Proceedings of the Sixth Symposium Hellenisticum (Cambridge)
Lamberton, R. & Keaney, J. J., edd. (1992)  Homer's Ancient Readers: The Hermeneutics of Greek Epic's Earliest Exegetes (Princeton)
Lange, F. A. (1974)  Geschichte des Materialismus und Kritik seiner Bedeutung in der Gegenwart, Bd. 1: Geschichte des Materialismus bis auf Kant (Iserlohn 1866, 111921; repr. Frankfurt a. M. 1974 with introd. by A. Schmidt) Lapidge, M. (1973) 'Archai and stoicheia: a problem in Stoic cosmology',  Phronesis  18, 240-78
Lapidge, M. (1978) 'Stoic cosmology', in Rist (1978) 161-86
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
856
 Bibliography
Laursen, S. (1987) 'Epicurus,  On nature  Book xxv',  CErc  17, 77-8
Laursen, S. (1988) 'Epicurus  On nature  xxv (Long-Sedley 20, B, C and J)',  CErc  18, 7-18
Laursen, S. (1995) 'The early parts of Epicurus,  On nature, 25th book',  CErc  25, 5-109
Lausberg, M. (1970)  Untersuchungen zu Senecas Fragmenten, Untersuchungen zur antiken Literatur und Geschichte 7 (Berlin)
Le Boulluec, see: Boulluec, Le
Lebedev, A. (1984) 'Φυ!σι ταλαντευ!ουσα. Neglected fragments of Democritus and Metrodorus of Chios',  Proceedings of the Ist International Congress on Democritus (Xanthi) vol. 2, 13-8
Lee, Tae-Soo (1984)  Die Griechische Tradition der Aristotelischen Syllogistik in der Spätantike: eine Untersuchung über die Kommentare zu den  Analytica Priora  von Alexander Aphrodisiensis, Ammonius und Philoponus, Hypomnemata 79
(Göttingen)
Leeman, A. D. & Pinkster, H. (1981) M. Tullius Cicero:  De Oratore  libri iii. 
Kommentar, 1. Bd.: Buch i, 1-165 (Heidelberg)
Lefèvre, F. (1995) 'La chronologie du iiie siècle à Delphes, d'après les actes amphictioniques (280-20 0)', 161-208
Lefkowitz, M. R. (1981)  The Lives of the Greek Poets (London) Lemke, D. (1973)  Die Theologie Epikurs: Versuch einer Rekonstruktion, Zetemata 57
(Munich)
Lennox, J. (1985) 'Theophrastus on the limits of teleology', in Fortenbaugh  et al. (1985) 143-63
Leo, F. (1901)  Die Griechisch-Römische Biographie nach ihrer literarischen Form (Leipzig; repr. Darmstadt 1965)
Lesher, J. H. (1978) 'Xenophanes' scepticism',  Phronesis  23, 1-21
Lévy, C. (1978) 'Scepticisme et dogmatisme dans l'Académie: "l'ésotéricisme de Arcésilas"',  REL  56, 335-48
Lévy, C. (1990) 'Platon, Arcésilas, Carnéade — Réponse à J. Annas',  RMM  95, 293-306
Lévy, C. (1992)  Cicero Academicus, Recherches sur les  Académiques  et sur la philosophie cicéronienne (Rome)
Lévy, C. (1993) 'Le concept de  doxa  des Stoïciens à Philon d' Alexandrie: essai d' étude diachronique', in Brunschwig & Nussbaum (1993) 250-84
Lévy, C. (1996) 'Doxographie et philosophie chez Cicéron', in id., ed.,  Le concept de nature à Rome. La physique (Paris) 109-23
Lilla, S. R. C. (1970)  Clement of Alexandria: A Study in Christian Platonism and Gnosticism (Oxford)
Lloyd, A. C. (1971) 'Grammar and metaphysics in the Stoa', in Long (1971a) 58-74
Lloyd, A. C. (1978a) 'Emotion and decision in Stoic psychology', in Rist (1978) pp. 
233-46
Lloyd, A. C. (1978b) 'Definite propositions and the concept of reference', in Brunschwig (1978a) 285-96
Lloyd, G. E. R. (1964) 'Experiment in early Greek philosophy and medicine',  PCPhS
n.s. 10, 50-72; repr. in Lloyd (1991a) 70-99
Lloyd, G. E. R. (1975) 'A note on Erasistratus of Ceos',  JHS  95, 172-5
Lloyd, G. E. R. (1983)  Science, Folklore, and Ideology: Studies in the Life Sciences in Ancient Greece (Cambridge)
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
 Bibliography
857
Lloyd, G. E. R. (1991a)  Methods and Problems in Greek Science (Cambridge) Lloyd, G. E. R. (1991b) 'Galen on Hellenistics and Hippocrateans: contemporary battles and past authorities', in Lloyd (1991a) 398-416; also pr. in Kollesch & Nickel (1993) 157-64 (125-43)
Lloyd-Jones, H. & Parsons, P., edd. (1981)  Supplementum Hellenisticum (Berlin) Long, A. A. (1967) 'Carneades and the Stoic telos',  Phronesis  12, 59-90
Long, A. A. (1968) 'Aristotle's legacy to Stoic ethics',  BICS  15, 72-85
Long, A. A. (1970-1) 'The logical basis of Stoic ethics',  PAS  71, 85-104; repr. in Long (1996) 134-55
Long, A. A., ed. (1971a)  Problems in Stoicism (London; repr. 1996) Long, A. A. (1971b) 'Freedom and determinism in the Stoic theory of human action', in Long (1971a) 173-99
Long, A. A. (1971c) 'Language and thought in Stoicism', in Long (1971a) 75-113
Long, A. A. (1971d) ' Aisthesis,  prolepsis  and linguistic theory in Epicurus',  BICS  18, 114-33
Long, A. A. (1974)  Hellenistic Philosophy: Stoics, Epicureans, Sceptics (London; 2nd edn, Berkeley 1986)
Long, A. A. (1975-6) 'Heraclitus and Stoicism',  Philosophia  5/6, 133-56; repr. in Long (1996) 35-57
Long, A. A. (1976) 'The early Stoic concept of moral choice', in  Images of Man in Ancient and Medieval Thought. Studies Presented to G. Verbeke (Leuven) 77-92
Long, A. A. (1977) 'Chance and natural law in Epicureanism',  Phronesis  22, 63-88
Long, A. A. (1978a) 'Timon of Phlius: Pyrrhonist and satirist',  PCPhS  204 (n.s. 24) 68-91
Long, A. A. (1978b) 'The Stoic distinction between truth and the true', in Brunschwig (1978a) 297-316
Long, A. A. (1978c) 'Dialectic and the Stoic sage', in Rist (1978b) 101-24; repr. in Long (1996) 85-106
Long, A. A. (1981) 'Aristotle and the history of Greek scepticism', in O'Meara (1981) 79-106
Long, A. A. (1982a) 'Astrology: arguments pro and contra', in Barnes  et al. (1982a) 165-92
Long, A. A. (1982b) 'Soul and body in Stoicism',  Phronesis  27 (1982) 34-57; repr. in Long (1996) 224-49
Long, A. A. (1983a) 'Arius Didymus and the exposition of Stoic ethics', in Fortenbaugh (1983) 41-66; repr. in Long (1996) 107-33
Long, A. A. (1983b) 'Greek ethics after MacIntyre and the Stoic community of reason', AncPhil  3, 184-99; repr. in Long (1996) 156-78
Long, A. A. (1985) 'The Stoics on world-conflagration and everlasting recurrence', in Epp (1985) 13-37
Long, A. A. (1986a) 'Diogenes Laertius, life of Arcesilaus', in Giannantoni (1986a) 429-49
Long, A. A. (1986b) 'Pleasure and social utility - the virtues of being Epicurean', in Flashar & Gigon (1986) 283-316
Long, A. A. (1988a) 'Stoic eudaimonism', in Cleary & Shartin (1988) 77-101; repr. in Long (1996) 179-201
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
858
 Bibliography
Long, A. A. (1988b) 'Socrates in Hellenistic philosophy',  CQ  38, 150-71; repr. in Long (1996) 1-34
Long, A. A. (1988c) 'Reply to Jonathan Barnes, "Epicurean Signs"',  OSAP, suppl. vol., 135-44
Long, A. A. (1988d) (rev. Asmis 1984)  PhR  97, 249-51
Long, A. A. (1990) 'Scepticism about Gods in Hellenistic philosophy', in Gri√th, M. 
& Mastronarde, D. J., edd.,  Cabinet of the Muses, Essays on Classical and Comparative Literature in Honor of Thomas G. Rosenmeyer (Atlanta) 279-91
Long, A. A. (1991a) 'Representation and the self in Stoicism', in Everson (1991a) 102-20; repr. in Long (1996) 264-85
Long, A. A. (1991b) 'The harmonics of Stoic virtue',  OSAP, suppl. vol. 1991, 97-116; repr. in Long (1996) 202-23
Long, A. A. (1992) 'Stoic readings of Homer', in Lamberton & Keaney (1992) 41-66; repr. in Long (1996) 58-84
Long, A. A. (1993a) 'Hellenistic ethics and philosophical power', in Green, P., ed., Hellenistic History and Culture (Berkeley/Los Angeles) 138-56
Long, A. A. (1993b) 'Hierocles on  oikeiosis  and self-perception', in Boudouris, K., ed., Hellenistic Philosophy (Athens) 93-102; repr. in Long (1996) 250-63
Long, A. A. (1996)  Stoic Studies (Cambridge)
Long, A. A. (1997) 'Theophrastus and the Stoa', in van Ophuijsen & van Raalte (1997) 357-85
Long, A. A. & Sedley, D. N., edd. (1987)  The Hellenistic Philosophers, 2 vols.: i. 
Translations of the principal sources with philosophical commentary; ii. Greek and Latin texts with notes and bibliography (Cambridge, various reprints) Longo Auricchio, F. (1978) 'La scuola di Epicuro',  CErc  8, 21-37
Longo Auricchio, F., ed. (1988) Ermarco:  Frammenti, La scuola di Epicuro 6 (Naples) Longo Auricchio, F. & Tepedino Guerra, A. (1981) 'Aspetti e problemi della dissidenza epicurea',  CErc  11, 25-40
Lonie, I. M. (1964) 'Erasistratus, the Erasistrateans, and Aristotle',  BHM  38, 426-43
Luria, S. (1932) 'Die Infinitesimaltheorie des antiken Atomisten',  QGM, B 2, 106-85
Luschnat, O. (1958) 'Das Problem des ethischen Fortschritts in der alten Stoa', Philologus  102, 178-214
Lynch, J. P. (1972)  Aristotle's School. A History of a Greek Educational Institution (Berkeley)
Maccoll, N. (1869)  The Greek Sceptics from Pyrrho to Sextus (London) MacKendrick, P. (1989)  The Philosophical Books of Cicero (London; repr. 1995) MacKim, R. (1984) 'Democritus against Scepticism: all sense-impressions are true', in Proceedings of the Ist International Congress on Democritus (Xanthi) vol. i, 281-90
Maconi, H. (1988) 'Nova non philosophandi philosophia',  OSAP  6, 231-53
Malaparte, C. (1929) 'Ritratto di Pirrone',  Pegaso  1, 44-7
Manetti, D. (1986) 'Note di lettura dell'Anonimo Londinese - Prolegomena ad una nuova edizione',  ZPE  63, 57-74
Manetti, D. (1994) 'Autografi e incompiuti: il caso dell'Anonimo Londinese P. Lit. 
Lond. 165',  ZPE  10 0, 47-58
Manetti, G., ed. (1995) Knowledge through Signs: Ancient Semiotic Theories and Practices (Turnhout)
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
 Bibliography
859
Mangoni, C., ed. (1993)  Filodemo, Il quinto libro della Poetica (PHerc. 1425 e 1538), La scuola di Epicuro 14 (Naples)
Mannebach, E., ed. (1961)  Aristippi et Cyrenaicorum Fragmenta (Leiden/Cologne) Manolidis, G. (1987)  Die Rolle der Physiologie in der Philosophie Epikurs,  Monographien zur philosophischen Forschung 241 (Frankfurt a.M.)
Mansfeld, J. (1978) 'Zeno of Citium',  Mnemosyne  31, 134-78
Mansfeld, J. (1979) 'Providence and the destruction of the universe in early Stoic thought', in Vermaseren, M. J., ed.,  Studies in Hellenistic Religions, EPRO 78
(Leiden) 129-88; repr. in Mansfeld (1989b) study i
Mansfeld, J. (1981) 'Protagoras on epistemological obstacles and persons', in Kerferd, G. B., ed.,  The Sophists and their Legacy, Proceedings of the Fourth International Colloquium on Ancient Philosophy, Hermes Einzelschr. 44 (Wiesbaden) 38-53
Mansfeld, J. (1983a) 'Intuitionism and formalism: Zeno's definition of geometry in a fragment of L. Calvenus Taurus',  Phronesis  28, 59-74
Mansfeld, J. (1983b) ' Techne: a new fragment of Chrysippus',  GRBS  24, 57-65; repr. in Mansfeld (1989b) study iii
Mansfeld, J. (1986) 'Diogenes Laertius on Stoic philosophy', in Giannantoni (1986a) 295-382; repr. in Mansfeld (1990b) 343-428
Mansfeld, J. (1988a) 'Philosophy in the service of Scripture: Philo's exegetical strategies', in Dillon & Long (1988) 70-102; repr. in Mansfeld (1989b) study x Mansfeld, J. (1988b) (rev. Goulet-Cazé 1986)  CR  38, 162-3
Mansfeld, J. (1989a) 'Gibt es Spuren von Theophrasts  Phys. op. bei Cicero?', in Fortenbaugh & Steinmetz (1989) 133-58; repr. in Mansfeld (1990b) 238-63
Mansfeld, J. (1989b)  Studies in Later Greek Philosophy and Gnosticism, Variorum Collected Studies Series 292 (London)
Mansfeld, J. (1989c) 'Chrysippus and the  Placita',  Phronesis  34, 311-42
Mansfeld, J. (1990a) 'Doxography and dialectic: The  Sitz im Leben  of the "Placita'' ', in Haase, W., ed.,  ANRW  ii 36.4 (Berlin/New York) 3056-229
Mansfeld, J. (1990b)  Studies in the Historiography of Greek Philosophy (Assen/Maastricht) Mansfeld, J. (1992a)  Heresiography in Context: Hippolytus'  Elenchos  as a Source for Greek Philosophy, PhA 56 (Leiden)
Mansfeld, J. (1992b) 'A Theophrastean excursus on God and nature and its aftermath in Hellenistic thought',  Phronesis  37, 314-35
Mansfeld, J. (1992c) ' Physikai doxai  and  problemata physika  from Aristotle to Aëtius (and beyond)', in Fortenbaugh & Gutas (1992) 63-111
Mansfeld, J. (1992d) 'The idea of the will in Chrysippus, Posidonius, and Galen', in Cleary & Wians (1992) 107-45
Mansfeld, J. (1993) 'Aspects of Epicurean theology',  Mnemosyne  46, 172-210
Mansfeld, J. (1994a) 'Epicurus peripateticus', in Alberti, A., ed.,  Realtà e ragione, Studi di filosofia antica (Florence) 29-47
Mansfeld, J. (1994b)  Prolegomena: Questions to be Settled Before the Study of an Author, or a Text, PhA 61 (Leiden)
Mansfeld, J. (1995) 'Aenesidemus and the Academics' in L. Ayres (ed.),  The Passionate Intellect: Festschrift I. G. Kidd, RUSCH vol. vii (New Brunswick/London) 235-47
Mansfeld, J. (1998) 'Doxographical studies, Quellenforschung, tabular presentation, and other varieties of comparativism', in Burkert  et al. (1998) 16-40
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
860
 Bibliography
Mansfeld, J. & Runia, D. T. (1997)  Aëtiana: The Method and Intellectual Context of a Doxographer, vol. i: The Sources, PhA 73 (Leiden)
Manuwald, A. (1972)  Die Prolepsislehre Epikurs, Habelts Dissertationsdrucke, Reihe klassische Philologie 15 (Bonn)
Manuwald, B. (1980)  Der Aufbau der Lukrezischen Kulturentstehungslehre, AAWM, Geistes- und sozialwiss. Klasse 1980.3 (Mainz/Wiesbaden)
Marco, M. di, ed. (1989) Timone di Fliunte:  Silli, Testi e commenti 10 (Rome) Marelli, C. (1981) 'La medicina empirica ed il suo sistema epistemologico', in Giannantoni (1981a) ii, 657-76
Maróth, M. (1989)  Ibn Sina und die Peripatetische 'Aussagenlogik', Islamic Philosophy and Theology 6 (Leiden)
Marrone, L. (1980) 'Il mentitore nel  PHerc. 307 (Questioni logiche di Crisippo)', in Proceed. XVIII Intern. Congr. Papyrology (Athens) i, 271-6
Marrone, L. (1982) 'Nuove letture nel  PHerc. 307 (Questioni Logiche di Crisippo)', CErc  12, 13-18
Marrone, L. (1984) 'Proposizione e predicato in Crisippo',  CErc  14, 135-46
Marrone, L. (1992) 'L'ambiguità verbale nel  PHerc. 307 (Questioni logiche di Crisippo)', in  Proceed. XIX Intern. Congr. Papyrology (Cairo) i, 261-7
Marrone, L. (1993) 'Gnoseologia stoica nel  PHerc. 307', in Franchi dell'Orto, L., ed., Ercolano 1738-1988. 250 anni di ricerca archeologica (Rome) 339-41
Marrone, L. (1997) 'Le questioni logichi di Crisippo ( PHerc  307)',  Cronache Ercolanesi 27, 83-10 0
Martini, E. (1899) 'Analecta laertiana', pt. 1,  Leipziger Studien zur classischen Philologie 19, 73-177
Mates, B. (1961)  Stoic Logic, University of California Publications in Philosophy 26 2nd edn (Berkeley; microfilm repr. Ann Arbor 1992)
Matthen, M., ed. (1987)  Aristotle Today — Essays on Aristotle's Ideal of Science (Edmonton) Matthen, M. (1988a) 'Empiricism and ontology in ancient medicine', in Hankinson (1988c) 98-121
Matthen, M. & Linsky, B., edd. (1988b)  Philosophy and Biology. Canadian Journal of Philosophy, suppl. vol. 14 (Alberta)
Mattingly, H. B. (1986) 'Scipio Aemilianus' eastern embassy',  CQ  NS 36, 491-5
Mau, J. (1954a)  Zum Problem des Infinitesimalen bei den Antiken Atomisten (Berlin) Mau, J. (1954b) 'Raum und Bewegung: zu Epikurs Brief an Herodot § 60',  Hermes  82, 13-24
Mau, J., ed. (1971) Plutarchi  Moralia, vol. v 2.1: x oratorum vitae; Placita philosophorum, Bibl. teubneriana (Leipzig)
Mau, J. (1973) 'Was there a special Epicurean mathematics?', in Lee, E. N., Mourelatos, A. P. D. & Rorty, R. M., edd.,  Exegesis and Argument. Studies presented to Gregory Vlastos (Assen) 421-30
Mauro, T. De & Formigaro, L., edd. (1990)  Leibniz, Humboldt and the Origins of Comparativism (Amsterdam/Philadelphia)
McDowell, J., ed. (1973) Plato:  Theaetetus (Oxford)
McDowell, J. H. (1980) 'Physicalism and primitive denotation: Field on Tarski', in Platts, M., ed.,  Reference, Truth and Reality (London) 111-30; first published in Erkenntnis  13 (1978) 131-52
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
 Bibliography
861
McDowell, J. (1985) 'Functionalism and anomalous monism', in LePore, E. & McLaughlin, B. P., edd.,  Actions and Events:  Perspectives on the Philosophy of Donald Davidson (Oxford/New York) 387-98
Méhat, A. (1966)  Etudes sur les 'Stromates'  de Clément d'Alexandrie, Patristica Sorbonensia 7 (Paris)
Meijering, R. (1987) 'Literary and Rhetorical Theories in Greek Scholia' (dissertation Groningen)
Mejer, J. (1978)  Diogenes Laertius and his Hellenistic Background, Hermes Einzelschr. 40
(Wiesbaden)
Mejer, J. (1992) 'Diogenes Laertius and the transmission of Greek philosophy', in Haase, W., ed.,  ANRW  ii 36.5 (Berlin/New York) 3556-602
Merlan, Ph. (1960)  Studies in Epicurus and Aristotle (Wiesbaden) Mette, H. J. (1984) 'Zwei Akademiker heute: Krantor und Arkesilaos',  Lustrum  26, 7-94
Mette, H. J. (1985) 'Weitere Akademiker heute: von Lakydes bis zu Kleitomachos', Lustrum  27, 39-148
Mignucci, M. (1978) 'Sur la logique modale des stoiciens', in Brunschwig (1978a) 317-46
Mignucci, M. (1988) 'The Stoic notion of relatives', in Barnes & Mignucci (1988a) 129-221
Mignucci, M. (1993) 'The Stoic  themata', in Döring & Ebert (1993) 217-38
Mills Patrick, M. (1899)  Sextus Empiricus and Greek Scepticism (Cambridge) Mills Patrick, M. (1929)  The Greek Sceptics (New York) Mitsis, P. (1988a)  Epicurus' Ethical Theory, Cornell studies in classical philology 48
(Ithaca/London)
Mitsis, P. (1988b) 'Epicurus on death and the duration of life', in Cleary & Shartin (1988) 303-22
Moles, J. L. (1995) 'The Cynics and politics', in Laks & Schofield (1995) 129-58
Momigliano, A. (1941) (rev. Farrington 1939)  JRS  31, 149-57, repr. in id. (1960)  Secondo contributo alla storia degli studi classici, Storia e letteratura 77 (Rome) 375-88
Momigliano, A. (1993)  The Development of Greek Biography, expanded edn (Cambridge, Mass.)
Mondolfo, R. (1934)  L'infinito nel pensiero dei Greci (Florence) Monet, A. (1996) '[Philodème,  Sur les sensations] PHerc. 19/698',  CErc.  26, 27-127
Montanari, F., ed. (1994)  La philologie grecque à l'époque hellénistique et romaine (Vandœuvres/Geneva)
Montoneri, L., ed. (1984)  I Megarici: studio storico-critico e traduzione delle testimonianze antiche (Catania)
Moraux, P. (1973)  Der Aristotelismus bei den Griechen von Andronikos von Rhodos bis Alexander von Aphrodisias  Bd. i, Die Renaissance des Aristotelismus im I. Jh. v. 
Chr., Peripatoi 5 (Berlin/New York)
Moraux, P. (1986) 'Diogène Laërce et le Peripatos', in Giannantoni (1986a) 245-94
Moretti, L. (1967)  Iscrizioni storiche ellenistiche, i: Attica, Peloponneso, Beozia (Florence)
Moretti, L. (1976) 'Epigrafica. 16. Un successore di Posidonio d' Apamea',  RFIC  104, 191-4
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
862
 Bibliography
Morrison, D. (1987) 'On Professor Vlastos' Xenophon',  AncPhil  7, 9-22
Morrow, G., ed. (1970) Proclus:  A Commentary on the First Book of Euclid's Elements (Princeton)
Most, G. W., ed. (1996)  Collecting Fragments — Fragmente Sammeln (Göttingen) Mudry, Ph. (1982)  La préface du  De Medicina  de Celse, Bibliotheca Helvetica Romana 19
(Rome)
Mudry, Ph. (1990) 'Le scepticisme des médecins empiriques dans le traité  De la médecine  de Celse: modèles et modalités', in  Le scepticisme antique: perspectives historiques et systématiques, Cahiers de la Revue de théologie et de philosophie 15, 85-96
Mueller, I. (1974) 'Greek mathematics and Greek logic', in Corcoran, J., ed.,  Ancient Logic and its Modern Interpretation (Dordrecht/Boston) 35-70
Mueller, I. (1979) 'The completeness of Stoic propositional logic',  Notre Dame Journal of Formal Logic  20, 201-15
Mueller, I. (1981)  Philosophy of Mathematics and Deductive Structure in Euclid's Elements (Cambridge, Mass.)
Mueller, I. (1982) 'Geometry and Scepticism', in Barnes  et al. (1982a) 69-95
Mühll, P. Von der, ed. (1922)  Epicuri epistulae tres et ratae sententiae a Laertio Diogene servatae (Leipzig, various repr.)
Muller, R., ed. (1985) Les Mégariques:  Fragments et témoignages (Paris) Muller, R. (1994) 'Bryson d'Héraclée', in Goulet (1989-94) ii, 142-3
Müller, H.-E. (1943)  Die Prinzipien der stoischen Grammatik, 2 vols. (Rostock) Müller, R. (1972)  Die epikureische Gesellschaftstheorie (Berlin) Müller, R. (1991)  Die Epikureische Ethik, Schriften zur Geschichte und Kultur der Antike 32 (Berlin)
Murray, O. (1965) 'Philodemus on the good king according to Homer',  JRS  55, 161-82
Murray, O. (1967) 'Aristeas and Ptolemaic kingship',  JThS  18,337-71
Murray, O. (1970) 'Hecataeus of Abdera and Pharaonic kingship',  JEA  56, 141-71
Mutschmann, H. (1911a) 'Inhaltsangabe und Kapitelüberschrift im antiken Buch', Hermes  46, 93-107
Mutschmann, H. (1911b) 'Die Stufen der Wahrscheinlichkeit bei Karneades',  RhM  66, 190-8
Nachmanson, E. (1941)  Der griechische Buchtitel. Einige Beobachtungen, Göteborgs Högskolas Årsskrift 47.19 (Gothenburg)
Nassen Poulos, P. (1981) 'Form and function of the pronouncement story in Diogenes'
 Lives', in Tannehill, R. C., ed.,  Pronouncement Studies (Missoula) 53-64
Natali, C. (1991)  Bios theoretikos.  La vita di Aristotele e l'organizzazione della sua scuola (Bologna)
Natorp, P. (1884)  Forschungen zur Geschichte des Erkenntnisproblems im Alterthum (Berlin; repr. Hildesheim 1965)
Nautin, P. (1976) 'La fin des  Stromates  et les hypotyposes de Clément d'Alexandrie', VChr  30, 268-302
Nebel, G. (1935) 'Der Begri◊ des Kathe-kon in der alten Stoa',  Hermes  70, 439-60
Nestle, W. (1932) 'Metrodoros (14)', in  Pauly Wissowa, Realencyclopädie  15, cols. 
1475-6
Neugebauer, O. (1975)  A History of Ancient Mathematical Astronomy, 3 vols. (Berlin) Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
 Bibliography
863
Niehues Pröbsting, H. (1979)  Der Kynismus des Diogenes und der Begri◊ des Zynismus, Humanistische Bibliothek, Reihe 1 Bd. 40 (Munich)
Nietzsche, F. (1870) 'Analecta Laertiana',  RhM  25, 217-31
Nuchelmans, G. (1973)  Theories of the Proposition: Ancient and Medieval Conceptions of the Bearers of Truth and Falsity (Amsterdam/London)
Nussbaum, M. C. (1986) 'Therapeutic arguments: Epicurus and Aristotle', in Schofield
& Striker (1986a) 31-74
Nussbaum, M. C. (1987) 'The Stoics on the extirpation of the passions',  Apeiron  20, 129-77
Nussbaum, M. C. (1994)  The Therapy of Desire: Theory and Practice in Hellenistic Ethics (Princeton)
O'Brien, D. (1981)  Theories of Weight in the Ancient World, vol. i: Democritus, Weight and Size, PhA 37 (Leiden/Paris)
O'Meara, D. J., ed. (1981)  Studies in Aristotle, Studies in Philosophy and the History of Philosophy 9 (Washington)
Obbink, D. (1984) 'P.Oxy. 215 and Epicurean religious θεωρι!α ', in  Atti del XVII Congresso internazionale di papirologia, vol. ii (Naples) 607-19
Obbink, D. (1988) 'Hermarchus,  Against Empedocles',  CQ  38, 428-35
Obbink, D. (1989) 'The atheism of Epicurus',  GRBS  30, 187-223
Obbink, D. (1992) 'Epicurus 11 (?): Sulla religiosità e il culto popolare', in  Corpus dei papiri filosofici greci e latini  i, 1** (Florence) 167-91
Obbink, D., ed. (1995)  Philodemus and Poetry. Poetic Theory and Practice in Lucretius, Philodemus and Horace (Oxford)
Obbink, D., ed. (1996) Philodemus  On Piety, Part 1: Critical Text with Commentary (Oxford)
Ogilvie, R. M. (1978)  The Library of Lactantius (Oxford) Opelt, I. (1962) 'Epitome', in  RAC  Bd. 5 (Stuttgart) 944-73
Ophuijsen, J. M. van (1994) 'Where have the topics gone?', in Fortenbaugh & Mirhady (1994) 131-73
Ophuijsen, J. van & Raalte, M. van, edd. (1998)  Theophrastus: Reappraising the Sources, RUSCH 8 (New Brunswick)
Pachet, P. (1978) 'L'imperatif stoïcien', in Brunschwig (1978a) 361-74
Pasquali, G. (1910) 'Doxographica aus Basiliusscholien',  NAWG, Philol.-hist. Klasse 194-228; repr. in La Penna, A.  et al., edd.,  G. Pasquali: Scritti filologici, vol. i (Florence 1986) 539-74
Pasquali, G., (1952)  Storia della tradizione e critica del testo (Florence, 2nd edn 1971) Pearson, A. C., ed. (1891)  The Fragments of Zeno and Cleanthes (Cambridge) Pembroke, S. (1971) 'Oikeio-sis', in Long (1971a) 114-49
Pépin, J. (1976)  Mythe et allégorie. Les origines grecques et les contestations judéo-chrétiennes, 2nd edn (Paris)
Pesce, D. (1980)  Introduzione a Epicuro (Rome/Bari)
Pfei◊er, R. (1968)  History of Classical Scholarship from the Beginnings to the End of the Hellenistic Age (Oxford)
Philippson, R. (1910) 'Die Rechtsphilosophie der Epikureer',  AGPh  23, 289-337, 433-46
Philippson, R. (1911) 'Zu Ciceros erstem Buch  De finibus',  RhM  66, 231-6
Philippson, R. (1932) 'Das "erste Naturgemäße"',  Philologus  87, 445-66
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
864
 Bibliography
Philippson, R. (1935) 'Neokles (4)', in  Pauly Wissowa, Realencyclopädie  16.2, cols. 2414-16
Piantelli, M. (1978) 'Possibili elementi indiani nella formazione del pensiero di Pirrone d'Elide',  Filosofia  29, 135-64
Pinborg, J. (1961) 'Interjektionen und Naturlaute. Petrus Heliae und ein Problem der antiken und mittelalterlichen Sprachphilosophie',  C&M  22, 117-38
Pinborg, J. (1975) 'Classical Antiquity: Greece', in Sebeok, T. A., ed.,  Current Trends in Linguistics  13.1: Historiography of Linguistics (Den Haag/Paris) 69-126
Places, E. des, ed. (1987) Eusèbe de Césarée:  La préparation évangélique, Livres xiv-xv, SC 338 (Paris)
Plasberg, O. (1922)  M. Tulli Ciceronis Academicorum Reliquiae cum Lucullo, Bibl. 
Teubneriana (Leipzig)
Pohlenz, M. (1934) 'Cicero de o√ciis iii',  NGG, Philos.-hist.Kl. 1, 1-40; repr. in Pohlenz (1965) i, 243-91
Pohlenz, M. (1939) 'Die Begründung der abendländischen Sprachlehre durch die Stoa', NGG, Phil.-hist. Kl. iii, 6, 151-98; repr. in Pohlenz (1965) i, 39-86
Pohlenz, M. (1940)  Grundfragen der stoischen Philosophie, Abh. der Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften zu Göttingen, Phil.-hist. Kl. 3e Folge, 26; repr. in Tarán, L., ed. 
(1987)  Greek & Roman Philosophy (New York/London) 1-122
Pohlenz, M. (1959)  Die Stoa, 2nd edn (Göttingen)
Pohlenz, M. (1965)  Kleine Schriften, 2 vols. (Hildesheim) Pohlenz, M. (1967)  La Stoa [trad. it.] (Florence)
Pope, M. (1986) 'Epicureanism and the atomic swerve',  SO  61, 77-97
Porter, J. I. (1992) 'Hermeneutic lines and circles: Aristarchus and Crates on the exegesis of Homer', in Lamberton & Keaney (1992) 67-114
Porter, J. I. (1994) 'Stoic morals and poetics in Philodemus',  CErc  24, 63-88
Porter, J. I. (1995) 'Οι/ κριτικοι!: a reassessment', in Abbenes, J. G. J., Slings, S. R. & Sluiter, I., edd. (1995)  Greek Literary Theory after Aristotle: a Collections of Papers in Honour of D. M. Schenkeveld (Amsterdam) 83-109
Powell, J. G. F., ed. (1995a)  Cicero the Philosopher, Twelve Papers (Oxford) Powell, J. G. F. (1995b) 'Introduction: Cicero's philosophical works and their background', in Powell (1995a) 1-35
Pra, M. dal (1950)  Lo Scetticismo Greco (Milano; repr. in 2 vols. Rome/Bari 19752) Prantl, C. von (1855)  Geschichte der Logik im Abendlande, Bd. 1 (Leipzig; repr. Graz 1955) Prior, A. N. (1955) 'Diodoran modalities',  PhilosQ  5, 205-13
Puglia, E. (1980) 'Nuove letture nei  PHerc. 1012 e 1786 (Demetrii Laconis opera incerta)',  CErc  10, 25-53
Puglia, E., ed. (1988) Demetrio Lacone:  Aporie testuali e esegetiche in Epicuro ( PHerc. 
1012), La Scuola di Epicuro 8 (Naples)
Puliga, D. (1983) 'ΧΡΟΝΟΣ e ΘΑΝΑΤΟΣ in Epicuro',  Elenchos  4, 235-60
Purinton, J. S. (1993) 'Epicurus on the telos',  Phronesis  38, 281-320
Purinton, J. S. (1994) 'Magnifying Epicurean minima',  AncPhil  14, 115-46
Raalte, M. van (1988) 'The idea of the cosmos as an organic whole in Theophrastus'
 Metaphysics', in Fortenbaugh & Sharples (1988) 189-215
Rabbow, P. (1954)  Seelenführung, Methodik der Exerzitien in der Antike (Munich) Rabe, H. (1931)  Prolegomenon Sylloge, Bibl. Teubneriana, Rhetores graeci, vol. xiv (Leipzig)
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
 Bibliography
865
Raphael, M. (1931) 'Die pyrrhoneische Skepsis',  Philosophische Hefte  3, 47-70
Raubitschek, A. E. (1991 (1949)) 'Phaidros and his Roman pupils', in Obbink, D. & Vander Waerdt, P. A., edd. (1991) A. E. Raubitschek:  The School of Hellas: Essays on Greek History, Archaeology and Literature (New York/Oxford) 337-44, orig. 
ed.  Hesperia  18 (1949) 96-103
Rawson, E. (1969)  The Spartan Tradition in European Thought (Oxford; repr. 1991) Rawson, E. (1975)  Cicero: A Portrait (London)
Rawson, E. (1985)  Intellectual Life in the Late Roman Republic (London) Reale, G. (1981) 'Ipotesi per una rilettura della filosofia di Pirrone di Elide', in Giannantoni (1981a) i, 243-336
Reesor, M. E. (1989)  The Nature of Man in Early Stoic Philosophy (London) Regenbogen, O. (1940) 'Theophrastos', in  Pauly Wissowa, Realencyclopädie  Suppl. 7, cols. 1354-562
Reid, J. S. (1885) M. Tulli Ciceronis  Academica (London; repr. Hildesheim 1966) Repici, L. (1977)  La Logica di Teofrasto: studio critico e raccolta dei frammenti e delle testimonianze (Bologna)
Repici, L. (1990) 'L' epiglottide nell' antichità tra medicina e filosofia',  HPLS  12, 67-104
Reynolds, L. D. & Wilson, N. G. (1978)  Scribes & Scholars: A Guide to the Transmission of Greek & Latin Literature, 2nd edn (Oxford) Richard, M. (1964) 'Florilèges grecs', in  Dictionnaire de spiritualité ascétique et mystique, doctrine et histoire  5, 475-512 (Paris)
Richardson, N. J. (1994) 'Aristotle and Hellenistic scholarship', in Montanari (1994) 7-28
Ridings, D. (1995)  The Attic Moses: The Dependency Theme in Some Early Christian Writers (Gothenburg)
Rieth, O. (1933)  Grundbegri◊e der stoischen Ethik: Eine traditionsgeschichtliche Untersuchung, Problemata 9 (Berlin)
Rieth, O. (1934) 'Über das Telos der Stoiker',  Hermes  69, 13-45
Rijk, L. M. de (1966) 'Some notes on the Medieval tract  De insolubilibus, with the edition of a tract dating from the end of the twelfth century',  Vivarium  4, 83-115
Rist, J. M. (1969a)  Stoic Philosophy (Cambridge; later repr.) Rist, J. M. (1969b) 'Categories and their uses', in Rist (1969a) 152-72; repr. in Long (1971a) 38-57
Rist, J. M. (1972)  Epicurus: An introduction (Cambridge) Rist, J. M. (1974) 'Pleasure: 360-30 0 bc',  Phoenix  28, 167-79
Rist, J. M. (1977) 'Zeno and Stoic consistency',  Phronesis  22, 161-74; repr. in Anton & Preuss (1983) 465-77
Rist, J. M. (1978a) 'Zeno and the origins of Stoic logic', in Brunschwig (1978a) 387-40 0
Rist, J. M., ed. (1978b)  The Stoics (Berkeley/Los Angeles/London) Rist, J. M. (1978c) ' The Stoic concept of detachment' in Rist (1978b) 259-73
Rist, J. M. (1980) 'Epicurus on friendship',  CPh  75, 121-9
Riverso, E. (1960) 'Il paradosso del mentitore',  RScF  12, 296-325
Robin, L. (1944)  Pyrrhon et le Scepticisme Grec (Paris) Robins, R. H. (1979)  A Short History of Linguistics, 2nd edn (London) Robinson, R. (1969)  Essays in Greek Philosophy (Oxford) Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
866
 Bibliography
Rohde, E. (1881) 'Ueber Leukipp und Demokrit',  Verhandlungen der 34. Philologenvers. 
 zu Trier 1880 (Leipzig) 64-90; repr. in  Kleine Schriften (Tübingen/Leipzig 1901) vol. i, 205-45
Romano, F., ed. (1980)  Democrito e l'atomismo antico (Catania) Romeo, C. (1979) 'Demetrio Lacone sulla grandezza del sole ( PHerc. 1013)',  CErc  9, 11-35
Romeo, C., ed. (1988) Demetrio Lacone:  La poesia (PHerc. 188 e 1014), La scuola di Epicuro 9 (Naples)
Rorty, R., Schneewind, J. B. & Skinner, Q., edd. (1984)  Philosophy in History, Essays on the Historiography of Philosophy (Cambridge)
Roselli, A. (1990) 'Appunti per una storia dell'uso apologetico della filologia: la nuova edizione di Demetrio Lacone ( PHerc. 1012)',  SCO  40, 117-38
Rosenbaum, S. E. (1986) 'How to be dead and not care: a defense of Epicurus',  APhQ
23, 217-25
Rosenbaum, S. E. (1990) 'Epicurus on pleasure and the complete life', in Cooper, J., ed. 
 The Monist  73, 21-41
Rubin Pinault, J. (1992)  Hippocratic Lives and Legends, Studies in Ancient Medicine 4
(Leiden)
Ruland, H.-J. (1976)  Die arabische Fassung zweier Schriften des Alexander von Aphrodisias: Über die Vorsehung  und  Über das liberum arbitrium (Saarbrücken) Runia, D. T. (1981) 'Philo's  De aeternitate mundi: the problem of its interpretation', VChr  35, 105-51
Runia, D. T. (1989) 'Xenophanes on the moon: a  doxographicum  in Aëtius',  Phronesis  34, 245-69
Runia, D. T. (1990)  Exegesis and Philosophy: Studies in Philo of Alexandria, Variorum CSS 332 (Aldershot)
Runia, D. T. (1992) 'The language of excellence in Plato's  Timaeus  and later Platonism', in Gersh, S. & Kannengiesser, C., edd.,  Platonism in Late Antiquity (Notre Dame) 11-37
Runia, D. T. (1993)  Philo in Early Christian Literature: A Survey, Compendia Rerum Iudaicarum ad Novum Testamentum iii.3 (Assen/Minneapolis)
Runia, D. T. (1996a) 'Additional fragments of Arius Didymus on physics', in Algra  et al. 
(1996) 363-81
Runia, D. T. (1996b) 'Atheists in Aëtius. Text, translation and comments on  De placitis 1.7.1-10',  Mnemosyne  iv.59, 542-76
Russo, A. (1978)  Scettici antichi, Classici della filosofia 22 (Turin) Rüstow, A. (1910)  Der Lügner: Theorie/Geschichte und Auflösung (Leipzig) Ry◊el, H. (1949)  Der Wandel der Staatsverfassungen (Bern) Sa◊rey, H. D. & Westerink, L. G., edd. (1968) Proclus:  Théologie Platonicienne, t. i, Coll. 
Budé (Paris)
Salvadori Baldascino, L. (1990) 'Masilaos oppure Mnasilas?',  CErc  20, 65-6
Sambursky, S. (1959)  Physics of the Stoics (London)
Sandbach, F. H. (1930) ' Ennoia  and  prolepsis',  CQ  24, 45-51
Sandbach, F. H., ed. (1969) Plutarch's  Moralia,  vol. 15: Fragments, LCL (Cambridge, Mass./London)
Sandbach, F. H. (1971) ' Phantasia kataleptike', in Long (1971a) 9-21
Sandbach, F. H. (1985)  Aristotle and the Stoics, PCPhS suppl. vol. 10 (Cambridge) Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
 Bibliography
867
Sandbach, F. H. (1989 (1975))  The Stoics, 2nd edn (Bristol (London)) Saunders, T. J. (1984) 'Free will and atomic swerve in Lucretius',  SO  59, 37-59
Sbordone, F. (1968) 'Primi lineamenti d'un ritratto di Fedro epicureo',  P & I  10, 21-30
Scarborough, J. (1985) 'Erasistratus, student of Theophrastus?',  BHM  59, 515-17
Schäfer, K. Th. (1959) 'Eisagoge',  RAC  Bd. 4 (Stuttgart) 862-904
Schäublin, C. (1977) 'Homerum ex Homero',  MH  34, 221-7
Schäublin, C. (1990) 'Philosophie und Rhetorik in der Auseinandersetzung um die Religion. Zu Cicero, De natura deorum I',  MH  47, 87-101
Schäublin, C. (1993) 'Kritisches und Exegetisches zu Ciceros "Lucullus" ii',  MH  50, 158-69
Schenkeveld, D. M. (1964) 'Studies in Demetrius "On Style"' (dissertation Amsterdam)
Schenkeveld, D. M. (1968) 'Οι/ κριτικοι! in Philodemus',  Mnemosyne  21, 176-214
Schenkeveld, D. M. (1970) 'Aristarchus and ΟΜΗΡΟΣ ΦΙΛΟΤΕΧΝΟΣ. Some fundamental ideas of Aristarchus on Homer as a poet',  Mnemosyne  23, 162-78
Schenkeveld, D. M. (1983) 'Linguistic theories in the rhetorical works of Dionysius of Halicarnassus',  Glotta  61, 67-94
Schenkeveld, D. M. (1984) 'Studies in the history of ancient linguistics ii: Stoic and Peripatetic kinds of speech act and the distinction of grammatical moods', Mnemosyne  37, 291-353
Schenkeveld, D. M. (1990a) 'Studies in the history of ancient linguistics iii: The Stoic ΤΕΧΝΗ ΠΕΡΙ ΦΩΝΗΣ',  Mnemosyne  43, 86-108
Schenkeveld, D. M. (1990b) 'Studies in the history of ancient linguistics iv: Developments in the study of ancient linguistics',  Mnemosyne  43, 289-306
Schenkeveld, D. M. (1991) 'Figures and tropes. A border-case between grammar and rhetoric', in Ueding (1991) 149-60
Schenkeveld, D. M. (1993) 'Pap. Hamb. 128. A Hellenistic ars poetica',  ZPE  97, 67-80
Schenkeveld, D. M. (1994) 'Scholarship and grammar', in Montanari (1994) 263-301
Schenkeveld, D. M. (1995) 'The linguistic contents of Dionysius' Παραγγε!λµατα ', in Law, V. & Sluiter, I., edd.,  Dionysius Thrax and the Techne- Grammatike- (Müster) 41-52
Schian, R. (1973)  Untersuchungen über das 'argumentum e consensu omnium', Spudasmata 28 (Hildesheim)
Schiesaro, A. (1990)  Simulacrum et Imago: gli argomenti analogici nel  De rerum natura (Pisa)
Schmid, W. (1936)  Epikurs Kritik der platonischen Elementenlehre, Klassisch-philologische Studien 9 (Leipzig)
Schmid, W. (1939)  Ethica Epicurea, Pap. Herc. 1251, Studia Herculanensia 1 (Leipzig) Schmid, W. (1951) 'Götter und Menschen in der Theologie Epikurs',  RhM  94, 97-156
Schmid, W. (1957) ' Contritio  und  ultima linea rerum  in neuen epikureischen Texten', RhM  100, 301-27
Schmid, W. (1962) 'Epikur', in  RAC  Bd. 5 (Stuttgart) 681-819; repr. in Erbse, H. & Küppers, J., edd. (1984) W. Schmid:  Ausgewählte philologische Schriften (Berlin/New York) 151-266
Schmid, W. (1978) 'Lucretius ethicus', in Gigon, O., ed.  Lucrèce, Fondation Hardt 24
(Vandœuvres/Geneva) 123-57
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
868
 Bibliography
Schmidt, J. (1975) 'Lukrez und die Stoiker, Quellenuntersuchungen zu  De rerum natura' (dissertation Marburg)
Schmidt, J. (1990)  Lukrez, der Kepos und die Stoiker,  Untersuchungen zur Schule Epikurs und zu den Quellen von  De rerum natura (Frankfurt am Main) Schmidt, P. L. (1978) 'Cicero's place in Roman philosophy: a study of his prefaces',  CJ
74, 115-27
Schmidt, R. T. (1967 (1839))  Stoicorum Grammatica (Halle, repr. Amsterdam 1967), transl. by Hülser, K. (1979) 'Die Grammatik der Stoiker', with an introduction by U. Egli, Schriften zur Linguistik 12 (Braunschweig/Wiesbaden) Schmitter, P., ed. (1991)  Sprachtheorien der Abendländischen Antike, Geschichte der Sprachtheorie 2 (Tübingen)
Schober, A., ed. (1988) 'Philodemi  De pietate  pars prior',  CErc  18, 67-125
Schofield, M. (1980b) 'Preconception, argument and god', in Schofield  et al. (1980a) 283-308
Schofield, M. (1983) 'The syllogisms of Zeno of Citium',  Phronesis  28, 31-58
Schofield, M. (1984) 'Ariston of Chios and the unity of virtue',  AncPhil  4, 83-96
Schofield, M. (1986b) 'Cicero for and against divination',  JRS  76, 47-65
Schofield, M. (1988) 'The retrenchable present', in Barnes & Mignucci (1988a) 329-74
Schofield, M. (1991)  The Stoic Idea of the City (Cambridge) Schofield, M. (1995) 'Two Stoic approaches to justice', in Laks & Schofield (1995) 191-212
Schofield, M., Burnyeat, M. F. & Barnes, J., edd. (1980a)  Doubt and Dogmatism. Studies in Hellenistic Epistemology (Oxford)
Schofield, M. & Nussbaum, M. C., edd. (1982)  Language and Logos: Studies in Ancient Greek Philosophy Presented to G. E. L. Owen (Cambridge)
Schofield, M. & Striker, G., edd. (1986a)  The Norms of Nature, Studies in Hellenistic Ethics (Cambridge/Paris)
Schubert, A. (1994)  Untersuchungen zur stoischen Bedeutungslehre (Göttingen) Schwartz, E. (1905) 'Diogenes (40) Laertios', in  Pauly Wissowa, Realencyclopädie  5, cols. 
738-63
Searle, J. R. (1992)  The Rediscovery of the Mind (Boston) Sedley, D. N. (1973) 'Epicurus,  On Nature  book xxviii',  CErc  3, 5-83
Sedley, D. N. (1974) 'The structure of Epicurus'  On Nature',  CErc  4, 89-92
Sedley, D. N. (1976a) 'Epicurus and his professional rivals', in Bollack & Laks (1976) 119-59
Sedley, D. N. (1976b) 'Epicurus and the mathematicians of Cyzicus',  CErc  6, 23-54
Sedley, D. N. (1977) 'Diodorus Cronus and Hellenistic philosophy',  PCPhS  23, 74-120
Sedley, D. N. (1981) 'The end of the Academy',  Phronesis  26, 67-75
Sedley, D. N. (1982a) 'Two conceptions of vacuum',  Phronesis  27, 175-93
Sedley, D. N. (1982b) 'The Stoic criterion of identity',  Phronesis  27, 255-75
Sedley, D. N. (1982c) 'On Signs', in Barnes  et al. (1982a) 239-72
Sedley, D. N. (1983a) 'The motivation of Greek skepticism', in Burnyeat (1983) 9-29
Sedley, D. N. (1983b) 'Epicurus' refutation of determinism', in AA. VV. (1983) 11-51
Sedley, D. N. (1984) 'The negated conjunction in Stoicism',  Elenchos  5, 311-16
Sedley, D. N. (1985) 'The Stoic theory of universals', in Epp (1985) 87-92
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
 Bibliography
869
Sedley, D. N. (1988) 'Epicurean anti-reductionism', in Barnes & Mignucci (1988a) 295-327
Sedley, D. N. (1989a) 'Philosophical allegiance in the Greco-Roman World', in Gri√n
& Barnes (1989) 97-119
Sedley, D. N. (1989b) 'Epicurus on the common sensibles', in Huby & Neal (1989) 123-36
Sedley, D. N. (1992a) 'Sextus Empiricus and the atomist criteria of truth',  Elenchos  13, 19-56
Sedley, D. N. (1992b) 'Commentary on Mansfeld', in Cleary & Wians (1992) 146-52
Sedley, D. N. (1996) 'The inferential foundations of Epicurean ethics', in Giannantoni
& Gigante (1996) 313-39
Sedley, D. N. (1997) 'Theophrastus and Epicurean physics', in van Ophuijsen & van Raalte (1998) 331-54
Sedley, D. N. (1998)  Lucretius and the Transmission of Greek Wisdom (Cambridge) Seel, G. (1993) 'Zur Geschichte und Logik des θερι!ζων λο!γο ', in Döring & Ebert (1993) 291-318
Sharples, R. W. (1983) Alexander of Aphrodisias:  On Fate, Text, Translation, Commentary (London; repr. 1987)
Sharples, R. W. (1984) 'On fire in Heraclitus and in Zeno of Citium',  CQ  34, 231-3
Sharples, R. W. (1987) 'Alexander of Aphrodisias: scholasticism and innovation', in Haase, W., ed.,  ANRW  ii 36.2 (Berlin/New York) 1176-243
Sharples, R. W., ed. (1993)  Modern Thinkers and Ancient Thinkers (London) Shields, C. J. (1994) 'Socrates among the Skeptics', in Vander Waerdt, P. A., ed.,  The Socratic Movement (Ithaca, NY) 341-66
Siebenborn, E. (1976)  Die Lehre von der Sprachrichtigkeit und ihren Kriterien: Studien zur antiken normativen Grammatik, Studien zur antiken Philosophie 5
(Amsterdam)
Sinclair, T. A. (1951)  A History of Greek Political Thought, 2nd edn 1968 (London) Sluiter, I. (1988) 'On η3 διασαφητικο! and propositions containing µα4λλον/η9ττον', Mnemosyne  41, 46-66
Sluiter, I. (1990)  Ancient Grammar in Context: contributions to the study of ancient linguistic thought (Amsterdam)
Smend, R. (1984)  Die Entstehung des Alten Testaments  3rd edn (Stuttgart) Smith, M. F., ed. (1993) Diogenes of Oinoanda:  The Epicurean Inscription, La scuola di Epicuro, suppl. 1 (Naples)
Smith, W. D. (1979)  The Hippocratic Tradition,  Cornell Publications in the History of Science (Ithaca, N.Y./London)
Smith, W. D. (1989) 'Notes on ancient medical historiography',  BHM  63, 73-109
Sollenberger, M. G. (1992) 'The lives of the Peripatetics: an analysis of the contents and structure of Diogenes Laertius' "Vitae philosophorum" book 5', in Haase, W., ed.,  ANRW  ii 36.6 (Berlin/New York) 3793-879
Solmsen, F. (1929) 'Ancora il frammento logico fiorentino',  RFIC  7, 507-10; repr. in Solmsen (1968-82) ii, 44-7
Solmsen, F. (1941) 'The Aristotelian tradition in ancient rhetoric',  AJPh  62, 35-50, 169-90
Solmsen, F. (1942) 'Eratosthenes as Platonist and poet',  TAPhA  73, 192-213
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
870
 Bibliography
Solmsen, F. (1951) 'Epicurus and cosmological heresies',  AJPh  72, 1-23; repr. in Solmsen (1968-82) i, 461-83
Solmsen, F. (1953) 'Epicurus on the growth and decline of the cosmos',  AJPh  74, 34-51; repr. in Solmsen (1968-82) i, 484-501
Solmsen, F. (1961) 'Greek philosophy and the discovery of the nerves',  MH  18, 150-97; repr. in Solmsen (1968-82) i, 536-82
Solmsen, F. (1968-82)  Kleine Schriften, 3 vols. (Hildesheim) Solmsen, F. (1977) 'Epicurus on void, matter and genesis',  Phronesis  22, 263-81; repr. in Solmsen (1968-82) iii, 333-51
Sorabji, R. (1980a)  Necessity, Cause, and Blame: Perspectives on Aristotle's Theory (Ithaca, N.Y. and London)
Sorabji, R. (1980b) 'Causation, laws, and necessity', in Schofield  et al. (1980a) 250-82
Sorabji, R. (1983)  Time, Creation and the Continuum (London) Sorabji, R. (1988)  Matter, Space and Motion: Theories in Antiquity and Their Sequel (London)
Sorabji, R., ed. (1990)  Aristotle Transformed: The Ancient Commentators and Their Influence (London)
Soreth, M. (1968) 'Die zweite Telosformel des Antipater von Tarsos',  AGPh  50, 48-72
Sosa, E., ed. (1975)  Causation and Conditionals (Oxford) Spanneut, M. (1957)  Le Stoïcisme des Pères de l'Eglise de Clément de Rome à Clément d'Alexandrie (Paris)
Spinelli, E. (1986) 'Metrodoro contro i dialettici?',  CErc  16, 29-43
Squilloni, A. (1991)  Il concetto di 'regno' nel pensiero dello ps.Ecfanto: le fonti e i trattati Περι' βασιλει!α (Florence)
Staden, H. von (1975) 'Experiment and experience in Hellenistic medicine',  BICS  22, 178-99
Staden, H. von (1978) 'The Stoic theory of perception and its "Platonic" critics', in Machamer, P. K. & Turnbull, R. G., edd.,  Studies in Perception (Columbus) 96-136
Staden, H. von (1982) 'Hairesis and heresy: the case of the  haireseis iatrikai', in Meyer, B. F. & Sanders, E. P., edd.,  Jewish and Christian Self-Definition, 3: Self-Definition in the Graeco-Roman World (London) 76-10 0, 199-206
Staden, H. von, ed. (1989)  Herophilus, The Art of Medicine in Early Alexandria (Cambridge)
Staden, H. von (1991) 'Galen as historian: his use of sources on the Herophileans', in López Férez, J. A., ed.,  Galeno: Obra, pensamiento e influencia (Madrid) 205-22
Staden, H. von (1997) 'Teleology and mechanism: Aristotelian biology and early hellenistic medicine', in Kullman, W., & Föllinger, S., edd.,  Aristotelische Biologie (Stuttgart) 183-208
Steckel, H. (1960) 'Epikurs Prinzip der Einheit von Schmerzlosigkeit und Lust'
(dissertation Göttingen)
Steckel, H. (1968) 'Epikuros', in  Pauly Wissowa, Realencyclopädie  Suppl. 11, cols. 
579-652
Steckerl, F. (1958)  The Fragments of Praxagoras of Cos and His School, PhA 8 (Leiden) Steinmetz, P. (1964)  Die Physik des Theophrastos von Eresos, Palingenesia 1 
(Bad Homburg)
Steinmetz, P. (1990) 'Planung und Planänderung der philosophischen Schriften Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
 Bibliography
871
Ciceros', in Steinmetz, P., ed.,  Beiträge zur hellenistischen Literatur und ihrer Rezeption in Rom (Stuttgart) 141-53
Steinmetz, P. (1994) 'Die Stoa', in Flashar (1994) 491-716
Steinthal, H. (1890-91)  Geschichte der Sprachwissenschaft bei den Griechen und Römern mit besonderer Rücksicht der Logik, 2nd edn, 2 vols. (Berlin) Sternbach, L., ed. (1963)  Gnomologium Vaticanum e codice vaticano graeco 743; repr. from WS  9-11 (1887-9) (Berlin)
Stopper, M. R. (1983) 'Schizzi Pirroniani',  Phronesis  28, 265-97
Stough, Ch.L. (1969)  Greek Scepticism (Berkeley/Los Angeles) Strasburger, H. (1965) 'Posidonius on problems of the Roman empire',  JRS  55, 40-53
Strasburger, H. (1966) 'Der "Scipionenkreis'' ',  Hermes  94, 60-72
Striker, G. (1974) Κριτη!ριον τη4 α0ληθει!α,  NGG, Philol.-hist. Klasse 2, 47-110; repr. 
in Striker (1996) 22-77
Striker, G. (1977) 'Epicurus on the truth of sense impressions',  AGPh  59, 125-42; repr. 
in Striker (1996) 77-92
Striker, G. (1980) 'Sceptical strategies', in Schofield  et al. (1980a) 54-83; repr. in Striker (1996) 92-116
Striker, G. (1981) 'Über den Unterschied zwischen den Pyrrhoneern und den Akademikern',  Phronesis  26, 153-71; English version in Striker (1996) 135-50
Striker, G. (1983) 'The role of oikeio-sis in Stoic ethics',  OSAP  1, 145-67; repr. in Striker (1996) 281-98
Striker, G. (1986) 'Antipater, or the art of living', in Schofield & Striker (1986a) 185-204; repr. in Striker (1996) 298-316
Striker, G. (1987) 'Origins of the concept of natural law', in Cleary, J. J., ed.,  Proceedings of the Boston Area Colloquium in Ancient Philosophy  2 (Lanham, MD) 79-101; repr. in Striker (1996) 209-21
Striker, G. (1988) 'Commentary on Mitsis (1988b)', in Cleary & Shartin (1988) 323-8
Striker, G. (1990) 'The problem of the criterion', in Everson (1990a) 143-60; repr. in Striker (1996) 150-69
Striker, G. (1991) 'Following nature. A study in Stoic ethics',  OSAP  10, 1-73; repr. in Striker (1996) 221-81
Striker, G. (1993) 'Epicurean hedonism', in Brunschwig & Nussbaum (1993) 3-17; repr. in Striker (1996) 196-209
Striker, G. (1996)  Essays on Hellenistic Epistemology and Ethics (Cambridge) Stroux, J. (1912)  De Theophrasti Virtutibus Dicendi (Leipzig) Sudhaus, E. S. (1911) 'Epikur als Beichtvater',  Archiv für Religionswissenschaft  14, 647-8
Sullivan, M. W. (1967)  Apuleian logic: The Nature, Sources, and Influence of Apuleius's Peri Hermeneias (Amsterdam)
Szabó, A. (1960) 'Anfänge des euklidischen Axiomensystems',  Archive for History of Exact Sciences  1, 38-106
Szabó, A. (1969)  Anfänge der griechischen Mathematik (Munich) Tardieu, M., ed. (1987)  Les Règles de l'Interprétation (Paris) Tarn, W. W. (1933) 'Alexander and the unity of mankind',  PBA  19, 123-66
Tarrant, H. (1984) 'Zeno on knowledge or on geometry? The evidence of Anon.  In Theaetetum',  Phronesis  29, 96-9
Tarrant, H. (1985)  Scepticism or Platonism?  The Philosophy of the Fourth Academy (Cambridge)
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
872
 Bibliography
Taylor, C. C. W. (1980) 'All perceptions are true', in Schofield  et al. (1980a) 105-24
Taylor, C. C. W. (1990) 'Aristotle's epistemology', in Everson (1990a) 116-42
Taylor, D. J., ed. (1987a)  The History of Linguistics in the Classical Period (Amsterdam) Taylor, D. J. (1987b) 'Rethinking the history of language science in classical antiquity', in Taylor (1987a) 1-16
Taylor, R. (1975) 'The metaphysics of causation', in Sosa (1975) 39-43
Temkin, O. & Temkin, C. L., edd. (1967)  Ancient Medicine, Selected Papers of L. 
Edelstein (Baltimore; repr. Baltimore/London 1987)
Tepedino Guerra, A. (1978) 'Il primo libro "Sulla ricchezza" di Filodemo',  CErc  8, 52-95
Tepedino Guerra, A. (1987) 'Una testimonianza del libro "Sul fine" di Epicuro?',  CErc 17, 85-8
Tepedino Guerra, A. (1990) 'Il contributo di Metrodoro di Lampsaco alla formazione della teoria Epicurea del linguaggio',  CErc  20, 17-25
Tepedino Guerra, A., ed. (1991) Polieno:  Frammenti, La scuola di Epicuro 11 (Naples) Tepedino Guerra, A. (1992) 'Metrodoro "Contro i dialettici"?',  CErc  22, 119-22
Tepedino Guerra, A. (1994) 'L'opera filodemea  Su Epicuro ( PHerc. 1232, 1289b)',  CErc 24, 5-53
Thesle◊, H. (1961)  An Introduction to the Pythagorean Writings of the Hellenistic Period (Åbo) Thesle◊, H. (1965)  The Pythagorean Texts of the Hellenistic Period (Åbo) Thesle◊, H. (1972) 'The problem of the Doric pseudo-Pythagorica', in  Pseudepigrapha I, Fondation Hardt 18 (Vandœuvres/Geneva) 59-87
Throm, H. (1932)  Die Thesis (Paderborn)
Tieleman, T. L. (1991) 'Diogenes of Babylon and Stoic embryology. Ps.Plutarch,  Plac. V
15.4 reconsidered',  Mnemosyne  44, 106-25
Tieleman, T. L. (1996)  Galen and Chrysippus on the Soul, Argument and Refutation in the De Placitis  Books ii-iii, PhA 68 (Leiden)
Tigerstedt, E. N. (1974)  The Legend of Sparta in Classical Antiquity, vol. ii (Stockholm) Timpanaro, S. (1972) 'Friedrich Schlegel e gli inizi della linguistica indoeuropea in Germania',  Critica Storica  N.S. 10, 72-105, rev. transl. in Amsterdam Studies in the Theory and History of Linguistic Science Ser. 1, Amsterdam Classics in Linguistics, vol. i (Amsterdam) xi-lvii
Timpanaro, S. (1981 (1963))  La genesi del metodo del Lachmann, Saggi 5 (Padua (Florence 1963))
Todd, R. B. (1973) 'The Stoic common notions',  SO  48, 47-73
Todd, R. B. (1976)  Alexander of Aphrodisias on Stoic Physics. A Study of the  De mixtione with Preliminary Essays, Text, Translation and Commentary (Leiden) Todd, R. B. (1978) 'Monism and immanence: foundations of Stoic physics', in Rist (1978b) 137-60
Todd, R. B. (1985) 'The title of Cleomedes' treatise',  Philologus  129, 250-61
Todd, R. B. (1989) 'The Stoics and their cosmology in the first and second centuries ad', in Haase, W., ed.,  ANRW  ii 36.3 (Berlin/New York) 1365-78
Todd, R. B., ed. (1990) Cleomedis  Caelestia (ΜΕΤΕΩΡΑ) (Leipzig) Tracy, S. (1994)  Boeotia Antiqua (Amsterdam)
Trillitzsch, W. (1971)  Seneca im literarischen Urteil der Antike. Darstellung und Sammlung der Zeugnisse, 2 vols. (Amsterdam)
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
 Bibliography
873
Trompf, G. W. (1979)  The Idea of Historical Recurrence in Western Thought: From Antiquity to the Reformation (Berkeley)
Tsekourakis, D. (1974)  Studies in the Terminology of Early Stoic Ethics, Hermes Einzelschr. 
32 (Wiesbaden)
Tsouna McKirahan, V. (1992) 'The Cyrenaic theory of knowledge',  OSAP  10, 161-92
Tsouna McKirahan, V. (1998)  The Epistemology of the Cyrenaic School (Cambridge) Ueding, G., ed. (1991)  Rhetorik zwischen den Wissenschaften: Geschichte, System, Praxis als Probleme des 'Historischen Wörterbuchs der Rhetorik' (Tübingen) Usener, H., ed. (1887)  Epicurea (Leipzig; repr. Stuttgart 1966) van Ophuijsen; van Raalte,  see: Ophuijsen, van; Raalte, van Vallance, J. T. (1990)  The Lost Theory of Asclepiades of Bithynia (Oxford) Vander Waerdt, P. A. (1987) 'The justice of the Epicurean wise man',  CQ  37, 402-22
Vander Waerdt, P. A. (1988) 'Hermarchus and the Epicurean genealogy of morals', TAPA  118, 87-106
Vander Waerdt, P. A. (1989) 'Colotes and the Epicurean refutation of Skepticism', GRBS  30, 225-67
Vegetti, M. (1986) 'Tradizione e verità. Forme della storiografia filosofico-scientifica nel  De placitis  di Galeno', in G. Cambiano, ed.,  Storiografia e dossografia nella filosofia antica (Turin) 227-44
Vegetti, M. (1989)  L'etica degli antichi, Manuali Laterza 4 (Rome/Bari) Vegetti, M. (1993) 'I nervi dell' anima', in Kollesch & Nickel (1993) 63-77
Verbeke, G. (1945)  L'évolution de la doctrine du  pneuma  du Stoicisme à S. Augustin (Paris/Louvain)
Verbeke, G. (1949)  Kleanthes van Assos (Brussels)
Versteegh, C. H. M. (1980) 'The Stoic verbal system',  Hermes  108, 338-57
Veyne, P. (1976)  Le pain et le cirque: sociologie historique d'un pluralisme politique (Paris) Viano, C. A. (1981) 'Lo scetticismo antico e la medicina', in Giannantoni (1981a) ii, 563-656
Vitelli, G. (1902) 'Due frammenti di Alessandro di Afrodisia', in  Festschrift Theodor Gomperz (Wien) 90-3, Engl. transl. in Sharples, R. W., ed. (1994) Alexander of Aphrodisias:  Quaestiones 2.16-3.15 (London) 90-4
Vlastos, G. (1965) 'Minimal parts in Epicurean atomism',  Isis  56, 121-47; repr. in Graham (1995) 285-314
Vlastos, G. (1966) 'Zeno of Sidon as a critic of Euclid', in Wallach, L., ed.,  The Classical Tradition, Literary and Historical Studies in Honor of Harry Caplan (Ithaca) 148-59; repr. in Graham (1995) 315-24
Vlastos, G. (1991)  Socrates: Ironist and Moral Philosopher (Cambridge) Voelke, A.-J. (1973)  L'idée de volonté dans le Stoïcisme (Paris) von Arnim; von Fritz; von Kienle; von der Mühll; von Prantl; von Staden; von Wilamowitz-Moellendor◊,  see: Arnim, von etc. 
Wachsmuth, C., ed. (1885)  Corpusculum poesis epicae ludibundae, vol. ii: De Timone Phliasio ceterisque sillographis commentatio (Leipzig)
Walbank, F. W. (1957)  A Historical Commentary on Polybius, vol. i (Oxford) Walbank, F. W. (1972)  Polybius (Berkeley)
Walbank, F. W. (1984) 'Monarchies and monarchical ideas', in  The Cambridge Ancient History, 2nd edn, vol. vii.1 (Cambridge)
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
874
 Bibliography
Walzer, R. & Frede, M., edd. (1985)  Galen. Three Treatises On the Nature of Science, 3
vols. (Indianapolis)
Wardy, R. (1988) 'Lucretius on what atoms are not',  CPh  83, 112-28
Wasserstein, A. (1978) 'Epicurean science',  Hermes, 106, 484-94
Watson, G. (1966)  The Stoic Theory of Knowledge (Belfast) Watson, G. (1971) 'The natural law and Stoicism', in Long (1971a) 216-38
Wehrli, F., ed. (1969a)  Straton von Lampsakos, Die Schule des Aristoteles: H. 5, Zweite Auflage (Basle/Stuttgart)
Wehrli, F., ed. (1969b)  Eudemos von Rhodos, Die Schule des Aristoteles, H. 8, Zweite Auflage (Basle/Stuttgart)
Wehrli, F., ed. (1969c)  Phainias von Eresos, Chamaileon, Praxiphanes, Die Schule des Aristoteles, H. 9, Zweite Auflage (Basle/Stuttgart)
Wehrli, F., ed. (1969d)  Hieronymos von Rhodos, Kritolaos und seine Schüler, Die Schule des Aristoteles, H. 10, Zweite Auflage (Basle/Stuttgart)
Wehrli, F. (1976) (rev. Lynch 1972)  Gnomon  48, 128-34
Wehrli, F., ed. (1978)  Sotion, Die Schule des Aristoteles, Suppl. Bd. 2 (Basle/Stuttgart) Wehrli, F. (1983) 'Der Peripatos bis zum Beginn der römischen Kaiserzeit', in Flashar (1983) 459-599
Weische, A. (1961)  Cicero und die Neue Akademie: Untersuchungen zur Entstehung und Geschichte der antiken Skeptizismus, Orbis antiquus 18 (Münster i. Westf., 2nd edn 1975)
Wellmann, M. (1895) 'Die pneumatische Schule bis auf Archigenes in ihrer Entwicklung dargestellt',  Philosophische Untersuchungen  14 (1895) Wellmann, M. (1901)  Fragmentensammlung der griechischen Ärzte, vol. i: Die Fragmente der sikelischen Ärzte Akron, Philistion und des Diokles von Karystos (Berlin)
Wendland, P. (1897) 'Eine doxographische Quelle Philos',  Sitzungsberichte der Deutschen Akademie der Wissenschaften zu Berlin, 1074-9
Westerink, L. G., ed. (1990)  Prolégomènes à la philosophie de Platon, Coll. Budé (Paris) White, M. J. (1992)  The Continuous and the Discrete, Ancient Physical Theories from a Contemporary Perspective (Oxford)
White, N. P. (1978) 'Two notes on Stoic terminology',  AJPh  99, 111-19
White, N. P. (1979) 'The basis of Stoic ethics',  HSPh  83, 143-78
White, N. P. (1985) 'The role of physics in Stoic ethics', in Epp (1985) 57-74
White, N. P. (1990) 'Stoic values',  The Monist  73, 42-58
White, S. (1991) (rev. Englert 1987)  AncPhil  11, 455-9
Wiesner, J., ed. (1985-87)  Aristoteles, Werk und Wirkung, Paul Moraux gewidmet, 2 vols. 
(Berlin)
Wilamowitz-Moellendor◊, U., von (1881)  Antigonos von Karystos (Berlin; repr. 1965) Williamson, T. (1994)  Vagueness (London)
Wilson, N. G. (1983)  Scholars of Byzantium (London)
Winiarczyk, M., ed. (1981) Diagorae Melii et Theodori Cyrenaei  reliquiae, Bibl. 
Teubneriana (Leipzig)
Winiarczyk, M. (1984) 'Wer galt im Altertum als Atheist?',  Philologus  128, 157-83
Winiarczyk, M. (1989) 'Bibliographie zum antiken Atheismus',  Elenchos  10, 103-92
Winiarczyk, M. (1990) 'Methodisches zum antiken Atheismus',  RhM  133, 1-15
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
 Bibliography
875
Winiarczyk, M. (1992) 'Wer galt im Altertum als Atheist? 2. Teil',  Philologus  136, 306-10
Wol◊, M. (1988) 'Hipparchus and the Stoic theory of motion', in Barnes & Mignucci (1988a) 471-545
Woltjer, J. (1877) 'Lucretii philosophia cum fontibus comparata' (dissertation Groningen; repr. in Greek and Roman Philosophy 45, New York/London 1987) Woodru◊, P. (1986) 'The skeptical side of Plato's method',  RIPh  90, 22-37
Woodward, P. G. (1989) 'Star gods in Philodemus,  PHerc. 152/157',  CErc  19, 29-47
Wotke, K., ed. (1888) 'Epikurische Spruchsammlung',  WS  10 (1888) 175-201
Wright, M. R. (1991) Cicero:  On Stoic Good and Evil. De Finibus bonorum et malorum 3 and Paradoxa Stoicorum (Warminster)
Zacher, K. D. (1982)  Plutarchs Kritik an der Lustlehre Epikurs.  Ein Kommentar zu 'Non posse suaviter vivi secundum Epicurum, Kap. 1-8', Beiträge zur klassischen Philologie 124 (Königstein)
Zacher, K. D. (1985) 'Zur Lustlehre Epikurs',  WJA  N.F. 11, 63-72
Zanker, G. (1981) 'Enargeia in the ancient criticism of poetry',  RhM  124, 297-311
Zanker, P. (1995)  Die Maske des Sokrates. Das Bild des Intellektuellen in der antiken Kunst (Munich)
Zeller, E. (& Wellmann, E., ed.) (1909)  Die Philosophie der Griechen in ihrer geschichtlichen Entwicklung, iii.1: Die nacharistotelische Philosophie, erste Hälfte (Leipzig; 51923 ⫽Darmstadt 61963)
Zeller, E. & Mondolfo, R. (1969)  La Filosofia dei Greci nel suo sviluppo storico, parte i: I Presocratici, vol. v: Empedocle, Atomisti, Anassagora, a cura di Capizzi, A. 
(Florence)
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
 Index Locorum
A c h i l l e s
A l c i n o u s
 Isag. 
 Didasc. 
i v
445
158
79n12
i x
445
159
79n15
A l e x a n d e r  o f  a p h r o d i s i a s
[A c r o ]
 APr
 Scholia vet. in Horatii Epist. 
11.20
79n12
i i 1.45
153n163, 166n198
18.2-7
150n156
18.12-18
136, 136n141
A ë t i u s
19.3-10
136
i .3.1-9
25
22.17-19
153n161
i .5.6
427n35
69.26-70.21
78n6
i .6
453
84.12-14
152
i .6.10
471n102
124.8-13
78
i .7
18n66, 453
137
143n147
i .7.23
450
164.27-31
143n147
i .7.33
388, 561n3
177-8
117, 119
i .7.34
456n21, 472
177.25-178.4
116
i .12.4
448n73
177.28-9
99n60
i .13.3
356n2
177.29-30
119
i .17.3
356n2
178.1-4
119
i .18.5
441
178.5-8
120
i .20.1
396n109
180.33-6
439n61
i .20.2
367
183-4
87n33
i .23.4
423
183.34-184.6
88
i .27.3
496n48
184
86n32
i .27.5
465n70
262.28-31
150n155
i .28.4
496n48
278.12-14
143
i i .4.15-17
18n66
284.10-17
75n57, 140n145
i i .20.4
438
284.13-17
137
i i .25.5
445
302.9
77
i v .3.11
545
324.19-22
82
i v .9.1
239
325.31-328.7
82
i v .11
471, 575n33
326.20-2
78n10, 79
i v .11.1-4
575
326.22-328.7
79
i v .12.1
572
326.22-5
80
i v .12.1-5
576n34, 295n1
326.31-2
81
i v .19.4
441
327.33-4
81n17
i v .21.1-4
571
344-5
154
345
105n73
345.13-17
156
[876]
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
 Index locorum
877
345.24-30
153n161
A m m o n i u s
373.28-35
152
 APr. 
374.23-35
156n173
28.9-13
136n141
390.1-9
81
70.11-15
152n160
402.1-405.16
75n56
 Int. 
402.3-19
102
2.31-2
122n114, 123
404.21-4
108n82
90.12-20
78n5
 De Sens. 
56-63
269n12
[A n d r o n i c u s ]
 Fat. 
 Pass. 
172.12
536n39
1
581
172.17
489n30, n31
173.13
489n30, 536n39
A n o n y m u s  i n So p h i s t i c o s El e n c h o s
174.1
536n39
58.29-33
166n198
176.14-24
120n109
177.8-9
119n108
A n o n y m u s  i n Th e a e t e t u m
181.3-182.20
533n32
col. 5.18-6.31
681n18, 764
191.30-192.28
450
col. 11.12-40
707n101
192.7
499
col. 22.39-42
282n33
199.14-18
722, 722n148
col. 65.33-9
256n92
199.14-22
725
205.24-206.2
533n32, 538
A n o n y m u s Lo n d i n e n s i s
205.30
575n33
x x i .18-23
610n43
206.2-207.3
538
x x i .23-33
608n39
207.5-21
538
x x x i i i .43-51
608n39
 Mant. 
131.5
565
A p o l l o n i u s Dy s c o l u s
134-6
269n12
 Conj. 
 Mixt. 
219.12-24
110n88
216.9
775
219.18-19
135n140
216.14-17
561
222.25-6
111n91
216.14-218.6
390
223.1
111n91
216.25-217.2
565n13, 566
218.1-2
561
A p o l l o n i u s  o f Pe r g e
218.3
445
 Conica
 Top. 
i .192.5-11
588
1.19
68n22
8.16-17
155
A p u l e i u s
8.19
155
 Int. 
8.20-22
155n168
189.1-3
xiii
10.7-10
136
190.3
203n161
10.10-12
136
191.6-15
102
14-15
152n160
20 0.15-18
155
93.9-10
107, 125
20 0.15-19
72n41
188.19-28
168
20 0.17
72
Fr. i (text in Vitelli
159n181, 168n199
201.4-7
136
1902)
209.10-14
138
A r i s t o c l e s
[A l e x a n d e r  o f Ap h r o d i s i a s ]
 ap.  Eus.  PE
 SE
x i v .18.1-4
244
125.13-18
160n182
x i v .18.2
232n9
170.29
168n199
x i v .19.1-7
251n77
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
878
 Index locorum
A r i s t o c l e s ( cont.)
 Int. 
x i v .19.1
252n81, 254, 256n91
18a6-8
516
x i v .19.2-7
257n94
18b9-11
91n41
x v .2.13
774
18b26-31
516
x v .15.14.1
436
19a7
516
 Metaph. 
A r i s t o t e l e s
〈.986b21
234n15
 APo
〈.992a20-2
588
i .3
231, 508
〈.993b14-19
24n90
71b26-33
508
〉.996a29-b1
251n78
72b19-25
508
〉.998a2-4
587
76a41
585
〉.1002a28-b11
359n12
89b33
454
⌫.1006a6-9
508
 APr. 
⌫.1007b20
246n55
45b17
82
⌫.1008a30-4
245
50a39-b2
78, 81
⌫.1009b12
239n31
 Cael. 
⌫.1008b15-19
245n49
270b5-12
461n48
⌫.1009b19
473n115
271b9-11
588
⌬.1021b20-33
716n132
278b21-a11
460n41
⌭.1026a19
452
297a8-b23
421
⌰.3
360n15
297b23-298b20
421
⌰.1046b29-32
88n35
303a2-4
356
⌱.1053a35
246n55
 De An. 
⌲.5-6
246n55
404a27
239n31
⌳.8.1074a38-b14
470
409a4
593n10
⌵.3.1090b5-7
593n10
413b21-4
475n125
 MM
415b28
563n9
1205b20ff. 
656n41
427a24
473n115
 PA
 EN
670b31-3
603n29
i .7
684n26
677a15-19
603n29
1104a11-14
532
687a7-23
504
1105a32
716
 Phys. 
1105b18
532
i i .3
479
1109a24-30
732n169
i i .195a33-b3
495
1109b14-23
732n169
i v .208a11-14
442
1109b30-1110a1
514
i v .212a20
473n115
1110b9-17
514
i v .219a18-19
473n115
1113b3-6
514
v i .2
379
1114a31-b4
515
v i .187a1-3
357
1118b8-27
658n45
v i .232b20-233a12
422n23
1144a13-20
731n166
v i .10
356, 359, 377, 378
1144b28-30
716n130
v i i .250a19-25
162
1144b32
718n136
v i i i .250b25
438
1153a2-6
656n41
 Polit. 
1153a14-15
648
1256b15-22
449n74
1153b19
625
1338a27
473n115
1172a1-8
56
1172b9-15
634n36
 Protr. (ed. Düring)
1172b9-1173a13
648n21
Fr. b 13
708n105
1174b2-1175a3
656n43
 SE
1179b20-31
705n93
165b23-4
158
 GC
179a33ff. 
160
315b9
239n31
180a23-b7
162
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
 Index locorum
879
180b2-7
168n199
B o e t h i u s
183b17-33
24
 Cic
 Top. 
355-8
134
10 0b23-6
157
 Hyp. Syll. 
113a24-32
168
i .1.3
79n10
141b15-22
593n10
i .1.5
79n12
143b11-32
593n11
i .3.2
79n12
i .3.3
79
[A
i .9.2-3
80n16
r i s t o t e l e s ]
 Lin. Insec. 
i i i .1-6
81n17
968a19-22
375n56
 Int. 
 Mund. 
2.i i .217.26-8
74
39169
412
2.i i .234
86, 87n33, 527n22
2.i i .234-235
86, 86n32, 87
2.i i .234.27-235.4
118
A r i u s   D i d y m u s
2.i i .412
87n33
 ap.  Eus.  PE  xv.20.2
466n77
 ap.  Stob. 
C a e l i u s A u r e l i a n u s
i .11-13
397n110
 Acut. Morb. 
i .105.13-18
395
i i .6.32
605n34
i .106.11-13
394n103, 399
i .106.18-23
398
i .106.7
399n115
C a l c i d i u s
i .132.27
386
 In Tim. 
i .138.14-139.4
483
220
572
i .153.7-22
437
i .161.8-11
396
C a s s i o d o r u s
i .166.4-27
444
 Instit. 
i .179.2-3
404
i i .3.13
134
i .184.8-10
412
i .213.15-27
440
C e l s u s
 Med  i (Prooem.)
A t h e n a e u s
17
606
 Deipn. 
18
611
41a-c
741n6
23-4
60 0n21
59d-f
58n19
27
512, 611
186c
72n40
36
606
267b
740n5
40-4
610n42
336d
235n21
54
509, 611n45
339a
787n16
464d
23n87
C h r y s i p p u s
544d
258
 ap.  Phld.  De Piet. 
461n44
546f
634n37, 643, 666
( PHerc.  1428)
561c
744, 760
col. 7.31-8.4
 ap.  Plu.  Stoic. Rep. 
A u g u s t i n u s
1036f
76
 Acad. 
1037b
66n8
i i i .38
324n6, 450
1052f
563
 C.D. 
1054c
397n110
v i i i .7
68n25
 Log. Ze-t. ( PHerc.  307)
 Dial. 
i i .17-26
69
i i i .84-6
155n170
i i i .13-14
93n45
 Ep. 
v .14, 17
98n57
118.30
269n12
x i .19-30
97n55
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
880
 Index locorum
C i c e r o
i i .77-8
303n10
 Acad
i i .78
335, 338
i .38
723
i i .79-83
341
i .39
436
i i .80
341n45
i .40-2
295n1
i i .82
341
i .41
297, 298n3, 312
i i .83
341n44
i .42
305, 307, 317, 319
i i .83-90
342n47
i .43-6
325n7
i i .84
344
i .44
327n12
i i .84-5
309
i .44-5
639
i i .84-6
344n52
i .45
233n11, 328, 330n20, 
i i .88
343
639
i i .88-90
342n48
i .45-6
329
i i .90
343
i .46
232n7
i i .91
66
i i .16
324n5, 327n12
i i .91-8
345n56, 345n57
i i .17
298n3
i i .93
174
i i .17-31
295n1
i i .93-4
174
i i .20
256n90
i i .94
174
i i .28
346n58
i i .95
159n180, 164, 168, 
i i .28-9
331n24
351n73
1 i .32
347n63, 416n7
i i .96
153n163
i i .33
349
i i .97
169n202
i i .33-4
347n62
i i .98
59n23, 107, 115
i i .33-6
344n54
i i .99
337n39, 348, 349n68
i i .34
611
i i .99-101
348n64
i i .35-6
348n65
i i .101
341n44, 349n68
i i .36
349
i i .103
338
i i .40
341, 344n53, 346
i i .104
337, 337n39, 347n63, 
i i .41
341
349n68
i i .42
345n56
i i .106
587
i i .47-48
345
i i .108
334, 336
i i .47-58
342n47
i i .109
346n58
i i .50
311
i i .109-10
331n24
i i .51
343
i i .110
346
i i .51-4
342n48
i i .112
302, 303n10
i i .52
343
i i .116
594
i i .54-8
344n52
i i .118
23n85
i i .55
344
i i .119
461n44
i i .58
344n54, 346n60
i i .120
466n76
i i .59
334n32, 338n40
i i .122
609
i i .59-60
325n7
i i .129
23n85
i i .66
327n12
i i .135
777
i i .66 -7
334n32
i i .139
336n36
i i .67
326n11, 335n35
i i .142
256n90, 263n3
i i .68
335n34, 338n40
i i .143
71, 84, 106
i i .69
59
i i .143-6
295n1
i i .73
8n19, 237n26
i i .145
65n4
i i .76
256n90
i i .148
336
i i .76 -7
327n12
 Ad Att. 
i i .76 -8
325n7, 334n32, 
i i .16.3
741
341n46
x i i i .32
741n6
i i .77
299, 302n8, 302n9, 
 Ad Fam. 
305n11, 309, 326n11, 
i x .4
87n33
640
x v .9.3
23n85
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
 Index locorum
881
 Brut. 
28
519
309
65n4, 72n42
28-9
534
 De Orat. 
30
534
i .139-40
20n74
31
520
i .187-9
592n9
32-3
519
i i .157
66n5, 66n8, 71
34
496
i i i .61
23n85
36
495
i i i .62
241n37
39
529
i i i .67
23n85, 232n7, 327
40
529
 Div. 
41
486n16, 488
i .2
598n19
42
530
i .6
471n103, 598
42-3
487n23
i .14
526
44
488, 489
i .36 -7
598n19
 Fin. 
i .83-4
68n27
i .17
648n22
i .97-9
599n20
i .19
423
i .101-2
535
i .20
431
i .111
598n19
i .22
68n16
i .124-5
737n184
i .30
280, 649
i .125
91n41
i .30-1
276n22
i .127
721
i .31
650
i i .1-4
7n16
i .37
656
i i .13-15
535
i .42-54
667
i i .26
535
i .55
661
i i .40
456n22
i .63
262
i i .87-97
598
i .64
262, 646
i i .88
598
i .65
668
i i .90
598
i .66
668, 756
i i .91
599
i .66 -7
668
i i .91-5
599n20
i .67
756
i i .97
598n19
i .67-8
668, 756
i i .97-9
598
i .69
669
i i .129
720
i .70
669
i i .148
477n132
i i .2
232n7, 325n8, 330n17
i i .160
465
i i .4
282n33
 Fat. 
i i .6 -19
652
2-13
105n73
i i .10
655
11-15
108, 113, 155n170
i i .17
65n4
12
87n33, 107
i i .20-30
652
12-15
118, 118n104
i i .31-2
652, 654
13
87n33, 117n103
i i .34-5
18n68
14
90
i i .35
241n37
15
112, 112n92, 115n98, 
i i .36
276n22, 649n25
173n206, 537
i i .36 -7
650n27
16
537
i i .37-8
653
17
87n33
i i .69
666
19
91n41
i i .82
669
20
94n52, 114
i i .88
665
21
517
i i .9
655
22-3
556
i i .9-10, 16, 75
654
23
518, 521, 522
i i i -v
22n82
24
488
i i i .3
649n25
25
521
i i i .7
16
27
91n41
i i i .16
565n14, 679
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
882
 Index locorum
C i c e r o   ( cont.)
 ND
i i i .16 -17
678
i .2
23n85
i i i .17
315
i .4
475, 535
i i i .18
602
i .5
23n85
i i i .20
727n156, 728, 
i .6 -7
7n16
729n162
i .11
325n8, 330n17
i i i .21
689
i .12-16
291
i i i .22
686n36
i .18
456n22
i i i .24
698n68
i .18-43
21-2
i i i .26
721
i .23
466n76
i i i .32
717
i .33
454
i i i .33
688
i .36
450, 462n53
i i i .33-4
689
i .36 -41
461
i i i .36 -8
726
i .38
471n104
i i i .44
23n85
i .43-4
278, 650n27
i i i .48
715n129, 726
i .44
279
i i i .58-9
730
i .45
279, 463n57
i i i .60
735
i .46 -9
456
i i i .60-1
736
i .49
456, 472, 472n109
i i i .62
763
i .50
474
i i i .62-3
761, 763
i .61
477n132
i i i .64
733
i .62
608
i i i .67
734
i .62-4
279, 476
i i i .68
761, 765
i .68
474
i i i .69
756n41
i .72
648n22
i i i .70
756n41
i .85
21n79, 464n63
i i i .72
68n21
i .87-90
290
i i i .72-3
711
i .97-8
290
i i i .75
722
i .105
472n109
i i i .117
693n51
i .107
454
i v .21
724
i .109
474n121
i v .56
725
i .115
463
i v .76
724
i .118
469n93
i v .79
744n16, 775, 
i i .4-15
453
777
i i .5
471n102
v .3
674n71
i i .12
471n102
v .10
330n18
i i .13-15
470
v .16
23n85
i i .15
460
v .16 -20
617n1
i i .16
460
v .16 -23
18n68
i i .16 -44
453
v .20
632
i i .17
460
v .23
241n37
i i .18
459n38
v .27
168n20 0
i i .20-2
68n25
 Inv. 
i i .21
458
i i .116 -48
20
i i .22
459, 676n4
i i .159-78
12
i i .23-5
389, 440
 Leg. 
i i .29-34
475
i .18-19
767
i i .37-8
460
i .23
767
i i .38-9
461
i .27
707n99
i i .41
461n48
i .33
763
i i .57
465
i .55
23n85
i i .73-167
465







i i i .14
741n7
i i .76 -9
466, 466n74
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
 Index locorum
883
i i .87-162
466
 Rep. 
i i .88
504
i .10
755n40
i i .93
505
i .56 -64
744
i i .95-6
454
 Top. 
i i .98-153
449
6
68n26
i i .115
444
53-7
134
i i .130-3
466n76
54
134n137
i i .133
449
54-7
129n128
i i .154
767
59
530
i i .154-62
466n76
 Tusc. 
i i .161-8
535
i .18
23n85
i i .162
475
i .21
19
i i i .5
477n132
i .42
388n91
i i i .10
15
i .79
23n85
i i i .12-52
475
i .83
638
i i i .17-18
453
i i .4
22
i i i .20-1
476
i i i .2
709n107
i i i .22-3
459n37
i i i .2-3
706n97, 708
i i i .23
476
i i i .30
713
i i i .29
475n122
i i i .32-3
642
i i i .29-31
475
i i i .41
654
i i i .32-3
475
i i i .41-2
634n37
i i i .34
475
i i i .74-5
701n81
i i i .37
448
i i i .76 -7
713n122
i i i .38-9
476
i i i .83
709n108
i i i .44
475n122, 476
i v .9
712
i i i .63
461n47
i v .23
712, 712n119
 Off. 
i v .27
712n119
i .6
241n37
i v .29
724
i .9
732, 765
i v .37
720n141
i .11-18
719n139
i v .57
713
i .11-20
763
v .9
68n26
i .13-19
619
v .11
23n85
i .21
765
v .26
22n83
i .46
727
v .31
22n83
i .107-10
707
v .73-5
22n83
i i i .1-7
765
v .85
241n37
i i i .7
32n170, 765
v .88-9
22n83
i i i .7-10
733
v .93
659
i i i .8
765
i i i .13
727
[ C i c e r o ]
i i i .15
727, 731n164
 Rhet. Her. 
i i i .28
763
i .19-20
20n74
i i i .42
734
i i .14
20n74
i i i .50-7
734n177
i i i .89-90
765
C l e a n t h e s
i i i .91-2
734n177
 Hymn ( SVF  i.122)
 Orat. 
3-15
466
113
65n4
 Parad. 
C l e m e n s A l e x a n d r i n u s
3
68n25
 Protr. 
4
722n147
58
450
20
724
68.5
470n95
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
884
 Index locorum
C l e m e n s   A l e x a n d r i n u s   ( cont.)
D i o g e n e s L a e r t i u s
 Strom. 
i .13-15
234n14
i .17.83
495
i .13-20
618
i i .21.130.8
254n85
i .15
234, 234n15
i i .127.1-133.7
18n68
i .16
323n5
i v .3.10.1
467
i .18
360
i v .5
694
i .19
633
i v .26
768
i .20
233n13
v .1.11.5
160
i i .14-15
457n32
v .1.11.6
158n175
i i .65-104
251n77, 633n29
v .14.109
469n92
i i .66
634
v i i .3.19
706
i i .85
253, 633
v i i i .9.25
485n11, 492, 495n41
i i .86
252, 253, 654
v i i i .9.26
498
i i .86 -90
22n82
v i i i .9.26.3-4
40 0n120
i i .86 -93
634n34
v i i i .9.26.4
4, 72, 73n49
i i .87
21
v i i i .9.27
497n51
i i .87-8
618n3, 634
v i i i .9.30
496n46
i i .88
634n36
v i i i .9.32
485n11
i i .89
634, 655
v i i i .9.33
486, 487
i i .89-90
254, 652, 657
i i .90
255n86, 636, 657
C l e o m e d e s
i i .91
635, 636n39, 637
 Cael. 
i i .92
21, 68n17, 251n78, 
i .1.5
444
256n89
i .1.43-54
441
i i .93
637n43
i .1.106 -9
442
i i .93-6
637
i .1.139-42
401-2
i i .93-9
621
i .2.1-9
448
i i .93-103
634n34
i .7
429n40
i i .94
623, 638n44
i .8.10-14
397
i i .94-5
632
i i .5.92-101
399n113
i i .96
637
i i .97
636
D e m e t r i u s  o f L a c o n i a
i i .97-8
618n3
 PHerc.  1012, col. 23
604n33
i i .98
637
 PHerc.  1012, col. 
276n24
i i .99
623, 634n31, 637
42-47
i i .106
25n97
 PHerc.  1012, col. 
602n27
i i .108
75, 160, 160n183, 162
46-7
i i .111
160n183, 161n189
 PHerc.  1012, col. 
651n29
i i .112
75
51-2
i i .115
623
 PHerc.  1012, col. 58
604n33
i i .135
75
 PHerc.  1013
464n61, 596n15
i i .140
630n25
i i i .2
787n16
D e x i p p u s
i i i .6
25n97
 Cat.  30.20-6
404
i i i .47
17n63
i v .1
58n16
D i o C h r y s o s t o m u s
i v .2
59
 Or. 
i v .28
324
36.20
768
i v .29
594
71.5
720n144
i v .29-30
62
i v .32
58n17, 323n5, 594
D i o d o r u s  S i c u l u s
i v .33
250n72, 331, 331n22
i .8.1
752n35
i v .42
62
i .69-71
743n12
i v .46 -54
632
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
 Index locorum
885
i v .60
58n18
v i i .36
630n27, 740n5
i v .67
324n5
v i i .38
17n63, 25n98
v .5
25n97
v i i .39-41
xiv-xv
v .42
74
v i i .41
65n3
v .42-50
74n51, 741n7
v i i .42
66
v .49
73, 74
v i i .43
66n10
v .53
58
v i i .43-4
66n11, 158
v .57
602n28
v i i .44
158n175
v .59
74n50
v i i .45
121
v .59-60
741n7
v i i .46
302n8, 311, 711
v .62
58n16
v i i .46 -7
68n21
v .70-1
58
v i i .47
66n5, 66n8
v .80-1
741n7
v i i .48
66n5
v .88
74n50
v i i .49-54
295n1
v i .2
759
v i i .50
302n9, 305n11, 306, 
v i .10-13
625n17
572, 574
v i .11
625, 759
v i i .51
340n43, 346n60
v i .24
629, 735n178
v i i .52
298, 457, 471n105
v i .27
626
v i i .52-3
593
v i .29
626
v i i .53
320, 401n124, 
v i .30-1
628
473n114, 689
v i .38
627, 630
v i i .54
316, 317, 318, 319
v i .45
626
v i i .55
72, 408
v i .51
626
v i i .55-8
71
v i .54
625
v i i .58
103
v i .63
768
v i i .60
593n10
v i .65
626
v i i .61
160n185
v i .70-1
627
v i i .62
66, 66n10, 72
v i .72
621, 630, 758
v i i .63
121, 401
v i .73
627
v i i .65
93n46, 94, 95
v i .80
6n11, 629
v i i .66
93, 94, 122n113
v i .85
631
v i i .68
72, 780
v i .85-98
630n26
v i i .68-9
96, 103, 136
v i .86
735n178
v i i .69
97n56, 102, 114
v i .87
630
v i i .69-70
97
v i .96
630
v i i .70
78n5, 98, 10 0, 
v i .98
631
10 0n62, 102, 103
v i .103
25n98, 68n18, 233n13
v i i .71
71, 72, 105n74, 106, 
v i .103-5
625n17
108, 109
v i .104-5
758, 759
v i i .71-4
105n75
v i i .1-19
xiv
v i i .72
105n74, 106, 109, 
v i i .2
720n143
110n87
v i i .2-3
623
v i i .72-3
111, 111n90
v i i .4
6n11, 70n31, 73, 630, 
v i i .73
101, 107
676, 740n5, 759n45
v i i .74
109
v i i .6 -9
791
v i i .75
86, 112, 116, 118, 527
v i i .10-12
457n32
v i i .76
29, 72, 116
v i i .14
xiv
v i i .77
105n73, 123, 130
v i i .18
68n25
v i i .78
105n73, 127, 131, 137, 
v i i .20
68n25
138, 148, 151, 152
v i i .23
533, 738n186
v i i .79
126, 127, 152, 153, 
v i i .31-2
621
157
v i i .32
68n19
v i i .80
105n73, 106, 127, 128
v i i .32-4
757
v i i .81
106, 128
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
886
 Index locorum
D i o g e n e s   L a e r t i u s   ( cont.)
v i i .147
462
v i i .82
112, 158n176, 
v i i .147-9
461n46
160n187, 172
v i i .149
471n103, 496n48, 780
v i i .83
66n9, 68n22
v i i .150-1
391
v i i .84
710
v i i .151
390, 408
v i i .85
565n14
v i i .158
581n46
v i i .85-6
679
v i i .160
68n20, 685n31
v i i .86
564, 574
v i i .162
6n11
v i i .87
676, 684n27, 684n28
v i i .163
70n31, 630n27
v i i .87-8
685
v i i .166
6n11, 70n31, 631n27
v i i .88
685n29, 711n116, 
v i i .167
6n11, 631n27, 70n31
715n126, 737, 766
v i i .170
6n11
v i i .89
676, 684, 685n28, 
v i i .174
466n77
705n92, 715, 763
v i i .174-5
6n11, 70n31, 73
v i i .90
716n132
v i i .175
159n177, 461, 630n27, 
v i i .91
722
740n5, 760
v i i .92
719
v i i .177
116, 334, 791
v i i .94
681, 691n46, 716n132
v i i .178
70n31, 73, 593n10, 
v i i .95
688
740n5
v i i .102
692
v i i .180
69, 70n35
v i i .102-3
693
v i i .185
791
v i i .103
696n62
v i i .187
98, 161n189, 161n190
v i i .104-5
692
v i i .188
759n45
v i i .105
692
v i i .188-9
762n48
v i i .105-7
693n51
v i i .189-202
6n11
v i i .106
692
v i i .190
98
v i i .107
333n27, 695n59, 
v i i .191
23n87, 72
697n66, 728, 728n160
v i i .193-5
130
v i i .108
730
v i i .194
72, 115, 131, 144n151
v i i .108-9
733
v i i .195
125, 137-8
v i i .110
699, 70 0n74
v i i .195-6
126
v i i .121
22n82, 628, 741n8, 
v i i .196
77, 122n113
780
v i i .196 -8
163n194
v i i .122
627n20
v i i .197
72, 73, 98, 122n113, 
v i i .123
723n149
161
v i i .127
22n82, 715, 716
v i i .198
70n32, 155, 159n177, 
v i i .127-8
721
160
v i i .128
766
v i i .199
593n10
v i i .129
760
v i i .202
70n33
v i i .130
735n180, 736, 736, 
v i i i .24-35
25n96
760, 762n49
v i i i .91-i x .20
24n93
v i i .131
744, 759n45, 758, 760
i x .20
234n17, 235
v i i .132
382
i x .21
234n16, 235
v i i .134
385, 385n82, 386, 
i x .44
425n31
435n54
i x .45
656n41
v i i .134-6
561n3
i x .51
454
v i i .135
592
i x .61-108
640n46
v i i .135-6
387
i x .61-2
242n40
v i i .136
435
i x .62-3
244n46
v i i .137-8
561
i x .63
240n35, 243
v i i .139
390
i x .63-4
243
v i i .140
441n65
i x .63-5
657n44
v i i .141
437
i x .64
457n32, 477n133, 620
v i i .142
436, 450, 775
i x .65
457n32
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
 Index locorum
887
i x .66
245n54
D i o g e n e s  o f O e n o a n d a (ed. Smith)
i x .67
232, 236
Fr. 9.v i .3-13
470n96
i x .70
241
Fr. 10.i v .10-v .6
470n97
i x .71
236
Fr. 16
455n15
i x .71-3
236
Fr. 29.i i i
463n57
i x .72
238, 361n19
Fr. 30
770n58
i x .89
591
Fr. 37
542n1, 546
i x .96 -7
612
Fr. 54.i i i
423
i x .105
249, 249n68
Fr. 112
644
i x .109
609
Fr. 125-6
647
i x .110
235n20
i x .112
235n20
D i o g e n i a n u s
i x .114
249
 ap.  Eus.  PE
i x .115
235n20, 250n71
i v .3.2
535
i x .115-16
251n76, 609
i v .8.1
527
i x .137
635
x .3-9
28
D i o n y s i u s  o f H a l i c a r n a s s u s
x .4
655
 Comp. 
x .5
644
31
69n29
x .8
477n134
31-2
70n36
x .17
58n16
 Lys. 
x .22
657, 664
7
455n16
x .24
6n11
x .25
6n11, 783
DK (⫽Diels/Kranz,  Fragmente der
x .27
463
 Vorsokratiker)
x .27-8
6n11
21 b 34
235
x .28
664n55, 669, 741n8, 
29 a 25
357
743
29 b 1
357, 375
x .30
669, xiv
31 b 35
426n33
x .31
68n16, 263n3, 271, 
59 a 88
426n33
650n27
68 a 67
426n33
x .31-2
340n43
68 a 69
426n33
x .32
266n7, 268, 593
68 b 191
656n41, 657n44
x .33
276, 282, 650n27
69 a 2
237n20
x .34
283n34
70 a 6
237
x .35
275
70 a 9-21
237
x .66
602n27
79 a 23
237n20
x .97
9n23
70 a 25
237n20
x .117-20
669
80 b 3
705n93
x .118, 122
665
x .119
22n82, 623, 669, 
E l i a s
670n63, 741n8
 APr. 
x .120
9n23, 464n64
134.4-138.13
67n13
x .121
665n58, 755n40, 756
 Cat. 
x .133-5
665
133.18-23
777n8
x .136
9n23, 652, 653n35, 
178.1-12
160n186
655, 656
x .136 -7
633n30
E p i c r a t e s (ed. Kassel-Austin  PCG)
x .136 -8
22n82
Fr. 10
57n12
x .137
546n8, 650, 657, 661
x .138
9n23
E p i c t e t u s
x .139
456, 473
 Diss. 
i .1.7
577n36
i .1.7-12
539
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
888
 Index locorum
E p i c t e t u s   ( cont.)
42-3
373, 374
i .6.13
577n36
43
373
i .7.1
126
43-4
501
i .7.22
122
46
552n20
i .17.16 -18
785
47
379n64, 552n20
i .17.21-3
578
48
269, 288
i .25.11-13
122, 122n114, 123n115
49
552n20
i .28.7-9
577
49-53
262, 264, 272n20
i i .1.4
577n36
50
267, 268, 270, 271, 
i i .6.9
693, 734, 736
273
i i .6.9-10
703n89
50-1
283, 286
i i .9.8
105n74
50-2
265, 265n5
i i .10.5-6
736n183
51
288
i i .13.24
623
52
272
i i .16.35
623
52-3
269
i i .18.24-6
577, 578
53
271
i i .19
87n33
54
379
i i .19.1
88, 89
54-5
379n67
i i .19.1-5
116, 118n104
55-6
373
i i .19.8
89
56
374
i i .19.9
72, 73
56-9
374n54
i i .20.2-3
113
60
421n22
i i .22.29
577n36
61
421, 422, 501
i i .25.1-3
67n15
61-2
379
i i i .9.21
158n175
62
377, 379n64
i i i .12.14-15
578
63
276, 543, 545, 545n6, 
i i i .21.10
126
549, 550
i i i .22.95
6n12
63-8
544
i v .4.34
6n12
64
370n38
i v .6.34
577n36
65-6
545
i v .8.12
73
67
370n38, 382, 550
 Ench. 
68
276
2
703, 703n88
68-9
273, 381
30
409n144
68-71
380, 381, 543n2
53
6n12, 738
68-73
379n67
70-1
381
E p i c u r u s
72
262
 Ep. Hdt. 
72-3
370n39, 381
35
5
73
293, 424n28
37
282
74
424, 464
37-8
262, 263, 263n2, 276, 
75
752n36
363
75-6
262, 432, 752n36
38
263, 266, 275, 
76-7
463
283n34, 286, 363
76-8
504
38-73
362
78
505, 506
39
280n30, 282, 286, 
79-80
506
364, 365, 50 0, 542, 
81
463
549
82
272, 275, 280
39-40
286, 366
83
5
40
369
84-5
5
40-1
372
88
412
41
419
91
596n15
41-2
373
93
596n15
42
419
113-14
596n15
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
 Index locorum
889
 Ep. Men. 
6
750
122
619
7
749n30, 750, 755
123
278, 455n18
11
418, 646
123-4
281, 455, 463, 645n10
11-12
619
124
455, 465n67, 662, 
12
645
663
13
749, 750
125
663
14
669, 750, 755
127
657
15
623, 659, 660
128
632, 649, 651, 652, 
17
667, 754
653, 660
18
634n37, 654, 660, 663
129
275
19
664
129-30
662
20
660, 662, 663, 664
129-32
658
21
623, 660, 663
130-2
659
24
263n3, 266, 283, 
131
632, 654, 661
283n34
132
637, 643, 651, 666
27-8
668, 669
133
293
28
750
133-4
644n8
29
623, 659n48
135
464, 644, 670
30
623, 659, 660
 Ep. Pyth. 
31
753
85-7
507
31-5
667
86
288, 596n15
32
753n37
86-8
288
33
753n37, 754
88-90
425
34
754
89
427, 464
35
749n30, 754
90
426, 428n39
36
278, 753n37
91
274, 464
38
754
92
288, 426, 428, 430
40
668, 750, 756
92-3
429, 507n61
 Nat.  xxv (ed. Arrighetti)
94-6
507n61
x x v
556
95
288
[34] 21-2
524, 555
96
288
[34] 26
532n30
97
463
[34] 26-30
524
98
288
[34] 28
557
99-104
507n61
[34] 29
525, 557n32
105-6
507n61
 Sent. Vat. 
113
463
21
623
115
463
23
668n61
 Fr. (ed. Usener)
24
470
30
382n73
25
623, 664
67
655
28
756
202
661
29
673n68
266-92
362n21
33
623, 655, 658, 
456
658
665n58
483
660n49
34
756
530
755
40
525
 KD
41
670n64
1
456, 456n23, 463n57, 
46
623
472, 473, 645, 
47
665
646n14, 665
52
668
1-4
660
54
646
2
645, 662
59
659
3
646, 660, 662
65
623
4
646, 661, 665
66
672n66
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
890
 Index locorum
E p i c u r u s   ( cont.)
 AA
77
661
i i .288K
610n42
78
668
 Adv. Jul. 
79
646n14
x v i i i a .278K
486
x v i i i a .278-9K
482
E p i p h a n i u s
 Art. Sang. 
 Adv. Haer. 
i v .729K
602n28
i i i .2.9
469
v i .708-9K
608n39
 At. Bil. 
E u c l i d e s
v .131-2K
603n30
 El. 
 Caus. Puls. 
i def. 2, 4, 5
592
i x .2-3K
491
v .2.1-4.4
588
i x .107K
488
x prop. 1
588
 CC
1
388n91
E u d e m u s
2.1-4
490
 ap.  Simp.  Phys. 
419
5.2-3
482
467.25-6
6.3
482
6.5
483
E u s e b i u s
 Comp. Med. Loc. 
 PE
x i i 527K
611
x i .1.1.2
789n23
 CP
x i .1.3.1
787
i .9-10
509, 611n45
x i v .2.4
239
i i .11
508
x i v .6.5
250
v i i .76 -90
495n42
x i v .6.12-13
327
v i i i .10 0
510
x i v .16.5
246
v i i i .102-4
611n45
x i v .17
246
x .126
510
x i v .18.1
231
x i i i .162-4
511, 512, 610
x i v .18.1-5
246, 246n47
x i i i .164
510
x i v .18.27
242n40
x i i i .166 -7
611n45
x i v .18.31-2
252, 252n80, 634, 
x i i i .167
510
652
x i i i .170
512
x i v .18.32
255
x i v .174
510
x i v .19.8
237n24, 239
x i v .174-6
489n28
x i v .19.9
239
x v i .197-204
610
x i v .20.1
239
 Diff. Puls. 
x i v .20.14
648n22
v i i i .759K
601n24
x v .2.1
787
 Dig. Puls. 
x v .4.6
787, 789n23
i .2
249n68
x v .5.3
789n23
 Foet. Form. 
x v .20.2
563n8
i v .674K
601n24
x v .62.7-11
251n78
i v .678-9K
610
 Hipp. Aph. 
F a v o r i n u s
x v i i i a .56K
612n48
 ap.  Gell. xiv.1-36
535
x v i i i b .390K
612n48
 Hipp. Off. Med. 
 FDS
x v i i i b .644K
611
315-21
410n146
 Inst. Log. 
479-87
408n140
i i i
105n75
699-708
395n106
i i i .1
79n12
827-73
406n137
i i i .3-5
79
831-65
402n125
i i i .5
103n69
G a l e n u s
i v
105n75
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
 Index locorum
891
i v .1
105n73
i i .88-93K
602n28
i v .6
103n69
i i .95-6K
608n39
v
105n75
i i .99K
604
v .1
125n140
 Opt. Doct. 
v .3-4
134
i .45K
594
v i .4
115
i .135-6K
611
v i .5
139n144
 Pecc. Dig. 
v i .7
134
v .72-3K
157
x i v .4-8
134
 PHP (ed. De Lacy)
x i v .6
125n140
i .6
601n24
x i v .10-11
135
i .6.13
568
x i v .11
125n140
i .7
602n26
x v .1-11
134
i .7.1
568
x v .9
134n136
i i .2.9-11
98
x v i i .1-4
154
i i .3.15-27
68n26
x v i i .2
153n161
i i .3.18-19
72
x v i i .5
152n159
i i .3.188
137, 143, 143n147
x v i i i .8
154
i i .3.188-90
137
x i x .5
23n86
i i .3.190
140n145
x i x .6
152, 152n159, 
i i .5.15-20
570
152n160
i i .5.71
568n21
x i x .9
70n34
i i .7.8
570
 Lib. Prop. 
i i .8
601n24
x i x .13K
786n14, 793n25
i i .8.40
564n12
x i x .38K
605n34
i i i .1
601
x i x .47-8K
10n31
i i i .1.10-15
567n18
x i x .47K
70n34, 74
i i i .1.16
567
 Loc. Aff. 
i i i .5.2
570
v i i i .14K
611
i v .2.10-18
582
v i i i .138K
712
i v .2.14-18
702
 Med. Exp. 
i v .7
777
i v
608n38
i v .7.7-8
705n94
v i i
608n38
i v .7.12-17
714n124
x v i .1
170, 172
i v .7.27
714
x v i .2
170
v .4
712n118
x v i i .1-3
170
v .6.3-29
685n31
x v i i .3
175
v i .6
602
x x .3
170
v i i .1.12-15
405
x x i v
512
v i i .3
603
 MM
v i i i .2.12-4
10
x .36 -7K
481n6
 Plen. 
x .65-7K
490n33
v i i .554-5K
612n48
x .97-9K
489n28
 Praes. Puls. 
x .107K
610n43
i x .386K
490n33
x .244k
611
 SI
x .460K
611
i 72-3K
512
 Nat. Fac. 
i 73K
511
i i .2K
603n30
i 74K
512
i i .3K
603n30
i 88K
511
i i .4K
602n28
i 88-9K
511n69
i i .6K
604
 Soph. 
i i .8K
603n30
x i v .595-8K
158n174
i i .78K
603n30
 Subf. Emp. (ed. Deichgräber)
i i .87K
603n30
1, pp. 43.2-3
609
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
892
 Index locorum
G a l e n u s   ( cont.)
x v i i i .2.10
164n196
4, pp. 49.23-31
607
x i x .1.14-20
704
6, pp. 56.12-58.27
611
6, pp. 58.11-21
613
G r e g o r i u s T h a u m a t u r g u s
8, pp. 68.8-13
606
 Or. Pan. 
11, pp. 82.20-83.2
609
x i v .170-2
22n84
11, pp. 83.22-3
607
11, pp. 84.31-85.3
609
H e r m a r c h u s (ed. Longo Auricchio)
11, pp. 86.1-9
605n34
Fr. 32
456n25
 UP
i i i .364-5K
603n30
H e r o
i i i .537-8K
608n39
i v .14.10-18.6
592
i i i .673-4K
603
i v .16.5-16
593
 Ven. Sect. Er. 
i v .20.12-22
592
x i .153-4K
611n45
i v .22.14-21
592
x i .155K
510n66
x i .158K
603n30
H i e r o c l e s
x i .236 -7K
510n66
 El. Eth. 
col. 1.15-28
563
[ G a l e n u s]
col. 2.46-3.2
566
 Def. Med. 
col. 4.38-53
565
x i x .357K
610n42
col. 4.54-5.30
566
x i x .392
490
col. 6.10-22
566
x i x .393K
485n12, 485n14, 
col. 6.20-2
576
486n17
x i x .396K
612
H i p p o l y t u s
 Int. 
 Philos. 
x i v .683-4K
24n91
21.1
450
x i v .691-2K
485n12
 Ref. 
x i v .692K
486n15
i .13.2
427n35
 Qual. Incorp. 
i .21
540
x i x .483.13-16K
383
i .21.1
68n25
 Syn. Puls. 
i .22.3
456n22
v i i i .458
480n4, 486n19
A
I a m b l i c h u s
u l u s   G e l l i u s
 De an. ap.  Stob. 
v .10.1-16
159n179
i .368.12-20
405, 573
v i i .1
467
v i i .1.1
466n76
I s o c r a t e s
v i i .1-2
461
 Nicocles
v i i .2
706n98
14-26
744
v i i .2.10
487n23, 493n40
x i .5.1-8
233n12
x i v .1.26 -31
599n20
L a c t a n t i u s
x v i .2.1-13
161
 Inst. 
x v i .8.2
72n42
v .16
764
x v i .8.9
105n73
v i .7
327n12
x v i .8.9-14
105n75
v i .10-15
331n24
x v i .8.10
106
v i i .23
439n61
x v i .8.11
106
x v i .8.12
109
L u c i a n u s
x v i .8.13
110, 110n87
 Alex. 
x v i .8.13-14
111
21
795n27
x v i .8.14
110n88
25
795n27
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
 Index locorum
893
43
795n27
i .847-58
373n49
61
795n27
i .10 07
419
 Symp. 
i .10 08-51
419
23
158n176
i .1021-37
431n44
 Vit. Auc. 
i .1058-67
421
41-2
161
i .1101
445
42-3
160n184
i i .1-61
418
i i .17-19
653n36
L u c r e t i u s
i i .80-124
501
i .44-9
463n57
i i .83-5
501
i .59
363n25
i i .167-83
466
i .64-81
502
i i .184-215
420
i .66 -79
464
i i .216 -18
501
i .80-101
418
i i .216 -24
423
i .149-214
363
i i .218-24
502
i .150
499
i i .225-42
421, 501
i .159-73
287, 50 0
i i .243-50
423
i .160
363n25
i i .251-60
556n31
i .169
363n25
i i .251-93
526
i .176
363n25
i i .304-7
365
i .185
363n25
i i .381-477
379
i .189
363n25
i i .381-990
379n67
i .217-24
364
i i .444-5
501
i .221
363n25
i i .478-531
373
i .233
373n50
i i .481-2
373
i .238-49
364
i i .483-96
374
i .329-69
368
i i .498-9
373n52
i .335-9
286
i i .646 -51
456n23
i .370-83
502
i i .655-60
464n64
i .370-84
368
i i .737-841
501n58
i .384-97
368n36
i i .739-47
379
i .419-48
366n30
i i .753-4
366
i .422
280n30
i i .757-87
379
i .430-9
368
i i .842-64
501n58
i .445-82
369
i i .963-6
645n12
i .449-58
380
i i .973-9
501n58
i .449-82
379-67
i i .1023-104
427
i .459-63
370
i i .1058-65
431n44
i .464-82
370
i i .1090-104
418
i .469-70
371n41
i i .1122-74
425
i .471-82
371n43
i i i .18-24
456n23
i .483-4
372n44
i i i .31-6
544
i .503-39
372n47
i i i .94-7
544, 544n3
i .540-64
372n45
i i i .136 -44
544
i .584-98
372
i i i .138-42
602n27
i .599-608
377
i i i .141-2
276n24
i .599-634
374n54
i i i .161-7
550n16
i .615-22
375n56, 391
i i i .179-80
551
i .665-89
373n49
i i i .182-88
551
i .670-1
366
i i i .199-202
551
i .753-62
373n49
i i i .262-5
545
i .782-829
373n49
i i i .269-72
545
i .792-3
366
i i i .288-93
553
i .814-29
379
i i i .294-306
553n21
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
894
 Index locorum
L u c r e t i u s   ( cont.)
v .436
426, 427
i i i .323-6
546
v .445
426
i i i .335-6
546
v .450-1
427
i i i .347-8
546
v .470
428
i i i .350-69
546
v .509-32
429
i i i .421-4
544n5
v .509-33
507n61
i i i .425-30
552
v .526 -8
240n33
i i i .434-9
545
v .526 -33
289
i i i .519-20
366
v .531-3
240n33
i i i .806 -23
474n121
v .564-91
596n15
i i i .811-13
364
v .592-771
430
i i i .816 -18
365
v .650-5
430
i i i .819-23
474n120
v .666 -79
430
i i i .830-1094
418
v .705-50
430
i i i .870-93
663
v .705-70
507n61
i i i .894-9
663
v .837-48
432
i i i .966 -1023
663
v .925-1157
749n30
i v .23-35
503
v .1028-90
752n36
i v .129-42
270
v .1042
464
i v .193-4
503
v .1105-12
746-747n24
i v .256 -68
269
v .1143-50
747n24
i v .380-461
275
v .1161-93
470
i v .385
275
v .1169-71
279
i v .469-73
238n27
v .1169-93
281
i v .482-98
266n7
v .1218-40
418
i v .489-95
272n20
v .1344-5
240n33
i v .50 0-6
275
v i .1-42
418
i v .622-32
645n12
v i .7
464
i v .658-72
271
v i .76 -7
472
i v .668-70
271n16
v i .96 -534
507n61
i v .706 -21
271n16
v i .323-51
422
i v .722-48
270
v i .379-1094
418
i v .722-75
552n20
v i .535-607
507n61
i v .745-8
552
v i .703-11
289, 506
i v .746 -8
270n14
i v .779-880
271
M a c r o b i u s
i v .794-806
270n14
 Sat. 
i v .802-6
271
i .32.2
448
i v .812-13
272
i v .834-7
549n14
M a r c u s  A u r e l i u s
i v .836 -57
504
i i .3
539
i v .877-91
551-2
i v .10
539
i v .886 -91
503
i v .23
539
i v .898-906
503
i v .26
539
i v .1037-287
418
v .16
577
v .8-12
464
v i .50
703n88
v .146 -55
456
v .156 -69
504
M a r c i a n u s
v .156 -99
466
 Inst. 
v .187-94
431n44
i .11.25
740n5, 763
v .199
466
v .361-3
365
M a r t i a n u s C a p e l l a
v .419-31
431
i v .414-21
129n128, 134
v .432-48
426n34
i v .420
129n128, 131n30
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
 Index locorum
895
N e m e s i u s
 PHerc.  1191
554n23
 Nat. Hom. 
 PHerc.  1251, col. 
276n23
21.6-9
383
12.8-12
38
439
 PHerc.  1420
554n23
52.18-19
389
 PHerc.  1634
554n23
78.7-79.2
565n13, 567
78-9
68n27
P h i l o  o f  A l e x a n d r i a
81.6-10
567
 Aet. 
106.7-9
533
9
468n86
111.14-112.6
439n61
10-11
467
212.6-9
563n10
17
434
21
460n41
N u m e n i u s
39-43
467
 ap.  Eus.  PE
48
405n134
x i v .5.3
786n15
 Congr. 
x i v .5.8
789n21
8
66n8
x i v .5.11-14
250n72
146-7
592n9
x i v .5.12-14
331n22
 Leg. 
x i v .6.4-6
331n22
i .30
573
x i v .6.6
324n6
i i .22-3
390
x i v .8.1-10
336n36
 Prov. 
x i v .9.3
788n19
i .2-4
466
i .24-8
466n74
O r i g e n e s
i .33
466
 Cels. 
i .42-5
466
i i i .12
22n84
i i .62-8
466
i v .45
759
 QG
i v .68
439n61
i .64
445
v i i .15
137
i v .99
722
v i i .15.166 -7
138
 Princ. 
P h i l o d e m u s
i i i .1.2-3
564
 Acad. Hist. ( PHec.  1021 and 164)
i i i .1.3
578n38
col. v
61n29
v i i .86
564
col. 6.1-20
61n34
col. 6.34
25n97
P a n a e t i u s (ed. Van Straaten)
col. 6.41
58n19
Fr. 64-6
434
col. 6.41-7.14
58n17
Fr. 68
434
col. 18.1-7
58n17
col. 18.6
58n19
P a p y r i H e r c u l a n e n s e s   see also
col. 20.4-44
61n34
Demetrius of Laconia, Philodemus)
col. 20.43-4
324n5
 PHerc.  19/698
272n20
col. 22.35-23.3
58n15
 PHerc.  176
673n69
col. 22.35-24.16
61n34
 PHerc.  419
554n23
col. 23.2-3
61n30
 PHerc.  697
554n23
col. 24.28-25.16
58n18
 PHerc.  1020
295n1
col. 25.39-26.4
58n18
 PHerc.  1020, col. 
66n5
col. 26.4-11
324n5
1. 25
col. 27.1-7
58n18
 PHerc.  1020, col. 
68n23
col. 31.33-32.20
34n19
2-3
col. 32.32-42
61n34
 PHerc.  1042, col. 
274n21
col. 34.3-16
61n34
5b.6-8
col. 35.11-16
774
 PHerc.  1056
554n23
 Ad Cont. ( PHerc.  1005)
 PHerc.  1148
418n15
Fr. 111 Angeli
75n54, 648n23
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
896
 Index locorum
P h i l o d e m u s   ( cont.)
col. 16.35-8
293
col. 4.9-14
645
col. 16.38-17.2
293
 De Dis ( PHerc.  152/157)
col. 17.3-8
292
col. 4.8-13
456
col. 17.32-4
293
col. 8-20
463n58
col. 20.32-6
293
col. 10.25-30
456
col. 20.37-9
293
col. 13.20-41
456
col. 21.13-14
293
 De Epicuro ( PHerc.  1232)
col. 23.5-6
293
col. 18
653n36
col. 29.1-4
293
 De Libertate Dicendi ( PHerc.  1471)
col. 30.33-31.1
292
Fr. 1-53
671
col. 32.13-21
293, 606
Fr. 44
671
col. 32.31-33.1
291
 De Morte ( PHerc.  1050)
col. 32.31-33.9
292n39
i v , col. 12.2-14.14
663n53
col. 32.36
291
 De Piet. ( PHerc.  1077/1098)
col. 33.3
291
(ed. Obbink 1996 ⫽part 1)
col. 33.12-13
293
col. 3.63-70
474n119
col. 33.24-32
292
col. 4.10 0-4
474n120
col. 34.5-11
282n31
col. 7.181-9
474n120
col. 35.5
291
col. 7.189-90
463n56
col. 35.9-10
293
col. 7.189-201
474n119
col. 37.1-12
291
col. 8.205-19
474n117
col. 37.9-17
291
col. 8.206-7
463n56
col. 38.6-8
292n42
col. 12.320-37
474n117
 Stoic ( PHerc.  155 and 339)
col. 13.47-64
474n117
col. 9.2-15.20
759n45
col. 13.362-4
463n56
col. 15.26-7
740n5
col. 19.519-27
455
col. 15.31-16.1
759n45
col. 26.753-27.4
463n56
col. 15-20
629n24
col. 36.1043-4
463n56
col. 19.17-22
757
col. 44.1261-2
463n56
 Stoic. Hist. ( PHerc.  1018)
col. 44.1266-7
463n56
col. 19
59n23
(ed. Henrichs 1974)
col. 48
61n34
col. 1-10.8
461
col. 51-2
61n34
col. 2.28-3.8
471n104
col. 51.4
788n19
col. 4.12-8.13
462
col. 60
62n36
col. 5.8-11
760
col. 61.2-6
777n7
col. 8.28-33
462n55
col. 61.3-7
775
Fr. 16
470n95
col. 63-8
61n34
Fr. 19
469n93
col. 77.1-3
62n36
 Rhet.  i ( Pherc.  1427)
col. 6.10-18
66
P h i l o p o n u s
 Sign. ( PHec.  1065)
 Aet. Mund. 
col. 7.8-11
292
13.15
416
col. 8.22-9.8
292
 APr. 
col. 11.26-12.14
115
33.23-6
136n141
col. 11.32-7
291
35-6
152n160
col. 11.37-12.1
291
169
86n32, 87n33
col. 12.1-14
291
242.18-21
78n10
col. 12.14-31
291
244. 3-12
129n128
col. 14.2-27
292n39
245.23-33
129n128
col. 14.7
291
246.3-4
133, 134
col. 14.11-14
291
246.5-6
135n140
col. 14.17
292n42
246.10-12
129n128
col. 14.23-24
292n42
302.22
80n16
col. 15.37-8
292n42
 Cat. 
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
 Index locorum
897
7.20
74n50
581c-588a
648n20
72
160n185
583c-584a
652
608e-609a
746n21
P l a t o
 Soph. 
 Apol. 
261-2
40 0
25d-26a
687n40
 Symp. 
29e
688
205a-d
618n3
30ab
688-9
 Tht. 
38a
360
157e-158e
266
 Crat. 
176a
467
397c-d
470n99
184-6
328
413a
479
 Tim. 
 Euthd. 
22d-e
437
278-82
694n53
27d6-28a1
410n149
 Grg. 
29d
452n3
467-8
694n53
29e-30b
539
499e
618n3
32c-33b
460n41
521d
627n21
34b
561
 Leg. 
39d
439
677a
437
41a-b
467
682b-c
437
46c-e
485, 492n37
873c-d
735n178
58a-c
443n70
885b
454
75a-c
539
896-9
386
75c
467n81
 Meno. 
77b
563n9
75b
399n115
80b-c
443n70
75d-76a
593n10
77b-78b
687
[ P l a t o ]
80a-b
325
 Epin. 
87-9
694n53
980a-988e
461n48
 Parm. 
983a
596
138d-e
356
146b
404n131
P l u t a r c h u s
 Phd. 
 Alex. Virt. 
61c-62c
735n178
328a
323n5
74a-c
381n71
329a-f
768
99b
485n11
 Am. Prol. 
 Phdr. 
495c
603
245-6
386
 An. Procr. 
245c-6a
498
1015c
423
247a
452n3
 An Recte
 Phlb. 
1128a-1129b
669, 775
42c-44a
652
 Col. 
53c-55a, 65a-67b
648n20
1109c-10d
271n16
 Prt. 
1110c-d
271
313
695n58
1111b
756
322ab
752n35
1115b
416n7
 Rep. 
1117a
665
335b-d
694n52
1117c-d
464
358e-360e
754
1118d
546
379a
452
1120b
257n95
416b-c
758
1120b-f
251n77
464d-e
757
1120c
332n26
558d-559c
658n45
1120c-1121c
633n30
559a11-b1
658n46
1120d
258
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
898
 Index locorum
P l u t a r c h u s   ( cont.)
698a-d
602
1121c
285
732f
597
1121d-e
285
10 06c
596
1121e-1122a
329
 Soll. 
1121e-1122f
332n26
961a
576
1122b-d
338
 Stoic Rep. 
1122e
655
1033b-c
740
1124d
749, 755
1033c-e
762
 Comm.Not
1033d
741n8
1059d-e
167
1034b
770
1059e
351n73
1034c
718
1060c
692n50
1034d
718
1062b
715n128
1034e
68n24, 73
1063a-b
163
1034e-f
68n27
1063d
736n182
1035a-b
469, xiv
1065a
467n79
1035c
675, 691n45, 711n115, 
1065d
467n79
766
1069e
675, 686
1035c-d
720n140
1071b-c
686n36
1036e
76n60
1075a-e
468n88
1036f
76
1075d
468
1037b
66n8
1076a
716
1037d
724
1076b
725
1037f
740n5, 766
1077c
404
1038b
763
1077c-e
406n135
1038b-c
680
1077e
468
1038f
716
1078b-e
390
1039a
716
1078e-1079b
391
1039d
709n108
1079b-c
392
1040a-1041e
741n8
1079e
393
1041e
689
1080e
375, 393, 401
1042c-d
736n182
1081e
395n105
1043a
741n8, 762n48
1081f
395
1043b-e
762n48
1083a-1084a
403, 406, 407n139, 
1043c-d
706
408n141
1043e
59n23
1084c-1084d
398
1044b
625n18
1084f-1085a
575
1044b-e
759n45
1086f
768
1044c-d
460n42
 Def Or. 
1044d
467
420b
464
1045f-1046a
75
425d
420
1046a
67
 Fac. Lun. 
1046e-f
719
922f-923a
596
1047c
602n26
 Non Posse
1047c-e
104, 597
1087b
655
1048a
693
1087e
655
1048e
722, 724
1089d
656, 665
1049a-b
467n82
1101c
464
1050e
467
1102c-d
464n63
1050e-f
467n79
1106a-1107c
663
1051a-b
467n79
 Praec. Ger. Reip. 
1051c
467
820d
457n32
1051d-e
465
 Quaest. Conv. 
1051e
471n102
615a
89
1051e-f
465
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
 Index locorum
899
1052a
468
v i .5.4-6.12
747
1052b
461
v i .9.10
746
1052c
439n60, 468
v i .9.10-14
745n18
1052c-d
561n3
v i .10.2
746
1052d
460
v i .10.3
746
1052f
563
v i .10.6 -11
748
1053b
468, 468n86
v i .10.14
748
1053f-1054b
389
v i .18
748
1054b
421
v i .48.2-3
744
1054b-c
443n71
v i .48-57
745n18
1054c
397n110
v i .57.4-10
748
1054e
442
v i .57.9
746n23
1054e-f
408n141, 409
1054f
446
P o r p h y r i u s
1055d-f
118, 118n104
 Abst. 
1055e-f
87n33
i .10-11
750
1056b
488n27
i i i .19
763
1056b-c
530
 In. Ptol. Harm. 
1056f
336
3.1-12
21n77
1057a
332n26
5.11-13
21n77
 Tranq. An. 
25.4-6
21n77
465f
755n40
 Marc. 
474c
665
17
455n20
 Virt. Mor. 
27-32
17n60
440e
19
31
646
440f-441a
718
 ap.  Simpl.  Cat. 
408
441a-b
718
48.11-16
441b
716n130
 Vita Plotini
441c
715, 716
3.43
794
446f-447a
581, 70 0n73
14.4-7
788
 Virt. Prof. 
20.49
795
75c
715
20.51
795
75c-e
160
20.25-9
794
75d-e
163
20.29-36
794
82f
726
20.36-57
794
20.63-5
795
[ P l u t a r c h u s ]
 Cons. 
P o s i d o n i u s (ed. Edelstein/Kidd)
104b
473n115
Fr. 97
442n68
104c
473n115
Fr. 142
571n27
116f
473n115
118a
473n115
P r o c l u s
 Fat. 
 Eucl. 
574d
530
43.22-3
595n14
574e
94n52
66.7-67.16
586
 Plac. 
68.20-3
585
874e
65n2, 68n21
70.22-71.5
585
76.6-77.2
585
P o l y b i u s
89.15-18
392
v i .3.1-4
748
10 0.5-19
593
v i .3.5-12
745
194.9-195.22
595
v i .4.2-5
745
199.3-20 0.3
589
v i .4.7-9.9
745n20
214.15-218.11
589
v i .4.11-13
748
279.16-280.9
589
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
900
 Index locorum
P r o c l u s   ( cont.)
75.11-13
706n96
322.4-14
590n6
77.14-15
735n179
 Remp. 
82.9
68n25
i .234.1
794
85.15
706n96
 Tim. 
85.30
694
i .227.15-17
410n149
87
694
 TP
89.9
xiii
i .2, p. 10.1-4
4n6
89.11
68n16
89.12
68n17
P y r r h o (ed. Decleva Caizzi)
89.13
68n20
Fr.53
641n47
89.17
66n5
T 61a
477n133
92.30
676n4, 683
Q
94
709n109
u i n t i l i a n u s
 Inst. 
94.2.7-8.11
709
94.2-17
710n110
i .1.4
709n107
94.4
710
i .7
9n23
94.11
710
i .10.5
157
94.15-16
732, 732n168
i .10.32
709n107
94.33
710n113
i i .7
65n4
94.37
710n113
v i i .3.5
456n22
95
709n109, 711
v i i .5.5-6
20n74
95.5
733
x .1.84
68n25
95.12
710
x i i .2.25
68n25
95.36
706n96
S e n e c a
95.39-40.57
729n161
 Ben. 
95.47-50
711n115
i v .27
724
97.15
674n71
i v .34
703n88, 737
108.23
785
i v .35
737n185
113.10
717
 De Ira
113.23
572
i .16.7
709n108, 704
116.1
723
i i .18
712n120, 713n121
116.5
727n154
i i i .15
735n179
117.13
40 0n119
 De Otio
120
689
3.2
755n40
120.3
707n99
 Ep. 
120.10-11
716
2.23-4
384
121
679
11.8
674n71
121.10
680
23.9
786
124.13
708
25.4-6
674n71
124.14
688n43
25.5
674
138.21-9
67n14
28.9
674n71
139.17
65n3, 66n10
31.8
715
 Prov. 
33.4
57, 673n67
6.7
735n179
45.10
158
 Tranq. An. 
45.11
496n47, 707
13.2-3
703n88
58
778
58.15
410n150
S e x t u s  E m p i r i c u s
63-64
710
 M
64.2
792
i .3
648n22
65.2
384
i .60
794
65.3-4
384
i .72
794
65.4
479
i .86
112
75.8
727n156
i .235
776, 788
76.10
717
i .258
602n28
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
 Index locorum
901
i .305
477n133
v i i .164
347n62
i .309-10
83
v i i .166
347n63
i i .6 -7
65
v i i .166 -75
346n59
i i .223
127
v i i .169
346n60
i i .431
150
v i i .171
337n38
i i i .2
250, 591
v i i .173-5
347, 347n63
i i i .7-17
591n7
v i i .175
350n72
i i i .10
592n9
v i i .176
349
i i i .12
592n9
v i i .176 -89
348n65
i i i .18
591n8, 594n13
v i i .181
348n66
i i i .19-91
591n
v i i .182-4
293n43
i i i .21
594n13
v i i .184
348n66
i i i .28
595
v i i .187-8
349n67
i i i .40-2
591
v i i .190-20 0
251n77
i i i .51-6
592
v i i .191
253, 256, 256n90
i i i .57-9
593n11
v i i .191-2
257n93
i i i .65
594n13
v i i .192
253
i i i .92
591n8
v i i .194
256
i i i .93
594
v i i .196 -7
254
i i i .94-107
591n8
v i i .199
255
i i i .98
594
v i i .203
272n18
i i i .108-116
593
v i i .203-10
267
i v .353-63
269n13
v i i .207-9
269n13
v .50
592n9
v i i .212-13
283
v .88-94
599n20
v i i .213
286, 288
v .103-5
598n19
v i i .215
284
v i i .1-19
xiv
v i i .216
272
v i i .11
68n17, 251n78
v i i .227-60
295n1
v i i .12
68n20
v i i .228-31
405
v i i .13
162
v i i .234
564n11
v i i .15
68n16
v i i .242-52
347n61
v i i .17-19
xiv
v i i .244-5
93n45
v i i .22
261
v i i .29-30
347n63
v i i .247
343n49
v i i .30
249n68
v i i .248
302n9, 308
v i i .38-44
721
v i i .249
302, 310
v i i .49
235n18
v i i .249-52
305, 306
v i i .88
237n26, 240
v i i .250
307, 308
v i i .97
98
v i i .251
307, 308
v i i .110
235n18
v i i .252
303n10, 309, 344n54
v i i .135
239n31
v i i .253
343n51
v i i .136 -7
238
v i i .257
343n51
v i i .139
238
v i i .259
316
v i i .150-1
297n2
v i i .267
381
v i i .150-8
295n1, 325n7, 327n12
v i i .369
239n31
v i i .152
303n10
v i i .396
361n16
v i i .153
17, 299, 328, 697n64
v i i .401-11
341n46, 342n47
v i i .154
326, 326n10, 328, 
v i i .401-35
295n1
341n46
v i i .402
302
v i i .155
326
v i i .403
313, 342
v i i .156 -7
326
v i i .404-5
342
v i i .158
333, 348n66
v i i .405
343n50
v i i .159
339
v i i .406
311
v i i .159-84
336n36
v i i .408
344
v i i .160-5
339
v i i .409-10
344n53
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
902
 Index locorum
S e x t u s   E m p i r i c u s   ( cont.)
v i i i .255
96
v i i .410
163, 344
v i i i .263
383
v i i .415-21
163, 345n57
v i i i .281
115, 135, 137
v i i .416
174, 720
v i i i .282
115
v i i .416 -17
172
v i i i .302
122
v i i .435-8
347n63
v i i i .305
105n73
v i i i .6
239n31
v i i i .308
105n73
v i i i .8-9
280
v i i i .313
156n171
v i i i .9
267, 268
v i i i .326
235n18
v i i i .10
95
v i i i .333
359
v i i i .56
239n31
v i i i .336
121
v i i i .73
93, 94
v i i i .369
594n13
v i i i .74
93
v i i i .369-78
591n7
v i i i .85-6
303
v i i i .373
592n9
v i i i .89
101
v i i i .415
123
v i i i .93
96
v i i i .418
126, 126n121
v i i i .93-4
103
v i i i .423
105n73
v i i i .95
96, 136
v i i i .428
23n86
v i i i .96
97n56, 98
v i i i .429
125n119
v i i i .96 -10 0
97
v i i i .429-34
123
v i i i .97
10 0
v i i i .434
104, 109, 133, 134
v i i i .98
101
v i i i .441-2
123n117
v i i i .103
101
v i i i .443
72n41
v i i i .103-7
97n56
v i i i .466
115, 137
v i i i .108
86, 96, 97n56, 
i x .4
477n132
136
i x .14-48
453
v i i i .110-12
84
i x .18
469n93
v i i i .113-17
84, 85
i x .19
470
v i i i .125
106
i x .20-2
470
v i i i .128
106
i x .24
470
v i i i .141-298
612
i x .43
470
v i i i .191
609
i x .43-7
473n114
v i i i .20 0
611
i x .49-194
453
v i i i .214
286
i x .54
469n94
v i i i .215-16
612
i x .75-6
384, 386
v i i i .224
70n34, 127
i x .85
459
v i i i .225
128
i x .88
459
v i i i .226
128
i x .92-5
459n38
v i i i .227
129, 130
i x .101
459
v i i i .230
104n71
i x .104
458
v i i i .230-2
135
i x .104-10
676n4
v i i i .230-8
140, 146
i x .108-10
459
v i i i .231
138, 140
i x .133
457, 722n148
v i i i .232
104n71
i x .134
457
v i i i .232-3
141, 142
i x .138-43
475
v i i i .234
612
i x .138-90
475
v i i i .234-6
135, 138
i x .139-47
475
v i i i .235
137
i x .140
475n122
v i i i .235-7
130, 141
i x .144
469n92
v i i i .236
129n127, 131n130
i x .152-77
476
v i i i .237
129n127, 137
i x .162
476
v i i i .246
105n73, 112n93
i x .163-4
476
v i i i .252
105n73
i x .165-6
476
v i i i .254
105n73
i x .169
476
v i i i .254-5
108n73
i x .171
476
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
 Index locorum
903
i x .178
456n26
x i .187
66n6
i x .181
475n122
x i .190
758
i x .182
476
x i .192
759n45
i x .182-3
476
 PH
i x .190
475n122, 476
i .3
229n1, 233n11
i x .193
469n92
i .7
241n38
i x .207
610
i .16
487
i x .210
610
i .16 -17
233n13
i x .211
484
i .17
234
i x .227-36
610
i .21-4
347n63
i x .237-48
611
i .65
11
i x .242-3
509
i .69
109, 133, 134
i x .332
402
i .88-9
608
i x .336
404n131
i .94
66n6
i x .366
479
i .141-4
638n44
i x .367-436
591n8
i .160
759
i x .412-13
593n11
i .168
591
i x .364
480
i .173-4
591n7
x .2
367
i .181
507n62
x .3
396, 397n110
i .221-5
328n15
x .4
396n109
i .226 -31
336n36
x .85
361
i .226 -35
233n11
x .85-101
610
i .227-9
348n65
x .86
358, 359, 359n11, 
i .228
349
361n17, 362n20
i .230
337n38
x .87
361
i .232
324, 325, 337n38
x .93
362n20
i .233
325, 332
x .95
358
i .234
250n72, 324n6
x .97-101
359
i .236 -41
609
x .10 0
361
i .238-240
606
x .10 0-1
359n13
i i .3
138
x .108-10
362n20
i i .4
302n9
x .111
361
i i .12-13
xiv
x .112
361
i i .18
231
x .113-17
361
i i .45
608
x .119-20
357
i i .81
408
x .123-30
392
i i .97-133
612
x .139-42
392
i i .101
109n85
x .142-3
357n8
i i .104
93n46, 109n85
x .143
359n11
i i .105
105n73
x .218
395
i i .106
105n73, 109n85
x .219-27
370n39, 380
i i .110
84
x .240
381
i i .110-11
85
x .347
361n19
i i .111
86, 107
x i .1
477n133
i i .112
107n79
x i .8-11
112, 113, 411
i i .136
122
x i .20
249n65, 476
i i .137
123
x i .22
689, 689n44, 715, 
i i .141
105n73, 156n171
716n131
i i .146 -51
123
x i .22-6
688
i i .150
104, 133, 134
x i .64-7
696n61
i i .156
148
x i .65
696
i i .157
148
x i .165
249n64
i i .191
110n87
x i .169
644
i i .194
148
x i .183
302n8
i i .214
66n10
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
904
 Index locorum
S e x t u s   E m p i r i c u s   ( cont.)
159.32
780n11
i i .229
157
165.32-166.29
408n141
i i .232
157
195
86, 87n33
i i .242
361n19
195-6
86n32
i i .245
610
209.11
780
i i .249
123
214.24-37
402
i i .253
720
350.15-16
399
i i .253-4
174
396.19-21
98
i i .292
130
 de An. 
i i i .1
481
217.36-218.2
404
i i i .2
249n64
 Phys. 
i i i .14
479, 498
20
469n92
i i i .15
485
20.17
416
i i i .17-18
50 0
23.11-2
469n92
i i i .25-30
487n21, 497
247.33-48.18
25n97
i i i .38
479
256.32-57.4
25n97
i i i .52
121
604.5-11
415n3
i i i .71
361n19
639.13-22
415
i i i .124
396n109
671.1
445
i i i .20 0
759
934.23-30
378
i i i .20 0-1
539
934.24
422n23
i i i .205-6
539
1121.5
427n36
i i i .245
758
1236.1-10
417n11
i i i .246
759n45
130 0
105n73
 SSR
⌺Ammon.  Apr. 
i i   f 8-10
356n4
x i .1-3
156n173
i i   f 8-17
356n3
x i .3-4
135
i v   a 96
634n33
x i .13-36
135
i v   a 173
654
i v   b 5
654
⌺
i v   g 4
635
A r i s t .  Top. 
i v   h 14-24
636n41
294b23-9
136n141
v   h 44
631
v   h 84
631
⌺Hes.  Theog. 
30.6-8 Greg. 
462n53
S t o b a e u s
 Ecl. (i-ii) /  Flor. (iii-iv)
⌺DThrax
i .1.12
13, 466
518-19
99
i .5.15
465
i .136.21-137.6
411
S i m p l i c i u s
i .138.14-22
611
 Cael. 
i .142.2-6
392n98, 394, 401
237.2-4
143, 144
i .156.15
473n115
264.25-266.3
597
i .161
442n68
289.2-4
454
i .179.3
404n130
552.31-553.4
79
i i .1.17
21
 Cat. 
i i .1.24
68n20
18.26-19.7
407n138
i i .2.12
68n19, 68n20
18.28
780n11
i i .2.14
68n20
48.11-16
408
i i .2.18
68n20
62.25-7
407n138, 775, 780n11
i i .2.20
351n73
63.23
793n26
i i .2.22
68n20
105.7-20
160n185, 160n186
i i .7.5
295n1
105.9-16
410n151
i i .7.42
23
128.5-8
407n138, 780n11
i i .25.44
68n20
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
 Index locorum
905
i i .42.7-45.6
788
i i .95.24
723n149
i i .57.18-58.4
691n45
i i .96.10-12
766
i i .57.20-58.4
691n46
i i .97.3
730
i i .59.4-60.8
720
i i .97.15-98.6
40 0n121
i i .59.6
763
i i .99.3-106.20
717n135
i i .59.11-60.5
724
i i .10 0.13
724
i i .60.9-62.6
719
i i .102.4-6
766
i i .60.9-11
717-18
i i .106.13
724
i i .63.6
716n130
i i .106.21-6
725
i i .63.6 -25
719
i i .107.8
724
i i .63.8
718
i i .108.15-18
760
i i .63.25
719n138
i i .109.10-110.8
762n48
i i .63.26 -7
719
i i .110.9
735
i i .65.1-2
561
i i .113.21-3
725
i i .65.7
717n135
i i .114.16
720
i i .65.8
707n10 0
i i .115.5-9
703n88, 737
i i .65.12-14
717
i i i .17.22
659
i i .67.1
720
i v .6.22
742n9
i i .67.2
724
i v .7.61-2
742n9
i i .67.13-16
720
i v .7.63
742n9
i i .69.16 -70.7
688
i v .7.64
742n9
i i .72.19-25
695n59
i v .27.23
681n18
i i .73.14
695n60
i v .39.22
698
i i .73.19-74.3
578
i i .75.7-8
763
S t r a b o
i i .75.11-76.15
685
i .15
323n3
i i .77.16 -17
684
x i i i .1.54
773, 774
i i .77.21
685
x i v .1.64
244n47
i i .79.16 -17
692n49
x i v .2.24
70n31, 785
i i .79.20-82.19
693n51
x i v .5.14
780
i i .80.8-9
692
i i .80.9-13
692n49
S t r a t o (ed. Wehrli)
i i .81.3-4
695
Fr. 32-7
416n7
i i .81.19-82.4
695n58
Fr. 65a
416n6
i i .82.11-83.9
695n59
Fr. 84
417
i i .85.13-15
333n27
i i .85.14
728
 SVF
i i .85.14-15
728n160
i .65
410n146
i i .85.15-17
697n66
i .73
706n95
i i .85.18-20
333, 698n68
i .135
388n91
i i .86.17-18
698
i .135-8
440
i i .86.17-87.6
579n40
i .140
440
i i .86.19
580
i .207
723
i i .87.5-6
580n42
i .352-7
711n114
i i .88.2-6
574, 579n41
i .370
706n95
i i .88.8-10
580
i i .35
706n95
i i .88.12-21
70 0n74
i i .54
340n42
i i .89.2-3
701n81
i i .76 -98
402n125
i i .89.6 -9
702n83
i i .90-5
716
i i .90.7-18
701
i i .93
706n95
i i .90.19-91.9
70 0
i i .95
706n95
i i .93.14
731n163
i i .166 -71
395n106
i i .93.14-15
333
i i .202
527n21
i i .93.14-16
698n68
i i .299-328
384n80
i i .94.8-20
762
i i .329-35
410n146
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008
906
 Index locorum
S t r a t o (ed. Wehrli) ( cont.)
T e r t u l l i a n u s
i i .357-68
383n76
 An. 
i i .366 -8
565n15
10.4
60 0n21, 610n42
i i .369-404
406n137
25.5
60 0n21
i i .412-62
387n86
i i .458
564
T h e m i s t i u s
i i .463-91
390n95
 Or. 
i i .501-21
395n106
x x x i v .5
68n17
i i .507
399n115
 Phys. 
i i .526
504
130.12
445
i i .528
527n21
184.9
422n23
i i .714
564
i i .716
564
i i .786 -7
388n91
T h e o  o f S m y r n a
i i .913-14
527n21
82.22-83.7
595n14
i i .915
527
107.15-24
595n14
i i .916
527
i i .917
527
T h e o p h r a s t u s
i i .917-18
527n21
Fr. (ed Fortenbaugh  et al)
i i .920
527
229
237
i i .923-4
527n21
230
385
i i .926
527
462-3
620n6
i i .965-71
536n39
465
620n6
i i .998
534
495-9
620n6
i i .1027
504
 Metaph. 
i i .1077
504
5b19-26
417
i i .1152
504
10a10-19
416
i i .1163
504
10a21-b25
415n4
i i i .133-5
695n59
i i i .145
692n48
T i m o n (ed. Lloyd-Jones/Parsons)
i i i .152
694n54
Fr. 58
240n35
i i i .214
705n93, 706n95
i i i .228-36
708n106
V a r r o
i i i .229
706n97, 709n107
 apud  Cassiod. 
65n4
i i i .245-52
716
 Inst.  ii.2
i i i .278
706n95
 Sat. 
i i i .447-8
723
Fr 291
72n41
i i i .450-3
723
i i i .510
725, 727n157, 
X e n o c r a t e s (ed. Isnardi Parente)
729n162
Fr. 123-51 Isnardi
356n2
i i i .524-43
724
i i i .545
722n147
X e n o p h o n
i i i .593-60 0
722
 Mem. 
i i i .594-5
722n145
i .1.4
454
i i i .597
722
i .1.16
627n21
i i i .668
722n148
i .4
682n20
i i i .764-8
735n180
i .4.5-6
460
i i i .768
736
i .4.8
459n38
i i i Antip. 56
686n34
i i .1.1
622
i i i Diog. Bab. 27-39 602n27
i i .1.1-34
633
i i .1.21-34
647n17
T a t i a n u s
i v .6.8
694n53
 Adv. Graec. 
 Symp. 
5
468
4.34-44
625
Cambridge Histories Online © Cambridge University Press, 2008









Document Outline

00
stoici e facoltà
Epistemologia
enargheia in Epicuro
due ati in Epicuro
phantasia-sunkatathesis Stoici
enargheia
01
02
03
04
05
06
07
08
09
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28








Table of Contents

00
stoici e facoltà
Epistemologia
enargheia in Epicuro
due ati in Epicuro
phantasia-sunkatathesis Stoici
enargheia
01
02
03
04
05
06
07
08
09
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28




